

14. Neuropharmacology. 2019 Nov 1;158:107725. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2019.107725. 
Epub 2019 Jul 25.

Activation of mGlu2/3 receptors, a novel therapeutic approach to alleviate
dyskinesia and psychosis in experimental parkinsonism.

Frouni I(1), Hamadjida A(2), Kwan C(2), Bédard D(3), Nafade V(3), Gaudette F(4), 
Nuara SG(5), Gourdon JC(5), Beaudry F(6), Huot P(7).

Author information: 
(1)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute,
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Plateforme de Pharmacocinétique, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de 
l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(6)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(7)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, McGill University Health Centre,
Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Selective blockade of serotonin 2A (5-HT2A) receptors is a promising strategy to 
reduce L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and has shown
efficacy in a Phase III clinical trial for dopaminergic psychosis in Parkinson's 
disease (PD). However, pre-clinical and clinical evidence suggest that, while
this approach may be effective and well tolerated, there might be a ceiling
beyond which no further therapeutic benefit might be achieved. There is mounting 
evidence that 5-HT2A receptors form a functional hetero-complex with metabotropic
glutamate 2 (mGlu2) receptors, with antagonism of 5-HT2A receptors and activation
of mGlu2 receptors producing similar effects on the Gi/Gq signalling ratio at the
intra-cellular level. Based on this interaction between 5-HT2A and mGlu2
receptors, we hypothesised that activation of mGlu2 receptors would alleviate
dyskinesia and psychosis in PD. LY-354,740 is a selective mGlu2/3 orthosteric
agonist that was previously tested in the clinic. In experiments conducted in the
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat and the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset, we found
that mGlu2/3 activation with LY-354,740 significantly reduced the expression of
dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours, while simultaneously enhancing l-DOPA
therapeutic benefit. Moreover, mGlu2/3 activation with LY-354,740 attenuated the 
development of dyskinesia. These data indicate that activation of mGlu2/3
receptors is a therapeutic strategy that may provide relief for both motor
and-non-motor treatment-related complications in PD.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2019.107725 
PMID: 31351976  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

