

29. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Jul;26(1):171-7.

Striatal leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 mRNA is increased in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with L-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester-induced
dyskinesia.

Hurley MJ(1), Patel PH, Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences Research
Division, School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, King's College, London SE1
1UL, UK. michael.j.hurley@kcl.ac.uk

The level of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (Lrrk2) mRNA expression was measured by
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in anterior striatum from normal 
and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus) that had L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester
(L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia. The level of striatal Lrrk2 mRNA was increased in
MPTP-treated common marmosets that had L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia compared with
normal animals that did not receive l-DOPA. Marmosets that exhibited higher
levels of dyskinesia had the greatest increase in striatal Lrrk2 mRNA. Lrrk2 mRNA
expression was also measured in human striatum and substantia nigra from control 
subjects and patients dying with Parkinson's disease. In contrast to marmoset
tissue, no alteration in Lrrk2 mRNA expression was found in parkinsonian human
brain. However, the brain was from patients who had an overall low level of
dyskinesia. The correlation between striatal Lrrk2 mRNA levels in MPTP-treated
common marmoset striatum and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia indicates that LRRK2 may
have a role in the molecular alterations that cause L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05638.x 
PMID: 17614947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

