

36. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2004 Jul-Aug;27(4):171-7.

Levetiracetam Interferes With the L-dopa priming process in MPTP-lesioned
drug-naive marmosets.

Hill MP(1), Brotchie JM, Crossman AR, Bezard E, Michel A, Grim√©e R, Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience, Ltd., Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Levetiracetam (LEV; Keppra, UCB Pharma) has been shown to reduce
established l-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa)-induced dyskinesia. This study 
investigated whether LEV can modify induction of dyskinesia by l-dopa or the
process of priming.
METHODS: Drug-naive MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) -lesioned
marmosets were treated for 21 days with l-dopa/LEV or l-dopa alone. Subsequently,
the animals were left untreated for 1 week and then both groups were challenged
with a single dose of l-dopa alone on day 29. Behavior was assessed by automated 
activity counts and by post hoc analysis of videotapes using validated rating
scales.
RESULTS: LEV had no significant effect on the appearance of dyskinesia when
administered de novo in combination with l-dopa. However, after a week of drug
holiday, the 2 groups exhibited a different response to an acute l-dopa
challenge. Thus, animals previously treated with l-dopa alone exhibited a similar
level of dyskinesia to that seen on day 21 of the repeated treatment phase of the
study. However, animals previously treated with l-dopa/LEV demonstrated
significantly reduced dyskinesia compared with day 21 of the repeated treatment
phase of the study.
CONCLUSIONS: LEV does not modify the onset of dyskinesia following de novo
treatment with l-dopa. However, concomitant treatment with l-dopa/LEV reduces the
level of dyskinesia induced by l-dopa following a drug holiday. Thus, prior
treatment with LEV appears to modify the mechanisms responsible for the
maintenance of l-dopa-induced dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1097/01.wnf.0000135478.70905.3d 
PMID: 15319703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

