

37. Exp Neurol. 2004 Aug;188(2):471-9.

The NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist CP-101,606 exacerbates L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia and provides mild potentiation of anti-parkinsonian effects of L-DOPA 
in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.

Nash JE(1), Ravenscroft P, McGuire S, Crossman AR, Menniti FS, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, ON, M5T 2S8 Canada.
jnash@uhnres.utoronto.ca

In Parkinson's disease (PD), degeneration of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal
pathway leads to enhanced transmission at NMDA receptors containing NR2B
subunits. Previous studies have shown that some, but not all, NR2B-containing
NMDA receptor antagonists alleviate parkinsonian symptoms in animal models of PD.
Furthermore, enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated transmission underlies the
generation of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). The subunit content of NMDA
receptors responsible for LID is not clear. Here, we assess the actions of the
NMDA antagonist CP-101,606 in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. CP-101,606 is selective
for NMDA receptors containing NR2B subunits, with higher affinity for NR1/NR2B
complexes compared to ternary NR1/NR2A/NR2B complexes. CP-101,606 had no
significant effect on parkinsonian symptoms when administered as monotherapy over
a range of doses (0.1-10 mg/kg). CP-101,606 provided a modest potentiation of the
anti-parkinsonian actions of L-DOPA (8 mg/kg), although, at doses of 1 and 3
mg/kg, CP-101,606 exacerbated LID. Results of this study provide further evidence
of differences in the anti-parkinsonian activity and effects on LID of the NR2B
subunit selective NMDA receptor antagonists. These distinctions may reflect
disparities in action on NR1/NR2B as opposed to NR1/NR2A/NR2B receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.05.004 
PMID: 15246846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

