

40. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2004 Jun;309(3):921-35. Epub 2004 Feb 20.

S32504, a novel naphtoxazine agonist at dopamine D3/D2 receptors: II. Actions in 
rodent, primate, and cellular models of antiparkinsonian activity in comparison
to ropinirole.

Millan MJ(1), Di Cara B, Hill M, Jackson M, Joyce JN, Brotchie J, McGuire S,
Crossman A, Smith L, Jenner P, Gobert A, Peglion JL, Brocco M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Recherches Servier, Centre de Recherches de Croissy,
Psychopharmacology Department, Paris, France. mark.millan@fr.netgrs.com

These studies evaluated the potential antiparkinsonian properties of the novel
dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptor agonist S32504 [(+)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,
10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine] in comparison
with those of the clinically employed agonist ropinirole. In rats with a
unilateral, 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra, S32504 (0.0025-0.04
mg/kg, s.c.) more potently elicited contralateral rotation than S32601
[(-)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,
10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth-[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine (its less active
enantiomer)], ropinirole, and l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA). Rotation
elicited by S32504 was blocked by the D(2)/D(3) receptor antagonists haloperidol 
and raclopride and by the D(2) antagonist L741,626
[4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)piperidin-4-ol], but not by the D(3)
antagonist S33084
[(3aR,9bS)-N-[4-(8-cyano-1,3a,4,9b-tetrahydro-3H-benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyrrole-2-yl)-
butyl]-(4-phenyl)benzamide]. As assessed by dialysis in both lesioned and
nonlesioned animals, S32504 (0.04-2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) reduced striatal levels of
acetylcholine. This effect was blocked by raclopride, haloperidol, and L741,626
but not S33084. In rats treated with reserpine, hypolocomotion was reversed by
S32504 and, less potently, by ropinirole. In "unprimed" marmosets treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, both s.c. (0.01-0.04 mg/kg) and
p.o. (0.04-1.25 mg/kg) administration of S32504 dose-dependently and rapidly
(within 10 min) increased locomotor activity and reduced disability. Furthermore,
S32504 dose-dependently reversed bradykinesia and improved posture in
"L-DOPA-primed" animals, whereas eliciting less pronounced dyskinesia than
l-DOPA. Finally, in terminally differentiated SH-SY5Y cells presenting a
dopaminergic phenotype, S32504, but not S32601, abrogated the neurotoxic effects 
of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, an action inhibited by raclopride and S33084 but 
not L741,626. Ropinirole was weakly neuroprotective in this model. In conclusion,
S32504 displays potent and stereospecific activity in rodent, primate, and
cellular models of antiparkinsonian properties. Although activation of D(2)
receptors is crucial to the motor actions of S32504, engagement of D(3) receptors
contributes to its neuroprotective properties.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.103.062414 
PMID: 14978195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

