

43. Mov Disord. 2002 Nov;17(6):1180-7.

Stimulation of cannabinoid receptors reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the
MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Fox SH(1), Henry B, Hill M, Crossman A, Brotchie J.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, Division of Neuroscience, School of
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester, United
Kingdom. shfox@hotmail.com

Long-term treatment with levodopa in Parkinson's disease results in the
development of motor fluctuations, including reduced duration of antiparkinsonian
action and involuntary movements, i.e., levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Cannabinoid 
receptors are concentrated in the basal ganglia, and stimulation of cannabinoid
receptors can increase gamma-aminobutyric acid transmission in the lateral
segment of globus pallidus and reduce glutamate release in the striatum. We thus 
tested the hypothesis that the cannabinoid receptor agonist nabilone (0.01, 0.03,
and 0.10 mg/kg) would alleviate levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) -lesioned
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Coadministration of nabilone (0.1 mg/kg)
with levodopa was associated with significantly less total dyskinesia (dyskinesia
score, 12; range, 6-17; primate dyskinesia rating scale) than levodopa alone (22;
range, 14-23; P < 0.05). This effect was more marked during the onset period
(0-20 minutes post levodopa). There was no reduction in the antiparkinsonian
action of levodopa. Furthermore, the intermediate dose of nabilone used (0.03
mg/kg) increased the duration of antiparkinsonian action of levodopa by 76%.
Thus, cannabinoid receptor agonists may be useful in the treatment of motor
complications in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10289 
PMID: 12465055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

