

46. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 Dec;14(11):1827-32.

Increased cannabinoid CB1 receptor binding and activation of GTP-binding proteins
in the basal ganglia of patients with Parkinson's syndrome and of MPTP-treated
marmosets.

Lastres-Becker I(1), Cebeira M, de Ceballos ML, Zeng BY, Jenner P, Ramos JA,
Fern√°ndez-Ruiz JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine,
Complutense University, 28040 Madrid, Spain.

Recent evidence obtained in rat models of Parkinson's disease showed that the
density of cannabinoid CB1 receptors and their endogenous ligands increase in
basal ganglia. However, no data exists from post-mortem brain of humans affected 
by Parkinson's disease or from primate models of the disorder. In the present
study, we examined CB1 receptor binding and the magnitude of the stimulation by
WIN55,212-2, a specific CB1 receptor agonist, of [35S]GTPgammaS binding to
membrane fractions from the basal ganglia of patients affected by Parkinson's
disease. In Parkinson's disease, WIN55,212-2-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in
the caudate nucleus, putamen, lateral globus pallidus and substantia nigra was
increased, thus indicating a more effective activation of GTP-binding
protein-coupled signalling mechanisms via CB1 receptors. This was accompanied by 
an increase in CB1 receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and the putamen,
although no changes were observed in the lateral globus pallidus and the
substantia nigra. Because Parkinson's disease patients had been chronically
treated with l-DOPA, brains were studied from normal common marmosets and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated animals with and
without chronic L-DOPA treatment. MPTP-lesioned marmosets had increased CB1
receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and the putamen compared to control
marmosets, as well as increased stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding by
WIN55,212-2. However, following l-DOPA treatment these parameters returned
towards control values. The results indicate that a nigro-striatal lesion is
associated with an increase in CB1 receptors in the basal ganglia in humans and
nonhuman primates and that this increase could be reversed by chronic l-DOPA
therapy. The data suggest that CB1 receptor blockade might be useful as an
adjuvant for the treatment of parkinsonian motor symptoms.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01812.x 
PMID: 11860478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

