

6. Neuropharmacology. 2021 Jan;182:108386. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.108386.
Epub 2020 Nov 3.

Selective blockade of the 5-HT3 receptor acutely alleviates dyskinesia and
psychosis in the parkinsonian marmoset.

Kwan C(1), Nuara SG(2), Bédard D(1), Gaudette F(3), Gourdon JC(2), Beaudry F(4), 
Huot P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Plateforme de Pharmacocinétique, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de 
l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department
of Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

In Parkinson's disease (PD), management of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine
(l-DOPA)-related complications, such as l-DOPA induced dyskinesia and psychosis, 
remains inadequate, which poses a significant burden on the quality of life of
patients. We have shown, in the hemi-parkinsonian rat model of PD, that the
selective serotonin type 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists ondansetron and
granisetron decreased the severity of established dyskinesia, and ondansetron
even attenuated the development of dyskinesia. Here, we seek to confirm these
favourable data on dyskinesia and to explore the effect of ondansetron on the
severity of psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) in the gold standard model of PD,
the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned non-human
primate. We first determined the pharmacokinetic profile of ondansetron in the
marmoset. Subsequently, six MPTP-lesioned marmosets were administered l-DOPA
chronically until they exhibited stable and reproducible dyskinesia and PLBs upon
each administration of l-DOPA. On behavioural assessment days, ondansetron (0.01,
0.1 and 1 mg/kg) or vehicle was administered in conjunction with l-DOPA, and the 
severity of dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonism was evaluated. Ondansetron
0.1 mg/kg alleviated global dyskinesia severity by 73% (P < 0.0001) and decreased
duration of on-time with disabling dyskinesia by 88% (P = 0.0491). Ondansetron
0.1 mg/kg reduced the severity of global PLBs by 80% (P < 0.0001) and suppressed 
on-time with disabling PLBs (P = 0.0213). Ondansetron enhanced the
anti-parkinsonian action of l-DOPA, reducing global parkinsonism by 53% compared 
to l-DOPA (P = 0.0004). These results suggest that selective blockade of the
5-HT3 receptor with ondansetron may be an effective approach to alleviate
l-DOPA-related complications.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.108386 
PMID: 33152452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

