
1. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2021 Dec;394(12):2381-2388. doi:
10.1007/s00210-021-02162-7. Epub 2021 Sep 22.

Additive effects of mGluR2 positive allosteric modulation, mGluR2 orthosteric
stimulation and 5-HT2AR antagonism on dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours in
the MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Nuara SG(1), Gourdon JC(1), Maddaford S(2), Huot P(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Talon Pharmaceuticals, Mississauga, ON, Canada.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), 3801 University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Division of Neurology, Movement Disorder Clinic,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

PURPOSE: Antagonising serotonin (5-HT) type 2A receptors (5-HT2AR) is an
effective strategy to alleviate both dyskinesia and psychosis in Parkinson's
disease (PD). We have recently shown that activation of metabotropic glutamate 2 
receptors (mGluR2), via either orthosteric stimulation or positive allosteric
modulation, enhances the anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic effects of 5-HT2AR
antagonism. Here, we investigated if greater therapeutic efficacy would be
achieved by combining 5-HT2AR antagonism with concurrent mGluR2 orthosteric
stimulation and mGluR2 positive allosteric modulation.
METHODS: Five 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned
marmosets exhibiting dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) were
administered L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in combination with vehicle or
the 5-HT2AR antagonist EMD-281,014. EMD-281,014 was itself administered alone or 
with the mGluR2 orthosteric agonist (OA) LY-354,740, the mGluR2 positive
allosteric modulator (PAM) LY-487,379 and combination thereof, after which the
severity of dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonism was rated.
RESULTS: EMD-281,014 reduced dyskinesia and PLBs by up to 47% and 40%,
respectively (both P < 0.001). The addition of LY-354,740, LY-487,379 and
LY-354,740/LY-487,379 decreased dyskinesia by 56%, 65% and 77%, while PLBs were
diminished by 55%, 63% and 71% (all P < 0.001). All treatment combinations
provided anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic benefits significantly greater than
those conferred by EMD-281,014 alone (all P < 0.05). The combination of
EMD-281,014/LY-354,740/LY-487,379 resulted in anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic 
effects significantly greater than those conferred by EMD-281,014 with either
LY-354,740 or LY-487,379 (both P < 0.05). No deleterious effects on L-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian action were observed.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that combining 5-HT2AR antagonism with mGluR2
activation results in greater reduction of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and PD
psychosis. They also indicate that further additive effect can be achieved when a
mGluR2 OA and a mGluR2 PAM are combined with a 5-HT2AR antagonist than when a
mGluR2 OA or a mGluR2 PAM are added to a 5-HT2AR antagonist.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany,
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-021-02162-7 
PMID: 34550406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Eur J Pharmacol. 2021 Nov 5;910:174452. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2021.174452. Epub
2021 Sep 1.

Effect of the glycine transporter 1 inhibitor ALX-5407 on dyskinesia,
psychosis-like behaviours and parkinsonism in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Frouni I(1), Belliveau S(2), Maddaford S(3), Nuara SG(4), Gourdon JC(4), Huot
P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie,
Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Talon Pharmaceuticals, Mississauga, ON, Canada.
(4)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie,
Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and
Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, 
Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience, McGill University Health
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Dyskinesia and psychosis are complications encountered in advanced Parkinson's
disease (PD) following long-term therapy with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine
(L-DOPA). Disturbances in the glutamatergic system have been associated with both
dyskinesia and psychosis, making glutamatergic modulation a potential therapeutic
approach for these. Treatments thus far have sought to dampen glutamatergic
transmission, for example through blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptors or modulation of metabotropic glutamate receptors 5. In contrast,
activation of the glycine-binding site on NMDA receptors is required for their
physiological response. Here, we investigated whether indirectly enhancing
glutamatergic transmission through inhibition of glycine re-uptake would be
efficacious in diminishing both dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs)
in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common
marmoset. Six marmosets were rendered parkinsonian by MPTP injection. Following
repeated administration of L-DOPA to induce dyskinesia and PLBs, they underwent
acute challenges of the glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1) inhibitor ALX-5407 (0.01,
0.1 and 1 mg/kg) or vehicle, in combination with L-DOPA, after which the severity
of dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonian disability was evaluated. In combination
with L-DOPA, ALX-5407 0.1 and 1 mg/kg significantly reduced the severity of
dyskinesia, by 51% and 41% (both P < 0.001), when compared to vehicle. ALX-5407
0.01, 0.1 and 1 mg/kg also decreased the severity of global PLBs, by 25%, 51% and
38% (all P < 0.001), when compared to vehicle. The benefits on dyskinesia and
PLBs were achieved without compromising the therapeutic effect of L-DOPA on
parkinsonism. Our results suggest that GlyT1 inhibition may be a novel strategy
to attenuate dyskinesia and PLBs in PD, without interfering with L-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian action.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2021.174452 
PMID: 34480885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2021 Aug;394(8):1685-1692. doi:
10.1007/s00210-021-02090-6. Epub 2021 May 8.

Further characterisation of psychosis-like behaviours induced by L-DOPA in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Kwan C(1), Nuara SG(2), Gourdon JC(2), Huot P(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), 3801 University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), 3801 University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Parkinson's disease (PD) psychosis afflicts over half of patients and poses a
significant burden on quality of life. The aetiology of PD psychosis is
multifactorial and likely arises from the complex interaction between dopamine
replacement therapy and disease state. The
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmoset is a
validated model to predict the efficacy of therapeutic compounds for
treatment-related complications, including PD psychosis. In this model,
psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) encompass stereotypies that are idiosyncratic in
nature and reproducible with each L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylanaline (L-DOPA)
administration. In the present study, we sought to expand upon the existing
repertoire of PLBs through the characterisation of novel stereotypical behaviours
that appear dependent on the environment. We then discuss our findings in the
context of clinical reports on stereotypical behaviours termed "punding" in
subjects with PD, which consists of stereotypical repetitive and senseless
behaviours. The poor understanding of the pathophysiology governing punding and
consequent lack of effective therapies stand to benefit from enhanced
characterisation of these stereotypical behaviours in a validated pre-clinical
model. We hope that further characterisation of PLBs in the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset will be helpful in the evaluation of interventions that seek to
alleviate PD psychosis symptoms.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany,
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-021-02090-6 
PMID: 33963876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Neuropharmacology. 2021 Mar 15;186:108465. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2021.108465.
Epub 2021 Jan 22.

Combined 5-HT2A and mGlu2 modulation for the treatment of dyskinesia and
psychosis in Parkinson's disease.

Kwan C(1), Frouni I(2), Nuara SG(3), Belliveau S(1), Kang W(1), Hamadjida A(1),
Bédard D(1), Beaudry F(4), Panisset M(5), Gourdon JC(3), Huot P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale Du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(5)Unité des Troubles Du Mouvement André-Barbeau, Service de Neurologie,
Département de Médecine, Centre Hospitalier de L'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Département de Neurosciences, Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal,
QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Antagonising the serotonin 2A (5-HT2A) receptor is an efficacious way to
alleviate dyskinesia and psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, previous
research indicates that there might be a limit to the effects conferred by this
approach. 5-HT2A receptors were shown to form hetero-dimers with metabotropic
glutamate 2 (mGlu2) receptors, in which 5-HT2A blockade and mGlu2 activation
elicit equivalent effects at the downstream signalling level. We have previously 
shown that mGlu2 activation reduces both dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours
(PLBs) induced by L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA), in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate. Here, we
hypothesised that concurrent 5-HT2A antagonism and mGlu2 activation would provide
greater anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic benefits than either approach alone.
We conducted 3 series of experiments in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset. In the first 
series of experiments, the mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator LY-487,379 and the
5-HT2A antagonist EMD-281,014, either alone or in combination, were added to
l-DOPA. In the second series of experiments, the mGlu2/3 orthosteric agonist
LY-354,740 and EMD-281,014, either alone or in combination, were added to l-DOPA.
In the last series of experiments, we investigated whether mGlu2 blockade would
diminish the effects of antagonising 5-HT2A receptors. To this end, the mGlu2/3
orthosteric antagonist LY-341,495 and EMD-281,014, either alone or in
combination, were added to l-DOPA. We found that the anti-dyskinetic effect of
the combination LY-487,379/EMD-281,014 was greater than the ones conferred by
LY-487,379 (by 35%, P < 0.05) and EMD-281,014 (by 38%, P < 0.01). The
anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic effects of the combination
LY-354,740/EMD-281,014 were also greater than the ones conferred by LY-354,740
(by 57% for dyskinesia and 54% for PLBs, both P < 0.001) and EMD-281,014 (by 61% 
for dyskinesia and 53% for PLBs, both P < 0.001). The anti-parkinsonian action of
l-DOPA was maintained with all treatments. Lastly, the addition of LY-341,495
abolished the therapeutic effects of EMD-281,014 on dyskinesia and PLBs. Our
results suggest that mGlu2 activation may enhance the anti-dyskinetic and
anti-psychotic effects of 5-HT2A blockade and could provide relief to PD patients
with dyskinesia and psychotic symptoms beyond what can be achieved with current
therapies.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2021.108465 
PMID: 33485945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2021 Jan;128(1):73-81. doi: 10.1007/s00702-020-02287-8.
Epub 2021 Jan 3.

Effect of the mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator CBiPES on dyskinesia,
psychosis-like behaviours and parkinsonism in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Frouni I(1)(2), Kwan C(1), Nuara SG(3), Belliveau S(1), Kang W(1), Hamadjida
A(1), Bédard D(1), Gourdon JC(3), Huot P(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) is often complicated by the occurrence of
dyskinesia, motor fluctuations and psychosis. To this day, few treatment options 
are available for each of these phenomena, and they are at times not effective or
elicit adverse events, leaving some patients short of therapeutic options. We
have recently shown that positive allosteric modulation of metabotropic 2 (mGlu2)
receptors with the prototypical positive allosteric modulator (PAM) LY-487,379 is
efficacious at alleviating both dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs), 
while simultaneously enhancing the anti-parkinsonian action of
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset. Here, we
assessed the effects of CBiPES, a mGlu2 PAM derived from LY-487,379, but with
improved pharmacokinetic properties. Six MPTP-lesioned marmosets with
reproducible dyskinesia and PLBs were administered L-DOPA in combination with
vehicle or CBiPES (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg), after which their behaviour was rated.
CBiPES 10 mg/kg reduced global dyskinesia by 60% (P < 0.0001), while peak dose
dyskinesia was reduced by 66% (P < 0.001), compared to L-DOPA/vehicle. CBiPES
10 mg/kg also diminished global PLBs by 56% (P < 0.0001), while peak dose PLBs
were reduced by 64% (P < 0.001), compared to L-DOPA/vehicle. Lastly, CBiPES
enhanced the anti-parkinsonian action of L-DOPA, by reducing global parkinsonian 
disability by 43% (P < 0.01), compared to L-DOPA/vehicle. Our results provide
further evidence that mGlu2 positive allosteric modulation may be an approach
that could be efficacious for the treatment of dyskinesia, psychosis and motor
fluctuations in PD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-020-02287-8 
PMID: 33392826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Neuropharmacology. 2021 Jan;182:108386. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.108386.
Epub 2020 Nov 3.

Selective blockade of the 5-HT3 receptor acutely alleviates dyskinesia and
psychosis in the parkinsonian marmoset.

Kwan C(1), Nuara SG(2), Bédard D(1), Gaudette F(3), Gourdon JC(2), Beaudry F(4), 
Huot P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Plateforme de Pharmacocinétique, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de 
l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department
of Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

In Parkinson's disease (PD), management of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine
(l-DOPA)-related complications, such as l-DOPA induced dyskinesia and psychosis, 
remains inadequate, which poses a significant burden on the quality of life of
patients. We have shown, in the hemi-parkinsonian rat model of PD, that the
selective serotonin type 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists ondansetron and
granisetron decreased the severity of established dyskinesia, and ondansetron
even attenuated the development of dyskinesia. Here, we seek to confirm these
favourable data on dyskinesia and to explore the effect of ondansetron on the
severity of psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) in the gold standard model of PD,
the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned non-human
primate. We first determined the pharmacokinetic profile of ondansetron in the
marmoset. Subsequently, six MPTP-lesioned marmosets were administered l-DOPA
chronically until they exhibited stable and reproducible dyskinesia and PLBs upon
each administration of l-DOPA. On behavioural assessment days, ondansetron (0.01,
0.1 and 1 mg/kg) or vehicle was administered in conjunction with l-DOPA, and the 
severity of dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonism was evaluated. Ondansetron
0.1 mg/kg alleviated global dyskinesia severity by 73% (P < 0.0001) and decreased
duration of on-time with disabling dyskinesia by 88% (P = 0.0491). Ondansetron
0.1 mg/kg reduced the severity of global PLBs by 80% (P < 0.0001) and suppressed 
on-time with disabling PLBs (P = 0.0213). Ondansetron enhanced the
anti-parkinsonian action of l-DOPA, reducing global parkinsonism by 53% compared 
to l-DOPA (P = 0.0004). These results suggest that selective blockade of the
5-HT3 receptor with ondansetron may be an effective approach to alleviate
l-DOPA-related complications.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.108386 
PMID: 33152452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2020 Oct;127(10):1343-1358. doi:
10.1007/s00702-020-02247-2. Epub 2020 Aug 29.

The MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease: proposed efficacy
thresholds that may potentially predict successful clinical trial results.

Beaudry F(1), Huot P(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animal du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(3)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(4)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmoset 
has been used extensively to model Parkinson's disease,
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and, more recently,
dopaminergic psychosis. Whereas several experimental drugs have been tested in
this primate, many of which subsequently underwent clinical trials, efficacy
thresholds in the marmoset that would predict efficacy in the clinic are lacking.
Here, we aimed to determine such efficacy end points that would be indicative of 
likely efficacy in clinical studies. To do so, we used the evidence-based
medicine reviews published by the International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society (IPMDS) to select drugs that were rated as clinically efficacious, likely
efficacious or not efficacious for the treatment of parkinsonism, dyskinesia and 
psychosis. We then reviewed the literature in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset and
identified articles reporting the effects of drugs that were included in the
IPMDS recommendations, following which we estimated efficacy thresholds in the
marmoset that would predict efficacy at the clinical level. We propose that, when
drugs are administered as monotherapy, ≥ 50% reduction of global parkinsonism may
be necessary to predict the possibility of clinical efficacy. As adjunct to a low
dose of L-DOPA, we propose that an additional reduction of global
parkinsonism ≥ 25% might predict clinical efficacy. As adjunct to an optimal dose
of L-DOPA, we propose that additional anti-parkinsonian benefit ≥ 20%, with
global parkinsonism as the end point, might predict clinical efficacy. For the
treatment of dyskinesia, we suggest that the predictability threshold be set
at ≥ 25% reduction of peak dose dyskinesia, while we believe that this threshold 
should be > 50% reduction of peak dose psychosis-like behaviours for
psychosis-related end points. This article represents the first step in
determining what efficacy might be necessary to achieve in pre-clinical studies
in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset prior to confidently advancing drugs to clinical
trials. We hope that it will help in the drug discovery and development process, 
notably by avoiding exposing patients to drugs that have little probability of
clinical efficacy based upon pre-clinical experiments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-020-02247-2 
PMID: 32860561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2020 Nov;393(11):2157-2164. doi:
10.1007/s00210-020-01933-y. Epub 2020 Jul 3.

Monoamine oxidase A inhibition with moclobemide enhances the anti-parkinsonian
effect of L-DOPA in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Hamadjida A(1), Nuara SG(2), Kwan C(1), Frouni I(1)(3), Bédard D(1), Gourdon
JC(2), Huot P(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Département de pharmacologie et physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Département de pharmacologie et physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Whereas monoamine oxidase (MAO) type B inhibitors are used as adjunct to
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in the treatment of Parkinson's disease
(PD), the enzyme MAO type A (MAO-A) also participates in the metabolism of
dopamine in the human and primate striatum. Here, we sought to assess the effect 
of the selective reversible MAO-A inhibitor moclobemide on L-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian in the gold standard animal model of PD, the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate. We also
assessed the effect of moclobemide on L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and
psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs). Experiments were performed in six MPTP-lesioned
marmosets chronically treated with L-DOPA and exhibiting stable dyskinesia and
PLBs upon each administration. In a randomised within-subject design, animals
were administered a therapeutic dose of L-DOPA in combination with moclobemide
(0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or its vehicle, after which the severity of parkinsonism,
dyskinesia, and PLBs was rated by an experienced blinded rater. Moclobemide
significantly reduced the global parkinsonian disability (- 36% with 0.1 mg/kg,
P < 0.05; - 38% with 1 mg/kg, P < 0.01; - 47% with 10 mg/kg, P < 0.01), when
compared with its vehicle. This reduction of parkinsonism was not accompanied by 
an exacerbation of dyskinesia or PLBs. Reversible MAO-A inhibition with
moclobemide appears as an effective way to increase the anti-parkinsonian action 
of L-DOPA, without negatively affecting dyskinesia or dopaminergic psychosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-020-01933-y 
PMID: 32621059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2020 Nov;393(11):2139-2144. doi:
10.1007/s00210-020-01927-w. Epub 2020 Jun 29.

Monoamine oxidase A inhibition as monotherapy reverses parkinsonism in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Hamadjida A(1), Nuara SG(2), Frouni I(1)(3), Kwan C(1), Bédard D(1), Gourdon
JC(2), Huot P(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, Quebec, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada.
(3)Département de pharmacologie et physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada.
(4)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, Quebec, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Département de pharmacologie et physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Monoamine oxidase (MAO) type B (MAO-B) inhibition was shown to confer
anti-parkinsonian benefit as monotherapy and adjunct to
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in clinical trials. Here, we explore the
anti-parkinsonian effect of MAO type A (MAO-A) inhibition as monotherapy, as the 
enzyme MAO-A is also encountered within the primate and human basal ganglia,
where it metabolises dopamine, albeit to a lesser extent than MAO-B. In six
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmosets, we
assessed the anti-parkinsonian effect of the reversible MAO-A inhibitor
moclobemide (0.1 and 1 mg/kg) as monotherapy and compared it to that of L-DOPA
and vehicle treatments. Moclobemide significantly reversed parkinsonism (by 39%, 
P < 0.01), while eliciting only mild dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours
(PLBs). In contrast, L-DOPA anti-parkinsonian effect was accompanied by marked
dyskinesia and PLBs. MAO-A inhibition with moclobemide may provide
anti-parkinsonian benefit when administered without L-DOPA and might perhaps be
considered as monotherapy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease in the early
stages of the condition.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-020-01927-w 
PMID: 32601846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2020 Jul;127(7):1013-1021. doi:
10.1007/s00702-020-02196-w. Epub 2020 Apr 24.

The mGlu2/3 antagonist LY-341,495 reverses the anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic
effects of the mGlu2 activators LY-487,379 and LY-354,740 in the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset.

Nuara SG(1), Hamadjida A(2)(3), Gourdon JC(1), Huot P(4)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(3)École Normale supérieure de Bertoua, Université de Ngaoundéré, Ngaoundéré,
Cameroon.
(4)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

We have recently shown that activation of metabotropic glutamate 2 (mGlu2)
receptors through positive allosteric modulation and orthosteric stimulation is a
novel approach to reduce L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia
and dopaminergic psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD). We have obtained these
benefits with the mGlu2-positive allosteric modulator (PAM) LY-487,379 and the
mGlu2/3 orthosteric agonist (OA) LY-354,740 in experiments conducted in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset. Here, we
sought to pharmacologically characterise the anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic
effects of LY-487,379 and LY-354,740, by assessing whether their benefits would
be reversed by the mGlu2/3 orthosteric antagonist LY-341,495. Six MPTP-lesioned
marmosets exhibiting stable dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs)
entered the experiments. In the first series of experiments, animals were
injected L-DOPA in combination with either vehicle, LY-487,379 (10 mg/kg),
LY-341,495 (1 mg/kg) or LY-487,379/LY-341,495. In the second series of
experiments, marmosets were injected L-DOPA in combination with either vehicle,
LY-354,740 (1 mg/kg), LY-341,495 (1 mg/kg) or LY-354,740/LY-341495. As we
previously demonstrated, both LY-487,379 and LY-354,740 alleviated dyskinesia (by
44% and 47%, both P < 0.001) and PLBs (by 44% and 39%, P < 0.01 and P < 0.001)
when compared to vehicle treatment. When LY-487,379 and LY-354,740 were
administered concurrently with LY-341,495, the anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic
benefits were abolished. When administered with L-DOPA in the absence of
LY-487,379 and LY-354,740, LY-341,495 did not worsen dyskinesia or PLBs and did
not hamper L-DOPA anti-parkinsonian action. Our results indicate that the
anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic effects of mGlu2-positive allosteric
modulation and mGlu2/3 orthosteric stimulation are reversed by mGlu2/3
orthosteric blockade.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-020-02196-w 
PMID: 32333122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2020 Jul;127(7):1023-1029. doi:
10.1007/s00702-020-02185-z. Epub 2020 Apr 3.

Combined mGlu2 orthosteric stimulation and positive allosteric modulation
alleviates L-DOPA-induced psychosis-like behaviours and dyskinesia in the
parkinsonian marmoset.

Nuara SG(1), Hamadjida A(2), Kwan C(2), Bédard D(2), Frouni I(3), Gourdon JC(1), 
Huot P(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(3)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Division of Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, Movement Disorder Clinic, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

In recent studies performed in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease (PD), we have demonstrated 
that activation of the metabotropic glutamate 2 (mGlu2) receptor with the
orthosteric agonist (OA) LY-354,740 and the positive allosteric modulator (PAM)
LY-487,379 is effective at alleviating both dyskinesia and psychosis-like
behaviours (PLBs) triggered by the administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine
(L-DOPA). Because mGlu2 OAs and PAMs bind to different sites on the receptor, we 
hypothesised that greater reductions of dyskinesia and PLBs would be obtained
upon concurrent administration of LY-354,740 and LY-487,379. In experiments
performed in six MPTP-lesioned marmosets, we administered LY-354,740 (0.1 mg/kg),
LY-487,379 (1 mg/kg), LY-354,740 (0.1 mg/kg) + LY-487,379 (1 mg/kg), or vehicle, 
in combination with L-DOPA and determined the effect of each treatment on
dyskinesia, PLBs, and parkinsonism. When compared to vehicle, LY-354,740 and
LY-487,379, administered alone or concurrently, significantly reduced dyskinesia.
The combination LY-354,740 + LY-487,379 provided mild additional benefit when
compared to LY-487,379 alone, but not compared to LY-354,740. For PLBs, when
compared to vehicle treatment, LY-354,740, LY-487,379, and combination thereof
all alleviated the abnormal behaviours, but the combination
LY-354,740 + LY-487,379 did not provide greater relief than either drug alone.
The anti-parkinsonian effect of L-DOPA was not altered by any of the treatments. 
Our results provide further evidence that mGlu2 activation might be a novel
approach to treat L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and dopaminergic psychosis in PD.
However, they do not suggest that greater therapeutic effect would be achieved
upon combining an mGlu2 OA and an mGlu2 PAM.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-020-02185-z 
PMID: 32246204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Eur J Pharmacol. 2020 Apr 15;873:172957. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.172957. Epub 
2020 Jan 28.

Selective metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 positive allosteric modulation
alleviates L-DOPA-induced psychosis-like behaviours and dyskinesia in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Sid-Otmane L(1), Hamadjida A(2), Nuara SG(3), Bédard D(2), Gaudette F(4), Gourdon
JC(3), Michaud V(5), Beaudry F(6), Panisset M(7), Huot P(8).

Author information: 
(1)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Plateforme de Pharmacocinétique, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de 
l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, College of Pharmacy, University of
Florida, Lake Nona Campus, Orlando, FL, USA.
(6)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(7)Unité des troubles du mouvement André-Barbeau, Service de Neurologie,
Département de Médecine, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Département de Neurosciences, Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(8)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, McGill University Health Centre,
Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Psychosis and dyskinesia significantly diminish the quality of life of patients
with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Available treatment options are
unfortunately few and their use is limited by adverse effects. We have recently
shown that activation of metabotropic glutamate 2 and 3 (mGlu2/3) receptors
produced significant relief of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced
psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) and dyskinesia in experimental models of PD.
Here, using the highly-selective mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator (PAM)
LY-487,379, we seek to determine the contribution of selective mGlu2 activation
on both L-DOPA-induced PLBs and dyskinesia, in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate. We first
determined the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of LY-487,379 in the common marmoset,
following which we administered it (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or its vehicle to 6
MPTP-lesioned marmosets previously exposed to L-DOPA to elicit stable PLBs and
dyskinesia. We found that LY-487,379 provided a ≈45% reduction of the global PLBs
observed and reduced global dyskinesia score by ≈ 55%. Moreover, LY-487,379
enhanced the anti-parkinsonian effect of L-DOPA, by reducing global parkinsonian 
score by ≈ 15%. Our data suggest that selective mGlu2 positive allosteric
modulation with LY-487,379 may represent a potential therapeutic approach to
alleviate both L-DOPA-induced PLBs and dyskinesia in PD.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.172957 
PMID: 32004527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Eur J Neurosci. 2020 Jun;51(12):2412-2422. doi: 10.1111/ejn.14679. Epub 2020 Feb 
12.

The highly selective mGlu2 receptor positive allosteric modulator LY-487,379
alleviates l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of
Parkinson's disease.

Hamadjida A(1), Sid-Otmane L(2), Kwan C(1), Frouni I(1)(2), Nafade V(1), Bédard
D(1), Gagnon D(3), Wallman MJ(3), Rouillard C(4), Parent A(3), Parent M(3), Huot 
P(1)(2)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Centre de Recherche CERVO, Quebec City, QC, Canada.
(4)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Québec, Quebec
City, QC, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada.
(6)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.

l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) is the most effective treatment for
Parkinson's disease (PD), but its use over a long period is marred by motors
complications such as dyskinesia. We previously demonstrated that selective
metabotropic glutamate 2/3 (mGlu2/3 ) receptor activation with LY-354,740
alleviates dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset and the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat. Here,
we sought to determine the role played by selective mGlu2 activation in the
anti-dyskinetic effect of mGlu2/3 stimulation and have investigated the effect of
the highly selective mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator LY-487,379 at
alleviating established, and preventing the development of, l-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat. First, dyskinetic 6-OHDA-lesioned rats
were administered l-DOPA in combination with LY-487,379 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or 
vehicle, and the severity of dyskinesia was determined. Second, 6-OHDA-lesioned
rats were administered LY-487,379 (0.1 or 1 mg/kg), started concurrently with
l-DOPA, once daily for 22 days, and dyskinesia severity was evaluated weekly for 
four consecutive weeks. We also assessed the effect of LY-487,379 on l-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian effect. We found that acute challenges of LY-487,379 0.1 mg/kg 
in combination with l-DOPA, significantly diminished dyskinesia severity, by ≈54%
(p < .01), when compared to vehicle. Moreover, animals treated with
l-DOPA/LY-487,379 0.1 and 1 mg/kg during the dyskinesia induction phase exhibited
milder dyskinesia, by ≈74% and ≈61%, respectively (both p < .01), when compared
to l-DOPA/vehicle. LY-487,379 did not impair l-DOPA anti-parkinsonian activity.
These results suggest that mGlu2 activation may be an effective and promising
therapeutic strategy to alleviate the severity and prevent the development of
dyskinesia.

© 2020 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.14679 
PMID: 31944461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Neuropharmacology. 2019 Nov 1;158:107725. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2019.107725. 
Epub 2019 Jul 25.

Activation of mGlu2/3 receptors, a novel therapeutic approach to alleviate
dyskinesia and psychosis in experimental parkinsonism.

Frouni I(1), Hamadjida A(2), Kwan C(2), Bédard D(3), Nafade V(3), Gaudette F(4), 
Nuara SG(5), Gourdon JC(5), Beaudry F(6), Huot P(7).

Author information: 
(1)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute,
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Plateforme de Pharmacocinétique, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de 
l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(6)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(7)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, McGill University Health Centre,
Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Selective blockade of serotonin 2A (5-HT2A) receptors is a promising strategy to 
reduce L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and has shown
efficacy in a Phase III clinical trial for dopaminergic psychosis in Parkinson's 
disease (PD). However, pre-clinical and clinical evidence suggest that, while
this approach may be effective and well tolerated, there might be a ceiling
beyond which no further therapeutic benefit might be achieved. There is mounting 
evidence that 5-HT2A receptors form a functional hetero-complex with metabotropic
glutamate 2 (mGlu2) receptors, with antagonism of 5-HT2A receptors and activation
of mGlu2 receptors producing similar effects on the Gi/Gq signalling ratio at the
intra-cellular level. Based on this interaction between 5-HT2A and mGlu2
receptors, we hypothesised that activation of mGlu2 receptors would alleviate
dyskinesia and psychosis in PD. LY-354,740 is a selective mGlu2/3 orthosteric
agonist that was previously tested in the clinic. In experiments conducted in the
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat and the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset, we found
that mGlu2/3 activation with LY-354,740 significantly reduced the expression of
dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours, while simultaneously enhancing l-DOPA
therapeutic benefit. Moreover, mGlu2/3 activation with LY-354,740 attenuated the 
development of dyskinesia. These data indicate that activation of mGlu2/3
receptors is a therapeutic strategy that may provide relief for both motor
and-non-motor treatment-related complications in PD.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2019.107725 
PMID: 31351976  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Exp Brain Res. 2019 Feb;237(2):435-442. doi: 10.1007/s00221-018-5434-9. Epub 2018
Nov 15.

5-HT2A blockade for dyskinesia and psychosis in Parkinson's disease: is there a
limit to the efficacy of this approach? A study in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset and
a literature mini-review.

Kwan C(1)(2), Frouni I(1)(3), Bédard D(1), Nuara SG(4), Gourdon JC(4), Hamadjida 
A(1)(2), Huot P(5)(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(8)Department of Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(9)Division of Neurology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Virtually every patient affected by Parkinson's disease (PD) eventually requires 
treatment with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), which leads to
complications such as dyskinesia and psychosis. Whereas blockade of serotonin 2A 
(5-HT2A) receptors appears to be an effective way to reduce both dyskinesia and
psychosis, whether it has the potential to eliminate the two phenomena remains to
be determined. In a previous study, we showed that highly selective 5-HT2A
receptor blockade with EMD-281,014, at plasma levels comparable to those achieved
in the clinic, reduced dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs), in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset. Here, we
sought to determine whether further increasing the dose would result in greater
therapeutic benefit or if maximal effectiveness was achieved at lower doses. Six 
MPTP-lesioned marmosets with stable dyskinesia and PLBs were administered
EMD-281,014 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or vehicle in combination with L-DOPA and the
effect on dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonism was assessed. Administration of
EMD-281,014 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) in combination with L-DOPA resulted in a
significant reduction in the severity of dyskinesia, by up to 63%, 64% and 61%
(each P < 0.001), when compared to L-DOPA/vehicle. Similarly, the addition of
EMD-281,014 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) to L-DOPA also significantly decreased the
severity of PLBs, by up to 54%, 55% and 53% (each P < 0.001), when compared to
L-DOPA/vehicle. Our results suggest that there might be a ceiling to the
reduction of dyskinesia and psychosis that can be achieved through antagonism of 
5-HT2A receptors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-018-5434-9 
PMID: 30443669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2018 Dec;391(12):1339-1345. doi:
10.1007/s00210-018-1549-6. Epub 2018 Aug 7.

Nefazodone reduces dyskinesia, but not psychosis-like behaviours, in the
parkinsonian marmoset.

Hamadjida A(1)(2), Nuara SG(3), Bédard D(1), Frouni I(1)(4), Kwan C(1)(2),
Gourdon JC(3), Huot P(5)(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St., BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St., BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(8)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(9)Division of Neurology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Nefazodone is an anti-depressant that interacts with a wealth of pharmacological 
targets, including some that may exert anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic effects
in Parkinson's disease (PD), notably serotonin 1A and 2A receptors. In this
study, we sought to determine the effect of nefazodone on
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and psychosis-like
behaviours (PLBs) in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned primate. Six common marmosets developed parkinsonism following
administration of MPTP, after which they were treated chronically with L-DOPA to 
induce stable dyskinesia and PLBs. In behavioural experiments, nefazodone (0.01, 
0.1 and 1 mg/kg) or vehicle was administered in combination with L-DOPA and its
effects on dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonian disability were assessed. The
addition of nefazodone 0.01, 0.1 and 1 mg/kg to L-DOPA reduced the severity of
peak dose dyskinesia by ≈ 21%, ≈ 39% and ≈ 42% (all P < 0.05), while it did not
have any significant effect on PLBs, when compared to L-DOPA/vehicle.
Parkinsonian disability was not affected by any dose of nefazodone. Our results
suggest that nefazodone may be effective to alleviate L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia
in PD, while it may not exert any beneficial effect on dopaminergic psychosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-018-1549-6 
PMID: 30088028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Neuropharmacology. 2018 Sep 1;139:61-67. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.06.038.
Epub 2018 Jun 30.

The highly selective 5-HT2A antagonist EMD-281,014 reduces dyskinesia and
psychosis in the l-DOPA-treated parkinsonian marmoset.

Hamadjida A(1), Nuara SG(2), Bédard D(3), Gaudette F(4), Beaudry F(5), Gourdon
JC(2), Huot P(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire Université de Montréal, 
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(6)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada; Department of Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada;
Division of Neurology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Blockade of serotonin 2A (5-HT2A) receptors is regarded as an anti-dyskinetic and
anti-psychotic strategy in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the 5-HT2A
antagonists tested so far exhibited affinity for other receptors, which might
have played a role in their action. EMD-281,014 is the most selective 5-HT2A
antagonist available, with approximately 2,000-fold selectivity over serotonin 2C
(5-HT2C) receptors. EMD-281,014 was previously tested in the clinic and has high 
translational potential. In the present study, we assessed the effect of
EMD-281,014 on dyskinesia and psychosis in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmoset. We 
first determined the pharmacokinetic profile of EMD-281,014 in the marmoset,
after which doses leading to clinically-relevant plasma levels (0.01, 0.03 and
0.1 mg/kg) or vehicle were administered to MPTP-lesioned marmosets, in
combination with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA). The effects of
EMD-281,014 on dyskinesia, psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) and parkinsonism were
then evaluated. When added to l-DOPA, EMD-281,014 (0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg) reduced
peak dose dyskinesia, by 41.8% and 54.5% (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001), when compared 
to l-DOPA/vehicle. EMD-281,014 (0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg) also significantly reduced
the severity of peak dose PLBs, by 42.5% and 45.9% (P < 0.05 and P < 0.001), when
compared to vehicle. The anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic effects of
EMD-281,014 were achieved without interfering with l-DOPA anti-parkinsonian
action. Our results suggest that highly-selective 5-HT2A receptor blockade with
EMD-281,014 is an effective way to alleviate both dyskinesia and psychosis in PD,
without adversely affecting parkinsonian disability.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.06.038 
PMID: 29969592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2018 May;365(2):379-397. doi: 10.1124/jpet.117.247171. Epub
2018 Mar 9.

Predictive Value of Parkinsonian Primates in Pharmacologic Studies: A Comparison 
between the Macaque, Marmoset, and Squirrel Monkey.

Veyres N(1), Hamadjida A(1), Huot P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(N.V.),Montreal Neurological Institute (A.H.,P.H.), and Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery, McGill University (P.H.), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(N.V.),Montreal Neurological Institute (A.H.,P.H.), and Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery, McGill University (P.H.), Montreal, Quebec, Canada
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate is the
gold-standard animal model of Parkinson disease (PD) and has been used to assess 
the effectiveness of experimental drugs on dyskinesia, parkinsonism, and
psychosis. Three species have been used in most studies-the macaque, marmoset,
and squirrel monkey-the last much less so than the first two species; however,
the predictive value of each species at forecasting clinical efficacy, or lack
thereof, is poorly documented. Here, we have reviewed all the published
literature detailing pharmacologic studies that assessed the effects of
experimental drugs on dyskinesia, parkinsonism, and psychosis in each of these
species and have calculated their predictive value of success and failure at the 
clinical level. We found that, for dyskinesia, the macaque has a positive
predictive value of 87.5% and a false-positive rate of 38.1%, whereas the
marmoset has a positive predictive value of 76.9% and a false-positive rate of
15.6%. For parkinsonism, the macaque has a positive predictive value of 68.2% and
a false-positive rate of 44.4%, whereas the marmoset has a positive predictive
value of 86.9% and a false-positive rate of 41.7%. No drug that alleviates
psychosis in the clinic has shown efficacy at doing so in the macaque, whereas
the marmoset has 100% positive predictive value. The small number of studies
conducted in the squirrel monkey precluded us from calculating its predictive
efficacy. We hope our results will help in the design of pharmacologic
experiments and will facilitate the drug discovery and development process in PD.

Copyright © 2018 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.117.247171 
PMID: 29523699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2017 Mar;234(6):905-911. doi:
10.1007/s00213-017-4530-z. Epub 2017 Jan 27.

The effect of mirtazapine on dopaminergic psychosis and dyskinesia in the
parkinsonian marmoset.

Hamadjida A(1), Nuara SG(2), Veyres N(1), Frouni I(1)(3), Kwan C(1)(3),
Sid-Otmane L(1)(3), Harraka MJ(3), Gourdon JC(2), Huot P(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
R09.436, 900 Rue St-Denis, Montreal, QC, H2X 0A9, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resources Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
R09.436, 900 Rue St-Denis, Montreal, QC, H2X 0A9, Canada. p.huot@umontreal.ca.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
p.huot@umontreal.ca.
(6)Unité des Troubles du Mouvement André Barbeau, Centre Hospitalier de
l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada. p.huot@umontreal.ca.
(7)Division of Neurology, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada. p.huot@umontreal.ca.

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) psychosis is encountered in as many as 50%
of patients with advanced disease. Treatment options for PD psychosis are few. In
fact, only clozapine and pimavanserin have shown efficacy in randomised
controlled trials. Clinicians are often reluctant to prescribe the former, due to
the risk of agranulocytosis, while the latter is not widely available yet.
Because it is already clinically available and exhibits high affinity for
serotonin 2A receptors, a target with which both clozapine and pimavanserin
interact, we hypothesised that the anti-depressant mirtazapine might be effective
to alleviate PD psychosis.
METHODS: Here, we tested the anti-psychotic potential of mirtazapine in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmoset.
Five MPTP-lesioned marmosets exhibiting psychosis-like behaviours were
administered L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in combination with
mirtazapine (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or vehicle. We also tested the effect of
mirtazapine on L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
RESULTS: The addition of mirtazapine 10 mg/kg to L-DOPA reduced psychosis-like
behaviours by 50% (P < 0.05) and dyskinesia by 29% (P < 0.01), when compared to
L-DOPA/vehicle. Importantly, the antipsychotic and antidyskinetic effects of
mirtazapine were achieved without hindering L-DOPA anti-parkinsonian action.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that mirtazapine may be effective to alleviate
PD psychosis and, because the drug is clinically available, clinical trials that 
would assess its anti-psychotic efficacy in PD could be rapidly undertaken,
hopefully leading to a new treatment option for this debilitating condition.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-017-4530-z 
PMID: 28130646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Eur J Pharmacol. 2014 Oct 15;741:304-10. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.08.004. Epub 
2014 Aug 23.

The H3 receptor agonist immepip does not affect l-dopa-induced abnormal
involuntary movements in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats.

Papathanou M(1), Jenner P(1), Iravani M(1), Jackson M(1), Stockwell K(1), Strang 
I(1), Zeng BY(1), McCreary AC(2), Rose S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Biomedical Sciences,
King׳s College London, Hodgkin Building, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(2)Abbott Healthcare B.V., (formerly Solvay Pharmaceuticals Research
Laboratories), Weesp, The Netherlands.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Biomedical Sciences,
King׳s College London, Hodgkin Building, London, SE1 1UL, UK. Electronic address:
sarah.rose@kcl.ac.uk.

The treatment of dyskinesia in Parkinson׳s disease remains poor but H3 receptor
agonists have been suggested as a novel pharmacological approach. We examined the
effects of the H3 agonist, immepip, in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats exhibiting AIMs
(abnormal involuntary movements), a rat analogue of dyskinesia, in response to
l-dopa compared to the known anti-dyskinetic agents amantadine, MK-801 and
8-OHDPAT. We then attempted to extend these studies in to dyskinetic
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treated common marmosets.
Amantadine, MK-801 and 8-OHDPAT all dose-dependently reduced l-dopa-induced
axial, lingual and oral (ALO) AIMs in 6-OHDA-lesioned animals accompanied by a
reduction in contralateral rotation with higher doses of amantadine and MK-801.
By contrast, immepip had no effect on AIMs expression or contralateral rotation. 
In the MPTP-treated common marmoset exhibiting dyskinesia to l-dopa, immepip
alone induced retching and in combination with l-dopa administered subcutaneously
or orally induced the rapid onset of retching and vomiting which was not
controlled by pretreatment with domperidone. Administration of the unrelated H3
agonist, imetit had the same effect. Despite causing negative side-effects, it
appears that both agonists reduced the antiparkinsonian response to l-dopa
resulting in reduced dyskinesia. H3 agonists appear unlikely candidates for the
treatment of dyskinesia in PD based on lack of evidence of efficacy and potential
adverse effects.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.08.004 
PMID: 25160743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Neuropharmacology. 2014 Jul;82:76-87. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2014.01.012. Epub
2014 Jan 18.

UWA-121, a mixed dopamine and serotonin re-uptake inhibitor, enhances L-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian action without worsening dyskinesia or psychosis-like
behaviours in the MPTP-lesioned common marmoset.

Huot P(1), Johnston TH(2), Lewis KD(3), Koprich JB(2), Reyes MG(2), Fox SH(4),
Piggott MJ(5), Brotchie JM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Krembil Discovery Tower, 8KD-402, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada; Division of Neurology, Movement
Disorder Clinic, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health Network, 399
Bathurst Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada. Electronic address:
p.huot@umontreal.ca.
(2)Toronto Western Research Institute, Krembil Discovery Tower, 8KD-402, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada.
(3)School of Biomedical, Biomolecular and Chemical Sciences, The University of
Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Perth 6009, Australia.
(4)Toronto Western Research Institute, Krembil Discovery Tower, 8KD-402, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada; Division of Neurology, Movement
Disorder Clinic, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health Network, 399
Bathurst Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada.
(5)School of Biomedical, Biomolecular and Chemical Sciences, The University of
Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Perth 6009, Australia. Electronic
address: matthew.piggott@uwa.edu.au.
(6)Toronto Western Research Institute, Krembil Discovery Tower, 8KD-402, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada. Electronic address:
brotchie@uhnres.utoronto.ca.

L-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is the most effective treatment for
Parkinson's disease (PD), but its long-term administration is complicated by
wearing-off and dyskinesia. UWA-101, a dual, equipotent inhibitor of dopamine
(DAT) and serotonin (SERT) transporters, has previously been shown to
successfully extend duration of anti-parkinsonian benefit of L-DOPA (ON-time),
without exacerbating dyskinesia, in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset. However,
UWA-101 is racemic and it is unclear whether one or both enantiomers contribute
to its actions, and whether a better therapeutic effect might be attained by
using a single antipode. In the current study, we synthesised the two enantiomers
of UWA-101, R-101 (UWA-121) and S-101 (UWA-122), characterised their
pharmacological profiles and administered them to MPTP-lesioned marmosets.
Parkinsonism, dyskinesia, psychosis-like behaviours and duration of ON-time were 
evaluated. UWA-121 is a dual DAT > SERT inhibitor, with an approximate 10:1
DAT:SERT affinity ratio (inhibitory constants (Ki) of 307 and 3830 nM,
respectively). In combination with L-DOPA, UWA-121 extended duration of ON-time
when compared to L-DOPA/vehicle treatment (by 40%, P < 0.01). UWA-121 also
extended duration of ON-time without dyskinesia (by 215%, P < 0.05) and ON-time
without psychosis-like behaviours when compared to L-DOPA/vehicle treatment (by
345%, P < 0.01). UWA-121 did not worsen the severity of dyskinesia or
psychosis-like behaviours (P > 0.05). UWA-122 is a selective SERT inhibitor (Ki
120 nM, Ki at DAT > 50 μM) and, in combination with L-DOPA, had no effect on
ON-time, dyskinesia or psychosis-like behaviours (P > 0.05). These data indicate 
that dual DAT and SERT inhibitors effectively enhance L-DOPA anti-parkinsonian
action without worsening dyskinesia and that compounds with such a
pharmacological profile represent promising agents against wearing-off in PD.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2014.01.012 
PMID: 24447715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e45587. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045587. Epub 2012 Sep 20.

The monoamine re-uptake inhibitor UWA-101 improves motor fluctuations in the
MPTP-lesioned common marmoset.

Huot P(1), Johnston TH, Gandy MN, Reyes MG, Fox SH, Piggott MJ, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The wearing-OFF phenomenon is a common motor complication of chronic 
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) therapy for Parkinson's disease. We
recently described the discovery of UWA-101, a dual serotonin (SERT) and dopamine
(DAT) transporter inhibitor, which increases the duration of "good quality"
ON-time provided by L-DOPA in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned primate. Here, we further characterise the effects of UWA-101 on 
this extension of ON-time in terms of L-DOPA-induced side-effects in the
MPTP-lesioned common marmoset.
METHODS: Marmosets were rendered parkinsonian by MPTP injection and "primed" by
repeated L-DOPA administration, to exhibit dyskinesia and psychosis-like
behaviours. Animals were then administered acute challenges of L-DOPA in
combination with UWA-101 (1, 3, 6 and 10 mg/kg) or vehicle.
RESULTS: In combination with L-DOPA, UWA-101 (3, 6 and 10 mg/kg) significantly
increased duration of ON-time (by 28%, 28%, and 33%, respectively; all P<0.05).
UWA-101 (10 mg/kg) significantly extended duration of ON-time without disabling
dyskinesia (by 62%, P<0.01). UWA-101 did not exacerbate the severity of
dyskinesia (P>0.05). However, at the highest doses (6 and 10 mg/kg), UWA-101
increased the severity of psychosis-like behaviours (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that dual SERT/ DAT inhibitors can
effectively enhance L-DOPA anti-parkinsonian action, without exacerbating
dyskinesia and, as such, represent a promising new therapeutic class for
wearing-OFF. However, at higher doses, dual SERT/ DAT inhibitors may exacerbate
dopaminergic psychosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045587 
PMCID: PMC3447761
PMID: 23029119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2013 Feb;19(2):260-4. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2012.07.001. Epub 2012 Aug 14.

RGFP109, a histone deacetylase inhibitor attenuates L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 
the MPTP-lesioned marmoset: a proof-of-concept study.

Johnston TH(1), Huot P, Damude S, Fox SH, Jones SW, Rusche JR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain, Imaging & Behaviour, Systems Neuroscience, Toronto Western 
Research Institute, 399 Bathurst Street, MP-12-303, Toronto, ON M5T2S8, Canada.
tom.johnston@uhnresearch.ca

BACKGROUND: l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID) are a 
complication of chronic dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD).
Recent studies have suggested that the mechanisms underlying development and
expression of LID in PD may involve epigenetic changes that include deacetylation
of striatal histone proteins. We hypothesised that inhibition of histone
deacetylase, the enzyme responsible of histone deacetylation, would alleviate
LID.
METHODS: Four female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) were rendered
parkinsonian by administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP). Following stabilisation of the parkinsonian phenotype, marmosets were
primed to exhibit dyskinesia with chronic administration of L-DOPA. We then
investigated the effects of the brain-penetrant histone deacetylase inhibitor,
RGFP109 (30 mg/kg p.o. once daily for 6 days), on LID and L-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian efficacy.
RESULTS: RGFP109 had no acute effects on dyskinesia after single or 6 days
once-daily treatment (both P > 0.05). However, one week following cessation of
RGFP109, dyskinesia and duration of ON-time with disabling dyskinesia were
reduced by 37% and 50%, respectively (both P < 0.05), compared to that seen
previously with L-DOPA alone. There was no change in anti-parkinsonian actions
of, or ON-time duration afforded by, L-DOPA (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Histone deacetylation inhibition may represent a novel approach to
reverse established LID in PD and improve quality of the anti-parkinsonian
benefit provided by L-DOPA.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2012.07.001 
PMID: 22901956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Neurosci. 2011 May 11;31(19):7190-8. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1171-11.2011.

Characterization of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) enantiomers in vitro
and in the MPTP-lesioned primate: R-MDMA reduces severity of dyskinesia, whereas 
S-MDMA extends duration of ON-time.

Huot P(1), Johnston TH, Lewis KD, Koprich JB, Reyes MG, Fox SH, Piggott MJ,
Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario M5T 2S8, Canada.

l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) is the most effective treatment for
Parkinson's disease, but long-term l-DOPA administration is marred by the
emergence of motor complications, namely, dyskinesia and a shortening of
antiparkinsonian benefit (wearing-OFF). 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) 
is unique in that it exerts antidyskinetic effects and may enhance
antiparkinsonian actions of l-DOPA. MDMA is composed of two enantiomers with
different pharmacological profiles; here, we describe a novel enantiospecific
synthesis of the two enantiomers and expand on the previous characterization of
their pharmacology. R-MDMA (rectus-MDMA) is relatively selective for 5-HT(2A)
receptors, whereas S-MDMA (sinister-MDMA) inhibits both serotonin (SERT) and
dopamine transporters (DAT; SERT/DAT ratio of 10 to 1). R- or S-MDMA (1, 3, and
10 mg/kg, s.c.) was administered in combination with l-DOPA (15 mg/kg, s.c.) to
six female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) rendered parkinsonian by MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) administration. Motor disability, 
including parkinsonism and dyskinesia, and duration of antiparkinsonian benefit
(ON-time) were evaluated. After the administration of R-MDMA (3 and 10 mg/kg),
the severity of peak-dose dyskinesia was decreased (by 33 and 46%, respectively; 
p < 0.05); although total ON-time was unchanged (approximately 220 min), the
duration of ON-time with disabling dyskinesia was decreased by 90 min when
compared to l-DOPA alone (69% reduction; p < 0.05). S-MDMA (1 mg/kg) increased
the total ON-time by 88 min compared to l-DOPA alone (34% increase; p < 0.05),
though dyskinesia were exacerbated. These data suggest that racemic MDMA exerts
simultaneous effects, reducing dyskinesia and extending ON-time, by 5-HT(2A)
antagonism and SERT-selective mixed monoamine uptake inhibition, which arise from
its R and S enantiomers, respectively.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1171-11.2011 
PMCID: PMC6703214
PMID: 21562283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2011 Feb;336(2):423-30. doi: 10.1124/jpet.110.169532. Epub 
2010 Oct 21.

Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibition reduces
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine-induced hyperactivity in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned non-human primate model of 
Parkinson's disease.

Johnston TH(1), Huot P, Fox SH, Wakefield JD, Sykes KA, Bartolini WP, Milne GT,
Pearson JP, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Dopaminergic therapies remain the most efficacious symptomatic treatments for
Parkinson's disease (PD) but are associated with motor complications, including
dyskinesia, and nonmotor complications, such as psychosis, impulse control
disorders (ICD), and dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS). Nondopaminergic
neurotransmitter systems, including the endocannabinoid system, are probably
critical to the development of these complications. The role of fatty acid amide 
hydrolase (FAAH) in mediating l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced
behaviors was explored in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmoset model of PD.
Pharmacodynamic and locomotor effects of the selective FAAH inhibitor
[3-(3-carbamoylphenyl)phenyl] N-cyclohexylcarbamate (URB597) were assessed via
bioanalytical (liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry) and behavioral
observation approaches. URB597 (3, 10, 30, or 60 mg/kg p.o.) increased plasma
levels of the FAAH substrates N-arachidonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide), N-oleoyl 
ethanolamide, and N-palmitoyl ethanolamide by 10.3 ± 0.3-, 7.8 ± 0.2-, and 1.8 ± 
0.1-fold (mean of URB597 groups ± S.E.M.), respectively, compared with vehicle
(all p < 0.001) 4 h after administration. Treatment with L-DOPA (20 mg/kg s.c.)
alleviated parkinsonism but elicited dyskinesia, psychosis-like-behaviors and
hyperactivity, a potential correlate of ICD and DDS. During the 2 to 4 h after
L-DOPA, corresponding to 4 to 6 h after URB597 administration, URB597 reduced
total L-DOPA-induced activity and the magnitude of hyperactivity by 32 and 52%,
respectively, to levels equivalent to those seen in normal animals. Treatment
with URB597 (10 mg/kg p.o.) did not modify the antiparkinsonian actions of L-DOPA
or L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and psychosis. URB597 did not alter plasma L-DOPA
levels and was without behavioral effects when administered alone. Inhibition of 
FAAH may represent a novel approach to reducing L-DOPA-induced side effects, such
as ICD and DDS, while maintaining the antiparkinsonian benefits of L-DOPA
treatment.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.110.169532 
PMID: 20966038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Neurobiol Dis. 2010 Dec;40(3):599-607. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2010.08.004. Epub 2010 
Aug 14.

Morphological changes in serotoninergic neurites in the striatum and globus
pallidus in levodopa primed MPTP treated common marmosets with dyskinesia.

Zeng BY(1), Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Rose S, Parent A, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)NDRG, School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Hyperinnervation of the striatum by serotoninergic (5-HT) terminals occurs after 
destruction of the dopaminergic nigro-striatal pathway. Recent studies have
suggested that non-physiological release of dopamine (DA) formed from levodopa in
these serotoninergic terminals underlies abnormal involuntary movement (AIMs)
induction in 6-OHDA lesioned rats. In the present study, we used tryptophan
hydroxylase (TPH) immunohistochemistry to determine whether
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) treatment and
the induction of dyskinesia by levodopa alter the morphology of 5-HT fibres in
the striatum of common marmosets. The caudate-putamen of normal monkeys contained
numerous fine and smooth TPH positive fibres and numerous varicose fibres, but a 
marked hyperinnervation of TPH positive fibres characterised by a significant
increase in the number and diameter of TPH positive axon varicosities was noted
in the dorsal caudate and putamen of MPTP-intoxicated monkeys but not the globus 
pallidus. In MPTP-intoxicated marmosets that had received chronic levodopa
treatment to induce dyskinesia, a further increase in the number and enlargement 
of TPH positive axonal varicosities in both caudate nucleus and putamen was
evident. Following LID induction, a similar pattern of increase was also observed
in the external segment of the globus pallidus, but only a significant varicosity
enlargement was seen in the internal pallidal segment. These results confirm that
striatal 5-HT hyperinnervation follows nigro-striatal pathway loss and provide
the first evidence in primates that chronic levodopa treatment and the onset of
dyskinesia are associated with a marked hypertrophy of striatal 5-HT axonal
varicosities. These findings support the concept that altered 5-HT function may
contribute to the genesis or expression of LID.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2010.08.004 
PMID: 20713157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Can J Neurol Sci. 2010 Jan;37(1):86-95.

Neuropsychiatric behaviors in the MPTP marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.

Fox SH(1), Visanji N, Reyes G, Huot P, Gomez-Ramirez J, Johnston T, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurology, Toronto Western Research Institute, University of
Toronto, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Neuropsychiatric symptoms are increasingly recognised as a
significant problem in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). These symptoms may
be due to 'sensitisation' following repeated levodopa treatment or a direct
effect of dopamine on the disease state. The levodopa-treated MPTP-lesioned
marmoset was used as a model of neuropsychiatric symptoms in PD patients. Here we
compare the time course of levodopa-induced motor fluctuations and
neuropsychiatric-like behaviors to determine the relationship between duration of
treatment and onset of symptoms.
METHODS: Marmosets were administered 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(2.0 mg/kg s.c.) for five days, resulting in stable parkinsonism. Levodopa (15
mg/kg and benserazide, 3.75 mg/kg) p.o. b.i.d, was administered for 30 days.
Animals were evaluated for parkinsonian disability, dyskinesia and on-time (motor
fluctuations) and neuropsychiatric-like behaviors on Day 0 (prior to levodopa)
and on Days 1, 7, 13, 27 and 30 of treatment using post hoc DVD analysis by a
trained rater, blind to the treatment day.
RESULTS: The neuropsychiatric-like behavior rating scale demonstrated high
interrater reliability between three trained raters of differing professional
backgrounds. As anticipated, animals exhibited a progressive increase in
levodopa-induced motor fluctuations, dyskinesia and wearing-off, that correlated 
with the duration of levodopa therapy. In contrast, levodopa-induced
neuropsychiatric-like behaviors were present on Day 1 of levodopa treatment and
their severity did not correlate with duration of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that neuropsychiatric disorders in PD are more
likely an interaction between levodopa and the disease state than a consequence
of sensitisation to repeated dopaminergic therapy.

DOI: 10.1017/s0317167100009707 
PMID: 20169779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Neurobiol Dis. 2009 Aug;35(2):184-92. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.11.010. Epub 2008
Dec 9.

Dopamine D3 receptor stimulation underlies the development of L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia in animal models of Parkinson's disease.

Visanji NP(1), Fox SH, Johnston T, Reyes G, Millan MJ, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, 399 Bathurst Street, MC11-419, Toronto,
Ontario M5T 2S8, Canada.

Development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a major problem in the
long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Sensitization to L-DOPA
correlates with ectopic expression of D3 dopamine receptors in the striatum,
implicating D3 receptors in development of LID. We demonstrate that the selective
D3 antagonist S33084 abolishes development of LID over 30 days in MPTP-lesioned
marmosets without effecting the anti-parkinsonian actions of L-DOPA. Furthermore,
following a 14 day washout, when challenged with L-DOPA in the absence of S33084,
these animals continued to exhibit reduced LID. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat,
S33084 similarly attenuated development of behavioural sensitization to L-DOPA.
Additionally, L-DOPA-induced elevations in striatal pre-proenkephalin-A (PPE-A)
(but not PPE-B, phospho[Thr(34)]DARPP-32, D1, and D2 receptor mRNA or D3 receptor
levels) were reduced in S33084 treated animals. Our data suggest a role for D3
receptors in the development of LID and suggest that initiating L-DOPA treatment 
with a D3 antagonist may reduce the development of LID in PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.11.010 
PMID: 19118628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Jul;26(1):171-7.

Striatal leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 mRNA is increased in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with L-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester-induced
dyskinesia.

Hurley MJ(1), Patel PH, Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences Research
Division, School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, King's College, London SE1
1UL, UK. michael.j.hurley@kcl.ac.uk

The level of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (Lrrk2) mRNA expression was measured by
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in anterior striatum from normal 
and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus) that had L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester
(L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia. The level of striatal Lrrk2 mRNA was increased in
MPTP-treated common marmosets that had L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia compared with
normal animals that did not receive l-DOPA. Marmosets that exhibited higher
levels of dyskinesia had the greatest increase in striatal Lrrk2 mRNA. Lrrk2 mRNA
expression was also measured in human striatum and substantia nigra from control 
subjects and patients dying with Parkinson's disease. In contrast to marmoset
tissue, no alteration in Lrrk2 mRNA expression was found in parkinsonian human
brain. However, the brain was from patients who had an overall low level of
dyskinesia. The correlation between striatal Lrrk2 mRNA levels in MPTP-treated
common marmoset striatum and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia indicates that LRRK2 may
have a role in the molecular alterations that cause L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05638.x 
PMID: 17614947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Mov Disord. 2007 Apr 15;22(5):715-9.

Antiparkinsonian activity of L-propyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide or
melanocyte-inhibiting factor in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Katzenschlager R(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, Stockwell K, Tayarani-Binazir KA, Zubair
M, Smith LA, Jenner P, Lees AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Reta Lila Weston Institute of Neurological Studies, University College London,
UK.

The neuropeptide melanocyte-inhibiting factor (MIF) or
L-propyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) has been reported in some studies to improve 
the motor signs of Parkinson's disease (PD) and in rodent models of PD. In this
study of oral and intravenous MIF in N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmosets, a wide range of doses of MIF administered alone (0.25,
1, 2, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg orally) did not increase locomotor activity, relieve motor 
disability, or induce dyskinesias. When MIF (1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg orally or 10 and
20 mg/kg intravenously) was administered concomitantly with levodopa/benserazide,
no significant differences in motor function or dyskinesias were observed
compared with levodopa/benserazide alone. The results of this first study of MIF 
in the marmoset MPTP model provide no encouragement for the reinvestigation of
MIF in the clinical management of the motor signs of PD.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21256 
PMID: 17373723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Mov Disord. 2006 Dec;21(12):2090-5.

Antiparkinsonian effects of the novel D3/D2 dopamine receptor agonist, S32504, in
MPTP-lesioned marmosets: Mediation by D2, not D3, dopamine receptors.

Hill MP(1), Ravenscroft P, McGuire SG, Brotchie JM, Crossman AR, Rochat C, Millan
MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience, Ltd., Manchester, United Kingdom. m.hill@motac.com

L-dopa remains the most common treatment for Parkinson's disease. However, there 
is considerable interest in D3/D2 receptor agonists such as the novel agent
S32504, since they exert antiparkinsonian properties in the absence of
dyskinesia. An important question concerns the roles of D2 vs. D3 receptors, an
issue we addressed with the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease. In L-dopa-primed
animals, S32504 (0.16-2.5 mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently enhanced locomotor
activity. This action was abolished by the D2 antagonist, L741,626 (2.5 mg/kg),
but potentiated by the D3 antagonist, S33084 (0.63 mg/kg). Both antagonists were 
inactive alone. In drug-naive animals, a maximally effective dose of S32504 (2.5 
mg/kg p.o.) displayed pronounced antiparkinsonian properties from the third day
of administration, and its actions were expressed rapidly and durably. Thus, on
day 33, antiparkinsonian properties of S32504 were apparent within 5 minutes and 
present for > 4 hours. Moreover, they were associated with neither wearing off
nor significant dyskinesia. In conclusion, the novel D3/D2 agonist S32504 may
offer advantages over L-dopa in the treatment of newly diagnosed parkinsonian
patients. Its actions are expressed primarily by activation of D2, not D3,
receptors.

Copyright 2006 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21106 
PMID: 16991143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Mov Disord. 2006 Nov;21(11):1879-91.

Pharmacological characterization of psychosis-like behavior in the MPTP-lesioned 
nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Visanji NP(1), Gomez-Ramirez J, Johnston TH, Pires D, Voon V, Brotchie JM, Fox
SH.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Investigation of the pathophysiology of psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD), as
well as the assessment of potential novel therapeutics, has been limited by the
lack of a well-validated animal model. MPTP-lesioned primates exhibit abnormal
behaviors that are distinct from dyskinesia and parkinsonism and may represent
behavioral correlates of neural processes related to psychosis in PD. Here we
assess four types of behavior--agitation, hallucinatory-like responses to
nonapparent stimuli, obsessive grooming, and stereotypies that are termed
"psychosis-like"--and define their pharmacology using a psychosis-like behavior
rating scale. By assessing the actions of drugs known to enhance or attenuate
psychosis in PD patients, we find that the pharmacology of these behaviors
recapitulates, in several respects, the pharmacology of psychosis in PD. Thus,
levodopa and apomorphine elicited psychosis-like behaviors. Amantadine
significantly decreased levodopa-induced dyskinesia but exacerbated
psychosis-like behaviors. Haloperidol reduced psychosis-like behaviors but at the
expense of increased parkinsonian disability while the atypical neuroleptics
clozapine and quetiapine reduced psychosis-like behaviors without significant
effect on parkinsonian disability. The response of different components of the
psychotomimetic behavior suggested the involvement of both dopaminergic and
nondopaminergic mechanisms in their expression.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21073 
PMID: 16960862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Mov Disord. 2006 Jun;21(6):839-46.

Histamine H3 receptor agonists reduce L-dopa-induced chorea, but not dystonia, in
the MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Gomez-Ramirez J(1), Johnston TH, Visanji NP, Fox SH, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a major complication of the treatment of 
Parkinson's disease. The neural mechanisms underlying LID are thought to involve 
overactivity of striatal glutamatergic neurotransmission, with resultant
underactivation of the output regions of the basal ganglia. Histamine H3
heteroreceptors can reduce glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)
transmission in the striatum and substantia nigra reticulata, respectively. Thus,
we tested whether the histamine H3 receptor agonists immepip and imetit can
alleviate LID in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.
Coadministration of immepip (1 mg/kg) with L-dopa (15 mg/kg) was associated with 
significantly less total dyskinesia than L-dopa alone. When dyskinesia was
separately rated as chorea and dystonia, coadministration of L-dopa with either
immepip or imetit (both 10 mg/kg) significantly reduced chorea but had no effect 
on dystonia. The antidyskinetic actions of the H3 agonists were not accompanied
by alteration of the antiparkinsonian actions of L-dopa. However, immepip (10
mg/kg), when administered as monotherapy, significantly increased parkinsonian
disability compared to vehicle. Overall, the results obtained in this study
suggest that histamine H3 receptors may be involved in the neural mechanisms
underlying L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.20828 
PMID: 16532454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Jun;21(12):3240-50.

Immunoautoradiographic analysis of NMDA receptor subunits and associated
postsynaptic density proteins in the brain of dyskinetic MPTP-treated common
marmosets.

Hurley MJ(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences Division,
School of Health and Life Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
michael.j.hurley@kcl.ac.uk

l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in
Parkinson's disease may result from aberrant glutamatergic stimulation of the
striatum due to synaptic plasticity in the motor cortex or striatum as a
consequence of adaptation of striatal output pathways. This might result from
changes in NMDA receptor subunit or NMDA receptor associated postsynaptic density
(PSD) scaffold protein expression. Using immunoautoradiography the expression
levels of NR1 and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor and the postsynaptic density
scaffold proteins, PSD-95, PSD-93, and neurofilament light (NFL) were examined in
normal common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned animals that
exhibited high or low levels of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Brains from
MPTP-lesioned animals that were not primed for l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia were not
included in this study. No alterations in the NR1 NMDA receptor subunit were
observed. The NR2B NMDA receptor subunit was increased in caudal caudate nucleus 
and putamen, hippocampus, cingulate motor area (CMA), supplementary motor area
(SMA) and dorsal primary motor cortex (dMI) of highly dyskinetic MPTP-lesioned
marmosets, but not in animals with low levels of dyskinesia. PSD-93 was decreased
in the globus pallidus of marmosets with high and low levels of dyskinesia and
increased in the CMA, SMA and dMI of highly dyskinetic marmosets. PSD-95 was
increased in the SMA of highly dyskinetic marmosets, but not in animals with low 
dyskinesia. NFL expression was elevated in the SMA and dorsal and ventral MI of
highly dyskinetic marmosets. These results suggest that l-DOPA treatment of
MPTP-lesioned marmosets can affect glutamatergic systems and indicate that
altered NMDA receptor function may relate to dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04169.x 
PMID: 16026462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Feb;21(4):841-54.

A modified MPTP treatment regime produces reproducible partial nigrostriatal
lesions in common marmosets.

Iravani MM(1), Syed E, Jackson MJ, Johnston LC, Smith LA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Standard MPTP treatment regimens in primates result in > 85% destruction of
nigral dopaminergic neurons and the onset of marked motor deficits that respond
to known symptomatic treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD). The extent of
nigral degeneration reflects the late stages of PD rather than events occurring
at its onset. We report on a modified MPTP treatment regimen that causes nigral
dopaminergic degeneration in common marmosets equivalent to that occurring at the
time of initiation of motor symptoms in man. Subcutaneous administration of MPTP 
1 mg/kg for 3 consecutive days caused a reproducible 60% loss of nigral tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells, which occurred mainly in the
calbindin-D(28k)-poor nigrosomes with a similar loss of TH-immunoreactivity
(TH-ir) in the caudate nucleus and the putamen. The animals showed obvious motor 
abnormalities with reduced bursts of activity and the onset of motor disability. 
However, the loss of striatal terminals did not reflect early PD because a
greater loss of TH-ir occurred in the caudate nucleus than in the putamen and a
marked reduction in TH-ir occurred in striatal patches compared to the matrix.
Examination of striatal fibres following a partial MPTP lesion showed a
conspicuous increase in the number and the diameter of large branching fibres in 
the putaminal and to some extent caudatal matrix, pointing to a possible
compensatory sprouting of dopaminergic terminals. In addition, these partially
lesioned animals did not respond to acute treatment with L-DOPA. This primate
partial lesions model may be useful for examining potential neuroprotective or
neurorestorative agents for PD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.03915.x 
PMID: 15787691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2004 Jul-Aug;27(4):171-7.

Levetiracetam Interferes With the L-dopa priming process in MPTP-lesioned
drug-naive marmosets.

Hill MP(1), Brotchie JM, Crossman AR, Bezard E, Michel A, Grimée R, Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience, Ltd., Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Levetiracetam (LEV; Keppra, UCB Pharma) has been shown to reduce
established l-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa)-induced dyskinesia. This study 
investigated whether LEV can modify induction of dyskinesia by l-dopa or the
process of priming.
METHODS: Drug-naive MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) -lesioned
marmosets were treated for 21 days with l-dopa/LEV or l-dopa alone. Subsequently,
the animals were left untreated for 1 week and then both groups were challenged
with a single dose of l-dopa alone on day 29. Behavior was assessed by automated 
activity counts and by post hoc analysis of videotapes using validated rating
scales.
RESULTS: LEV had no significant effect on the appearance of dyskinesia when
administered de novo in combination with l-dopa. However, after a week of drug
holiday, the 2 groups exhibited a different response to an acute l-dopa
challenge. Thus, animals previously treated with l-dopa alone exhibited a similar
level of dyskinesia to that seen on day 21 of the repeated treatment phase of the
study. However, animals previously treated with l-dopa/LEV demonstrated
significantly reduced dyskinesia compared with day 21 of the repeated treatment
phase of the study.
CONCLUSIONS: LEV does not modify the onset of dyskinesia following de novo
treatment with l-dopa. However, concomitant treatment with l-dopa/LEV reduces the
level of dyskinesia induced by l-dopa following a drug holiday. Thus, prior
treatment with LEV appears to modify the mechanisms responsible for the
maintenance of l-dopa-induced dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1097/01.wnf.0000135478.70905.3d 
PMID: 15319703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Exp Neurol. 2004 Aug;188(2):471-9.

The NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist CP-101,606 exacerbates L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia and provides mild potentiation of anti-parkinsonian effects of L-DOPA 
in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.

Nash JE(1), Ravenscroft P, McGuire S, Crossman AR, Menniti FS, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, ON, M5T 2S8 Canada.
jnash@uhnres.utoronto.ca

In Parkinson's disease (PD), degeneration of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal
pathway leads to enhanced transmission at NMDA receptors containing NR2B
subunits. Previous studies have shown that some, but not all, NR2B-containing
NMDA receptor antagonists alleviate parkinsonian symptoms in animal models of PD.
Furthermore, enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated transmission underlies the
generation of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). The subunit content of NMDA
receptors responsible for LID is not clear. Here, we assess the actions of the
NMDA antagonist CP-101,606 in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. CP-101,606 is selective
for NMDA receptors containing NR2B subunits, with higher affinity for NR1/NR2B
complexes compared to ternary NR1/NR2A/NR2B complexes. CP-101,606 had no
significant effect on parkinsonian symptoms when administered as monotherapy over
a range of doses (0.1-10 mg/kg). CP-101,606 provided a modest potentiation of the
anti-parkinsonian actions of L-DOPA (8 mg/kg), although, at doses of 1 and 3
mg/kg, CP-101,606 exacerbated LID. Results of this study provide further evidence
of differences in the anti-parkinsonian activity and effects on LID of the NR2B
subunit selective NMDA receptor antagonists. These distinctions may reflect
disparities in action on NR1/NR2B as opposed to NR1/NR2A/NR2B receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.05.004 
PMID: 15246846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Exp Neurol. 2004 Jul;188(1):128-38.

Selective blockade of D(3) dopamine receptors enhances the anti-parkinsonian
properties of ropinirole and levodopa in the MPTP-lesioned primate.

Silverdale MA(1), Nicholson SL, Ravenscroft P, Crossman AR, Millan MJ, Brotchie
JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

To date, the lack of highly selective antagonists at the dopamine D(3) receptor
has hampered clarification of their involvement in the actions of currently used 
therapies in Parkinson's disease. However, the novel benzopyranopyrrole, S33084, 
displays greater than 100-fold selectivity as an antagonist for D(3) versus D(2) 
receptors and all other sites tested. S33084 was administered to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmosets previously
primed with levodopa to elicit dyskinesia. Administered alone, S33084 exerted a
modest, but significant, anti-parkinsonian effect without provoking dyskinesia.
At low D(3)-selective doses (0.16 and 0.64 mg/kg), S33084 potentiated, though to 
different extents and in qualitatively different ways, the anti-parkinsonian
actions of both ropinirole and levodopa. At these doses, S33084 did not
significantly modify levodopa-induced or ropinirole-induced dyskinesia. These
data suggest that ropinirole and levodopa do not exert their anti-parkinsonian or
pro-dyskinetic actions via D(3) receptor stimulation. Indeed, stimulation of D(3)
receptors may be detrimental to the anti-parkinsonian properties of D(2)/D(3)
agonists. Selectivity for stimulation of D(2), over D(3), receptors may therefore
be a beneficial property of dopamine receptor agonists in management of motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease patients with established dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.03.022 
PMID: 15191809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2004 Jul;310(1):386-94. Epub 2004 Mar 5.

Levetiracetam potentiates the antidyskinetic action of amantadine in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate model of
Parkinson's disease.

Hill MP(1), Ravenscroft P, Bezard E, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM, Michel A, Grimée
R, Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience Ltd, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Levetiracetam (LEV) (Keppra; UCB Pharma, Brussels, Belgium) has recently been
reported to have antidyskinetic activity against levodopa (L-DOPA)-induced
dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned
marmoset and macaque models of Parkinson's disease. Amantadine is frequently used
as adjunctive therapy for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, but adverse effects limit
its clinical utility. The current study was designed to investigate whether LEV
can potentiate the antidyskinetic action of amantadine. The antiparkinsonian and 
antidyskinetic effects of LEV (13 and 60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 
and 0.3 mg/kg), administered alone and in combination, were assessed in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (n = 12). LEV (60
mg/kg) and amantadine (0.3 mg/kg) administered alone significantly reduced
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia without compromising the antiparkinsonian action of
l-DOPA. Lower doses were without any significant effects. The combination of LEV 
(60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg) significantly
decreased dyskinesia severity, without compromising the antiparkinsonian action
of L-DOPA, more efficaciously than LEV or amantadine monotherapy. These results
support the concept that normalization of different pathophysiological mechanisms
(i.e., altered synchronization between neurons and enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate 
transmission) has a greater efficacy. Combined LEV/amantadine therapy might be
useful as an adjunct to L-DOPA to treat dyskinetic side effects and to expand the
population of Parkinson's disease patients who benefit from treatment with
amantadine alone.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.104.066191 
PMID: 15004218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2004 Jun;309(3):921-35. Epub 2004 Feb 20.

S32504, a novel naphtoxazine agonist at dopamine D3/D2 receptors: II. Actions in 
rodent, primate, and cellular models of antiparkinsonian activity in comparison
to ropinirole.

Millan MJ(1), Di Cara B, Hill M, Jackson M, Joyce JN, Brotchie J, McGuire S,
Crossman A, Smith L, Jenner P, Gobert A, Peglion JL, Brocco M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Recherches Servier, Centre de Recherches de Croissy,
Psychopharmacology Department, Paris, France. mark.millan@fr.netgrs.com

These studies evaluated the potential antiparkinsonian properties of the novel
dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptor agonist S32504 [(+)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,
10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine] in comparison
with those of the clinically employed agonist ropinirole. In rats with a
unilateral, 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra, S32504 (0.0025-0.04
mg/kg, s.c.) more potently elicited contralateral rotation than S32601
[(-)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,
10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth-[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine (its less active
enantiomer)], ropinirole, and l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA). Rotation
elicited by S32504 was blocked by the D(2)/D(3) receptor antagonists haloperidol 
and raclopride and by the D(2) antagonist L741,626
[4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)piperidin-4-ol], but not by the D(3)
antagonist S33084
[(3aR,9bS)-N-[4-(8-cyano-1,3a,4,9b-tetrahydro-3H-benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyrrole-2-yl)-
butyl]-(4-phenyl)benzamide]. As assessed by dialysis in both lesioned and
nonlesioned animals, S32504 (0.04-2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) reduced striatal levels of
acetylcholine. This effect was blocked by raclopride, haloperidol, and L741,626
but not S33084. In rats treated with reserpine, hypolocomotion was reversed by
S32504 and, less potently, by ropinirole. In "unprimed" marmosets treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, both s.c. (0.01-0.04 mg/kg) and
p.o. (0.04-1.25 mg/kg) administration of S32504 dose-dependently and rapidly
(within 10 min) increased locomotor activity and reduced disability. Furthermore,
S32504 dose-dependently reversed bradykinesia and improved posture in
"L-DOPA-primed" animals, whereas eliciting less pronounced dyskinesia than
l-DOPA. Finally, in terminally differentiated SH-SY5Y cells presenting a
dopaminergic phenotype, S32504, but not S32601, abrogated the neurotoxic effects 
of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, an action inhibited by raclopride and S33084 but 
not L741,626. Ropinirole was weakly neuroprotective in this model. In conclusion,
S32504 displays potent and stereospecific activity in rodent, primate, and
cellular models of antiparkinsonian properties. Although activation of D(2)
receptors is crucial to the motor actions of S32504, engagement of D(3) receptors
contributes to its neuroprotective properties.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.103.062414 
PMID: 14978195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Mov Disord. 2003 Nov;18(11):1301-5.

Novel antiepileptic drug levetiracetam decreases dyskinesia elicited by L-dopa
and ropinirole in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Hill MP(1), Bezard E, McGuire SG, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM, Michel A, Grimée R,
Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience Ltd, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Long-term dopamine replacement therapy of Parkinson's disease leads to the
occurrence of dyskinesias. Altered firing patterns of neurons of the internal
globus pallidus, involving a pathological synchronization/desynchronization
process, may contribute significantly to the genesis of dyskinesia.
Levetiracetam, an antiepileptic drug that counteracts neuronal
(hyper)synchronization in animal models of epilepsy, was assessed in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease, after coadministration with 
(1) levodopa (L-dopa) or (2) ropinirole/L-dopa combination. Oral administration
of levetiracetam (13-60 mg/kg) in combination with either L-dopa (12 mg/kg) alone
or L-dopa (8 mg/kg)/ropinirole (1.25 mg/kg) treatments was associated with
significantly less dyskinesia, in comparison to L-dopa monotherapy during the
first hour after administration. Thus, new nondopaminergic treatment strategies
targeting normalization of abnormal firing patterns in basal ganglia structures
may prove useful as an adjunct to reduce dyskinesia induced by dopamine
replacement therapy without affecting its antiparkinsonian action.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10542 
PMID: 14639671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Exp Neurol. 2003 Jan;179(1):90-102.

Both short- and long-acting D-1/D-2 dopamine agonists induce less dyskinesia than
L-DOPA in the MPTP-lesioned common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Maratos EC(1), Jackson MJ, Pearce RK, Cannizzaro C, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, London SE1 1UL, United
Kingdom.

The current concept of dyskinesia is that pulsatile stimulation of D-1 or D-2
receptors by L-DOPA or short-acting dopamine agonists is more likely to induce
dyskinesia compared to long-acting drugs producing more continuous receptor
stimulation. We now investigate the ability of two mixed D-1/D-2 agonists, namely
pergolide (long-acting) and apomorphine (short-acting), to induce dyskinesia in
drug-nai;ve MPTP-lesioned primates, compared to L-DOPA. Adult common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were lesioned with MPTP (2 mg/kg/day sc for 5 days) and
subsequently treated with equieffective antiparkinsonian doses of L-DOPA,
apomorphine, or pergolide for 28 days. L-DOPA, apomorphine, and pergolide
reversed the MPTP-induced motor deficits to the same degree with no difference in
peak response. L-DOPA and apomorphine had a rapid onset of action and short
duration of effect producing a pulsatile motor response, while pergolide had a
slow onset and long-lasting activity producing a continuous profile of motor
stimulation. L-DOPA rapidly induced dyskinesia that increased markedly in
severity and frequency over the course of the study, impairing normal motor
activity by day 20. Dyskinesia in animals treated with pergolide or apomorphine
increased steadily, reaching mild to moderate severity but remaining
significantly less marked than that produced by L-DOPA. There was no difference
in the intensity of dyskinesia produced by apomorphine and pergolide. These data 
suggest that factors other than duration of drug action may be important in the
induction of dyskinesia but support the use of dopamine agonists in early
Parkinson's disease, as a means of delaying L-DOPA therapy and reducing the risk 
of developing dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2002.8055 
PMID: 12504871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Mov Disord. 2002 Nov;17(6):1180-7.

Stimulation of cannabinoid receptors reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the
MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Fox SH(1), Henry B, Hill M, Crossman A, Brotchie J.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, Division of Neuroscience, School of
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester, United
Kingdom. shfox@hotmail.com

Long-term treatment with levodopa in Parkinson's disease results in the
development of motor fluctuations, including reduced duration of antiparkinsonian
action and involuntary movements, i.e., levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Cannabinoid 
receptors are concentrated in the basal ganglia, and stimulation of cannabinoid
receptors can increase gamma-aminobutyric acid transmission in the lateral
segment of globus pallidus and reduce glutamate release in the striatum. We thus 
tested the hypothesis that the cannabinoid receptor agonist nabilone (0.01, 0.03,
and 0.10 mg/kg) would alleviate levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) -lesioned
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Coadministration of nabilone (0.1 mg/kg)
with levodopa was associated with significantly less total dyskinesia (dyskinesia
score, 12; range, 6-17; primate dyskinesia rating scale) than levodopa alone (22;
range, 14-23; P < 0.05). This effect was more marked during the onset period
(0-20 minutes post levodopa). There was no reduction in the antiparkinsonian
action of levodopa. Furthermore, the intermediate dose of nabilone used (0.03
mg/kg) increased the duration of antiparkinsonian action of levodopa by 76%.
Thus, cannabinoid receptor agonists may be useful in the treatment of motor
complications in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10289 
PMID: 12465055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2002 Oct;109(10):1295-307.

Naloxone reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesias and apomorphine-induced rotations
in primate models of parkinsonism.

Klintenberg R(1), Svenningsson P, Gunne L, Andrén PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, Biomedicum,
Uppsala, Sweden.

Using in situ hybridization, it was found that subchronic treatment with
levodopa/benserazide increased preproenkephalin-A and preproenkephalin-B mRNAs in
the dopamine-depleted striatum. In order to examine whether dysfunction of the
endogenous opioid system may underlie the development of levodopa-induced
dyskinesias, the effect of naloxone, an opioid antagonist, on dyskinesias was
investigated in two models of parkinsonism in the common marmoset. MPTP-treated
monkeys were administered a daily oral dose of levodopa/benserazide which
relieved the parkinsonian symptoms but induced severe and reproducible dyskinetic
movements. Naloxone (0.1, 0.2 or 0.5 mg/kg) was given subcutaneously (s.c.)
during peak-dose dyskinesia, which reduced the dyskinesias significantly using
the highest dose, normalized the motor activity, but did not modify the
antiparkinson effect. Unilaterally 6-OHDA -lesioned marmosets received
apomorphine s.c., which caused a contralateral turning behavior that could be
reduced up to 35 percent by concomitant administration of naloxone. Taken
together the present results suggest a possible role for the endogenous opioid
system in the pathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-002-0715-6 
PMID: 12373562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Mov Disord. 2002 Sep;17(5):887-901.

Repeated administration of piribedil induces less dyskinesia than L-dopa in
MPTP-treated common marmosets: a behavioural and biochemical investigation.

Smith LA(1), Tel BC, Jackson MJ, Hansard MJ, Braceras R, Bonhomme C,
Chezaubernard C, Del Signore S, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Piribedil ([1-(3,4-methylenedioxybenzyl)-4-(2-pyrimidinyl)piperazine]; S 4200) is
a dopamine agonist with equal affinity for D(2)/D(3) dopamine receptors effective
in treating Parkinson's disease as monotherapy or as an adjunct to levodopa
(L-dopa). However, its ability to prime basal ganglia for the appearance of
dyskinesia is unknown. We now report on the ability of repeated administration of
piribedil to induce dyskinesia in drug naïve
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) -lesioned common marmosets
compared with L-dopa and its actions on the direct and indirect striatal outflow 
pathways. Administration of piribedil (4.0-5.0 mg/kg orally) or L-dopa (12.5
mg/kg orally plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg orally twice daily) produced equivalent
increases in locomotor activity and reversal of motor deficits over a 28-day
study period. Administration of L-dopa resulted in the progressive development of
marked dyskinesia over the period of study. In contrast, administration of
piribedil produced a significantly lower degree and intensity of dyskinesia.
Surprisingly, piribedil caused an increase in vigilance and alertness compared to
L-dopa, which may relate to the recently discovered alpha(2)-noradrenergic
antagonist properties of piribedil. The behavioural differences between piribedil
and L-dopa are reflected in the biochemical changes associated with the direct
striatal output pathway. Administration of L-dopa or piribedil did not reverse
the MPTP-induced up-regulation of preproenkephalin A mRNA in rostral or caudal
areas of the putamen or caudate nucleus. In contrast, administration of either
piribedil or L-dopa reversed the downregulation of preprotachykinin mRNA induced 
by MPTP in rostral and caudal striatum. L-dopa, but not Piribedil, reversed the
decrease in preproenkephalin B mRNA produced by MPTP treatment.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10200 
PMID: 12360537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 Dec;14(11):1827-32.

Increased cannabinoid CB1 receptor binding and activation of GTP-binding proteins
in the basal ganglia of patients with Parkinson's syndrome and of MPTP-treated
marmosets.

Lastres-Becker I(1), Cebeira M, de Ceballos ML, Zeng BY, Jenner P, Ramos JA,
Fernández-Ruiz JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine,
Complutense University, 28040 Madrid, Spain.

Recent evidence obtained in rat models of Parkinson's disease showed that the
density of cannabinoid CB1 receptors and their endogenous ligands increase in
basal ganglia. However, no data exists from post-mortem brain of humans affected 
by Parkinson's disease or from primate models of the disorder. In the present
study, we examined CB1 receptor binding and the magnitude of the stimulation by
WIN55,212-2, a specific CB1 receptor agonist, of [35S]GTPgammaS binding to
membrane fractions from the basal ganglia of patients affected by Parkinson's
disease. In Parkinson's disease, WIN55,212-2-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in
the caudate nucleus, putamen, lateral globus pallidus and substantia nigra was
increased, thus indicating a more effective activation of GTP-binding
protein-coupled signalling mechanisms via CB1 receptors. This was accompanied by 
an increase in CB1 receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and the putamen,
although no changes were observed in the lateral globus pallidus and the
substantia nigra. Because Parkinson's disease patients had been chronically
treated with l-DOPA, brains were studied from normal common marmosets and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated animals with and
without chronic L-DOPA treatment. MPTP-lesioned marmosets had increased CB1
receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and the putamen compared to control
marmosets, as well as increased stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding by
WIN55,212-2. However, following l-DOPA treatment these parameters returned
towards control values. The results indicate that a nigro-striatal lesion is
associated with an increase in CB1 receptors in the basal ganglia in humans and
nonhuman primates and that this increase could be reversed by chronic l-DOPA
therapy. The data suggest that CB1 receptor blockade might be useful as an
adjuvant for the treatment of parkinsonian motor symptoms.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01812.x 
PMID: 11860478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Exp Neurol. 2001 Sep;171(1):139-46.

Mu- and delta-opioid receptor antagonists reduce levodopa-induced dyskinesia in
the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Henry B(1), Fox SH, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, 1.124 Division of Neuroscience,
School of Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Stopford Building,
Manchester, M13 9PT, United Kingdom.

Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease with levodopa is complicated by the
emergence of involuntary movements, known as levodopa-induced dyskinesia. It has 
been hypothesized that increased opioid transmission in striatal output pathways 
may be responsible for the generation of dyskinesia. In this study, we have
investigated the effect of blockade of opioid peptide transmission on
levodopa-induced dyskinesia in a primate model of Parkinson's disease-the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset. Coadministration of nonselective and mu- or
delta-subtype-selective opioid receptor antagonists with levodopa resulted in a
significant decrease in dyskinesia. There was no attenuation of the
anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa. These data suggest that specific mu- or
delta-opioid receptor antagonists might be applicable clinically in the treatment
of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2001.7727 
PMID: 11520128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Mov Disord. 2001 Jul;16(4):642-50.

Neural mechanisms underlying peak-dose dyskinesia induced by levodopa and
apomorphine are distinct: evidence from the effects of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor 
antagonist idazoxan.

Fox SH(1), Henry B, Hill MP, Peggs D, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Walton Centre for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Liverpool, United Kingdom.

Dyskinesia, secondary to dopamine replacement therapy, is the major complication 
of currently available therapies for Parkinson's disease. Alpha(2) adrenoceptor
antagonists, such as idazoxan, can significantly reduce levodopa-induced
dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned,
nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease and in human. This action of
adrenoceptor antagonists may involve blockade of the actions of noradrenaline
synthesised from levodopa. We hypothesise that, because dopamine receptor
agonists, such as apomorphine, cannot be metabolised to produce noradrenaline,
activation of adrenoceptors may not be involved in dyskinesia produced by such
agents. If this were the case, idazoxan would not be expected to reduce
apomorphine-induced dyskinesia. MPTP-lesioned marmosets with stable dyskinesia
induced by prolonged levodopa therapy were given an acute challenge with
apomorphine (0.3 mg/kg subcutaneously) or levodopa (8.0 mg/kg orally), these
doses produced equivalent peak-dose dyskinesia. Idazoxan (2.5 mg/kg p.o.), or
vehicle, was then administered with either apomorphine or levodopa. Idazoxan
abolished levodopa-induced dyskinesia but did not affect apomorphine-induced
dyskinesia (P < 0.05 and P > 0.05, respectively, Wilcoxon matched pairs test).
Idazoxan also extended the anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa but did not
affect those of apomorphine. The pharmacological characteristics of the neural
mechanisms underlying levodopa-induced dyskinesia and apomorphine-induced
dyskinesia in parkinsonism thus appear to be distinct, at least with respect to
the involvement of alpha(2) adrenoceptors. Specifically, levodopa, but not
apomorphine-induced dyskinesia, involves activation of adrenoceptors. This
finding may have major implications for understanding dyskinesia and should be
borne in mind when designing clinical studies in which levodopa or dopamine
receptor agonist challenges are employed to assess potential anti-dyskinetic
properties of drugs.

Copyright 2001 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.1148 
PMID: 11481687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Mov Disord. 2001 Jul;16(4):631-41.

Antiparkinsonian activity and dyskinesia risk of ropinirole and L-DOPA
combination therapy in drug naïve MPTP-lesioned common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Maratos EC(1), Jackson MJ, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

De novo administration of long-acting dopamine agonists, such as ropinirole, to
patients with Parkinson's disease or to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated subhuman primates
produces a lower incidence of dyskinesia than occurs with L-DOPA. This study
compares the intensity of dyskinesia produced by combinations of L-DOPA and
ropinirole and by these drugs alone, using the MPTP-treated common marmoset model
of Parkinson's disease. The objective is to determine the optimum therapeutic
strategy for the long-term control of Parkinson's disease with a minimal risk of 
dyskinesia. MPTP-treated marmosets received either L-DOPA alone, ropinirole
alone, or one of two combinations of these drugs (either L-DOPA dominant or
ropinirole dominant) daily for 28 days in doses titrated to produce a similar
improvement in disability and increase in locomotion. In the group receiving
L-DOPA alone, there was a trend for peak dose locomotor activity to increase and 
the duration of drug effect to decline over the period of the study. L-DOPA alone
induced marked dyskinesia over the period of treatment, in contrast to ropinirole
which produced a low intensity of involuntary movements. The L-DOPA dominant
combination initially produced little dyskinesia, but this became increasingly
intense as the study progressed. In contrast, the ropinirole dominant combination
produced no greater intensity of dyskinesia than was produced by ropinirole
alone. These data suggest that in early Parkinson's disease, the use of
ropinirole alone or in combination with a low-dose L-DOPA might delay the
induction of dyskinesias while improving motor performance.

Copyright 2001 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.1149 
PMID: 11481686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Exp Neurol. 2000 Sep;165(1):136-42.

Antiparkinsonian actions of ifenprodil in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of
Parkinson's disease.

Nash JE(1), Fox SH, Henry B, Hill MP, Peggs D, McGuire S, Maneuf Y, Hille C,
Brotchie JM, Crossman AR.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, Room 1.124, Division of Neuroscience,
School of Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester,
M13 9PT, United Kingdom.

Dopamine-replacement strategies form the basis of most symptomatic treatments for
Parkinson's disease. However, since long-term dopamine-replacement therapies are 
characterized by many side effects, most notably dyskinesia, the concept of a
nondopaminergic therapy for Parkinson's disease has attracted great interest. To 
date, it has proved difficult to devise a nondopaminergic therapy with efficacy
comparable to that of dopamine replacement. In animal models of Parkinson's
disease, loss of striatal dopamine leads to enhanced excitation of striatal
NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. This is responsible, in part at least, for
generating parkinsonian symptoms. Here we demonstrate that, in the MPTP-lesioned 
marmoset, monotherapy with the NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist,
ifenprodil, administered de novo, has antiparkinsonian effects equivalent to
those of l-DOPA (administered as its methyl ester form). In MPTP-lesioned
marmosets, median mobility scores, following vehicle-treatment were 12.5/h (range
6-21), compared to 61/h (range 26-121) in normal, non-MPTP-lesioned animals.
Following ifenprodil (10 mg/kg) treatment in MPTP-lesioned marmosets, the median 
mobility score was 66/h (range 34-93), and following l-DOPA (10 mg/kg i.p.)
treatment 89/h (range 82-92). The data support the proposal that NR2B-selective
NMDA receptor antagonists have potential as a nondopaminergic monotherapy for the
treatment of parkinsonian symptoms when given de novo.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7444 
PMID: 10964492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 1999;106(7-8):663-83.

Chronic supranigral infusion of BDNF in normal and MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Pearce RK(1), Costa S, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Biomedical Sciences Division,
King's College London, and The National Hospital for Neurology, United Kingdom.

BDNF or vehicle were administered by unilateral supranigral infusion in normal
and chronically lesioned MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) for
four weeks and locomotor activity, disability and response to apomorphine were
assessed with nigral TH, GFAP and GAD immunoreactivity and striatal [3H]mazindol 
autoradiography. Selective contraversive orientation and ipsilateral neglect
evolved in MPTP-treated marmosets receiving BDNF with no significant difference
in disability or locomotor activity when compared to the vehicle-infused group.
Apomorphine produced an ipsiversive rotational bias in BDNF-treated animals. In
normal animals infused with BDNF contralateral neglect, ipsiversive turning,
postural instability and ataxia rapidly evolved. In MPTP-treated marmosets BDNF
caused increased ipsilateral striatal [3H]mazindol binding with increased somatic
size and staining intensity in GAD-immunoreactive cells and a 10-20% loss of
nigral TH-immunoreactive cells with increased GFAP staining. In normal common
marmosets, both vehicle and BDNF infusion decreased nigral TH-immunoreactivity.
Chronic supranigral infusion of BDNF alters motor behaviour and spatial attention
in MPTP-treated marmosets which may reflect altered function in residual nigral
dopaminergic neurons and brainstem GABAergic neurons and in normal animals
produces behavioural and histological signs of nigrostriatal hypofunction.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020050188 
PMID: 10907726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Mov Disord. 1999 Sep;14(5):744-53.

The alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist idazoxan reduces dyskinesia and
enhances anti-parkinsonian actions of L-dopa in the MPTP-lesioned primate model
of Parkinson's disease.

Henry B(1), Fox SH, Peggs D, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Organon Laboratories Limited, Department of Pharmacology, Lanarkshire,
Scotland, UK.

Dopamine replacement therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease is plagued by
the emergence of abnormal involuntary movements known as L-dopa-induced
dyskinesias. It has been demonstrated that yohimbine can reduce L-dopa-induced
dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease. Yohimbine
is, among other things, an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist. In this study,
we demonstrate that the selective and potent alpha2-adrenergic receptor
antagonist idazoxan reduces L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. The alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonists
rauwolscine and yohimbine also reduce L-dopa-induced dyskinesia. Furthermore, we 
demonstrate that coadministration of idazoxan with L-dopa can provide an
anti-parkinsonian action more than twice the length of that seen with L-dopa
alone. However, idazoxan as a monotherapy displayed no anti-parkinsonian actions.
We propose that idazoxan in combination with L-dopa may provide a novel approach 
to the treatment of Parkinson's disease that will not only reduce the dyskinetic 
side effects, but extend the anti-parkinsonian actions of L-dopa. Idazoxan, as an
adjunct to dopamine replacement, may prove useful in the treatment of
parkinsonian patients at all stages of disease progression.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8257(199909)14:5<744::aid-mds1006>3.0.co;2-7 
PMID: 10495035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1999 Feb;142(1):51-60.

Actions of the D1 agonists A-77636 and A-86929 on locomotion and dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated L-dopa-primed common marmosets.

Pearce RK(1), Jackson M, Britton DR, Shiosaki K, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Clinical Neurology, Institute of Neurology, The
National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, UK.

Common marmosets show parkinsonian motor deficits following
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) administration and develop
dyskinesias during chronic L-dopa exposure. The D1 agonists A-77636 [(1R, 3S)
3-(1'-adamantyl)-1-aminomethyl-3, 4-dihydro-5, 6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benzopyran HCl]
and A-86929 [(-)-trans 9, 10-hydroxy-2-propyl-4, 5, 5a, 6, 7,
11b-hexahydro-3-thia-5-azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride] possess
potent antiparkinsonian activity in the MPTP-treated marmoset and we now assess
their influence on L-dopa-induced dyskinesias. MPTP-treated marmosets with stable
motor deficits were treated with L-dopa plus carbidopa for 28 days to induce
dyskinesias. Subsequently, they received A-86929 for 10 days, initially at 0.5
micromol/kg and then at 1.0 micromol/kg for a further 5 days. Several months
later, L-dopa 12.5 mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg was given orally twice daily
for 7 days, followed by A-77636 1 micromol/kg for 10 days, and then both A-77636 
and L-dopa plus carbidopa were given concurrently for 3 further days. In these
L-dopa-primed animals, A-86929 effectively reversed akinesia and produced
dose-dependent dyskinesias which were significantly less intense than those
produced by L-dopa administration. A degree of behavioral tolerance was
encountered, but antiparkinsonian activity was preserved and elicited behaviour
was free of hyperkinesis and stereotypy and more naturalistic than that seen with
L-dopa. After a week of twice-daily L-dopa dosing, administration of the
long-acting D1 agonist A-77636 initially dramatically enhanced locomotion and
reproduced dyskinesia with prominent dystonia, but after repeated administration 
of A-77636, dyskinesia and in particular chorea, gradually disappeared. Tolerance
to locomotor stimulation greater than with A-86929 occurred, although activity
remained significantly above baseline levels. There was a marked reduction in
L-dopa-induced climbing, stereotypy and hyperkinesis and behaviour more closely
resembled that of normal unlesioned marmosets. Upon reintroduction of L-dopa
concurrently with continued A-77636 administration, dystonic, but virtually no
choreic dyskinesias appeared and behaviour was once again free of stereotypy and 
hyperkinesis, contrasting dramatically with the presence of these behaviours
along with abundant chorea when L-dopa is given alone. These results show a
lesser liability of A-86929 and A-77636 to reproduce dyskinesia in L-dopa-primed 
MPTP-lesioned subjects while maintaining effective antiparkinsonian activity and 
producing a more naturalistic motor response. The differential effects of A-77636
on chorea and dystonia, with suppression of chorea and stereotypy on
co-administration with L-dopa, may reflect an altered balance of activity in the 
direct and indirect striatofugal pathways. These results suggest a possible role 
for D1 agonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s002130050861 
PMID: 10102782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Brain Res. 1997 Sep 5;767(2):235-8.

Increased dopamine turnover in the putamen after MPTP treatment in common
marmosets.

Nomoto M(1), Iwata SI, Kaseda S, Fukuda T, Nakagawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine,
Sakuragaoka, Japan.

The differences in dopamine turnover rate between the putamen and the caudate
nucleus in the striatum lesioned by a neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) were studied in the common
marmoset, a small New World monkey. Systemic administration of MPTP damaged
equally and dose-dependently nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons projecting both
to the caudate nucleus and the putamen. The compensatory increase of dopamine
turnover, however, occurred more prominently in the putamen than in the caudate. 
The neural connection and function of the caudate nucleus and the putamen have
been differentiated anatomically or physiologically. The compensatory increase of
dopamine turnover rate is another different aspect of functions between the
caudate nucleus and the putamen. Dopaminergic neurons projecting to the putamen
showed more prominent cell loss than those projecting to the caudate in
Parkinson's disease or related disorders. The selective augmented turnover rate
of lesioned dopaminergic neurons might be, at least partly, involved with
selective degeneration of nigrostriatal neurons projecting to the putamen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)00584-2 
PMID: 9367253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Neuroreport. 1997 Jul 28;8(11):2567-70.

(-)-OSU 6162 inhibits levodopa-induced dyskinesias in a monkey model of
Parkinson's disease.

Ekesbo A(1), Andrén PE, Gunne LM, Tedroff J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

We have studied the effects of two D2 dopamine receptor-selective compounds,
(-)-OSU 6162 and raclopride, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). Three monkeys developed a severe parkinsonian syndrome
following administration of MPTP. In response to daily levodopa treatment the
animals developed reproducible and idiosyncratic peak-dose dyskinesias.
Pretreatment with (-)-OSU 6162 and raclopride, in doses increased by multiples of
three, both dose-dependently relieved the levodopa-induced dyskinesias. However, 
in contrast to when raclopride pretreatment was given, (-)-OSU 6162 pretreatment 
did not induce akinesia. Our investigation suggests that (-)-OSU 6162 may be
useful an an adjuvant treatment to levodopa in advanced Parkinson's disease to
selectively combat levodopa-induced dyskinesias without affecting the
antiparkinsonian response.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199707280-00029 
PMID: 9261828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1996 Jan;276(1):150-60.

ABT-431: the diacetyl prodrug of A-86929, a potent and selective dopamine D1
receptor agonist: in vitro characterization and effects in animal models of
Parkinson's disease.

Shiosaki K(1), Jenner P, Asin KE, Britton DR, Lin CW, Michaelides M, Smith L,
Bianchi B, Didomenico S, Hodges L, Hong Y, Mahan L, Mikusa J, Miller T, Nikkel A,
Stashko M, Witte D, Williams M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Products Division, Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois, 
USA.

(-)-Trans 9,10-hydroxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-3-thia-5-
azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride (A-86929) is a potent and
selective full agonist at the dopamine (DA) D1-like receptor. Judging by its
binding affinities to the D1 and D2 classes of receptors, the compound is
approximately 20-fold D1 receptor-selective, whereas relative potencies based on 
functional in vitro assays indicate that A-86929 is greater than 400-fold
D1-selective. A-86929 has moderate to weak (Ki > 1 microM) affinity at other
monoaminergic and peptidergic receptors, at ion channels and at monoamine uptake 
sites. The catechol of A-86929 was bis-acetylated to produce the prodrug,
(-)-trans 9,10-acetoxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11-b-hexahydro-3-thia-
5-azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride (ABT-431), which is more
chemically stable yet is rapidly converted to the parent compound with a
half-life of less than 1 min in plasma. Both A-86929 and ABT-431 produced
contralateral rotation in rats bearing unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, with
ED50 values of 0.24 mumol/kg s.c. and 0.54 mumol/kg s.c., respectively. A-86929
and ABT-431 improved behavioral disability scores and increased locomotor
activity in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmoset
model of Parkinson's disease in a dose-dependent manner (the minimum effective
dose was 0.10 mumol/kg s.c.). When administered three times daily for 30
consecutive days to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned
marmosets, A-86929 significantly improved disability scores throughout the
duration of the study. Current Parkinson's disease therapy includes L-dopa, which
stimulates both classes of DA receptors by virtue of its conversion to DA in
vivo, and direct-acting D2-selective agonists. Stimulation of the D2 receptor,
which is associated with all current DA agonist-based therapies, may contribute
to their dose-limiting side effects. An agent such as A-86929 (or its prodrug
ABT-431), which selectively stimulates the D1 receptor, may represent a novel
mechanism for Parkinson's disease therapy with the potential for an improved
side-effect profile and, consequently, improved patient compliance.


PMID: 8558425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1995 Feb;117(3):287-97.

The differential behavioural effects of benzazepine D1 dopamine agonists with
varying efficacies, co-administered with quinpirole in primate and rodent models 
of Parkinson's disease.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society, Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, U.K.

The effects of co-administration of quinpirole with benzazepine D1 dopamine (DA) 
agonists possessing full/supramaximal (SKF 80723 and SKF 82958), partial (SKF
38393 and SKF 75670) and no efficacies (SKF 83959) in stimulating adenylate
cyclase (AC) were investigated in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's
disease (PD). In rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the 
medial forebrain bundle, co-administration of SKF 38393
(7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine), SKF 75670 (3-CH3
analogue), SKF 80723 (6-Br analogue), SKF 83959 (6-Cl, 3-CH3, 3'-CH3 analogue)
and SKF 82958 (6-Cl, 3-C3H5 analogue) strongly potentiated the contralateral
circling induced by quinpirole. In MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) treated common marmosets,
administration of quinpirole alone increased locomotor activity and reversed
motor deficits. Grooming and oral activity were unaltered. Co-administration of
SKF 38393 and SKF 75670 inhibited the quinpirole-induced changes in locomotor
activity and motor disability. The combined treatment of SKF 80723 or SKF 82958
with quinpirole had no overall effect on locomotor activity or motor disability. 
In contrast, SKF 83959 extended the duration of the quinpirole-induced increase
in locomotor activity with corresponding decreases in motor disability.
Co-administration of high doses of SKF 82958 and more especially SKF 83959 and
SKF 80723, with quinpirole induced hyperexcitability and seizures. Oral activity 
and grooming were unaltered following the co-administration of benzazepine
derivatives with quinpirole. The ability of some benzazepine D1 DA agonists to
prolong the antiparkinsonian effects of quinpirole in the MPTP-treated marmoset
may indicate a role for certain D1 DA agonists in the clinical treatment of PD.
In general, the behavioural responses to the combined administration of
benzazepines with quinpirole in the 6-OHDA lesioned rat and more especially the
MPTP-treated marmoset failed to correlate with their ability to stimulate AC.
These observations further implicate a behavioural role for D1 DA receptors not
linked to AC.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02246103 
PMID: 7770604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1995 Feb;117(4):403-12.

Selective dopamine antagonist pretreatment on the antiparkinsonian effects of
benzazepine D1 dopamine agonists in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's
disease--the differential effects of D1 dopamine antagonists in the primate.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, UK.

In rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the medial
forebrain bundle, pretreatment with the D1 DA antagonists, SCH 23390
(7-chloro-8-hydroxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin e) and
A66359 (1- 2-bromo-4,5-dimethoxybenzyl]-7-hydroxy-6-methoxy-2-methyl- 1,2,3,4
tetrahydroisoquinoline), but not the D2 DA antagonist raclopride inhibited the
contralateral circling induced by the benzazepine D1 DA agonists SKF 38393 (7-H, 
3-H analogue of SCH 23390), SKF 80723 (7-H, 3-H, 6-Br analogue) and SKF 83959
(7-H, 6-Cl, 3'-CH3 analogue). In MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) treated common marmosets,
administration of SKF 80723 and SKF 83959 increased locomotor activity and
reversed the motor disability. Grooming and oral activities were also increased. 
Pretreatment with SCH 23390 and A66359 inhibited all the behavioural changes
induced by both D1 DA agonists. In general, higher doses of A66359 and more
especially SCH 23390 were needed to inhibit SKF 83959 and SKF 80723 induced
increases in oral activity and grooming than locomotor activity. Raclopride
pretreatment did not affect SKF 83959 and SKF 80723 induced oral activity and
grooming, though it reduced the duration of the locomotor changes induced by the 
D1 DA agonists. These findings demonstrate that the behavioural effects of
benzazepine D1 DA agonists in the 6-OHDA lesioned rat and MPTP-treated marmoset
are mediated by D1 DA receptor sites, although in the primate, stimulation of D2 
DA receptors by endogenous DA may be necessary in facilitating the
antiparkinsonian effects of D1 DA agonists. The differential sensitivities of
locomotor/motor disability and oral/grooming behaviours to antagonism by D1 DA
antagonists may indicate the involvement of multiple D1 DA receptor subtypes in
mediating benzazepine D1 DA agonist induced behaviours in the MPTP-treated
marmoset.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02246211 
PMID: 7604140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Eur J Pharmacol. 1992 Dec 15;229(2-3):203-9.

A-77636: a potent and selective dopamine D1 receptor agonist with
antiparkinsonian activity in marmosets.

Kebabian JW(1), Britton DR, DeNinno MP, Perner R, Smith L, Jenner P, Schoenleber 
R, Williams M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Products Division, Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL 60064.

A-77636, ((1R,3S)
3-(1'-adamantyl)-1-aminomethyl-3,4-dihydro-5,6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benz opyran
hydrochloride), is a selective dopamine D1 receptor agonist. In a battery of
receptor binding assays, A-77636 shows the highest affinity (pKi = 7.40 +/- 0.09;
Ki = 39.8 nM) for the dopamine D1 receptor. A-77636 is an agonist at the dopamine
D1 receptors in the fish retina (pEC50 = 8.13; EC50 = 1.1 nM; intrinsic activity 
= 102% of dopamine) and the rat caudate-putamen (pEC50 = 8.97; intrinsic activity
= 134% of dopamine). The compound is functionally inactive at dopamine D2
receptors (EC50 > 10 microM). In rats with unilateral 6-OHDA (6-hydroxydopamine) 
lesions of the nigro-striatal dopaminergic pathway, A-77636 elicits prolonged (> 
20 h) contralateral turning that is blocked by SCH 23390, a D1 receptor
antagonist, but not by haloperidol at doses selective for the dopamine D2
receptor. Higher doses of A-77636 produce forelimb clonus in rats and mice. When 
tested in marmosets treated with MPTP to induce a parkinsonian-like state,
A-77636 increases locomotor activity and decreases the severity of the
parkinsonian-like symptoms: the compound is active after either subcutaneous or
oral administration. A-77641, the optical antipode of A-77636, has a lower
affinity towards the dopamine D1 receptor (pKi = 5.14, Ki = 7200 nM), is less
potent as a dopamine D1 receptor agonist (pEC50 = 5.65; EC50 = 2200 nM), fails to
elicit turning in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat, and lacks antiparkinsonian efficacy in
the MPTP-treated marmoset.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(92)90556-j 
PMID: 1362704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1991 Oct;259(1):345-55.

FCE 23884, substrate-dependent interaction with the dopaminergic system. I.
Preclinical behavioral studies.

Buonamici M(1), Mantegani S, Cervini MA, Maj R, Rossi AC, Caccia C, Carfagna N,
Carminati P, Fariello RG.

Author information: 
(1)R&D Farmitalia Carlo Erba-Erbamont Group, Central Nervous System Department,
Nerviano, MI, Italy.

FCE 23884, a newly synthetized ergoline derivative, shows dopamine (DA) agonist
or antagonist properties depending on the functional state of the biological
substrate. The compound behaves as a full DA antagonist in normal animals, but
shows full agonist properties in denervated models in the same dose range. In
normal animals, FCE 23884 impairs Sidmans avoidance in rats, reduces spontaneous 
locomotion in mice and monkeys and antagonizes apomorphine-induced climbing
behavior in mice, yawning in rats, emesis in dogs and amphetamine-induced
toxicity in grouped mice. After experimental procedures resulting in severe DA
depletion, FCE 23884 behaves as a powerful DA-agonist mainly at D-1 receptors.
FCE 23884 induces contralateral turning behavior in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned
rats and reverses 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced akinesia
in monkeys and reserpine-induced hypokinesia in mice. These results indicate that
the antagonist or agonist activity of FCE 23884 is substrate-dependent and mostly
related to the presence or absence of DA. This leads to the apparently
paradoxical suggestion that the compound could be useful both in psychotic states
and extrapyramidal diseases, i.e., in clinical conditions characterized by either
excessive or impaired DAergic neurotransmission.


PMID: 1681087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

