

1002. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2016 Oct;40:155-160. doi: 10.1016/j.conb.2016.07.016. Epub
2016 Aug 13.

The autonomic nervous system is the engine for vocal development through social
feedback.

Ghazanfar AA(1), Zhang YS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
Electronic address: asifg@princeton.edu.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.

At least one non-human primate species-the marmoset monkey-exhibits developmental
processes similar to human vocal development. These processes include
babbling-like early vocal output and a role for social feedback in changing this 
output into mature-sounding vocalizations. Such parallel behaviors provide a
window through which we can begin to understand the physiological mechanisms for 
how early vocalizations are produced and shaped by social feedback. The latest
work shows that the acoustic structure of babbling in infant monkeys is driven by
oscillations of the autonomic nervous system. It is hypothesized that this
autonomic nervous system rhythm is perturbed through vocal interactions between
infants and parents. These interactions gradually accelerate the transformation
of immature vocalizations into mature forms.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.conb.2016.07.016 
PMCID: PMC5056855
PMID: 27525350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. Am J Primatol. 2017 Feb;79(2):1-12. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22587. Epub 2016 Aug 12.

Application of PE-RADSeq to the study of genomic diversity and divergence of two 
Brazilian marmoset species (Callithrix jacchus and C. penicillata).

Malukiewicz J(1)(2), Guschanski K(3), Grativol AD(4), Oliveira MA(5),
Ruiz-Miranda CR(4), Stone AC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, Viçosa, MG, Brazil.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona.
(3)Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,
Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Laboratório de Ciências Ambientais, Centro de Biociências e Biotecnologia,
Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense, Campos dos Goytacazes, RJ, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal, Universidade Federal Rural de 
Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(6)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona.

Callithrix jacchus and C. penicillata are among the smallest anthropoid primates,
are highly specialized tree gougers, and largely occupy Brazil's most extreme,
semi-arid biomes. However, the underlying genomic factors that underpin the
evolution of these species and their unique traits are under-investigated.
Additionally, exotic populations of these two species are widely established
throughout Brazil and hybridize with threatened native congers. Thus, both
genomic and conservation factors call for a better understanding of C. jacchus
and C. penicillata evolution. Here, we applied PE-RADseq to characterize genomic 
variation in these two species, using six C. jacchus and seven C. penicillata
individuals. We identified an average of 7,463 and 5,180 SNPs/individual in C.
penicillata and C. jacchus, respectively, and also found 1,395 variable sites
that were represented in both species. C. penicillata showed overall higher
levels of genetic diversity than C. jacchus at the variable sites present in both
species. Additionally, among these variable sites, 106 showed relative
interspecific divergence levels that were significantly higher than the
genome-wide average. We further compared relative and absolute divergence for C. 
penicillata and C. jacchus between RAD loci associated with the 106 significantly
diverged variable sites and all other RAD loci present in both species. The
former RAD loci set showed significantly elevated relative and absolute
divergence measures in comparison to the latter set. This convergence suggests
that C. jacchus and C. penicillata may have diverged under a scenario of gene
flow under secondary contact. Here, we demonstrate that RADseq is an efficient
method to simultaneously discover and genotype a large number of markers and
validate the utility of RADseq for examining Callithrix evolution.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22587 
PMID: 27521158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

