

1003. Am J Primatol. 2017 Feb;79(2):1-12. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22587. Epub 2016 Aug 12.

Application of PE-RADSeq to the study of genomic diversity and divergence of two 
Brazilian marmoset species (Callithrix jacchus and C. penicillata).

Malukiewicz J(1)(2), Guschanski K(3), Grativol AD(4), Oliveira MA(5),
Ruiz-Miranda CR(4), Stone AC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, Viçosa, MG, Brazil.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona.
(3)Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,
Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Laboratório de Ciências Ambientais, Centro de Biociências e Biotecnologia,
Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense, Campos dos Goytacazes, RJ, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal, Universidade Federal Rural de 
Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brazil.
(6)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona.

Callithrix jacchus and C. penicillata are among the smallest anthropoid primates,
are highly specialized tree gougers, and largely occupy Brazil's most extreme,
semi-arid biomes. However, the underlying genomic factors that underpin the
evolution of these species and their unique traits are under-investigated.
Additionally, exotic populations of these two species are widely established
throughout Brazil and hybridize with threatened native congers. Thus, both
genomic and conservation factors call for a better understanding of C. jacchus
and C. penicillata evolution. Here, we applied PE-RADseq to characterize genomic 
variation in these two species, using six C. jacchus and seven C. penicillata
individuals. We identified an average of 7,463 and 5,180 SNPs/individual in C.
penicillata and C. jacchus, respectively, and also found 1,395 variable sites
that were represented in both species. C. penicillata showed overall higher
levels of genetic diversity than C. jacchus at the variable sites present in both
species. Additionally, among these variable sites, 106 showed relative
interspecific divergence levels that were significantly higher than the
genome-wide average. We further compared relative and absolute divergence for C. 
penicillata and C. jacchus between RAD loci associated with the 106 significantly
diverged variable sites and all other RAD loci present in both species. The
former RAD loci set showed significantly elevated relative and absolute
divergence measures in comparison to the latter set. This convergence suggests
that C. jacchus and C. penicillata may have diverged under a scenario of gene
flow under secondary contact. Here, we demonstrate that RADseq is an efficient
method to simultaneously discover and genotype a large number of markers and
validate the utility of RADseq for examining Callithrix evolution.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22587 
PMID: 27521158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. Primates. 2017 Jan;58(1):169-178. doi: 10.1007/s10329-016-0560-0. Epub 2016 Aug
8.

Polymorphism of the 3'-UTR of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT) in New World
monkeys.

Lucarelli M(1)(2), Visalberghi E(3), Adriani W(4), Addessi E(3), Pierandrei
S(1)(2), Manciocco A(3), Zoratto F(4), Tamellini A(5), Vitale A(4), Laviola G(4),
Alfaro JL(6), Pascale E(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Hematology, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy.
(2)Pasteur Institute, Cenci Bolognetti Foundation, Sapienza University of Rome,
Rome, Italy.
(3)Istituto di Scienze e Tecnologie della Cognizione, CNR, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Cell Biology and Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanità,
Rome, Italy.
(5)Preclinical Technologies Department, Aptuit, Verona, Italy.
(6)Institute for Society and Genetics and Department of Anthropology, University 
of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Medical-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies, University of
Rome "La Sapienza", Corso della Repubblica 79, 04100, Latina, Italy.
esterina.pascale@uniroma1.it.

Genetic polymorphism in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the dopamine
transporter (DAT) gene has been reported in both human and nonhuman primates, and
the variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) polymorphism has been related to
several neurological and psychiatric disorders. As New World primates have been
employed as models in biomedical research in these fields, in the present study
we assessed genetic variation in the DAT gene in 25 robust capuchin monkeys
(Sapajus spp.) and 39 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Using enzymatic
amplification followed by sequencing of amplified fragments, a VNTR polymorphism 
in the 3'-UTR region of the DAT gene was identified in both robust capuchins and 
common marmosets. The polymorphic tandem repeat of 40-bp basic units is similar
to the human VNTR consensus sequence, with size variants composed of 9, 10, and
11 units in marmosets and 8, 9, 13, and 17 basic units in capuchins. We found
behavioral evidence that carrying the 10-repeat DAT allele promotes flexible
choice and maximization of foraging in marmosets tested in an operant choice
paradigm. Moreover, in an intertemporal choice task, capuchins with longer repeat
variants show less self-controlled choices than capuchins with at least one short
repeat variant. Future research should focus on the relationship between these
DAT polymorphisms, dopamine reuptake via the dopamine transporter, and behavioral
and cognitive variation across New World monkey individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-016-0560-0 
PMID: 27503104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

