

102. Biochem Biophys Rep. 2021 Jul 12;27:101078. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2021.101078.
eCollection 2021 Sep.

Marmoset glutathione transferases with ketosteroid isomerase activity.

Ismail A(1), Sawmi J(1), Mannervik B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Arrhenius Laboratories, Stockholm
University, SE-10691, Stockholm. Sweden.

The common marmoset Callithrix jacchus encodes two glutathione transferase (GST) 
enzymes with ketosteroid double-bond isomerase activity. The most active enzyme
is CjaGST A3-3 showing a specific activity with 5-androsten-3,17-dione (Δ5-AD) of
62.1 ± 1.8 μmol min-1 mg-1, and a kcat value of 261 ± 49 s-1. The second
ketosteroid isomerase CjaGST A1-1 has a 30-fold lower specific activity with
Δ5-AD and a 37-fold lower kcat value. Thus, the marmoset CjaGST A3-3 would be the
main contributor to the biosynthesis of the steroid hormones testosterone and
progesterone, like the human ortholog HsaGST A3-3. Two residues differ in the
H-site of the 91.4% sequence identical CjaGST A1-1 and CjaGST A3-3, and modeling 
of the structures suggests that the bulky phenyl ring of Phe111 in CjaGST A1-1
causes steric hindrance in the binding of the steroid substrate. Tributyltin
acetate (IC50=0.16 ± 0.004 μM) and ethacrynic acid (IC50=3.3 ± 0.2 μM) were found
to be potent inhibitors of CjaGST A3-3, as previously demonstrated with the human
and equine orthologs.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2021.101078 
PMCID: PMC8280513
PMID: 34286113 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


103. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2021 Sep 1;60(5):568-575. doi:
10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-20-000151. Epub 2021 Jul 19.

Pharmacokinetics of Single-Dose Intramuscular and Subcutaneous Injections of
Buprenorphine in Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Fabian NJ(1), Moody DE(2), Averin O(2), Fang WB(2), Jamiel M(3), Fox JG(3), Burns
MA(3), Haupt JL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts;, Email: nfabian@mit.edu.
(2)Center for Human Toxicology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(3)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Although buprenorphine is the most frequently used opioid analgesic in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), there is limited information in the literature
supporting current dosing regimens used for this species. The purpose of this
study was to determine the pharmacokinetic profiles of single-dose buprenorphine 
HCl administered intramuscularly (IM) at 0.01 mg/kg in 6 adult marmosets (1.8 to 
12.8 y old; 2 males, 4 females) and subcutaneously (SQ) at 0.01 mg/kg in 6 adult 
marmo- sets (2.3-4.4 y old; 3 males, 3 females) by mass spectrometry. Blood was
collected at multiple time points from 0.25 to 24 h from unsedated animals
following a hybrid sparse-serial sampling design. The maximal observed plasma
concentration of buprenorphine (Cmax ) administered IM (2.57 ± 0.95 ng/mL) was
significantly higher than administered SQ (1.47 ± 0.61 ng/mL). However, the time 
to Cmax (Tmax) was not statistically different between routes (17.4 ± 6 min for
IM and 19.8 ± 7.8 min for SQ). The time of the last quantifiable concentration of
buprenorphine was 5 ± 1.67 h for IM compared with 6.33 ± 1.51 h for SQ, which was
not statistically different. The mean buprenorphine plasma concentration-time
curves were used to propose a dosing frequency of 4 to 6 h for buprenorphine at
0.01 mg/kg IM or SQ based on a theoretical therapeutic plasma concentration
threshold of 0.1 ng/mL. Based on the mean pharmacokinetic parameters and
plasma-concentration time curves, both IM and SQ routes of buprenorphine at this 
dose provide a rapid increase in the plasma concentration of buprenorphine above 
the therapeutic threshold, and may be more effective for acute rather than
long-lasting analgesia. Further studies are needed to examine repeated dosing
regimens and the efficacy of buprenorphine in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-20-000151 
PMCID: PMC8603367
PMID: 34281629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

