

1021. Cereb Cortex. 2017 Aug 1;27(8):3890-3905. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhw198.

Frontoparietal Functional Connectivity in the Common Marmoset.

Ghahremani M(1)(2), Hutchison RM(3), Menon RS(1)(2), Everling S(1)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of Western Ontario, Canada.
(2)Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada.
(3)Center for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario, Canada.

In contrast to the well established macaque monkey, little is known about
functional connectivity patterns of common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
that is poised to become the leading transgenic primate model. Here, we used
resting-state ultra-high-field fMRI data collected from anesthetized marmosets
and macaques along with awake human subjects, to examine and compare the brain's 
functional organization, with emphasis on the saccade system. Exploratory
independent component analysis revealed eight resting-state networks in marmosets
that greatly overlapped with corresponding macaque and human networks including a
distributed frontoparietal network. Seed-region analyses of the superior
colliculus (SC) showed homolog areas in macaques and marmosets. The marmoset SC
displayed the strongest frontal functional connectivity with area 8aD at the
border to area 6DR. Functional connectivity of this frontal region revealed a
similar functional connectivity pattern as the frontal eye fields in macaques and
humans. Furthermore, areas 8aD, 8aV, PG,TPO, TE2, and TE3 were identified as
major hubs based on region-wise evaluation of betweeness centrality, suggesting
that these cortical regions make up the functional core of the marmoset brain.
The results support an evolutionarily preserved frontoparietal system and provide
a starting point for invasive neurophysiological studies in the marmoset saccade 
and visual systems.

Â© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhw198 
PMID: 27405331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. Biomed Res Int. 2016;2016:1781894. doi: 10.1155/2016/1781894. Epub 2016 Jun 14.

Distinct Expression Pattern of a Deafness Gene, KIAA1199, in a Primate Cochlea.

Hosoya M(1), Fujioka M(1), Okano H(2), Ogawa K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Deafness is one of the most common types of congenital impairments, and at least 
half of the cases are caused by hereditary mutations. Mutations of the gene
KIAA1199 are associated with progressive hearing loss. Its expression is abundant
in human cochlea, but interestingly the spatial expression patterns are different
between mouse and rat cochleae; the pattern in humans has not been fully
investigated. We performed immunohistochemical analysis of a nonhuman primate,
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), cochlea with a KIAA1199-specific antibody. 
In the common marmoset cochlea, KIAA1199 protein expression was more widespread
than in rodents, with all epithelial cells, including hair cells, expressing
KIAA1199. Our results suggest that the primate pattern of KIAA1199 expression is 
wider in comparison with rodents and may play an essential role in the
maintenance of cochlear epithelial cells.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/1781894 
PMCID: PMC4923552
PMID: 27403418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

