

1030. Neuroreport. 2016 Aug 3;27(11):833-6. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000624.

Expression pattern of wolframin, the WFS1 (Wolfram syndrome-1 gene) product, in
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) cochlea.

Suzuki N(1), Hosoya M, Oishi N, Okano H, Fujioka M, Ogawa K.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of aOtorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery bPhysiology, Keio
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Wolfram syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder of the neuroendocrine system,
known as DIDMOAD (Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrophy and
Deafness) syndrome, and considered an endoplasmic reticulum disease. Patients
show mutations in WFS1, which encodes the 890 amino acid protein wolframin.
Although Wfs1 knockout mice develop diabetes, their hearing level is completely
normal. In this study, we examined the expression of wolframin in the cochlea of 
a nonhuman primate common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to elucidate the
discrepancy in the phenotype between species and the pathophysiology of Wolfram
syndrome-associated deafness. The marmoset cochlea showed wolframin
immunoreactivity not only in the spiral ligament type I fibrocytes, spiral
ganglion neurons, outer hair cells, and supporting cells, but in the stria
vascularis basal cells, where wolframin expression was not observed in the
previous mouse study. Considering the absence of the deafness phenotype in Wfs1
knockout mice, the expression of wolframin in the basal cells of primates may
play an essential role in the maintenance of hearing. Elucidating the function of
wolframin protein in the basal cells of primates would be essential for
understanding the pathogenesis of hearing loss in patients with Wolfram syndrome,
which may lead to the discovery of new therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000624 
PMID: 27341211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. Nat Protoc. 2016 Jul;11(7):1299-308. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2016.076. Epub 2016 Jun
23.

MRI-guided stereotaxic brain surgery in the infant and adult common marmoset.

Mundinano IC(1), Flecknell PA(2), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Australia.
(2)Comparative Biology Centre, Medical School, Newcastle University, Newcastle,
UK.

In the past decade, the New World common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has taken 
a seminal position in neurobiological research, fueled in part by its smooth
cortical sheet, which allows cortical areas to be easily accessed by current
technologies on the dorsal surface of the brain. In this protocol, we describe a 
method for the precision placement of agents (e.g., tracers or neurotoxins) into 
small brain regions of the infant and adult marmoset, using an MRI-guided
approach. This strategy uses a protocol for prolonged anesthesia without the need
for intubation that we have recently developed, alongside appropriate analgesia
and monitoring. The protocol can be readily adapted to be used together with
advanced research techniques, such as two-photon microscopy and optical imaging. 
Including a 5-d postoperative care plan, this protocol takes 7 d to complete. The
protocol requires a team of personnel experienced in marmoset care and handling, 
and small-animal neurosurgery; an assistant for monitoring the animal and
assisting with anesthesia; and an MRI technician.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2016.076 
PMID: 27336707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

