

1031. Nat Protoc. 2016 Jul;11(7):1299-308. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2016.076. Epub 2016 Jun
23.

MRI-guided stereotaxic brain surgery in the infant and adult common marmoset.

Mundinano IC(1), Flecknell PA(2), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Australia.
(2)Comparative Biology Centre, Medical School, Newcastle University, Newcastle,
UK.

In the past decade, the New World common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has taken 
a seminal position in neurobiological research, fueled in part by its smooth
cortical sheet, which allows cortical areas to be easily accessed by current
technologies on the dorsal surface of the brain. In this protocol, we describe a 
method for the precision placement of agents (e.g., tracers or neurotoxins) into 
small brain regions of the infant and adult marmoset, using an MRI-guided
approach. This strategy uses a protocol for prolonged anesthesia without the need
for intubation that we have recently developed, alongside appropriate analgesia
and monitoring. The protocol can be readily adapted to be used together with
advanced research techniques, such as two-photon microscopy and optical imaging. 
Including a 5-d postoperative care plan, this protocol takes 7 d to complete. The
protocol requires a team of personnel experienced in marmoset care and handling, 
and small-animal neurosurgery; an assistant for monitoring the animal and
assisting with anesthesia; and an MRI technician.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2016.076 
PMID: 27336707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. RNA. 2016 Aug;22(8):1181-9. doi: 10.1261/rna.054817.115. Epub 2016 Jun 22.

Host miRNA degradation by Herpesvirus saimiri small nuclear RNA requires an
unstructured interacting region.

Pawlica P(1), Moss WN(1), Steitz JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.

Herpesvirus saimiri, an oncogenic herpesvirus, during latency produces seven
small nuclear RNAs, called the Herpesvirus saimiri U RNAs (HSUR1-7). HSUR1
mediates degradation of the host microRNA, miR-27, via a process that requires
imperfect base-pairing. The decreased levels of miR-27 lead to prolonged T-cell
activation and likely contribute to oncogenesis. To gain insight into
HSUR1-mediated degradation of miR-27, we probed the in vivo secondary structure
of HSUR1 and coupled this with bioinformatic structural analyses. The results
suggest that HSUR1 adopts a conformation different than previously believed and
that the region complementary to miR-27 lacks stable structure. To determine
whether HSUR1 structural flexibility is important for its ability to mediate
miR-27 degradation, we performed structurally informative mutagenic analyses of
HSUR1. HSUR1 mutants in which the miR-27 binding site sequence is preserved, but 
sequestered in predicted helices, lose their ability to decrease miR-27 levels.
These results indicate that the HSUR1 miR27-binding region must be available in a
conformationally flexible segment for noncoding RNA function.

Â© 2016 Pawlica et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press for the
RNA Society.

DOI: 10.1261/rna.054817.115 
PMCID: PMC4931111
PMID: 27335146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

