

1032. RNA. 2016 Aug;22(8):1181-9. doi: 10.1261/rna.054817.115. Epub 2016 Jun 22.

Host miRNA degradation by Herpesvirus saimiri small nuclear RNA requires an
unstructured interacting region.

Pawlica P(1), Moss WN(1), Steitz JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.

Herpesvirus saimiri, an oncogenic herpesvirus, during latency produces seven
small nuclear RNAs, called the Herpesvirus saimiri U RNAs (HSUR1-7). HSUR1
mediates degradation of the host microRNA, miR-27, via a process that requires
imperfect base-pairing. The decreased levels of miR-27 lead to prolonged T-cell
activation and likely contribute to oncogenesis. To gain insight into
HSUR1-mediated degradation of miR-27, we probed the in vivo secondary structure
of HSUR1 and coupled this with bioinformatic structural analyses. The results
suggest that HSUR1 adopts a conformation different than previously believed and
that the region complementary to miR-27 lacks stable structure. To determine
whether HSUR1 structural flexibility is important for its ability to mediate
miR-27 degradation, we performed structurally informative mutagenic analyses of
HSUR1. HSUR1 mutants in which the miR-27 binding site sequence is preserved, but 
sequestered in predicted helices, lose their ability to decrease miR-27 levels.
These results indicate that the HSUR1 miR27-binding region must be available in a
conformationally flexible segment for noncoding RNA function.

© 2016 Pawlica et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press for the
RNA Society.

DOI: 10.1261/rna.054817.115 
PMCID: PMC4931111
PMID: 27335146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. J Neurophysiol. 2016 Sep 1;116(3):1286-94. doi: 10.1152/jn.00197.2016. Epub 2016 
Jun 22.

Optogenetic manipulation of neural circuits in awake marmosets.

MacDougall M(1), Nummela SU(2), Coop S(2), Disney A(3), Mitchell JF(4), Miller
CT(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California; Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, University of California,
San Diego, La Jolla, California;
(2)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, California;
(3)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee; and.
(4)Kavli Institute for Brain & Mind, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, California; Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, University of
Rochester, Rochester, New York.
(5)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, University of California, San Diego,
La Jolla, California; Neurosciences Graduate Program, University of California,
San Diego, La Jolla, California; Kavli Institute for Brain & Mind, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, California; corymiller@ucsd.edu.

Optogenetics has revolutionized the study of functional neuronal circuitry
(Boyden ES, Zhang F, Bamberg E, Nagel G, Deisseroth K. Nat Neurosci 8: 1263-1268,
2005; Deisseroth K. Nat Methods 8: 26-29, 2011). Although these techniques have
been most successfully implemented in rodent models, they have the potential to
be similarly impactful in studies of nonhuman primate brains. Common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) have recently emerged as a candidate primate model for gene 
editing, providing a potentially powerful model for studies of neural circuitry
and disease in primates. The application of viral transduction methods in
marmosets for identifying and manipulating neuronal circuitry is a crucial step
in developing this species for neuroscience research. In the present study we
developed a novel, chronic method to successfully induce rapid photostimulation
in individual cortical neurons transduced by adeno-associated virus to express
channelrhodopsin (ChR2) in awake marmosets. We found that large proportions of
neurons could be effectively photoactivated following viral transduction and that
this procedure could be repeated for several months. These data suggest that
techniques for viral transduction and optical manipulation of neuronal
populations are suitable for marmosets and can be combined with existing
behavioral preparations in the species to elucidate the functional neural
circuitry underlying perceptual and cognitive processes.

Copyright © 2016 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00197.2016 
PMCID: PMC5023415
PMID: 27334951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

