

1040. Am J Primatol. 2016 Sep;78(9):961-73. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22566. Epub 2016 Jun 10.

Consistent inter-individual differences in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) 
in Boldness-Shyness, Stress-Activity, and Exploration-Avoidance.

Šlipogor V(1)(2), Gunhold-de Oliveira T(1), Tadić Z(2), Massen JJ(1), Bugnyar
T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Division of Biology, University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.

The study of animal personality, defined as consistent inter-individual
differences in correlated behavioral traits stable throughout time and/or
contexts, has recently become one of the fastest growing areas in animal biology,
with study species ranging from insects to non-human primates. The latter have,
however, only occasionally been tested with standardized experiments. Instead
their personality has usually been assessed using questionnaires. Therefore, this
study aimed to test 21 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) living in three
family groups, in five different experiments, and their corresponding controls.
We found that behavioral differences between our animals were not only consistent
over time, but also across different contexts. Moreover, the consistent behaviors
formed a construct of four major non-social personality components:
Boldness-Shyness in Foraging, Boldness-Shyness in Predation, Stress-Activity, and
Exploration-Avoidance. We found no sex or age differences in these components,
but our results did reveal differences in Exploration-Avoidance between the three
family groups. As social environment can have a large influence on behavior of
individuals, our results may suggest group-level similarity in personality (i.e.,
"group personality") in common marmosets, a species living in highly cohesive
social groups. Am. J. Primatol. 78:961-973, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22566 
PMCID: PMC4996331
PMID: 27286098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. J Pept Sci. 2016 Jun;22(6):397-405. doi: 10.1002/psc.2882.

Comparison of marmoset and human FSH using synthetic peptides of the β-subunit L2
loop region and anti-peptide antibodies.

Kutteyil SS(1), Kulkarni BJ(1), Mojidra R(1), Joseph S(2), Pathak BR(1), Mahale
SD(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Structural Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji
Street, Parel, Mumbai, 400 012, India.
(2)Biomedical Informatics Centre, National Institute for Research in Reproductive
Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji Street, Parel,
Mumbai, 400 012, India.

Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) is a glycoprotein hormone required for female 
and male gametogenesis in vertebrates. Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a 
New World primate monkey, used as animal model in biomedical research.
Observations like, requirement of extremely high dose of human FSH in marmosets
for superovulation compared to other primates and generation of antibodies in
marmoset against human FSH after repeated superovulation cycles, point towards
the possibility that FSH-FSH receptor (FSHR) interaction in marmosets might be
different than in the humans. In this study we attempted to understand some of
these structural differences using FSH peptides and anti-peptide antibody
approach. Based on sequence alignment, in silico modeling and docking studies, L2
loop of FSH β-subunit (L2β) was found to be different between marmoset and human.
Hence, peptides corresponding to region 32-50 of marmoset and human L2β loop were
synthesized, purified and characterized. The peptides displayed dissimilarity in 
terms of molecular mass, predicted isoelectric point, predicted charge and in the
ability to inhibit hormone-receptor interaction. Polyclonal antibodies generated 
against both the peptides were found to exhibit specific binding for the
corresponding peptide and parent FSH in ELISA and Western blotting respectively
and exhibited negligible reactivity to cross-species peptide and FSH in ELISA.
The anti-peptide antibody against marmoset FSH was also able to detect native FSH
in marmoset plasma samples and pituitary sections. In summary, the L2β loop of
marmoset and human FSH has distinct receptor interaction ability and
immunoreactivity indicating possibility of subtle conformational and biochemical 
differences between the two regions which may affect the FSH-FSHR interaction in 
these two primates. Copyright © 2016 European Peptide Society and John Wiley &
Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2016 European Peptide Society and John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/psc.2882 
PMID: 27282136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

