

1044. J Neurophysiol. 2016 Aug 1;116(2):753-64. doi: 10.1152/jn.00136.2016. Epub 2016
Jun 1.

Arousal dynamics drive vocal production in marmoset monkeys.

Borjon JI(1), Takahashi DY(1), Cervantes DC(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute and Department of Psychology, Princeton
University, Princeton New Jersey.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute and Department of Psychology, Princeton
University, Princeton New Jersey asifg@princeton.edu.

Vocal production is the result of interacting cognitive and autonomic processes. 
Despite claims that changes in one interoceptive state (arousal) govern primate
vocalizations, we know very little about how it influences their likelihood and
timing. In this study we investigated the role of arousal during naturally
occurring vocal production in marmoset monkeys. Throughout each session,
naturally occurring contact calls are produced more quickly, and with greater
probability, during higher levels of arousal, as measured by heart rate. On
average, we observed a steady increase in heart rate 23 s before the production
of a call. Following call production, there is a sharp and steep cardiac
deceleration lasting ∼8 s. The dynamics of cardiac fluctuations around a
vocalization cannot be completely predicted by the animal's respiration or
movement. Moreover, the timing of vocal production was tightly correlated to the 
phase of a 0.1-Hz autonomic nervous system rhythm known as the Mayer wave.
Finally, a compilation of the state space of arousal dynamics during vocalization
illustrated that perturbations to the resting state space increase the likelihood
of a call occurring. Together, these data suggest that arousal dynamics are
critical for spontaneous primate vocal production, not only as a robust predictor
of the likelihood of vocal onset but also as scaffolding on which behavior can
unfold.

Copyright © 2016 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00136.2016 
PMCID: PMC6208312
PMID: 27250909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. Am J Primatol. 2016 Sep;78(9):928-36. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22563. Epub 2016 May 25.

Patterns on serpentine shapes elicit visual attention in marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Wombolt JR(1), Caine NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)California State University San Marcos, San Marcos, California.

Given the prevalence of threatening snakes in the evolutionary history, and
modern-day environments of human and nonhuman primates, sensory, and perceptual
abilities that allow for quick detection of, and appropriate response to snakes
are likely to have evolved. Many studies have demonstrated that primates
recognize snakes faster than other stimuli, and it is suggested that the unique
serpentine shape is responsible for its quick detection. However, there are many 
nonthreatening serpentine shapes in the environment (e.g., vines) that are not
threatening; therefore, other cues must be used to distinguish threatening from
benign serpentine objects. In two experiments, we systematically evaluated how
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) visually attend to specific snake-like
features. In the first experiment, we examined if skin pattern is a cue that
elicits increased visual inspection of serpentine shapes by measuring the amount 
of time the marmosets looked into a blind before, during, and after presentation 
of clay models with and without patterns. The marmosets spent the most time
looking at the objects, both serpentine and triangle, that were etched with
scales, suggesting that something may be uniquely salient about scales in evoking
attention. In contrast, they showed relatively little interest in the unpatterned
serpentine and control (a triangle) stimuli. In experiment 2, we replicated and
extended the results of experiment 1 by adding additional stimulus conditions. We
found that patterns on a serpentine shape generated more inspection than those
same patterns on a triangle shape. We were unable to confirm that a scaled
pattern is unique in its ability to elicit visual interest; the scaled models
elicited similar looking times as line and star patterns. Our data provide a
foundation for future research to examine how snakes are detected and identified 
by primates. Am. J. Primatol. 78:928-936, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22563 
PMID: 27225979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

