

1045. Am J Primatol. 2016 Sep;78(9):928-36. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22563. Epub 2016 May 25.

Patterns on serpentine shapes elicit visual attention in marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Wombolt JR(1), Caine NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)California State University San Marcos, San Marcos, California.

Given the prevalence of threatening snakes in the evolutionary history, and
modern-day environments of human and nonhuman primates, sensory, and perceptual
abilities that allow for quick detection of, and appropriate response to snakes
are likely to have evolved. Many studies have demonstrated that primates
recognize snakes faster than other stimuli, and it is suggested that the unique
serpentine shape is responsible for its quick detection. However, there are many 
nonthreatening serpentine shapes in the environment (e.g., vines) that are not
threatening; therefore, other cues must be used to distinguish threatening from
benign serpentine objects. In two experiments, we systematically evaluated how
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) visually attend to specific snake-like
features. In the first experiment, we examined if skin pattern is a cue that
elicits increased visual inspection of serpentine shapes by measuring the amount 
of time the marmosets looked into a blind before, during, and after presentation 
of clay models with and without patterns. The marmosets spent the most time
looking at the objects, both serpentine and triangle, that were etched with
scales, suggesting that something may be uniquely salient about scales in evoking
attention. In contrast, they showed relatively little interest in the unpatterned
serpentine and control (a triangle) stimuli. In experiment 2, we replicated and
extended the results of experiment 1 by adding additional stimulus conditions. We
found that patterns on a serpentine shape generated more inspection than those
same patterns on a triangle shape. We were unable to confirm that a scaled
pattern is unique in its ability to elicit visual interest; the scaled models
elicited similar looking times as line and star patterns. Our data provide a
foundation for future research to examine how snakes are detected and identified 
by primates. Am. J. Primatol. 78:928-936, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22563 
PMID: 27225979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. J Med Primatol. 2016 Jun;45(3):139-46. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12216. Epub 2016 May 16.

Comprehensive panel of cross-reacting monoclonal antibodies for analysis of
different immune cells and their distribution in the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Neumann B(1), Shi T(1), Gan LL(1), Klippert A(1), Daskalaki M(1), Stolte-Leeb
N(1), Stahl-Hennig C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Infection Models, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Goettingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Common marmosets are extensively used in immunological and
pharmacological research, and the usage of methods such as flow cytometry gain
increasing importance.
METHODS: Using multicolor flow cytometry cross-reactivity of monoclonal
antibodies with cells of common marmosets was analyzed. Furthermore, frequencies 
of immune cells and immunological parameters were assessed in healthy common
marmosets.
RESULTS: A total of 97 clones of monoclonal antibodies raised against CD markers,
chemokine receptors, and miscellaneous markers were tested. Additionally,
baseline frequencies of different innate and adaptive immune cells as well as
certain parameters, such as activation and memory T-cell and B-cell distribution,
are provided.
CONCLUSION: Our study gives an extended overview of cross-reactive antibodies for
flow cytometric analysis of immune cells as well as baseline values for different
immune parameters in healthy common marmosets.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12216 
PMID: 27221549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

