

1053. Cereb Cortex. 2016 Jul;26(7):3273-84. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhw067. Epub 2016 Apr
29.

Role of the Perigenual Anterior Cingulate and Orbitofrontal Cortex in Contingency
Learning in the Marmoset.

Jackson SA(1), Horst NK(1), Pears A(2), Robbins TW(1), Roberts AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.

Two learning mechanisms contribute to decision-making: goal-directed actions and 
the "habit" system, by which action-outcome and stimulus-response associations
are formed, respectively. Rodent lesion studies and human neuroimaging have
implicated both the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the orbitofrontal cortex 
(OFC) in the neural basis of contingency learning, a critical component of
goal-directed actions, though some published findings are conflicting. We sought 
to reconcile the existing literature by comparing the effects of excitotoxic
lesions of the perigenual anterior cingulate cortex (pgACC), a region of the
mPFC, and OFC on contingency learning in the marmoset monkey using a
touchscreen-based paradigm, in which the contingent relationship between one of a
pair of actions and its outcome was degraded selectively. Both the pgACC and OFC 
lesion groups were insensitive to the contingency degradation, whereas the
control group demonstrated selectively higher performance of the nondegraded
action when compared with the degraded action. These findings suggest the pgACC
and OFC are both necessary for normal contingency learning and therefore
goal-directed behavior.

Â© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhw067 
PMCID: PMC4898677
PMID: 27130662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2016 May;32(3):369-75.

[Advances in the Animal Models of MERS-CoV].

[Article in Chinese]

Lan J, Deng Y, Tan W.

The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was first isolated in
2012 from patients that died from severe pneumonia. It was another coronavirus
which resulted in severe infection of humans, apart from the severe acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The development of an appropriate animal model 
is necessary to study the pathogenesis and to evaluate the intervening measures
against MERS-CoV infection. To date, several small animals(e.g., mice, Syrian
hamsters, and ferrets) have been used to study MERS-CoV infection. In addition,
rhesus macaques, common marmosets, and dromedary camels were also utilized as the
models for MERS-CoV study. The purpose of this paper is to summarize the
advantages and disadvantages of the animal models mentioned above, to provide a
thorough understanding of the MERS-CoV study.


PMID: 29963837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

