

1054. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2016 May;32(3):369-75.

[Advances in the Animal Models of MERS-CoV].

[Article in Chinese]

Lan J, Deng Y, Tan W.

The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was first isolated in
2012 from patients that died from severe pneumonia. It was another coronavirus
which resulted in severe infection of humans, apart from the severe acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus. The development of an appropriate animal model 
is necessary to study the pathogenesis and to evaluate the intervening measures
against MERS-CoV infection. To date, several small animals(e.g., mice, Syrian
hamsters, and ferrets) have been used to study MERS-CoV infection. In addition,
rhesus macaques, common marmosets, and dromedary camels were also utilized as the
models for MERS-CoV study. The purpose of this paper is to summarize the
advantages and disadvantages of the animal models mentioned above, to provide a
thorough understanding of the MERS-CoV study.


PMID: 29963837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. Nat Rev Neurol. 2016 Jun;12(6):358-68. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2016.59. Epub 2016
Apr 29.

Advanced MRI and staging of multiple sclerosis lesions.

Absinta M(1)(2), Sati P(1), Reich DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, 10 Center Drive MSC 1400,
Building 10 Room 5C103, Bethesda, Maryland 20852, USA.
(2)Institute of Experimental Neurology, Division of Neuroscience, San Raffaele
Scientific Institute, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Via Olgettina 60,
20132, Milan, Italy.

Over the past few decades, MRI-based visualization of demyelinated CNS lesions
has become pivotal to the diagnosis and monitoring of multiple sclerosis (MS). In
this Review, we outline current efforts to correlate imaging findings with the
pathology of lesion development in MS, and the pitfalls that are being
encountered in this research. Multimodal imaging at high and ultra-high magnetic 
field strengths is yielding biologically relevant insights into the
pathophysiology of blood-brain barrier dynamics and both active and chronic
inflammation, as well as mechanisms of lesion healing and remyelination. Here, we
parallel the results in humans with advances in imaging of a primate model of MS 
- experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common marmoset - in
which demyelinated lesions resemble their human counterparts far more closely
than do EAE lesions in the rodent. This approach holds promise for the
identification of innovative biological markers, and for next-generation clinical
trials that will focus more on tissue protection and repair.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneurol.2016.59 
PMCID: PMC5074769
PMID: 27125632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: statement The authors declare no competing
interests.

