

1056. Gene Ther. 2016 Aug;23(8-9):680-9. doi: 10.1038/gt.2016.42. Epub 2016 Apr 26.

AAV-mediated transduction and targeting of retinal bipolar cells with improved
mGluR6 promoters in rodents and primates.

Lu Q(1), Ganjawala TH(1), Ivanova E(2), Cheng JG(3), Troilo D(4), Pan ZH(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Wayne State University School of
Medicine, Detroit, MI, USA.
(2)Burke Medical Research Institute, Weill Medical College of Cornell University,
White Plains, NY, USA.
(3)Neuroscience Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(4)State University of New York, College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Kresge Eye Institute, Wayne State University
School of Medicine, Detroit, MI, USA.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors have been a powerful gene delivery vehicle
to the retina for basic research and gene therapy. For many of these
applications, achieving cell type-specific targeting and high transduction
efficiency is desired. Recently, there has been increasing interest in
AAV-mediated gene targeting to specific retinal bipolar cell types. A 200-bp
enhancer in combination with a basal SV40 promoter has been commonly used to
target transgenes into ON-type bipolar cells. In the current study, we searched
for additional cis-regulatory elements in the mGluR6 gene for improving
AAV-mediated transduction efficiency into retinal bipolar cells. Our results
showed that the combination of the endogenous mGluR6 promoter with additional
enhancers in the introns of the mGluR6 gene markedly enhanced AAV transduction
efficiency as well as made the targeting more selective for rod bipolar cells in 
mice. Furthermore, the AAV vectors with the improved promoter could target to ON 
bipolar cells with robust transduction efficiency in the parafovea and the far
peripheral retina of marmoset monkeys. The improved mGluR6 promoter constructs
could provide a valuable tool for genetic manipulation in rod bipolar cells in
mice and facilitate clinical applications for ON bipolar cell-based gene
therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/gt.2016.42 
PMCID: PMC4863234
PMID: 27115727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2016 Apr;36(4):582-7.

[Detection of neutralizing antibody to human adenovirus type 5 in marmosets].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun YC(1), Li TT, Wang YL, Zhang L, Zhu H, Li CY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou
510515, China. E-mail: 759921681@qq.com.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a recombinant human adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) expressing
luciferase and GFP reporter gene and detect neutralizing antibodies against
adenovirus type 5 in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to provide basic
laboratory data for evaluating adenovirus vaccines.
METHODS: Luciferase and GFP reporter genes from plasmid pHAGE-CMV-GFP were
inserted into pDC315 to construct the recombinant adenovirus shutter plasmid
pDC315-Luc-GFP. The shutter plasmid was co-transduced with pBHGlox(delta)E1,3Cre 
in 293A cell line to package the recombinant adenovirus rAd5/Luc/GFP. Three
rounds of plaque formation experiment were performed to select the monoclonal
adenovirus followed by purification with cesium chloride density gradient
centrifugation and virus titration with TCID50 method. Chemiluminescence assay
and flow cytometry were employed to detect the neutralizing antibody levels in 14
common marmosets.
RESULTS: The shuttle plasmid pDC315-Luc-GFP was successfully constructed and the 
recombinant adenovirus rAd5/Luc/GFP was packaged with a the titer reaching
6.9Ã—10(11.5) PFU/mL. In the 14 marmosets, chemiluminescence assay identified 4
(28.6%) marmosets that were positive for Ad5-neutralizing antibodies, including 2
with a antibody titer of 1/16 and another 2 with a titer of 1/32; flow cytomery
detected Ad5-neutralizing antibodies in 3 marmosets at the titer of 1/16.
CONCLUSION: Chemiluminescence assay is a simple, sensitive, and accurate modality
for detecting Ad5-neutralizing antibodies. Common marmosets have a very low
positivity rate for Ad5-neutralizing antibodies and are therefore promising
models for studying adenovirus-based vaccines and therapies.


PMID: 27113192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

