

106. Sci Rep. 2021 Jul 15;11(1):14565. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-93819-z.

Medial prefrontal cortex (A32 and A25) projections in the common marmoset: a
subcortical anterograde study.

Ríos-Flórez JA(1), Lima RRM(2), Morais PLAG(3), de Medeiros HHA(2), Cavalcante
JS(4), Junior ESN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroanatomy Laboratory, Department of Morphology, Federal University of Rio
Grande Do Norte, Natal, Brazil. alexander.rios@ufrn.edu.br.
(2)Neuroanatomy Laboratory, Department of Morphology, Federal University of Rio
Grande Do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Experimental Neurology, the University of the State of Rio
Grande Do Norte, Mossoro, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory for Neurochemical Studies, Federal University of Rio Grande Do
Norte, Natal, Brazil.

This study was aimed at establishing the subcorticals substrates of the cognitive
and visceromotor circuits of the A32 and A25 cortices of the medial prefrontal
cortex and their projections and interactions with subcortical complexes in the
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). The study was primarily restricted
to the nuclei of the diencephalon and amygdala. The common marmoset is a
neotropical primate of the new world, and the absence of telencephalic gyrus
favors the mapping of neuronal fibers. The biotinylated dextran amine was
employed as an anterograde tracer. There was an evident pattern of rostrocaudal
distribution of fibers within the subcortical nuclei, with medial orientation.
Considering this distribution, fibers originating from the A25 cortex were found 
to be more clustered in the diencephalon and amygdala than those originating in
the A32 cortex. Most areas of the amygdala received fibers from both cortices. In
the diencephalon, all regions received projections from the A32, while the A25
fibers were restricted to the thalamus, hypothalamus, and epithalamus at
different densities. Precise deposits of neuronal tracers provided here may
significantly contribute to expand our understanding of specific connectivity
among the medial prefrontal cortex with limbic regions and diencephalic areas,
key elements to the viscerocognitive process.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-93819-z 
PMCID: PMC8282874
PMID: 34267273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. J Neurosci. 2021 Aug 25;41(34):7246-7258. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0227-21.2021.
Epub 2021 Jul 14.

Flexible versus Fixed Spatial Self-Ordered Response Sequencing: Effects of
Inactivation and Neurochemical Modulation of Ventrolateral Prefrontal Cortex.

Axelsson SFA(1)(2), Horst NK(1)(2), Horiguchi N(1)(2), Roberts AC(3)(2), Robbins 
TW(4)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United
Kingdom.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom twr2@cam.ac.uk acr4@cam.ac.uk.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United
Kingdom twr2@cam.ac.uk acr4@cam.ac.uk.

Previously, studies using human neuroimaging and excitotoxic lesions in non-human
primate have demonstrated an important role of ventrolateral prefrontal cortex
(vlPFC) in higher order cognitive functions such as cognitive flexibility and the
planning of behavioral sequences. In the present experiments, we tested effects
on performance of temporary inactivation (using GABA receptor agonists) and
dopamine (DA) D2 and 5-HT2A-receptor (R) blockade of vlPFC via local
intracerebral infusions in the marmoset. We trained common marmosets to perform
spatial self-ordered sequencing tasks in which one cohort of animals performed
two and three response sequences on a continuously varying spatial array of
response options on a touch-sensitive screen. Inactivation of vlPFC produced a
marked disruption of accuracy of sequencing which also exhibited significant
error perseveration. There were somewhat contrasting effects of D2 and 5-HT2A-R
blockade, with the former producing error perseveration on incorrect trials,
though not significantly impairing accuracy overall, and the latter significantly
impairing accuracy but not error perseveration. A second cohort of marmosets were
directly compared on performance of fixed versus variable spatial arrays.
Inactivation of vlPFC again impaired self-ordered sequencing, but only with
varying, and not fixed spatial arrays, the latter leading to the consistent use
of fewer, preferred sequences. These findings add to evidence that vlPFC is
implicated in goal-directed behavior that requires higher-order response
heuristics that can be applied flexibly over different (variable), as compared
with fixed stimulus exemplars. They also show that dopaminergic and serotonergic 
chemomodulation has distinctive effects on such performance.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT This investigation employing local intracerebral infusions to
inactivate the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) of the New World marmoset reveals 
the important role of this region in self-ordered response sequencing in variable
but not fixed spatial arrays. These novel findings emphasize the higher order
functions of this region, contributing to cognitive flexibility and planning of
goal directed behavior. The investigation also reports for the first time
somewhat contrasting neuromodulatory deficits produced by infusions of dopamine
(DA) D2 and 5-HT2A receptor (R) antagonists into the same region, of possible
significance for understanding cognitive deficits produced by anti-psychotic
drugs.

Copyright © 2021 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0227-21.2021 
PMCID: PMC8387118
PMID: 34261701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

