

1062. Drug Metab Dispos. 2016 Jul;44(7):911-5. doi: 10.1124/dmd.116.070383. Epub 2016
Apr 20.

Individual Differences in Metabolic Clearance of S-Warfarin Efficiently Mediated 
by Polymorphic Marmoset Cytochrome P450 2C19 in Livers.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Kawano M(1), Shimizu M(1), Toda A(1), Utoh
M(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.K., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U., A.T., M.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and 
Center of Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio
University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.K., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U., A.T., M.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and 
Center of Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio
University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Erratum in
    Drug Metab Dispos. 2020 Aug;48(8):723.

Marmoset cytochrome P450 2C19, highly homologous to human P450 2C9 and 2C19, has 
been identified in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a nonhuman primate
species used in drug metabolism studies. Although genetic variants in human and
macaque P450 2C genes account for the interindividual variability in drug
metabolism, genetic variants have not been investigated in the marmoset P450 2C19
In this study, sequencing of P450 2C19 in 24 marmosets identified three variants 
p.[(Phe7Leu; Ser254Leu; Ile469Thr)], which showed substantially reduced metabolic
capacity of S-warfarin compared with the wild-type group in vivo and in vitro.
Although mean plasma concentrations of R-warfarin in marmosets determined after
chiral separation were similar between the homozygous mutant and wild-type groups
up to 24 hours after the intravenous and oral administrations of racemic
warfarin, S-warfarin depletion from plasma was significantly faster in the three 
wild-type marmosets compared with the three homozygous mutant marmosets. These
variants, cosegregating in the marmosets analyzed, influenced metabolic
activities in 18 marmoset liver microsomes because the homozygotes and
heterozygotes showed significantly reduced catalytic activities in liver
microsomes toward S-warfarin 7-hydroxylation compared with the wild-type group.
Kinetic analysis for S-warfarin 7-hydroxylation indicated that the recombinant
P450 2C19 Ser254Leu variant would change the metabolic capacity. These results
indicated that the interindividual variability of P450 2C-dependent drug
metabolism such as S-warfarin clearance is at least partly accounted for by P450 
2C19 variants in marmosets, suggesting that polymorphic P450 2C-dependent
catalytic functions are relatively similar between marmosets and humans.

Copyright © 2016 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.116.070383 
PMID: 27098744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. J Neurosci. 2016 Apr 20;36(16):4579-90. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4563-15.2016.

Rapid Adaptation Induces Persistent Biases in Population Codes for Visual Motion.

Zavitz E(1), Yu HH(2), Rowe EG(3), Rosa MG(2), Price NS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, and ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash
University Node, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia
elizabeth.zavitz@monash.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology, Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, and ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash
University Node, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Physiology.

Each visual experience changes the neural response to subsequent stimuli. If the 
brain is unable to incorporate these encoding changes, the decoding, or
perception, of subsequent stimuli is biased. Although the phenomenon of
adaptation pervades the nervous system, its effects have been studied mainly in
isolation, based on neuronal encoding changes induced by an isolated, prolonged
stimulus. To understand how adaptation-induced biases arise and persist under
continuous, naturalistic stimulation, we simultaneously recorded the responses of
up to 61 neurons in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) middle temporal area to a
sequence of directions that changed every 500 ms. We found that
direction-specific adaptation following only 0.5 s of stimulation strongly
affected encoding for up to 2 s by reducing both the gain and the spike count
correlations between pairs of neurons with preferred directions close to the
adapting direction. In addition, smaller changes in bandwidth and preferred
direction were observed in some animals. Decoding individual trials of
adaptation-affected activity in simultaneously recorded neurons predicted
repulsive biases that are consistent with the direction aftereffect.
Surprisingly, removing spike count correlations by trial shuffling did not impact
decoding performance or bias. When adaptation had the largest effect on encoding,
the decoder made the most errors. This suggests that neural and perceptual
repulsion is not a mechanism to enhance perceptual performance but is instead a
necessary consequence of optimizing neural encoding for the identification of a
wide range of stimulus properties in diverse temporal contexts.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT: Although perception depends upon decoding the pattern of activity
across a neuronal population, the encoding properties of individual neurons are
unreliable: a single neuron's response to repetitions of the same stimulus is
variable, and depends on both its spatial and temporal context. In this
manuscript, we describe the complete cascade of adaptation-induced effects in
sensory encoding and show how they predict population decoding errors consistent 
with perceptual biases. We measure the time course of adaptation-induced changes 
to the response properties of neurons in isolation, and to the correlation
structure across pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons. These results provide 
novel insight into how and for how long adaptation affects the neural code,
particularly during continuous, naturalistic vision.

Copyright © 2016 the authors 0270-6474/16/364579-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4563-15.2016 
PMCID: PMC6601831
PMID: 27098699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

