

1065. J Med Primatol. 2016 Jun;45(3):118-25. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12214. Epub 2016 Apr 12.

Relationship between body temperature, weight, and hematological parameters of
black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Pereira LC(1), Barros M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Basal thermal values of captive adult black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix penicillata) in a thermoneutral environment were measured via
different methods, along with body weight and hematological parameters.
METHOD: Body temperatures were recorded with rectal (RC), subcutaneous (SC)
microchip transponder and infrared (left and right) tympanic membrane (TM)
thermometries. Thermal values were correlated with body mass and some
hematological data.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Similar RC and SC temperatures were observed, these
being significantly higher than the left and right TM values. SC temperature was 
positively correlated and in close agreement with RC measurements. Although body 
temperatures were not influenced by gender, capture time, or body weight, they
were correlated with hematological parameters. Thus, body temperatures in this
species seem to reflect some of the characteristics of the assessments' location,
with SC microchip transponders being a less invasive method to assess body
temperature in these small-bodied non-human primates.

Â© 2016 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12214 
PMID: 27072667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2016;15(5):578-86.

Psycho-Cognitive Intervention for ASD from Cross-Species Behavioral Analyses of
Infants, Chicks and Common Marmosets.

Koshiba M(1), Karino G, Mimura K, Nakamura S, Yui K, Kunikata T, Yamanouchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Saitama Medical University, 38 
Morohongo, Moroyama-cho, Iruma-gun, 350-0495 Saitama, Japan.
koshiba@saitama-med.ac.jp.

Educational treatment to support social development of children with autism
spectrum disorder (ASD) is an important topic in developmental psychiatry.
However, it remains difficult to objectively quantify the socio-emotional
development of ASD children. To address this problem, we developed a novel
analytical method that assesses subjects' complex behaviors using multivariate
analysis, 'Behavior Output analysis for Quantitative Emotional State Translation'
(BOUQUET). Here, we examine the potential for psycho-cognitive ASD therapy based 
on comparative evaluations of clinical (human) and experimental (animal) models. 
Our observations of ASD children (vs. their normally developing siblings) and the
domestic chick in socio-sensory deprivation models show the importance of
unimodal sensory stimulation, particularly important for tactile- and
auditory-biased socialization. Identifying psycho-cognitive elements in early
neural development, human newborn infants in neonatal intensive care unit as well
as a New World monkey, the common marmoset, also prompted us to focus on the
development of voluntary movement against gravity. In summary, striking
behavioral similarities between children with ASD and domestic chicks'
socio-sensory deprivation models support the role of multimodal sensory-motor
integration as a prerequisite step for normal development of socio-emotional and 
psycho-cognitive functions. Data obtained in the common marmoset model also
suggest that switching from primitive anti-gravity reflexes to complex voluntary 
movement may be a critical milestone for psycho-cognitive development. Combining 
clinical findings with these animal models, and using multivariate integrative
analyses may facilitate the development of effective interventions to improve
social functions in infants and in children with neurodevelopmental disorders.

DOI: 10.2174/1871527315666160413121613 
PMID: 27071788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

