

1066. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2016;15(5):578-86.

Psycho-Cognitive Intervention for ASD from Cross-Species Behavioral Analyses of
Infants, Chicks and Common Marmosets.

Koshiba M(1), Karino G, Mimura K, Nakamura S, Yui K, Kunikata T, Yamanouchi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Saitama Medical University, 38 
Morohongo, Moroyama-cho, Iruma-gun, 350-0495 Saitama, Japan.
koshiba@saitama-med.ac.jp.

Educational treatment to support social development of children with autism
spectrum disorder (ASD) is an important topic in developmental psychiatry.
However, it remains difficult to objectively quantify the socio-emotional
development of ASD children. To address this problem, we developed a novel
analytical method that assesses subjects' complex behaviors using multivariate
analysis, 'Behavior Output analysis for Quantitative Emotional State Translation'
(BOUQUET). Here, we examine the potential for psycho-cognitive ASD therapy based 
on comparative evaluations of clinical (human) and experimental (animal) models. 
Our observations of ASD children (vs. their normally developing siblings) and the
domestic chick in socio-sensory deprivation models show the importance of
unimodal sensory stimulation, particularly important for tactile- and
auditory-biased socialization. Identifying psycho-cognitive elements in early
neural development, human newborn infants in neonatal intensive care unit as well
as a New World monkey, the common marmoset, also prompted us to focus on the
development of voluntary movement against gravity. In summary, striking
behavioral similarities between children with ASD and domestic chicks'
socio-sensory deprivation models support the role of multimodal sensory-motor
integration as a prerequisite step for normal development of socio-emotional and 
psycho-cognitive functions. Data obtained in the common marmoset model also
suggest that switching from primitive anti-gravity reflexes to complex voluntary 
movement may be a critical milestone for psycho-cognitive development. Combining 
clinical findings with these animal models, and using multivariate integrative
analyses may facilitate the development of effective interventions to improve
social functions in infants and in children with neurodevelopmental disorders.

DOI: 10.2174/1871527315666160413121613 
PMID: 27071788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2016 May 5;371(1693). pii: 20150370. doi:
10.1098/rstb.2015.0370.

Early development of turn-taking with parents shapes vocal acoustics in infant
marmoset monkeys.

Takahashi DY(1), Fenley AR(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
NJ 08544, USA asifg@princeton.edu.

In humans, vocal turn-taking is a ubiquitous form of social interaction. It is a 
communication system that exhibits the properties of a dynamical system: two
individuals become coupled to each other via acoustic exchanges and mutually
affect each other. Human turn-taking develops during the first year of life. We
investigated the development of vocal turn-taking in infant marmoset monkeys, a
New World species whose adult vocal behaviour exhibits the same universal
features of human turn-taking. We find that marmoset infants undergo the same
trajectory of change for vocal turn-taking as humans, and do so during the same
life-history stage. Our data show that turn-taking by marmoset infants depends on
the development of self-monitoring, and that contingent parental calls elicit
more mature-sounding calls from infants. As in humans, there was no evidence that
parental feedback affects the rate of turn-taking maturation. We conclude that
vocal turn-taking by marmoset monkeys and humans is an instance of convergent
evolution, possibly as a result of pressures on both species to adopt a
cooperative breeding strategy and increase volubility.

Â© 2016 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2015.0370 
PMCID: PMC4843608
PMID: 27069047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

