

1067. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2016 May 5;371(1693). pii: 20150370. doi:
10.1098/rstb.2015.0370.

Early development of turn-taking with parents shapes vocal acoustics in infant
marmoset monkeys.

Takahashi DY(1), Fenley AR(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
NJ 08544, USA asifg@princeton.edu.

In humans, vocal turn-taking is a ubiquitous form of social interaction. It is a 
communication system that exhibits the properties of a dynamical system: two
individuals become coupled to each other via acoustic exchanges and mutually
affect each other. Human turn-taking develops during the first year of life. We
investigated the development of vocal turn-taking in infant marmoset monkeys, a
New World species whose adult vocal behaviour exhibits the same universal
features of human turn-taking. We find that marmoset infants undergo the same
trajectory of change for vocal turn-taking as humans, and do so during the same
life-history stage. Our data show that turn-taking by marmoset infants depends on
the development of self-monitoring, and that contingent parental calls elicit
more mature-sounding calls from infants. As in humans, there was no evidence that
parental feedback affects the rate of turn-taking maturation. We conclude that
vocal turn-taking by marmoset monkeys and humans is an instance of convergent
evolution, possibly as a result of pressures on both species to adopt a
cooperative breeding strategy and increase volubility.

© 2016 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2015.0370 
PMCID: PMC4843608
PMID: 27069047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. Curr Biol. 2016 May 23;26(10):1249-60. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2016.03.023. Epub 2016 
Apr 7.

Perinatally Influenced Autonomic System Fluctuations Drive Infant Vocal
Sequences.

Zhang YS(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
Electronic address: asifg@princeton.edu.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2016 May 23;26(10):R422-4.

The variable vocal behavior of human infants is the scaffolding upon which speech
and social interactions develop. It is important to know what factors drive this 
developmentally critical behavioral output. Using marmoset monkeys as a model
system, we first addressed whether the initial conditions for vocal output and
its sequential structure are perinatally influenced. Using dizygotic twins and
Markov analyses of their vocal sequences, we found that in the first postnatal
week, twins had more similar vocal sequences to each other than to their non-twin
siblings. Moreover, both twins and their siblings had more vocal sequence
similarity with each other than with non-sibling infants. Using electromyography,
we then investigated the physiological basis of vocal sequence structure by
measuring respiration and arousal levels (via changes in heart rate). We tested
the hypothesis that early-life influences on vocal output are via fluctuations of
the autonomic nervous system (ANS) mediated by vocal biomechanics. We found that 
arousal levels fluctuate at ∼0.1 Hz (the Mayer wave) and that this slow
oscillation modulates the amplitude of the faster, ∼1.0 Hz respiratory rhythm.
The systematic changes in respiratory amplitude result in the different
vocalizations that comprise infant vocal sequences. Among twins, the temporal
structure of arousal level changes was similar and therefore indicates why their 
vocal sequences were similar. Our study shows that vocal sequences are tightly
linked to respiratory patterns that are modulated by ANS fluctuations and that
the temporal structure of ANS fluctuations is perinatally influenced.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2016.03.023 
PMID: 27068420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

