

1068. Curr Biol. 2016 May 23;26(10):1249-60. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2016.03.023. Epub 2016 
Apr 7.

Perinatally Influenced Autonomic System Fluctuations Drive Infant Vocal
Sequences.

Zhang YS(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
Electronic address: asifg@princeton.edu.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2016 May 23;26(10):R422-4.

The variable vocal behavior of human infants is the scaffolding upon which speech
and social interactions develop. It is important to know what factors drive this 
developmentally critical behavioral output. Using marmoset monkeys as a model
system, we first addressed whether the initial conditions for vocal output and
its sequential structure are perinatally influenced. Using dizygotic twins and
Markov analyses of their vocal sequences, we found that in the first postnatal
week, twins had more similar vocal sequences to each other than to their non-twin
siblings. Moreover, both twins and their siblings had more vocal sequence
similarity with each other than with non-sibling infants. Using electromyography,
we then investigated the physiological basis of vocal sequence structure by
measuring respiration and arousal levels (via changes in heart rate). We tested
the hypothesis that early-life influences on vocal output are via fluctuations of
the autonomic nervous system (ANS) mediated by vocal biomechanics. We found that 
arousal levels fluctuate at ∼0.1 Hz (the Mayer wave) and that this slow
oscillation modulates the amplitude of the faster, ∼1.0 Hz respiratory rhythm.
The systematic changes in respiratory amplitude result in the different
vocalizations that comprise infant vocal sequences. Among twins, the temporal
structure of arousal level changes was similar and therefore indicates why their 
vocal sequences were similar. Our study shows that vocal sequences are tightly
linked to respiratory patterns that are modulated by ANS fluctuations and that
the temporal structure of ANS fluctuations is perinatally influenced.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2016.03.023 
PMID: 27068420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. Drug Discov Today. 2016 Aug;21(8):1200-5. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2016.03.014. Epub
2016 Apr 7.

The common marmoset as an indispensable animal model for immunotherapy
development in multiple sclerosis.

Kap YS(1), Jagessar SA(2), Dunham J(3), 't Hart BA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: kap@bprc.nl.
(2)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands; Department of Medical Physiology, University Medical Center
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

New drugs often fail in the translation from the rodent experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) model to human multiple sclerosis (MS). Here, we present 
the marmoset EAE model as an indispensable model for translational research into 
MS. The genetic heterogeneity of this species and lifelong exposure to chronic
latent infections and environmental pathogens create a human-like immune system. 
Unique to this model is the presence of the pathological hallmark of progressive 
MS, in particular cortical grey matter lesions. Another great possibility of this
model is systemic and longitudinal immune profiling, whereas in humans and mice
immune profiling is usually performed in a single compartment (i.e. blood or
spleen, respectively). Overall, the marmoset model provides unique opportunities 
for systemic drug-effect profiling.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2016.03.014 
PMID: 27060373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

