

107. J Neurosci. 2021 Aug 25;41(34):7246-7258. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0227-21.2021.
Epub 2021 Jul 14.

Flexible versus Fixed Spatial Self-Ordered Response Sequencing: Effects of
Inactivation and Neurochemical Modulation of Ventrolateral Prefrontal Cortex.

Axelsson SFA(1)(2), Horst NK(1)(2), Horiguchi N(1)(2), Roberts AC(3)(2), Robbins 
TW(4)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United
Kingdom.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom twr2@cam.ac.uk acr4@cam.ac.uk.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United
Kingdom twr2@cam.ac.uk acr4@cam.ac.uk.

Previously, studies using human neuroimaging and excitotoxic lesions in non-human
primate have demonstrated an important role of ventrolateral prefrontal cortex
(vlPFC) in higher order cognitive functions such as cognitive flexibility and the
planning of behavioral sequences. In the present experiments, we tested effects
on performance of temporary inactivation (using GABA receptor agonists) and
dopamine (DA) D2 and 5-HT2A-receptor (R) blockade of vlPFC via local
intracerebral infusions in the marmoset. We trained common marmosets to perform
spatial self-ordered sequencing tasks in which one cohort of animals performed
two and three response sequences on a continuously varying spatial array of
response options on a touch-sensitive screen. Inactivation of vlPFC produced a
marked disruption of accuracy of sequencing which also exhibited significant
error perseveration. There were somewhat contrasting effects of D2 and 5-HT2A-R
blockade, with the former producing error perseveration on incorrect trials,
though not significantly impairing accuracy overall, and the latter significantly
impairing accuracy but not error perseveration. A second cohort of marmosets were
directly compared on performance of fixed versus variable spatial arrays.
Inactivation of vlPFC again impaired self-ordered sequencing, but only with
varying, and not fixed spatial arrays, the latter leading to the consistent use
of fewer, preferred sequences. These findings add to evidence that vlPFC is
implicated in goal-directed behavior that requires higher-order response
heuristics that can be applied flexibly over different (variable), as compared
with fixed stimulus exemplars. They also show that dopaminergic and serotonergic 
chemomodulation has distinctive effects on such performance.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT This investigation employing local intracerebral infusions to
inactivate the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) of the New World marmoset reveals 
the important role of this region in self-ordered response sequencing in variable
but not fixed spatial arrays. These novel findings emphasize the higher order
functions of this region, contributing to cognitive flexibility and planning of
goal directed behavior. The investigation also reports for the first time
somewhat contrasting neuromodulatory deficits produced by infusions of dopamine
(DA) D2 and 5-HT2A receptor (R) antagonists into the same region, of possible
significance for understanding cognitive deficits produced by anti-psychotic
drugs.

Copyright © 2021 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0227-21.2021 
PMCID: PMC8387118
PMID: 34261701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Cell Rep. 2021 Jul 13;36(2):109379. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2021.109379.

Chronic wireless neural population recordings with common marmosets.

Walker JD(1), Pirschel F(2), Sundiang M(3), Niekrasz M(4), MacLean JN(5),
Hatsopoulos NG(6).

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL
60615, USA; Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL 60615, USA. Electronic address: walkerjd@uchicago.edu.
(2)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
IL 60615, USA.
(3)Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL
60615, USA.
(4)Department of Surgery, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60615, USA; The
University of Chicago Neuroscience Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 
60615, USA.
(5)Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL
60615, USA; Department of Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60615,
USA; The University of Chicago Neuroscience Institute, University of Chicago,
Chicago, IL 60615, USA.
(6)Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL
60615, USA; Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL 60615, USA; The University of Chicago Neuroscience Institute,
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60615, USA.

Marmosets are an increasingly important model system for neuroscience in part due
to genetic tractability and enhanced cortical accessibility, due to a
lissencephalic neocortex. However, many of the techniques generally employed to
record neural activity in primates inhibit the expression of natural behaviors in
marmosets precluding neurophysiological insights. To address this challenge, we
have developed methods for recording neural population activity in unrestrained
marmosets across multiple ethological behaviors, multiple brain states, and over 
multiple years. Notably, our flexible methodological design allows for replacing 
electrode arrays and removal of implants providing alternative experimental
endpoints. We validate the method by recording sensorimotor cortical population
activity in freely moving marmosets across their natural behavioral repertoire
and during sleep.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2021.109379 
PMCID: PMC8513487
PMID: 34260919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests N.G.H. serves as a
consultant for BlackRock Microsystems, Inc., the company that sells the
multi-electrode arrays and acquisition system used in this study.

