

1071. Drug Metab Dispos. 2016 Jun;44(6):833-41. doi: 10.1124/dmd.116.070367. Epub 2016 
Apr 4.

A New Marmoset P450 4F12 Enzyme Expressed in Small Intestines and Livers
Efficiently Metabolizes Antihistaminic Drug Ebastine.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Yuki Y(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., Y.Y., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., Y.Y., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are attracting attention as animal models
in preclinical studies for drug development. However, cytochrome P450s (P450s),
major drug-metabolizing enzymes, have not been fully identified and characterized
in marmosets. In this study, based on the four novel P450 4F genes found on the
marmoset genome, we successfully isolated P450 4F2, 4F3B, 4F11, and 4F12 cDNAs in
marmoset livers. Deduced amino acid sequences of the four marmoset P450 4F forms 
exhibited high sequence identities (87%-93%) to the human and cynomolgus monkey
P450 4F homologs. Marmoset P450 4F3B and 4F11 mRNAs were predominantly expressed 
in livers, whereas marmoset P450 4F2 and 4F12 mRNAs were highly expressed in
small intestines and livers. Four marmoset P450 4F proteins heterologously
expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed the ω-hydroxylation of leukotriene B4 In 
addition, marmoset P450 4F12 effectively catalyzed the hydroxylation of
antiallergy drug ebastine, a human P450 2J/4F probe substrate. Ebastine
hydroxylation activities by small intestine and liver microsomes from marmosets
and cynomolgus monkeys showed greatly higher values than those of humans.
Ebastine hydroxylation activities by marmoset and cynomolgus monkey small
intestine microsomes were inhibited (approximately 60%) by anti-P450 4F
antibodies, unlike human small intestine microsomes, suggesting that contribution
of P450 4F enzymes for ebastine hydroxylation in the small intestine might be
different between marmosets/cynomolgus monkeys and humans. These results
indicated that marmoset P450 4F2, 4F3B, 4F11, and 4F12 were expressed in livers
and/or small intestines and were functional in the metabolism of endogenous and
exogenous compounds, similar to those of cynomolgus monkeys and humans.

Copyright © 2016 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.116.070367 
PMID: 27044800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. J Comp Neurol. 2017 Apr 15;525(6):1421-1441. doi: 10.1002/cne.24009. Epub 2016
May 19.

Topography of claustrum and insula projections to medial prefrontal and anterior 
cingulate cortices of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Reser DH(1)(2), Majka P(1)(2)(3), Snell S(1), Chan JM(1), Watkins K(1), Worthy
K(1), Quiroga MD(1), Rosa MG(1)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.
(2)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Research Institute, Monash University,
Clayton, Victoria, 3800, Australia.
(3)Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology, Polish Academy of Sciences, 02-093, 
Warsaw, Poland.
(4)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University
Node, Clayton, Victoria, 3800, Australia.

The claustrum has been the subject of intense research interest in recent years, 
driven in large part by its extensive connections with various regions of the
cerebral cortex and by hypotheses surrounding its possible role in multimodal
sensory and/or sensory-emotional integration. Here we employed neuroanatomical
tracers to map projections from the claustrum-insular region to the medial
prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex of the common marmoset (Callithrx
jacchus). These areas were selected based on their identification as "hub" areas 
of the default mode and cortical salience networks, respectively. Microinjections
of fluorescent tracers, along with gold-nanoparticle-conjugated cholera toxin
B-subunit and biotinylated dextran amine, were placed in subdivisions of the
anterior cingulate area 24b/c and in medial prefrontal areas 32 and 32V. The
resulting distribution of transported label showed rostral-caudal and
dorsal-ventral topographic arrangement of claustrum connections and clear
rostral-caudal topography of insular projections. Medial prefrontal connections
were restricted mainly to a ventromedial strip located in the rostral half of the
claustrum, with a second, smaller patch of cells in the caudal, ventrolateral
portion. In contrast, injections into area 24 yielded dense, widespread
connections from the dorsal claustrum, extending along its entire rostral-caudal 
length. Projections from the "classical" agranular, disgranular, and granular
insular areas were sparse or nonexistent in areas 32 and 32V, with progressively 
increasing connections observed in more caudal tracer injections (i.e., in
subdivisions of area 24). Transported label was observed in rostral peri-insular 
areas orbital periallocortex, orbital proisocortex, and insular proisocortex
following all prefrontal injections. These data provide a structural connectivity
foundation for interpretation of functional imaging studies, which often indicate
activity in the "anterior insula" that may arise, in part, from claustrum and/or 
peri-insular projections to the anterior cingulate and medial prefrontal
cortices. J. Comp. Neurol. 525:1421-1441, 2017. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24009 
PMID: 27038224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

