

1079. Neurodegener Dis. 2016;16(5-6):293-303. doi: 10.1159/000442574. Epub 2016 Mar 22.

Individual and Familial Susceptibility to MPTP in a Common Marmoset Model for
Parkinson's Disease.

Franke SK(1), van Kesteren RE, Hofman S, Wubben JA, Smit AB, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology, Center for Neurogenomics
and Cognitive Research, Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Insight into susceptibility mechanisms underlying Parkinson's
disease (PD) would aid the understanding of disease etiology, enable target
finding and benefit the development of more refined disease-modifying strategies.
METHODS: We used intermittent low-dose MPTP (0.5 mg/kg/week) injections in
marmosets and measured multiple behavioral and neurochemical parameters.
Genetically diverse monkeys from different breeding families were selected to
investigate inter- and intrafamily differences in susceptibility to MPTP
treatment.
RESULTS: We show that such differences exist in clinical signs, in particular
nonmotor PD-related behaviors, and that they are accompanied by differences in
neurotransmitter levels. In line with the contribution of a genetic component,
different susceptibility phenotypes could be traced back through genealogy to
individuals of the different families.
CONCLUSION: Our findings show that low-dose MPTP treatment in marmosets
represents a clinically relevant PD model, with a window of opportunity to
examine the onset of the disease, allowing the detection of individual
variability in disease susceptibility, which may be of relevance for the
diagnosis and treatment of PD in humans.

Â© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000442574 
PMID: 26999593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2016 Aug;41(9):2366-76. doi: 10.1038/npp.2016.41. Epub
2016 Mar 21.

Novel Primate Model of Serotonin Transporter Genetic Polymorphisms Associated
with Gene Expression, Anxiety and Sensitivity to Antidepressants.

Santangelo AM(1)(2), Ito M(3), Shiba Y(1), Clarke HF(1)(2), Schut EH(4),
Cockcroft G(1)(2), Ferguson-Smith AC(3), Roberts AC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, Department of Translational Neuroscience,
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Genetic polymorphisms in the repeat upstream region of the serotonin transporter 
gene (SLC6A4) are associated with individual differences in stress reactivity,
vulnerability to affective disorders, and response to pharmacotherapy. However,
the molecular, neurodevelopmental and psychopharmacological mechanisms underlying
the link between SLC6A4 polymorphisms and the emotionally vulnerable phenotype
are not fully understood. Thus, using the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus we
characterize here a new neurobiological model to help to address these questions.
We first sequenced the marmoset SLC6A4 promoter and identified a double
nucleotide polymorphism (-2053AC/CT) and two single-nucleotide polymorphisms
(-2022C/T and -1592G/C) within the repeat upstream region. We showed their
association with gene expression using in vivo quantitative PCR and with
affective behavior using a primate test of anxiety (human intruder test). The
low-expressing haplotype (AC/C/G) was linked with high anxiety while the
high-expressing one (CT/T/C) was associated with an active coping strategy in
response to threat. Pharmacological challenge with an acute dose of the selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitor, citalopram, revealed a genotype-dependent
behavioral response. While individuals homozygous for the high anxiety-related
haplotype AC/C/G exhibited a dose-dependent, anxiogenic response, individuals
homozygous for the low anxiety-related haplotype CT/T/C showed an opposing,
dose-dependent anxiolytic effect. These findings provide a novel genetic and
behavioral primate model to study the molecular, neurodevelopmental, and
psychopharmacological mechanisms that underlie genetic variation-associated
complex behaviors, with specific implications for the understanding of normal and
abnormal serotonin actions and the development of personalized pharmacological
treatments for psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/npp.2016.41 
PMCID: PMC4946067
PMID: 26997299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

