

1088. Primates. 2016 Jul;57(3):421-31. doi: 10.1007/s10329-016-0526-2. Epub 2016 Mar 5.

Physiological and behavioral responses to routine procedures in captive common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

de Menezes Galvão AC(1), Ferreira RG(1), de Sousa MB(1), Galvão-Coelho NL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Psychobiology Graduation Program, Federal University
of Rio Grande do Norte, Caixa Postal, 1511, Natal, RN, 59078-970, Brazil.
(2)Department of Physiology, Psychobiology Graduation Program, Federal University
of Rio Grande do Norte, Caixa Postal, 1511, Natal, RN, 59078-970, Brazil.
galvaonic@hotmail.com.

The effect of routine captive procedures on the welfare of species used as
experimental models in biomedical research is of great interest, since stress may
alter the generalization and interpretation of results. This study investigated
behavioral and endocrine (fecal cortisol) reactivity patterns in common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) adult males (N = 10) and females (N = 9) subjected to three 
types of routine procedures in captivity: (1) moving to a same-sized cage (P1),
to a smaller cage (P2), and (2) first-time pair formation (P3). Sexually
dimorphic cortisol responses were detected in animals submitted to a physical
environmental stressor (cage change). Females showed an increased response
throughout P1, in relation to baseline (BP) cortisol, and a trend during P2.
Males increased cortisol only during P2. On the other hand, males and females
showed a similar endocrine response when management involved social challenge
(pair formation), with both sexes increasing cortisol levels, but females
exhibited a more intense and longer-lasting cortisol increase. Males and females 
exhibited similar behavioral responses to cage change, except for autogrooming,
with males decreasing this behavior in P1. Only females demonstrated a
significantly higher increase in piloerection frequency than that of males during
the pair formation phase. These endocrine and behavioral changes must be taken
into account when interpreting research data that involve these types of
procedures. Further studies on the impacts of routine colony management are
required to devise and include protocols in official husbandry guidelines.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-016-0526-2 
PMID: 26946459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. J Neurosci. 2016 Mar 2;36(9):2796-808. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1770-15.2016.

Application of q-Space Diffusion MRI for the Visualization of White Matter.

Fujiyoshi K(1), Hikishima K(2), Nakahara J(3), Tsuji O(4), Hata J(5), Konomi
T(1), Nagai T(6), Shibata S(7), Kaneko S(8), Iwanami A(9), Momoshima S(10),
Takahashi S(3), Jinzaki M(10), Suzuki N(3), Toyama Y(9), Nakamura M(11), Okano
H(12).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Orthopedic Surgery, Physiology, Department of Orthopedic
Surgery, National Hospital Organization Murayama Medical Center, Tokyo 208-0011, 
Japan.
(2)Physiology, Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kanagawa 210-0821,
Japan, and.
(3)Neurology, and.
(4)Departments of Orthopedic Surgery, Physiology.
(5)Physiology, Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Brain Science
Institute, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(6)Electron Microscopic Laboratory, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo
160-8582, Japan.
(7)Physiology.
(8)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, National Hospital Organization Murayama
Medical Center, Tokyo 208-0011, Japan.
(9)Departments of Orthopedic Surgery.
(10)Radiology, and.
(11)Departments of Orthopedic Surgery, masa@a8.keio.jp hidokano@a2.keio.jp.
(12)Physiology, Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Brain Science 
Institute, Saitama 351-0198, Japan masa@a8.keio.jp hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

White matter abnormalities in the CNS have been reported recently in various
neurological and psychiatric disorders. Quantitation of non-Gaussianity for water
diffusion by q-space diffusional MRI (QSI) renders biological diffusion barriers 
such as myelin sheaths; however, the time-consuming nature of this method hinders
its clinical application. In the current study, we aimed to refine QSI protocols 
to enable their clinical application and to visualize myelin signals in a
clinical setting. For this purpose, animal studies were first performed to
optimize the acquisition protocol of a non-Gaussian QSI metric. The heat map of
standardized kurtosis values derived from optimal QSI (myelin map) was then
created. Histological validation of the myelin map was performed in
myelin-deficient mice and in a nonhuman primate by monitoring its variation
during demyelination and remyelination after chemical spinal cord injury. The
results demonstrated that it was sensitive enough to depict dysmyelination,
demyelination, and remyelination in animal models. Finally, its utility in
clinical practice was assessed by a pilot clinical study in a selected group of
patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). The human myelin map could be obtained
within 10 min with a 3 T MR scanner. Use of the myelin map was practical for
visualizing white matter and it sensitively detected reappearance of myelin
signals after demyelination, possibly reflecting remyelination in MS patients.
Our results together suggest that the myelin map, a kurtosis-related heat map
obtainable with time-saving QSI, may be a novel and clinically useful means of
visualizing myelin in the human CNS.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Myelin abnormalities 
in the CNS have been gaining increasing attention in various neurological and
psychiatric diseases. However, appropriate methods with which to monitor CNS
myelin in daily clinical practice have been lacking. In the current study, we
introduced a novel MRI modality that produces the "myelin map." The myelin map
accurately depicted myelin status in mice and nonhuman primates and in a pilot
clinical study of multiple sclerosis patients, suggesting that it is useful in
detecting possibly remyelinated lesions. A myelin map of the human brain could be
obtained in <10 min using a 3 T scanner and it therefore promises to be a
powerful tool for researchers and clinicians examining myelin-related diseases.

Copyright © 2016 the authors 0270-6474/16/362797-13$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1770-15.2016 
PMCID: PMC6604869
PMID: 26937016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

