

1096. Anim Cogn. 2016 May;19(3):619-30. doi: 10.1007/s10071-016-0966-5. Epub 2016 Feb
24.

Reversal learning in gonadectomized marmosets with and without hormone
replacement: are males more sensitive to punishment?

LaClair M(1), Lacreuse A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience and Behavior Program, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA,
01003, USA.
(2)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Tobin Hall, 135 Hicks Way, Amherst, MA, 01003, USA. alacreuse@psych.umass.edu.

This study examined sex differences in executive function in middle-aged
gonadectomized marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with or without hormonal
replacement. We tested ten castrated male (mean age 5.5 years) marmosets treated 
with testosterone cypionate (T, n = 5) or vehicle (n = 5) on Reversal Learning,
which contributes to cognitive flexibility, and the Delayed Response task,
measuring working memory. Their performance was compared to that of 11
ovariectomized females (mean age = 3.7 years) treated with Silastic capsules
filled with 17-Î² estradiol (E2, n = 6) or empty capsules (n = 5), previously
tested on the same tasks (Lacreuse et al. in J Neuroendocrinol 26:296-309, 2014. 
doi: 10.1111/jne.12147). Behavioral observations were conducted daily. Females
exhibited more locomotor behaviors than males. Males and females did not differ
in the number of trials taken to reach criterion on the reversals, but males had 
significantly longer response latencies, regardless of hormone replacement. They 
also had a greater number of refusals than females. Additionally, both control
and T-treated males, but not females, had slower responses on incorrect trials,
suggesting that males were making errors due to distraction, lack of motivation
or uncertainty. Furthermore, although both males and females had slower
responding following an incorrect compared to a correct trial, the sex difference
in response latencies was disproportionally large following an incorrect trial.
No sex difference was found in the Delayed Response task. Overall, slower
response latencies in males than females during Reversal Learning, especially
during and following an incorrect trial, may reflect greater sensitivity to
punishment (omission of reward) and greater performance monitoring in males,
compared to females. Because these differences occurred in gonadectomized animals
and regardless of hormone replacement, they may be organized early in life.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-016-0966-5 
PMCID: PMC4852393
PMID: 26909674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Sci Rep. 2016 Feb 24;6:21966. doi: 10.1038/srep21966.

The impact of inhibitory mechanisms in the inner retina on spatial tuning of
RGCs.

Huang JY(1)(2), Protti DA(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Biomedical Science, The University of Sydney, NSW 1825
Australia.
(2)The Bosch Institute, The University of Sydney, NSW 2006 Australia.
(3)Discipline of Physiology, The University of Sydney, NSW 2006 Australia.

Spatial tuning properties of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are sharpened by
lateral inhibition originating at both the outer and inner plexiform layers.
Lateral inhibition in the retina contributes to local contrast enhancement and
sharpens edges. In this study, we used dynamic clamp recordings to examine the
contribution of inner plexiform inhibition, originating from spiking amacrine
cells, to the spatial tuning of RGCs. This was achieved by injecting currents
generated from physiologically recorded excitatory and inhibitory stimulus-evoked
conductances, into different types of primate and mouse RGCs. We determined the
effects of injections of size-dependent conductances in which presynaptic
inhibition and/or direct inhibition onto RGCs were partly removed by blocking the
activity of spiking amacrine cells. We found that inhibition originating from
spiking amacrine cells onto bipolar cell terminals and onto RGCs, work together
to sharpen the spatial tuning of RGCs. Furthermore, direct inhibition is crucial 
for preventing spike generation at stimulus offset. These results reveal how
inhibitory mechanisms in the inner plexiform layer contribute to determining size
tuning and provide specificity to stimulus polarity.

DOI: 10.1038/srep21966 
PMCID: PMC4764933
PMID: 26905860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

