

11. Cells. 2022 Jan 21;11(3). pii: 360. doi: 10.3390/cells11030360.

Homologous Recombination-Enhancing Factors Identified by Comparative
Transcriptomic Analyses of Pluripotent Stem Cell of Human and Common Marmoset.

Yoshimatsu S(1)(2), Nakajima M(1), Qian E(1), Sanosaka T(1), Sato T(1), Okano
H(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo 160-8582, 
Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

A previous study assessing the efficiency of the genome editing technology
CRISPR-Cas9 for knock-in gene targeting in common marmoset (marmoset; Callithrix 
jacchus) embryonic stem cells (ESCs) unexpectedly identified innately enhanced
homologous recombination activity in marmoset ESCs. Here, we compared gene
expression in marmoset and human pluripotent stem cells using transcriptomic and 
quantitative PCR analyses and found that five HR-related genes (BRCA1, BRCA2,
RAD51C, RAD51D, and RAD51) were upregulated in marmoset cells. A total of four of
these upregulated genes enhanced HR efficiency with CRISPR-Cas9 in human
pluripotent stem cells. Thus, the present study provides a novel insight into
species-specific mechanisms for the choice of DNA repair pathways.

DOI: 10.3390/cells11030360 
PMCID: PMC8834151
PMID: 35159172 


12. Mol Brain. 2022 Feb 10;15(1):16. doi: 10.1186/s13041-022-00901-2.

A natural marmoset model of genetic generalized epilepsy.

Yang X(#)(1), Chen Z(#)(1), Wang Z(1), He G(1), Li Z(1), Shi Y(1), Gong N(2),
Zhao B(1), Kuang Y(1), Takahashi E(3), Li W(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Bio-X Institutes, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of Development and
Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Key Laboratory of
Psychotic Disorders, and Brain Science and Technology Research Center, Institute 
of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
200240, China.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai, 200031, China.
(3)Bio-X Institutes, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of Development and
Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Key Laboratory of
Psychotic Disorders, and Brain Science and Technology Research Center, Institute 
of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
200240, China. eiki.takahashi.sjt@gmail.com.
(4)Bio-X Institutes, Key Laboratory for the Genetics of Development and
Neuropsychiatric Disorders (Ministry of Education), Shanghai Key Laboratory of
Psychotic Disorders, and Brain Science and Technology Research Center, Institute 
of Psychology and Behavioral Sciences, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
200240, China. liwd@sjtu.edu.cn.
(5)WLA Laboratories, World Laureates Association, Shanghai, 201203, China.
liwd@sjtu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Epilepsy has been extensively studied as a common neurological disease. Efforts
have been made on rodent and other animal models to reveal the pathogenic
mechanisms of epilepsy and develop new drugs for treatment. However, the features
of current epilepsy models cannot fully mimic different types of epilepsy in
humans, hence non-human primate models of epilepsy are required. The common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World monkey that is widely used to study 
brain function. Here, we present a natural marmoset model of generalized
epilepsy. In this unique marmoset family, generalized epilepsy was successfully
induced by handling operations in some individuals. We mapped the marmoset family
with handling-sensitive epilepsy and found that the epileptic phenotype can be
inherited. These marmosets were more sensitive to the epilepsy inducers
pentylenetetrazol. Using electrocorticogram (ECoG) recordings, we detected
epileptiform discharge in marmosets with a history of seizures. In summary, we
report a family of marmosets with generalized seizures induced by handling
operations. This epileptic marmoset family provides insights to better understand
the mechanism of generalized epilepsy and helps to develop new therapeutic
methods.

Â© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-022-00901-2 
PMCID: PMC8832845
PMID: 35144651 

