

1101. Exp Anim. 2016 Jul 29;65(3):189-96. doi: 10.1538/expanim.15-0097. Epub 2016 Feb
15.

Cryopreservation of ovaries from neonatal marmoset monkeys.

Motohashi HH(1), Ishibashi H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience (NIN),
National Center for Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi,
Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

The ovary of neonatal nonhuman primates contains the highest number of immature
oocytes, but its cryopreservation has not yet been sufficiently investigated in
all life stages. In the current study, we investigated cryodamage after
vitrification/warming of neonatal ovaries from a nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). A Cryotop was used for cryopreservation of whole
ovaries. The morphology of the vitrified/warmed ovaries was found to be
equivalent to that of fresh ovaries. No significant difference in the number of
oocytes retaining normal morphology per unit area in histological sections was
found between the two groups. In an analysis of dispersed cells from the ovaries,
however, the cell viability of the vitrified/warmed group tended to be decreased.
The results of a comet assay showed no significant differences in DNA damage.
These results show that cryopreservation of neonatal marmoset ovaries using
vitrification may be useful as a storage system for whole ovaries.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.15-0097 
PMCID: PMC4976232
PMID: 26876597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2016 Feb 15. doi: 10.1071/RD15321. [Epub ahead of print]

Detection of cross-sex chimerism in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) in interphase cells using fluorescence in situ hybridisation probes
specific for the marmoset X and Y chromosomes.

Wedi E, MÃ¼ller S, Neusser M, Vogt PH, Tkachenko OY, Zimmer J, Smeets D,
Michelmann HW, Nayudu PL.

Chimerism associated with placental sharing in marmosets has been traditionally
analysed using conventional chromosome staining on metaphase spreads or
polymerase chain reaction. However, the former technique requires the presence of
proliferating cells, whereas the latter may be associated with possible blood
cell contamination. Therefore, we aimed to develop a single-cell analysis
technique for sexing marmoset cells. We applied fluorescent in situ hybridisation
(FISH) to cell nuclei using differentially labelled X and Y chromosome-specific
probes. Herein we present the validation of this method in metaphase cells from a
marmoset lymphoblastoid cell line, as well as application of the method for
evaluation of cross-sex chimerism in interphase blood lymphocytes and
haematopoietic bone marrow cells from marmosets of same- and mixed-sex litters.
The results show conclusively that haematopoietic cells of bone marrow and
leucocytes from blood are cross-sex chimeric when the litter is mixed sex. In
addition, single samples of liver and spleen cell suspensions from one individual
were tested. Cross-sex chimerism was observed in the spleen but not in liver
cells. We conclude that FISH is the method of choice to identify cross-sex
chimerism, especially when combined with morphological identification of nuclei
of different cell types, which will allow a targeted tissue-specific analysis.

DOI: 10.1071/RD15321 
PMID: 26876539 

