

1103. J Vet Med Sci. 2016 Jun 1;78(5):837-43. doi: 10.1292/jvms.15-0675. Epub 2016 Feb 
12.

Serum matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) as a biochemical marker for wasting
marmoset syndrome.

Yoshimoto T(1), Niimi K, Takahashi E.

Author information: 
(1)Research Resources Center, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, 
Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Use of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a non-human primate
experimental animal has increased in recent years. Although wasting marmoset
syndrome (WMS) is one of the biggest problems in captive marmoset colonies, the
molecular mechanisms, biochemical markers for accurate diagnosis and a reliable
treatment remain unknown. In this study, as a first step to finding biochemical
marker(s) for the accurate diagnosis of WMS, we conducted blood cell counts,
including hematocrit, hemoglobin and platelets, and examined serum chemistry
values, including albumin, calcium and levels of serum matrix metalloproteinase 9
(MMP9), using a colony of marmosets with and without weight loss. MMP9 is thought
to be an enzyme responsible for the degradation of extracellular matrix
components and participates in the pathogenesis of inflammatory conditions, such 
as human and murine inflammatory bowel disease, which, like WMS, are
characterized histologically by inflammatory cell infiltrations in the
intestines. The values of hematocrit and hemoglobin and levels of serum albumin
and calcium in the WMS group were significantly decreased versus the control
group. The platelet values and serum MMP9 concentrations were increased
significantly in the WMS group compared with the control group. MMP9 could be a
new and useful marker for the diagnosis of WMS in addition to hematocrit,
hemoglobin, serum albumin and calcium. Our results also indicate that MMP9 could 
be a useful molecular candidate for treatment.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.15-0675 
PMCID: PMC4905840
PMID: 26876041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. Vet Pathol. 2016 May;53(3):521-31. doi: 10.1177/0300985815620845. Epub 2016 Feb
11.

A Comparative Review of Animal Models of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
Coronavirus Infection.

Baseler L(1), de Wit E(2), Feldmann H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA
Department of Comparative Pathobiology, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN,
USA Department of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery, University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA.
(3)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA
feldmannh@niaid.nih.gov.

Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was initially isolated
from a Saudi Arabian man with fatal pneumonia. Since the original case in 2012,
MERS-CoV infections have been reported in >1500 humans, and the case fatality
rate is currently 35%. This lineage C betacoronavirus has been reported to cause 
a wide range of disease severity in humans, ranging from asymptomatic to
progressive fatal pneumonia that may be accompanied by renal or multiorgan
failure. Although the clinical presentation of human MERS-CoV infection has been 
documented, many facets of this emerging disease are still unknown and could be
studied with animal models. Several animal models of MERS-CoV have been
developed, including New Zealand white rabbits, transduced or transgenic mice
that express human dipeptidyl peptidase 4, rhesus macaques, and common marmosets.
This review provides an overview of the current state of knowledge on human
MERS-CoV infections, the probable origin of MERS-CoV, and the available animal
models of MERS-CoV infection. Evaluation of the benefits and limitations of these
models will aid in appropriate model selection for studying viral pathogenesis
and transmission, as well as for testing vaccines and antivirals against
MERS-CoV.

Â© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985815620845 
PMID: 26869154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

