

1104. Vet Pathol. 2016 May;53(3):521-31. doi: 10.1177/0300985815620845. Epub 2016 Feb
11.

A Comparative Review of Animal Models of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
Coronavirus Infection.

Baseler L(1), de Wit E(2), Feldmann H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA
Department of Comparative Pathobiology, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN,
USA Department of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery, University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA.
(3)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA
feldmannh@niaid.nih.gov.

Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was initially isolated
from a Saudi Arabian man with fatal pneumonia. Since the original case in 2012,
MERS-CoV infections have been reported in >1500 humans, and the case fatality
rate is currently 35%. This lineage C betacoronavirus has been reported to cause 
a wide range of disease severity in humans, ranging from asymptomatic to
progressive fatal pneumonia that may be accompanied by renal or multiorgan
failure. Although the clinical presentation of human MERS-CoV infection has been 
documented, many facets of this emerging disease are still unknown and could be
studied with animal models. Several animal models of MERS-CoV have been
developed, including New Zealand white rabbits, transduced or transgenic mice
that express human dipeptidyl peptidase 4, rhesus macaques, and common marmosets.
This review provides an overview of the current state of knowledge on human
MERS-CoV infections, the probable origin of MERS-CoV, and the available animal
models of MERS-CoV infection. Evaluation of the benefits and limitations of these
models will aid in appropriate model selection for studying viral pathogenesis
and transmission, as well as for testing vaccines and antivirals against
MERS-CoV.

© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985815620845 
PMID: 26869154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1105. Int J Exp Pathol. 2015 Dec;96(6):414-26. doi: 10.1111/iep.12161. Epub 2016 Jan
19.

Characterization of lesion formation in marmosets following inhalational
challenge with different strains of Burkholderia pseudomallei.

Nelson M(1), Nunez A(2), Ngugi SA(1), Sinclair A(1), Atkins TP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology Group, CBR Division, Dstl, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK.
(2)Animal Plant and Health Agency, Addlestone, Surrey, UK.

The marmoset model of melioidosis was used to explore whether there was any
difference in the disease presentation and/or the lesion formation following
inhalational challenge with one of four strains of Burkholderia pseudomallei
(K96243, 1026b, HBPUB10303a and HBPUB10134a). Marmosets were challenged with a
range of bacterial doses and bacterial load, histological and physiological
features were determined temporally following lethal disease. Melioidosis
presented as an acute, febrile disease with bacteraemia, bacterial dissemination,
necrotizing hepatitis, splenitis and pneumonia which was independent of the
challenge strain. Generally, there were no major differences in the manifestation
of melioidosis following challenge by the different strains of B. pseudomallei;
however, there were some differences in the time to death and the severity of the
pathological features. The pathological features observed in the liver and spleen
of animals challenged with B. pseudomallei strain 1026b were statistically less
severe (P < 0.05) and less frequent. However, more severe foci of disease were
evident in the lungs of animals challenged with strain 1026b. In all cases, the
lesions developed from small areas of bacteria-infected macrophages surrounded by
non-infected neutrophils into large lesions with both immune cell types infected.
The marmoset model was a useful tool enabling the distinction of subtle
difference in the pathological response to B. pseudomallei.

© 2016 Crown copyright. International Journal of Experimental Pathology published
by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Company of the International Journal of
Experimental Pathology (CIJEP).

DOI: 10.1111/iep.12161 
PMCID: PMC4744822
PMID: 26852689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

