

1105. Int J Exp Pathol. 2015 Dec;96(6):414-26. doi: 10.1111/iep.12161. Epub 2016 Jan
19.

Characterization of lesion formation in marmosets following inhalational
challenge with different strains of Burkholderia pseudomallei.

Nelson M(1), Nunez A(2), Ngugi SA(1), Sinclair A(1), Atkins TP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology Group, CBR Division, Dstl, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK.
(2)Animal Plant and Health Agency, Addlestone, Surrey, UK.

The marmoset model of melioidosis was used to explore whether there was any
difference in the disease presentation and/or the lesion formation following
inhalational challenge with one of four strains of Burkholderia pseudomallei
(K96243, 1026b, HBPUB10303a and HBPUB10134a). Marmosets were challenged with a
range of bacterial doses and bacterial load, histological and physiological
features were determined temporally following lethal disease. Melioidosis
presented as an acute, febrile disease with bacteraemia, bacterial dissemination,
necrotizing hepatitis, splenitis and pneumonia which was independent of the
challenge strain. Generally, there were no major differences in the manifestation
of melioidosis following challenge by the different strains of B. pseudomallei;
however, there were some differences in the time to death and the severity of the
pathological features. The pathological features observed in the liver and spleen
of animals challenged with B. pseudomallei strain 1026b were statistically less
severe (P < 0.05) and less frequent. However, more severe foci of disease were
evident in the lungs of animals challenged with strain 1026b. In all cases, the
lesions developed from small areas of bacteria-infected macrophages surrounded by
non-infected neutrophils into large lesions with both immune cell types infected.
The marmoset model was a useful tool enabling the distinction of subtle
difference in the pathological response to B. pseudomallei.

Â© 2016 Crown copyright. International Journal of Experimental Pathology published
by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Company of the International Journal of
Experimental Pathology (CIJEP).

DOI: 10.1111/iep.12161 
PMCID: PMC4744822
PMID: 26852689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Anim Cogn. 2016 May;19(3):673-7. doi: 10.1007/s10071-016-0959-4. Epub 2016 Feb 3.

Touchscreen assays of learning, response inhibition, and motivation in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kangas BD(1), Bergman J(2), Coyle JT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, McLean Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA, 02478, 
USA. bkangas@mclean.harvard.edu.
(2)Harvard Medical School, McLean Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA, 02478, 
USA.

Recent developments in precision gene editing have led to the emergence of the
marmoset as an experimental subject of considerable interest and translational
value. A better understanding of behavioral phenotypes of the common marmoset
will inform the extent to which forthcoming transgenic mutants are cognitively
intact. Therefore, additional information regarding their learning, inhibitory
control, and motivational abilities is needed. The present studies used
touchscreen-based repeated acquisition and discrimination reversal tasks to
examine basic dimensions of learning and response inhibition. Marmosets were
trained daily to respond to one of the two simultaneously presented novel
stimuli. Subjects learned to discriminate the two stimuli (acquisition) and,
subsequently, with the contingencies switched (reversal). In addition,
progressive ratio performance was used to measure the effort expended to obtain a
highly palatable reinforcer varying in magnitude and, thereby, provide an index
of relative motivational value. Results indicate that rates of both acquisition
and reversal of novel discriminations increased across successive sessions, but
that rate of reversal learning remained slower than acquisition learning, i.e.,
more trials were needed for mastery. A positive correlation was observed between 
progressive ratio break point and reinforcement magnitude. These results closely 
replicate previous findings with squirrel monkeys, thus providing evidence of
similarity in learning processes across nonhuman primate species. Moreover, these
data provide key information about the normative phenotype of wild-type marmosets
using three relevant behavioral endpoints.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-016-0959-4 
PMCID: PMC4826304
PMID: 26846231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

