

1106. Anim Cogn. 2016 May;19(3):673-7. doi: 10.1007/s10071-016-0959-4. Epub 2016 Feb 3.

Touchscreen assays of learning, response inhibition, and motivation in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kangas BD(1), Bergman J(2), Coyle JT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, McLean Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA, 02478, 
USA. bkangas@mclean.harvard.edu.
(2)Harvard Medical School, McLean Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA, 02478, 
USA.

Recent developments in precision gene editing have led to the emergence of the
marmoset as an experimental subject of considerable interest and translational
value. A better understanding of behavioral phenotypes of the common marmoset
will inform the extent to which forthcoming transgenic mutants are cognitively
intact. Therefore, additional information regarding their learning, inhibitory
control, and motivational abilities is needed. The present studies used
touchscreen-based repeated acquisition and discrimination reversal tasks to
examine basic dimensions of learning and response inhibition. Marmosets were
trained daily to respond to one of the two simultaneously presented novel
stimuli. Subjects learned to discriminate the two stimuli (acquisition) and,
subsequently, with the contingencies switched (reversal). In addition,
progressive ratio performance was used to measure the effort expended to obtain a
highly palatable reinforcer varying in magnitude and, thereby, provide an index
of relative motivational value. Results indicate that rates of both acquisition
and reversal of novel discriminations increased across successive sessions, but
that rate of reversal learning remained slower than acquisition learning, i.e.,
more trials were needed for mastery. A positive correlation was observed between 
progressive ratio break point and reinforcement magnitude. These results closely 
replicate previous findings with squirrel monkeys, thus providing evidence of
similarity in learning processes across nonhuman primate species. Moreover, these
data provide key information about the normative phenotype of wild-type marmosets
using three relevant behavioral endpoints.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-016-0959-4 
PMCID: PMC4826304
PMID: 26846231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1107. Horm Behav. 2016 Apr;80:10-18. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2016.01.008. Epub 2016 Feb 1.

Oxytocin is associated with infant-care behavior and motivation in cooperatively 
breeding marmoset monkeys.

Finkenwirth C(1), Martins E(2), Deschner T(3), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
christa.finkenwirth@uzh.ch.
(2)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103
Leipzig, Germany.

The neurohormone oxytocin (OT) is positively involved in the regulation of
parenting and social bonding in mammals, and may thus also be important for the
mediation of alloparental care. In cooperatively breeding marmosets, infants are 
raised in teamwork by parents and adult and sub-adult non-reproductive helpers
(usually older siblings). Despite high intrinsic motivation, which may be
mediated by hormonal priming, not all individuals are always equally able to
contribute to infant-care due to competition among care-takers. Among the various
care-taking behaviors, proactive food sharing may reflect motivational levels
best, since it can be performed ad libitum by several individuals even if
competition among surplus care-takers constrains access to infants. Our aim was
to study the link between urinary OT levels and care-taking behaviors in
group-living marmosets, while taking affiliation with other adults and infant age
into account. Over eight reproductive cycles, 26 individuals were monitored for
urinary baseline OT, care-taking behaviors (baby-licking, -grooming, -carrying,
and proactive food sharing), and adult-directed affiliation. Mean OT levels were 
generally highest in female breeders and OT increased significantly in all
individuals after birth. During early infancy, high urinary OT levels were
associated with increased infant-licking but low levels of adult-affiliation, and
during late infancy, with increased proactive food sharing. Our results show
that, in marmoset parents and alloparents, OT is positively involved in the
regulation of care-taking, thereby reflecting the changing needs during infant
development. This particularly included behaviors that are more likely to reflect
intrinsic care motivation, suggesting a positive link between OT and motivational
regulation of infant-care.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2016.01.008 
PMID: 26836769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

