

1107. Horm Behav. 2016 Apr;80:10-18. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2016.01.008. Epub 2016 Feb 1.

Oxytocin is associated with infant-care behavior and motivation in cooperatively 
breeding marmoset monkeys.

Finkenwirth C(1), Martins E(2), Deschner T(3), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
christa.finkenwirth@uzh.ch.
(2)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103
Leipzig, Germany.

The neurohormone oxytocin (OT) is positively involved in the regulation of
parenting and social bonding in mammals, and may thus also be important for the
mediation of alloparental care. In cooperatively breeding marmosets, infants are 
raised in teamwork by parents and adult and sub-adult non-reproductive helpers
(usually older siblings). Despite high intrinsic motivation, which may be
mediated by hormonal priming, not all individuals are always equally able to
contribute to infant-care due to competition among care-takers. Among the various
care-taking behaviors, proactive food sharing may reflect motivational levels
best, since it can be performed ad libitum by several individuals even if
competition among surplus care-takers constrains access to infants. Our aim was
to study the link between urinary OT levels and care-taking behaviors in
group-living marmosets, while taking affiliation with other adults and infant age
into account. Over eight reproductive cycles, 26 individuals were monitored for
urinary baseline OT, care-taking behaviors (baby-licking, -grooming, -carrying,
and proactive food sharing), and adult-directed affiliation. Mean OT levels were 
generally highest in female breeders and OT increased significantly in all
individuals after birth. During early infancy, high urinary OT levels were
associated with increased infant-licking but low levels of adult-affiliation, and
during late infancy, with increased proactive food sharing. Our results show
that, in marmoset parents and alloparents, OT is positively involved in the
regulation of care-taking, thereby reflecting the changing needs during infant
development. This particularly included behaviors that are more likely to reflect
intrinsic care motivation, suggesting a positive link between OT and motivational
regulation of infant-care.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2016.01.008 
PMID: 26836769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1108. Primates. 2016 Apr;57(2):267-77. doi: 10.1007/s10329-016-0514-6. Epub 2016 Feb 1.

Fecal glucocorticoid metabolite responses to management stressors and social
change in four species of callitrichine monkeys.

Wark JD(1)(2)(3), Amendolagine L(4), Lukas KE(4)(5), Kuhar CW(4)(5), Dennis
PM(4)(5)(6), Snowdon CT(7), Schoffner T(4), Schook MW(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cleveland Metroparks Zoo, 3900 Wildlife Way, Cleveland, OH, 44109, USA.
jwark@lpzoo.org.
(2)Department of Biology, Case Western Reserve University, 2080 Adelbert Rd,
Cleveland, OH, 44106, USA. jwark@lpzoo.org.
(3)Lincoln Park Zoo, 2001 N. Clark St, Chicago, IL, 60614, USA. jwark@lpzoo.org.
(4)Cleveland Metroparks Zoo, 3900 Wildlife Way, Cleveland, OH, 44109, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Case Western Reserve University, 2080 Adelbert Rd,
Cleveland, OH, 44106, USA.
(6)Department of Veterinary Preventative Medicine, Ohio State University, 1920
Coffey Rd, Columbus, OH, 43210, USA.
(7)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1202 West Johnson
St, Madison, WI, 53706, USA.

The use of enzyme immunoassays (EIA) for the non-invasive measurement of
glucocorticoids provides a valuable tool for monitoring health and welfare in
sensitive species. We validated methods for measuring fecal glucocorticoid
metabolites (FGM) using the response to veterinary exams for four species of
callitrichine monkeys: golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia, n = 7),
callimico (Callimico goeldii, n = 2), pied tamarin (Saguinus bicolor, n = 2), and
white-fronted marmoset (Callithrix geoffroyi, n = 2). Routine veterinary exams
were performed for the golden lion tamarins and callimicos, but exams for the
pied tamarins and white-fronted marmosets were prompted by the death of a social 
partner. Prior to veterinary exams, fecal markers were evaluated to allow
collection of individual samples and estimate approximate gut transit times.
Based on this assessment, individual markers were fed in the afternoon, and fresh
morning fecal samples were collected throughout this study. Following a
veterinary exam, FGM increased roughly 3- to 28-fold above baseline in all
species. Although FGM for most species returned to baseline concentrations within
24-48 h, the marmosets exhibited a progressive increase in FGM after an exam in
response to the death of a breeding female and subsequent hand-rearing of a
neonate. Individual differences were noted in the callimicos and tamarins, with
higher baseline FGM levels in females vs. males, although small sample size
precluded a clear determination of sex differences. To our knowledge, this is the
first study to measure FGM in callimicos and white-fronted marmosets and the
first to compare FGM across callitrichine species. These findings highlight the
broad applicability of this EIA to measure the stress response of callitrichine
monkeys. The progressive increase in FGM in the marmosets during hand-rearing of 
a neonate suggests that care should be taken to minimize this disturbance as much
as possible.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-016-0514-6 
PMID: 26831854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

