

1108. Primates. 2016 Apr;57(2):267-77. doi: 10.1007/s10329-016-0514-6. Epub 2016 Feb 1.

Fecal glucocorticoid metabolite responses to management stressors and social
change in four species of callitrichine monkeys.

Wark JD(1)(2)(3), Amendolagine L(4), Lukas KE(4)(5), Kuhar CW(4)(5), Dennis
PM(4)(5)(6), Snowdon CT(7), Schoffner T(4), Schook MW(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cleveland Metroparks Zoo, 3900 Wildlife Way, Cleveland, OH, 44109, USA.
jwark@lpzoo.org.
(2)Department of Biology, Case Western Reserve University, 2080 Adelbert Rd,
Cleveland, OH, 44106, USA. jwark@lpzoo.org.
(3)Lincoln Park Zoo, 2001 N. Clark St, Chicago, IL, 60614, USA. jwark@lpzoo.org.
(4)Cleveland Metroparks Zoo, 3900 Wildlife Way, Cleveland, OH, 44109, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Case Western Reserve University, 2080 Adelbert Rd,
Cleveland, OH, 44106, USA.
(6)Department of Veterinary Preventative Medicine, Ohio State University, 1920
Coffey Rd, Columbus, OH, 43210, USA.
(7)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1202 West Johnson
St, Madison, WI, 53706, USA.

The use of enzyme immunoassays (EIA) for the non-invasive measurement of
glucocorticoids provides a valuable tool for monitoring health and welfare in
sensitive species. We validated methods for measuring fecal glucocorticoid
metabolites (FGM) using the response to veterinary exams for four species of
callitrichine monkeys: golden lion tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia, n = 7),
callimico (Callimico goeldii, n = 2), pied tamarin (Saguinus bicolor, n = 2), and
white-fronted marmoset (Callithrix geoffroyi, n = 2). Routine veterinary exams
were performed for the golden lion tamarins and callimicos, but exams for the
pied tamarins and white-fronted marmosets were prompted by the death of a social 
partner. Prior to veterinary exams, fecal markers were evaluated to allow
collection of individual samples and estimate approximate gut transit times.
Based on this assessment, individual markers were fed in the afternoon, and fresh
morning fecal samples were collected throughout this study. Following a
veterinary exam, FGM increased roughly 3- to 28-fold above baseline in all
species. Although FGM for most species returned to baseline concentrations within
24-48 h, the marmosets exhibited a progressive increase in FGM after an exam in
response to the death of a breeding female and subsequent hand-rearing of a
neonate. Individual differences were noted in the callimicos and tamarins, with
higher baseline FGM levels in females vs. males, although small sample size
precluded a clear determination of sex differences. To our knowledge, this is the
first study to measure FGM in callimicos and white-fronted marmosets and the
first to compare FGM across callitrichine species. These findings highlight the
broad applicability of this EIA to measure the stress response of callitrichine
monkeys. The progressive increase in FGM in the marmosets during hand-rearing of 
a neonate suggests that care should be taken to minimize this disturbance as much
as possible.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-016-0514-6 
PMID: 26831854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. Parasit Vectors. 2016 Jan 26;9:39. doi: 10.1186/s13071-016-1334-7.

Vector-borne transmission of Trypanosoma cruzi among captive Neotropical primates
in a Brazilian zoo.

Minuzzi-Souza TT(1), Nitz N(2), Knox MB(3), Reis F(4), Hagström L(5), Cuba CA(6),
Hecht MM(7), Gurgel-Gonçalves R(8).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Parasitologia Médica e Biologia de Vetores, Área de Patologia, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Brasília, Campus Universitário Darcy
Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, 70910-900, Distrito Federal, Brazil.
thaistam@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Laboratório Interdisciplinar de Biociências, Faculdade de Medicina,
Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil. nnitz@unb.br.
(3)Diretoria de Vigilância Ambiental do Distrito Federal, Secretaria de Saúde,
Brasília, Federal District, Brazil. monaknox@gmail.com.
(4)Fundação Jardim Zoológico de Brasília, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil.
filipereisbio@gmail.com.
(5)Laboratório Interdisciplinar de Biociências, Faculdade de Medicina,
Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil. loubex@hotmail.com.
(6)Laboratório de Parasitologia Médica e Biologia de Vetores, Área de Patologia, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Brasília, Campus Universitário Darcy
Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, 70910-900, Distrito Federal, Brazil.
cesarcuba@hotmail.com.
(7)Laboratório Interdisciplinar de Biociências, Faculdade de Medicina,
Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil.
marianahecht@gmail.com.
(8)Laboratório de Parasitologia Médica e Biologia de Vetores, Área de Patologia, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Brasília, Campus Universitário Darcy
Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, 70910-900, Distrito Federal, Brazil.
gurgelrg@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Neotropical primates are important sylvatic hosts of Trypanosoma
cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. Infection is often subclinical,
but severe disease has been described in both free-ranging and captive primates. 
Panstrongylus megistus, a major T. cruzi vector, was found infesting a
small-primate unit at Brasília zoo (ZooB), Brazil. ZooB lies close to a
gallery-forest patch where T. cruzi circulates naturally. Here, we combine
parasitological and molecular methods to investigate a focus of T. cruzi
infection involving triatomine bugs and Neotropical primates at a zoo located in 
the Brazilian Savannah.
METHODS: We assessed T. cruzi infection in vectors using optical microscopy
(n = 34) and nested PCR (n = 50). We used quantitative PCR (qPCR) to examine
blood samples from 26 primates and necropsy samples from two primates that died
during the study. We determined parasite lineages in five vectors and two
primates by comparing glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (G6pi) gene sequences.
RESULTS: Trypanosoma cruzi was found in 44 vectors and 17 primates (six genera
and eight species); one Mico chrysoleucus and one Saguinus niger had high
parasitaemias. Trypanosoma cruzi DNA was detected in three primates born to
qPCR-negative mothers at ZooB and in the two dead specimens. One Callithrix
geoffroyi became qPCR-positive over a two-year follow-up. All G6pi sequences
matched T. cruzi lineage TcI.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings strongly suggest vector-borne T. cruzi transmission
within a small-primate unit at ZooB - with vectors, and perhaps also parasites,
presumably coming from nearby gallery forest. Periodic checks for vectors and
parasites would help eliminate T. cruzi transmission foci in captive-animal
facilities. This should be of special importance for captive-breeding programs
involving endangered mammals, and would reduce the risk of accidental T. cruzi
transmission to keepers and veterinarians.

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-016-1334-7 
PMCID: PMC4727406
PMID: 26813657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

