

1115. Bull Exp Biol Med. 2016 Jan;160(3):368-71. doi: 10.1007/s10517-016-3173-0. Epub
2016 Jan 11.

Simulation of Viral Hepatitis E in Marmosets.

Kyuregyan KK(1), Poleshchuk VF(2), Gordeichuk IV(2), Gulyaeva TV(2), Isaeva
OV(2), Morozov IA(2), Mikhailov MI(2).

Author information: 
(1)M. P. Chumakov Institute of Poliomyelitis and Viral Encephalitides, Russian
Academy of Medical Sciences, Moscow, Russia. karen-kyuregyan@yandex.ru.
(2)M. P. Chumakov Institute of Poliomyelitis and Viral Encephalitides, Russian
Academy of Medical Sciences, Moscow, Russia.

We developed a model of hepatitis E virus infection in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) and determined optimal route of infection, duration,
clinical and virological characteristics of infection in laboratory animals.
Using this model, we demonstrated that replication of hepatitis E virus primarily
occurs in the liver, while virus replication presumed to take place in the
intestine was not confirmed in this experiment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10517-016-3173-0 
PMID: 26750931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Physiol Behav. 2016 Mar 1;155:242-9. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2015.12.023. Epub
2015 Dec 24.

Circadian activity rhythm in pre-pubertal and pubertal marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) living in family groups.

Melo PR(1), Gonçalves BS(2), Menezes AA(1), Azevedo CV(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil; Instituto Federal Sudeste de Minas Gerais, Campus Barbacena, MG,
Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil. Electronic address: carolina@cb.ufrn.br.

In marmosets, a phase advance was observed in activity onset in pubertal animals 
living in captivity under semi-natural conditions which had stronger correlation 
with the times of sunrise over the course of the year than the age of the animal.
In order to evaluate the effect of puberty on the circadian activity rhythm in
male and female marmosets living in family groups in controlled lighting
conditions, the activity of 5 dyads of twins (4 ♀/♂ and 1 ♂/♂) and their
respective parents was continuously monitored by actiwatches between the 4th and 
12th months of age. The families were kept under LD 12:12 h with constant
humidity and temperature. The onset of puberty was identified by monitoring fecal
steroids. Juveniles showed higher totals of daily activity and differences in the
daily distribution of activity in relation to parents, in which the bimodal
profile was characterized by higher levels in evening activity in relation to
morning activity. Regarding the phase, the activity onset and offset, occurred
later in relation to parents. After entering puberty, the activity onset and
offset occurred later and there was an increase in total daily activity. On the
other hand, when assessing the effect of sex, only females showed a delay in the 
activity offset and an increase in total daily activity. Therefore, the circadian
activity rhythm in marmosets has peculiar characteristics in the juvenile stage
in relation to the total of daily activity, the onset and offset of the active
phase, and the distribution of activity during this phase. Besides, the entering 
puberty was associated with a phase delay and increase on total daily activity,
with differences between sexes, possibly due to hormonal influences and/or social
modulation on rhythm.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2015.12.023 
PMID: 26724713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

