

1117. Am J Pathol. 2016 Mar;186(3):630-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.10.025. Epub 2015 
Dec 24.

An Acute Immune Response to Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus
Replication Contributes to Viral Pathogenicity.

Baseler LJ(1), Falzarano D(2), Scott DP(3), Rosenke R(3), Thomas T(2), Munster
VJ(2), Feldmann H(2), de Wit E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana; Department of Comparative Pathobiology, Purdue University, West
Lafayette, Indiana.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana.
(3)Rocky Mountain Veterinary Branch, Division of Intramural Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories,
Hamilton, Montana.
(4)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana. Electronic address: emmie.dewit@nih.gov.

Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was first identified in a
human with severe pneumonia in 2012. Since then, infections have been detected in
>1500 individuals, with disease severity ranging from asymptomatic to severe,
fatal pneumonia. To elucidate the pathogenesis of this virus and investigate
mechanisms underlying disease severity variation in the absence of autopsy data, 
a rhesus macaque and common marmoset model of MERS-CoV disease were analyzed.
Rhesus macaques developed mild disease, and common marmosets exhibited moderate
to severe, potentially lethal, disease. Both nonhuman primate species exhibited
respiratory clinical signs after inoculation, which were more severe and of
longer duration in the marmosets, and developed bronchointerstitial pneumonia. In
marmosets, the pneumonia was more extensive, with development of severe airway
lesions. Quantitative analysis showed significantly higher levels of pulmonary
neutrophil infiltration and higher amounts of pulmonary viral antigen in
marmosets. Pulmonary expression of the MERS-CoV receptor, dipeptidyl peptidase 4,
was similar in marmosets and macaques. These results suggest that increased virus
replication and the local immune response to MERS-CoV infection likely play a
role in pulmonary pathology severity. Together, the rhesus macaque and common
marmoset models of MERS-CoV span the wide range of disease severity reported in
MERS-CoV-infected humans, which will aid in investigating MERS-CoV disease
pathogenesis.

Copyright Â© 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.10.025 
PMCID: PMC4816712 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26724387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. Toxicol Rep. 2016;3:29-45.

Sequencing the exposome: A call to action.

Jones DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta GA 30322 USA.

The exposome is a complement to the genome that includes non-genetic causes of
disease. Multiple definitions are available, with salient points being global
inclusion of exposures and behaviors, and cumulative integration of associated
biologic responses. As such, the concept is both refreshingly simple and
dauntingly complex. This article reviews high-resolution metabolomics (HRM) as an
affordable approach to routinely analyze samples for a broad spectrum of
environmental chemicals and biologic responses. HRM has been successfully used in
multiple exposome research paradigms and is suitable to implement in a prototype 
universal exposure surveillance system. Development of such a structure for
systematic monitoring of environmental exposures is an important step toward
sequencing the exposome because it builds upon successes of exposure science,
naturally connects external exposure to body burden and partitions the exposome
into workable components. Practical results would be repositories of quantitative
data on chemicals according to geography and biology. This would support new
opportunities for environmental health analysis and predictive modeling.
Complementary approaches to hasten development of exposome theory and associated 
biologic response networks could include experimental studies with model systems,
analysis of archival samples from longitudinal studies with outcome data and
study of relatively short-lived animals, such as household pets (dogs and cats)
and non-human primates (common marmoset). International investment and
cooperation to sequence the human exposome will advance scientific knowledge and 
also provide an important foundation to control adverse environmental exposures
to sustain healthy living spaces and improve prediction and management of
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2015.11.009 
PMCID: PMC4692045
PMID: 26722641 

