

1118. Toxicol Rep. 2016;3:29-45.

Sequencing the exposome: A call to action.

Jones DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta GA 30322 USA.

The exposome is a complement to the genome that includes non-genetic causes of
disease. Multiple definitions are available, with salient points being global
inclusion of exposures and behaviors, and cumulative integration of associated
biologic responses. As such, the concept is both refreshingly simple and
dauntingly complex. This article reviews high-resolution metabolomics (HRM) as an
affordable approach to routinely analyze samples for a broad spectrum of
environmental chemicals and biologic responses. HRM has been successfully used in
multiple exposome research paradigms and is suitable to implement in a prototype 
universal exposure surveillance system. Development of such a structure for
systematic monitoring of environmental exposures is an important step toward
sequencing the exposome because it builds upon successes of exposure science,
naturally connects external exposure to body burden and partitions the exposome
into workable components. Practical results would be repositories of quantitative
data on chemicals according to geography and biology. This would support new
opportunities for environmental health analysis and predictive modeling.
Complementary approaches to hasten development of exposome theory and associated 
biologic response networks could include experimental studies with model systems,
analysis of archival samples from longitudinal studies with outcome data and
study of relatively short-lived animals, such as household pets (dogs and cats)
and non-human primates (common marmoset). International investment and
cooperation to sequence the human exposome will advance scientific knowledge and 
also provide an important foundation to control adverse environmental exposures
to sustain healthy living spaces and improve prediction and management of
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxrep.2015.11.009 
PMCID: PMC4692045
PMID: 26722641 


1119. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 19;113(3):781-6. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1516120113.
Epub 2015 Dec 28.

Complex pitch perception mechanisms are shared by humans and a New World monkey.

Song X(1), Osmanski MS(2), Guo Y(2), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205
songxindong@jhmi.edu xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205.

The perception of the pitch of harmonic complex sounds is a crucial function of
human audition, especially in music and speech processing. Whether the underlying
mechanisms of pitch perception are unique to humans, however, is unknown. Based
on estimates of frequency resolution at the level of the auditory periphery,
psychoacoustic studies in humans have revealed several primary features of
central pitch mechanisms. It has been shown that (i) pitch strength of a harmonic
tone is dominated by resolved harmonics; (ii) pitch of resolved harmonics is
sensitive to the quality of spectral harmonicity; and (iii) pitch of unresolved
harmonics is sensitive to the salience of temporal envelope cues. Here we show,
for a standard musical tuning fundamental frequency of 440 Hz, that the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey with a hearing range similar to
that of humans, exhibits all of the primary features of central pitch mechanisms 
demonstrated in humans. Thus, marmosets and humans may share similar pitch
perception mechanisms, suggesting that these mechanisms may have emerged early in
primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1516120113 
PMCID: PMC4725463
PMID: 26712015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

