

1122. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2016 Jan;75(1):86-98.

Elevated Expression of the Cerebrospinal Fluid Disease Markers Chromogranin A and
Clusterin in Astrocytes of Multiple Sclerosis White Matter Lesions.

van Luijn MM, van Meurs M, Stoop MP, Verbraak E, Wierenga-Wolf AF, Melief MJ,
Kreft KL, Verdijk RM, 't Hart BA, Luider TM, Laman JD, Hintzen RQ.

Using proteomics, we previously identified chromogranin A (CgA) and clusterin
(CLU) as disease-related proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients
with multiple sclerosis (MS). CgA and CLU are involved in cell survival and are
implicated in neurodegenerative disorders and may also have roles in MS
pathophysiology. We investigated CgA and CLU expression in lesions and
nonlesional regions in postmortem brains of MS patients and controls and in the
brains of marmosets with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. By
quantitative PCR, mRNA levels of CgA and CLU were elevated in white matter but
not in grey matter of MS patients. In situ analyses showed greater expression of 
CgA and CLU in white matter lesions than in normal-appearing regions in MS
patients and in the marmosets, primarily in or adjacent to perivascular spaces
and inflammatory infiltrates. Both proteins were expressed by glial fibrillary
acidic protein-positive astrocytes. CgA was more localized in astrocytic
processes and endfeet surrounding blood vessels and was abundant in the
superficial glia limitans and ependyma, 2 CSF-brain borders. Increased expression
of CgA and CLU in reactive astrocytes in MS white matter lesions supports a role 
for these molecules as neuro-inflammatory mediators and their potential as CSF
markers of active pathological processes in MS patients.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlv004 
PMID: 26683597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Behav Brain Res. 2016 Mar 1;300:25-30. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.11.028. Epub 2015 
Dec 7.

The dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF-82958 effectively increases eye blinking
count in common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Kiyoshi A(1), Murai T(1), Nakako T(1), Matsumoto K(1), Matsumoto
A(1), Ikejiri M(1), Ogi Y(1), Ikeda K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab, Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan.
(2)Ikeda Lab, Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan. Electronic address:
kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Eye blinking is a spontaneous behavior observed in all mammals, and has been used
as a well-established clinical indicator for dopamine production in
neuropsychiatric disorders, including Parkinson's disease and Tourette syndrome
[1,2]. Pharmacological studies in humans and non-human primates have shown that
dopamine agonists/antagonists increase/decrease eye blinking rate. Common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have recently attracted a great deal of attention 
as suitable experimental animals in the psychoneurological field due to their
more developed prefrontal cortex than rodents, easy handling compare to other
non-human primates, and requirement for small amounts of test drugs. In this
study, we evaluated the effects of dopamine D1-4 receptors agonists on eye
blinking in common marmosets. Our results show that the dopamine D1 receptor
agonist SKF-82958 and the non-selective dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine
significantly increased common marmosets eye blinking count, whereas the dopamine
D2 agonist (+)-PHNO and the dopamine D3 receptor agonist (+)-PD-128907 produced
somnolence in common marmosets resulting in a decrease in eye blinking count. The
dopamine D4 receptor agonists PD-168077 and A-41297 had no effect on common
marmosets' eye blinking count. Finally, the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH
39166 completely blocked apomorphine-induced increase in eye blinking count.
These results indicate that eye blinking in common marmosets may be a useful tool
for in vivo screening of novel dopamine D1 receptor agonists as antipsychotics.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.11.028 
PMID: 26675887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

