

1123. Behav Brain Res. 2016 Mar 1;300:25-30. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.11.028. Epub 2015 
Dec 7.

The dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF-82958 effectively increases eye blinking
count in common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Kiyoshi A(1), Murai T(1), Nakako T(1), Matsumoto K(1), Matsumoto
A(1), Ikejiri M(1), Ogi Y(1), Ikeda K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab, Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan.
(2)Ikeda Lab, Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan. Electronic address:
kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Eye blinking is a spontaneous behavior observed in all mammals, and has been used
as a well-established clinical indicator for dopamine production in
neuropsychiatric disorders, including Parkinson's disease and Tourette syndrome
[1,2]. Pharmacological studies in humans and non-human primates have shown that
dopamine agonists/antagonists increase/decrease eye blinking rate. Common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have recently attracted a great deal of attention 
as suitable experimental animals in the psychoneurological field due to their
more developed prefrontal cortex than rodents, easy handling compare to other
non-human primates, and requirement for small amounts of test drugs. In this
study, we evaluated the effects of dopamine D1-4 receptors agonists on eye
blinking in common marmosets. Our results show that the dopamine D1 receptor
agonist SKF-82958 and the non-selective dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine
significantly increased common marmosets eye blinking count, whereas the dopamine
D2 agonist (+)-PHNO and the dopamine D3 receptor agonist (+)-PD-128907 produced
somnolence in common marmosets resulting in a decrease in eye blinking count. The
dopamine D4 receptor agonists PD-168077 and A-41297 had no effect on common
marmosets' eye blinking count. Finally, the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH
39166 completely blocked apomorphine-induced increase in eye blinking count.
These results indicate that eye blinking in common marmosets may be a useful tool
for in vivo screening of novel dopamine D1 receptor agonists as antipsychotics.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.11.028 
PMID: 26675887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. Chromosoma. 2016 Sep;125(4):747-56. doi: 10.1007/s00412-015-0565-2. Epub 2015 Dec
14.

The 14/15 association as a paradigmatic example of tracing karyotype evolution in
New World monkeys.

Capozzi O(1), Archidiacono N(1), Lorusso N(1), Stanyon R(2), Rocchi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
roscoe.stanyon@unifi.it.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
rocchi@biologia.uniba.it.

Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), especially chromosome painting, has
been extensively exploited in the phylogenetic reconstruction of primate
evolution. Although chromosome painting is a key method to map translocations, it
is not effective in detecting chromosome inversions, which may be up to four
times more frequent than other chromosomal rearrangements. BAC-FISH instead can
economically delineate marker order and reveal intrachromosomal rearrangements.
However, up to now, BAC-FISH was rarely used to study the chromosomes of New
World monkeys partly due to technical difficulties. In this paper, we used
BAC-FISH to disentangle the complex evolutionary history of the ancestral 14/15
association in NWMs, beginning from the squirrel monkey (Saimiri boliviensis). To
improve the hybridization efficiency of BAC-FISH in NWMs, we "translated" the
human BACs into Callithrix jacchus (CJA) BACs, which yielded much higher
hybridization efficiencies on other NWM species than human BACs. Our results
disclosed 14 synteny blocks in squirrel monkeys, 7 more than with chromosome
painting. We then applied a subset of CJA BACs on six other NWM species. The
comparison of the hybridization pattern of these species contained phylogenetic
information to discriminate evolutionary relationships. Notably Aotus was found
to share an inversion with Callithrix, thus definitely assigning the genus Aotus 
to Cebidae. The present study can be seen as a paradigmatic approach to
investigate the phylogenetics of NWMs by molecular cytogenetics.

DOI: 10.1007/s00412-015-0565-2 
PMID: 26667930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

