

1124. Chromosoma. 2016 Sep;125(4):747-56. doi: 10.1007/s00412-015-0565-2. Epub 2015 Dec
14.

The 14/15 association as a paradigmatic example of tracing karyotype evolution in
New World monkeys.

Capozzi O(1), Archidiacono N(1), Lorusso N(1), Stanyon R(2), Rocchi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
roscoe.stanyon@unifi.it.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
rocchi@biologia.uniba.it.

Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), especially chromosome painting, has
been extensively exploited in the phylogenetic reconstruction of primate
evolution. Although chromosome painting is a key method to map translocations, it
is not effective in detecting chromosome inversions, which may be up to four
times more frequent than other chromosomal rearrangements. BAC-FISH instead can
economically delineate marker order and reveal intrachromosomal rearrangements.
However, up to now, BAC-FISH was rarely used to study the chromosomes of New
World monkeys partly due to technical difficulties. In this paper, we used
BAC-FISH to disentangle the complex evolutionary history of the ancestral 14/15
association in NWMs, beginning from the squirrel monkey (Saimiri boliviensis). To
improve the hybridization efficiency of BAC-FISH in NWMs, we "translated" the
human BACs into Callithrix jacchus (CJA) BACs, which yielded much higher
hybridization efficiencies on other NWM species than human BACs. Our results
disclosed 14 synteny blocks in squirrel monkeys, 7 more than with chromosome
painting. We then applied a subset of CJA BACs on six other NWM species. The
comparison of the hybridization pattern of these species contained phylogenetic
information to discriminate evolutionary relationships. Notably Aotus was found
to share an inversion with Callithrix, thus definitely assigning the genus Aotus 
to Cebidae. The present study can be seen as a paradigmatic approach to
investigate the phylogenetics of NWMs by molecular cytogenetics.

DOI: 10.1007/s00412-015-0565-2 
PMID: 26667930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. Stem Cells Int. 2016;2016:2480298. doi: 10.1155/2016/2480298. Epub 2015 Nov 9.

Long-Term Oocyte-Like Cell Development in Cultures Derived from Neonatal Marmoset
Monkey Ovary.

Fereydouni B(1), Salinas-Riester G(2), Heistermann M(3), Dressel R(4), Lewerich
L(1), Drummer C(1), Behr R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Microarray and Deep-Sequencing Core Facility, University Medical Center
Göttingen (UMG), Justus-von-Liebig-Weg 11, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Endocrinology Laboratory, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate 
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Cellular and Molecular Immunology, University of Göttingen,
Humboldtallee 34, 37073 Göttingen, Germany.

We use the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) as a preclinical nonhuman 
primate model to study reproductive and stem cell biology. The neonatal marmoset 
monkey ovary contains numerous primitive premeiotic germ cells (oogonia)
expressing pluripotent stem cell markers including OCT4A (POU5F1). This is a
peculiarity compared to neonatal human and rodent ovaries. Here, we aimed at
culturing marmoset oogonia from neonatal ovaries. We established a culture system
being stable for more than 20 passages and 5 months. Importantly, comparative
transcriptome analysis of the cultured cells with neonatal ovary, embryonic stem 
cells, and fibroblasts revealed a lack of germ cell and pluripotency genes
indicating the complete loss of oogonia upon initiation of the culture. From
passage 4 onwards, however, the cultured cells produced large spherical,
free-floating cells resembling oocyte-like cells (OLCs). OLCs strongly expressed 
several germ cell genes and may derive from the ovarian surface epithelium. In
summary, our novel primate ovarian cell culture initially lacked detectable germ 
cells but then produced OLCs over a long period of time. This culture system may 
allow a deeper analysis of early phases of female primate germ cell development
and-after significant refinement-possibly also the production of monkey oocytes.

DOI: 10.1155/2016/2480298 
PMCID: PMC4655298
PMID: 26664406 

