

1130. J Sex Med. 2015 Dec;12(12):2256-66. doi: 10.1111/jsm.13068. Epub 2015 Dec 4.

Flibanserin-Stimulated Partner Grooming Reflects Brain Metabolism Changes in
Female Marmosets.

Converse AK(1), Aubert Y(2)(3), Allers KA(4), Sommer B(4), Abbott DH(2)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.
(3)Department of Biological and Medical Psychology, University of Bergen, Bergen,
Norway.
(4)Department of CNS Diseases, Boehringer Ingelheim, Biberach, Germany.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.
(6)Endocrinology-Reproductive Physiology Training Program, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Female sexual interest and arousal disorder is personally
distressing for women. To better understand the mechanism of the candidate
therapeutic, flibanserin, we determined its effects on an index of brain glucose 
metabolism.
AIM: We hypothesized that chronic treatment with flibanserin would alter
metabolism in brain regions associated with serotonergic function and female
sexual behavior.
METHODS: In a crossover design, eight adult female common marmosets (Calithrix
jacchus) received daily flibanserin or vehicle. After 7-12 weeks of treatment,
the glucose metabolism radiotracer [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was
administered to each female immediately prior to 30 minutes of interaction with
her male pairmate, after which females were anesthetized and imaged by positron
emission tomography. Whole-brain normalized images were analyzed with
anatomically defined regions of interest. Whole-brain voxelwise mapping was used 
to explore treatment effects. Correlations were examined between alterations in
metabolism and pairmate social grooming.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in metabolism associated with flibanserin were
determined for dorsal raphe, medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), medial preoptic
area of hypothalamus (mPOA), ventromedial nucleus of hypothalamus, and field
cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) of the hippocampus.
RESULTS: In response to chronic flibanserin, metabolism in mPOA declined, and
this reduction correlated with increases in pairmate grooming. A cluster of
voxels in frontal cortico-limbic regions exhibited reduced metabolism in response
to flibanserin and overlapped with a voxel cluster in which reductions in
metabolism correlated with increases in pairmate grooming. Finally, reductions in
mPOA metabolism correlated with increases in metabolism in a cluster of voxels in
somatosensory cortex.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these results suggest that flibanserin-induced
reductions in female mPOA neural activity increase intimate affiliative behavior 
with male pairmates.

Â© 2015 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jsm.13068 
PMCID: PMC5681869
PMID: 26635207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. J Acoust Soc Am. 2015 Nov;138(5):2906-28. doi: 10.1121/1.4934268.

A quantitative acoustic analysis of the vocal repertoire of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Agamaite JA(1), Chang CJ(1), Osmanski MS(1), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate
species, has emerged in recent years as a promising animal model for studying
brain mechanisms underlying perception, vocal production, and cognition. The
present study provides a quantitative acoustic analysis of a large number of
vocalizations produced by marmosets in a social environment within a captive
colony. Previous classifications of the marmoset vocal repertoire were mostly
based on qualitative observations. In the present study a variety of
vocalizations from individually identified marmosets were sampled and multiple
acoustic features of each type of vocalization were measured. Results show that
marmosets have a complex vocal repertoire in captivity that consists of multiple 
vocalization types, including both simple calls and compound calls composed of
sequences of simple calls. A detailed quantification of the vocal repertoire of
the marmoset can serve as a solid basis for studying the behavioral significance 
of their vocalizations and is essential for carrying out studies that investigate
such properties as perceptual boundaries between call types and among individual 
callers as well as neural coding mechanisms for vocalizations. It can also serve 
as the basis for evaluating abnormal vocal behaviors resulting from diseases or
genetic manipulations.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4934268 
PMCID: PMC4644241
PMID: 26627765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

