

1131. J Acoust Soc Am. 2015 Nov;138(5):2906-28. doi: 10.1121/1.4934268.

A quantitative acoustic analysis of the vocal repertoire of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Agamaite JA(1), Chang CJ(1), Osmanski MS(1), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate
species, has emerged in recent years as a promising animal model for studying
brain mechanisms underlying perception, vocal production, and cognition. The
present study provides a quantitative acoustic analysis of a large number of
vocalizations produced by marmosets in a social environment within a captive
colony. Previous classifications of the marmoset vocal repertoire were mostly
based on qualitative observations. In the present study a variety of
vocalizations from individually identified marmosets were sampled and multiple
acoustic features of each type of vocalization were measured. Results show that
marmosets have a complex vocal repertoire in captivity that consists of multiple 
vocalization types, including both simple calls and compound calls composed of
sequences of simple calls. A detailed quantification of the vocal repertoire of
the marmoset can serve as a solid basis for studying the behavioral significance 
of their vocalizations and is essential for carrying out studies that investigate
such properties as perceptual boundaries between call types and among individual 
callers as well as neural coding mechanisms for vocalizations. It can also serve 
as the basis for evaluating abnormal vocal behaviors resulting from diseases or
genetic manipulations.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4934268 
PMCID: PMC4644241
PMID: 26627765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Cladistics. 2015 Dec;31(6):652-678. doi: 10.1111/cla.12106. Epub 2015 Jan 8.

How many marmoset (Primates: Cebidae: Callitrichinae) genera are there? A
phylogenetic analysis based on multiple morphological systems.

Garbino GST(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)IPÊ - Instituto de Pesquisas Ecológicas, C. Postal 47, 12960-000, Nazaré
Paulista, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Pós-graduação, Museu de Zoologia, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida Nazaré
481, 04263-000, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The marmosets, tribe Callitrichini, are the most speciose clade in the subfamily 
Callitrichinae, containing 21 species. However, there is no consensus among
molecular and morphological systematists as to how many genera should be
recognized for the group. To test the morphological support for the alternative
generic classifications, this study presents a comprehensive phylogenetic
analysis. It is the first such analysis to include all 21 species and employ
continuous and discrete osteological, pelage and tegument, karyological and vocal
characters. This dataset was combined with nucleotide sequences from two
mitochondrial and four nuclear regions. Separate analyses showed that, among
morphological datasets, osteological characters were best at solving
relationships at more inclusive levels, whilst pelage characters were most
informative at the interspecific level. This suggests the presence of different
transformation rates for the two character sets. When a single most parsimonious 
tree was obtained using the 83-character matrix, three main clades were
identified, supporting the division of the marmosets into three genera:
Callithrix, Cebuella and Mico. The total evidence analysis that included an
additional 3481 molecular characters corroborated most of the morphology-based
clades and also supported a three-genus classification of the marmosets. This is 
the first morphological study to support an Amazonian marmoset clade
(Cebuella + Mico), which is also strongly supported in exclusively molecular
phylogenies, and to synonimize Callibella under Mico.

© The Willi Hennig Society 2015.

DOI: 10.1111/cla.12106 
PMID: 34753268 

