

1137. J Comp Neurol. 2016 Jun 15;524(9):1839-58. doi: 10.1002/cne.23925. Epub 2015 Nov 
24.

Connectivity between the OFF bipolar type DB3a and six types of ganglion cell in 
the marmoset retina.

Masri RA(1), Percival KA(1), Koizumi A(2), Martin PR(1)(3)(4), Grünert
U(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000, Australia.
(2)National Institutes of Natural Sciences, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000, Australia.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
2000, Australia.

Erratum in
    J Comp Neurol. 2017 Mar 1;525(4):1055.

Parallel visual pathways originate at the first synapse in the retina, where
cones make connections with cone bipolar cells that in turn contact ganglion
cells. There are more ganglion cell types than bipolar types, suggesting that
there must be divergence from bipolar to ganglion cells. Here we analyze the
contacts between an OFF bipolar type (DB3a) and six ganglion cell types in the
retina of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). Ganglion cells were
transfected via particle-mediated gene transfer of an expression plasmid for the 
postsynaptic density 95-green fluorescent protein (PSD95-GFP), and DB3a cells
were labeled via immunohistochemistry. Ganglion cell types that fully or
partially costratified with DB3a cells included OFF parasol, OFF midget, broad
thorny, recursive bistratified, small bistratified, and large bistratified cells.
On average, the number of DB3a contacts to parasol cells (18 contacts per axon
terminal) is higher than that to other ganglion cell types (between four and
seven contacts). We estimate that the DB3a output to OFF parasol cells accounts
for at least 30% of the total DB3a output. Furthermore, we found that OFF parasol
cells receive approximately 20% of their total bipolar input from DB3a cells,
suggesting that other diffuse bipolar types also provide input to OFF parasol
cells. We conclude that DB3a cells preferentially contact OFF parasol cells but
also provide input to other ganglion cell types.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23925 
PMID: 26559914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Am J Primatol. 2016 Feb;78(2):216-26. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22498. Epub 2015 Nov 3.

Scratching under positive and negative arousal in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Neal SJ(1), Caine NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)California State University San Marcos, San Marcos, California.

Scratching has been widely used as an indicator of anxiety in many primate
species. However, a handful of studies have shown no change in scratching under
anxiety-provoking circumstances. In addition, the existing literature has
investigated scratching only in relation to negative arousal (i.e., anxiety),
even though anxiety and excitement (positive arousal) share important
physiological and behavioral correlates, including increased heart rate, blood
pressure, and locomotion. In the current study, we scored all instances of
scratching in 11 outdoor-housed captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
during three contexts that were intended to be negatively arousing and three
contexts that were intended to be positively arousing during a baseline,
manipulation, and post-induction period. Summed across the three negative arousal
contexts, the results showed that subjects exhibited significantly lower
scratching rates during the manipulation than during either the baseline or
post-induction periods, and the pattern of means was the same for all three of
those contexts. Under the three contexts of positive arousal, subjects exhibited 
different patterns of scratching rates during the manipulation periods
(play = increases, foraging = decreases, food anticipation = no change). Data
from the current study, and a close examination of data from studies showing no
change in scratching under anxiety-provoking circumstances, suggest that the
anxiety-scratching relationship may be more complex than has been reported
previously. Our results raise a potential concern about the unchallenged use of
scratching as a behavioral indicator of anxiety in captive non-human primates,
with important implications for welfare and management of these species.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22498 
PMID: 26530306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

