

1141. Sci Rep. 2015 Nov 3;5:16046. doi: 10.1038/srep16046.

Cognitive impairment in a young marmoset reveals lateral ventriculomegaly and a
mild hippocampal atrophy: a case report.

Sadoun A(1)(2), Strelnikov K(1)(2), Bonté E(1)(2), Fonta C(1)(2), Girard
P(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse; UPS; Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition;
Toulouse, France.
(2)CerCo, CNRS UMR 5549, Toulouse, France.
(3)INSERM, Toulouse, France.

The number of studies that use the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in
various fields of neurosciences is increasing dramatically. In general, animals
enter the study when their health status is considered satisfactory on the basis 
of classical clinical investigations. In behavioral studies, variations of score 
between individuals are frequently observed, some of them being considered as
poor performers or outliers. Experimenters rarely consider the fact that it could
be related to some brain anomaly. This raises the important issue of the
reliability of such classical behavioral approaches without using complementary
imaging, especially in animals lacking striking external clinical signs. Here we 
report the case of a young marmoset which presented a set of cognitive
impairments in two different tasks compared to other age-matched animals. Brain
imaging revealed a patent right lateral ventricular enlargement with a mild
hippocampal atrophy. This abnormality could explain the cognitive impairments of 
this animal. Such a case points to the importance of complementing behavioral
studies by imaging explorations to avoid experimental bias.

DOI: 10.1038/srep16046 
PMCID: PMC4630607
PMID: 26527211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. Virology. 2016 Jan;487:141-9. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2015.10.004. Epub 2015 Nov 2.

Amino acid substitutions in the heptad repeat A and C regions of the F protein
responsible for neurovirulence of measles virus Osaka-1 strain from a patient
with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis.

Ayata M(1), Tanaka M(2), Kameoka K(3), Kuwamura M(2), Takeuchi K(4), Takeda M(5),
Kanou K(6), Ogura H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka City University,
Osaka 545-8585, Japan. Electronic address: maverick@med.osaka-cu.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University, Osaka
598-8531, Japan.
(3)Department of Virology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka City University,
Osaka 545-8585, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Environmental Microbiology, Division of Biomedical Science,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8575, Japan.
(5)Department of Virology 3, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo
208-0011, Japan.
(6)Infectious Disease Surveillance Center, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Tokyo 208-0011, Japan.

Measles virus (MV) is the causative agent of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis 
(SSPE). We previously reported that the F gene of the SSPE Osaka-2 strain is the 
major determinant of MV neurovirulence. Because the sites and extents of
mutations differ among SSPE strains, it is necessary to determine the mutations
responsible for the SSPE-specific phenotypes of individual viral strain. In this 
study, recombinant viruses containing the envelope-associated genes from the SSPE
Osaka-1 strain were generated in the IC323 wild-type MV background. Hamsters
inoculated with MV containing the H gene of the Osaka-1 strain displayed
hyperactivity and seizures, but usually recovered and survived. Hamsters
inoculated with MV containing the F gene of the Osaka-1 strain displayed severe
neurologic signs and died. Amino acid substitutions in the heptad repeat A and C 
regions of the F protein, including a methionine-to-valine substitution at amino 
acid 94, play major roles in neurovirulence.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2015.10.004 
PMID: 26524513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

