

1148. Drug Metab Dispos. 2016 Jan;44(1):8-15. doi: 10.1124/dmd.115.067561. Epub 2015
Oct 26.

Molecular Cloning, Tissue Distribution, and Functional Characterization of
Marmoset Cytochrome P450 1A1, 1A2, and 1B1.

Uehara S, Uno Y, Inoue T, Sasaki E, Yamazaki H.

Erratum in
    Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 Aug;45(8):956.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, has potential to be
an animal model for drug metabolism studies. In this study, we identified and
characterized cytochrome P450 (P450) 1A1 and 1B1 in addition to the known P450
1A2 in marmosets. Marmoset P450 1A1 and 1B1 cDNA contained open reading frames
encoding 512 and 543 amino acids, respectively, with high sequence identities
(90%-93%) to other primate P450 1A1s and 1B1s. A phylogenetic tree based on amino
acid sequences showed close evolutionary relationships among marmoset, macaque,
and human P450 1A and 1B enzymes. By mRNA quantification and immunoblot analyses 
in five marmoset tissues, P450 1A1 was mainly expressed in lungs and small
intestines, and P450 1A2 was expressed predominantly in livers. In contrast, P450
1B1 was expressed in all tissues tested. Marmoset P450 1A1, 1A2, and 1B1
heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed 7-ethoxyresorufin
O-deethylation, 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation, and phenacetin O-deethylation,
similar to those of humans and cynomolgus monkeys. Notably, marmoset P450 1A1 and
1A2 more efficiently catalyzed 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation than those of the
human homologs, but were comparable to those of the cynomolgus monkey homologs.
Additionally, marmoset P450 1B1 preferentially catalyzed estradiol
4-hydroxylation; however, rat P450 1B1 more favorably catalyzed estradiol
2-hydroxylation, indicating that the estradiol hydroxylation specificity of
marmoset P450 1B1 was similar to those of human and cynomolgus monkey P450 1B1.
These results indicated that marmoset P450 1A and 1B enzymes had functional
characteristics similar to those of humans and cynomolgus monkeys, suggesting
that P450 1A and 1B-dependent metabolism was similar among marmosets, cynomolgus 
monkeys, and humans.

Copyright © 2015 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.115.067561 
PMID: 26502772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Dev Psychobiol. 2016 Mar;58(2):141-58. doi: 10.1002/dev.21360. Epub 2015 Oct 26.

Neurobehavioral development of common marmoset monkeys.

Schultz-Darken N(1), Braun KM(1)(2), Emborg ME(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI.
(2)Medical Scientist Training Program, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI.
(3)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI.

Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys are a resource for biomedical
research and their use is predicted to increase due to the suitability of this
species for transgenic approaches. Identification of abnormal neurodevelopment
due to genetic modification relies upon the comparison with validated patterns of
normal behavior defined by unbiased methods. As scientists unfamiliar with
nonhuman primate development are interested to apply genomic editing techniques
in marmosets, it would be beneficial to the field that the investigators use
validated methods of postnatal evaluation that are age and species appropriate.
This review aims to analyze current available data on marmoset physical and
behavioral postnatal development, describe the methods used and discuss next
steps to better understand and evaluate marmoset normal and abnormal postnatal
neurodevelopment.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.21360 
PMCID: PMC4829073
PMID: 26502294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

