

115. BMC Ecol Evol. 2021 Jun 25;21(1):132. doi: 10.1186/s12862-021-01848-z.

Vertical clinging and leaping induced evolutionary rate shifts in postcranial
evolution of tamarins and marmosets (Primates, Callitrichidae).

Botton-Divet L(1), Nyakatura JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)AG Vergleichende Zoologie, Institut Für Biologie, Humboldt-Universität Zu
Berlin, Philippstr. 13, 10115, Berlin, Germany. leo.botton-divet@hu-berlin.de.
(2)AG Vergleichende Zoologie, Institut Für Biologie, Humboldt-Universität Zu
Berlin, Philippstr. 13, 10115, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Callitrichids comprise a diverse group of platyrrhine monkeys that
are present across South and Central America. Their secondarily evolved small
size and pointed claws allow them to cling to vertical trunks of a large
diameter. Within callitrichids, lineages with a high affinity for vertical
supports often engage in trunk-to-trunk leaping. This vertical clinging and
leaping (VCL) differs from horizontal leaping (HL) in terms of the functional
demands imposed on the musculoskeletal system, all the more so as HL often occurs
on small compliant terminal branches. We used quantified shape descriptors (3D
geometric morphometrics) and phylogenetically-informed analyses to investigate
the evolution of the shape and size of the humerus and femur, and how this
variation reflects locomotor behavior within Callitrichidae.
RESULTS: The humerus of VCL-associated species has a narrower trochlea compared
with HL species. It is hypothesized that this contributes to greater elbow
mobility. The wider trochlea in HL species appears to correspondingly provide
greater stability to the elbow joint. The femur in VCL species has a smaller head
and laterally-oriented distal condyles, possibly to reduce stresses during
clinging. Similarly, the expanded lesser trochanters visible in VCL species
provide a greater lever for the leg retractors and are thus also interpreted as
an adaptation to clinging. Evolutionary rate shifts to faster shape and size
changes of humerus and femur occurred in the Leontocebus clade when a shift to
slower rates occurred in the Saguinus clade.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the study of evolutionary rate shifts, the transition to
VCL behavior within callitrichids (specifically the Leontocebus clade) appears to
have been an opportunity for radiation, rather than a specialization that imposed
constraints on morphological diversity. The study of the evolution of
callitrichids suffers from a lack of comparative analyses of limb mechanics
during trunk-to-trunk leaping, and future work in this direction would be of
great interest.

DOI: 10.1186/s12862-021-01848-z 
PMCID: PMC8235625
PMID: 34171986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Neuron. 2021 Aug 4;109(15):2485-2498.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2021.06.003. Epub 
2021 Jun 24.

Controlling one's world: Identification of sub-regions of primate PFC underlying 
goal-directed behavior.

Duan LY(1), Horst NK(2), Cranmore SAW(2), Horiguchi N(2), Cardinal RN(3), Roberts
AC(4), Robbins TW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge
CB2 3EB, UK; Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Downing Street,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK. Electronic address:
lisaduan33@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge
CB2 3EB, UK; Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Downing Street,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Herchel Smith Building for 
Brain & Mind Sciences, Forvie Site, Robinson Way, Cambridge CB2 0SZ, UK;
Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, Downing Street, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK; Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation 
Trust, Liaison Psychiatry Service, Box 190, Cambridge Biomedical Campus,
Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(4)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK; Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute, Downing Street, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2
3EB, UK.

Comment in
    Neuron. 2021 Aug 4;109(15):2370-2373.

Impaired detection of causal relationships between actions and their outcomes can
lead to maladaptive behavior. However, causal roles of specific prefrontal cortex
(PFC) sub-regions and the caudate nucleus in mediating such relationships in
primates are unclear. We inactivated and overactivated five PFC sub-regions,
reversibly and pharmacologically: areas 24 (perigenual anterior cingulate
cortex), 32 (medial PFC), 11 (anterior orbitofrontal cortex, OFC), 14 (rostral
ventromedial PFC/medial OFC), and 14-25 (caudal ventromedial PFC) and the
anteromedial caudate to examine their role in expressing learned action-outcome
contingencies using a contingency degradation paradigm in marmoset monkeys. Area 
24 or caudate inactivation impaired the response to contingency change, while
area 11 inactivation enhanced it, and inactivation of areas 14, 32, or 14-25 had 
no effect. Overactivation of areas 11 and 24 impaired this response. These
findings demonstrate the distinct roles of PFC sub-regions in goal-directed
behavior and illuminate the candidate neurobehavioral substrates of psychiatric
disorders, including obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2021.06.003 
PMCID: PMC8346232
PMID: 34171290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

