

1153. Horm Behav. 2016 Feb;78:13-9. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.004. Epub 2015 Oct 21.

Hormonal stimulation and paternal experience influence responsiveness to infant
distress vocalizations by adult male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Sosa ME(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, 1220 Capitol Court, Madison, WI
53715, USA. Electronic address: ziegler@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, 1220 Capitol Court, Madison, WI
53715, USA.

Parental experience and hormones play a large role in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) father's care of their offspring. We tested the effect of
exogenous estradiol or testosterone on the responsiveness of common marmosets to 
respond to infant distress vocalizations and whether males who haven't become
fathers yet (paired males) would have increased responsiveness to infant distress
calls with either steroid or whether parental experience is the most important
component for the onset of paternal care. Sixteen male marmosets (8 fathers, 8
paired males) received a vehicle, low dose or high dose of estradiol and
additional 16 males were tested with testosterone at three doses for their
response either to a vocal control or a recording of an infant distress call for 
10min. Without steroid stimulation fathers were significantly more likely to
respond to the infant distress stimulus than paired males. Low dose estradiol
stimulation resulted in a significant increase in fathers' behavioral response
towards the infant distress stimulus but not in paired males. Fathers also showed
a significant increase in infant responsiveness from the vehicle dose to the
estradiol low dose treatment, but not to the estradiol high dose treatment.
Testosterone treatment did not show significant differences between infant
responsiveness at either dose and between fathers and paired males. We suggest
that neither steroid is involved in the onset of paternal care behaviors in the
marmoset but that estradiol may be involved in facilitating paternal motivation
in experienced fathers.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.004 
PMCID: PMC4718886
PMID: 26497409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. Theriogenology. 2016 Jan 15;85(2):302-14. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.09.020. Epub 2015 Sep 25.

ROCK inhibitor Y27632 promotes proliferation and diminishes apoptosis of marmoset
induced pluripotent stem cells by suppressing expression and activity of
caspase 3.

Wu Y(1), Shu J(2), He C(3), Li M(3), Wang Y(3), Ou W(2), He Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang,
China; Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Protection and Utilization of 
Special Biological Resources in Western China, College of Life Science, Ningxia
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang,
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Protection and Utilization of
Special Biological Resources in Western China, College of Life Science, Ningxia
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China.
(4)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang,
China; Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Protection and Utilization of 
Special Biological Resources in Western China, College of Life Science, Ningxia
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China. Electronic address: wuyh77@zstu.edu.cn.

Previous studies reported that Rho-associated kinase inhibitor Y27632 markedly
diminishes human embryonic stem cell and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)
dissociation-induced apoptosis and increases cloning efficiency in a feeder-free 
culture system. However, the mechanisms by which Y27632 protects pluripotent stem
cells from apoptosis remain unknown. In the present study, we tested the effects 
of Y27632 on single dissociated marmoset iPSCs in a feeder-free culture. The
results showed that Y27632 promoted the number of cells proliferating after
passage by single-cell dissociation in a dose-dependent manner. The
Rho-associated kinase inhibitor Y27632 markedly increased the cloning efficiency 
of marmoset iPSCs without affecting their karyotype and the expression of
pluripotency markers. Meanwhile, Y27632 markedly diminished apoptosis of the
marmoset iPSCs under even more severe conditions by suppressing the expression
and activity of caspase 3. Taken together, the present results suggest that this 
reagent is effective in improving the cultural system of primate iPSCs.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.09.020 
PMID: 26476594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

