

1154. Theriogenology. 2016 Jan 15;85(2):302-14. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.09.020. Epub 2015 Sep 25.

ROCK inhibitor Y27632 promotes proliferation and diminishes apoptosis of marmoset
induced pluripotent stem cells by suppressing expression and activity of
caspase 3.

Wu Y(1), Shu J(2), He C(3), Li M(3), Wang Y(3), Ou W(2), He Y(4).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang,
China; Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Protection and Utilization of 
Special Biological Resources in Western China, College of Life Science, Ningxia
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang,
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Protection and Utilization of
Special Biological Resources in Western China, College of Life Science, Ningxia
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China.
(4)College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang,
China; Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Protection and Utilization of 
Special Biological Resources in Western China, College of Life Science, Ningxia
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia, China. Electronic address: wuyh77@zstu.edu.cn.

Previous studies reported that Rho-associated kinase inhibitor Y27632 markedly
diminishes human embryonic stem cell and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)
dissociation-induced apoptosis and increases cloning efficiency in a feeder-free 
culture system. However, the mechanisms by which Y27632 protects pluripotent stem
cells from apoptosis remain unknown. In the present study, we tested the effects 
of Y27632 on single dissociated marmoset iPSCs in a feeder-free culture. The
results showed that Y27632 promoted the number of cells proliferating after
passage by single-cell dissociation in a dose-dependent manner. The
Rho-associated kinase inhibitor Y27632 markedly increased the cloning efficiency 
of marmoset iPSCs without affecting their karyotype and the expression of
pluripotency markers. Meanwhile, Y27632 markedly diminished apoptosis of the
marmoset iPSCs under even more severe conditions by suppressing the expression
and activity of caspase 3. Taken together, the present results suggest that this 
reagent is effective in improving the cultural system of primate iPSCs.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.09.020 
PMID: 26476594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. Behav Brain Res. 2016 Jan 15;297:277-84. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.10.025. Epub
2015 Oct 22.

Sustained performance by common marmosets in a delayed matching to position task 
with variable stimulus presentations.

Yamazaki Y(1), Saiki M(2), Inada M(2), Watanabe S(3), Iriki A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University, Japan; Advanced Research 
Centers, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan; Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive
Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Japan. Electronic address:
yumyam@a5.keio.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University, Japan; Department of
Psychology, Keio University, Japan.

Working memory is used to solve various cognitive problems by maintaining
information for some time and then by refreshing this information after certain
purposes are achieved. In the present study, we explored the ability of common
marmosets to perform a delayed matching to position (DMTP) task in a controlled
environment using operant conditioning. The DMTP task requires the subjects to
respond to the sample stimulus and to select one of two comparison stimuli with a
position matching that of the sample stimulus after a programmed delay period.
Positional arrangement of the sample and comparison stimuli, which were
quasi-randomly determined in each trial, was employed to prevent the subjects
from using any strategies based on their own body positions or orientations. The 
delay intervals between presentations of the sample and comparison stimuli were
fixed at 0.5 and 1s in the initial phases and were then varied between 5
intervals per delay set (e.g., 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 8s) intermixed in a session. The
longest delay interval within a set was gradually increased after the marmosets
achieved the criterion of each task. The subjects were successfully trained in
the procedure and showed accurate performance even following delays of more than 
100 s. The response times in the trials suggested that they used different
strategies depending on the delay interval length. Thus, the present study shows 
the robust ability of common marmosets in a task requiring positional memory,
which is related to their foraging strategy observed in the wild.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.10.025 
PMID: 26475508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

