

1155. Behav Brain Res. 2016 Jan 15;297:277-84. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.10.025. Epub
2015 Oct 22.

Sustained performance by common marmosets in a delayed matching to position task 
with variable stimulus presentations.

Yamazaki Y(1), Saiki M(2), Inada M(2), Watanabe S(3), Iriki A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University, Japan; Advanced Research 
Centers, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan; Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive
Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Japan. Electronic address:
yumyam@a5.keio.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University, Japan; Department of
Psychology, Keio University, Japan.

Working memory is used to solve various cognitive problems by maintaining
information for some time and then by refreshing this information after certain
purposes are achieved. In the present study, we explored the ability of common
marmosets to perform a delayed matching to position (DMTP) task in a controlled
environment using operant conditioning. The DMTP task requires the subjects to
respond to the sample stimulus and to select one of two comparison stimuli with a
position matching that of the sample stimulus after a programmed delay period.
Positional arrangement of the sample and comparison stimuli, which were
quasi-randomly determined in each trial, was employed to prevent the subjects
from using any strategies based on their own body positions or orientations. The 
delay intervals between presentations of the sample and comparison stimuli were
fixed at 0.5 and 1s in the initial phases and were then varied between 5
intervals per delay set (e.g., 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 8s) intermixed in a session. The
longest delay interval within a set was gradually increased after the marmosets
achieved the criterion of each task. The subjects were successfully trained in
the procedure and showed accurate performance even following delays of more than 
100 s. The response times in the trials suggested that they used different
strategies depending on the delay interval length. Thus, the present study shows 
the robust ability of common marmosets in a task requiring positional memory,
which is related to their foraging strategy observed in the wild.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.10.025 
PMID: 26475508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. Horm Behav. 2015 Sep;75:154-9. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.002. Epub 2015 Oct
22.

Oxytocin and vasopressin enhance responsiveness to infant stimuli in adult
marmosets.

Taylor JH(1), French JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States. Electronic address:
jhtaylor@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States; Department of Biology, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, United States.

The neuropeptides oxytocin (OT) and arginine-vasopressin (AVP) have been
implicated in modulating sex-specific responses to offspring in a variety of
uniparental and biparental rodent species. Despite the large body of research in 
rodents, the effects of these hormones in biparental primates are less
understood. Marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) belong to a clade of primates
with a high incidence of biparental care and also synthesize a structurally
distinct variant of OT (proline instead of leucine at the 8th amino acid
position; Pro(8)-OT). We examined the roles of the OT and AVP systems in the
control of responses to infant stimuli in marmoset monkeys. We administered
neuropeptide receptor agonists and antagonists to male and female marmosets, and 
then exposed them to visual and auditory infant-related and control stimuli.
Intranasal Pro(8)-OT decreased latencies to respond to infant stimuli in males,
and intranasal AVP decreased latencies to respond to infant stimuli in females.
Our study is the first to demonstrate that Pro(8)-OT and AVP alter responsiveness
to infant stimuli in a biparental New World monkey. Across species, the effects
of OT and AVP on parental behavior appear to vary by species-typical caregiving
responsibilities in males and females.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.002 
PMCID: PMC4648635
PMID: 26472596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

