

1156. Horm Behav. 2015 Sep;75:154-9. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.002. Epub 2015 Oct
22.

Oxytocin and vasopressin enhance responsiveness to infant stimuli in adult
marmosets.

Taylor JH(1), French JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States. Electronic address:
jhtaylor@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States; Department of Biology, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, United States.

The neuropeptides oxytocin (OT) and arginine-vasopressin (AVP) have been
implicated in modulating sex-specific responses to offspring in a variety of
uniparental and biparental rodent species. Despite the large body of research in 
rodents, the effects of these hormones in biparental primates are less
understood. Marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) belong to a clade of primates
with a high incidence of biparental care and also synthesize a structurally
distinct variant of OT (proline instead of leucine at the 8th amino acid
position; Pro(8)-OT). We examined the roles of the OT and AVP systems in the
control of responses to infant stimuli in marmoset monkeys. We administered
neuropeptide receptor agonists and antagonists to male and female marmosets, and 
then exposed them to visual and auditory infant-related and control stimuli.
Intranasal Pro(8)-OT decreased latencies to respond to infant stimuli in males,
and intranasal AVP decreased latencies to respond to infant stimuli in females.
Our study is the first to demonstrate that Pro(8)-OT and AVP alter responsiveness
to infant stimuli in a biparental New World monkey. Across species, the effects
of OT and AVP on parental behavior appear to vary by species-typical caregiving
responsibilities in males and females.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.002 
PMCID: PMC4648635
PMID: 26472596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. Primates. 2016 Jan;57(1):123-7.

Fatal attack on black-tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) by a Boa
constrictor: a simultaneous assault on two juvenile monkeys.

Teixeira DS, dos Santos E, Leal SG, de Jesus AK, Vargas WP, Dutra I, Barros M.

Here we report the first witnessed attack on a marmoset by a constrictor snake.
The incident occurred mid-morning in a gallery forest within an altered landscape
of the Cerrado region of central Brazil and refers to a fatal attack by a Boa
constrictor on two juvenile black-tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata)
simultaneously. The snake captured both individuals at a height of ~ 4 m while a 
group of eight marmosets traveled through the subcanopy. The actual strike was
not seen. After 2 min, the boa fell to the ground with both marmosets in its
coils and proceeded to kill one animal at a time through constriction. Two adult 
marmosets immediately descended to where the snake held its victims on the ground
and attacked it. The snake showed no apparent reaction, and after ~ 1-2 min, the 
adults rejoined the remaining group members that were mobbing and vocalizing from
5 to 6 m above. The group left the scene ~ 7 min after the onset of the attack
and was not seen again. The snake loosened its coils 10 min after its initial
strike, left the two carcasses on the ground and stayed behind a nearby tree.
Thus, we are not sure if the victims were in fact ingested. This report confirms 
that marmosets are vulnerable to boid snakes and capable of highly organized and 
cooperative antipredation behavior. It also suggests that snakes pose a greater
threat to callitrichids than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-015-0495-x 
PMID: 26467338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

