

1162. Vis Neurosci. 2015 Jan;32:E012. doi: 10.1017/S0952523815000097.

Corticocortical connection patterns reveal two distinct visual cortical areas
bordering dorsal V2 in marmoset monkey.

Jeffs J(1), Federer F(1), Angelucci A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science,Moran Eye Institute,University 
of Utah,Salt Lake City,Utah 84132.

The organization of the cortex located immediately anterior to the second visual 
area (V2), i.e., the third tier visual cortex, remains controversial, especially 
in New World primates. In particular, there is lack of consensus regarding the
exact location and extent of the lower visual quadrant representation of the
third visual area V3 (or ventrolateral posterior -VLP - of a different
nomenclature). Microelectrode and connectional mapping studies have revealed the 
existence of an upper visual quadrant representation abutting dorsal V2
anteriorly, and bordered medially and laterally by representations of the lower
visual quadrant. It remains unclear whether these lower field regions are both
part of a single area V3, which is split into two patches by an interposed region
of upper field representation, or whether they are the lower field
representations of two different areas, the dorsomedial area (DM) and area
V3/VLP, respectively. To address this question, we quantitatively analyzed the
patterns of corticocortical afferent connections labeled by tracer injections
targeted to these two lower field regions in the dorsal aspect of the third tier 
cortex. We found different inter-areal connectivity patterns arising from these
two regions, strongly suggesting that they belong to two different visual areas. 
In particular, our results indicate that the dorsal aspect of the third tier
cortex consists of two distinct areas: a full area DM, representing the lower
quadrant medially, and the upper quadrant laterally, and the lower quadrant
representation of V3/VLP, located laterally to upper field DM. DM is
predominantly connected with areas of the dorsal visual stream, and V3/VLP with
areas of the ventral stream. These results prompt further functional
investigations of the third tier cortex, as previous studies of this cortical
territory may have pooled response properties of two very different areas into a 
single area V3.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523815000097 
PMCID: PMC5301919
PMID: 26423121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2015 Nov;15(11):667-73. doi: 10.1089/vbz.2015.1806.
Epub 2015 Sep 29.

Serological Evidence of Infection by Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum (Synonym:
Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi) in Free-Ranging Wild Mammals in a Nonendemic
Region of the State of São Paulo, Brazil.

Paiz LM(1)(2), Fornazari F(1), Menozzi BD(1), Oliveira GC(1), Coiro CJ(1),
Teixeira CR(3), da Silva VM(4), Donalisio MR(5), Langoni H(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Veterinary Medicine and Public Health, School of Veterinary
Medicine and Animal Science, São Paulo State University-UNESP , Botucatu, São
Paulo, Brazil .
(2)5 Present address: Department of Public Health, School of Medical Sciences,
State University of Campinas-UNICAMP , Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil .
(3)2 Center for Wildlife Medicine and Research, School of Veterinary Medicine and
Animal Science, São Paulo State University-UNESP , Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil .
(4)3 Environmental Health Surveillance, Botucatu Municipal Secretariat of Health 
, Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil .
(5)4 Department of Public Health, School of Medical Sciences, State University of
Campinas-UNICAMP , Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil .

Concerns about the interface between wildlife, domestic animals, and humans in
the transmission of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) have been growing due to natural 
or anthropogenic environmental changes. In this context, investigations of the
infection in wild mammals are important to assess their exposure to the vector
and the parasite. A study of anti-Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum antibodies was
carried out using the direct agglutination test (DAT) on 528 free-ranging wild
mammals of 38 species from the region of Botucatu, state of São Paulo, Brazil, a 
municipality that has no records of the vector or of human or canine autochthony.
Antibodies were detected, with a cutoff of 1:320, in 9/528 (1.7%; 95% confidence 
interval [CI] 0.6-2.8%) mammals of the species Callithrix jacchus, Lepus
europaeus, Sphiggurus villosus, Nasua nasua, Eira barbara, and Galictis cuja,
with high titers (≥1280) for the last three. These three are little-studied
species, and previous records of the detection of anti-Leishmania spp. antibodies
in Brazil exist only for coatis (N. nasua), whereas worldwide, infection by L.
(L.) infantum has been confirmed only in hares (Le. europaeus). On the other
hand, opossums and canids, the species most commonly reported to be naturally
infected by L. (L.) infantum, were not seropositive. Fifty-eight (58/528; 10.9%) 
mammals were found to have antibody titers ranging from 20 to 160 and were not
included among the seropositive animals due to the adopted cutoff. However, the
possibility of infection in these animals should not be discarded, because there 
is no standard cutoff point for the different wild species. Our findings indicate
the need for investigations into the exact role of the seropositive species in
the epidemiology of VL and for effective epidemiological surveillance to prevent 
its expansion, because even in regions where there are no records of canine or
human autochthonous cases, there may be parasite circulation among wild mammals.

DOI: 10.1089/vbz.2015.1806 
PMID: 26418884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

