

1164. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Nov 5;766:25-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.09.028. Epub
2015 Sep 28.

The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, istradefylline enhances anti-parkinsonian 
activity induced by combined treatment with low doses of L-DOPA and dopamine
agonists in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Uchida S(1), Soshiroda K(2), Okita E(2), Kawai-Uchida M(2), Mori A(3), Jenner
P(4), Kanda T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Central Nervous System Research Laboratories, Central Nervous System Research 
& Development Unit, Research & Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.,
1188 Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.
(2)Research Core Function Laboratories, Research Functions Unit, Research &
Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.
(3)Strategic Product Portfolio Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Tokyo
100-8185, Japan.
(4)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College, London SE1 1UL, 
UK.
(5)Central Nervous System Research Laboratories, Central Nervous System Research 
& Development Unit, Research & Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.,
1188 Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan. Electronic 
address: tomoyuki.kanda@kyowa-kirin.co.jp.

The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, istradefylline improves motor function in 
patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) optimally treated with a
combination of L-DOPA and a dopamine agonist without increasing the risk of
troublesome dyskinesia. However, the effects of istradefylline on motor function 
when administered in combination with low dose of L-DOPA and dopamine agonists as
occurs in early PD are unknown. We investigated whether istradefylline enhances
the combined anti-parkinsonian effects of a suboptimal dose of L-DOPA and a
threshold dose of either the non-ergot dopamine agonist, ropinirole or the ergot 
dopamine agonist, pergolide in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated common marmoset. Threshold doses of ropinirole (0.025-0.075 mg/kg 
p.o.) and pergolide (0.01 mg/kg p.o.) produced a weak anti-parkinsonian effect.
Co-administration of a suboptimal dose of L-DOPA (2.5mg/kg p.o.) with threshold
doses of the dopamine agonists enhanced their anti-parkinsonian effect that led
to increased 'ON' time without dyskinesia appearing. Administering istradefylline
(10mg/kg p.o.) with the threshold doses of dopamine agonists and the suboptimal
dose of L-DOPA in a triple combination caused a further enhancement of the
anti-parkinsonian response but dyskinesia was still absent. In early PD, dopamine
agonists are often used as first-line monotherapy, but efficacy is usually lost
within a few years, at which time L-DOPA is added but with the risk of dyskinesia
appearance. These results show that istradefylline is effective in improving
motor function in combination with low dose dopaminergic drug treatment without
provoking dyskinesia.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.09.028 
PMID: 26415982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. PLoS One. 2015 Sep 23;10(9):e0138308. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138308.
eCollection 2015.

Corticospinal Tract Tracing in the Marmoset with a Clinical Whole-Body 3T Scanner
Using Manganese-Enhanced MRI.

Demain B(1), Davoust C(2), Plas B(3), Bolan F(2), Boulanouar K(2), Renaud L(4),
Darmana R(2), Vaysse L(2), Vieu C(5), Loubinoux I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps neurologiques, UMR 825, F-31024,
Toulouse, France; Université de Toulouse, UPS, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps
neurologiques, UMR 825, CHU Purpan, Place du Dr Baylac, F-31059, Toulouse, Cedex 
9, France; CNRS-LAAS, 7 avenue du colonel Roche, F-31077, Toulouse, France.
(2)Inserm, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps neurologiques, UMR 825, F-31024,
Toulouse, France; Université de Toulouse, UPS, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps
neurologiques, UMR 825, CHU Purpan, Place du Dr Baylac, F-31059, Toulouse, Cedex 
9, France.
(3)Inserm, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps neurologiques, UMR 825, F-31024,
Toulouse, France; Université de Toulouse, UPS, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps
neurologiques, UMR 825, CHU Purpan, Place du Dr Baylac, F-31059, Toulouse, Cedex 
9, France; Pôle Neurosciences, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Toulouse,
Toulouse, France.
(4)CNRS, Centre de Recherche Cerveau & Cognition, UMR 5549, F-31024, Toulouse,
France.
(5)CNRS-LAAS, 7 avenue du colonel Roche, F-31077, Toulouse, France.

Manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI) has been described as a powerful tool to depict
the architecture of neuronal circuits. In this study we investigated the
potential use of in vivo MRI detection of manganese for tracing neuronal
projections from the primary motor cortex (M1) in healthy marmosets (Callithrix
Jacchus). We determined the optimal dose of manganese chloride (MnCl2) among 800,
400, 40 and 8 nmol that led to manganese-induced hyperintensity furthest from the
injection site, as specific to the corticospinal tract as possible, and that
would not induce motor deficit. A commonly available 3T human clinical MRI
scanner and human knee coil were used to follow hyperintensity in the
corticospinal tract 24h after injection. A statistical parametric map of seven
marmosets injected with the chosen dose, 8 nmol, showed the corticospinal tract
and M1 connectivity with the basal ganglia, substantia nigra and thalamus. Safety
was determined for the lowest dose that did not induce dexterity and grip
strength deficit, and no behavioral effects could be seen in marmosets who
received multiple injections of manganese one month apart. In conclusion, our
study shows for the first time in marmosets, a reliable and reproducible way to
perform longitudinal ME-MRI experiments to observe the integrity of the marmoset 
corticospinal tract on a clinical 3T MRI scanner.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138308 
PMCID: PMC4580626
PMID: 26398500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

