

1167. J Vet Med Sci. 2016 Feb;78(2):317-9. doi: 10.1292/jvms.15-0099. Epub 2015 Sep 11.

More effective induction of anesthesia using
midazolam-butorphanol-ketamine-sevoflurane compared with ketamine-sevoflurane in 
the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Ishibashi H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Primate Resources, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

The common marmoset has been increasingly used for research in the biomedical
field; however, there is little information available regarding effective methods
of anesthesia in this species. This study retrospectively analyzed 2 regimens of 
anesthesia induction: intramuscular injection of ketamine followed by inhalation 
of 5% sevoflurane, and intramuscular injection of midazolam, butorphanol and
ketamine followed by inhalation of 5% sevoflurane. Anesthetic depth did not reach
the surgical anesthesia stage in 7 out of 99 animals receiving the former
regimen, whereas there were only 2 such animals out of 273 receiving the latter
regimen. The latter regimen, when followed by maintenance anesthesia with 3%
sevoflurane inhalation, was successfully used in various nociceptive procedures. 
These results indicate that the injection of a combination of midazolam,
butorphanol and ketamine followed by inhalation of a high concentration of
sevoflurane is effective for anesthesia induction in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.15-0099 
PMCID: PMC4785126
PMID: 26369292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. J Neurosci Methods. 2016 Jan 15;257:55-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2015.09.002.
Epub 2015 Sep 10.

Custom fit 3D-printed brain holders for comparison of histology with MRI in
marmosets.

Guy JR(1), Sati P(2), Leibovitch E(3), Jacobson S(4), Silva AC(5), Reich DS(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroimmunology and Neurovirology, National Institute of
Neurologic Disorders and Stroke, 10 Center Drive MSC 1400, Building 10 Room
5C103, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. Electronic address: joseph.guy@nih.gov.
(2)Division of Neuroimmunology and Neurovirology, National Institute of
Neurologic Disorders and Stroke, 10 Center Drive MSC 1400, Building 10 Room
5C103, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. Electronic address:
pascal.sati@nih.gov.
(3)Division of Neuroimmunology and Neurovirology, National Institute of
Neurologic Disorders and Stroke, 10 Center Drive MSC 1400, Building 10 Room
5C103, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. Electronic address:
leibovitchel@ninds.nih.gov.
(4)Division of Neuroimmunology and Neurovirology, National Institute of
Neurologic Disorders and Stroke, 10 Center Drive MSC 1400, Building 10 Room
5C103, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. Electronic address:
JacobsonS@ninds.nih.gov.
(5)Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging, National Institute of
Neurologic Disorders and Stroke, 49 Convent Drive MSC 1065 Building 49 Room 3A72,
Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. Electronic address: SilvaA@ninds.nih.gov.
(6)Division of Neuroimmunology and Neurovirology, National Institute of
Neurologic Disorders and Stroke, 10 Center Drive MSC 1400, Building 10 Room
5C103, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States. Electronic address:
reichds@ninds.nih.gov.

BACKGROUND: MRI has the advantage of sampling large areas of tissue and locating 
areas of interest in 3D space in both living and ex vivo systems, whereas
histology has the ability to examine thin slices of ex vivo tissue with high
detail and specificity. Although both are valuable tools, it is currently
difficult to make high-precision comparisons between MRI and histology due to
large differences inherent to the techniques. A method combining the advantages
would be an asset to understanding the pathological correlates of MRI.
NEW METHOD: 3D-printed brain holders were used to maintain marmoset brains in the
same orientation during acquisition of ex vivo MRI and pathologic cutting of the 
tissue.
RESULTS: The results of maintaining this same orientation show that
sub-millimeter, discrete neuropathological features in marmoset brain
consistently share size, shape, and location between histology and ex vivo MRI,
which facilitates comparison with serial imaging acquired in vivo.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: Existing methods use computational approaches
sensitive to data input in order to warp histologic images to match large-scale
features on MRI, but the new method requires no warping of images, due to a
preregistration accomplished in the technique, and is insensitive to data
formatting and artifacts in both MRI and histology.
CONCLUSIONS: The simple method of using 3D-printed brain holders to match brain
orientation during pathologic sectioning and MRI acquisition enables rapid and
precise comparison of small features seen on MRI to their underlying histology.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2015.09.002 
PMCID: PMC4662872
PMID: 26365332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

