

1169. J Comp Neurol. 2016 Apr 15;524(6):1193-207. doi: 10.1002/cne.23897. Epub 2015 Sep
28.

The temporal profile of retinal cell genesis in the marmoset monkey.

Hendrickson A(1)(2), Possin D(1), Kwan WC(3), Huang J(1), Bourne JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle Washington,
98109.
(2)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle
Washington, 98195.
(3)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.

The New World marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has a relatively short
gestational period compared with other primates but possesses a retina at a
similar stage of maturation by birth. Previous studies have highlighted that the 
complex fovea of the marmoset undergoes a more rapid postnatal development in
comparison with the Macaca monkey, reaching a mature stage earlier than these
species. In this current study, we examined the prenatal proliferation profile of
cells in the entire retina employing the thymidine analogs and also determined
their phenotype by double-label immunocytochemistry using type-specific markers. 
Akin to other primate species, we demonstrate a centroperipheral gradient in the 
emergence of both neurons and Müller glia with cones, ganglion cells, and
horizontal cells generated first in the fovea at fetal day (Fd)70-74 and with the
last generated at the retinal edge at Fd115. Rods, bipolar cells, amacrine cells,
displaced amacrine cells, and Müller glia were generated between Fd76 and Fd135
along the same gradient. Similar to foveal development, marmoset neuronal
generation was rapid, only taking 51% of gestation whereas in Macaca this takes
81%.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23897 
PMID: 26355791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Nature. 2015 Sep 10;525(7568):165-6. doi: 10.1038/525165a.

Autopsies reveal signs of Alzheimer's in growth-hormone patients.

Abbott A.

DOI: 10.1038/525165a 
PMID: 26354460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

