

1173. Braz J Infect Dis. 2015 Sep-Oct;19(5):479-85. doi: 10.1016/j.bjid.2015.06.012.
Epub 2015 Aug 21.

Fluorescent antibody test, quantitative polymerase chain reaction pattern and
clinical aspects of rabies virus strains isolated from main reservoirs in Brazil.

Appolinário C(1), Allendorf SD(1), Vicente AF(1), Ribeiro BD(1), Fonseca CR(1),
Antunes JM(1), Peres MG(1), Kotait I(2), Carrieri ML(3), Megid J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Higiene Veterinária e Saúde Pública, Faculdade de Medicina
Veterinária e Zootecnia, Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Botucatu, SP,
Brazil.
(2)Instituto Biológico de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Secção de Raiva, Instituto Butantan, Secretaria da Saúde, São Paulo, SP,
Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Higiene Veterinária e Saúde Pública, Faculdade de Medicina
Veterinária e Zootecnia, Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Botucatu, SP,
Brazil. Electronic address: jane@fmvz.unesp.br.

Rabies virus (RABV) isolated from different mammals seems to have unique
characteristics that influence the outcome of infection. RABV circulates in
nature and is maintained by reservoirs that are responsible for the persistence
of the disease for almost 4000 years. Considering the different pattern of
pathogenicity of RABV strains in naturally and experimentally infected animals,
the aim of this study was to analyze the characteristics of RABV variants
isolated from the main Brazilian reservoirs, being related to a dog (variant 2), 
Desmodus rotundus (variant 3), crab eating fox, marmoset, and Myotis spp. Viral
replication in brain tissue of experimentally infected mouse was evaluated by two
laboratory techniques and the results were compared to clinical evolution from
five RABV variants. The presence of the RABV was investigated in brain samples by
fluorescent antibody test (FAT) and real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR)
for quantification of rabies virus nucleoprotein gene (N gene). Virus replication
is not correlated with clinical signs and evolution. The pattern of FAT is
associated with RABV replication levels. Virus isolates from crab eating fox and 
marmoset had a longer evolution period and higher survival rate suggesting that
the evolution period may contribute to the outcome. RABV virus variants had
independent characteristics that determine the clinical evolution and survival of
the infected mice.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjid.2015.06.012 
PMID: 26303004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. J Med Microbiol. 2015 Sep;64(9):1063-1073. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.000113. Epub 2015
Jun 30.

Isolation and characterization of a novel Helicobacter species, Helicobacter
jaachi sp. nov., from common marmosets (Callithrix jaachus).

Shen Z(1), Feng Y(1), Sheh A(1), Everitt J(2), Bertram F(2), Paster BJ(3), Fox
JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(2)GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.
(3)The Forsyth Institute, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Purpose-bred common marmosets from domestic sources housed in a US research
facility, and used in multiple drug discovery programmes, were noted to have a
high incidence of spontaneous inflammatory bowel disease and sporadic
cholecystitis and cholangiohepatitis. Inflammatory infiltrates increased in
incidence and severity with age. Because Helicobacter spp. have been linked to
gastrointestinal diseases, samples from the gastrointestinal tracts of 39
marmosets were screened for Helicobacter spp. by culture and PCR. Helicobacter
spp. were frequently detected in marmosets; 28.2% of the marmosets were positive 
for a proposed novel species, Helicobacter jaachi sp. nov., by culture, and 48.7%
were positive by Helicobacter genus-specific PCR. Seventeen strains of
Helicobacter sp. from 11 marmosets were cultured from various gastrointestinal
sites. Older animals (age 6-11 years) had a higher helicobacter prevalence rate
(57.1%) compared with younger animals (age 3-5 years), which had a 27.2%
prevalence rate. Cells of H. jaachi sp. nov. were catalase, urease and oxidase
positive and had fusiform morphology, with periplasmic fibres and multiple
bipolar, sheathed flagella. All isolates had similar 16S and 23S rRNA sequences, 
which clustered as representatives of a novel Helicobacter species closely
related to 'Helicobacter sanguini' (97%), a species isolated from cotton-top
tamarins and 'Helicobacter callitrichis' (96%) isolated previously from the
faeces of common marmosets. The whole genome sequence of one of the liver
isolates, H. jaachi sp. nov. MIT 09-6949(T), had a 1.9 Mb genome length with a 41
mol% DNA G+C content. The type strain of Helicobacter jaachi sp. nov., MIT
09-6949(T), has been deposited in the BCCM/LMG Bacteria Collection as LMG
28613(T). These findings add to the increasing number of animal species with
gastrointestinal disease in which novel enterohepatic Helicobacter spp. have been
isolated.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.000113 
PMCID: PMC4681044
PMID: 26297446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

