

1174. J Med Microbiol. 2015 Sep;64(9):1063-1073. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.000113. Epub 2015
Jun 30.

Isolation and characterization of a novel Helicobacter species, Helicobacter
jaachi sp. nov., from common marmosets (Callithrix jaachus).

Shen Z(1), Feng Y(1), Sheh A(1), Everitt J(2), Bertram F(2), Paster BJ(3), Fox
JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(2)GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.
(3)The Forsyth Institute, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Purpose-bred common marmosets from domestic sources housed in a US research
facility, and used in multiple drug discovery programmes, were noted to have a
high incidence of spontaneous inflammatory bowel disease and sporadic
cholecystitis and cholangiohepatitis. Inflammatory infiltrates increased in
incidence and severity with age. Because Helicobacter spp. have been linked to
gastrointestinal diseases, samples from the gastrointestinal tracts of 39
marmosets were screened for Helicobacter spp. by culture and PCR. Helicobacter
spp. were frequently detected in marmosets; 28.2% of the marmosets were positive 
for a proposed novel species, Helicobacter jaachi sp. nov., by culture, and 48.7%
were positive by Helicobacter genus-specific PCR. Seventeen strains of
Helicobacter sp. from 11 marmosets were cultured from various gastrointestinal
sites. Older animals (age 6-11 years) had a higher helicobacter prevalence rate
(57.1%) compared with younger animals (age 3-5 years), which had a 27.2%
prevalence rate. Cells of H. jaachi sp. nov. were catalase, urease and oxidase
positive and had fusiform morphology, with periplasmic fibres and multiple
bipolar, sheathed flagella. All isolates had similar 16S and 23S rRNA sequences, 
which clustered as representatives of a novel Helicobacter species closely
related to 'Helicobacter sanguini' (97%), a species isolated from cotton-top
tamarins and 'Helicobacter callitrichis' (96%) isolated previously from the
faeces of common marmosets. The whole genome sequence of one of the liver
isolates, H. jaachi sp. nov. MIT 09-6949(T), had a 1.9 Mb genome length with a 41
mol% DNA G+C content. The type strain of Helicobacter jaachi sp. nov., MIT
09-6949(T), has been deposited in the BCCM/LMG Bacteria Collection as LMG
28613(T). These findings add to the increasing number of animal species with
gastrointestinal disease in which novel enterohepatic Helicobacter spp. have been
isolated.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.000113 
PMCID: PMC4681044
PMID: 26297446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2015 Aug 22;6:150. doi: 10.1186/s13287-015-0146-6.

Molecular and cellular characteristics of human and non-human primate multipotent
stromal cells from the amnion and bone marrow during long term culture.

Pogozhykh O(1), Pogozhykh D(2), Neehus AL(3), Hoffmann A(4), Blasczyk R(5),
Müller T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany. pogozhykh.olena@mh-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany. pogozhykh.denys@mh-hannover.de.
(3)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany. neehus.anna-lena@mh-hannover.de.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hannover Medical School,
Anna-von-Borries-Straße 1-7, 30625, Hannover, Germany.
hoffmann.andrea@mh-hannover.de.
(5)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany.
transfusionsmedizin@mh-hannover.de.
(6)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany. mueller.thomas@mh-hannover.de.

INTRODUCTION: Multipotent stromal cells (MSCs) are among the key candidates in
regenerative medicine. However variety of MSC sources and general heterogeneity
lead to controversial data in functional characterization. Furthermore, despite
intensive usage as preclinical animal model, little is known about MSCs of the
common marmoset monkey.
METHODS: MSCs derived from placental amnion and bone marrow samples from human
and common marmoset were characterized in parallel over 12 passages to monitor
similarities and significant differences (p ≤ 0.05, Student's t-test) in MSC
markers and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I expression by
immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, real-time PCR, metabolic activity test,
with special focus on pluripotency associated genes.
RESULTS: Human and non-human primate MSCs were characterized for expression of
MSC markers and capability of differentiation into mesenchymal lineages. MSCs
could be cultured more than 100 days (26 passages), but metabolic activity was
significantly enhanced in amnion vs. bone marrow MSCs. Interestingly, MHC class I
expression is significantly reduced in amnion MSCs until passage 6 in human and
marmoset, but not in bone marrow cells. For MSC markers, CD73 and CD105 levels
remain unchanged in amnion MSCs and slightly decline in bone marrow at late
passages; CD166 is significantly higher expressed in human MSCs, CD106
significantly lower vs. marmoset. All cultured MSCs showed pluripotency marker
expression like Oct-4A at passage 3 significantly decreasing over time (passages 
6-12) while Nanog expression was highest in human bone marrow MSCs. Furthermore, 
human MSCs demonstrated the highest Sox2 levels vs. marmoset, whereas the
marmoset exhibited significantly higher Lin28A values. Bisulfite sequencing of
the Oct-4 promoter region displayed fewer methylations of CpG islands in the
marmoset vs. human.
CONCLUSIONS: Little is known about MSC characteristics from the preclinical
animal model common marmoset vs. human during long term culture. Studied human
and common marmoset samples share many similar features such as most MSC markers 
and reduced MHC class I expression in amnion cells vs. bone marrow. Furthermore, 
pluripotency markers indicate in both species a subpopulation of MSCs with true
'stemness', which could explain their high proliferation capacity, though
possessing differences between human and marmoset in Lin28A and Sox2 expression.

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-015-0146-6 
PMCID: PMC4546288
PMID: 26297012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

