

1178. Biopreserv Biobank. 2015 Aug;13(4):301-2. doi: 10.1089/bio.2015.29015.vs.

The EUPRIM-Net Primates Biobank.

Stephan V(1), Pauling B(1).

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Gottingen, Germany .

DOI: 10.1089/bio.2015.29015.vs 
PMID: 26280505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. Science. 2015 Aug 14;349(6249):734-8. doi: 10.1126/science.aab1058.

LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT. The developmental dynamics of marmoset monkey vocal
production.

Takahashi DY(1), Fenley AR(1), Teramoto Y(2), Narayanan DZ(1), Borjon JI(1),
Holmes P(3), Ghazanfar AA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA. Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA.
(3)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA. Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and Program in Applied
and Computational Mathematics, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
(4)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA. Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
NJ 08544, USA.

Comment in
    Science. 2015 Aug 14;349(6249):688-9.

Human vocal development occurs through two parallel interactive processes that
transform infant cries into more mature vocalizations, such as cooing sounds and 
babbling. First, natural categories of sounds change as the vocal apparatus
matures. Second, parental vocal feedback sensitizes infants to certain features
of those sounds, and the sounds are modified accordingly. Paradoxically, our
closest living ancestors, nonhuman primates, are thought to undergo few or no
production-related acoustic changes during development, and any such changes are 
thought to be impervious to social feedback. Using early and dense sampling,
quantitative tracking of acoustic changes, and biomechanical modeling, we showed 
that vocalizations in infant marmoset monkeys undergo dramatic changes that
cannot be solely attributed to simple consequences of growth. Using parental
interaction experiments, we found that contingent parental feedback influences
the rate of vocal development. These findings overturn decades-old ideas about
primate vocalizations and show that marmoset monkeys are a compelling model
system for early vocal development in humans.

Copyright Â© 2015, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

DOI: 10.1126/science.aab1058 
PMID: 26273055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

