

1181. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2016 Mar;11(1):73-83. doi: 10.1007/s11481-015-9629-6.
Epub 2015 Aug 11.

Blockade of CD127 Exerts a Dichotomous Clinical Effect in Marmoset Experimental
Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis.

Dunham J(1)(2)(3)(4), Lee LF(5), van Driel N(1), Laman JD(4), Ni I(6), Zhai W(6),
Tu GH(5), Lin JC(5), Bauer J(7), 't Hart BA(1)(2)(3)(4), Kap YS(8)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, P.O. Box
3306, 2280, GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(2)MS Centre Erasmus, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, Rotterdam,
The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, University Groningen, University Medical Center,
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Experimental Medicine, Rinat, Pfizer Inc, South San Francisco,
CA, USA.
(6)Department of Protein Engineering, Rinat, Pfizer Inc, South San Francisco, CA,
USA.
(7)Center for Brain Research, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(8)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, P.O. Box
3306, 2280, GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. kap@bprc.nl.
(9)MS Centre Erasmus, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. kap@bprc.nl.

Non-human primate models of human disease have an important role in the
translation of a new scientific finding in lower species into an effective
treatment. In this study, we tested a new therapeutic antibody against the IL-7
receptor Î± chain (CD127), which in a C57BL/6 mouse model of experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) ameliorates disease, demonstrating an
important pathogenic function of IL-7. We observed that while the treatment was
effective in 100 % of the mice, it was only partially effective in the EAE model 
in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small-bodied Neotropical primate. EAE
was induced in seven female marmoset twins and treatment with the anti-CD127 mAb 
or PBS as control was started 21 days after immunization followed by weekly
intravenous administration. The anti-CD127 mAb caused functional blockade of IL-7
signaling through its receptor as shown by reduced phosphorylation of STAT5 in
lymphocytes upon stimulation with IL-7. Group-wise analysis showed no significant
effects on the clinical course and neuropathology. However, paired twin analysis 
revealed a delayed disease onset in three twins, which were high responders to
the immunization. In addition, we observed markedly opposite effects of the
antibody on pathological changes in the spinal cord in high versus low responder 
twins. In conclusion, promising clinical effect of CD127 blockade observed in a
standard inbred/SPF mouse EAE model could only be partially replicated in an
outbred/non-SPF non-human primate EAE model. Only in high responders to the
immunization we found a positive response to the treatment. The mechanism
underpinning this dichotomous response will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-015-9629-6 
PMID: 26260924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Vet Res Commun. 2015 Sep;39(3):171-7. doi: 10.1007/s11259-015-9641-6. Epub 2015
Aug 6.

Tissue-specific expression pattern and histological distribution of NLRP3 in
Chinese yellow chicken.

Ye J(1), Yu M, Zhang K, Liu J, Wang Q, Tao P, Jia K, Liao M, Ning Z.

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, South China Agricultural University,
Guangzhou, 510642, People's Republic of China.

Pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) play important role in
inflammation which means response of the host to stimuli. NOD-like receptor
protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome is involved in the onset and development of
inflammation. NLRP3, as one of the most important inflammasome sensors, has
significant effect on the regulation of inflammasome activation to avoid the
consequences of over activation. Up to date, there are no detailed tissue
specific expression and distribution data about NLPR3 in chicken. Here, NLRP3 of 
Chinese yellow chicken was cloned and sequence analyzed, the polyclonal antibody 
was produced by purified protein of recombinant prokaryotic expression. Relative 
expression levels and tissue distribution of NLRP3 were investigated by real-time
quantitative PCR and immunohistochemical analysis, respectively. The results
showed that NLRP3 gene is highly variable between mammalian and avian. The
nucleotide homology of NLRP3 between yellow chicken and Bos taurus, Hainan black 
goat, Sus scrofa, Callithrix jacchus, Homo sapiens, Macaca mulatta, Mus musculus 
and Rattus norvegicus were 54.2%, 53.9%, 53.7%, 55.4%, 54.3%, 54.5%, 53.5% and
53.7%. NLRP3 expressed in all detected tissues and higher in the trachea are lung
than in other tissues. Cytoplasmic expression of NLRP3 was detected in ciliated
epithelial cells, basal cells and cells in lamina propria of trachea, alveolar
epithelial cells, cardiac muscle cells, cerebral cortex neurons, epithelial
reticular cells of the spleen, and lymphocytes of medulla in stannius follicle,
liver cells and the renal tubule epithelial cells. The results will help to
elucidate the role of NLRP3 of different tissues in inflammatory diseases of
chicken and provide a basis for further investigations in the function and
evolution of NLRP3 in different species, which would be helpful for further
research on avian inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s11259-015-9641-6 
PMID: 26246158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

