

1191. J Infect Dis. 2015 Dec 15;212(12):1904-13. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiv392. Epub 2015 
Jul 21.

Treatment With Lopinavir/Ritonavir or Interferon-β1b Improves Outcome of MERS-CoV
Infection in a Nonhuman Primate Model of Common Marmoset.

Chan JF(1), Yao Y(2), Yeung ML(3), Deng W(2), Bao L(2), Jia L(3), Li F(2), Xiao
C(2), Gao H(2), Yu P(2), Cai JP(3), Chu H(3), Zhou J(3), Chen H(1), Qin C(2),
Yuen KY(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Diseases Department of
Microbiology Research Centre of Infection and Immunology Carol Yu Centre for
Infection, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(2)Institute of Laboratory Animal Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Microbiology.

Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) causes severe disease in 
human with an overall case-fatality rate of >35%. Effective antivirals are
crucial for improving the clinical outcome of MERS. Although a number of
repurposed drugs, convalescent-phase plasma, antiviral peptides, and neutralizing
antibodies exhibit anti-MERS-CoV activity in vitro, most are not readily
available or have not been evaluated in nonhuman primates. We assessed 3
repurposed drugs with potent in vitro anti-MERS-CoV activity (mycophenolate
mofetil [MMF], lopinavir/ritonavir, and interferon-β1b) in common marmosets with 
severe disease resembling MERS in humans. The lopinavir/ritonavir-treated and
interferon-β1b-treated animals had better outcome than the untreated animals,
with improved clinical (mean clinical scores ↓50.9%-95.0% and ↓weight loss than
the untreated animals), radiological (minimal pulmonary infiltrates), and
pathological (mild bronchointerstitial pneumonia) findings, and lower mean viral 
loads in necropsied lung (↓0.59-1.06 log10 copies/glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate
dehydrogenase [GAPDH]; P < .050) and extrapulmonary (↓0.11-1.29 log10
copies/GAPDH; P < .050 in kidney) tissues. In contrast, all MMF-treated animals
developed severe and/or fatal disease with higher mean viral loads (↑0.15-0.54
log10 copies/GAPDH) than the untreated animals. The mortality rate at 36 hours
postinoculation was 67% (untreated and MMF-treated) versus 0-33%
(lopinavir/ritonavir-treated and interferon-β1b-treated). Lopinavir/ritonavir and
interferon-β1b alone or in combination should be evaluated in clinical trials.
MMF alone may worsen MERS and should not be used.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiv392 
PMCID: PMC7107395
PMID: 26198719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1192. Antiviral Res. 2015 Oct;122:28-38. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2015.07.005. Epub
2015 Jul 17.

Animal models of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection.

van Doremalen N(1), Munster VJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA. Electronic address: Vincent.munster@nih.gov.

The emergence of the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in
2012 marked the second time that a new, highly pathogenic coronavirus has emerged
in the human population in the 21st century. In this review, we discuss the
current state of knowledge of animal models of MERS-CoV infection. Commonly used 
laboratory animal species such as Syrian hamsters, mice and ferrets are not
susceptible to MERS-CoV, due to differences in the MERS-CoV receptor dipeptidyl
peptidase 4 (DPP4). The initially developed animal models comprise two nonhuman
primate species, the rhesus macaque and the common marmoset. Rhesus macaques
develop a mild to moderate respiratory disease upon inoculation, reminiscent of
milder MERS cases, whereas marmosets develop a moderate to severe respiratory
disease, recapitulating the severe disease observed in some patients. Dromedary
camels, considered to be the reservoir for MERS-CoV, develop a mild upper
respiratory tract infection with abundant viral shedding. Although normal mice
are not susceptible to MERS-CoV, expression of the human DPP4 (hDPP4) overcomes
the lack of susceptibility. Transgenic hDPP4 mice develop severe and lethal
respiratory disease upon inoculation with MERS-CoV. These hDPP4 transgenic mice
are potentially the ideal first line animal model for efficacy testing of
therapeutic and prophylactic countermeasures. Further characterization of
identified countermeasures would ideally be performed in the common marmoset
model, due to the more severe disease outcome. This article forms part of a
symposium in Antiviral Research on "From SARS to MERS: research on highly
pathogenic human coronaviruses."

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2015.07.005 
PMCID: PMC4561025
PMID: 26192750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

