

1192. Antiviral Res. 2015 Oct;122:28-38. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2015.07.005. Epub
2015 Jul 17.

Animal models of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection.

van Doremalen N(1), Munster VJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA. Electronic address: Vincent.munster@nih.gov.

The emergence of the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) in
2012 marked the second time that a new, highly pathogenic coronavirus has emerged
in the human population in the 21st century. In this review, we discuss the
current state of knowledge of animal models of MERS-CoV infection. Commonly used 
laboratory animal species such as Syrian hamsters, mice and ferrets are not
susceptible to MERS-CoV, due to differences in the MERS-CoV receptor dipeptidyl
peptidase 4 (DPP4). The initially developed animal models comprise two nonhuman
primate species, the rhesus macaque and the common marmoset. Rhesus macaques
develop a mild to moderate respiratory disease upon inoculation, reminiscent of
milder MERS cases, whereas marmosets develop a moderate to severe respiratory
disease, recapitulating the severe disease observed in some patients. Dromedary
camels, considered to be the reservoir for MERS-CoV, develop a mild upper
respiratory tract infection with abundant viral shedding. Although normal mice
are not susceptible to MERS-CoV, expression of the human DPP4 (hDPP4) overcomes
the lack of susceptibility. Transgenic hDPP4 mice develop severe and lethal
respiratory disease upon inoculation with MERS-CoV. These hDPP4 transgenic mice
are potentially the ideal first line animal model for efficacy testing of
therapeutic and prophylactic countermeasures. Further characterization of
identified countermeasures would ideally be performed in the common marmoset
model, due to the more severe disease outcome. This article forms part of a
symposium in Antiviral Research on "From SARS to MERS: research on highly
pathogenic human coronaviruses."

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2015.07.005 
PMCID: PMC4561025
PMID: 26192750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1193. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 Oct;53(10):3148-54. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01449-15. Epub 2015
Jul 15.

Buffer AVL Alone Does Not Inactivate Ebola Virus in a Representative Clinical
Sample Type.

Smither SJ(1), Weller SA(2), Phelps A(2), Eastaugh L(2), Ngugi S(2), O'Brien
LM(2), Steward J(2), Lonsdale SG(2), Lever MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton Down,
Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom sjsmither@dstl.gov.uk.
(2)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton Down,
Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.

Rapid inactivation of Ebola virus (EBOV) is crucial for high-throughput testing
of clinical samples in low-resource, outbreak scenarios. The EBOV inactivation
efficacy of Buffer AVL (Qiagen) was tested against marmoset serum (EBOV
concentration of 1 × 10(8) 50% tissue culture infective dose per milliliter
[TCID50 · ml(-1)]) and murine blood (EBOV concentration of 1 × 10(7) TCID50 ·
ml(-1)) at 4:1 vol/vol buffer/sample ratios. Posttreatment cell culture and
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) analysis indicated that treatment with 
Buffer AVL did not inactivate EBOV in 67% of samples, indicating that Buffer AVL,
which is designed for RNA extraction and not virus inactivation, cannot be
guaranteed to inactivate EBOV in diagnostic samples. Murine blood samples treated
with ethanol (4:1 [vol/vol] ethanol/sample) or heat (60°C for 15 min) also showed
no viral inactivation in 67% or 100% of samples, respectively. However, combined 
Buffer AVL and ethanol or Buffer AVL and heat treatments showed total viral
inactivation in 100% of samples tested. The Buffer AVL plus ethanol and Buffer
AVL plus heat treatments were also shown not to affect the extraction of PCR
quality RNA from EBOV-spiked murine blood samples.

© Crown copyright 2015.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01449-15 
PMCID: PMC4572529
PMID: 26179307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

