

1193. J Clin Microbiol. 2015 Oct;53(10):3148-54. doi: 10.1128/JCM.01449-15. Epub 2015
Jul 15.

Buffer AVL Alone Does Not Inactivate Ebola Virus in a Representative Clinical
Sample Type.

Smither SJ(1), Weller SA(2), Phelps A(2), Eastaugh L(2), Ngugi S(2), O'Brien
LM(2), Steward J(2), Lonsdale SG(2), Lever MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton Down,
Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom sjsmither@dstl.gov.uk.
(2)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton Down,
Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.

Rapid inactivation of Ebola virus (EBOV) is crucial for high-throughput testing
of clinical samples in low-resource, outbreak scenarios. The EBOV inactivation
efficacy of Buffer AVL (Qiagen) was tested against marmoset serum (EBOV
concentration of 1 × 10(8) 50% tissue culture infective dose per milliliter
[TCID50 · ml(-1)]) and murine blood (EBOV concentration of 1 × 10(7) TCID50 ·
ml(-1)) at 4:1 vol/vol buffer/sample ratios. Posttreatment cell culture and
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) analysis indicated that treatment with 
Buffer AVL did not inactivate EBOV in 67% of samples, indicating that Buffer AVL,
which is designed for RNA extraction and not virus inactivation, cannot be
guaranteed to inactivate EBOV in diagnostic samples. Murine blood samples treated
with ethanol (4:1 [vol/vol] ethanol/sample) or heat (60°C for 15 min) also showed
no viral inactivation in 67% or 100% of samples, respectively. However, combined 
Buffer AVL and ethanol or Buffer AVL and heat treatments showed total viral
inactivation in 100% of samples tested. The Buffer AVL plus ethanol and Buffer
AVL plus heat treatments were also shown not to affect the extraction of PCR
quality RNA from EBOV-spiked murine blood samples.

© Crown copyright 2015.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.01449-15 
PMCID: PMC4572529
PMID: 26179307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1194. Front Neuroanat. 2015 Jun 29;9:85. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2015.00085. eCollection
2015.

Septo-temporal distribution and lineage progression of hippocampal neurogenesis
in a primate (Callithrix jacchus) in comparison to mice.

Amrein I(1), Nosswitz M(2), Slomianka L(2), van Dijk RM(3), Engler S(2), Klaus
F(2), Raineteau O(4), Azim K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Functional Neuroanatomy, Institute of Anatomy, University of Zürich Zürich,
Switzerland ; Neuroscience Center Zurich, University of Zürich and ETH Zürich
Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Functional Neuroanatomy, Institute of Anatomy, University of Zürich Zürich,
Switzerland.
(3)Functional Neuroanatomy, Institute of Anatomy, University of Zürich Zürich,
Switzerland ; Institute of Human Movement Sciences and Sport, Department of
Health Sciences and Technology, ETH Zürich Zürich, Switzerland.
(4)Inserm U846, Stem Cell and Brain Research Institute, Bron France ; Université 
de Lyon, Bron France.
(5)Neuroscience Center Zurich, University of Zürich and ETH Zürich Zürich,
Switzerland.

Adult born neurons in the hippocampus show species-specific differences in their 
numbers, the pace of their maturation and their spatial distribution. Here, we
present quantitative data on adult hippocampal neurogenesis in a New World
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) that demonstrate parts of the
lineage progression and age-related changes. Proliferation was largely (∼70%)
restricted to stem cells or early progenitor cells, whilst the remainder of the
cycling pool could be assigned almost exclusively to Tbr2+ intermediate precursor
cells in both neonate and adult animals (20-122 months). Proliferating DCX+
neuroblasts were virtually absent in adults, although rare MCM2+/DCX+
co-expression revealed a small, persisting proliferative potential. Co-expression
of DCX with calretinin was very limited in marmosets, suggesting that these
markers label distinct maturational stages. In adult marmosets, numbers of MCM2+,
Ki67+, and significantly Tbr2+, DCX+, and CR+ cells declined with age. The
distributions of granule cells, proliferating cells and DCX+ young neurons along 
the hippocampal longitudinal axis were equal in marmosets and mice. In both
species, a gradient along the hippocampal septo-temporal axis was apparent for
DCX+ and resident granule cells. Both cell numbers are higher septally than
temporally, whilst proliferating cells were evenly distributed along this axis.
Relative to resident granule cells, however, the ratio of proliferating cells and
DCX+ neurons remained constant in the septal, middle, and temporal hippocampus.
In marmosets, the extended phase of the maturation of young neurons that
characterizes primate hippocampal neurogenesis was due to the extension in a
large CR+/DCX- cell population. This clear dissociation between DCX+ and CR+
young neurons has not been reported for other species and may therefore represent
a key primate-specific feature of adult hippocampal neurogenesis.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2015.00085 
PMCID: PMC4484228
PMID: 26175670 

