

1196. Dev Growth Differ. 2015 Aug;57(6):484-95. doi: 10.1111/dgd.12227. Epub 2015 Jul
14.

Identification of tool use acquisition-associated genes in the primate neocortex.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S(1), Oka M(1), Tanaka M(1), Taoka M(1), Iriki A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Hirosawa 2-1, Wako, 351-0198, Japan.

Japanese macaques are able to learn how to use rakes to take food after only a
few weeks of training. Since tool-use training induced rapid morphological
changes in some restricted brain areas, this system will be a good model for
studying the neural basis of plasticity in human brains. To examine the
mechanisms of tool-use associated brain expansion on the molecular and cellular
level, here, we performed comprehensive analysis of gene expressions with
microarray. We identified various transcripts showing differential expression
between trained and untrained monkeys in the region around the lateral and
intraparietal sulci. Among candidates, we focused on genes related to synapse
formation and function. Using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain
reaction and histochemical analysis, we confirmed at least three genes (ADAM19,
SPON2, and WIF1) with statistically different expression levels in neurons and
glial cells. Comparative analysis revealed that tool use-associated genes were
more obviously expressed in macaque monkeys than marmosets or mice. Thus, our
findings suggest that cognitive tasks induce structural changes in the neocortex 
via gene expression, and that learning-associated genes innately differ with
relation to learning ability.

© 2015 The Authors Development, Growth & Differentiation published by Wiley
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd on behalf of Japanese Society of Developmental
Biologists.

DOI: 10.1111/dgd.12227 
PMID: 26173833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. Mitochondrial DNA A DNA Mapp Seq Anal. 2016 Jul;27(4):2943-4. doi:
10.3109/19401736.2015.1060452. Epub 2015 Jul 10.

Complete mitochondrial genome of Callithrix kuhlii (Primates: Callitrichinae)
with phylogenetic consideration.

Zhang X(1)(2), Pan F(3), Wu ZW(4).

Author information: 
(1)a The Union Projection Department , Military Transportation University ,
Tianjin , China .
(2)b Institute of Transportation Engineering, Tsinghua University , Beijing ,
China .
(3)c Institute of Military Transportation, Military Transportation University ,
Tianjin , China , and.
(4)d The Basic Course Department , Armed Police Engineering College , Xi'an ,
China.

The Wied's black-tufted-ear marmoset, Callithrix kuhlii, is a New World monkey
that lives in tropical and subtropical forests of eastern Brazil. In this study, 
the mitochondrial genome sequence of this species is determined, which is found
to be 16 500 bp in length and consists of 22 transfer RNA genes, 13
protein-coding genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes and one D-loop control region. The
overall nucleotide composition is 32.73% of A, 26.80% of T, 27.04% of C and
13.43% of G, with an AT content of 59.53%. The genome structure about gene order 
and composition of C. kuhlii mitochondrial genome is similar to those of most
other vertebrates. With the exception of the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6 (ND6)
and eight tRNA genes, all the other genes are encoded on the heavy strand.
Phylogenetic analysis shows that C. kuhlii and C. jacchus are more closely
related to each other than to other marmosets of the genus Callithrix that have
its mitochondrial genome published.

DOI: 10.3109/19401736.2015.1060452 
PMID: 26162052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

