

1197. Mitochondrial DNA A DNA Mapp Seq Anal. 2016 Jul;27(4):2943-4. doi:
10.3109/19401736.2015.1060452. Epub 2015 Jul 10.

Complete mitochondrial genome of Callithrix kuhlii (Primates: Callitrichinae)
with phylogenetic consideration.

Zhang X(1)(2), Pan F(3), Wu ZW(4).

Author information: 
(1)a The Union Projection Department , Military Transportation University ,
Tianjin , China .
(2)b Institute of Transportation Engineering, Tsinghua University , Beijing ,
China .
(3)c Institute of Military Transportation, Military Transportation University ,
Tianjin , China , and.
(4)d The Basic Course Department , Armed Police Engineering College , Xi'an ,
China.

The Wied's black-tufted-ear marmoset, Callithrix kuhlii, is a New World monkey
that lives in tropical and subtropical forests of eastern Brazil. In this study, 
the mitochondrial genome sequence of this species is determined, which is found
to be 16 500 bp in length and consists of 22 transfer RNA genes, 13
protein-coding genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes and one D-loop control region. The
overall nucleotide composition is 32.73% of A, 26.80% of T, 27.04% of C and
13.43% of G, with an AT content of 59.53%. The genome structure about gene order 
and composition of C. kuhlii mitochondrial genome is similar to those of most
other vertebrates. With the exception of the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6 (ND6)
and eight tRNA genes, all the other genes are encoded on the heavy strand.
Phylogenetic analysis shows that C. kuhlii and C. jacchus are more closely
related to each other than to other marmosets of the genus Callithrix that have
its mitochondrial genome published.

DOI: 10.3109/19401736.2015.1060452 
PMID: 26162052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1198. Exp Anim. 2015;64(4):363-8. doi: 10.1538/expanim.15-0010. Epub 2015 Jul 8.

Pentatrichomonas hominis in laboratory-bred common marmosets.

Inoue T(1), Hayashimoto N, Yasuda M, Sasaki E, Itoh T.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku,
Kawasaki, Kanagawa 210-0821, Japan.

Trichomonadid protozoa have been found in the intestinal tracts of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). However, there is little information available on
species identification and the pathogenicity of these trichomonads. In this
study, we conducted a fecal survey of a common marmoset colony maintained as
laboratory animals in Japan and identified the trichomonad species. Screening
using a fecal smear examination revealed that 66% (58/88) of the marmosets had
trichomonadid trophozoites in their feces. The trichomonads were found in both
normal feces (31/49, 63%) and diarrhea (27/39, 69%), with no significant
difference in frequency. The protozoa were identified as Pentatrichomonas hominis
using morphological characters and the 100% identity of the nucleotide sequence
of the partial 18S rRNA gene (297 bp). The intraspecific genetic variability
between P. hominis from the marmosets in this study and P. hominis from other
reported mammal hosts was ≤1% in the nucleotide sequence, including the internal 
transcribed spacer (ITS)-1, 5.8S rRNA gene, and ITS-2 (293 bp). P. hominis
inhabits the large intestine of various mammalian hosts, including primates, and 
is considered nonpathogenic. These results suggest that P. hominis is transmitted
among marmosets and other mammals but is not a primary cause of bowel disease in 
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.15-0010 
PMCID: PMC4637372
PMID: 26156572  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

