

1203. Xenobiotica. 2016;46(2):163-8. doi: 10.3109/00498254.2015.1057270. Epub 2015 Jun 
26.

Simultaneous pharmacokinetics evaluation of human cytochrome P450 probes,
caffeine, warfarin, omeprazole, metoprolol and midazolam, in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Uehara S(1), Inoue T(2), Utoh M(1)(3), Toda A(3), Shimizu M(1), Uno Y(3), Sasaki 
E(4)(5), Yamazaki H(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Showa Pharmaceutical University , Machida, Tokyo , Japan .
(2)b Marmoset Research Department, Central Institute for Experimental Animals ,
Kawasaki , Japan .
(3)c Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd. , Kainan, Wakayama , Japan .
(4)d Center of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for Experimental 
Animals , Kawasaki , Japan , and.
(5)e Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University , Minato-Ku, Tokyo , Japan.

1. Pharmacokinetics of human cytochrome P450 probes (caffeine, racemic warfarin, 
omeprazole, metoprolol and midazolam) composite, after single intravenous and
oral administrations at doses of 0.20 and 1.0 mg kg(-1), respectively, to four
male common marmosets were investigated. 2. The plasma concentrations of caffeine
and warfarin decreased slowly in a monophasic manner but those of omeprazole,
metoprolol and midazolam decreased extensively after intravenous and oral
administrations, in a manner that approximated those as reported for
pharmacokinetics in humans. 3. Bioavailabilities were ∼100% for caffeine and
warfarin, but <25% for omeprazole and metoprolol. Bioavailability of midazolam
was 4% in marmosets, presumably because of contribution of marmoset P450 3A4
expressed in small intestine and liver, with a high catalytic efficiency for
midazolam 1'-hydroxylation as evident in the recombinant system. 4. These results
suggest that common marmosets, despite their rapid clearance of some human P450
probe substrates, could be an experimental model for humans and that marmoset
P450s have functional characteristics that differ from those of human and/or
cynomolgus monkey P450s in some aspects, indicating their importance in modeling 
in P450-dependent drug metabolism studies in marmosets and of further studies.

DOI: 10.3109/00498254.2015.1057270 
PMID: 26114209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1204. Am J Primatol. 2016 Mar;78(3):372-87. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22431. Epub 2015 Jun 25.

Complex cooperative breeders: Using infant care costs to explain variability in
callitrichine social and reproductive behavior.

Díaz-Muñoz SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Ecology, Behavior and Evolution, University of California, San
Diego, California.

The influence of ecology on social behavior and mating strategies is one of the
central questions in behavioral ecology and primatology. Callitrichines are New
World primates that exhibit high behavioral variability, which is widely
acknowledged, but not always systematically researched. Here, I examine the
hypothesis that differences in the cost of infant care among genera help explain 
variation in reproductive traits. I present an integrative approach to generate
and evaluate predictions from this hypothesis. I first identify callitrichine
traits that vary minimally and traits that are more flexible (e.g., have greater 
variance or norm of reaction), including the number of males that mate with a
breeding female, mechanisms of male reproductive competition, number of natal
young retained, and the extent of female reproductive suppression. I outline how 
these more labile traits should vary along a continuum of infant care costs
according to individual reproductive strategies. At one end of the spectrum, I
predict that groups with higher infant care costs will show multiple adult males 
mating and providing infant care, high subordinate female reproductive
suppression, few natal individuals delaying dispersal, and increased reproductive
output by the dominant female -with opposite predictions under low infant costs. 
I derive an estimate of the differences in ecological and physiological infant
care costs that suggest an order of ascending costs in the wild: Cebuella,
Callithrix, Mico, Callimico, Saguinus, and Leontopithecus. I examine the
literature on each genus for the most variable traits and evaluate a) where they 
fall along the continuum of infant care costs according to their reproductive
strategies, and b) whether these costs correspond to the ecophysiological
estimates of infant care costs. I conclude that infant care costs can provide a
unifying explanation for the most variable reproductive traits among
callitrichine genera. The approach presented can be used to generate predictions 
and motivate researchers to unravel complexity in callitrichine social and
reproductive behavior.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22431 
PMID: 26111848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

