

1205. J Acoust Soc Am. 2015 Jun;137(6):3068-76. doi: 10.1121/1.4921607.

The source-filter theory of whistle-like calls in marmosets: Acoustic analysis
and simulation of helium-modulated voices.

Koda H(1), Tokuda IT(2), Wakita M(1), Ito T(3), Nishimura T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga
525-8577, Japan.
(3)Department of Human Biology and Anatomy, Graduate School of Medicine,
University of the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Okinawa 903-0215, Japan.

Whistle-like high-pitched "phee" calls are often used as long-distance vocal
advertisements by small-bodied marmosets and tamarins in the dense forests of
South America. While the source-filter theory proposes that vibration of the
vocal fold is modified independently from the resonance of the supralaryngeal
vocal tract (SVT) in human speech, a source-filter coupling that constrains the
vibration frequency to SVT resonance effectively produces loud tonal sounds in
some musical instruments. Here, a combined approach of acoustic analyses and
simulation with helium-modulated voices was used to show that phee calls are
produced principally with the same mechanism as in human speech. The animal keeps
the fundamental frequency (f0) close to the first formant (F1) of the SVT, to
amplify f0. Although f0 and F1 are primarily independent, the degree of their
tuning can be strengthened further by a flexible source-filter interaction, the
variable strength of which depends upon the cross-sectional area of the laryngeal
cavity. The results highlight the evolutionary antiquity and universality of the 
source-filter model in primates, but the study can also explore the
diversification of vocal physiology, including source-filter interaction and its 
anatomical basis in non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4921607 
PMID: 26093398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. Neurosci Res. 2015 Sep;98:35-44. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.05.001. Epub 2015 Jun
17.

Histological and electrophysiological analysis of the corticospinal pathway to
forelimb motoneurons in common marmosets.

Kondo T(1), Yoshihara Y(2), Yoshino-Saito K(3), Sekiguchi T(2), Kosugi A(2),
Miyazaki Y(2), Nishimura Y(4), Okano HJ(5), Nakamura M(6), Okano H(1), Isa T(4), 
Ushiba J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)School of Fundamental Science and Technology, Graduate School of Science and
Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Developmental Physiology, National Institute for Physiological
Sciences, Aichi, Japan.
(5)Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(6)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan; Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Keio
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
ushiba@brain.bio.keio.ac.jp.

Using histological and electrophysiological methods, we identified the
neuroanatomical properties of the common marmoset corticospinal tract (CST),
which underlies hand/arm motor control. Biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was
injected into the primary motor cortex to anterogradely label CST axons in the
cervical segments, revealing that most CST axons descend in the contralateral
dorsolateral funiculus (DLF; 85.0%), and some in the ipsilateral DLF (10.7%).
Terminal buttons were mainly found in the contralateral lamina VII of the gray
matter, but projection to lamina IX, where forelimb motoneurons are located, was 
rare. Bilateral projections were more abundant than found in the rat CST,
resembling the CST organization of other primates. Intracellular recordings were 
made from 57 forelimb motoneurons on the contralateral side to stimulation, which
revealed no monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), but di- or
polysynaptic EPSPs and inhibitory synaptic potentials were commonly found. Local 
field potentials showed monosynaptic excitation mainly in laminae VII, where
abundant BDA-labeled CST terminals were observed. These results suggest that
direct corticomotoneuronal projection is absent in common marmosets but di- or
oligosynaptic effects would be mediated by spinal interneurons.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.05.001 
PMID: 26093181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

