

1206. Neurosci Res. 2015 Sep;98:35-44. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.05.001. Epub 2015 Jun
17.

Histological and electrophysiological analysis of the corticospinal pathway to
forelimb motoneurons in common marmosets.

Kondo T(1), Yoshihara Y(2), Yoshino-Saito K(3), Sekiguchi T(2), Kosugi A(2),
Miyazaki Y(2), Nishimura Y(4), Okano HJ(5), Nakamura M(6), Okano H(1), Isa T(4), 
Ushiba J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)School of Fundamental Science and Technology, Graduate School of Science and
Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Developmental Physiology, National Institute for Physiological
Sciences, Aichi, Japan.
(5)Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(6)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan; Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Keio
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
ushiba@brain.bio.keio.ac.jp.

Using histological and electrophysiological methods, we identified the
neuroanatomical properties of the common marmoset corticospinal tract (CST),
which underlies hand/arm motor control. Biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) was
injected into the primary motor cortex to anterogradely label CST axons in the
cervical segments, revealing that most CST axons descend in the contralateral
dorsolateral funiculus (DLF; 85.0%), and some in the ipsilateral DLF (10.7%).
Terminal buttons were mainly found in the contralateral lamina VII of the gray
matter, but projection to lamina IX, where forelimb motoneurons are located, was 
rare. Bilateral projections were more abundant than found in the rat CST,
resembling the CST organization of other primates. Intracellular recordings were 
made from 57 forelimb motoneurons on the contralateral side to stimulation, which
revealed no monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), but di- or
polysynaptic EPSPs and inhibitory synaptic potentials were commonly found. Local 
field potentials showed monosynaptic excitation mainly in laminae VII, where
abundant BDA-labeled CST terminals were observed. These results suggest that
direct corticomotoneuronal projection is absent in common marmosets but di- or
oligosynaptic effects would be mediated by spinal interneurons.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.05.001 
PMID: 26093181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. Sci Rep. 2015 Jun 19;5:10950. doi: 10.1038/srep10950.

High-field functional magnetic resonance imaging of vocalization processing in
marmosets.

Sadagopan S(1), Temiz-Karayol NZ(1), Voss HU(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neural Systems, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065.
(2)Department of Radiology and Citigroup Biomedical Imaging Center, Weill Cornell
Medical College, New York, NY 10021.

Vocalizations are behaviorally critical sounds, and this behavioral importance is
reflected in the ascending auditory system, where conspecific vocalizations are
increasingly over-represented at higher processing stages. Recent evidence
suggests that, in macaques, this increasing selectivity for vocalizations might
culminate in a cortical region that is densely populated by
vocalization-preferring neurons. Such a region might be a critical node in the
representation of vocal communication sounds, underlying the recognition of
vocalization type, caller and social context. These results raise the questions
of whether cortical specializations for vocalization processing exist in other
species, their cortical location, and their relationship to the auditory
processing hierarchy. To explore cortical specializations for vocalizations in
another species, we performed high-field fMRI of the auditory cortex of a vocal
New World primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using a sparse
imaging paradigm, we discovered a caudal-rostral gradient for the processing of
conspecific vocalizations in marmoset auditory cortex, with regions of the
anterior temporal lobe close to the temporal pole exhibiting the highest
preference for vocalizations. These results demonstrate similar cortical
specializations for vocalization processing in macaques and marmosets, suggesting
that cortical specializations for vocal processing might have evolved before the 
lineages of these species diverged.

DOI: 10.1038/srep10950 
PMCID: PMC4473644
PMID: 26091254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

