

1214. Growth Horm IGF Res. 2015 Aug;25(4):158-67. doi: 10.1016/j.ghir.2015.06.004. Epub
2015 Jun 6.

Coevolution of insulin-like growth factors, insulin and their receptors and
binding proteins in New World Monkeys.

Wallis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry and Biomedicine Group, School of Life Sciences, University of
Sussex, Falmer, Brighton BN1 9QG, UK. Electronic address: M.Wallis@sussex.ac.uk.

Previous work has shown that the evolution of both insulin-like growth factor 1
(IGF1) and insulin shows an episode of accelerated change on the branch leading
to New World Monkeys (NWM). Here the possibility that this is accompanied by a
corresponding episode of accelerated evolution of IGF1 receptor (IGF1R), insulin 
receptor (IR) and/or IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) was investigated. Analysis of 
receptor sequences from a range of primates and some non-primate mammals showed
that accelerated evolution did indeed occur on this branch in the case of IGF1R
and IR, but not for the similar insulin receptor-related receptor (IRRR) which
does not bind insulin or IGF1. Marked accelerated evolution on this branch was
also seen for some IGFBPs, but not the mannose 6-phosphate/IGF2 receptor or
epidermal growth factor receptor. The rate of evolution slowed before divergence 
of the lineages leading to the NWM for which sequences are available (Callithrix 
and Saimiri). For the IGF1R and IR, the accelerated evolution was most marked for
the extracellular domains (ectodomains). Application of the branch-site method
showed dN/dS ratios significantly greater than 1.0 for both receptor ectodomains 
and for IGFBP1, and allowed identification of residues likely to have been
subject to selection. These residues were concentrated in the N-terminal half of 
the IGF1R ectodomain but the C-terminal half of the IR ectodomain, which could
have implications for the formation of hybrid receptors. Overall the results
suggest that adaptive coevolution of IGF1, insulin and their receptors and some
IGFBPs occurred during the evolution of NWM. For the most part, the residues that
change on this branch could not be associated with specific functional aspects
(ligand binding, receptor dimerization, glycosylation) and the physiological
significance of this coevolution remains to be established.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ghir.2015.06.004 
PMID: 26072449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. Stem Cell Res. 2015 Jul;15(1):141-50. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2015.05.010. Epub 2015
May 27.

Marmoset induced pluripotent stem cells: Robust neural differentiation following 
pretreatment with dimethyl sulfoxide.

Qiu Z(1), Mishra A(1), Li M(1), Farnsworth SL(1), Guerra B(2), Lanford RE(2),
Hornsby PJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, United States;
Department of Physiology/Barshop Institute, University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio, United States.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center and Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, United States.
(3)South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, TX, United States;
Department of Physiology/Barshop Institute, University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio, United States. Electronic address: hornsby@uthscsa.edu.

The marmoset is an important nonhuman primate model for regenerative medicine.
For experimental autologous cell therapy based on induced pluripotent (iPS) cells
in the marmoset, cells must be able to undergo robust and reliable directed
differentiation that will not require customization for each specific iPS cell
clone. When marmoset iPS cells were aggregated in a hanging drop format for 3
days, followed by exposure to dual SMAD inhibitors and retinoic acid in monolayer
culture for 3 days, we found substantial variability in the response of different
iPS cell clones. However, when clones were pretreated with 0.05-2% dimethyl
sulfoxide (DMSO) for 24 hours, all clones showed a very similar maximal response 
to the directed differentiation scheme. Peak responses were observed at 0.5% DMSO
in two clones and at 1% DMSO in a third clone. When patterns of gene expression
were examined by microarray analysis, hierarchical clustering showed very similar
responses in all 3 clones when they were pretreated with optimal DMSO
concentrations. The change in phenotype following exposure to DMSO and the 6 day 
hanging drop/monolayer treatment was confirmed by immunocytochemistry. Analysis
of DNA content in DMSO-exposed cells indicated that it is unlikely that DMSO acts
by causing cells to exit from the cell cycle. This approach should be generally
valuable in the directed neural differentiation of pluripotent cells for
experimental cell therapy.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2015.05.010 
PMCID: PMC4516655
PMID: 26070112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

