

1217. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2015 Jun;46(2):350-4. doi: 10.1638/2013-0242R3.1.

FILAMENTOUS FUNGI ISOLATED FROM THE FUR MICROBIOTA OF CALLITRICHIDS KEPT IN
CAPTIVITY IN BRAZIL.

de Freitas RA, Milanelo L, Bondan EF, Bentubo HD.

This study aimed to isolate filamentous fungi from the fur of primates of the
genus Callithrix kept in the Centre for Rehabilitation of Wild Animals (CRWA) at 
the Tietê Ecological Park, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Samples of the fur of 19
specimens of black-tufted marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) and 6 specimens of
white-tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were obtained by the square
carpet technique. The samples were plated on Mycosel™ agar medium (Difco™) and
incubated at 25°C for 21 days. The identification of each isolated mold was based
on its macroscopic and microscopic features and followed classical
recommendations. The following filamentous fungi were isolated: Penicillium spp. 
(76%), Cladosporium spp. (60%), Acremonium spp. (44%), Scopulariopsis spp. (24%),
Aspergillus spp. (16%), Chrysosporium spp. (16%), and Fusarium spp. (8%).
Dermatophyte fungi were not detected. We conclude that C. penicillata and C.
jacchus kept in captivity are sources of potentially pathogenic filamentous fungi
that may represent a risk factor for immunocompromised individuals who may
eventually establish contact with them.

DOI: 10.1638/2013-0242R3.1 
PMID: 26056892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1218. J Anat. 2015 Jul;227(1):72-80. doi: 10.1111/joa.12327. Epub 2015 Jun 5.

Comparative analysis of Meissner's corpuscles in the fingertips of primates.

Verendeev A(1), Thomas C(1), McFarlin SC(1), Hopkins WD(2)(3), Phillips KA(4),
Sherwood CC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Center for the Advanced Study of Human
Paleobiology, The George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Institute and Language Center, Georgia State University, Atlanta,
GA, USA.
(3)Division of Developmental and Cognitive Neuroscience, Yerkes National Primate 
Research Center, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Meissner's corpuscles (MCs) are tactile mechanoreceptors found in the glabrous
skin of primates, including fingertips. These receptors are characterized by
sensitivity to light touch, and therefore might be associated with the evolution 
of manipulative abilities of the hands in primates. We examined MCs in different 
primate species, including common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, n = 5), baboon
(Papio anubis, n = 2), rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta, n = 3), chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes, n = 3), bonobo (Pan paniscus, n = 1) and human (Homo sapiens,
n = 8). Fingertips of the first, second and fourth digits were collected from
both hands of specimens, dissected and histologically stained using hematoxylin
and eosin. The density (MCs per 1 mm(2) ) and the size (cross-sectional diameter 
of MCs) were quantified. Overall, there were no differences in the densities of
MCs or their size among the digits or between the hands for any species examined.
However, MCs varied across species. We found a trend for higher densities of MCs 
in macaques and humans compared with chimpanzees and bonobos; moreover, apes had 
larger MCs than monkeys. We further examined whether the density or size of MCs
varied as a function of body mass, measures of dexterity and dietary frugivory.
Among these variables, only body size accounted for a significant amount of
variation in the size of MCs.

© 2015 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.12327 
PMCID: PMC4475360
PMID: 26053332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

