

1221. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Aug;114(2):869-78. doi: 10.1152/jn.00152.2015. Epub 2015 Jun
3.

Spatial precision of population activity in primate area MT.

Chen SC(1), Morley JW(2), Solomon SG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; School of Medical
Sciences, The University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia;
spencer.chen@utexas.edu.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Western Sydney, Penrith, New South Wales,
Australia; and.
(3)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia; Institute for Behavioural Neuroscience, University College London,
London, United Kingdom.

The middle temporal (MT) area is a cortical area integral to the "where" pathway 
of primate visual processing, signaling the movement and position of objects in
the visual world. The receptive field of a single MT neuron is sensitive to the
direction of object motion but is too large to signal precise spatial position.
Here, we asked if the activity of MT neurons could be combined to support the
high spatial precision required in the where pathway. With the use of
multielectrode arrays, we recorded simultaneously neural activity at 24-65 sites 
in area MT of anesthetized marmoset monkeys. We found that although individual
receptive fields span more than 5° of the visual field, the combined population
response can support fine spatial discriminations (<0.2°). This is because
receptive fields at neighboring sites overlapped substantially, and changes in
spatial position are therefore projected onto neural activity in a large ensemble
of neurons. This fine spatial discrimination is supported primarily by neurons
with receptive fields flanking the target locations. Population performance is
degraded (by 13-22%) when correlations in neural activity are ignored, further
reflecting the contribution of population neural interactions. Our results show
that population signals can provide high spatial precision despite large
receptive fields, allowing area MT to represent both the motion and the position 
of objects in the visual world.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00152.2015 
PMCID: PMC4533107
PMID: 26041825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1222. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2015 Sep;232(17):3287-95. doi:
10.1007/s00213-015-3978-y. Epub 2015 Jun 5.

Behavioral and neurophysiological effects of Ro 10-5824, a dopamine D4 receptor
partial agonist, in common marmosets.

Nakazawa S(1), Murai T, Miyauchi M, Kotani M, Ikeda K.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd,
33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan.

RATIONALE: Growing evidence suggests that dopamine D4 receptors (D4Rs) are
involved in controlling executive functions. We have previously demonstrated that
Ro 10-5824, a D4R partial agonist, improves the performance of common marmosets
in the object retrieval detour (ORD) task. However, the neural mechanisms
underlying this improvement are unknown.
OBJECTIVES: We investigated the behavioral and neurophysiological effects of Ro
10-5824 in common marmosets.
METHODS: The effects of Ro 10-5824 on cognitive function were evaluated using the
ORD task. The neurophysiological effects of Ro 10-5824 were investigated by
quantitative electroencephalography, especially on baseline gamma band activity
in the frontal cortex. The effects of Ro 10-5824 on spontaneous locomotion were
also assessed.
RESULTS: Systemic administration of Ro 10-5824 at 3 mg/kg significantly increased
the success rate in the ORD task. At doses of 1 and 3 mg/kg, Ro 10-5824 increased
baseline gamma band activity in the frontal cortex. Ro 10-5824 had no effect on
spontaneous locomotion.
CONCLUSIONS: Activation of D4R by Ro 10-5824 improves the success rate in the ORD
task and increases baseline gamma band activity in the frontal cortex without
affecting locomotion in common marmosets. These findings highlight the role of
D4R in gamma oscillations of non-human primates. As gamma oscillations are
thought to be involved in attention and behavioral inhibition, our results
suggest D4R agonists may improve these cognitive functions by modulating baseline
gamma band activity in the frontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-015-3978-y 
PMID: 26041337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

