

1222. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2015 Sep;232(17):3287-95. doi:
10.1007/s00213-015-3978-y. Epub 2015 Jun 5.

Behavioral and neurophysiological effects of Ro 10-5824, a dopamine D4 receptor
partial agonist, in common marmosets.

Nakazawa S(1), Murai T, Miyauchi M, Kotani M, Ikeda K.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd,
33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan.

RATIONALE: Growing evidence suggests that dopamine D4 receptors (D4Rs) are
involved in controlling executive functions. We have previously demonstrated that
Ro 10-5824, a D4R partial agonist, improves the performance of common marmosets
in the object retrieval detour (ORD) task. However, the neural mechanisms
underlying this improvement are unknown.
OBJECTIVES: We investigated the behavioral and neurophysiological effects of Ro
10-5824 in common marmosets.
METHODS: The effects of Ro 10-5824 on cognitive function were evaluated using the
ORD task. The neurophysiological effects of Ro 10-5824 were investigated by
quantitative electroencephalography, especially on baseline gamma band activity
in the frontal cortex. The effects of Ro 10-5824 on spontaneous locomotion were
also assessed.
RESULTS: Systemic administration of Ro 10-5824 at 3 mg/kg significantly increased
the success rate in the ORD task. At doses of 1 and 3 mg/kg, Ro 10-5824 increased
baseline gamma band activity in the frontal cortex. Ro 10-5824 had no effect on
spontaneous locomotion.
CONCLUSIONS: Activation of D4R by Ro 10-5824 improves the success rate in the ORD
task and increases baseline gamma band activity in the frontal cortex without
affecting locomotion in common marmosets. These findings highlight the role of
D4R in gamma oscillations of non-human primates. As gamma oscillations are
thought to be involved in attention and behavioral inhibition, our results
suggest D4R agonists may improve these cognitive functions by modulating baseline
gamma band activity in the frontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-015-3978-y 
PMID: 26041337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. Stem Cells Transl Med. 2015 Jul;4(7):708-19. doi: 10.5966/sctm.2014-0215. Epub
2015 May 27.

Allogeneic Neural Stem/Progenitor Cells Derived From Embryonic Stem Cells Promote
Functional Recovery After Transplantation Into Injured Spinal Cord of Nonhuman
Primates.

Iwai H(1), Shimada H(1), Nishimura S(1), Kobayashi Y(1), Itakura G(1), Hori K(1),
Hikishima K(1), Ebise H(1), Negishi N(1), Shibata S(1), Habu S(1), Toyama Y(1),
Nakamura M(2), Okano H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery and Physiology, Keio University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan; Genomic Science Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Osaka, 
Japan; Department of Immunology, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery and Physiology, Keio University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan; Genomic Science Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Osaka, 
Japan; Department of Immunology, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan
hidokano@a2.keio.jp masa@a8.keio.jp.

: Previous studies have demonstrated that neural stem/progenitor cells (NS/PCs)
promote functional recovery in rodent animal models of spinal cord injury (SCI). 
Because distinct differences exist in the neuroanatomy and immunological
responses between rodents and primates, it is critical to determine the
effectiveness and safety of allografted embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived NS/PCs 
(ESC-NS/PCs) in a nonhuman primate SCI model. In the present study, common
marmoset ESC-NS/PCs were grafted into the lesion epicenter 14 days after
contusive SCI in adult marmosets (transplantation group). In the control group,
phosphate-buffered saline was injected instead of cells. In the presence of a
low-dose of tacrolimus, several grafted cells survived without tumorigenicity and
differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, or oligodendrocytes. Significant
differences were found in the transverse areas of luxol fast blue-positive myelin
sheaths, neurofilament-positive axons, corticospinal tract fibers, and platelet
endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1-positive vessels at the lesion epicenter
between the transplantation and control groups. Immunoelectron microscopic
examination demonstrated that the grafted ESC-NS/PC-derived oligodendrocytes
contributed to the remyelination of demyelinated axons. In addition, some grafted
neurons formed synaptic connections with host cells, and some transplanted
neurons were myelinated by host cells. Eventually, motor functional recovery
significantly improved in the transplantation group compared with the control
group. In addition, a mixed lymphocyte reaction assay indicated that ESC-NS/PCs
modulated the allogeneic immune rejection. Taken together, our results indicate
that allogeneic transplantation of ESC-NS/PCs from a nonhuman primate promoted
functional recovery after SCI without tumorigenicity.SIGNIFICANCE: This study
demonstrates that allogeneic embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived neural
stem/progenitor cells (NS/PCs) promoted functional recovery after transplantation
into the injured spinal cord in nonhuman primates. ESC-NS/PCs were chosen because
ESC-NS/PCs are one of the controls for induced pluripotent stem cell-derived
NS/PCs and because ESC derivatives are possible candidates for clinical use. This
translational research using an allograft model of a nonhuman primate is critical
for clinical application of grafting NS/PCs derived from various allogeneic
pluripotent stem cells, especially induced pluripotent stem cells, into injured
spinal cord at the subacute phase.

Â©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.5966/sctm.2014-0215 
PMCID: PMC4479619
PMID: 26019226 

