

1228. J Exp Biol. 2015 Jul;218(Pt 14):2166-73. doi: 10.1242/jeb.117655. Epub 2015 May
18.

Muscle contractile properties as an explanation of the higher mean power output
in marmosets than humans during jumping.

Plas RL(1), Degens H(2), Meijer JP(1), de Wit GM(3), Philippens IH(4), Bobbert
MF(3), Jaspers RT(5).

Author information: 
(1)MOVE Research Institute Amsterdam, Faculty of Human Movement Sciences, VU
University Amsterdam, Van der Boechorstraat 9, Amsterdam NL-1081 BT, The
Netherlands School of Healthcare Science, Cognitive Motor Function Research
Group, School of Healthcare Science, Manchester Metropolitan University, Chester 
Street, Manchester M1 5GD, UK.
(2)School of Healthcare Science, Cognitive Motor Function Research Group, School 
of Healthcare Science, Manchester Metropolitan University, Chester Street,
Manchester M1 5GD, UK.
(3)MOVE Research Institute Amsterdam, Faculty of Human Movement Sciences, VU
University Amsterdam, Van der Boechorstraat 9, Amsterdam NL-1081 BT, The
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Immunobiology, Division Neuropathology, Biomedical Primate
Research Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(5)MOVE Research Institute Amsterdam, Faculty of Human Movement Sciences, VU
University Amsterdam, Van der Boechorstraat 9, Amsterdam NL-1081 BT, The
Netherlands r.t.jaspers@vu.nl.

The muscle mass-specific mean power output (PMMS,mean) during push-off in jumping
in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) is more than twice that in humans. In the
present study it was tested whether this is attributable to differences in muscle
contractile properties. In biopsies of marmoset m. vastus lateralis (VL) and m.
gastrocnemius medialis (GM) (N=4), fibre-type distribution was assessed using
fluorescent immunohistochemistry. In single fibres from four marmoset and nine
human VL biopsies, the force-velocity characteristics were determined. Marmoset
VL contained almost exclusively fast muscle fibres (>99.0%), of which 63% were
type IIB and 37% were hybrid fibres, fibres containing multiple myosin heavy
chains. GM contained 9% type I fibres, 44% type IIB and 47% hybrid muscle fibres.
The proportions of fast muscle fibres in marmoset VL and GM were substantially
larger than those reported in the corresponding human muscles. The curvature of
the force-velocity relationships of marmoset type IIB and hybrid fibres was
substantially flatter than that of human type I, IIA, IIX and hybrid fibres,
resulting in substantially higher muscle fibre mass-specific peak power
(PFMS,peak). Muscle mass-specific peak power output (PMMS,peak) values of
marmoset whole VL and GM, estimated from their fibre-type distributions and
force-velocity characteristics, were more than twice the estimates for the
corresponding human muscles. As the relative difference in estimated PMMS,peak
between marmosets and humans is similar to that of PMMS,mean during push-off in
jumping, it is likely that the difference in in vivo mechanical output between
humans and marmosets is attributable to differences in muscle contractile
properties.

© 2015. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.117655 
PMID: 25987730  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1229. Cryobiology. 2015 Aug;71(1):103-11. doi: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2015.05.001. Epub
2015 May 14.

Multipotent stromal cells derived from common marmoset Callithrix jacchus within 
alginate 3D environment: Effect of cryopreservation procedures.

Gryshkov O(1), Hofmann N(2), Lauterboeck L(3), Pogozhykh D(4), Mueller T(5),
Glasmacher B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
gryshkov@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
hofmann@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(3)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
lauterboeck@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(4)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
Pogozhykh.Denys@mh-hannover.de.
(5)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
mueller.thomas@mh-hannover.de.
(6)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
glasmacher@imp.uni-hannover.de.

Multipotent stromal cells derived from the common marmoset monkey Callithrix
jacchus (cjMSCs) possess high phylogenetic similarity to humans, with a great
potential for preclinical studies in the field of regenerative medicine. Safe and
effective long-term storage of cells is of great significance to clinical and
research applications. Encapsulation of such cell types within alginate beads
that can mimic an extra-cellular matrix and provide a supportive environment for 
cells during cryopreservation, has several advantages over freezing of cells in
suspension. In this study we have analysed the effect of dimethyl sulfoxide
(Me2SO, 2.5-10%, v/v) and pre-freeze loading time of alginate encapsulated cjMSCs
in Me2SO (0-45 min) on the viability and metabolic activity of the cells after
freezing using a slow cooling rate (-1°C/min). It was found that these parameters
affect the stability and homogeneity of alginate beads after thawing. Moreover,
the cjMSCs can be frozen in alginate beads with lower Me2SO concentration of 7.5%
after 30 min of loading, while retaining high cryopreservation outcome. We
demonstrated the maximum viability, membrane integrity and metabolic activity of 
the cells under optimized, less cytotoxic conditions. The results of this study
are another step forward towards the application of cryopreservation for the
long-term storage and subsequent applications of transplants in cell-based
therapies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2015.05.001 
PMID: 25980899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

