

1229. Cryobiology. 2015 Aug;71(1):103-11. doi: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2015.05.001. Epub
2015 May 14.

Multipotent stromal cells derived from common marmoset Callithrix jacchus within 
alginate 3D environment: Effect of cryopreservation procedures.

Gryshkov O(1), Hofmann N(2), Lauterboeck L(3), Pogozhykh D(4), Mueller T(5),
Glasmacher B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
gryshkov@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
hofmann@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(3)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
lauterboeck@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(4)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
Pogozhykh.Denys@mh-hannover.de.
(5)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
mueller.thomas@mh-hannover.de.
(6)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
glasmacher@imp.uni-hannover.de.

Multipotent stromal cells derived from the common marmoset monkey Callithrix
jacchus (cjMSCs) possess high phylogenetic similarity to humans, with a great
potential for preclinical studies in the field of regenerative medicine. Safe and
effective long-term storage of cells is of great significance to clinical and
research applications. Encapsulation of such cell types within alginate beads
that can mimic an extra-cellular matrix and provide a supportive environment for 
cells during cryopreservation, has several advantages over freezing of cells in
suspension. In this study we have analysed the effect of dimethyl sulfoxide
(Me2SO, 2.5-10%, v/v) and pre-freeze loading time of alginate encapsulated cjMSCs
in Me2SO (0-45 min) on the viability and metabolic activity of the cells after
freezing using a slow cooling rate (-1°C/min). It was found that these parameters
affect the stability and homogeneity of alginate beads after thawing. Moreover,
the cjMSCs can be frozen in alginate beads with lower Me2SO concentration of 7.5%
after 30 min of loading, while retaining high cryopreservation outcome. We
demonstrated the maximum viability, membrane integrity and metabolic activity of 
the cells under optimized, less cytotoxic conditions. The results of this study
are another step forward towards the application of cryopreservation for the
long-term storage and subsequent applications of transplants in cell-based
therapies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2015.05.001 
PMID: 25980899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1230. Int Immunol. 2015 Nov;27(11):567-77. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxv031. Epub 2015 May
14.

Common marmoset CD117+ hematopoietic cells possess multipotency.

Shimada S(1), Nunomura S(2), Mori S(3), Suemizu H(4), Itoh T(4), Takabayashi
S(5), Okada Y(6), Yahata T(7), Shiina T(1), Katoh H(5), Suzuki R(8), Tani K(9),
Ando K(6), Yagita H(10), Habu S(10), Sasaki E(4), Kametani Y(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Japan.
(2)Division of Molecular Cell Immunology, Advanced Medical Research Center, Nihon
University Graduate School of Medical Science, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Japan Department of Hematology, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Japan.
(4)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(5)Experimental Animals Institute, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Shizuoka, Japan.
(6)Support Center for Medical Research and Education, Tokai University School of 
Medicine, Isehara, Japan.
(7)Department of Hematology, Tokai University School of Medicine, Isehara, Japan.
(8)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Sagamihara, Japan.
(9)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Department of Molecular Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(10)Department of Immunology, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(11)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Japan y-kametn@is.icc.u-tokai.ac.jp.

Analysis of the hematopoiesis of non-human primates is important to clarify the
evolution of primate-specific hematopoiesis and immune regulation. However, the
engraftment and development of the primate hematopoietic system are
well-documented only in humans and are not clear in non-human primates.
Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset, CM) is a New World monkey with a high rate
of pregnancy and small size that lives in closed colonies. As stem cell factor
(SCF) is an essential molecule for hematopoietic stem cell development in mice
and humans, we focused on CD117, the SCF receptor, and examined whether
CD117-expressing cells possess the hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell
characteristics of newborn marmoset-derived hematopoietic cells that can develop 
into T cells and B cells. When CD117(+) cell fractions of the bone marrow were
transplanted into immunodeficient NOD (non-obese diabetic)/Shi-scid, common
γc-null (NOG) mice, these cells engrafted efficiently in the bone marrow and
spleens of the NOG mice. The CD117(+) cells developed into myeloid lineage cells,
CD20(+) B cells and CD3(+) T cells, which could express CM cytokines in vivo. The
development of B cells did not precede that of T cells. The development of CD8(+)
T cells was dominant in NOG mice. The engraftment was comparable for both
CD117(+)CD34(+) cells and CD117(+)CD34(-) cells. These results suggest that the
CD117(+) cell fraction can differentiate into all three cell lineages, and the
development of marmoset immunity in the xenogeneic environment follows diverse
developmental pathways compared with human immunity.

© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2015. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxv031 
PMID: 25977306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

