

1233. PLoS One. 2015 May 6;10(5):e0126132. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126132.
eCollection 2015.

Pandemic Swine-Origin H1N1 Influenza Virus Replicates to Higher Levels and
Induces More Fever and Acute Inflammatory Cytokines in Cynomolgus versus Rhesus
Monkeys and Can Replicate in Common Marmosets.

Mooij P(1), Koopman G(1), Mortier D(1), van Heteren M(1), Oostermeijer H(1),
Fagrouch Z(1), de Laat R(1), Kobinger G(2), Li Y(2), Remarque EJ(3), Kondova
I(4), Verschoor EJ(1), Bogers WM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.
(2)National Microbiology Laboratory, Public Health Agency of Canada, Winnipeg,
Manitoba, Canada.
(3)Department of Parasitology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The close immunological and physiological resemblance with humans makes non-human
primates a valuable model for studying influenza virus pathogenesis and immunity 
and vaccine efficacy against infection. Although both cynomolgus and rhesus
macaques are frequently used in influenza virus research, a direct comparison of 
susceptibility to infection and disease has not yet been performed. In the
current study a head-to-head comparison was made between these species, by using 
a recently described swine-origin pandemic H1N1 strain, A/Mexico/InDRE4487/2009. 
In comparison to rhesus macaques, cynomolgus macaques developed significantly
higher levels of virus replication in the upper airways and in the lungs,
involving both peak level and duration of virus production, as well as higher
increases in body temperature. In contrast, clinical symptoms, including
respiratory distress, were more easily observed in rhesus macaques. Expression of
sialyl-α-2,6-Gal saccharides, the main receptor for human influenza A viruses,
was 50 to 73 times more abundant in trachea and bronchus of cynomolgus macaques
relative to rhesus macaques. The study also shows that common marmosets, a New
World non-human primate species, are susceptible to infection with pandemic H1N1.
The study results favor the cynomolgus macaque as model for pandemic H1N1
influenza virus research because of the more uniform and high levels of virus
replication, as well as temperature increases, which may be due to a more
abundant expression of the main human influenza virus receptor in the trachea and
bronchi.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126132 
PMCID: PMC4422689
PMID: 25946071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. Braz J Biol. 2015 Jan-Mar;75(1):91-7. doi: 10.1590/1519-6984.07813.

Translocation and radio-telemetry monitoring of pygmy marmoset, Cebuella pygmaea 
(Spix, 1823), in the Brazilian Amazon.

Dias CA(1), Queirogas VL(2), Pedersoli MA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Filosofia Ciências e Letras do Alto São
Francisco, Luz, MG, Brazil.
(2)Ecológica Soluções Ambientais, Bom Despacho, MG, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Mastozoologia e Vertebrados Terrestres, Departamento de
Biologia, Universidade Federal de Rondônia, Porto Velho, RO, Brazil.

Two groups of pygmy marmoset (Cebuella pygmaea) were rescued along the left bank 
of the Madeira River during the formation of Santo Antônio Hydroelectric Dam
reservoir in the state of Rondônia, Northern Brazil. Reintroduction of both
groups occurred in areas of open Tropical rainforest located within the project´s
Permanent Preservation Area. A post-release monitoring was conducted for three
months using radio-telemetry. Individuals of each group remained together and
settled in stable home ranges near their respective release sites. The mortality 
rate of translocated animals was about 7%. This seems to be the first report
documenting the complete group translocation of C. pygmaea and the first to
successfully employ radio-telemetry techniques in monitoring this species. This
study demonstrated the feasibility of translocation and the use of
radio-telemetry in monitoring C. pygmaea.

DOI: 10.1590/1519-6984.07813 
PMID: 25945625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

