

1237. Behav Brain Res. 2015 Sep 1;290:90-101. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.04.037. Epub 2015
Apr 28.

Characterization of long-term motor deficits in the 6-OHDA model of Parkinson's
disease in the common marmoset.

Santana M(1), Palmér T(2), Simplício H(3), Fuentes R(4), Petersson P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute, Macaíba/RN 59280-000, Brazil; Psychobiology Program, Federal Univ. of 
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 59078-970, Brazil; Bacharelado em Ciências
Biológicas, Instituto de Ciências e Tecnologia das Águas, Universidade Federal do
Oeste do Pará (UFOPA), Santarém, Pará, Brazil.
(2)Integrative Neurophysiology and Neurotechnology, Neuronano Research Center,
Department of Experimental Medical Sciences, Lund University, Medicon Village,
Building 404 A2 Scheelevägen 8, 223 81 Lund, Sweden; Mathematics LTH Centre for
Mathematical Sciences, Faculty of Engineering, Lund University, S-22184 Lund,
Sweden.
(3)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute, Macaíba/RN 59280-000, Brazil; State Univ. of Rio Grande do Norte,
Mossoró/RN, 59610-210, Brazil.
(4)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute, Macaíba/RN 59280-000, Brazil; Programa de Fisiologa y Biofísica,
Instituto de Ciencias Biomédicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile,
Independencia 1027, Santiago 8389100, Chile.
(5)Integrative Neurophysiology and Neurotechnology, Neuronano Research Center,
Department of Experimental Medical Sciences, Lund University, Medicon Village,
Building 404 A2 Scheelevägen 8, 223 81 Lund, Sweden. Electronic address:
Per.Petersson@med.lu.se.

Research aimed at developing new therapies for Parkinson's disease (PD)
critically depend on valid animal models of the disease that allows for repeated 
testing of motor disabilities over extended time periods. We here present an
extensive characterization of a wide range of motor symptoms in the 6-OHDA
marmoset model of PD when tested over several months. The severity of motor
deficits was quantified in two ways: (i) through manual scoring protocols
appropriately adapted to include species specific motor behavior and (ii) using
automated quantitative motion tracking based on image processing of the digital
video recordings. We show that the automated methods allow for rapid and reliable
characterization of motor dysfunctions, thus complementing the manual scoring
procedures, and that robust motor symptoms lasting for several months could be
induced when using a two-stage neurotoxic lesioning procedure involving one
hemisphere at a time. This non-human primate model of PD should therefore be well
suited for long-term evaluation of novel therapies for treatment of PD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.04.037 
PMID: 25934488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Horm Behav. 2015 May;71:83-90. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.04.015. Epub 2015 Apr
28.

Do marmosets care to share? Oxytocin treatment reduces prosocial behavior toward 
strangers.

Mustoe AC(1), Cavanaugh J(2), Harnisch AM(3), Thompson BE(3), French JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
Electronic address: amustoe@unomaha.edu.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(4)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.

Cooperatively-breeding and socially-monogamous primates, like marmosets and
humans, exhibit high levels of social tolerance and prosociality toward others.
Oxytocin (OXT) generally facilitates prosocial behavior, but there is growing
recognition that OXT modulation of prosocial behavior is shaped by the context of
social interactions and by other motivational states such as arousal or anxiety. 
To determine whether prosociality varies based on social context, we evaluated
whether marmoset donors (Callithrix penicillata) preferentially rewarded
pairmates versus opposite-sex strangers in a prosocial food-sharing task. To
examine potential links among OXT, stress systems, and prosociality, we evaluated
whether pretrial cortisol levels in marmosets altered the impact of OXT on
prosocial responses. Marmosets exhibited spontaneous prosociality toward others, 
but they did so preferentially toward strangers compared to their pairmates. When
donor marmosets were treated with marmoset-specific Pro(8)-OXT, they exhibited
reduced prosociality toward strangers compared to marmosets treated with saline
or consensus-mammalian Leu(8)-OXT. When pretrial cortisol levels were lower,
marmosets exhibited higher prosociality toward strangers. These findings
demonstrate that while marmosets show spontaneous prosocial responses toward
others, they do so preferentially toward opposite-sex strangers. Cooperative
breeding may be associated with the expression of prosociality, but the existence
of a pair-bond between marmoset partners appears to be neither necessary nor
sufficient for the expression of spontaneous prosocial responses. Furthermore,
high prosociality toward strangers is significantly reduced in marmosets treated 
with Pro(8)-OXT, suggesting that OXT does not universally enhance prosociality,
but, rather OXT modulation of prosocial behavior varies depending on social
context.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.04.015 
PMCID: PMC4439329
PMID: 25934057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

