

1240. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Jul;114(1):274-83. doi: 10.1152/jn.00228.2015. Epub 2015 Apr
29.

Cooperative vocal control in marmoset monkeys via vocal feedback.

Choi JY(1), Takahashi DY(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey;
Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey; and.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey;
Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey; and
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
New Jersey asifg@princeton.edu.

Humans adjust speech amplitude as a function of distance from a listener; we do
so in a manner that would compensate for such distance. This ability is presumed 
to be the product of high-level sociocognitive skills. Nonhuman primates are
thought to lack such socially related flexibility in vocal production. Using
predictions from a simple arousal-based model whereby vocal feedback from a
conspecific modulates the drive to produce a vocalization, we tested whether
another primate exhibits this type of cooperative vocal control. We conducted a
playback experiment with marmoset monkeys and simulated "far-away" and "nearby"
conspecifics using contact calls that differed in sound intensity. We found that 
marmoset monkeys increased the amplitude of their contact calls and produced such
calls with shorter response latencies toward more distant conspecifics. The same 
was not true in response to changing levels of background noise. To account for
how simulated conspecific distance can change both the amplitude and timing of
vocal responses, we developed a model that incorporates dynamic interactions
between the auditory system and limbic "drive" systems. Overall, our data show
that, like humans, marmoset monkeys cooperatively control the acoustics of their 
vocalizations according to changes in listener distance, increasing the
likelihood that a conspecific will hear their call. However, we propose that such
cooperative vocal control is a system property that does not necessitate any
particularly advanced sociocognitive skill. At least in marmosets, this vocal
control can be parsimoniously explained by the regulation of arousal states
across two interacting individuals via vocal feedback.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00228.2015 
PMCID: PMC4507967
PMID: 25925323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2015 Jan-Mar;24(1):108-13. doi:
10.1590/S1984-29612015014.

Evaluation of Kato-Katz and spontaneous sedimentation methods for the diagnosis
of platynosomiasis in Neotropical primates.

Mati VL(1), Pinto HA(1), de Melo AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brasil.

Platynosomiasis is a parasitic infection reported in non-human primates,
including marmosets, and is frequently difficult to diagnose. In this study, the 
Kato-Katz method and the spontaneous sedimentation method were evaluated for
their usefulness in identifying Platynosomum eggs in fecal samples from
Callithrix penicillata that naturally harbor Platynosomum illiciens. Spontaneous 
sedimentation allowed the diagnosis of 41.7% (5/12) and 66.7% (8/12) of infected 
marmosets from one and three slides, respectively, prepared from the same fecal
sample. The examination of a single Kato-Katz thick smear detected 83.3% (10/12) 
of infection cases. The analysis of feces on three different days increased the
rate of diagnosis, since 75% (9/12) and 100% (12/12) of the primates with
platynosomiasis were identified using serial spontaneous sedimentation (3
slides/day) and the Kato-Katz method, respectively. The mean number of
Platynosomum eggs per gram of feces determined via the Kato-Katz method was 71.7 
(8-240). The spontaneous sedimentation method when performed in series is
acceptable for the diagnosis of platynosomiasis. However, the Kato-Katz method,
which was here used for the first time to detect this infection, has a higher
diagnostic sensitivity and the advantage that a quantitative analysis of the eggs
released in the host feces is possible.

DOI: 10.1590/S1984-29612015014 
PMID: 25909264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

