

1245. Sci Rep. 2015 Apr 16;5:9622. doi: 10.1038/srep09622.

Opposite effects of male and female helpers on social tolerance and proactive
prosociality in callitrichid family groups.

Burkart JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.

Across a broad variety of primate species (including lemurs, New World monkeys,
Old World monkeys, and apes), proactive prosociality and social tolerance are
linked to allomaternal care, reaching the highest levels in the cooperatively
breeding callitrichid monkeys and humans. However, considerable variation exists 
within callitrichids, and the aim of this study was to identify factors that
explain this variation. Male and female callitrichids pursue different
reproductive strategies, leading males to play a more prominent role in
allomothering. We thus hypothesised that prosociality and tolerance may be
affected by group composition and sex differences. We analysed social tolerance
and proactive prosociality data in 49 common marmosets and found that the number 
of female helpers in a group was negatively correlated with group-level
prosociality and tolerance. At the individual level, rearing experience or age
enhanced prosociality in male, but not in female helpers. These findings are
consistent with the more ambivalent role of female helpers in infant rearing.
Adding data from 5 cotton-top and 5 lion tamarins strengthened this pattern. The 
same factor which explains variation in prosociality and tolerance across primate
species, i.e. allomaternal care, is therefore also linked to variation within
common marmosets, and presumably callitrichid monkeys in general.

DOI: 10.1038/srep09622 
PMCID: PMC4399387
PMID: 25881136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. PLoS Comput Biol. 2015 Apr 16;11(4):e1004197. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004197. 
eCollection 2015 Apr.

The role of inhibition in a computational model of an auditory cortical neuron
during the encoding of temporal information.

Bendor D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Experimental Psychology, 
University College London, London, United Kingdom.

In auditory cortex, temporal information within a sound is represented by two
complementary neural codes: a temporal representation based on stimulus-locked
firing and a rate representation, where discharge rate co-varies with the timing 
between acoustic events but lacks a stimulus-synchronized response. Using a
computational neuronal model, we find that stimulus-locked responses are
generated when sound-evoked excitation is combined with strong, delayed
inhibition. In contrast to this, a non-synchronized rate representation is
generated when the net excitation evoked by the sound is weak, which occurs when 
excitation is coincident and balanced with inhibition. Using single-unit
recordings from awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), we validate several model
predictions, including differences in the temporal fidelity, discharge rates and 
temporal dynamics of stimulus-evoked responses between neurons with rate and
temporal representations. Together these data suggest that feedforward inhibition
provides a parsimonious explanation of the neural coding dichotomy observed in
auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004197 
PMCID: PMC4400160
PMID: 25879843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

