

1246. PLoS Comput Biol. 2015 Apr 16;11(4):e1004197. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004197. 
eCollection 2015 Apr.

The role of inhibition in a computational model of an auditory cortical neuron
during the encoding of temporal information.

Bendor D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Experimental Psychology, 
University College London, London, United Kingdom.

In auditory cortex, temporal information within a sound is represented by two
complementary neural codes: a temporal representation based on stimulus-locked
firing and a rate representation, where discharge rate co-varies with the timing 
between acoustic events but lacks a stimulus-synchronized response. Using a
computational neuronal model, we find that stimulus-locked responses are
generated when sound-evoked excitation is combined with strong, delayed
inhibition. In contrast to this, a non-synchronized rate representation is
generated when the net excitation evoked by the sound is weak, which occurs when 
excitation is coincident and balanced with inhibition. Using single-unit
recordings from awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), we validate several model
predictions, including differences in the temporal fidelity, discharge rates and 
temporal dynamics of stimulus-evoked responses between neurons with rate and
temporal representations. Together these data suggest that feedforward inhibition
provides a parsimonious explanation of the neural coding dichotomy observed in
auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004197 
PMCID: PMC4400160
PMID: 25879843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Jun 1;113(10):3954-60. doi: 10.1152/jn.00197.2015. Epub 2015
Apr 1.

Motion dependence of smooth pursuit eye movements in the marmoset.

Mitchell JF(1), Priebe NJ(2), Miller CT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Systems Neurobiology Lab, The Salk Institute, La Jolla, California; Brain and 
Cognitive Sciences, The University of Rochester, Rochester, New York;
jmitchell@bcs.rochester.edu.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas; 
and.
(3)Department of Psychology and Neurosciences Graduate Program, The University of
California at San Diego, La Jolla, California.

Smooth pursuit eye movements stabilize slow-moving objects on the retina by
matching eye velocity with target velocity. Two critical components are required 
to generate smooth pursuit: first, because it is a voluntary eye movement, the
subject must select a target to pursue to engage the tracking system; and second,
generating smooth pursuit requires a moving stimulus. We examined whether this
behavior also exists in the common marmoset, a New World primate that is
increasingly attracting attention as a genetic model for mental disease and
systems neuroscience. We measured smooth pursuit in two marmosets, previously
trained to perform fixation tasks, using the standard Rashbass step-ramp pursuit 
paradigm. We first measured the aspects of visual motion that drive pursuit eye
movements. Smooth eye movements were in the same direction as target motion,
indicating that pursuit was driven by target movement rather than by
displacement. Both the open-loop acceleration and closed-loop eye velocity
exhibited a linear relationship with target velocity for slow-moving targets, but
this relationship declined for higher speeds. We next examined whether marmoset
pursuit eye movements depend on an active engagement of the pursuit system by
measuring smooth eye movements evoked by small perturbations of motion from
fixation or during pursuit. Pursuit eye movements were much larger during pursuit
than from fixation, indicating that pursuit is actively gated. Several practical 
advantages of the marmoset brain, including the accessibility of the middle
temporal (MT) area and frontal eye fields at the cortical surface, merit its
utilization for studying pursuit movements.

Copyright Â© 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00197.2015 
PMCID: PMC4485767
PMID: 25867740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

