

1250. Am J Primatol. 2015 Jul;77(7):801-10. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22403. Epub 2015 Apr 2.

Measurement of 25-hydroxyvitamin D(2&3) and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2&3) by
tandem mass spectrometry: A primate multispecies comparison.

Ziegler TE(1)(2), Kapoor A(1)(2), Hedman CJ(1)(2)(3), Binkley N(4), Kemnitz
JW(1)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(2)Institute of Clinical and Translational Research, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)Wisconsin State Laboratory of Hygiene, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(5)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.

Vitamin D metabolites are widely studied for their roles in bone health, immune
functions, and other potential physiologic roles in humans. However, the optimal 
blood levels of vitamin D metabolites are still unclear. Various methods for
measuring vitamin D metabolites have been used and recently liquid chromatography
tandem mass spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS) has been adopted as the gold standard for
vitamin D metabolite measurement. Here, we report the use of LC-MS/MS to measure 
25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D(2&3)), and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D
(1,25(OH)2D(2&3)), in three laboratory nonhuman primate species: common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus), rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), and cynomolgus macaque
(Macaca fascicularis), and compare them to humans using the same technique. The
nonhuman primates showed blood levels for 25(OH)D3 and 1,25(OH)2D3 significantly 
higher than human values with marmosets having the highest levels. Marmoset
samples showed significantly more variability among individuals than those from
macaques for both metabolites, but all three nonhuman primate species exhibited
large variation within species for both 25(OH)D(2&3) and 1,25(OH)2D(2&3).
Marmoset females had significantly lower values than the males for 25(OH)D3,
while rhesus males showed a significant decrease in 25(OH)D3 with age. The most
striking finding is the variation within species for vitamin D levels even in
laboratory primates that have a controlled diet, UV exposure, and in some cases, 
genetic constraints. Similar variation in 25(OH)D responses to a fixed dose of
oral vitamin D supplementation has been reported in humans. We suggest that these
species can provide primate models for examining the factors influencing
variation in the levels of vitamin D necessary for human and nonhuman primate
health.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22403 
PMCID: PMC4481142
PMID: 25845705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1251. Anim Reprod Sci. 2015 Jun;157:44-55. doi: 10.1016/j.anireprosci.2015.03.014. Epub
2015 Mar 24.

Body weight-associated differences in ovarian morphology in captive common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Scheerer-Bernhard JU(1), Tkachenko OY(2), Heistermann M(3), Gründker C(4), Nayudu
PL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany; Department of
Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Georg-August-University, Robert-Koch-Street 40, 37075
Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address: johbernhard@gmail.com.
(2)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
tkachenkoe@list.ru.
(3)Endocrinology Laboratory, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
mheistermann@dpz.eu.
(4)Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Georg-August-University,
Robert-Koch-Street 40, 37075 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
grundker@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(5)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
pnayudu@gmail.com.

In captivity, Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is on average heavier than
their wild-living counterparts, and has a tendency to produce triplet litters
rather than the normal twins. To provide initial basic information about possible
weight-related differences among the ovaries, a morphometric study of follicular 
phase ovaries from 48 young adult marmosets has been carried out. Nearly 90% of
these ovaries were found to contain some degree of luteal tissue composed of
large and/or small cells. The luteal structures, follicles of all stages, and
stroma were subjected to morphometric analysis, and these results were compared
with body weight, circulating triglyceride, androstenedione, and total estrogens.
Where only large luteal cells were present, the median body weight was the
highest (only this group included animals over 500 g) compared with mixed, or
only small luteal cells, or absence of luteal cells. Furthermore, in this group
plasma triglycerides were significantly higher compared to other groups,
suggesting possible role of triglycerides in promoting luteinisation. Plasma
androstenedione was also a critical discriminating factor, and was elevated where
large luteal cells were present even as a mixture with small cells suggesting the
large luteal cells to be the likely major ovarian source of this hormone and its 
metabolites. Additionally, the ovaries with large luteal cells compared to those 
containing only small or no luteal cells, had lower primordial follicle reserve
associated with high levels of atresia and luteinisation among growing
non-ovulatory follicles, indicating an accelerated activation, but at the same
time a suboptimal environment for follicular growth.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anireprosci.2015.03.014 
PMID: 25842250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

