

1251. Anim Reprod Sci. 2015 Jun;157:44-55. doi: 10.1016/j.anireprosci.2015.03.014. Epub
2015 Mar 24.

Body weight-associated differences in ovarian morphology in captive common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Scheerer-Bernhard JU(1), Tkachenko OY(2), Heistermann M(3), Gründker C(4), Nayudu
PL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany; Department of
Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Georg-August-University, Robert-Koch-Street 40, 37075
Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address: johbernhard@gmail.com.
(2)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
tkachenkoe@list.ru.
(3)Endocrinology Laboratory, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
mheistermann@dpz.eu.
(4)Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Georg-August-University,
Robert-Koch-Street 40, 37075 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
grundker@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(5)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
pnayudu@gmail.com.

In captivity, Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is on average heavier than
their wild-living counterparts, and has a tendency to produce triplet litters
rather than the normal twins. To provide initial basic information about possible
weight-related differences among the ovaries, a morphometric study of follicular 
phase ovaries from 48 young adult marmosets has been carried out. Nearly 90% of
these ovaries were found to contain some degree of luteal tissue composed of
large and/or small cells. The luteal structures, follicles of all stages, and
stroma were subjected to morphometric analysis, and these results were compared
with body weight, circulating triglyceride, androstenedione, and total estrogens.
Where only large luteal cells were present, the median body weight was the
highest (only this group included animals over 500 g) compared with mixed, or
only small luteal cells, or absence of luteal cells. Furthermore, in this group
plasma triglycerides were significantly higher compared to other groups,
suggesting possible role of triglycerides in promoting luteinisation. Plasma
androstenedione was also a critical discriminating factor, and was elevated where
large luteal cells were present even as a mixture with small cells suggesting the
large luteal cells to be the likely major ovarian source of this hormone and its 
metabolites. Additionally, the ovaries with large luteal cells compared to those 
containing only small or no luteal cells, had lower primordial follicle reserve
associated with high levels of atresia and luteinisation among growing
non-ovulatory follicles, indicating an accelerated activation, but at the same
time a suboptimal environment for follicular growth.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anireprosci.2015.03.014 
PMID: 25842250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1252. Trends Parasitol. 2015 Jun;31(6):232-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pt.2015.03.003. Epub 2015 
Mar 30.

Plasmodium knowlesi: from severe zoonosis to animal model.

Cox-Singh J(1), Culleton R(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, University of St Andrews, North Haugh, St Andrews, KY16
9TF, UK. Electronic address: jcs26@st-andrews.ac.uk.
(2)Malaria Unit, Department of Pathology, Institute of Tropical Medicine,
Nagasaki University, 1-12-4 Sakamoto, Nagasaki 852-8523, Japan.

Plasmodium knowlesi malaria is a newly described zoonosis in Southeast Asia.
Similarly to Plasmodium falciparum, P. knowlesi can reach high parasitaemia in
the human host and both species cause severe and fatal illness. Interpretation of
host-parasite interactions in studies of P. knowlesi malaria adds a counterpoint 
to studies on P. falciparum. However, there is no model system for testing the
resulting hypotheses on malaria pathophysiology or for developing new
interventions. Plasmodium knowlesi is amenable to genetic manipulation in vitro
and several nonhuman primate species are susceptible to experimental infection.
Here, we make a case for drawing on P. knowlesi as both a human pathogen and an
experimental model to lift the roadblock between malaria research and its
translation into human health benefits.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pt.2015.03.003 
PMID: 25837310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

