

1256. Behav Brain Res. 2015;287:100-8. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.037. Epub 2015 Mar
24.

Cognitive bias, hand preference and welfare of common marmosets.

Gordon DJ(1), Rogers LJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Science and
Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia.
(2)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Science and
Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. Electronic 
address: lrogers@une.edu.au.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have hand preferences for grasping pieces
of food and holding them while eating and these are stable throughout adult life.
We report here that left-handed marmosets have negative cognitive bias compared
to right-handed marmosets. Twelve marmosets were trained to expect a food reward 
from a bowl with a black lid and not from one with a white lid, or vice versa. In
probe tests with ambiguous, grey-lidded bowls a left-handed group (N=7) were less
likely to remove the lid to inspect the bowl than a right-handed group (N=5).
This difference between left- and right-handed marmosets was not dependent on
rate of learning, sex or age. In fact, hand-preference was not associated with
rate of learning the task. Furthermore, retrospective examination of colony
records of 39 marmosets revealed that more aggression was directed towards left- 
than right-handed marmosets. Hence, hand preference, which can be measured
easily, could serve as an indicator of cognitive bias and may signal a need for
particular care in laboratory environments. We explain the results by arguing
that hand preference reflects more frequent (or dominant) use of the opposite
hemisphere and this predisposes individuals to behave differently.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.037 
PMID: 25813746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. Cell Tissue Res. 2015 Sep;361(3):885-98. doi: 10.1007/s00441-015-2164-1. Epub
2015 Mar 26.

Developmental expression patterns of chemokines CXCL11, CXCL12 and their receptor
CXCR7 in testes of common marmoset and human.

Westernströer B(1), Langenstroth D, Kliesch S, Troppmann B, Redmann K, Macdonald 
J, Mitchell R, Wistuba J, Schlatt S, Neuhaus N.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, CeRA, Institute of Reproductive
and Regenerative Biology, Albert-Schweizer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149,
Münster, Germany.

The chemokine receptor CXCR7 interacts with the chemokines CXCL11 and CXCL12.
During development, this ligand receptor system (C-X-C) provokes
cell-type-specific responses in terms of migration, adhesion or ligand
sequestration. It is active in zebrafish and rodents but no data are available
for its presence or function in primate testes. Real-time quantitative polymerase
chain reaction was performed in monkeys to detect CXCL11, CXCL12 and CXCR7. At
the protein level, CXCL12 and CXCR7 were localized in the testes of the marmoset 
(Callitrix jacchus) whereas CXCR7 patterns were determined for various stages in 
human testes. Morphometry and flow cytometry were applied to quantify
CXCR7-positive cells in monkeys. Transcript levels and protein expression of
CXCR7 were detectable throughout testicular development. In both species, CXCR7
protein expression was restricted to premeiotic germ cells. In immature marmoset 
testes, 69.9% ± 9% of the total germ cell population were labelled for CXCR7,
whereas in the adult, 4.7% ± 2.7% were positive for CXCR7. CXCL12 mRNA was
detectable in all developmental stages in marmosets. The CXCL12 protein was
exclusively localized to Sertoli cells. This pattern of CXCL12/CXCR7 indicates
their involvement in regulatory processes that possibly orchestrate the
interaction between undifferentiated germ cells and Sertoli cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-015-2164-1 
PMID: 25810367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

