

1258. Toxicol Sci. 2015 Jul;146(1):43-51. doi: 10.1093/toxsci/kfv069. Epub 2015 Mar 25.

Proteomic Analysis of Cerebellum in Common Marmoset Exposed to Methylmercury.

Shao Y(1), Yamamoto M(2), Figeys D(3), Ning Z(3), Chan HM(4).

Author information: 
(1)*Natural Resources and Environmental Studies Program, University of Northern
British Columbia, Prince George, British Columbia V2N 4Z9, Canada.
(2)Department of Basic Medical Science, National Institute for Minamata Disease, 
Minamata, Kumamoto 867-0008, Japan.
(3)Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario,
Canada K1H 8M5 and.
(4)Department of Biology, Centre for Advanced Research in Environmental Genomics,
University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1N 6N5 laurie.chan@uottawa.ca.

The cerebellum is known as the major target regions of methylmercury (MeHg)
toxicity, but the mechanisms are still not fully understood. We studied the
effects of MeHg exposure in the cerebellum of common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) using a shotgun proteomic approach with liquid chromatography coupled to
mass spectrometry. A total of 1000 common proteins were identified in all
samples, and 102 proteins were significantly differentially expressed in the
cerebellum of common marmoset with orally dosed MeHg (1.5 mg MeHg/kg body weight 
for 2 weeks) compared with those of the control group. Functional enrichment
analysis and pathway predictions showed that the differentially expressed
proteins were involved in carbohydrate derivative metabolic process, ion
transport including synaptic transmission, cell development, and calcium
signaling pathway. Cellular component enrichment analysis showed that they were
mainly distributed in plasma membrane, excitatory synapse, and synaptic membrane.
These results indicate that synaptic transmission and calcium signaling pathways 
are the core functions affected by MeHg. We found a total of 21 novel proteins
affected by MeHg in synaptic transmission and calcium signaling pathways. DLG4:
(PSD95) and MIR-19A/MIR-19B were found to be potential key targets leading to the
multiple effects of MeHg neurotoxicity. These results show the global effects of 
MeHg on cellular functions and pathways leading to neurological deficits in
common marmoset.

Â© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
of Toxicology. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please e-mail:
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/kfv069 
PMID: 25809596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. Primates. 2015 Jul;56(3):235-40. doi: 10.1007/s10329-015-0466-2. Epub 2015 Mar
25.

Noninvasive genotyping of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) by fingernail PCR.

Takabayashi S(1), Katoh H.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Animals Institute, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
1-20-1 Handayama, Higashi-ku, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, 431-3192, Japan,
shuji@hama-med.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that is a useful 
model for medical studies. In this study, we report a convenient, reliable, and
noninvasive procedure to genotype a living common marmoset by using fingernails. 
This method was used to successfully genotype DNA by restriction fragment length 
polymorphism (RFLP) PCR without prior purification, by using the KOD FX PCR
enzyme kit. Additionally, there is no sample contamination from hematopoietic
chimera derived from fused placenta in utero. We compared chimeric levels between
various tissues in females with male littermates using quantitative fluorescent
(QF)-PCR to prepare a reliable DNA source for genetic analyses, such as
genotyping, gene mapping, or genomic sequencing. The chimerism detected appeared 
to be restricted to lymphatic tissues, such as bone marrow, thymus, spleen, lymph
nodes and blood cells. As a result, DNA from fingernails with the quick is the
best DNA source for genetic research in living marmosets.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-015-0466-2 
PMID: 25805040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

