

1260. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2015 May;176(2):399-411. doi: 10.1007/s12010-015-1583-5.
Epub 2015 Mar 26.

Expression of Bioactive Callithrix jacchus Follicle-Stimulating Hormone in Pichia
pastoris.

Kutteyil SS(1), Pathak BR, Dighe RR, Mahale SD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Structural Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji
Street, Parel, Mumbai, 400 012, India.

Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is a New World primate monkey, used as an
animal model in biomedical research. Marmoset-specific follicle-stimulating
hormone (FSH) preparation is required to improve superovulation protocols and to 
develop homologous FSH monitoring assays in these monkeys. In this study, we
document the large-scale expression of recombinant marmoset FSH in methylotropic 
yeast, Pichia pastoris. The recombinant preparation was found to be
immunologically active in Western blotting and radioimmunoassay. The preparation 
displayed receptor binding ability in radioreceptor assay. Based on the receptor 
binding ability, the yield of fermentation was estimated to be 7.2 mg/L.
FSH-induced cAMP assay and estradiol assay revealed that the recombinant hormone 
is able to induce signal transduction. Both immunological and in vitro biological
activity of marmoset FSH was found to be comparable to purified human pituitary
FSH, which served as reference hormone for these assays. Thus, the study suggests
that a Pichia expression system can be used for large-scale expression of
bioactive recombinant marmoset FSH.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-015-1583-5 
PMID: 25805018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1261. Behav Brain Res. 2015;287:120-6. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.025. Epub 2015 Mar
21.

The serotonin 5-HT₁A receptor agonist tandospirone improves executive function in
common marmosets.

Baba S(1), Murai T(2), Nakako T(2), Enomoto T(1), Ono M(3), Shimizu I(1), Ikeda
K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 
Osaka, Japan.
(2)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma,
Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
(3)Innovative Drug Discovery Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 
Osaka, Japan.
(4)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma,
Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan. Electronic address: kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Previous pilot clinical studies have shown that the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor
agonist tandospirone has beneficial effect on cognitive deficits associated with 
schizophrenia. In the present study, we evaluated the cognitive efficacy of
tandospirone, given alone or in combination with the antipsychotic blonanserin,
risperidone or haloperidol, on executive function in marmosets using the object
retrieval with detour (ORD) task. Treatment with tandospirone alone at 20 and 40 
mg/kg increased the number of correct responses in the difficult trial, while
risperidone (0.3mg/kg) and haloperidol (0.3mg/kg) decreased the number of correct
responses in this trial. On the other hand, blonanserin (0.1-0.3mg/kg), an
atypical antipsychotic highly selective for dopamine D2/D3 and serotonin 5-HT2A
receptors, did not affect the number of correct responses in both the easy and
difficult trials. Co-treatment with tandospirone (20mg/kg) and risperidone
(0.1-0.3mg/kg) or haloperidol (0.1-0.3mg/kg) did not improve animals' performance
in the difficult trial. However, co-treatment with tandospirone and blonanserin
(0.1-0.3mg/kg) increased the number of correct responses in the difficult trial. 
In addition, treatment with the dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF-81297 at 1mg/kg 
increased marmosets correct responses in the difficult trial. These results
suggest that tandospirone is a promising candidate for the treatment of cognitive
deficits associated with schizophrenia and that adjunctive treatment with
tandospirone and blonanserin is more appropriate for cognitive deficits than
combination therapy with tandospirone and risperidone or haloperidol. The results
of this study also indicate that the putative mechanism of action of tandospirone
might be related to enhancement of dopamine neurotransmission via activation of
the 5-HT1A receptor.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.025 
PMID: 25804359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

