

1263. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 23;10(3):e0119651. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0119651.
eCollection 2015.

De novo origin of VCY2 from autosome to Y-transposed amplicon.

Cao PR(1), Wang L(1), Jiang YC(2), Yi YS(1), Qu F(1), Liu TC(1), Lv Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Medical College of Hunan Normal University,
Changsha, China.
(2)The State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering and MOE Key Laboratory of
Contemporary Anthropology School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.

The formation of new genes is a primary driving force of evolution in all
organisms. The de novo evolution of new genes from non-protein-coding genomic
regions is emerging as an important additional mechanism for novel gene creation.
Y chromosomes underlie sex determination in mammals and contain genes that are
required for male-specific functions. In this study, a search was undertaken for 
Y chromosome de novo genes derived from non-protein-coding sequences. The Y
chromosome orphan gene variable charge, Y-linked (VCY)2, is an autosome-derived
gene that has sequence similarity to large autosomal fragments but lacks an
autosomal protein-coding homolog. VCY2 locates in the amplicon containing long
DNA fragments that were transposed from autosomes to the Y chromosome before the 
ape-monkey split. We confirmed that VCY2 cannot be encoded by autosomes due to
the presence of multiple disablers that disrupt the open reading frame, such as
the absence of start or stop codons and the presence of premature stop codons.
Similar observations have been made for homologs in the autosomes of the
chimpanzee, gorilla, rhesus macaque, baboon and out-group marmoset, which
suggests that there was a non-protein-coding ancestral VCY2 that was common to
apes and monkeys that predated the transposition event. Furthermore, while
protein-coding orthologs are absent, a putative non-protein-coding VCY2 with
conserved disablers was identified in the rhesus macaque Y chromosome
male-specific region. This finding implies that VCY2 might have not acquired its 
protein-coding ability before the ape-monkey split. VCY2 encodes a
testis-specific expressed protein and is involved in the pathologic process of
male infertility, and the acquisition of this gene might improve male fertility. 
This is the first evidence that de novo genes can be generated from transposed
autosomal non-protein-coding segments, and this evidence provides novel insights 
into the evolutionary history of the Y chromosome.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0119651 
PMCID: PMC4370482
PMID: 25799347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. J Neurosci. 2015 Mar 18;35(11):4657-62. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4509-14.2015.

Emergence of complex wave patterns in primate cerebral cortex.

Townsend RG(1), Solomon SS(2), Chen SC(2), Pietersen AN(2), Martin PR(3), Solomon
SG(4), Gong P(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics, University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia, ARC 
Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney, New
South Wales 2001, Australia.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney,
New South Wales 2001, Australia, Discipline of Physiology, University of Sydney, 
Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.
(3)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney,
New South Wales 2001, Australia, Discipline of Physiology, University of Sydney, 
Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia, Save Sight Institute, University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2001, Australia, and prmartin@sydney.edu.au
p.gong@physics.usyd.edu.au.
(4)Discipline of Physiology, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2006, 
Australia, Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, WC1P
0AH, London, United Kingdom.
(5)School of Physics, University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia, ARC 
Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney, New
South Wales 2001, Australia, prmartin@sydney.edu.au p.gong@physics.usyd.edu.au.

Slow brain rhythms are attributed to near-simultaneous (synchronous) changes in
activity in neuron populations in the brain. Because they are slow and
widespread, synchronous rhythms have not been considered crucial for information 
processing in the waking state. Here we adapted methods from turbulence physics
to analyze δ-band (1-4 Hz) rhythms in local field potential (LFP) activity, in
multielectrode recordings from cerebral cortex in anesthetized marmoset monkeys. 
We found that synchrony contributes only a small fraction (less than one-fourth) 
to the local spatiotemporal structure of δ-band signals. Rather, δ-band activity 
is dominated by propagating plane waves and spatiotemporal structures, which we
call complex waves. Complex waves are manifest at submillimeter spatial scales,
and millisecond-range temporal scales. We show that complex waves can be
characterized by their relation to phase singularities within local nerve cell
networks. We validate the biological relevance of complex waves by showing that
nerve cell spike rates are higher in presence of complex waves than in the
presence of synchrony and that there are nonrandom patterns of evolution from one
type of complex wave to another. We conclude that slow brain rhythms
predominantly indicate spatiotemporally organized activity in local nerve cell
circuits, not synchronous activity within and across brain regions.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/354657-06$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4509-14.2015 
PMCID: PMC4363391
PMID: 25788682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

