

1265. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 18;10(3):e0118424. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118424.
eCollection 2015.

Non-viral generation of marmoset monkey iPS cells by a six-factor-in-one-vector
approach.

Debowski K(1), Warthemann R(1), Lentes J(1), Salinas-Riester G(2), Dressel R(3), 
Langenstroth D(4), Gromoll J(4), Sasaki E(5), Behr R(6).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Microarray and Deep-Sequencing Core Facility, University Medical Center
Göttingen (UMG), Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Cellular and Molecular Immunology, University of Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, University of Münster, Münster,
Germany.
(5)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan, Keio Advanced
Research Center, Keio University, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Göttingen, Germany; DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research),
Partner Site Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Groundbreaking studies showed that differentiated somatic cells of mouse and
human origin could be reverted to a stable pluripotent state by the ectopic
expression of only four proteins. The resulting pluripotent cells, called induced
pluripotent stem (iPS) cells, could be an alternative to embryonic stem cells,
which are under continuous ethical debate. Hence, iPS cell-derived functional
cells such as neurons may become the key for an effective treatment of currently 
incurable degenerative diseases. However, besides the requirement of efficacy
testing of the therapy also its long-term safety needs to be carefully evaluated 
in settings mirroring the clinical situation in an optimal way. In this context, 
we chose the long-lived common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) as a
non-human primate species to generate iPS cells. The marmoset monkey is
frequently used in biomedical research and is gaining more and more preclinical
relevance due to the increasing number of disease models. Here, we describe, to
our knowledge, the first-time generation of marmoset monkey iPS cells from
postnatal skin fibroblasts by non-viral means. We used the transposon-based,
fully reversible piggyback system. We cloned the marmoset monkey reprogramming
factors and established robust and reproducible reprogramming protocols with a
six-factor-in-one-construct approach. We generated six individual iPS cell lines 
and characterized them in comparison with marmoset monkey embryonic stem cells.
The generated iPS cells are morphologically indistinguishable from marmoset ES
cells. The iPS cells are fully reprogrammed as demonstrated by differentiation
assays, pluripotency marker expression and transcriptome analysis. They are
stable for numerous passages (more than 80) and exhibit euploidy. In summary, we 
have established efficient non-viral reprogramming protocols for the derivation
of stable marmoset monkey iPS cells, which can be used to develop and test cell
replacement therapies in preclinical settings.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118424 
PMCID: PMC4365012
PMID: 25785453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. J Med Virol. 2015 Jul;87(7):1077-89. doi: 10.1002/jmv.24167. Epub 2015 Mar 16.

Identification of cytotoxic T lymphocyte epitopes in dengue virus serotype 1.

Duan Z(1), Guo J, Huang X, Liu H, Chen X, Jiang M, Wen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Basic Medical Sciences,
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China; Department of Clinical Laboratory,
The Second Affiliated Hospital & Yuying Children's Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou, China.

Dengue virus (DENV) has a serious and growing impact on global health and the
exact role of DENV-specific CD8(+) T-cells in DENV infection is still uncertain. 
In the present study, SYFPEITHI algorithm was used to screen the amino acid
sequence of Dengue virus serotype 1 (DENV-1) for potential epitopes, and seven
putative HLA-A*1101-restricted and five putative HLA-A*2402-restricted epitopes
conserved in hundreds of DENV-1 strains were synthesized. The binding affinity of
these epitope candidates to corresponding HLA molecules was evaluated using
competitive peptide-binding assay. The immunogenicity and specificity of peptides
were further tested in HLA-A*1101 transgenic mice, HLA-A*2402 transgenic mice and
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients infected with DENV-1.
Percentage inhibition (PI) values calculated in competitive peptide-binding assay
showed that six peptides (E39-47 PTLDIELLK, NS5(505-513) GVEGEGLHK, NS2b(15-23)
SILLSSLLK, NS5(561-569) ALLATSIFK, NS3(99-107) AVEPGKNPK, and NS4b(159-167)
VVYDAKFEK) could bind to HLA-A*1101 molecule with high affinity and five peptides
(NS3472-480 QYIYMGQPL, NS4a40-48 AYRHAMEEL, NS5(880-888) DYMTSMKRF, NS3(548-556) 
SYKVASEGF, and NS3(22-30) IYRILQRGL) have a high affinity for HLA-A*2402
molecule. Enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) results indicated that these
high-affinity peptides were recognized by splenocytes of DENV-1-infected
transgenic mice and high-affinity peptide-immunized transgenic mice displayed
high levels of peptide-specific IFN-γ-secreting cells. In addition, both
peptide-pulsed splenocytes and DENV-1-infected splenic monocytes were efficiently
killed by these peptide-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Finally, except
NS2b(15-23), 10 high-affinity peptides were recognized by PBMCs of patients
infected with DENV-1. These identified epitopes would contribute to the
understanding of the function of DENV-specific CD8(+) T-cells.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.24167 
PMID: 25777343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

