

1266. J Med Virol. 2015 Jul;87(7):1077-89. doi: 10.1002/jmv.24167. Epub 2015 Mar 16.

Identification of cytotoxic T lymphocyte epitopes in dengue virus serotype 1.

Duan Z(1), Guo J, Huang X, Liu H, Chen X, Jiang M, Wen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Basic Medical Sciences,
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China; Department of Clinical Laboratory,
The Second Affiliated Hospital & Yuying Children's Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou, China.

Dengue virus (DENV) has a serious and growing impact on global health and the
exact role of DENV-specific CD8(+) T-cells in DENV infection is still uncertain. 
In the present study, SYFPEITHI algorithm was used to screen the amino acid
sequence of Dengue virus serotype 1 (DENV-1) for potential epitopes, and seven
putative HLA-A*1101-restricted and five putative HLA-A*2402-restricted epitopes
conserved in hundreds of DENV-1 strains were synthesized. The binding affinity of
these epitope candidates to corresponding HLA molecules was evaluated using
competitive peptide-binding assay. The immunogenicity and specificity of peptides
were further tested in HLA-A*1101 transgenic mice, HLA-A*2402 transgenic mice and
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients infected with DENV-1.
Percentage inhibition (PI) values calculated in competitive peptide-binding assay
showed that six peptides (E39-47 PTLDIELLK, NS5(505-513) GVEGEGLHK, NS2b(15-23)
SILLSSLLK, NS5(561-569) ALLATSIFK, NS3(99-107) AVEPGKNPK, and NS4b(159-167)
VVYDAKFEK) could bind to HLA-A*1101 molecule with high affinity and five peptides
(NS3472-480 QYIYMGQPL, NS4a40-48 AYRHAMEEL, NS5(880-888) DYMTSMKRF, NS3(548-556) 
SYKVASEGF, and NS3(22-30) IYRILQRGL) have a high affinity for HLA-A*2402
molecule. Enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) results indicated that these
high-affinity peptides were recognized by splenocytes of DENV-1-infected
transgenic mice and high-affinity peptide-immunized transgenic mice displayed
high levels of peptide-specific IFN-γ-secreting cells. In addition, both
peptide-pulsed splenocytes and DENV-1-infected splenic monocytes were efficiently
killed by these peptide-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Finally, except
NS2b(15-23), 10 high-affinity peptides were recognized by PBMCs of patients
infected with DENV-1. These identified epitopes would contribute to the
understanding of the function of DENV-specific CD8(+) T-cells.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.24167 
PMID: 25777343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Mar 31;112(13):4176-81. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1422440112. Epub 2015 Mar 16.

Regional inactivations of primate ventral prefrontal cortex reveal two distinct
mechanisms underlying negative bias in decision making.

Clarke HF(1), Horst NK(2), Roberts AC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, CB2 3DY, United Kingdom; and Behavioural
and Clinical Neurosciences Institute and hfc23@cam.ac.uk.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neurosciences Institute and Department of Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, CB2 3DY, United Kingdom; and Behavioural
and Clinical Neurosciences Institute and.

Dysregulation of the orbitofrontal and ventrolateral prefrontal cortices is
implicated in anxiety and mood disorders, but the specific contributions of each 
region are unknown, including how they gate the impact of threat on decision
making. To address this, the effects of GABAergic inactivation of these regions
were studied in marmoset monkeys performing an instrumental approach-avoidance
decision-making task that is sensitive to changes in anxiety. Inactivation of
either region induced a negative bias away from punishment that could be
ameliorated with anxiolytic treatment. However, whereas the effects of
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex inactivation on punishment avoidance were seen
immediately, those of orbitofrontal cortex inactivation were delayed and their
expression was dependent upon an amygdala-anterior hippocampal circuit. We
propose that these negative biases result from deficits in attentional control
and punishment prediction, respectively, and that they provide the basis for
understanding how distinct regional prefrontal dysregulation contributes to the
heterogeneity of anxiety disorders with implications for cognitive-behavioral
treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1422440112 
PMCID: PMC4386364
PMID: 25775597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

