

1269. Curr Neurovasc Res. 2015;12(2):128-34.

An experimental model for exudative age-related macular degeneration with
choroidal neovascularization using the common marmoset.

Shimazawa M, Masuda T, Nakamura S, Miwa M, Nakamura K, Hara H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, 1- 25-4 Daigaku-nishi, Gifu 501-1196, Japan.
hidehara@gifu-pu.ac.jp.

This study aimed to establish an experimental exudative age-related macular
degeneration (AMD) model in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), which is a 
small New World monkey. Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) was induced by laser
irradiation on the left eye of each animal under anesthesia. Eight laser spots
were applied around the macular area using the image-guided laser system (532 nm)
attached with Micron III at 650 mW-2,000 mW power. Laser pulse duration and spot 
size were fixed at 100 ms and 50 µm, respectively. At 14 days after laser
irradiation, fluorescein angiograms were observed. At 21 days after laser
irradiation, the fluorescein angiograms were transcardially perfused to the
bilateral common carotid arteries with 4% paraformaldehyde for the transverse
section or with fluorescein-conjugated dextran (MW = 2,000 kDa) for the retinal
pigment epithelia (RPE)-choroidal flatmount. At 14 days after laser irradiation, 
late hyperfluorescence and leakage within or beyond the lesion borders were
observed in a laser power-dependent manner. In the RPE-choroidal flatmount, the
mean size of the CNV lesions at 1,500 mW was 1.34 ± 0.49 × 10(5) µm(2) (Mean ±
S.D., n = 29), and the coefficient of variation for each CNV area was 36.5% (n = 
29). In conclusion, we succeeded in producing an experimental exudative type of
AMD model in the common marmoset. This model may be useful in elucidating the
pathophysiological mechanism and screening of new candidates for exudative AMD.

DOI: 10.2174/1567202612666150311105814 
PMID: 25760220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Sep 1;523(13):1948-66. doi: 10.1002/cne.23772. Epub 2015 Jul 
14.

Analysis of the lateral geniculate nucleus in dichromatic and trichromatic
marmosets.

FitzGibbon T(1), Eriköz B(2), Grünert U(1)(3)(4), Martin PR(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2006,
Australia.
(2)Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, University of Melbourne, Vic.,
3053, Australia.
(3)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia.
(4)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, 2000, Australia.

Marmosets are diurnal New World monkeys that show sex-linked cone photopigment
polymorphism, whereby all males and some females are dichromats ("red-green
colorblind"), but most females show trichromatic color vision. Here we asked
whether trichromats express chromatic-specific circuitry in the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN). The volume of parvocellular (P), magnocellular (M), and
koniocellular (K) layers was calculated in Nissl-stained sections from the LGN of
adult marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; 10 trichromatic females; 2 dichromatic
females; and 13 dichromatic males). Retinal ganglion cell axon terminals within
the P and K layers were reconstructed and measured following anterograde tracer
(dextran) injections. We show that there is little difference in LGN layer volume
with respect to age, weight, or sex of the animals, or between dichromatic and
trichromatic phenotypes. The morphology of retinal ganglion cell terminals was
largely indistinguishable on comparing dichromats and trichromats, and likewise
on comparing terminals representing peripheral or foveal retina. We conclude that
the LGN circuits we studied are largely independent of red-green color vision
phenotype and visual field location.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23772 
PMID: 25753496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

