

127. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Aug 26;31(10):4765-4780. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhab121.

Differential Contribution of Anterior and Posterior Midcingulate Subregions to
Distal and Proximal Threat Reactivity in Marmosets.

Rahman SS(1)(2), Mulvihill K(1), Wood CM(1)(2), Quah SKL(1)(2), Horst NK(3)(2),
Clarke HF(1)(2), Cockcroft GJ(1)(2), Santangelo AM(1)(2), Roberts AC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

The midcingulate cortex (MCC) is associated with cognition and emotion
regulation. Structural and correlational functional evidence suggests that rather
than being homogenous, the MCC may have dissociable functions that can be mapped 
onto distinct subregions. In this study, we use the marmoset monkey to causally
investigate the contributions of two proposed subregions of the MCC: the anterior
and posterior midcingulate cortices (aMCC and pMCC) to behavioral and
cardiovascular correlates of threat processing relevant to anxiety disorders.
Transient inactivation of the aMCC decreased anxiety-like responses to a
postencounter distal threat, namely an unfamiliar human intruder, while
inactivation of the pMCC showed a mild but opposing effect. Furthermore, although
inactivation of neither MCC subregions had any effect on basal cardiovascular
activity, aMCC inactivation blunted the expression of both cardiovascular and
behavioral conditioned responses to a predictable proximal threat (a rubber
snake) during the extinction in a Pavlovian conditioning task, with pMCC
inactivation having again an opposing effect, but primarily on the behavioral
response. These findings suggest that the MCC is indeed functionally
heterogeneous with regards to its role in threat processing, with aMCC providing 
a marked facilitative contribution to the expression of the emotional response to
both proximal and distal threat.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhab121 
PMCID: PMC8408452
PMID: 34076234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2021 May 28;30(2):e026020. doi:
10.1590/S1984-29612021012. eCollection 2021.

Platynosomum illiciens (Trematoda: Dicrocoeliidae) in a hybrid marmoset
(Callithrix sp.) in the Municipality of Seropédica, RJ, Brazil - Case report.

Assis RCP(1), Campos DR(1), Borges DA(1), Avelar BR(1), Pereira JASM(2), Matias
CAR(2), Lopes CWG(3), McIntosh D(3), Scott FB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Quimioterapia Experimental em Parasitologia Veterinária,
Departamento de Parasitologia Animal, Instituto de Veterinária - IV, Universidade
Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro - UFRRJ, Seropédica, Campus Seropédica, RJ,
Brasil.
(2)Departamento de Epidemiologia e Saúde Pública, Instituto de Veterinária - IV, 
Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro -UFRRJ, Seropédica, Seropédica, RJ, 
Brasil.
(3)Departamento de Parasitologia Animal, Instituto de Veterinária - IV,
Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro - UFRRJ, Seropédica, Seropédica, RJ,
Brasil.

Platynosomum illiciens is a liver trematode encountered infecting mainly felids
although it has also been reported in birds and in additional mammalian species, 
including non-human primates. The current study reports a natural P. illiciens
infection primate of the genus Callithrix. The diagnosis was made using a
combination of copro-parasitological techniques, morphological evaluation of
adult specimens recovered from the liver during necropsy, and molecular analyses.
Eggs were brown in color, oval, operculated, and contained a miracidium. Adult
specimens recovered during necropsy were measured and showed dimensions
compatible with P. illiciens. Molecular characterization of the trematode
involved amplification by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), in combination with
nucleotide sequencing, of an approximately 900 base pairs fragment corresponding 
to 18S-ITS1-5.8S ribosomal DNA. Sequenced amplicons showed 100% nucleotide
identity with sequences deposited in the GenBank database as derived from
specimens of P. illiciens recovered from cats in Malaysia and Brazil. It was
concluded that the morphological and molecular analyses presented herein,
confirmed the identification of the trematode recovered as P. illiciens.

DOI: 10.1590/S1984-29612021012 
PMID: 34076054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

