

1272. Res Vet Sci. 2015 Apr;99:17-22. doi: 10.1016/j.rvsc.2015.02.005. Epub 2015 Feb
11.

Purification and partial characterization of α1-proteinase inhibitor in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Parambeth JC(1), Suchodolski JS(2), Steiner JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College
Station, Texas 77843-4474. Electronic address: JCyrus@cvm.tamu.edu.
(2)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College
Station, Texas 77843-4474.

Fecal alpha1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-PI) concentration has been to diagnose
enteric protein loss in dogs and cats. Chronic lymphocytic enteritis is commonly 
seen in the marmoset (Callithrix jaccus) and is characterized by hypoalbuminemia.
As a prelude to immunoassay development for detecting enteric protein loss,
marmoset serum α1-PI was purified using immunoaffinity chromatography and ceramic
hydroxyapatite chromatography. Partial characterization was performed by reducing
gel electrophoresis and enzyme inhibitory assays. Protein identity was confirmed 
with peptide mass fingerprinting and N-terminal amino acid sequencing. Molecular 
mass, relative molecular mass, and isoelectric point for marmoset α1-PI were
54 kDa, 51,677, and 4.8-5.4, respectively. Trypsin, chymotrypsin, and elastase
inhibitory activity were observed. N-terminal amino acid sequence for marmoset
α1-PI was EDPQGDAAQKMDTSHH. In conclusion, marmoset α1-PI was successfully
purified from serum with an overall yield of 12% using a rapid and efficient
method. Purified marmoset α1-PI has characteristics similar to those of α1-PI
reported for other species.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rvsc.2015.02.005 
PMCID: PMC4378525
PMID: 25745866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1273. Sci Rep. 2015 Mar 6;5:8878. doi: 10.1038/srep08878.

Common marmosets show social plasticity and group-level similarity in
personality.

Koski SE(1), Burkart JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zürich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

The social environment influences animal personality on evolutionary and
immediate time scales. However, studies of animal personality rarely assess the
effects of the social environment, particularly in species that live in stable
groups with individualized relationships. We assessed personality experimentally 
in 17 individuals of the common marmoset, living in four groups. We found their
personality to be considerably modified by the social environment. Marmosets
exhibited relatively high plasticity in their behaviour, and showed
'group-personality', i.e. group-level similarity in the personality traits. In
exploratory behaviour this was maintained only in the social environment but not 
when individuals were tested alone, suggesting that exploration tendency is
subjected to social facilitation. Boldness, in contrast, showed higher
consistency across the social and solitary conditions, and the group-level
similarity in trait scores was sustained also outside of the immediate social
environment. The 'group-personality' was not due to genetic relatedness,
supporting that it was produced by social effects. We hypothesize that
'group-personality' may be adaptive for highly cooperative animals through
facilitating cooperation among individuals with similar behavioural tendency.

DOI: 10.1038/srep08878 
PMCID: PMC5155412
PMID: 25743581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

