

1275. J Gen Virol. 2015 Jul;96(Pt 7):1636-50. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.000108. Epub 2015 Mar 
3.

Genetic analysis of members of the species Oropouche virus and identification of 
a novel M segment sequence.

Tilston-Lunel NL(1), Hughes J(2), Acrani GO(3), da Silva DE(4), Azevedo RS(5),
Rodrigues SG(5), Vasconcelos PF(5), Nunes MR(4), Elliott RM(2).

Author information: 
(1)1MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, 464 Bearsden Road,
Glasgow G61 1QH, Scotland, UK 2Biomedical Sciences Research Complex, School of
Biology, University of St Andrews, St Andrews KY16 9ST, Scotland, UK.
(2)1MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, 464 Bearsden Road,
Glasgow G61 1QH, Scotland, UK.
(3)1MRC-University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, 464 Bearsden Road,
Glasgow G61 1QH, Scotland, UK 3Department of Cell and Molecular Biology,
University of Sao Paulo School of Medicine, 3900, Av Bandeirantes, Ribeirão
Preto, SP 14049-900, Brazil.
(4)4Center for Technological Innovation, Instituto Evandro Chagas, Ananindeua,
Brazil.
(5)5Department of Arbovirology and Hemorrhagic Fevers, Instituto Evandro Chagas, 
Ananindeua, Brazil.

Oropouche virus (OROV) is a public health threat in South America, and in
particular in northern Brazil, causing frequent outbreaks of febrile illness.
Using a combination of deep sequencing and Sanger sequencing approaches, we
determined the complete genome sequences of eight clinical isolates that were
obtained from patient sera during an Oropouche fever outbreak in Amapa state,
northern Brazil, in 2009. We also report the complete genome sequences of two
OROV reassortants isolatd from two marmosets in Minas Gerais state, south-east
Brazil, in 2012 that contained a novel M genome segment. Interestingly, all 10
isolates possessed a 947 nt S segment that lacked 11 residues in the S-segment 3'
UTR compared with the recently redetermined Brazilian prototype OROV strain
BeAn19991. OROV maybe circulating more widely in Brazil and in the non-human
primate population than previously appreciated, and the identification of yet
another reassortant highlights the importance of bunyavirus surveillance in South
America.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.000108 
PMCID: PMC4635451
PMID: 25735305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. Theriogenology. 2015 May;83(8):1304-9.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.01.017. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Development of a modified artificial insemination technique combining penile
vibration stimulation and the swim-up method in the common marmoset.

Takabayashi S(1), Suzuki Y(2), Katoh H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan. Electronic address: shuji@hama-med.ac.jp.
(2)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan.
(3)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan; Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Genetics, Central
Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is used as a New World monkey species in
biomedical studies because of its small body size and good reproduction in
captivity. A modified artificial insemination technique was developed in this
species to encourage breeding of lines carrying interesting genes and traits.
Fresh semen was collected by penile vibratory stimulation. Medium containing
highly motile sperm was inseminated into the uterus using a catheter. Seven
females were inseminated using freshly prepared sperm from different males every 
day for 3 days including the expected ovulation day. As a result, four females
conceived, and three females delivered six offspring in total (two singletons and
one quadruplet). The paternity of the newborns was determined using
microsatellite markers to accurately pinpoint the timing of insemination and
ovulation. It is expected that our artificial insemination protocol can be
effectively used to establish marmoset lines and genetically manage marmoset
colonies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.01.017 
PMID: 25732321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

