

1279. Dev Growth Differ. 2015 Apr;57(3):200-8. doi: 10.1111/dgd.12194. Epub 2015 Feb
19.

Periostin, a neurite outgrowth-promoting factor, is expressed at high levels in
the primate cerebral cortex.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S, Oka M, Tanaka M, Taoka M, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Japan.

Periostin (POSTN or osteoblast specific factor) is an extracellular matrix
protein originally identified as a protein highly expressed in osteoblasts.
Recently, periostin has been reported to function in axon regeneration and
neuroprotection. In the present study, we focused on periostin function in
cortical evolution. We performed a comparative gene expression analysis of
periostin between rodents (mice) and primates (marmosets and macaques). Periostin
was expressed at higher levels in the primate cerebral cortex compared to the
mouse cerebral cortex. Furthermore, we performed overexpression experiments of
periostin in vivo and in vitro. Periostin exhibited neurite outgrowth activity in
cortical neurons. These results suggested the possibility that prolonged and
increased periostin expression in the primate cerebral cortex enhances the
cortical plasticity of the mammalian cerebral cortex.

© 2015 Japanese Society of Developmental Biologists.

DOI: 10.1111/dgd.12194 
PMID: 25703431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1280. Curr Biol. 2015 Feb 16;25(4):R155-7. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.12.053.

Blindsight: post-natal potential of a transient pulvinar pathway.

Kaas JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson Hall, PMB 407817,
2301 Vanderbilt Place, Nashville, TN 37240-7817, USA. Electronic address:
jon.h.kaas@vanderbilt.edu.

Comment on
    Curr Biol. 2015 Feb 16;25(4):424-34.

More vision is preserved after removal of primary visual cortex in infant than
adult primates. A recent study suggests that this is due to the preservation of a
retina-to-pulvinar-to-cortex pathway that normally regresses during development.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.12.053 
PMID: 25689912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

