

128. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2021 May 28;30(2):e026020. doi:
10.1590/S1984-29612021012. eCollection 2021.

Platynosomum illiciens (Trematoda: Dicrocoeliidae) in a hybrid marmoset
(Callithrix sp.) in the Municipality of Seropédica, RJ, Brazil - Case report.

Assis RCP(1), Campos DR(1), Borges DA(1), Avelar BR(1), Pereira JASM(2), Matias
CAR(2), Lopes CWG(3), McIntosh D(3), Scott FB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Quimioterapia Experimental em Parasitologia Veterinária,
Departamento de Parasitologia Animal, Instituto de Veterinária - IV, Universidade
Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro - UFRRJ, Seropédica, Campus Seropédica, RJ,
Brasil.
(2)Departamento de Epidemiologia e Saúde Pública, Instituto de Veterinária - IV, 
Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro -UFRRJ, Seropédica, Seropédica, RJ, 
Brasil.
(3)Departamento de Parasitologia Animal, Instituto de Veterinária - IV,
Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro - UFRRJ, Seropédica, Seropédica, RJ,
Brasil.

Platynosomum illiciens is a liver trematode encountered infecting mainly felids
although it has also been reported in birds and in additional mammalian species, 
including non-human primates. The current study reports a natural P. illiciens
infection primate of the genus Callithrix. The diagnosis was made using a
combination of copro-parasitological techniques, morphological evaluation of
adult specimens recovered from the liver during necropsy, and molecular analyses.
Eggs were brown in color, oval, operculated, and contained a miracidium. Adult
specimens recovered during necropsy were measured and showed dimensions
compatible with P. illiciens. Molecular characterization of the trematode
involved amplification by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), in combination with
nucleotide sequencing, of an approximately 900 base pairs fragment corresponding 
to 18S-ITS1-5.8S ribosomal DNA. Sequenced amplicons showed 100% nucleotide
identity with sequences deposited in the GenBank database as derived from
specimens of P. illiciens recovered from cats in Malaysia and Brazil. It was
concluded that the morphological and molecular analyses presented herein,
confirmed the identification of the trematode recovered as P. illiciens.

DOI: 10.1590/S1984-29612021012 
PMID: 34076054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Cells. 2021 May 24;10(6). pii: 1306. doi: 10.3390/cells10061306.

Age-Related Alterations in the Testicular Proteome of a Non-Human Primate.

Stöckl JB(1), Schmid N(2), Flenkenthaler F(1), Drummer C(3)(4), Behr R(3)(4),
Mayerhofer A(2), Arnold GJ(1), Fröhlich T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Functional Genome Analysis LAFUGA, Gene Center, LMU München,
81377 München, Germany.
(2)Biomedical Center (BMC), Anatomy III-Cell Biology, Medical Faculty, LMU
München, 82152 Martinsried, Germany.
(3)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(4)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen,
37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Aging of human testis and associated cellular changes is difficult to assess.
Therefore, we used a translational, non-human primate model to get insights into 
underlying cellular and biochemical processes. Using proteomics and
immunohistochemistry, we analyzed testicular tissue of young (age 2 to 3) and old
(age 10 to 12) common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Using a mass
spectrometry-based proteomics approach, we identified 63,124 peptides, which
could be assigned to 5924 proteins. Among them, we found proteins specific for
germ cells and somatic cells, such as Leydig and Sertoli cells. Quantitative
analysis showed 31 differentially abundant proteins, of which 29 proteins were
more abundant in older animals. An increased abundance of anti-proliferative
proteins, among them CDKN2A, indicate reduced cell proliferation in old testes.
Additionally, an increased abundance of several small leucine rich repeat
proteoglycans and other extracellular matrix proteins was observed, which may be 
related to impaired cell migration and fibrotic events. Furthermore, an increased
abundance of proteins with inhibitory roles in smooth muscle cell contraction
like CNN1 indicates functional alterations in testicular peritubular cells and
may mirror a reduced capacity of these cells to contract in old testes.

DOI: 10.3390/cells10061306 
PMCID: PMC8225046
PMID: 34074003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

