

1281. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:20-46. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.01.008. Epub 2015 Feb
13.

The marmoset monkey as a model for visual neuroscience.

Mitchell JF(1), Leopold DA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Brain and Cognitive Sciences Department, Meliora Hall, University of
Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627, USA. Electronic address:
jmitchell@bcs.rochester.edu.
(2)Section on Cognitive Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA; Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National
Institute of Mental Health, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD
20892, USA. Electronic address: leopoldd@mail.nih.gov.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has been valuable as a primate model in 
biomedical research. Interest in this species has grown recently, in part due to 
the successful demonstration of transgenic marmosets. Here we examine the
prospects of the marmoset model for visual neuroscience research, adopting a
comparative framework to place the marmoset within a broader evolutionary
context. The marmoset's small brain bears most of the organizational features of 
other primates, and its smooth surface offers practical advantages over the
macaque for areal mapping, laminar electrode penetration, and two-photon and
optical imaging. Behaviorally, marmosets are more limited at performing
regimented psychophysical tasks, but do readily accept the head restraint that is
necessary for accurate eye tracking and neurophysiology, and can perform simple
discriminations. Their natural gaze behavior closely resembles that of other
primates, with a tendency to focus on objects of social interest including faces.
Their immaturity at birth and routine twinning also makes them ideal for the
study of postnatal visual development. These experimental factors, together with 
the theoretical advantages inherent in comparing anatomy, physiology, and
behavior across related species, make the marmoset an excellent model for visual 
neuroscience.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.01.008 
PMCID: PMC4408257
PMID: 25683292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:110-5. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.01.011. Epub 2015 Feb
12.

Prospects for genetically modified non-human primate models, including the common
marmoset.

Sasaki E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Research Center, Keio University, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku, Tokyo
160-8582, Japan; Center of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 210-0821, Japan.
Electronic address: esasaki@ciea.or.jp.

Genetically modified mice have contributed much to studies in the life sciences. 
In some research fields, however, mouse models are insufficient for analyzing the
molecular mechanisms of pathology or as disease models. Often, genetically
modified non-human primate (NHP) models are desired, as they are more similar to 
human physiology, morphology, and anatomy. Recent progress in studies of the
reproductive biology in NHPs has enabled the introduction of exogenous genes into
NHP genomes or the alteration of endogenous NHP genes. This review summarizes
recent progress in the production of genetically modified NHPs, including the
common marmoset, and future perspectives for realizing genetically modified NHP
models for use in life sciences research.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.01.011 
PMID: 25683291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

