

1282. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:110-5. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.01.011. Epub 2015 Feb
12.

Prospects for genetically modified non-human primate models, including the common
marmoset.

Sasaki E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Advanced Research Center, Keio University, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku, Tokyo
160-8582, Japan; Center of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 210-0821, Japan.
Electronic address: esasaki@ciea.or.jp.

Genetically modified mice have contributed much to studies in the life sciences. 
In some research fields, however, mouse models are insufficient for analyzing the
molecular mechanisms of pathology or as disease models. Often, genetically
modified non-human primate (NHP) models are desired, as they are more similar to 
human physiology, morphology, and anatomy. Recent progress in studies of the
reproductive biology in NHPs has enabled the introduction of exogenous genes into
NHP genomes or the alteration of endogenous NHP genes. This review summarizes
recent progress in the production of genetically modified NHPs, including the
common marmoset, and future perspectives for realizing genetically modified NHP
models for use in life sciences research.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2015.01.011 
PMID: 25683291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. Brain Nerve. 2015 Feb;67(2):193-8. doi: 10.11477/mf.1416200111.

[Morphological and functional diversity of retinal ganglion cells in the common
marmoset].

[Article in Japanese]

Koizumi A(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institutes of Natural Sciences.

Retinal ganglion cells are projecting neurons that send visual information from
the retina to the brain. They generate different patterns of action potentials in
response to different kinds of visual information. In the retinas of mammals such
as mice or rabbits, there are functionally and morphologically diverse retinal
ganglion cells. However, in the primate retina, midget and parasol cells are
believed to be dominant, and show less diversity. In this study, we performed
organotypic culture of retinas and acute gene transfection of GFPs by gene-gun.
We found more diverse retinal ganglion cells, including directional selective
ganglion cells, than we expected, even in the retinas of primates such as common 
marmosets. Further, we found a third pathway from the retina to the brain via the
thalamus, in addition to the magnocellular and parvocellular pathways.

DOI: 10.11477/mf.1416200111 
PMID: 25681364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

