

1285. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 6;10(2):e0114025. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114025.
eCollection 2015.

Patch size, functional isolation, visibility and matrix permeability influences
neotropical primate occurrence within highly fragmented landscapes.

da Silva LG(1), Ribeiro MC(2), Hasui É(1), da Costa CA(1), da Cunha RG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Natural Sciences, Federal University of Alfenas (UNIFAL-MG),
Alfenas, Brazil.
(2)Spatial Ecology and Conservation lab (LEEC), Department of Ecology, São Paulo 
State University (UNESP), Rio Claro, Brazil.

Forest fragmentation and habitat loss are among the major current extinction
causes. Remaining fragments are mostly small, isolated and showing poor quality. 
Being primarily arboreal, Neotropical primates are generally sensitive to
fragmentation effects. Furthermore, primates are involved in complex ecological
process. Thus, landscape changes that negatively interfere with primate
population dynamic affect the structure, composition, and ultimately the
viability of the whole community. We evaluated if fragment size, isolation and
visibility and matrix permeability are important for explaining the occurrence of
three Neotropical primate species. Employing playback, we verified the presence
of Callicebus nigrifrons, Callithrix aurita and Sapajus nigritus at 45 forest
fragments around the municipality of Alfenas, Brazil. We classified the landscape
and evaluated the metrics through predictive models of occurrence. We selected
the best models through Akaike Selection Criterion. Aiming at validating our
results, we applied the plausible models to another region (20 fragments at the
neighboring municipality of Poço Fundo, Brazil). Twelve models were plausible,
and three were validated, two for Sapajus nigritus (Area and Area+Visibility) and
one for Callicebus nigrifrons (Area+Matrix). Our results reinforce the
contribution of fragment size to maintain biodiversity within highly degraded
habitats. At the same time, they stress the importance of including novel,
biologically relevant metrics in landscape studies, such as visibility and matrix
permeability, which can provide invaluable help for similar studies in the future
and on conservation practices in the long run.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114025 
PMCID: PMC4319959
PMID: 25658108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1286. J Vet Med Sci. 2014 Dec;76(12):1667-70. doi: 10.1292/jvms.14-0374. Epub 2014 Sep 
11.

Herpes simplex virus type 1 infection in two pet marmosets in Japan.

Imura K(1), Chambers JK, Uchida K, Nomura S, Suzuki S, Nakayama H, Miwa Y.

Author information: 
(1)Miwa Exotic Animal Hospital, 1-25-5, Komagome, Toshima-ku, Tokyo 170-0003,
Japan.

An 8-month-old common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was presented with tic-like
symptoms, and a 2-year-old pigmy marmoset (Callithrix pygmaea) was presented with
dyspnea and hypersalivation. Both monkeys died within a few days, and necropsies 
were performed. Histopathological examinations revealed ulcerative stomatitis
with epithelial cell swelling and eosinophilic intranuclear inclusion bodies in
the oral epithelium of both cases. In the central and peripheral nervous systems,
neuronal cell degeneration with intranuclear inclusion bodies was observed.
Immunohistochemical examination using anti-herpes simplex virus type 1 antibody
revealed virus antigens in both cases. Both animals had been kept as pets with
limited exposure to the ambient environment except via their owners. Therefore,
herpes simplex virus type-1 was probably acquired from close contact with their
owners.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.14-0374 
PMCID: PMC4300388
PMID: 25649955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

