

1287. Anim Cogn. 2015 May;18(3):701-12. doi: 10.1007/s10071-015-0837-5. Epub 2015 Jan
31.

High emotional reactivity toward an experimenter affects participation, but not
performance, in cognitive tests with common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Schubiger MN(1), Wüstholz FL, Wunder A, Burkart JM.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057, Zurich, Switzerland, mnschubiger@gmail.com.

When testing primates with cognitive tasks, it is usually not considered that
subjects differ markedly in terms of emotional reactivity toward the
experimenter, which potentially affects a subject's cognitive performance. We
addressed this issue in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a monkey species
in which males tend to show stronger emotional reactivity in testing situations, 
whereas females have been reported to outperform males in cognitive tasks. In a
two-phase experiment, we first quantified the emotional reactivity of 14 subjects
toward four different experimenters performing a standardized behavioral action
sequence and then assessed whether and how it affected the subjects'
participation and performance in a subsequent object permanence task. A test
session was terminated if a subject refused to make a choice in four consecutive 
trials. Highly emotionally aroused individuals, particularly males, were less
likely to participate in the cognitive task and completed fewer trials. However, 
whenever they did participate and were attentive to the task, their performance
was not affected. Our results suggest that differences in emotional reactivity
toward an experimenter have no major impact on cognitive performance if strict
criteria are applied on when to abandon a test session and if performance is
corrected for attention to the test procedure. Furthermore, they suggest that the
reported sex differences in cognitive performance in marmosets may be owing to
motivational and attentional factors, rather than a difference in cognitive
ability per se.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-015-0837-5 
PMID: 25636914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1288. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2015 Mar 1;148:188-94. doi:
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2015.01.007. Epub 2015 Jan 15.

Temporal and dose-dependent differences in simultaneously-induced cocaine
hypervigilance and conditioned-place-preference in marmoset monkeys.

Borges AC(1), Duarte RB(2), Nogueira L(1), Barros M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil. Electronic address:
mbarros@unb.br.

BACKGROUND: Although repeated exposure to cocaine can induce hypervigilance and
conditioned-place-preference (CPP) in nonhuman primates (NHPs), more detailed
analyses are warranted since the outcome can be influenced by different factors.
METHODS: We evaluated in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata): (1) the onset
time-course and dose-dependent (3 or 7mg/kg; i.p.) profile of their
hypervigilance and CPP response to repeated cocaine exposure; (2) whether these
behavioral measures are still detectable after a 15-day no-drug period; (3) the
relationship between their hypervigilance and CPP responses; and (4) if these
behavioral changes correlate with pre- and post-drug behaviors (i.e., vigilance, 
locomotion, exploration), and/or first response to cocaine.
RESULTS: Hypervigilance had a slow-onset, was only effective with the 7mg/kg dose
of cocaine, lacked long-term conditioned effects and was not related to the
initial cocaine response or pre-drug behaviors, regardless of the dose tested.
CPP was promptly induced with the 3 and 7mg/kg doses, and had a dose-dependent
long-term effect and negative correlation with pre-drug locomotion and
exploration. Hypervigilance and CPP were not significantly correlated.
CONCLUSIONS: Although hypervigilance and CPP were induced, they had distinct
temporal and dose-dependent profiles, and were not equally co-expressed in the
same marmoset. Also, in NHPs, pre-drug locomotion and exploration were predictive
of the low-dose CPP response.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2015.01.007 
PMID: 25630962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

