

1290. Biol Reprod. 2015 Mar;92(3):73. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.114.119495. Epub 2015 Jan
21.

Dexrazoxane abrogates acute doxorubicin toxicity in marmoset ovary.

Salih SM(1), Ringelstetter AK(2), Elsarrag MZ(2), Abbott DH(3), Roti EC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Divisions of Reproductive
Endocrinology and Infertility and Reproductive Sciences, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin sanasalih5@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Divisions of Reproductive
Endocrinology and Infertility and Reproductive Sciences, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Divisions of Reproductive
Endocrinology and Infertility and Reproductive Sciences, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.

Preservation of ovarian function following chemotherapy for nonovarian cancers is
a formidable challenge. For prepubescent girls, the only option to prevent
chemotherapy damage to the ovary is ovarian tissue cryopreservation, an
experimental procedure requiring invasive surgeries to harvest and reimplant
tissue, which carries the risk of cancer reintroduction. Drugs that block the
primary mechanism of chemotherapy insult, such as dexrazoxane (Dexra) in the
context of anthracycline chemotherapy, provide a novel approach for ovarian
protection and have the potential to overcome current limitations to
oncofertility treatment. Dexra is a catalytic topoisomerase 2 inhibitor that
protects the mouse ovary from acute doxorubicin (DXR) chemotherapy toxicity in
vitro by preventing DXR-induced DNA damage and subsequent gammaH2AX activation.
To translate acute DXR ovarian insult and Dexra protection from mouse to nonhuman
primate, freshly obtained marmoset ovarian tissue was cultured in vitro and
treated with vehicle or 20 μM Dexra 1 h prior to 50 nM DXR. Cultured ovarian
tissue was harvested at 2, 4, or 24 h post-DXR treatment. Dexra prevented
DXR-induced DNA double-strand breaks as quantified by the neutral comet assay.
DXR treatment for 24 h increased gammaH2AX phosphorylation, specifically
increasing the number of foci-positive granulosa cells in antral follicles, while
Dexra pretreatment inhibited DXR-induced gammaH2AX phosphorylation foci
formation. Additionally, Dexra pretreatment trended toward attenuating
DXR-induced AKT1 phosphorylation and caspase-9 activation as assayed by Western
blots of ovarian tissue lysates. The combined findings suggest Dexra prevents
primary DXR-induced DNA damage, the subsequent cellular response to DNA damage,
and may diminish early apoptotic signaling in marmoset ovarian tissue. This study
provides initial translation of Dexra protection against acute ovarian DXR
toxicity from mice to marmoset monkey tissue.

© 2015 by the Society for the Study of Reproduction, Inc.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.114.119495 
PMCID: PMC4367967
PMID: 25609833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. J Neurosci. 2015 Jan 21;35(3):1160-72. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2659-14.2015.

Functional mapping of face-selective regions in the extrastriate visual cortex of
the marmoset.

Hung CC(1), Yen CC(2), Ciuchta JL(2), Papoti D(2), Bock NA(3), Leopold DA(4),
Silva AC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, Section on Cognitive
Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of Neuropsychology, National Institute of
Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.
(3)Medical Physics and Applied Radiation Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada, and.
(4)Section on Cognitive Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National
Institute of Mental Health, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Eye Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
20182.
(5)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, SilvaA@ninds.nih.gov.

Comment in
    Trends Cogn Sci. 2015 May;19(5):240-1.

The cerebral cortex of humans and macaques has specialized regions for processing
faces and other visual stimulus categories. It is unknown whether a similar
functional organization exists in New World monkeys, such as the common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus), a species of growing interest as a primate model in
neuroscience. To address this question, we measured selective neural responses in
the brain of four awake marmosets trained to fix their gaze upon images of faces,
bodies, objects, and control patterns. In two of the subjects, we measured high
gamma-range field potentials from electrocorticography arrays implanted over a
large portion of the occipital and inferotemporal cortex. In the other two
subjects, we measured BOLD fMRI responses across the entire brain. Both
techniques revealed robust, regionally specific patterns of category-selective
neural responses. We report that at least six face-selective patches mark the
occipitotemporal pathway of the marmoset, with the most anterior patches showing 
the strongest preference for faces over other stimuli. The similar appearance of 
these patches to previous findings in macaques and humans, including their
apparent arrangement in two parallel pathways, suggests that core elements of the
face processing network were present in the common anthropoid primate ancestor
living ∼35 million years ago. The findings also identify the marmoset as a viable
animal model system for studying specialized neural mechanisms related to
high-level social visual perception in humans.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/351160-13$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2659-14.2015 
PMCID: PMC4300322
PMID: 25609630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

