

1297. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:99-109. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.011. Epub 2015
Jan 7.

The marmoset as a model for the study of primate parental behavior.

Saito A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive and Behavioral Science, Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
casaito@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Parental behavior is important for the development of mammalian offspring.
Research on the mechanisms underlying parental behavior, however, has been
largely restricted to rodent models. As a consequence, although research on
parent-infant relationships has been conducted using macaque monkeys for more
than half a century, little is known about the neural mechanisms and brain
regions associated with such behaviors in primates. This article reviews parental
behavior and its endocrinological mechanisms in marmosets and tamarins, both
cooperative breeders in the callitrichid family, and compares these findings with
studies of macaque monkeys. The paper examines the similarities and differences
between marmosets and humans, and suggests the possibility that marmosets can be 
a model for future studies of the neural underpinnings and endocrinology
underlying human parental behavior.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.011 
PMID: 25575642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1298. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:158-63. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.007. Epub 2015
Jan 6.

The olfactory bulb and the number of its glomeruli in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Moriya-Ito K(1), Tanaka I(2), Umitsu Y(2), Ichikawa M(3), Tokuno H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
moriya-kk@igakuken.or.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Center for Basic Technology Research, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical 
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan.

The olfactory system has been well studied in mammals such as mice and rats.
However, few studies have focused on characterizing this system in diurnal
primates that rely on their sense of smell to a lesser extent due to their
ecological environment. In the present study, we determined the histological
organization of the olfactory bulb in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
We then constructed 3-dimensional models of the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb, 
and estimated the number of glomeruli. Olfactory glomeruli are the functional
units of olfactory processing, and have been investigated in detail using mice.
There are approximately 1800 glomeruli in a mouse hemibulb, and olfactory sensory
neurons expressing one selected olfactory receptor converge onto one or two
glomeruli. Because mice have about 1000 olfactory receptor genes, it is proposed 
that the number of glomeruli in mammals is nearly double that of olfactory
receptor genes. The common marmoset carries only about 400 intact olfactory
receptor genes. The present study revealed that the number of glomeruli in a
marmoset hemibulb was approximately 1500-1800. This result suggests that the
number of glomeruli is not positively correlated with the number of intact
olfactory receptor genes in mammals.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.007 
PMID: 25573718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

