

1298. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:158-63. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.007. Epub 2015
Jan 6.

The olfactory bulb and the number of its glomeruli in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Moriya-Ito K(1), Tanaka I(2), Umitsu Y(2), Ichikawa M(3), Tokuno H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
moriya-kk@igakuken.or.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Center for Basic Technology Research, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical 
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan.

The olfactory system has been well studied in mammals such as mice and rats.
However, few studies have focused on characterizing this system in diurnal
primates that rely on their sense of smell to a lesser extent due to their
ecological environment. In the present study, we determined the histological
organization of the olfactory bulb in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
We then constructed 3-dimensional models of the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb, 
and estimated the number of glomeruli. Olfactory glomeruli are the functional
units of olfactory processing, and have been investigated in detail using mice.
There are approximately 1800 glomeruli in a mouse hemibulb, and olfactory sensory
neurons expressing one selected olfactory receptor converge onto one or two
glomeruli. Because mice have about 1000 olfactory receptor genes, it is proposed 
that the number of glomeruli in mammals is nearly double that of olfactory
receptor genes. The common marmoset carries only about 400 intact olfactory
receptor genes. The present study revealed that the number of glomeruli in a
marmoset hemibulb was approximately 1500-1800. This result suggests that the
number of glomeruli is not positively correlated with the number of intact
olfactory receptor genes in mammals.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.007 
PMID: 25573718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1299. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:82-90. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.006. Epub 2015 Jan
5.

Positron emission tomography imaging of the social brain of common marmosets.

Yokoyama C(1), Onoe H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Bio-Function Imaging Team, RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies (CLST), 
6-7-3 Minatojima-minamimachi, Chuo-ku, Kobe 650-0047, Japan. Electronic address: 
chihiro@riken.jp.
(2)Bio-Function Imaging Team, RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies (CLST), 
6-7-3 Minatojima-minamimachi, Chuo-ku, Kobe 650-0047, Japan.

Positron emission tomography (PET) is a molecular imaging modality that can
visualize functional neurochemical processes throughout the brain in the living
condition, and is useful in bridging the gap between experimental animals and
humans. We applied PET to common marmosets to study the brain mechanisms
underlying social behaviors. Common marmosets are known for their high level of
sociality within a cooperative breeding system, which is rare among non-human
primates, and they could represent valuable animals for studying human-like
social behaviors. PET successfully revealed a brain-molecular relationship
underlying social traits and a functional brain network associated with social
situations in common marmosets. Marmoset PET appears likely to prove useful in
understanding the neurobiological mechanisms underpinning social behaviors in
both physiological and pathological conditions, and has potential for simulating 
psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.006 
PMID: 25573717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

