

1300. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:128-35. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.014. Epub 2015
Jan 5.

Mini-atlas of the marmoset brain.

Senoo A(1), Tokuno H(2), Watson C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Tokyo University of Agriculture 
and Technology, Koganei, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan; Laboratory of Brain Structure,
Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Setagaya, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Setagaya, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
tokuno-hr@igakuken.or.jp.
(3)Curtin University, Perth, WA 6845, Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia,
Sydney, NSW 2031, Australia; University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052,
Australia.

A mini-atlas of the brain is designed to help students and young researchers who 
are not familiar with neuroanatomy. In the mini-atlas, a limited number of
important nuclei and fiber tracts are shown on a small number of brain sections
from posterior end to the anterior end of the brain. The first mini-atlas was
introduced for the rat brain (Watson et al., 2010). Here we present a mini-atlas 
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jaccus), which is one of representative
experimental primates for modern neuroscience. We further discuss the differences
of brain structures between rodents and primates.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.014 
PMID: 25573716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. Am J Primatol. 2015 May;77(5):527-34. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22372. Epub 2015 Jan 8.

Identification of MHC I class genes in two Platyrrhini species.

Cao YH(1), Fan JW, Li AX, Liu HF, Li LR, Zhang CL, Zeng L, Sun ZZ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Center of the Academy of Military Medical Science, Beijing, 
China; College of Life Sciences of Tarim University, Alaer, China.

The major histocompatibility complex is a diverse gene family that plays a
crucial role in the adaptive immune system. In humans, the MHC class I genes
consist of the classical loci of HLA-A, -B, and -C, and the nonclassical loci
HLA-E, -F, and -G. In Platyrrhini species, few MHC class I genes have been
described so far and were classified as MHC-E, MHC-F, and MHC-G, with MHC-G
possibly representing a classical MHC class I locus while there were arguments
about the existence of the MHC-B locus in Platyrrhini. In this study, MHC class I
genes were identified in eight common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and two
brown-headed spider monkeys (Ateles fusciceps). For common marmosets, 401 cDNA
sequences were sequenced and 18 alleles were detected, including 14 Caja-G
alleles and 4 Caja-B alleles. Five to eleven Caja-G alleles and one to three
Caja-B alleles were detected in each animal. For brown-headed spider monkeys, 102
cDNA sequences were analyzed, and 9 new alleles were identified, including 5
Atfu-G and 4 Atfu-B alleles. Two or three Atfu-G and two Atfu-B alleles were
obtained for each of animal. In phylogenetic analyses, the MHC-G and -B alleles
from the two species and other Platyrrhini species show locus-specific clusters
with bootstrap values of 86% and 50%. The results of pairwise sequence
comparisons and an excess of non-synonymous nucleotide substitutions in the PBR
region are consistent with the suggestion that Caja-G and Atfu-G may be classical
MHC class I loci in the Platyrrhini species… But it appears that MHC-B locus of
the two Platyrrhini species shares features with both classical and nonclasical
MHC class I loci. Our results are an important addition to the limited MHC
immunogenetic information available for the Platyrrhini species.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22372 
PMID: 25573376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

