

1301. Am J Primatol. 2015 May;77(5):527-34. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22372. Epub 2015 Jan 8.

Identification of MHC I class genes in two Platyrrhini species.

Cao YH(1), Fan JW, Li AX, Liu HF, Li LR, Zhang CL, Zeng L, Sun ZZ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Center of the Academy of Military Medical Science, Beijing, 
China; College of Life Sciences of Tarim University, Alaer, China.

The major histocompatibility complex is a diverse gene family that plays a
crucial role in the adaptive immune system. In humans, the MHC class I genes
consist of the classical loci of HLA-A, -B, and -C, and the nonclassical loci
HLA-E, -F, and -G. In Platyrrhini species, few MHC class I genes have been
described so far and were classified as MHC-E, MHC-F, and MHC-G, with MHC-G
possibly representing a classical MHC class I locus while there were arguments
about the existence of the MHC-B locus in Platyrrhini. In this study, MHC class I
genes were identified in eight common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and two
brown-headed spider monkeys (Ateles fusciceps). For common marmosets, 401 cDNA
sequences were sequenced and 18 alleles were detected, including 14 Caja-G
alleles and 4 Caja-B alleles. Five to eleven Caja-G alleles and one to three
Caja-B alleles were detected in each animal. For brown-headed spider monkeys, 102
cDNA sequences were analyzed, and 9 new alleles were identified, including 5
Atfu-G and 4 Atfu-B alleles. Two or three Atfu-G and two Atfu-B alleles were
obtained for each of animal. In phylogenetic analyses, the MHC-G and -B alleles
from the two species and other Platyrrhini species show locus-specific clusters
with bootstrap values of 86% and 50%. The results of pairwise sequence
comparisons and an excess of non-synonymous nucleotide substitutions in the PBR
region are consistent with the suggestion that Caja-G and Atfu-G may be classical
MHC class I loci in the Platyrrhini species… But it appears that MHC-B locus of
the two Platyrrhini species shares features with both classical and nonclasical
MHC class I loci. Our results are an important addition to the limited MHC
immunogenetic information available for the Platyrrhini species.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22372 
PMID: 25573376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1302. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Jun 1;523(8):1222-47. doi: 10.1002/cne.23734. Epub 2015 Mar
10.

Cortical and thalamic projections to cytoarchitectural areas 6Va and 8C of the
marmoset monkey: connectionally distinct subdivisions of the lateral premotor
cortex.

Burman KJ(1), Bakola S, Richardson KE, Yu HH, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.

We studied the afferent connections of two cytoarchitectural subdivisions of the 
caudolateral frontal cortex, areas 6Va and 8C, in marmoset monkeys. These areas
received connections from the same set of thalamic nuclei, including main inputs 
from the ventral lateral and ventral anterior complexes, but differed in their
patterns of corticocortical connections. Areas 8C and 6Va had reciprocal
interconnections, and received similar proportions of afferents from premotor
areas 6M and 6DC, and from the prefrontal cortex. However, area 8C received
stronger inputs from frontal areas that have been implicated in oculomotor
functions, whereas area 6Va received stronger projections from the primary motor 
area. Somatosensory projections to area 6Va were generally stronger than those to
area 8C, and originated from several areas; in contrast, only the second
somatosensory area (S2) sent major inputs to area 8C. Finally, although both 6Va 
and 8C received major inputs from the rostral posterior parietal cortex (putative
homologs of areas PE, PF, and PFG), area 8C also received a variety of smaller
connections from posterior midline, caudal posterior parietal, and extrastriate
areas. Statistical analyses revealed that the pattern of connections of area 8C
is more akin to that characterizing a premotor area, rather than a prefrontal
area. We conclude that cytoarchitectural area 6Va in the marmoset is similar to
ventral premotor areas identified in other simian primates, and that area 8C
corresponds to a specialized subdivision of the caudal premotor complex where
visual information for the guidance of movements is likely to be emphasized.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23734 
PMID: 25556940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

