

1302. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Jun 1;523(8):1222-47. doi: 10.1002/cne.23734. Epub 2015 Mar
10.

Cortical and thalamic projections to cytoarchitectural areas 6Va and 8C of the
marmoset monkey: connectionally distinct subdivisions of the lateral premotor
cortex.

Burman KJ(1), Bakola S, Richardson KE, Yu HH, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.

We studied the afferent connections of two cytoarchitectural subdivisions of the 
caudolateral frontal cortex, areas 6Va and 8C, in marmoset monkeys. These areas
received connections from the same set of thalamic nuclei, including main inputs 
from the ventral lateral and ventral anterior complexes, but differed in their
patterns of corticocortical connections. Areas 8C and 6Va had reciprocal
interconnections, and received similar proportions of afferents from premotor
areas 6M and 6DC, and from the prefrontal cortex. However, area 8C received
stronger inputs from frontal areas that have been implicated in oculomotor
functions, whereas area 6Va received stronger projections from the primary motor 
area. Somatosensory projections to area 6Va were generally stronger than those to
area 8C, and originated from several areas; in contrast, only the second
somatosensory area (S2) sent major inputs to area 8C. Finally, although both 6Va 
and 8C received major inputs from the rostral posterior parietal cortex (putative
homologs of areas PE, PF, and PFG), area 8C also received a variety of smaller
connections from posterior midline, caudal posterior parietal, and extrastriate
areas. Statistical analyses revealed that the pattern of connections of area 8C
is more akin to that characterizing a premotor area, rather than a prefrontal
area. We conclude that cytoarchitectural area 6Va in the marmoset is similar to
ventral premotor areas identified in other simian primates, and that area 8C
corresponds to a specialized subdivision of the caudal premotor complex where
visual information for the guidance of movements is likely to be emphasized.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23734 
PMID: 25556940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1303. Lab Anim. 2015 Jul;49(3):241-50. doi: 10.1177/0023677214565843. Epub 2014 Dec 31.

Non-invasive blood pressure measurement: values, problems and applicability in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Mietsch M(1), Einspanier A(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Leipzig, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of
Physiological Chemistry, Leipzig, Germany.
(2)University of Leipzig, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of
Physiological Chemistry, Leipzig, Germany einspanier@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, C. j.) is an established primate model
in biomedical research and for human-related diseases. Monitoring of
cardiovascular parameters including blood pressure (BP) is important for the
health surveillance of these experimental animals and the quantification of
diseases or pharmaceutical substances influencing BP. Measurement guidelines for 
C. j. do not exist yet; therefore, the present study was carried out to establish
a practicable protocol based on recommendations of the American College of
Veterinary Internal Medicine (ACVIM). Furthermore, BP data of 49 marmosets
(13.8-202.4 months of age) were obtained via high-definition oscillometry to
further knowledge of physiological parameters and gender-related differences in
this primate. The thighs proved to be the most suitable measurement localization,
since systolic values were less variable (left 4.03 ± 2.90%, right 5.96 ± 2.77%) 
compared with the tail (12.7 ± 6.96%). BP values were similar in the morning and 
in the afternoon (P > 0.05). Data were highly reproducible within and between
several sessions on three consecutive days (P > 0.05) as well as over the course 
of 20 months (P > 0.05). Furthermore, the measurement time for females was
significantly shorter than for males (5:14 ± 1:59 min versus 6:50 ± 1:58 min, P =
0.007). Measurement recommendations for the common marmoset were successfully
established. Standardized values enabled a reliable comparison of BP parameters, 
e.g. for cardiovascular, toxicological or metabolic research.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0023677214565843 
PMID: 25552521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

