

1306. J Exp Psychol Anim Learn Cogn. 2014 Jul;40(3):317-26. doi: 10.1037/xan0000027.
Epub 2014 May 5.

Transposition and its generalization in common marmosets.

Yamazaki Y(1), Saiki M(2), Inada M(2), Iriki A(2), Watanabe S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute.

Whether animals use relational cues in transposition tests has long been
considered a controversial issue. In the present study, we examined whether
common marmosets could generalize relational responses to untrained stimulus
pairs and further apply these generalizations to unknown shapes. The subjects
were trained to perform simple discrimination tasks using a pair of stimuli. The 
stimuli differed in size, and the subjects were required to select the larger or 
smaller of the 2 sizes, depending on the given contingencies. After experiencing 
several reversals, the subjects were examined using 2 different tests:
transposition and shape generalization. In the transposition test trials, in
which squares of different sizes than those used in the training trials were
presented, the subjects selected the stimulus based on the relative size of the
stimulus. In the shape generalization tests, sets of 5 novel shapes with the same
relative sizes were presented with the training stimuli. The subjects'
performance indicated successful transposition to the novel stimulus pairs, and
further analysis showed that transposition was more likely to occur when the test
stimuli shared physical features, such as the outer length and the number of line
segments, with the trained stimuli. Thus, the present study demonstrated the
robust ability of transposition in common marmosets based on relative size, both 
with and without common shape features, and offered a possible method for
specifying the critical stimulus features through which transposition can be more
readily observed.

DOI: 10.1037/xan0000027 
PMID: 25545979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2015 Apr 3;58:71-80. doi:
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2014.11.008. Epub 2014 Dec 24.

High fat diet decreases beneficial effects of estrogen on serotonin-related gene 
expression in marmosets.

Bethea CL(1), Reddy AP(2), Flowers M(3), Shapiro RA(3), Colman RJ(4), Abbott
DH(5), Levine JE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate
Research Center, Beaverton, OR 97006, USA; Division of Neuroscience, Oregon
National Primate Research Center, Beaverton, OR 97006, USA; Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR
97201, USA. Electronic address: betheac@ohsu.edu.
(2)Division of Reproductive and Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate
Research Center, Beaverton, OR 97006, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA;
Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA; Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison, WI, USA.

The administration of estradiol-17β (E) to animal models after loss of ovarian
steroid production has many beneficial effects on neural functions, particularly 
in the serotonin system in nonhuman primates (NHPs). E also has anorexic effects,
although the mechanism of action is not well defined. In the US, obesity has
reached epidemic proportions, and blame is partially directed at the Western
style diet, which is high in fat and sugar. This study examined the interaction
of E and diet in surgically menopausal nonhuman primates with a 2×2 block design.
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; n=4/group) were placed on control-low fat diet
(LFD; 14%kcal from fat) or high fat diet (HFD; 28%kcal from fat) 1month prior to 
ovariectomy (Ovx). Empty (placebo) or E-filled Silastic capsules were implanted
immediately following Ovx surgery. Treatments extended 6months. The established
groups were: placebo+LFD, E+LFD, placebo+HFD, or E+HFD. At necropsy, the brain
was flushed with saline and harvested. The midbrain was dissected and a small
block containing the dorsal raphe nucleus was processed for qRT-PCR using
Evagreen (Biotinum). Genes previously found to impact serotonin neural functions 
were examined. Results were compared with 2-way ANOVA followed by Bonferroni
post-hoc tests or Cohen's D analysis. There was a significant effect of treatment
on tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2) across the groups (p=0.019). E stimulated TPH2
expression and HFD prevented E-stimulated TPH2 expression (p<0.01). Treatment
differentially affected monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) across the groups (p=0.05). E
increased MAO-B with LFD, and this stimulatory effect was prevented by HFD
(p<0.05). There was a significant difference between treatments in corticotrophin
releasing factor-receptor 2 (CRF-R2) expression (p=0.012). E increased CRF-R2 and
this stimulatory effect was blocked by HFD (p<0.01). Regardless of diet, E
increased Fev mRNA (p=0.028) and decreased CRF-receptor 1 (CRF-R1) mRNA (p=0.04).
HFD suppressed urocortin 1 (UCN1; stresscopin) expression (p=0.045) but E
treatment had no effect. Monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) was different due to
treatment across the groups (p=0.028). MAO-A was increased in the E+HFD group
(p<0.01) whereas previous studies showed E suppressed MAO-A in macaques. The
serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT), the serotonin 1A receptor (5HT1A),
estrogen receptor beta (ERβ) and progestin receptor (PR) expressions were not
different between groups. Estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) was undetectable. In
summary, the data indicate that important actions of hormone therapy in the
serotonin system may be lost in the context of a HFD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2014.11.008 
PMCID: PMC4339406
PMID: 25542371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

