

1309. Emerg Infect Dis. 2015 Jan;21(1):48-57. doi: 10.3201/eid2101.140766.

Protocol for metagenomic virus detection in clinical specimens.

Kohl C, Brinkmann A, Dabrowski PW, Radonić A, Nitsche A, Kurth A.

Sixty percent of emerging viruses have a zoonotic origin, making transmission
from animals a major threat to public health. Prompt identification and analysis 
of these pathogens are indispensable to taking action toward prevention and
protection of the affected population. We quantifiably compared classical and
modern approaches of virus purification and enrichment in theory and experiments.
Eventually, we established an unbiased protocol for detection of known and novel 
emerging viruses from organ tissues (tissue-based universal virus detection for
viral metagenomics [TUViD-VM]). The final TUViD-VM protocol was extensively
validated by using real-time PCR and next-generation sequencing. We could
increase the amount of detectable virus nucleic acids and improved the detection 
of viruses <75,000-fold compared with other tested approaches. This TUViD-VM
protocol can be used in metagenomic and virome studies to increase the likelihood
of detecting viruses from any biological source.

DOI: 10.3201/eid2101.140766 
PMCID: PMC4285256
PMID: 25532973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. Gene. 2015 Feb 25;557(2):182-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.12.033. Epub 2014 Dec
16.

Relationship between amino acid usage and amino acid evolution in primates.

Liu H(1), Xie Z(1), Tan S(1), Zhang X(2), Yang S(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China. Electronic address:
xiaohuizhang@nju.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China. Electronic address:
sihaiyang@nju.edu.cn.

Amino acid usage varies from species to species. A previous study has found a
universal trend in amino acid gain and loss in many taxa and a one-way model of
amino acid evolution in which the number of new amino acids increases as the
number of old amino acids decreases was proposed. Later studies showed that this 
pattern of amino acid gain and loss is likely to be compatible with the neutral
theory. The present work aimed to further study this problem by investigating the
evolutionary patterns of amino acids in 8 primates (the nucleotide and protein
alignments are available online http://gattaca.nju.edu.cn/pub_data.html). First, 
the number of amino acids gained and lost was calculated and the evolution trend 
of each amino acid was inferred. These values were found to be closely related to
the usage of each amino acid. Then we analyzed the mutational trend of amino acid
substitution in human using SNPs, this trend is highly correlated with fixation
trend only with greater variance. Finally, the trends in the evolution of 20
amino acids were evaluated in human on different time scales, and the increasing 
rate of 5 significantly increasing amino acids was found to decrease as a
function of time elapsed since divergence, and the dS/dN ratio also found to
increase as a function of time elapsed since divergence. These results suggested 
that the observed amino acid substitution pattern is influenced by mutation and
purifying selection. In conclusion, the present study shows that usage of amino
acids is an important factor capable of influencing the observed pattern of amino
acid evolution, and also presented evidences suggesting that the observed
universal trend of amino acid gain and loss is compatible with neutral evolution.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.12.033 
PMID: 25527119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

