

1310. Gene. 2015 Feb 25;557(2):182-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.12.033. Epub 2014 Dec
16.

Relationship between amino acid usage and amino acid evolution in primates.

Liu H(1), Xie Z(1), Tan S(1), Zhang X(2), Yang S(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China. Electronic address:
xiaohuizhang@nju.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences,
Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China. Electronic address:
sihaiyang@nju.edu.cn.

Amino acid usage varies from species to species. A previous study has found a
universal trend in amino acid gain and loss in many taxa and a one-way model of
amino acid evolution in which the number of new amino acids increases as the
number of old amino acids decreases was proposed. Later studies showed that this 
pattern of amino acid gain and loss is likely to be compatible with the neutral
theory. The present work aimed to further study this problem by investigating the
evolutionary patterns of amino acids in 8 primates (the nucleotide and protein
alignments are available online http://gattaca.nju.edu.cn/pub_data.html). First, 
the number of amino acids gained and lost was calculated and the evolution trend 
of each amino acid was inferred. These values were found to be closely related to
the usage of each amino acid. Then we analyzed the mutational trend of amino acid
substitution in human using SNPs, this trend is highly correlated with fixation
trend only with greater variance. Finally, the trends in the evolution of 20
amino acids were evaluated in human on different time scales, and the increasing 
rate of 5 significantly increasing amino acids was found to decrease as a
function of time elapsed since divergence, and the dS/dN ratio also found to
increase as a function of time elapsed since divergence. These results suggested 
that the observed amino acid substitution pattern is influenced by mutation and
purifying selection. In conclusion, the present study shows that usage of amino
acids is an important factor capable of influencing the observed pattern of amino
acid evolution, and also presented evidences suggesting that the observed
universal trend of amino acid gain and loss is compatible with neutral evolution.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.12.033 
PMID: 25527119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1311. Amino Acids. 2015 Mar;47(3):589-601. doi: 10.1007/s00726-014-1893-x. Epub 2014
Dec 21.

Metabolome-wide association study of phenylalanine in plasma of common marmosets.

Go YM(1), Walker DI, Soltow QA, Uppal K, Wachtman LM, Strobel FH, Pennell K,
Promislow DE, Jones DP.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical
Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, Emory University, 205 Whitehead Research
Center, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA.

Little systematic knowledge exists concerning the impacts of cumulative lifelong 
exposure, termed the exposome, on requirements for nutrients. Phenylalanine (Phe)
is an essential dietary amino acid with an aromatic ring structure similar to
endogenous metabolites, dietary compounds and environmental agents. Excess plasma
Phe in genetic disease or nutritional deficiency of Phe has adverse health
consequences. In principle, structurally similar chemicals interfering with Phe
utilization could alter Phe requirement at an individual level. As a strategy to 
identify components of the exposome that could interfere with Phe utilization, we
tested for metabolites correlating with Phe concentration in plasma of a
non-human primate species, common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The results of 
tests for more than 5,000 chemical features detected by high-resolution
metabolomics showed 17 positive correlations with Phe metabolites and other amino
acids. Positive and negative correlations were also observed for 33 other
chemicals, which included matches to endogenous metabolites and dietary,
microbial and environmental chemicals in database searches. Chemical similarity
analysis showed many of the matches had high structural similarity to Phe.
Together, the results show that chemicals in marmoset plasma could impact Phe
utilization. Such chemicals could contribute to early lifecycle developmental
disorders when neurological development is vulnerable to Phe levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00726-014-1893-x 
PMCID: PMC4329081
PMID: 25526869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

