

1311. Amino Acids. 2015 Mar;47(3):589-601. doi: 10.1007/s00726-014-1893-x. Epub 2014
Dec 21.

Metabolome-wide association study of phenylalanine in plasma of common marmosets.

Go YM(1), Walker DI, Soltow QA, Uppal K, Wachtman LM, Strobel FH, Pennell K,
Promislow DE, Jones DP.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical
Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, Emory University, 205 Whitehead Research
Center, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA.

Little systematic knowledge exists concerning the impacts of cumulative lifelong 
exposure, termed the exposome, on requirements for nutrients. Phenylalanine (Phe)
is an essential dietary amino acid with an aromatic ring structure similar to
endogenous metabolites, dietary compounds and environmental agents. Excess plasma
Phe in genetic disease or nutritional deficiency of Phe has adverse health
consequences. In principle, structurally similar chemicals interfering with Phe
utilization could alter Phe requirement at an individual level. As a strategy to 
identify components of the exposome that could interfere with Phe utilization, we
tested for metabolites correlating with Phe concentration in plasma of a
non-human primate species, common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The results of 
tests for more than 5,000 chemical features detected by high-resolution
metabolomics showed 17 positive correlations with Phe metabolites and other amino
acids. Positive and negative correlations were also observed for 33 other
chemicals, which included matches to endogenous metabolites and dietary,
microbial and environmental chemicals in database searches. Chemical similarity
analysis showed many of the matches had high structural similarity to Phe.
Together, the results show that chemicals in marmoset plasma could impact Phe
utilization. Such chemicals could contribute to early lifecycle developmental
disorders when neurological development is vulnerable to Phe levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00726-014-1893-x 
PMCID: PMC4329081
PMID: 25526869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1312. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2015 Apr;156(4):565-76. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22683. Epub 2014
Dec 19.

Angular momentum and arboreal stability in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Chadwell BA(1), Young JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH, 44272; Skeletal Biology Research Focus Area, NEOMED,
Rootstown, OH, 44272.

Despite the importance that concepts of arboreal stability have in theories of
primate locomotor evolution, we currently lack measures of balance performance
during primate locomotion. We provide the first quantitative data on locomotor
stability in an arboreal primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
predicting that primates should maximize arboreal stability by minimizing
side-to-side angular momentum about the support (i.e., Lsup ). If net Lsup
becomes excessive, the animal will be unable to arrest its angular movement and
will fall. Using a novel, highly integrative experimental procedure we directly
measured whole-body Lsup in two adult marmosets moving along narrow (2.5 cm
diameter) and broad (5 cm diameter) poles. Marmosets showed a strong preference
for asymmetrical gaits (e.g., gallops and bounds) over symmetrical gaits (e.g.,
walks and runs), with asymmetrical gaits representing >90% of all strides.
Movement on the narrow support was associated with an increase in more "grounded"
gaits (i.e., lacking an aerial phase) and a more even distribution of torque
production between the fore- and hind limbs. These adjustments in gait dynamics
significantly reduced net Lsup on the narrow support relative to the broad
support. Despite their lack of a well-developed grasping apparatus, marmosets
proved adept at producing muscular "grasping" torques about the support,
particularly with the hind limbs. We contend that asymmetrical gaits permit
small-bodied arboreal mammals, including primates, to expand "effective grasp" by
gripping the substrate between left and right limbs of a girdle. This model of
arboreal stability may hold important implications for understanding primate
locomotor evolution.

Â© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22683 
PMID: 25523444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

