

1314. Nature. 2014 Dec 11;516(7530):170. doi: 10.1038/516170e.

Medical research: Several fields still need primates.

Roberts A(1), Robbins T(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge, UK.

Comment on
    Nature. 2014 Oct 30;514(7524):567.

DOI: 10.1038/516170e 
PMID: 25503225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 15;747:160-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.11.038. Epub
2014 Dec 11.

The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, istradefylline enhances the
anti-parkinsonian activity of low doses of dopamine agonists in MPTP-treated
common marmosets.

Uchida S(1), Soshiroda K(2), Okita E(2), Kawai-Uchida M(2), Mori A(3), Jenner
P(4), Kanda T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Central Nervous System Research Laboratories, Central Nervous System Research 
& Development Unit, Research & Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.,
1188 Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.
(2)Research Core Function Laboratories, Research Functions Unit, Research &
Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.
(3)Strategic Product Portfolio Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Tokyo,
100-8185, Japan.
(4)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King׳s College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(5)Central Nervous System Research Laboratories, Central Nervous System Research 
& Development Unit, Research & Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.,
1188 Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan. Electronic
address: tomoyuki.kanda@kyowa-kirin.co.jp.

The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, istradefylline, enhances anti-parkinsonian
activity in patients with advanced Parkinson׳s disease (PD) already treated with 
combinations of L-DOPA and dopamine agonist drugs but who are still exhibiting
prolonged 'OFF' periods. In contrast, the effects of istradefylline on motor
function when administered in combination with low dose dopamine agonist therapy 
in early PD are unknown. We now investigate whether istradefylline administered
with a threshold dose of either the non-ergot dopamine agonist, ropinirole or the
ergot dopamine agonist, pergolide enhances anti-parkinsonian activity in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmoset. Both
ropinirole (0.01-0.1mg/kg p.o.) and pergolide (0.003-0.1mg/kg p.o.) administered 
alone produced dose dependent increases in locomotor activity, a reduction in
motor disability. Threshold doses of ropinirole (0.025-0.075mg/kg p.o.) and
pergolide (0.01-0.075mg/kg p.o.) were then selected that in individual animals
caused a small but non-significant anti-parkinsonian effect. Administration of
istradefylline (10mg/kg p.o.) alone resulted in a decrease in motor disability
and increase in 'ON' time but dyskinesia was not observed. Combined
administration of pergolide or ropinirole with istradefylline resulted in an
increase in the reversal of motor disability and increase in 'ON' time compared
to that produced by either treatment alone but dyskinesia was still not observed.
These results show that istradefylline is effective in improving motor function
when combined with low dose dopamine agonist treatment. In early PD, this may
avoid dose escalation or allow a reduction in dopamine agonist dosage without a
loss of efficacy and prevent dopaminergic side-effects from becoming treatment
limiting.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.11.038 
PMID: 25499739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

