

1315. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Jan 15;747:160-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.11.038. Epub
2014 Dec 11.

The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, istradefylline enhances the
anti-parkinsonian activity of low doses of dopamine agonists in MPTP-treated
common marmosets.

Uchida S(1), Soshiroda K(2), Okita E(2), Kawai-Uchida M(2), Mori A(3), Jenner
P(4), Kanda T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Central Nervous System Research Laboratories, Central Nervous System Research 
& Development Unit, Research & Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.,
1188 Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.
(2)Research Core Function Laboratories, Research Functions Unit, Research &
Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.
(3)Strategic Product Portfolio Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Tokyo,
100-8185, Japan.
(4)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King׳s College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(5)Central Nervous System Research Laboratories, Central Nervous System Research 
& Development Unit, Research & Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.,
1188 Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan. Electronic
address: tomoyuki.kanda@kyowa-kirin.co.jp.

The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, istradefylline, enhances anti-parkinsonian
activity in patients with advanced Parkinson׳s disease (PD) already treated with 
combinations of L-DOPA and dopamine agonist drugs but who are still exhibiting
prolonged 'OFF' periods. In contrast, the effects of istradefylline on motor
function when administered in combination with low dose dopamine agonist therapy 
in early PD are unknown. We now investigate whether istradefylline administered
with a threshold dose of either the non-ergot dopamine agonist, ropinirole or the
ergot dopamine agonist, pergolide enhances anti-parkinsonian activity in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmoset. Both
ropinirole (0.01-0.1mg/kg p.o.) and pergolide (0.003-0.1mg/kg p.o.) administered 
alone produced dose dependent increases in locomotor activity, a reduction in
motor disability. Threshold doses of ropinirole (0.025-0.075mg/kg p.o.) and
pergolide (0.01-0.075mg/kg p.o.) were then selected that in individual animals
caused a small but non-significant anti-parkinsonian effect. Administration of
istradefylline (10mg/kg p.o.) alone resulted in a decrease in motor disability
and increase in 'ON' time but dyskinesia was not observed. Combined
administration of pergolide or ropinirole with istradefylline resulted in an
increase in the reversal of motor disability and increase in 'ON' time compared
to that produced by either treatment alone but dyskinesia was still not observed.
These results show that istradefylline is effective in improving motor function
when combined with low dose dopamine agonist treatment. In early PD, this may
avoid dose escalation or allow a reduction in dopamine agonist dosage without a
loss of efficacy and prevent dopaminergic side-effects from becoming treatment
limiting.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.11.038 
PMID: 25499739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1316. Parasit Vectors. 2014 Dec 12;7:579. doi: 10.1186/s13071-014-0579-2.

Strongyloides stercoralis infection in marmosets: replication of complicated and 
uncomplicated human disease and parasite biology.

Mati VL(1), Raso P(2), de Melo AL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology, ICB, UFMG, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
vitormati@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Department of Pathological Anatomy and Legal Medicine, FM, UFMG, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil. pedroraso29@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Parasitology, ICB, UFMG, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
aldemelo@icb.ufmg.br.

BACKGROUND: Strongyloides stercoralis can undergo an alternative autoinfective
life cycle in the host, which, in some individuals can lead to a lethal
infection. However, due to a number of factors, such as, the majority of those
infected are from low-income backgrounds and the limitation in experimental
models for studying human S. stercoralis, strongyloidiasis remains neglected.
Improved knowledge of animal models that are susceptible to this parasite is
needed in order to investigate the immunological mechanisms involved during
infection and in particular to further understand the natural history of the
autoinfective cycle.
METHODS: Callithrix penicillata were inoculated subcutaneously with 100 (n = 2), 
300 (n = 4) or 500 (n = 9) third-stage infective larvae (L3i) of S. stercoralis
of human origin. Three marmosets received smaller inocula (i.e., one received 100
and two received 300 L3i) to ensure a greater capacity to withstand the infection
after immunosuppression, which was triggered by administration of dexamethasone
during early patency. Qualitative faecal analyses began at 7 days post-infection 
(DPI), and semi-quantitative tests were also performed for the
dexamethasone-treated primates and the three matched controls. During the
necropsies, specimens of S. stercoralis were recovered and tissue fragments were 
processed for histopathology.
RESULTS: The mean prepatency and patency periods were 16.1 ± 3.0 and 161.1 ± 72.2
DPI, respectively. The marmosets typically tolerated the infection well, but
immunosuppressed individuals exhibited higher numbers of larvae in the faeces and
progressive clinical deterioration with late disseminated infection. In these
cases, the number of females recovered was significantly higher than the number
of inoculated L3i. Large quantities of larvae were observed migrating through the
host tissues, and histopathology revealed pulmonary and intestinal injuries
consistent with those observed in human strongyloidiasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Both complicated and uncomplicated strongyloidiasis occur in C.
penicillata that is described as a susceptible small non-human primate model for 
S. stercoralis. This host permits the maintenance of a human strain of the
parasite in the laboratory and can be useful for experimental investigations of
strongyloidiasis. In parallel, we discuss data related to the autoinfective cycle
that provides new insights into the biology of S. stercoralis.

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-014-0579-2 
PMCID: PMC4287166
PMID: 25499310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

