

1316. Parasit Vectors. 2014 Dec 12;7:579. doi: 10.1186/s13071-014-0579-2.

Strongyloides stercoralis infection in marmosets: replication of complicated and 
uncomplicated human disease and parasite biology.

Mati VL(1), Raso P(2), de Melo AL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology, ICB, UFMG, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
vitormati@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Department of Pathological Anatomy and Legal Medicine, FM, UFMG, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil. pedroraso29@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Parasitology, ICB, UFMG, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
aldemelo@icb.ufmg.br.

BACKGROUND: Strongyloides stercoralis can undergo an alternative autoinfective
life cycle in the host, which, in some individuals can lead to a lethal
infection. However, due to a number of factors, such as, the majority of those
infected are from low-income backgrounds and the limitation in experimental
models for studying human S. stercoralis, strongyloidiasis remains neglected.
Improved knowledge of animal models that are susceptible to this parasite is
needed in order to investigate the immunological mechanisms involved during
infection and in particular to further understand the natural history of the
autoinfective cycle.
METHODS: Callithrix penicillata were inoculated subcutaneously with 100 (n = 2), 
300 (n = 4) or 500 (n = 9) third-stage infective larvae (L3i) of S. stercoralis
of human origin. Three marmosets received smaller inocula (i.e., one received 100
and two received 300 L3i) to ensure a greater capacity to withstand the infection
after immunosuppression, which was triggered by administration of dexamethasone
during early patency. Qualitative faecal analyses began at 7 days post-infection 
(DPI), and semi-quantitative tests were also performed for the
dexamethasone-treated primates and the three matched controls. During the
necropsies, specimens of S. stercoralis were recovered and tissue fragments were 
processed for histopathology.
RESULTS: The mean prepatency and patency periods were 16.1 ± 3.0 and 161.1 ± 72.2
DPI, respectively. The marmosets typically tolerated the infection well, but
immunosuppressed individuals exhibited higher numbers of larvae in the faeces and
progressive clinical deterioration with late disseminated infection. In these
cases, the number of females recovered was significantly higher than the number
of inoculated L3i. Large quantities of larvae were observed migrating through the
host tissues, and histopathology revealed pulmonary and intestinal injuries
consistent with those observed in human strongyloidiasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Both complicated and uncomplicated strongyloidiasis occur in C.
penicillata that is described as a susceptible small non-human primate model for 
S. stercoralis. This host permits the maintenance of a human strain of the
parasite in the laboratory and can be useful for experimental investigations of
strongyloidiasis. In parallel, we discuss data related to the autoinfective cycle
that provides new insights into the biology of S. stercoralis.

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-014-0579-2 
PMCID: PMC4287166
PMID: 25499310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1317. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:72-81. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.11.003. Epub 2014 Dec
10.

The cortical motor system of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Bakola S(1), Burman KJ(2), Rosa MG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, 
Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. Electronic address:
sofia.bakola@monash.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, 
Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

Precise descriptions of the anatomical pathways that link different areas of the 
cerebral cortex are essential to the understanding of the sensorimotor and
association processes that underlie human actions, and their impairment in
pathological situations. Many years of research in macaque monkeys have
critically shaped how we currently think about cortical motor function in humans.
However, it is important to obtain additional understanding about the homologies 
between cortical areas in human and various non-human primates, and in particular
how evolutionary changes in connectivity within specific neural circuits impact
on the capacity for different behaviors. Current research has converged on the
New World marmoset monkey as an important animal model for cortical function and 
dysfunction, emphasizing advantages unique to this species. However, the motor
repertoire of the marmoset differs from that of the macaque in many ways,
including the capacity for skilled use of the hands. Here, we review current
knowledge about the cortical frontal areas in marmosets, which are key to the
generation and control of motor behaviors, with focus on comparative analyses. We
note significant parallels with the macaque monkey, as well as a few potentially 
important differences, which suggest future directions for work involving
architectonic and functional analyses.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.11.003 
PMID: 25498953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

