

1317. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:72-81. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.11.003. Epub 2014 Dec
10.

The cortical motor system of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Bakola S(1), Burman KJ(2), Rosa MG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, 
Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. Electronic address:
sofia.bakola@monash.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, 
Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

Precise descriptions of the anatomical pathways that link different areas of the 
cerebral cortex are essential to the understanding of the sensorimotor and
association processes that underlie human actions, and their impairment in
pathological situations. Many years of research in macaque monkeys have
critically shaped how we currently think about cortical motor function in humans.
However, it is important to obtain additional understanding about the homologies 
between cortical areas in human and various non-human primates, and in particular
how evolutionary changes in connectivity within specific neural circuits impact
on the capacity for different behaviors. Current research has converged on the
New World marmoset monkey as an important animal model for cortical function and 
dysfunction, emphasizing advantages unique to this species. However, the motor
repertoire of the marmoset differs from that of the macaque in many ways,
including the capacity for skilled use of the hands. Here, we review current
knowledge about the cortical frontal areas in marmosets, which are key to the
generation and control of motor behaviors, with focus on comparative analyses. We
note significant parallels with the macaque monkey, as well as a few potentially 
important differences, which suggest future directions for work involving
architectonic and functional analyses.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.11.003 
PMID: 25498953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1318. Int J Exp Pathol. 2014 Dec;95(6):378-91. doi: 10.1111/iep.12105. Epub 2014 Dec 5.

Comparative experimental subcutaneous glanders and melioidosis in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Salguero FJ, Dean RE, Ngugi SA, Smither SJ, Atkins TP, Lever MS.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl),
Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK.

Glanders and melioidosis are caused by two distinct Burkholderia species and have
generally been considered to have similar disease progression. While both of
these pathogens are HHS/CDC Tier 1 agents, natural infection with both these
pathogens is primarily through skin inoculation. The common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus) was used to compare disease following experimental subcutaneous
challenge. Acute, lethal disease was observed in marmosets following challenge
with between 26 and 1.2 × 10(8) cfu Burkholderia pseudomallei within 22-85 h. The
reproducibility and progression of the disease were assessed following a
challenge of 1 × 10(2) cfu of B. pseudomallei. Melioidosis was characterised by
high levels of bacteraemia, focal microgranuloma progressing to non-necrotic
multifocal solid lesions in the livers and spleens and multi-organ failure.
Lethal disease was observed in 93% of animals challenged with Burkholderia
mallei, occurring between 5 and 10.6 days. Following challenge with 1 × 10(2) cfu
of B. mallei, glanders was characterised with lymphatic spread of the bacteria
and non-necrotic, multifocal solid lesions progressing to a multifocal lesion
with severe necrosis and pneumonia. The experimental results confirmed that the
disease pathology and presentation is strikingly different between the two
pathogens. The marmoset provides a model of the human syndrome for both diseases 
facilitating the development of medical countermeasures.

© 2014 Crown copyright. International Journal of Experimental Pathology © 2014
Company of the International Journal of Experimental Pathology (CIJEP).

DOI: 10.1111/iep.12105 
PMCID: PMC4285464
PMID: 25477002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

