

1318. Int J Exp Pathol. 2014 Dec;95(6):378-91. doi: 10.1111/iep.12105. Epub 2014 Dec 5.

Comparative experimental subcutaneous glanders and melioidosis in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Salguero FJ, Dean RE, Ngugi SA, Smither SJ, Atkins TP, Lever MS.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl),
Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK.

Glanders and melioidosis are caused by two distinct Burkholderia species and have
generally been considered to have similar disease progression. While both of
these pathogens are HHS/CDC Tier 1 agents, natural infection with both these
pathogens is primarily through skin inoculation. The common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus) was used to compare disease following experimental subcutaneous
challenge. Acute, lethal disease was observed in marmosets following challenge
with between 26 and 1.2 × 10(8) cfu Burkholderia pseudomallei within 22-85 h. The
reproducibility and progression of the disease were assessed following a
challenge of 1 × 10(2) cfu of B. pseudomallei. Melioidosis was characterised by
high levels of bacteraemia, focal microgranuloma progressing to non-necrotic
multifocal solid lesions in the livers and spleens and multi-organ failure.
Lethal disease was observed in 93% of animals challenged with Burkholderia
mallei, occurring between 5 and 10.6 days. Following challenge with 1 × 10(2) cfu
of B. mallei, glanders was characterised with lymphatic spread of the bacteria
and non-necrotic, multifocal solid lesions progressing to a multifocal lesion
with severe necrosis and pneumonia. The experimental results confirmed that the
disease pathology and presentation is strikingly different between the two
pathogens. The marmoset provides a model of the human syndrome for both diseases 
facilitating the development of medical countermeasures.

© 2014 Crown copyright. International Journal of Experimental Pathology © 2014
Company of the International Journal of Experimental Pathology (CIJEP).

DOI: 10.1111/iep.12105 
PMCID: PMC4285464
PMID: 25477002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1319. Nat Med. 2014 Dec;20(12):1356-7. doi: 10.1038/nm1214-1356.

Advances in marmoset and mouse models buoy Ebola research.

Willyard C.

DOI: 10.1038/nm1214-1356 
PMID: 25473905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

