

1319. Nat Med. 2014 Dec;20(12):1356-7. doi: 10.1038/nm1214-1356.

Advances in marmoset and mouse models buoy Ebola research.

Willyard C.

DOI: 10.1038/nm1214-1356 
PMID: 25473905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1320. Brain Pathol. 2014 Sep;24(5):459-74. doi: 10.1111/bpa.12129. Epub 2014 Feb 28.

A reproducible and translatable model of focal ischemia in the visual cortex of
infant and adult marmoset monkeys.

Teo L(1), Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Vic., 
Australia.

Models of ischemic brain injury in the nonhuman primate (NHP) are advantageous
for investigating mechanisms of central nervous system (CNS) injuries and testing
of new therapeutic strategies. However, issues of reproducibility and
survivability persist in NHP models of CNS injuries. Furthermore, there are
currently no pediatric NHP models of ischemic brain injury. Therefore, we have
developed a NHP model of cortical focal ischemia that is highly reproducible
throughout life to enable better understanding of downstream consequences of
injury. Posterior cerebral arterial occlusion was induced through intracortical
injections of endothelin-1 in adult (n = 5) and neonatal (n = 3) marmosets,
followed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), histology and immunohistochemistry.
MRI revealed tissue hyperintensity at the lesion site at 1-7 days followed by
isointensity at 14-21 days. Peripheral macrophage and serum albumin infiltration 
was detected at 1 day, persisting at 21 days. The proportional loss of total V1
as a result of infarction was consistent in adults and neonates. Minor
hemorrhagic transformation was detected at 21 days at the lesion core, while
neovascularization was detected in neonates, but not in adults. We have developed
a highly reproducible and survivable model of focal ischemia in the adult and
neonatal marmoset primary visual cortex, demonstrating similar downstream
anatomical and cellular pathology to those observed in post-ischemic humans.

© 2014 International Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/bpa.12129 
PMCID: PMC8029183
PMID: 25469561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

