

132. Methods Mol Biol. 2021;2322:131-139. doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1495-2_13.

Common Marmoset Model of α-Synuclein Propagation.

Masuda-Suzukake M(1), Shimozawa A(1), Hashimoto M(1), Hasegawa M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Dementia Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science,
Tokyo, Japan. hasegawa-ms@igakuken.or.jp.

The propagation of assembled α-synuclein (αS) is key to understanding the
pathological mechanisms of synucleinopathies such as Parkinson's disease,
dementia with Lewy bodies, and multiple system atrophy.Here we describe a
nonhuman primate model of αS propagation using common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with an intracerebral injection of synthetic preformed αS fibrils. This 
protocol enables observation of the formation of phosphorylated αS pathology and 
its propagation three months after the injection.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1495-2_13 
PMID: 34043199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Nihon Saikingaku Zasshi. 2021;76(2):139-148. doi: 10.3412/jsb.76.139.

[Studies on the biological activities and emetic mechanism of staphylococcal
enterotoxins].

[Article in Japanese]

Ono H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Zoonoses, Kitasato University School of Veterinary Medicine.

Staphylococcus aureus food poisoning was shown by Dack et al. in 1930 to be
caused by staphylococcal enterotoxin (SE) produced by S. aureus, rather than by
the bacterial infection. However, the emetic mechanism of SE has remained
unclear. In this study, we analyzed the emetic activity of SE in several emetic
animal models and tried to elucidate the mechanism of emesis. We established a
small primate, common marmoset, as a novel emetic model for SE. We also analyzed 
the immunofluorescence analysis of the gastrointestinal tract of the common
marmoset and found that SE binds to submucosal mast cells in the gastrointestinal
tract and SE induces degranulation of the mast cells. Furthermore, we showed that
SE induces histamine releases, which is inhibited by mast cell stabilizer. In
addition, treatment of common marmosets with either mast cell stabilizer or
histamine H1 receptor antagonists suppressed the emetic response induced by SE.
These results indicate that orally administered SE binds to submucosal mast cells
in the gastrointestinal tract and causes degranulation, resulting in the release 
of histamine, which in turn causes emesis.

DOI: 10.3412/jsb.76.139 
PMID: 34039783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

