

1320. Brain Pathol. 2014 Sep;24(5):459-74. doi: 10.1111/bpa.12129. Epub 2014 Feb 28.

A reproducible and translatable model of focal ischemia in the visual cortex of
infant and adult marmoset monkeys.

Teo L(1), Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Vic., 
Australia.

Models of ischemic brain injury in the nonhuman primate (NHP) are advantageous
for investigating mechanisms of central nervous system (CNS) injuries and testing
of new therapeutic strategies. However, issues of reproducibility and
survivability persist in NHP models of CNS injuries. Furthermore, there are
currently no pediatric NHP models of ischemic brain injury. Therefore, we have
developed a NHP model of cortical focal ischemia that is highly reproducible
throughout life to enable better understanding of downstream consequences of
injury. Posterior cerebral arterial occlusion was induced through intracortical
injections of endothelin-1 in adult (n = 5) and neonatal (n = 3) marmosets,
followed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), histology and immunohistochemistry.
MRI revealed tissue hyperintensity at the lesion site at 1-7 days followed by
isointensity at 14-21 days. Peripheral macrophage and serum albumin infiltration 
was detected at 1 day, persisting at 21 days. The proportional loss of total V1
as a result of infarction was consistent in adults and neonates. Minor
hemorrhagic transformation was detected at 21 days at the lesion core, while
neovascularization was detected in neonates, but not in adults. We have developed
a highly reproducible and survivable model of focal ischemia in the adult and
neonatal marmoset primary visual cortex, demonstrating similar downstream
anatomical and cellular pathology to those observed in post-ischemic humans.

© 2014 International Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/bpa.12129 
PMCID: PMC8029183
PMID: 25469561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1321. Curr Opin Virol. 2014 Dec;9:97-103. doi: 10.1016/j.coviro.2014.09.012. Epub 2014 
Oct 14.

Recent developments in animal models for human herpesvirus 6A and 6B.

Horvat B(1), Berges BK(2), Lusso P(3).

Author information: 
(1)CIRI, International Center for Infectiology Research, France; Inserm, U1111,
Lyon, France; CNRS, UMR5308, Lyon, France; Université Lyon 1, Lyon, France; Ecole
Normale Supérieure de Lyon, Lyon, France.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Biology, Brigham Young University,
Provo, UT 84602, USA.
(3)Laboratory of Immunoregulation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. Electronic
address: plusso@niaid.nih.gov.

Progress in the identification of suitable animal models for human herpesvirus
(HHV)-6A and HHV-6B infections has been slow. Recently, new models have been
established, mainly for HHV-6A, which reproduce some pathological features seen
in humans. Neuroinflammatory signs were observed in infected marmosets and
CD46-transgenic mice; although viral replication was not prominent, persistence
of viral DNA and specific immunologic responses were detected, suggesting an
immune-mediated pathogenic mechanism. Pig-tailed macaques showed robust viral
replication concomitant with acute-phase symptoms, and provided a model to study 
the effects of HHV-6A on AIDS progression. In humanized mice, viral replication
was less evident, but infection led to T-cell alterations. Altogether, these
recent developments have opened new perspectives for studying the pathogenic role
of HHV-6A in humans.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coviro.2014.09.012 
PMCID: PMC4268362
PMID: 25462440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

