

1322. Neuroscience. 2015 Jan 22;284:400-411. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.10.015.
Epub 2014 Oct 20.

Internal capsule stroke in the common marmoset.

Puentes S(1), Kaido T(2), Hanakawa T(3), Ichinohe N(4), Otsuki T(5), Seki K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, 4-1-1
Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan. Electronic address:
sandra@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1
Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8551, Japan. Electronic address:
kaido@ncnp.go.jp.
(3)Department of Advanced Neuroimaging, Integrative Brain Image Center, National 
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8551,
Japan. Electronic address: hanakawa@ncnp.go.jp.
(4)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan. Electronic address:
nichino@ncnp.go.jp.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1
Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8551, Japan. Electronic address:
otsukit@ncnp.go.jp.
(6)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, 4-1-1
Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan. Electronic address:
seki@ncnp.go.jp.

White matter (WM) impairment and motor deficit after stroke are directly related.
However, WM injury mechanisms and their relation to motor disturbances are still 
poorly understood. In humans, the anterior choroidal artery (AChA) irrigates the 
internal capsule (IC), and stroke to this region can induce isolated motor
impairment. The goal of this study was to analyze whether AChA occlusion can
injure the IC in the marmoset monkey. The vascular distribution of the marmoset
brain was examined by colored latex perfusion and revealed high resemblance to
the human brain anatomy. Next, a new approach to electrocoagulate the AChA was
developed and chronic experiments showed infarction compromising the IC on
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanning (day 4) and histology (day 11).
Behavioral analysis was performed using a neurologic score previously developed
and our own scoring method. Marmosets showed a decreased score that was still
evident at day 10 after AChA electrocoagulation. We developed a new approach able
to induce damage to the marmoset IC that may be useful for the detailed study of 
WM impairment and behavioral changes after stroke in the nonhuman primate.

Copyright © 2014 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.10.015 
PMID: 25453768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1323. Neuroscience. 2015 Jan 22;284:566-580. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.10.032.
Epub 2014 Oct 24.

Comparative analysis of developmentally regulated expressions of Gadd45a,
Gadd45b, and Gadd45g in the mouse and marmoset cerebral cortex.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S(2), Oka M(2), Iriki A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Hirosawa 2-1, Wako 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address:
Eiji.Matsunaga@brain.riken.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Hirosawa 2-1, Wako 351-0198, Japan.

The cerebral cortex is an indispensable region that is involved in higher
cognitive function in the mammalian brain, and is particularly evolved in the
primate brain. It has been demonstrated that cortical areas are formed by both
innate and activity-dependent mechanisms. However, it remains unknown what
molecular changes induce cortical expansion and complexity during primate
evolution. Active DNA methylation/demethylation is one of the epigenetic
mechanisms that can modify gene expression via the methylation/demethylation of
promoter regions. Three growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible small nuclear
proteins, Gadd45 alpha, beta, and gamma, have been identified as regulators of
methylation status. To understand the involvement of epigenetic factors in
primate cortical evolution, we started by analyzing expression of these
demethylation genes in the developing common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and
mouse (Mus musculus) brain. In the marmoset brain, we found that cortical
expression levels of Gadd45 alpha and gamma were reduced during development,
whereas there was high expression of Gadd45 beta in some areas of the adult
brain, including the prefrontal, temporal, posterior parietal and insula
cortices, which are particularly expanded in greater primates and humans.
Compared to the marmoset brain, there were no clear regional differences and
constant or reduced Gadd45 expression was seen between juvenile and adult mouse
brain. Double staining with a neuronal marker revealed that most
Gadd45-expressing cells were NeuN-positive neurons. Thus, these results suggest
the possibility that differential Gadd45 expression affects neurons, contributing
cortical evolution and diversity.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.10.032 
PMID: 25450958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

