

1323. Neuroscience. 2015 Jan 22;284:566-580. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.10.032.
Epub 2014 Oct 24.

Comparative analysis of developmentally regulated expressions of Gadd45a,
Gadd45b, and Gadd45g in the mouse and marmoset cerebral cortex.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S(2), Oka M(2), Iriki A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Hirosawa 2-1, Wako 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address:
Eiji.Matsunaga@brain.riken.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Hirosawa 2-1, Wako 351-0198, Japan.

The cerebral cortex is an indispensable region that is involved in higher
cognitive function in the mammalian brain, and is particularly evolved in the
primate brain. It has been demonstrated that cortical areas are formed by both
innate and activity-dependent mechanisms. However, it remains unknown what
molecular changes induce cortical expansion and complexity during primate
evolution. Active DNA methylation/demethylation is one of the epigenetic
mechanisms that can modify gene expression via the methylation/demethylation of
promoter regions. Three growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible small nuclear
proteins, Gadd45 alpha, beta, and gamma, have been identified as regulators of
methylation status. To understand the involvement of epigenetic factors in
primate cortical evolution, we started by analyzing expression of these
demethylation genes in the developing common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and
mouse (Mus musculus) brain. In the marmoset brain, we found that cortical
expression levels of Gadd45 alpha and gamma were reduced during development,
whereas there was high expression of Gadd45 beta in some areas of the adult
brain, including the prefrontal, temporal, posterior parietal and insula
cortices, which are particularly expanded in greater primates and humans.
Compared to the marmoset brain, there were no clear regional differences and
constant or reduced Gadd45 expression was seen between juvenile and adult mouse
brain. Double staining with a neuronal marker revealed that most
Gadd45-expressing cells were NeuN-positive neurons. Thus, these results suggest
the possibility that differential Gadd45 expression affects neurons, contributing
cortical evolution and diversity.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.10.032 
PMID: 25450958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1324. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2014 Dec;127:62-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2014.10.009. Epub 
2014 Oct 31.

L-DOPA-induced behavioral sensitization of motor activity in the MPTP-treated
common marmoset as a Parkinson's disease model.

Ando K(1), Inoue T(2), Itoh T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki 210-0821, Japan.
Electronic address: ando@ciea.or.jp.
(2)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki 210-0821, Japan.

l-DOPA is the gold standard for treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). However,
the drug produces some serious side effects, including dyskinesia, which is
characterized by repetitive involuntary movements-including chorea. In the
present preclinical study using a nonhuman primate model, dyskinesia caused by
repeated l-DOPA administration was investigated in the context of behavioral
sensitization by objectively quantifying motor activity in the common marmoset of
PD model (the Parkinsonian marmoset). Twelve male Parkinsonian marmosets
previously treated with MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) and
six intact male marmosets were used. The motor activity of each marmoset was
measured using infrared sensors attached to each individual living cage.
Parkinsonian marmosets (n=6) exhibited behavioral sensitization (enhanced motor
activity) in 10weeks upon oral administration of l-DOPA (10mg/kg per day on
3days/week). These animals also exhibited dyskinesia characterized by repetitive 
rapid movements including chorea in 6-10weeks. Neither behavioral sensitization
nor dyskinesia was observed in Parkinsonian marmosets given vehicle and in intact
marmosets given l-DOPA at the same dose (both n=6 each). Behavioral sensitization
was detected sensitively and objectively on motor activity only in Parkinsonian
marmosets given repeated l-DOPA at a similar dose used in PD patients. The
behavioral feature of the marmosets was dyskinesia similar to that of PD patients
but appeared earlier than would be manifested in humans. In spite of
statistically significant behavioral sensitization, some marmosets did not
exhibit dyskinesia in the present limited l-DOPA administration period. Although 
both commonalities and differences may exist between behavioral sensitization and
dyskinesia, behavioral sensitization is considered to be an objective,
quantitative, sensitive and predictive measure of behavioral mechanism underlying
dyskinesia in preclinical studies in evaluating compounds.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2014.10.009 
PMID: 25449794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

