

1327. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2015 Jan;67(1):41-51. doi: 10.1016/j.etp.2014.09.007. Epub
2014 Nov 11.

Histopathological characterization of renal tubular and interstitial changes in
5/6 nephrectomized marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Suzuki Y(1), Yamaguchi I(2), Myojo K(2), Kimoto N(3), Imaizumi M(2), Takada C(2),
Sanada H(3), Takaba K(2), Yamate J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Research Unit, Research and Development Division, Kyowa Hakko
Kirin, Co., Ltd., Japan; Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University,
Japan. Electronic address: yui.manabe@kyowa-kirin.co.jp.
(2)Translational Research Unit, Research and Development Division, Kyowa Hakko
Kirin, Co., Ltd., Japan.
(3)Research Functions Unit, Research and Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin,
Co., Ltd., Japan.
(4)Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University, Japan.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have become a useful animal model,
particularly for development of biopharmaceuticals. While various renal failure
models have been established in rodents, there is currently no acceptable model
in marmosets. We analyzed the damaged renal tubules and tubulointerstitial
changes (inflammation and fibrosis) of 5/6 nephrectomized (Nx) common marmosets
by histopathological/immunohistochemical methods, and compared these findings to 
those in 5/6 Nx SD rats. In Nx marmosets and rats sacrificed at 5 and 13 weeks
after Nx, variously dilated and atrophied renal tubules were seen in the cortex
in common; however, the epithelial proliferating activity was much less in Nx
marmosets. Furthermore, the degrees of inflammation and fibrosis seen in the
affected cortex were more severe and massive in Nx marmosets with time-dependent 
increase. Interestingly, inflammation in Nx marmosets, of which degree was less
in Nx rats, consisted of a large number of CD3-positive T cells and CD20-positive
B cells (occasionally forming follicles), and a few CD68-positive macrophages.
Based on these findings, lymphocytes might contribute to the progressive renal
lesions in Nx marmosets. Fibrotic areas in Nx marmosets comprised myofibroblasts 
expressing vimentin and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), whereas along with
vimentin and α-SMA expressions, desmin was expressed in myofibroblasts in Nx
rats. This study shows that there are some differences in renal lesions induced
by Nx between marmosets and rats, which would provide useful, base-line
information for pharmacology and toxicology studies using Nx marmosets.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etp.2014.09.007 
PMID: 25446802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1328. Oncol Rep. 2015 Feb;33(2):958-66. doi: 10.3892/or.2014.3625. Epub 2014 Nov 25.

The V-val subtype Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 promotes cell survival
after serum withdrawal.

Chao M(1), Wang HN(1), Lu YJ(1), Chang YS(1), Yu JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Microbiology, Graduate Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Chang
Gung University, Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yang 333, Taiwan R.O.C.
(2)Molecular Medicine Research Center, College of Medicine, Chang Gung
University, Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yang 333, Taiwan R.O.C.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) can establish latent infection and has been associated
with various human cancers. Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) is the only
viral protein that is expressed in all EBV-associated malignant tissues. The N-
and C-terminal domains of EBNA1, which are connected by internal
glycine/alanine-rich short repeat sequences of various sizes, show sequence
divergence across EBV strains isolated from around the world. At least five
subtypes have been described, according to the amino acid at residue 487: P-ala, 
P-thr, V-val, V-pro, and V-leu. Whether the variations of EBNA-1 contribute to
the pathogenesis of EBV or simply reflect the geographical distribution of EBV
remain to be investigated. Furthermore, the cell effects conferred by EBNA1
subtypes that differ from that of the B95.8 prototype, which belongs to the P-ala
subtype, remain to be elucidated. In this study, PCR was amplified with the
full-length V-val EBNA1 gene from the CG3 cell line, an EBV-carrying
lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a Taiwanese chronic myeloid leukemia
patient. Plasmids expressing His-tagged EBNA1 fusion proteins in E. coli were
constructed and used to raise antibodies in rabbit. The V-val EBNA1 gene was then
cloned into a eukaryotic expression vector and successfully expressed in the
transfected cultured cells. Expression of V-val EBNA1 rendered 293 cells able to 
undergo serum‑independent cell proliferation, providing them with anti-apoptotic 
abilities, which are two characteristics of cancer cells. These data suggested
that use of EBNA1 originally derived from tumor cells, rather than the more
commonly utilized prototype, when investigating the potential role of EBNA1 in
the oncogenesis of EBV-associated malignancies, is crucial.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2014.3625 
PMID: 25434292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

