

133. Nihon Saikingaku Zasshi. 2021;76(2):139-148. doi: 10.3412/jsb.76.139.

[Studies on the biological activities and emetic mechanism of staphylococcal
enterotoxins].

[Article in Japanese]

Ono H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Zoonoses, Kitasato University School of Veterinary Medicine.

Staphylococcus aureus food poisoning was shown by Dack et al. in 1930 to be
caused by staphylococcal enterotoxin (SE) produced by S. aureus, rather than by
the bacterial infection. However, the emetic mechanism of SE has remained
unclear. In this study, we analyzed the emetic activity of SE in several emetic
animal models and tried to elucidate the mechanism of emesis. We established a
small primate, common marmoset, as a novel emetic model for SE. We also analyzed 
the immunofluorescence analysis of the gastrointestinal tract of the common
marmoset and found that SE binds to submucosal mast cells in the gastrointestinal
tract and SE induces degranulation of the mast cells. Furthermore, we showed that
SE induces histamine releases, which is inhibited by mast cell stabilizer. In
addition, treatment of common marmosets with either mast cell stabilizer or
histamine H1 receptor antagonists suppressed the emetic response induced by SE.
These results indicate that orally administered SE binds to submucosal mast cells
in the gastrointestinal tract and causes degranulation, resulting in the release 
of histamine, which in turn causes emesis.

DOI: 10.3412/jsb.76.139 
PMID: 34039783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Brain Struct Funct. 2021 Dec;226(9):2745-2762. doi: 10.1007/s00429-021-02295-8.
Epub 2021 May 21.

Retinal ganglion cells projecting to superior colliculus and pulvinar in
marmoset.

Grünert U(1)(2), Lee SCS(3)(4), Kwan WC(5), Mundinano IC(5), Bourne JA(5), Martin
PR(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute, Discipline of Clinical Ophthalmology, Sydney Medical
School, The University of Sydney, 8 Macquarie Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000,
Australia. ulrike.grunert@sydney.edu.au.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia.
ulrike.grunert@sydney.edu.au.
(3)Save Sight Institute, Discipline of Clinical Ophthalmology, Sydney Medical
School, The University of Sydney, 8 Macquarie Street, Sydney, NSW, 2000,
Australia.
(4)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia.
(5)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC,
Australia.

We determined the retinal ganglion cell types projecting to the medial
subdivision of inferior pulvinar (PIm) and the superior colliculus (SC) in the
common marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus. Adult marmosets received a
bidirectional tracer cocktail into the PIm (conjugated to Alexa fluor 488), and
the SC (conjugated to Alexa fluor 594) using an MRI-guided approach. One SC
injection included the pretectum. The large majority of retrogradely labelled
cells were obtained from SC injections, with only a small proportion obtained
after PIm injections. Retrogradely labelled cells were injected intracellularly
in vitro using lipophilic dyes (DiI, DiO). The SC and PIm both received input
from a variety of ganglion cell types. Input to the PIm was dominated by broad
thorny (41%), narrow thorny (24%) and large bistratified (25%) ganglion cells.
Input to the SC was dominated by parasol (37%), broad thorny (24%) and narrow
thorny (17%) cells. Midget ganglion cells (which make up the large majority of
primate retinal ganglion cells) and small bistratified (blue-ON/yellow OFF) cells
were never observed to project to SC or PIm. Small numbers of other wide-field
ganglion cell types were also encountered. Giant sparse (presumed
melanopsin-expressing) cells were only seen following the tracer injection which 
included the pretectum. We note that despite the location of pulvinar complex in 
dorsal thalamus, and its increased size and functional importance in primate
evolution, the retinal projections to pulvinar have more in common with SC
projections than they do with projections to the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany,
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-021-02295-8 
PMID: 34021395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

