

1330. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:326524. doi: 10.1155/2014/326524. Epub 2014 Nov
6.

Behavioral adjustments by a small neotropical primate (Callithrix jacchus) in a
semiarid Caatinga environment.

De la Fuente MF(1), Souto A(2), Sampaio MB(1), Schiel N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Rua Dom
Manoel de Medeiros, s/n, Dois Irmãos, 52171-900 Recife, PE, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Avenida Prof.
Moraes Rego, No. 1235, Cidade Universitária, 50670-901 Recife, PE, Brazil.

We provide the first information on the behavior of a small primate (Callithrix
jacchus) inhabiting a semiarid Caatinga environment in northeastern Brazil. We
observed behavioral variations in response to temperature fluctuation throughout 
the day. Due to the high temperatures, low precipitation, and resource scarcity
in the Caatinga, as well as the lack of physiological adaptations (e.g., a highly
concentrated urine and a carotid rete to cool down the brain) of these primates, 
we expected that the common marmosets would exhibit behavioral adjustments, such 
as a prolonged resting period or the use of a large home range. During the
six-month period, we collected 246 hours of behavioral data of two groups (10
individuals) of Callithrix jacchus. Most of the observed behavioral patterns were
influenced by temperature fluctuation. Animals rested longer and reduced other
activities, such as foraging, when temperatures were higher. Both study groups
exploited home ranges of 2.21-3.26 ha, which is within the range described for
common marmosets inhabiting the Atlantic Forest. Our findings confirm that common
marmosets inhabiting the Caatinga adjust their behavioral patterns to cope with
the high temperatures that characterize this environment and highlight their
ability to survive across a wide range of different environmental conditions.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/326524 
PMCID: PMC4241275
PMID: 25431785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2014 Nov 24;12:114. doi: 10.1186/1477-7827-12-114.

Making gametes from pluripotent stem cells--a promising role for very small
embryonic-like stem cells.

Bhartiya D(1), Hinduja I, Patel H, Bhilawadikar R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Department, National Institute for Research in Reproductive 
Health (ICMR), Mumbai 400 012, India. deepa.bhartiya@yahoo.in.

The urge to have one's own biological child supersedes any desire in life.
Several options have been used to obtain gametes including pluripotent stem cells
(embryonic ES and induced pluripotent iPS stem cells); gonadal stem cells
(spermatogonial SSCs, ovarian OSCs stem cells), bone marrow, mesenchymal cells
and fetal skin. However, the field poses a huge challenge including inefficient
existing protocols for differentiation, epigenetic and genetic changes associated
with extensive in vitro manipulation and also ethical/regulatory constraints. A
tremendous leap in the field occurred using mouse ES and iPS cells wherein they
were first differentiated into epiblast-like cells and then primordial germ
cell-like cells. These on further development produced sperm, oocytes and live
offspring (had associated genetic problems). Evidently differentiating
pluripotent stem cells into primordial germ cells (PGCs) remains a major
bottleneck. Against this backdrop, we propose that a novel population of
pluripotent stem cells termed very small embryonic-like stem cells (VSELs) may
serve as an alternative, potential source of autologus gametes, keeping in mind
that they are indeed PGCs surviving in adult mammalian ovaries and testes. Both
VSELs and PGCs are pluripotent, relatively quiescent because of epigenetic
modifications of parentally imprinted genes loci like Igf2-H19 and KCNQ1p57,
share several markers like Stella, Fragilis, Mvh, Dppa2, Dppa4, Sall4, Blimp1 and
functional receptors. VSELs are localized in the basement membrane of
seminiferous tubules in testis and in the ovary surface epithelium. Ovarian stem 
cells from mouse, rabbit, sheep, marmoset and humans (menopausal women and those 
with premature ovarian failure) spontaneously differentiate into oocyte-like
structures in vitro with no additional requirement of growth factors. Thus a more
pragmatic option to obtain autologus gametes may be the pluripotent VSELs and if 
we could manipulate them in vivo - existing ethical and epigenetic/genetic
concerns associated with in vitro culture may also be minimized. The field of
oncofertility may undergo a sea-change and existing strategies of
cryopreservation of gametes and gonadal tissue for fertility preservation in
cancer patients will necessitate a revision. However, first the scientific
community needs to arrive at a consensus about VSELs in the gonads and then work 
towards exploiting their potential.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-12-114 
PMCID: PMC4255929
PMID: 25421462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

