

1333. Comp Med. 2014 Oct;64(5):394-403.

Micromelic dysplasia-like syndrome in a captive colony of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Bosseler L(1), Cornillie P(2), Saunders JH(3), Bakker J(4), Langermans JA(4),
Casteleyn C(5), Decostere A(2), Chiers K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Poultry Diseases, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
leslie.bosseler@ugent.be.
(2)Department of Morphology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University,
Merelbeke, Belgium.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medical Imaging and Small Animal Orthopaedics,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.
(4)Department of Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Morphology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University,
Merelbeke, Belgium; Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of Pharmaceutical,
Bio-chemical and Veterinary Sciences, University of Antwerp, Wilrijk, Belgium.
(6)Department of Pathology, Bacteriology and Poultry Diseases, Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine, Ghent University, Merelbeke, Belgium.

Over several years, 0% to 5% of adolescent animals in a captive colony of common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) showed severely bended arms and legs over several 
years. The animals showed no pain, discomfort, or altered behavior but were
unable to stretch their distal limbs to their full extent. To characterize the
lesion morphologically, the bones of 4 affected marmosets were compared
macroscopically and radiographically with those of 6 unaffected animals. The
deformities were characterized by mid- to distal diaphyseal bending and
pronounced shortening of long bones. The morphology and density of other bones
including the skull and vertebrae were unaffected. Although vitamin D values were
low in a fifth affected marmoset during 10 to 16 mo of age, lesions associated
with rickets were not observed. To our knowledge, this report is the first to
describe a micromelic dysplasia-like syndrome comprising severe, idiopathic
bending and shortening of long bones in a colony of marmosets.


PMCID: PMC4236788
PMID: 25402180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. Clin Exp Immunol. 2015 Apr;180(1):28-39. doi: 10.1111/cei.12487.

Immune modulation by a tolerogenic myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)10-60
containing fusion protein in the marmoset experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis model.

Kap YS(1), van Driel N, Arends R, Rouwendal G, Verolin M, Blezer E, Lycke N, 't
Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands; MS Centre ErasMS, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Department of
Immunology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Current therapies for multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic autoimmune
neuroinflammatory disease, mostly target general cell populations or immune
molecules, which may lead to a compromised immune system. A more directed
strategy would be to re-enforce tolerance of the autoaggressive T cells that
drive tissue inflammation and injury. In this study, we have investigated whether
the course of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in mice and
marmosets can be altered by a potent tolerizing fusion protein. In addition, a
multi-parameter immunological analysis was performed in marmosets to assess
whether the treatment induces modulation of EAE-associated cellular and humoral
immune reactions. The fusion protein, CTA1R9K-hMOG10-60-DD, contains a mutated
cholera toxin A1 subunit (CTA1R9K), a dimer of the Ig binding D region of
Staphylococcus aureus protein A (DD), and the human myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (hMOG) sequence 10-60. We observed that intranasal application of
CTA1R9K-hMOG10-60-DD seems to skew the immune response against myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) towards a regulatory function. We show a
reduced number of circulating macrophages, reduced MOG-induced expansion of
mononuclear cells in peripheral blood, reduced MOG-induced production of
interleukin (IL)-17A in spleen, increased MOG-induced production of IL-4 and
IL-10 and an increased percentage of cells expressing programmed cell death-1
(PD-1) and CC chemokine receptor 4 (CCR4). Nevertheless, the treatment did not
detectably change the EAE course and pathology. Thus, despite a detectable effect
on relevant immune parameters, the fusion protein failed to influence the
clinical and pathological outcome of disease. This result warrants further
development and improvement of this specifically targeted tolerance inducing
therapy.

Â© 2014 British Society for Immunology.

DOI: 10.1111/cei.12487 
PMCID: PMC4367091
PMID: 25393803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

