

1334. Clin Exp Immunol. 2015 Apr;180(1):28-39. doi: 10.1111/cei.12487.

Immune modulation by a tolerogenic myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)10-60
containing fusion protein in the marmoset experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis model.

Kap YS(1), van Driel N, Arends R, Rouwendal G, Verolin M, Blezer E, Lycke N, 't
Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands; MS Centre ErasMS, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Department of
Immunology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Current therapies for multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic autoimmune
neuroinflammatory disease, mostly target general cell populations or immune
molecules, which may lead to a compromised immune system. A more directed
strategy would be to re-enforce tolerance of the autoaggressive T cells that
drive tissue inflammation and injury. In this study, we have investigated whether
the course of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in mice and
marmosets can be altered by a potent tolerizing fusion protein. In addition, a
multi-parameter immunological analysis was performed in marmosets to assess
whether the treatment induces modulation of EAE-associated cellular and humoral
immune reactions. The fusion protein, CTA1R9K-hMOG10-60-DD, contains a mutated
cholera toxin A1 subunit (CTA1R9K), a dimer of the Ig binding D region of
Staphylococcus aureus protein A (DD), and the human myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (hMOG) sequence 10-60. We observed that intranasal application of
CTA1R9K-hMOG10-60-DD seems to skew the immune response against myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) towards a regulatory function. We show a
reduced number of circulating macrophages, reduced MOG-induced expansion of
mononuclear cells in peripheral blood, reduced MOG-induced production of
interleukin (IL)-17A in spleen, increased MOG-induced production of IL-4 and
IL-10 and an increased percentage of cells expressing programmed cell death-1
(PD-1) and CC chemokine receptor 4 (CCR4). Nevertheless, the treatment did not
detectably change the EAE course and pathology. Thus, despite a detectable effect
on relevant immune parameters, the fusion protein failed to influence the
clinical and pathological outcome of disease. This result warrants further
development and improvement of this specifically targeted tolerance inducing
therapy.

Â© 2014 British Society for Immunology.

DOI: 10.1111/cei.12487 
PMCID: PMC4367091
PMID: 25393803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. J Vet Med Sci. 2015 Mar;77(3):345-8. doi: 10.1292/jvms.14-0378. Epub 2014 Nov 13.

Congenital malformation of the vaginal orifice, imperforate vagina, in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Niimi K(1), Oguchi A, Nishio K, Okano Y, Takahashi E.

Author information: 
(1)Support Unit for Animal Resources Development, Research Resources Center,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

The following is a report on a congenital vaginal malformation, imperforate
vagina, in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). This anomaly was observed
for the first time in an adult female in our research colony. There was no
uterine and vaginal aplasia or atresia in her grossly normal genital tract. The
plasma progesterone concentration suggested that the ovarian cycle had ceased.
However, this may not be related to a functional anomaly, but rather to
suppressed ovulation resulting from subordination to cagemates considering the
various stages of follicular development observed.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.14-0378 
PMCID: PMC4383783
PMID: 25391536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

