

1335. J Vet Med Sci. 2015 Mar;77(3):345-8. doi: 10.1292/jvms.14-0378. Epub 2014 Nov 13.

Congenital malformation of the vaginal orifice, imperforate vagina, in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Niimi K(1), Oguchi A, Nishio K, Okano Y, Takahashi E.

Author information: 
(1)Support Unit for Animal Resources Development, Research Resources Center,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

The following is a report on a congenital vaginal malformation, imperforate
vagina, in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). This anomaly was observed
for the first time in an adult female in our research colony. There was no
uterine and vaginal aplasia or atresia in her grossly normal genital tract. The
plasma progesterone concentration suggested that the ovarian cycle had ceased.
However, this may not be related to a functional anomaly, but rather to
suppressed ovulation resulting from subordination to cagemates considering the
various stages of follicular development observed.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.14-0378 
PMCID: PMC4383783
PMID: 25391536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. J Toxicol Pathol. 2014 Oct;27(3-4):183-95. doi: 10.1293/tox.2013-0055. Epub 2014 
Jul 3.

Five-sixth Nephrectomy in Female Common Marmosets(Callithrix jacchus) as a
Chronic Renal Failure Model: -A Longitudinal Course of Serum Biochemical,
Hematological and Histopathological Changes-.

Yamaguchi I(1), Myojo K(1), Sanada H(1), Takami A(1), Suzuki Y(2), Imaizumi M(1),
Takada C(1), Kimoto N(1), Saeki K(1), Yamate J(3), Takaba K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fuji Research Park, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188 Shimotogari,
Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.
(2)Fuji Research Park, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188 Shimotogari,
Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan ; Veterinary Pathology, Osaka 
Prefecture University, 1-58 Rinkuu Ourai Kita, Izumisano, Osaka 598-8531, Japan.
(3)Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University, 1-58 Rinkuu Ourai Kita,
Izumisano, Osaka 598-8531, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Toxicol Pathol. 2016 Jan;29(1):74.

To assess the relevance and availability of subtotal nephrectomized common
marmoset monkeys as a chronic renal failure (CRF) model, we observed for 26 weeks
the pathophysiological condition of female marmosets subjected to five-sixth
surgical nephrectomy (5/6Nx) by a two-step surgical method. The 5/6Nx marmosets
showed a significant increase in serum levels of urea nitrogen, creatinine and
cystatin-C immediately after 5/6Nx surgery. These renal disorder parameters
subsequently tended to decrease with the passage of time but remained higher than
the control levels by the end of the study. Hyperplastic parathyroid glands, a
high turnover state of osteodystrophy in the femoral bone with higher serum ALP
activity and anemia with hypocellularity of bone marrow were evident. The 5/6Nx
marmosets showed a stable CRF condition for a long time and some characteristic
disorders similar to those observed in CRF patients. These diagnostic aspects
might be a species-specific anatomical and physiological signature, reflecting
the nutritional condition. The CRF model using 5/6Nx marmosets might become a
useful method of evaluating the unique mechanism of CRF development.

DOI: 10.1293/tox.2013-0055 
PMCID: PMC4217228
PMID: 25378803 

