

1336. J Toxicol Pathol. 2014 Oct;27(3-4):183-95. doi: 10.1293/tox.2013-0055. Epub 2014 
Jul 3.

Five-sixth Nephrectomy in Female Common Marmosets(Callithrix jacchus) as a
Chronic Renal Failure Model: -A Longitudinal Course of Serum Biochemical,
Hematological and Histopathological Changes-.

Yamaguchi I(1), Myojo K(1), Sanada H(1), Takami A(1), Suzuki Y(2), Imaizumi M(1),
Takada C(1), Kimoto N(1), Saeki K(1), Yamate J(3), Takaba K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fuji Research Park, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188 Shimotogari,
Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.
(2)Fuji Research Park, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188 Shimotogari,
Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan ; Veterinary Pathology, Osaka 
Prefecture University, 1-58 Rinkuu Ourai Kita, Izumisano, Osaka 598-8531, Japan.
(3)Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University, 1-58 Rinkuu Ourai Kita,
Izumisano, Osaka 598-8531, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Toxicol Pathol. 2016 Jan;29(1):74.

To assess the relevance and availability of subtotal nephrectomized common
marmoset monkeys as a chronic renal failure (CRF) model, we observed for 26 weeks
the pathophysiological condition of female marmosets subjected to five-sixth
surgical nephrectomy (5/6Nx) by a two-step surgical method. The 5/6Nx marmosets
showed a significant increase in serum levels of urea nitrogen, creatinine and
cystatin-C immediately after 5/6Nx surgery. These renal disorder parameters
subsequently tended to decrease with the passage of time but remained higher than
the control levels by the end of the study. Hyperplastic parathyroid glands, a
high turnover state of osteodystrophy in the femoral bone with higher serum ALP
activity and anemia with hypocellularity of bone marrow were evident. The 5/6Nx
marmosets showed a stable CRF condition for a long time and some characteristic
disorders similar to those observed in CRF patients. These diagnostic aspects
might be a species-specific anatomical and physiological signature, reflecting
the nutritional condition. The CRF model using 5/6Nx marmosets might become a
useful method of evaluating the unique mechanism of CRF development.

DOI: 10.1293/tox.2013-0055 
PMCID: PMC4217228
PMID: 25378803 


1337. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 5;9(11):e112321. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112321.
eCollection 2014.

Vegetable exudates as food for Callithrix spp. (Callitrichidae): exploratory
patterns.

Francisco TM(1), Couto DR(2), Zanuncio JC(1), Serrão JE(3), Silva Ide O(1), Boere
V(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36570-900,
Viçosa, MG, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Botânica/Museu Nacional, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, 20940-040, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36570-900,
Viçosa, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, 36570-900, Viçosa, Brazil.

Marmosets of the genus Callithrix are specialized in the consumption of tree
exudates to obtain essential nutritional resource by boring holes into bark with 
teeth. However, marmoset preferences for particular tree species, location, type,
and other suitable factors that aid in exudate acquisition need further research.
In the current study, the intensity of exudate use from Anadenanthera peregrina
var. peregrina trees by hybrid marmosets Callithrix spp. groups was studied in
five forest fragments in Viçosa, in the state of Minas, Brazil. Thirty-nine A.
peregrina var. peregrina trees were examined and 8,765 active and non-active
holes were analyzed. The trunk of A. peregrina var. peregrina had a lower number 
of holes than the canopy: 11% were found on the trunk and 89% were found on the
canopy. The upper canopy was the preferred area by Callithrix spp. for obtaining 
exudates. The intensity of tree exploitation by marmosets showed a
moderate-to-weak correlation with diameter at breast height (DBH) and total tree 
height. The overall results indicate that Anadenanthera peregrina var. peregrina 
provides food resources for hybrid marmosets (Callithrix spp.) and these animals 
prefer to explore this resource on the apical parts of the plant, where the
thickness, location, and age of the branches are the main features involved in
the acquisition of exudates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112321 
PMCID: PMC4221360
PMID: 25372137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

