

1337. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 5;9(11):e112321. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112321.
eCollection 2014.

Vegetable exudates as food for Callithrix spp. (Callitrichidae): exploratory
patterns.

Francisco TM(1), Couto DR(2), Zanuncio JC(1), Serrão JE(3), Silva Ide O(1), Boere
V(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36570-900,
Viçosa, MG, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Botânica/Museu Nacional, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, 20940-040, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36570-900,
Viçosa, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, 36570-900, Viçosa, Brazil.

Marmosets of the genus Callithrix are specialized in the consumption of tree
exudates to obtain essential nutritional resource by boring holes into bark with 
teeth. However, marmoset preferences for particular tree species, location, type,
and other suitable factors that aid in exudate acquisition need further research.
In the current study, the intensity of exudate use from Anadenanthera peregrina
var. peregrina trees by hybrid marmosets Callithrix spp. groups was studied in
five forest fragments in Viçosa, in the state of Minas, Brazil. Thirty-nine A.
peregrina var. peregrina trees were examined and 8,765 active and non-active
holes were analyzed. The trunk of A. peregrina var. peregrina had a lower number 
of holes than the canopy: 11% were found on the trunk and 89% were found on the
canopy. The upper canopy was the preferred area by Callithrix spp. for obtaining 
exudates. The intensity of tree exploitation by marmosets showed a
moderate-to-weak correlation with diameter at breast height (DBH) and total tree 
height. The overall results indicate that Anadenanthera peregrina var. peregrina 
provides food resources for hybrid marmosets (Callithrix spp.) and these animals 
prefer to explore this resource on the apical parts of the plant, where the
thickness, location, and age of the branches are the main features involved in
the acquisition of exudates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112321 
PMCID: PMC4221360
PMID: 25372137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1338. Tissue Antigens. 2014 Dec;84(6):568-73. doi: 10.1111/tan.12453. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

Characterization of major histocompatibility complex class I allele polymorphisms
in common marmosets.

Li T(1), Xu Y, Yin S, Liu B, Zhu S, Wang W, Wang Y, Liu F, Allain JP, Li C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou,
China.

Currently, little information is available for major histocompatibility complex
(MHC)-I that conditions the T-cell response of marmosets. In this study, 471
clones of MHC-I cDNA sequences were isolated from 12 marmosets. Twenty
full-length sequences of class I G (Caja-G) alleles were obtained from these
marmosets, 15 of them were novel. Among these 20 Caja-G alleles, 10 were found in
individual animals while the rests were in two to four marmosets, but none was
common to all animals. Ten marmosets possessed one to three Caja-G alleles, and
two marmosets carried five or six alleles, which suggested that the Caja-G locus 
was duplicated in marmoset's genome. The high polymorphisms of Caja-G sequences
provided important information helpful for understanding the cellular immune
response in virus-infected marmosets.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tan.12453 
PMID: 25355647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

