

1340. Anim Behav. 2014 Oct 1;97:95-103.

Both parents respond equally to infant cues in the cooperatively breeding common 
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Sánchez SM(1), Ziegler TE(2), Snowdon CT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Psicología Biológica y de la Salud, Universidad Autónoma de
Madrid, Spain.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison, WI, U.S.A.
(3)Psychology Department, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, U.S.A.

Although there has been great interest in the evolutionary approach to
cooperative breeding species, few studies actually directly compare fathers and
mothers on their motivation to parent offspring. We tested the responsiveness of 
common marmoset mothers and fathers to vocal and olfactory cues from their own
and other infants using a two-chamber test apparatus designed to evaluate
responses in the absence of competition from other caregivers within the family. 
We tested parentally experienced mothers and fathers living with young infants
and former parents with no current offspring to address the following questions: 
(1) do mothers and fathers respond equally to sensory cues of infants; (2) do
parents discriminate cues of their own offspring when the infants are highly
dependent and when the infants are more independent; and (3) are parents
responsive to both auditory and olfactory cues? Mothers and fathers reacted
similarly in all tests. Parents responded equally to isolation calls from their
own and unfamiliar dependent infants and there was minimal response to olfactory 
cues. Responses to infant vocal cues were significantly stronger when infants
were dependent upon direct parental care. There was no difference in response
between parents whose infants were no longer dependent and former parents with no
current offspring. The results show that both parents are highly responsive to
infant vocal cues when their own infants are dependent on parental care,
supporting an effect of hormonal priming. However, parents only showed
behavioural discrimination between vocalizations from their own and unfamiliar
infants when their infants were mostly independent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2014.09.002 
PMCID: PMC4203656
PMID: 25342858 


1341. Ups J Med Sci. 2014 Nov;119(4):298-305. doi: 10.3109/03009734.2014.970304. Epub
2014 Oct 24.

Platelet-derived growth factor in glioblastoma-driver or biomarker?

Westermark B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University , Uppsala
, Sweden.

The platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) family of mitogens exerts vital
functions during embryonal development, e.g. in the central nervous system, where
PDGF drives the proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors. PDGF and PDGF
receptors are co-expressed in human glioblastoma (GBM). Whether an aberrant
activation of the PDGF receptor pathway is a driving force in glioma development 
has remained an open question. In experimental animals, overexpression of PDGF
has convincingly been shown to induce tumors, both in wild-type animals
(marmoset, rat, mouse) and in mice with targeted deletions of suppressor genes,
e.g. Tp53 or Ink4A. Targeting the PDGF receptor in tumor-bearing mice leads to
growth inhibition and reversion of the transformed phenotype. Findings of PDGF
receptor amplification or mutations in human GBM are strong indicators of a
causative role of the PDGF receptor pathway. However, clinical trials using PDGF 
receptor antagonists have been disappointing. In conclusion, a PDGF receptor
profile may be a biomarker for a subgroup of GBM originating from a PDGF
receptor-responsive cell. Although compelling experimental and clinical evidence 
supports the notion that the PDGF receptor pathway is a driver in GBM, formal
proof is still missing.

DOI: 10.3109/03009734.2014.970304 
PMCID: PMC4248069
PMID: 25342206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

