

1341. Ups J Med Sci. 2014 Nov;119(4):298-305. doi: 10.3109/03009734.2014.970304. Epub
2014 Oct 24.

Platelet-derived growth factor in glioblastoma-driver or biomarker?

Westermark B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University , Uppsala
, Sweden.

The platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) family of mitogens exerts vital
functions during embryonal development, e.g. in the central nervous system, where
PDGF drives the proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors. PDGF and PDGF
receptors are co-expressed in human glioblastoma (GBM). Whether an aberrant
activation of the PDGF receptor pathway is a driving force in glioma development 
has remained an open question. In experimental animals, overexpression of PDGF
has convincingly been shown to induce tumors, both in wild-type animals
(marmoset, rat, mouse) and in mice with targeted deletions of suppressor genes,
e.g. Tp53 or Ink4A. Targeting the PDGF receptor in tumor-bearing mice leads to
growth inhibition and reversion of the transformed phenotype. Findings of PDGF
receptor amplification or mutations in human GBM are strong indicators of a
causative role of the PDGF receptor pathway. However, clinical trials using PDGF 
receptor antagonists have been disappointing. In conclusion, a PDGF receptor
profile may be a biomarker for a subgroup of GBM originating from a PDGF
receptor-responsive cell. Although compelling experimental and clinical evidence 
supports the notion that the PDGF receptor pathway is a driver in GBM, formal
proof is still missing.

DOI: 10.3109/03009734.2014.970304 
PMCID: PMC4248069
PMID: 25342206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1342. Mitochondrial DNA A DNA Mapp Seq Anal. 2016 May;27(3):1920-1. doi:
10.3109/19401736.2014.971287. Epub 2014 Oct 20.

The complete mitochondrial genome of white-tufted-ear marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus (Primates: Callitrichinae).

Wang W(1), Liu JY(1), Wang HF(1), Yang MY(1), Liu QY(1), Ding MX(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Urology , the Second Affiliated Hospital of Kunming Medical
University, Yunnan Institute of Urology , Kunming , P.R. China.

The white-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that
inhabits the coastal rainforests of eastern Brazil. In the present work, we
report the complete mitochondrial genome sequence of white-tufted-ear marmoset
for the first time. The total length of this mitogenome is 16,499 bp long,
containing 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes,
and 1 non-coding region (D-loop region). The gene organization and arrangement is
identical to typical vertebrates. The overall base composition is 32.75% of A,
26.95% of T, 26.91% C, and 13.39% G, with a slight A + T bias of 59.7%. All the
genes are encoded on H-strand, except for the ND6 subunit gene and 8 tRNA genes. 
The complete mitochondrial genome sequence reported here will be useful for
comparative genomics studies in primates.

DOI: 10.3109/19401736.2014.971287 
PMID: 25329280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

