

1343. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:136-43. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.10.001. Epub 2014
Oct 12.

Individual variability in visual discrimination and reversal learning performance
in common marmosets.

Takemoto A(1), Miwa M(1), Koba R(1), Yamaguchi C(1), Suzuki H(1), Nakamura K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(2)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
nakamura.katsuki.4z@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Detailed information about the characteristics of learning behavior in marmosets 
is useful for future marmoset research. We trained 42 marmosets in visual
discrimination and reversal learning. All marmosets could learn visual
discrimination, and all but one could complete reversal learning, though some
marmosets failed to touch the visual stimuli and were screened out. In 87% of
measurements, the final percentage of correct responses was over 95%. We
quantified performance with two measures: onset trial and dynamic interval. Onset
trial represents the number of trials that elapsed before the marmoset started to
learn. Dynamic interval represents the number of trials from the start before
reaching the final percentage of correct responses. Both measures decreased
drastically as a result of the formation of discrimination learning sets. In
reversal learning, both measures worsened, but the effect on onset trial was far 
greater. The effects of age and sex were not significant as far as we used
adolescent or young adult marmosets. Unexpectedly, experimental circumstance (in 
the colony or isolator) had only a subtle effect on performance. However, we
found that marmosets from different families exhibited different learning process
characteristics, suggesting some family effect on learning.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.10.001 
PMID: 25315397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1344. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2014 Nov;297(11):2093-104. doi: 10.1002/ar.23029.

Nasal morphometry in marmosets: loss and redistribution of olfactory surface
area.

Smith TD(1), Eiting TP, Bonar CJ, Craven BA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock,
Pennsylvania; Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

The two major groups of primates differ in internal nasal anatomy. Strepsirrhines
(e.g., lemurs) have more numerous turbinals and recesses compared with
haplorhines (e.g., monkeys). Since detailed quantitative comparisons of nasal
surface area (SA) have not been made, we measured mucosa in serially sectioned
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus, Cebuella pygmaea). Data were compared with
previously published findings on the mouse lemur, Microcebus murinus. The nasal
airways were digitally reconstructed using computed tomography scanned heads of
Cebuella and Microcebus. In addition, morphometric and functional analyses were
carried out using segmented photographs of the histological sections of Cebuella 
and Microcebus. The SA of the ethmoturbinal complex is about half as large in
marmosets compared with Microcebus, and is covered with less olfactory mucosa
(18%-24% in marmosets, compared with ∼ 50% in Microcebus). Whereas the
ethmoturbinal complex of Microcebus bears half of the total olfactory mucosa in
the nasal airway, most (∼ 80%) olfactory mucosa is distributed on other surfaces 
in the marmosets (e.g., nasal septum). A comparison to previously published data 
suggests all primate species have less olfactory surface area (OSA) compared with
other similar-sized mammals, but this is especially true of marmosets. Taken
together, these findings support the hypothesis that there is a reduced OSA in at
least some haplorhines, and this can be linked to diminished posterosuperior
dimensions of the nasal fossae. However, haplorhines may have minimized their
olfactory loss by redistributing olfactory mucosa on non-turbinal surfaces. Our
findings also imply that airflow patterns in the olfactory region differ among
primates.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.23029 
PMID: 25312367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

