

1351. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:3-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.08.014. Epub 2014 Sep
27.

Brain-mapping projects using the common marmoset.

Okano H(1), Mitra P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Brain Science Institute RIKEN,
2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan; Department of Physiology, Keio
University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan. 
Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.
(2)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, NY 11724, United 
States.

Globally, there is an increasing interest in brain-mapping projects, including
the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN)
Initiative project in the USA, the Human Brain Project (HBP) in Europe, and the
Brain Mapping by Integrated Neurotechnologies for Disease Studies (Brain/MINDS)
project in Japan. These projects aim to map the structure and function of
neuronal circuits to ultimately understand the vast complexity of the human
brain. Brain/MINDS is focused on structural and functional mapping of the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain. This non-human primate has numerous
advantages for brain mapping, including a well-developed frontal cortex and a
compact brain size, as well as the availability of transgenic technologies. In
the present review article, we discuss strategies for structural and functional
mapping of the marmoset brain and the relation of the common marmoset to other
animals models.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.08.014 
PMID: 25264372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1352. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Feb 1;523(2):313-34. doi: 10.1002/cne.23683. Epub 2014 Oct
15.

Analysis of bipolar and amacrine populations in marmoset retina.

Weltzien F(1), Percival KA, Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000, Australia.

About 15 parallel ganglion cell pathways transmit visual signals to the brain,
but the interneuron (bipolar and amacrine) populations providing input to
ganglion cells remain poorly understood in primate retina. We carried out a
quantitative analysis of the inner nuclear layer in the retina of the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Vertical Vibratome sections along the horizontal meridian
were processed with immunohistochemical markers. Image stacks were taken with a
confocal microscope, and densities of cell populations were determined. The
density of flat midget bipolar cells fell from 15,746 cells/mm(2) at 1 mm (8 deg)
to 7,827 cells/mm(2) at 3 mm (25 deg). The rod bipolar cell density fell from
8,640 cells/mm(2) at 1 mm to 4,278 cells/mm(2) at 3 mm, but the ratio of the two 
bipolar cell types did not change with eccentricity. The amacrine cell density
ranged from 30,000 cells/mm(2) at 8 deg to less than 15,000 cells/mm(2) at 25
deg, but throughout the retina, the ratio of glycinergic to γ-aminobutyric acid
(GABA)ergic to amacrine cells remained relatively constant. The fractions of rod 
bipolar, cone bipolar, amacrine, Müller, and horizontal cells of all cells in the
inner nuclear layer were comparable in central and peripheral retina. Marmosets
had lower proportions of midget bipolar and rod bipolar in comparison with
macaque. These differences were correlated with differences in rod and cone
densities between the two species and did not reflect fundamental differences in 
the wiring between the two species.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23683 
PMID: 25262625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

