

1352. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Feb 1;523(2):313-34. doi: 10.1002/cne.23683. Epub 2014 Oct
15.

Analysis of bipolar and amacrine populations in marmoset retina.

Weltzien F(1), Percival KA, Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000, Australia.

About 15 parallel ganglion cell pathways transmit visual signals to the brain,
but the interneuron (bipolar and amacrine) populations providing input to
ganglion cells remain poorly understood in primate retina. We carried out a
quantitative analysis of the inner nuclear layer in the retina of the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Vertical Vibratome sections along the horizontal meridian
were processed with immunohistochemical markers. Image stacks were taken with a
confocal microscope, and densities of cell populations were determined. The
density of flat midget bipolar cells fell from 15,746 cells/mm(2) at 1 mm (8 deg)
to 7,827 cells/mm(2) at 3 mm (25 deg). The rod bipolar cell density fell from
8,640 cells/mm(2) at 1 mm to 4,278 cells/mm(2) at 3 mm, but the ratio of the two 
bipolar cell types did not change with eccentricity. The amacrine cell density
ranged from 30,000 cells/mm(2) at 8 deg to less than 15,000 cells/mm(2) at 25
deg, but throughout the retina, the ratio of glycinergic to γ-aminobutyric acid
(GABA)ergic to amacrine cells remained relatively constant. The fractions of rod 
bipolar, cone bipolar, amacrine, Müller, and horizontal cells of all cells in the
inner nuclear layer were comparable in central and peripheral retina. Marmosets
had lower proportions of midget bipolar and rod bipolar in comparison with
macaque. These differences were correlated with differences in rod and cone
densities between the two species and did not reflect fundamental differences in 
the wiring between the two species.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23683 
PMID: 25262625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1353. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 26;9(9):e107911. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107911.
eCollection 2014.

Encapsulating non-human primate multipotent stromal cells in alginate via high
voltage for cell-based therapies and cryopreservation.

Gryshkov O(1), Pogozhykh D(1), Hofmann N(1), Pogozhykh O(2), Mueller T(2),
Glasmacher B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover, Hannover,
Germany.
(2)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Alginate cell-based therapy requires further development focused on clinical
application. To assess engraftment, risk of mutations and therapeutic benefit
studies should be performed in an appropriate non-human primate model, such as
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). In this work we encapsulated amnion
derived multipotent stromal cells (MSCs) from Callithrix jacchus in defined size 
alginate beads using a high voltage technique. Our results indicate that i)
alginate-cell mixing procedure and cell concentration do not affect the diameter 
of alginate beads, ii) encapsulation of high cell numbers (up to 10×106 cells/ml)
can be performed in alginate beads utilizing high voltage and iii) high voltage
(15-30 kV) does not alter the viability, proliferation and differentiation
capacity of MSCs post-encapsulation compared with alginate encapsulated cells
produced by the traditional air-flow method. The consistent results were obtained
over the period of 7 days of encapsulated MSCs culture and after cryopreservation
utilizing a slow cooling procedure (1 K/min). The results of this work show that 
high voltage encapsulation can further be maximized to develop cell-based
therapies with alginate beads in a non-human primate model towards human
application.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107911 
PMCID: PMC4178041
PMID: 25259731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

