

1353. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 26;9(9):e107911. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107911.
eCollection 2014.

Encapsulating non-human primate multipotent stromal cells in alginate via high
voltage for cell-based therapies and cryopreservation.

Gryshkov O(1), Pogozhykh D(1), Hofmann N(1), Pogozhykh O(2), Mueller T(2),
Glasmacher B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover, Hannover,
Germany.
(2)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Alginate cell-based therapy requires further development focused on clinical
application. To assess engraftment, risk of mutations and therapeutic benefit
studies should be performed in an appropriate non-human primate model, such as
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). In this work we encapsulated amnion
derived multipotent stromal cells (MSCs) from Callithrix jacchus in defined size 
alginate beads using a high voltage technique. Our results indicate that i)
alginate-cell mixing procedure and cell concentration do not affect the diameter 
of alginate beads, ii) encapsulation of high cell numbers (up to 10×106 cells/ml)
can be performed in alginate beads utilizing high voltage and iii) high voltage
(15-30 kV) does not alter the viability, proliferation and differentiation
capacity of MSCs post-encapsulation compared with alginate encapsulated cells
produced by the traditional air-flow method. The consistent results were obtained
over the period of 7 days of encapsulated MSCs culture and after cryopreservation
utilizing a slow cooling procedure (1 K/min). The results of this work show that 
high voltage encapsulation can further be maximized to develop cell-based
therapies with alginate beads in a non-human primate model towards human
application.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107911 
PMCID: PMC4178041
PMID: 25259731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1354. Brain Behav Evol. 2014;84(2):93-102. doi: 10.1159/000365346. Epub 2014 Sep 20.

Convergent evolution of vocal cooperation without convergent evolution of brain
size.

Borjon JI(1), Ghazanfar AA.

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J., USA.

One pragmatic underlying successful vocal communication is the ability to take
turns. Taking turns - a form of cooperation - facilitates the transmission of
signals by reducing the amount of their overlap. This allows vocalizations to be 
better heard. Until recently, non-human primates were not thought of as
particularly cooperative, especially in the vocal domain. We recently
demonstrated that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World
primate species, take turns when they exchange vocalizations with both related
and unrelated conspecifics. As the common marmoset is distantly related to humans
(and there is no documented evidence that Old World primates exhibit vocal turn
taking), we argue that this ability arose as an instance of convergent evolution,
and is part of a suite of prosocial behavioral tendencies. Such behaviors seem to
be, at least in part, the outcome of the cooperative breeding strategy adopted by
both humans and marmosets. Importantly, this suite of shared behaviors occurs
without correspondence in encephalization. Marmoset vocal turn taking
demonstrates that a large brain size and complex cognitive machinery is not
needed for vocal cooperation to occur. Consistent with this idea, the temporal
structure of marmoset vocal exchanges can be described in terms of coupled
oscillator dynamics, similar to quantitative descriptions of human conversations.
We propose a simple neural circuit mechanism that may account for these dynamics 
and, at its core, involves vocalization-induced reductions of arousal. Such a
mechanism may underlie the evolution of vocal turn taking in both marmoset
monkeys and humans.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000365346 
PMCID: PMC7592170
PMID: 25247613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

