

1356. Gigascience. 2014 Sep 19;3:14. doi: 10.1186/2047-217X-3-14. eCollection 2014.

De novo assembly of the common marmoset transcriptome from NextGen mRNA
sequences.

Maudhoo MD(1), Ren D(2), Gradnigo JS(3), Gibbs RM(1), Lubker AC(1), Moriyama
EN(3), French JA(4), Norgren RB Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Cell Biology and Anatomy, University of Nebraska
Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska 68198, USA.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska, Omaha, USA ; Key Laboratory for Animal Biotechnology of Jiangxi
Province and the Ministry of Agriculture of China, Jiangxi Agricultural
University, Nanchang 330045, China.
(3)School of Biological Sciences & Center for Plant Science Innovation,
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 403 Manter Hall, Lincoln, Nebraska 68588-0118,
USA.
(4)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska, Omaha, USA.

BACKGROUND: Nonhuman primates are important for both biomedical studies and
understanding human evolution. Although research in these areas has mostly
focused on Old World primates, such as the rhesus macaque, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate, offers important advantages in
comparison to other primates, such as an accelerated lifespan. To conduct Next
Generation expression studies or to study primate evolution, a high quality
annotation of the marmoset genome is required. The availability of marmoset
transcriptome data from five tissues, including both raw sequences and assembled 
transcripts, will aid in the annotation of the newly released marmoset assembly.
FINDINGS: RNA WAS EXTRACTED FROM FIVE TISSUES: skeletal muscle, bladder and
hippocampus from a male common marmoset, and cerebral cortex and cerebellum from 
a female common marmoset. All five RNA samples were sequenced on the Illumina
HiSeq 2000 platform. Sequences were deposited in the NCBI Sequence Read Archive. 
Transcripts were assembled, annotated and deposited in the NCBI Transcriptome
Shotgun Assembly database.
CONCLUSIONS: We have provided a high quality annotation of 51,163 transcripts
with full-length coding sequence. This set represented a total of 10,833 unique
genes. In addition to providing empirical support for the existence of these
10,833 genes, we also provide sequence information for 2,422 genes that were not 
previously identified in the Ensembl annotation of the marmoset genome.

DOI: 10.1186/2047-217X-3-14 
PMCID: PMC4169894
PMID: 25243066 


1357. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:47-61. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.004. Epub 2014 Sep
19.

Representation of central and peripheral vision in the primate cerebral cortex:
Insights from studies of the marmoset brain.

Yu HH(1), Chaplin TA(2), Rosa MG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, 
Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. Electronic address:
hsin-hao.yu@monash.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Monash Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, 
Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia; Monash Vision Group, Monash
University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

How the visual field is represented by neurons in the cerebral cortex is one of
the most basic questions in visual neuroscience. However, research to date has
focused heavily on the small part of the visual field within, and immediately
surrounding the fovea. Studies on the cortical representation of the full visual 
field in the primate brain are still scarce. We have been investigating this
issue with electrophysiological and anatomical methods, taking advantage of the
small and lissencephalic marmoset brain, which allows easy access to the
representation of the full visual field in many cortical areas. This review
summarizes our main findings to date, and relates the results to a broader
question: is the peripheral visual field processed in a similar manner to the
central visual field, but with lower spatial acuity? Given the organization of
the visual cortex, the issue can be addressed by asking: (1) Is visual
information processed in the same way within a single cortical area? and (2) Are 
different cortical areas specialized for different parts of the visual field? The
electrophysiological data from the primary visual cortex indicate that many
aspects of spatiotemporal computation are remarkably similar across the visual
field, although subtle variations are detectable. Our anatomical and
electrophysiological studies of the extrastriate cortex, on the other hand,
suggest that visual processing in the far peripheral visual field is likely to
involve a distinct network of specialized cortical areas, located in the depths
of the calcarine sulcus and interhemispheric fissure.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.004 
PMID: 25242578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

