

1357. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:47-61. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.004. Epub 2014 Sep
19.

Representation of central and peripheral vision in the primate cerebral cortex:
Insights from studies of the marmoset brain.

Yu HH(1), Chaplin TA(2), Rosa MG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, 
Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. Electronic address:
hsin-hao.yu@monash.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Monash Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia;
Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, 
Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia; Monash Vision Group, Monash
University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

How the visual field is represented by neurons in the cerebral cortex is one of
the most basic questions in visual neuroscience. However, research to date has
focused heavily on the small part of the visual field within, and immediately
surrounding the fovea. Studies on the cortical representation of the full visual 
field in the primate brain are still scarce. We have been investigating this
issue with electrophysiological and anatomical methods, taking advantage of the
small and lissencephalic marmoset brain, which allows easy access to the
representation of the full visual field in many cortical areas. This review
summarizes our main findings to date, and relates the results to a broader
question: is the peripheral visual field processed in a similar manner to the
central visual field, but with lower spatial acuity? Given the organization of
the visual cortex, the issue can be addressed by asking: (1) Is visual
information processed in the same way within a single cortical area? and (2) Are 
different cortical areas specialized for different parts of the visual field? The
electrophysiological data from the primary visual cortex indicate that many
aspects of spatiotemporal computation are remarkably similar across the visual
field, although subtle variations are detectable. Our anatomical and
electrophysiological studies of the extrastriate cortex, on the other hand,
suggest that visual processing in the far peripheral visual field is likely to
involve a distinct network of specialized cortical areas, located in the depths
of the calcarine sulcus and interhemispheric fissure.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.004 
PMID: 25242578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:8-19. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.003. Epub 2014 Sep 
19.

Marmosets as model species in neuroscience and evolutionary anthropology.

Burkart JM(1), Finkenwirth C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich - Irchel,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
Judith.Burkart@aim.uzh.ch.
(2)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich - Irchel,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

Marmosets are increasingly used as model species by both neuroscientists and
evolutionary anthropologists, but with a different rationale for doing so.
Whereas neuroscientists stress that marmosets share many cognitive traits with
humans due to common descent, anthropologists stress those traits shared with
marmosets - and callitrichid monkeys in general - due to convergent evolution, as
a consequence of the cooperative breeding system that characterizes both humans
and callitrichids. Similarities in socio-cognitive abilities due to convergence, 
rather than homology, raise the question whether these similarities also extend
to the proximate regulatory mechanisms, which is particularly relevant for
neuroscientific investigations. In this review, we first provide an overview of
the convergent adaptations to cooperative breeding at the psychological and
cognitive level in primates, which bear important implications for our
understanding of human cognitive evolution. In the second part, we zoom in on two
of these convergent adaptations, proactive prosociality and social learning, and 
compare their proximate regulation in marmosets and humans with regard to
oxytocin and cognitive top down regulation. Our analysis suggests considerable
similarity in these regulatory mechanisms presumably because the convergent
traits emerged due to small motivational changes that define how pre-existing
cognitive mechanisms are quantitatively combined. This finding reconciles the
prima facie contradictory rationale for using marmosets as high priority model
species in neuroscience and anthropology.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.09.003 
PMID: 25242577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

