

1360. Mol Hum Reprod. 2015 Jan;21(1):66-80. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gau088. Epub 2014 Sep
18.

Primordial germ cell development in the marmoset monkey as revealed by
pluripotency factor expression: suggestion of a novel model of embryonic germ
cell translocation.

Aeckerle N(1), Drummer C(1), Debowski K(1), Viebahn C(2), Behr R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center - Leibniz Institute for Primate 
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Center of Anatomy, University of
Göttingen, Kreuzbergring 36, 37075 Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center - Leibniz Institute for Primate 
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany rbehr@dpz.eu.

Erratum in
    Mol Hum Reprod. 2015 Jun;21(6):552.

Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are the embryonic progenitors of sperm and egg
cells. Mammalian PGCs are thought to actively migrate from the yolk sac endoderm 
over long distances across the embryo to reach the somatic genital ridges. The
general principles of mammalian PGC development were discovered in mice. In
contrast, little is known about PGC development in primates due to extremely
limited access to primate embryos. Here, we analyzed 12 well preserved marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) embryos covering the phase from PGC emergence in the 
endoderm to the formation of the sexually differentiated gonad (embryonic day (E)
50 to E95). We show using immunohistochemistry that the pluripotency factors
OCT4A and NANOG specifically mark PGCs throughout the period studied. In
contrast, SALL4 and LIN28 were first expressed ubiquitously and only later
down-regulated in somatic tissues. We further show, for the first time, that PGCs
are located in the endoderm in E50 embryos in close spatial proximity to the
prospective genital ridge, making a long-range migration of PGCs dispensable. At 
E65, PGCs are already present in the primitive gonad, while significantly later
embryonic stages still exhibit PGCs at their original endodermal site, revealing 
a wide spatio-temporal window of PGC distribution. Our findings challenge the
'dogma' of active long-range PGC migration from the endoderm to the gonads. We
therefore favor an alternative model based primarily on passive translocation of 
PGCs from the mesenchyme that surrounds the gut to the prospective gonad through 
the intercalar expansion of mesenchymal tissue which contains the PGCs. In
summary, we (i) show differential pluripotency factor expression during primate
embryo development and (ii) provide a schematic model for embryonic PGC
translocation.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gau088 
PMCID: PMC4275041
PMID: 25237007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1361. Am J Primatol. 2015 Mar;77(3):264-70. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22342. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Long-term fidelity of foraging techniques in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Gunhold T(1), Range F, Huber L, Bugnyar T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

The formation of behavioral traditions has been considered as one of the main
building blocks of culture. Numerous studies on social learning in different
animal species provide evidence for their capability of successful transmission
of information. However, questions concerning the memory and maintenance of this 
information have received comparably little attention. After the innovation and
initial spread of a novel behavior, the behavior should stabilize and be
maintained over time. Otherwise, the behavioral pattern might collapse and no
tradition formation would be possible. The aim of this study was to investigate
long-term preferences in a two-action manipulation task in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). Three captive family groups (23 individuals in total) were 
trained on one of two possible techniques to open a wooden box and gain access to
a food reward, by either pulling or pushing a flap door. The training phase took 
place in a family group setting, while the test phase was conducted individually.
Although the subjects could experience the alternative technique during the test 
sessions, the majority preferentially used the technique learned in the group
setting. Moreover, the subjects were re-tested six times over a period of more
than four years, in order to examine the fidelity of their preferences. The
longest break without exposure the task lasted for 3.5 years. In all tests, the
marmosets showed a similar preference as in the first test block shortly after
the training. To our knowledge, this is the first lab study that experimentally
demonstrates memory and fidelity of experimentally seeded information in a
manipulation task over a time period of several years, supporting the assumption 
that socially learned foraging techniques can lead to relatively stable
behavioral traditions.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22342 
PMCID: PMC4371577
PMID: 25231356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

