

1362. Am J Primatol. 2015 Feb;77(2):222-8. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22324. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Exchanging grooming, but not tolerance and aggression in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Campennì M(1), Manciocco A, Vitale A, Schino G.

Author information: 
(1)Reparto di Neuroscienze Comportamentali, Dipartimento di Biologia Cellulare e 
Neuroscienze, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy; Stockholm Resilience
Centre, Stockholms Universitet, Stockholm, Sweden.

In this study, we investigated the reciprocal exchanges of grooming, tolerance
and reduced aggression in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a cooperatively 
breeding primate whose groups are typically characterized by uniformly high
genetic relatedness and high interdependency between group members. Both partner 
control and partner choice processes played a role in the reciprocal exchanges of
grooming. In contrast, we did not find any evidence of reciprocity between
grooming and tolerance over a preferred food source or between grooming and
reduced aggression. Thus, reciprocity seems to play a variable role in the
exchange of cooperative behaviors in marmosets.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22324 
PMID: 25230834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1363. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2014 Sep 11;4(12):a018564. doi:
10.1101/cshperspect.a018564.

Modeling tuberculosis in nonhuman primates.

Scanga CA(1), Flynn JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261.

Nonhuman primates have emerged as an excellent model of human tuberculosis, in
large part because they recapitulate the full spectrum of infection outcome and
pathology seen in humans. Several variables inherent to the nonhuman primate
models of tuberculosis are discussed in this review, including the monkey
species, Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains, and routes of infection, all of
which can influence the model to be chosen for various studies. New technologies 
for studying the microbiology, immunology, and pathogenesis of tuberculosis in
nonhuman primates have greatly expanded the capabilities of this model for basic 
and translational studies, including the development and testing of new treatment
and prevention strategies for tuberculosis.

Copyright © 2014 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a018564 
PMCID: PMC4292094
PMID: 25213189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

