

1363. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2014 Sep 11;4(12):a018564. doi:
10.1101/cshperspect.a018564.

Modeling tuberculosis in nonhuman primates.

Scanga CA(1), Flynn JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261.

Nonhuman primates have emerged as an excellent model of human tuberculosis, in
large part because they recapitulate the full spectrum of infection outcome and
pathology seen in humans. Several variables inherent to the nonhuman primate
models of tuberculosis are discussed in this review, including the monkey
species, Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains, and routes of infection, all of
which can influence the model to be chosen for various studies. New technologies 
for studying the microbiology, immunology, and pathogenesis of tuberculosis in
nonhuman primates have greatly expanded the capabilities of this model for basic 
and translational studies, including the development and testing of new treatment
and prevention strategies for tuberculosis.

Copyright Â© 2014 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a018564 
PMCID: PMC4292094
PMID: 25213189  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. Methods Mol Biol. 2016;1304:171-86. doi: 10.1007/7651_2014_113.

Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis in Marmosets.

Jagessar SA(1), Dijkman K, Dunham J, 't Hart BA, Kap YS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, 3306, 2280
GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands, jagessar@bprc.nl.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common marmoset, a
small-bodied Neotropical primate, is a well-known and validated animal model for 
multiple sclerosis (MS). This model can be used for exploratory research, i.e.,
investigating the pathogenic mechanisms involved in MS, and applied research,
testing the efficacy of new potential drugs.In this chapter, we will describe a
method to induce EAE in the marmoset. In addition, we will explain the most
common immunological techniques involved in the marmoset EAE research, namely
isolation of mononuclear cells (MNC) from peripheral blood and lymphoid tissue,
assaying T cell proliferation by thymidine incorporation, MNC phenotyping by flow
cytometry, antibody measurement by ELISA, generation of B cell lines and
antigen-specific T cell lines, and assaying cytotoxic T cells.

DOI: 10.1007/7651_2014_113 
PMID: 25208751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

