

1367. Biol Lett. 2014 Sep;10(9). pii: 20140439. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0439.

Video demonstrations seed alternative problem-solving techniques in wild common
marmosets.

Gunhold T(1), Whiten A(2), Bugnyar T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14,
A-1090 Vienna, Austria tina.gunhold@univie.ac.at.
(2)Centre for Social Learning and Cognitive Evolution, School of Psychology and
Neuroscience, University of St Andrews, St Andrews, KY16 9JU, UK.
(3)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14,
A-1090 Vienna, Austria.

Studies of social learning and tradition formation under field conditions have
recently gained momentum, but suffer from the limited control of socio-ecological
factors thought to be responsible for transmission patterns. The use of
artificial visual stimuli is a potentially powerful tool to overcome some of
these problems. Here, in a field experiment, we used video images of unfamiliar
conspecifics performing virtual demonstrations of foraging techniques. We tested 
12 family groups of wild common marmosets. Six groups received video
demonstrations (footage of conspecifics either pulling a drawer open or pushing a
lid upwards, in an 'artificial fruit'); the other six groups served as controls
(exposed to a static image of a conspecific next to the fruit). Subjects in video
groups were more manipulative and successful in opening the fruit than controls; 
they were also more likely to use the technique they had witnessed and thus could
serve as live models for other family members. To our knowledge, this is the
first study that used video demonstrations in the wild and demonstrated the
potent force of social learning, even from unfamiliar conspecifics, under field
conditions.

© 2014 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0439 
PMCID: PMC4190960
PMID: 25187646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2014 Dec;155(4):522-36. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22605. Epub 2014
Sep 3.

Hybridization effects and genetic diversity of the common and black-tufted
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata) mitochondrial control
region.

Malukiewicz J(1), Boere V, Fuzessy LF, Grativol AD, French JA, de Oliveira e
Silva I, Pereira LC, Ruiz-Miranda CR, Valença YM, Stone AC.

Author information: 
(1)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
AZ, 85287.

Erratum in
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2015 Sep;158(1):173.

Hybridization is continually documented in primates, but effects of natural and
anthropogenic hybridization on biodiversity are still unclear and differentiating
between these contexts remains challenging in regards to primate evolution and
conservation. Here, we examine hybridization effects on the mitochondrial DNA
(mtDNA) control region of Callithrix marmosets, which provide a unique glimpse
into interspecific mating under distinct anthropogenic and natural conditions.
DNA was sampled from 40 marmosets along a 50-km transect from a previously
uncharacterized hybrid zone in NE Brazil between the ranges of Callithrix jacchus
and Callithrix penicillata. DNA was also collected from 46 marmosets along a
30-km transect in a hybrid zone in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil, where exotic
marmosets appeared in the 1980s. Combining Callithrix DNA sampled inside and
outside of these hybrid zones, phylogenetic and network analyses show C. jacchus 
and C. penicillata being parental species to sampled hybrids. We expand limited
Callithrix population genetics work by describing mtDNA diversity and demographic
history of these parental species. We show ancient population expansion in C.
jacchus and historically constant population size in C. penicillata, with the
latter being more genetically diverse than the former. The natural hybrid zone
contained higher genetic diversity relative to the anthropogenic zone. While our 
data suggest hybrid swarm formation within the anthropogenic zone due to removed 
physical reproductive barriers, this pattern is not seen in the natural hybrid
zone. These results suggest different genetic dynamics within natural and
anthropogenic hybridization contexts that carry important implications for
primate evolution and conservation.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22605 
PMID: 25186076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

