

1368. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2014 Dec;155(4):522-36. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22605. Epub 2014
Sep 3.

Hybridization effects and genetic diversity of the common and black-tufted
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata) mitochondrial control
region.

Malukiewicz J(1), Boere V, Fuzessy LF, Grativol AD, French JA, de Oliveira e
Silva I, Pereira LC, Ruiz-Miranda CR, Valença YM, Stone AC.

Author information: 
(1)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
AZ, 85287.

Erratum in
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2015 Sep;158(1):173.

Hybridization is continually documented in primates, but effects of natural and
anthropogenic hybridization on biodiversity are still unclear and differentiating
between these contexts remains challenging in regards to primate evolution and
conservation. Here, we examine hybridization effects on the mitochondrial DNA
(mtDNA) control region of Callithrix marmosets, which provide a unique glimpse
into interspecific mating under distinct anthropogenic and natural conditions.
DNA was sampled from 40 marmosets along a 50-km transect from a previously
uncharacterized hybrid zone in NE Brazil between the ranges of Callithrix jacchus
and Callithrix penicillata. DNA was also collected from 46 marmosets along a
30-km transect in a hybrid zone in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil, where exotic
marmosets appeared in the 1980s. Combining Callithrix DNA sampled inside and
outside of these hybrid zones, phylogenetic and network analyses show C. jacchus 
and C. penicillata being parental species to sampled hybrids. We expand limited
Callithrix population genetics work by describing mtDNA diversity and demographic
history of these parental species. We show ancient population expansion in C.
jacchus and historically constant population size in C. penicillata, with the
latter being more genetically diverse than the former. The natural hybrid zone
contained higher genetic diversity relative to the anthropogenic zone. While our 
data suggest hybrid swarm formation within the anthropogenic zone due to removed 
physical reproductive barriers, this pattern is not seen in the natural hybrid
zone. These results suggest different genetic dynamics within natural and
anthropogenic hybridization contexts that carry important implications for
primate evolution and conservation.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22605 
PMID: 25186076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1369. Behav Processes. 2014 Sep;107:163-6. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2014.08.021. Epub 2014
Aug 28.

Consumption of a highly palatable food induces a lasting place-conditioning
memory in marmoset monkeys.

Duarte RB(1), Patrono E(2), Borges AC(3), César AA(1), Tomaz C(1), Ventura R(4), 
Gasbarri A(2), Puglisi-Allegra S(4), Barros M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Department of Applied Clinical and Biotechnological Sciences, University of
L'Aquila, 67100 L'Aquila, Italy; Santa Lucia Foundation IRCCS, via del Fosso di
Fiorano 65, 00143 Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(4)Santa Lucia Foundation IRCCS, via del Fosso di Fiorano 65, 00143 Rome, Italy; 
Department of Psychology and Research Center "Daniel Bovet", Sapienza University,
via dei Marsi 78, 00185 Rome, Italy.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil. Electronic address:
mbarros@unb.br.

Highly palatible foods may induce addiction-related behaviors. However, this has 
yet to be established in non-human primates. Therefore, we evaluated whether
marmoset monkeys (Calllithrix penicillata) acquire a conditioned-place-preference
(CPP) for chocolate and if this response is detectable after a 24-h and 15-day
period. Subjects were first habituated to a two-compartment CPP box and then
randomly assigned to a chocolate or control group. Thereafter, they were given
access to only one compartment during daily 15-min conditionings, held on six
consecutive days. On each trial, the chocolate group received pieces of chocolate
(50g) in this context, whereas controls were not given a food reward. Marmosets
were subsequently tested for preferring this (food) paired context after a 24-h
and 15-day interval. During conditioning, individual foraging and the amount of
chocolate ingested by each pair of the chocolate group remained constant.
However, compared to pre-CPP levels, the time spent inside/in contact with the
conditioned compartment increased significantly, while the latency to first entry
decreased on both post-CPP intervals. For controls, the parameters remained
unaltered. Thus, chocolate induced a persistent CPP response-an aspect usually
associated with drug-related rewards.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2014.08.021 
PMID: 25175712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

