

1370. J Immunol Res. 2014;2014:913632. doi: 10.1155/2014/913632. Epub 2014 Jul 22.

Exploring the innate immunological response of an alternative nonhuman primate
model of infectious disease; the common marmoset.

Nelson M(1), Loveday M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Science Department, DSTL, Porton Down, Salisbury SP4 0JQ, UK.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is increasingly being utilised as a
nonhuman primate model for human disease, ranging from autoimmune to infectious
disease. In order to fully exploit these models, meaningful comparison to the
human host response is necessary. Commercially available reagents, primarily
targeted to human cells, were utilised to assess the phenotype and activation
status of key immune cell types and cytokines in naive and infected animals.
Single cell suspensions of blood, spleen, and lung were examined. Generally, the 
phenotype of cells was comparable between humans and marmosets, with
approximately 63% of all lymphocytes in the blood of marmosets being T cells, 25%
B-cells, and 12% NK cells. The percentage of neutrophils in marmoset blood were
more similar to human values than mouse values. Comparison of the activation
status of cells following experimental systemic or inhalational infection
exhibited different trends in different tissues, most obvious in cell types
active in the innate immune response. This work significantly enhances the
ability to understand the immune response in these animals and fortifies their
use as models of infectious disease.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/913632 
PMCID: PMC4129158
PMID: 25170519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1371. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Nov 1;274:349-54. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.08.032. Epub 2014
Aug 25.

Effects of lurasidone on ketamine-induced joint visual attention dysfunction as a
possible disease model of autism spectrum disorders in common marmosets.

Nakako T(1), Murai T(1), Ikejiri M(1), Hashimoto T(1), Kotani M(1), Matsumoto
K(1), Manabe S(1), Ogi Y(1), Konoike N(2), Nakamura K(2), Ikeda K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma 
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan.
(2)Department of Behavioral and Brain Sciences, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto
University, 41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(3)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma 
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan. Electronic address:
kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Infants with autism have difficulties performing joint visual attention (JVA),
defined as following another person's pointing gesture and gaze. Some non-human
primates (NHPs) can also perform JVA. Most preclinical research on autism
spectrum disorders (ASD) has used rodents as animal models of this social
interaction disorder. However, models using rodents fail to capture the
complexity of social interactions that are disrupted in ASD. Therefore, JVA
impairment in NHPs might be a more useful model of ASD. The aim of this study was
to develop an appropriate and convenient ASD model with common marmosets. We
first tested whether marmosets were capable of performing JVA. Subsequently, we
administered ketamine, an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, to
induce JVA impairment and investigated the effects of lurasidone, a newer
antipsychotic agent, on the JVA impairments. An apparatus was constructed using 4
white boxes, which were attached to the corners of a frame. All boxes had a
hinged door, and marmosets could easily obtain a reward by pushing the door. An
experimenter pointed and gazed at the boxes to inform the marmosets which box
contained the reward. Their behavior was scored according to the number of
incorrect choices. The JVA score was significantly higher in the cued vs. uncued 
tasks. Ketamine significantly decreased the JVA score, but lurasidone
significantly reversed this effect. These findings suggest that this experimental
system could be a useful animal model of neuropsychiatric disorders characterized
by NMDA-receptor signaling, including ASD, and that lurasidone might be effective
for some aspects of ASD.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.08.032 
PMID: 25169254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

