

1371. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Nov 1;274:349-54. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.08.032. Epub 2014
Aug 25.

Effects of lurasidone on ketamine-induced joint visual attention dysfunction as a
possible disease model of autism spectrum disorders in common marmosets.

Nakako T(1), Murai T(1), Ikejiri M(1), Hashimoto T(1), Kotani M(1), Matsumoto
K(1), Manabe S(1), Ogi Y(1), Konoike N(2), Nakamura K(2), Ikeda K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma 
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan.
(2)Department of Behavioral and Brain Sciences, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto
University, 41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(3)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma 
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan. Electronic address:
kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Infants with autism have difficulties performing joint visual attention (JVA),
defined as following another person's pointing gesture and gaze. Some non-human
primates (NHPs) can also perform JVA. Most preclinical research on autism
spectrum disorders (ASD) has used rodents as animal models of this social
interaction disorder. However, models using rodents fail to capture the
complexity of social interactions that are disrupted in ASD. Therefore, JVA
impairment in NHPs might be a more useful model of ASD. The aim of this study was
to develop an appropriate and convenient ASD model with common marmosets. We
first tested whether marmosets were capable of performing JVA. Subsequently, we
administered ketamine, an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, to
induce JVA impairment and investigated the effects of lurasidone, a newer
antipsychotic agent, on the JVA impairments. An apparatus was constructed using 4
white boxes, which were attached to the corners of a frame. All boxes had a
hinged door, and marmosets could easily obtain a reward by pushing the door. An
experimenter pointed and gazed at the boxes to inform the marmosets which box
contained the reward. Their behavior was scored according to the number of
incorrect choices. The JVA score was significantly higher in the cued vs. uncued 
tasks. Ketamine significantly decreased the JVA score, but lurasidone
significantly reversed this effect. These findings suggest that this experimental
system could be a useful animal model of neuropsychiatric disorders characterized
by NMDA-receptor signaling, including ASD, and that lurasidone might be effective
for some aspects of ASD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.08.032 
PMID: 25169254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1372. Eur J Pharmacol. 2014 Oct 15;741:304-10. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.08.004. Epub 
2014 Aug 23.

The H3 receptor agonist immepip does not affect l-dopa-induced abnormal
involuntary movements in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats.

Papathanou M(1), Jenner P(1), Iravani M(1), Jackson M(1), Stockwell K(1), Strang 
I(1), Zeng BY(1), McCreary AC(2), Rose S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Biomedical Sciences,
King׳s College London, Hodgkin Building, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(2)Abbott Healthcare B.V., (formerly Solvay Pharmaceuticals Research
Laboratories), Weesp, The Netherlands.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Biomedical Sciences,
King׳s College London, Hodgkin Building, London, SE1 1UL, UK. Electronic address:
sarah.rose@kcl.ac.uk.

The treatment of dyskinesia in Parkinson׳s disease remains poor but H3 receptor
agonists have been suggested as a novel pharmacological approach. We examined the
effects of the H3 agonist, immepip, in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats exhibiting AIMs
(abnormal involuntary movements), a rat analogue of dyskinesia, in response to
l-dopa compared to the known anti-dyskinetic agents amantadine, MK-801 and
8-OHDPAT. We then attempted to extend these studies in to dyskinetic
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treated common marmosets.
Amantadine, MK-801 and 8-OHDPAT all dose-dependently reduced l-dopa-induced
axial, lingual and oral (ALO) AIMs in 6-OHDA-lesioned animals accompanied by a
reduction in contralateral rotation with higher doses of amantadine and MK-801.
By contrast, immepip had no effect on AIMs expression or contralateral rotation. 
In the MPTP-treated common marmoset exhibiting dyskinesia to l-dopa, immepip
alone induced retching and in combination with l-dopa administered subcutaneously
or orally induced the rapid onset of retching and vomiting which was not
controlled by pretreatment with domperidone. Administration of the unrelated H3
agonist, imetit had the same effect. Despite causing negative side-effects, it
appears that both agonists reduced the antiparkinsonian response to l-dopa
resulting in reduced dyskinesia. H3 agonists appear unlikely candidates for the
treatment of dyskinesia in PD based on lack of evidence of efficacy and potential
adverse effects.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.08.004 
PMID: 25160743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

