

1372. Eur J Pharmacol. 2014 Oct 15;741:304-10. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.08.004. Epub 
2014 Aug 23.

The H3 receptor agonist immepip does not affect l-dopa-induced abnormal
involuntary movements in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats.

Papathanou M(1), Jenner P(1), Iravani M(1), Jackson M(1), Stockwell K(1), Strang 
I(1), Zeng BY(1), McCreary AC(2), Rose S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Biomedical Sciences,
King׳s College London, Hodgkin Building, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(2)Abbott Healthcare B.V., (formerly Solvay Pharmaceuticals Research
Laboratories), Weesp, The Netherlands.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Biomedical Sciences,
King׳s College London, Hodgkin Building, London, SE1 1UL, UK. Electronic address:
sarah.rose@kcl.ac.uk.

The treatment of dyskinesia in Parkinson׳s disease remains poor but H3 receptor
agonists have been suggested as a novel pharmacological approach. We examined the
effects of the H3 agonist, immepip, in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats exhibiting AIMs
(abnormal involuntary movements), a rat analogue of dyskinesia, in response to
l-dopa compared to the known anti-dyskinetic agents amantadine, MK-801 and
8-OHDPAT. We then attempted to extend these studies in to dyskinetic
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treated common marmosets.
Amantadine, MK-801 and 8-OHDPAT all dose-dependently reduced l-dopa-induced
axial, lingual and oral (ALO) AIMs in 6-OHDA-lesioned animals accompanied by a
reduction in contralateral rotation with higher doses of amantadine and MK-801.
By contrast, immepip had no effect on AIMs expression or contralateral rotation. 
In the MPTP-treated common marmoset exhibiting dyskinesia to l-dopa, immepip
alone induced retching and in combination with l-dopa administered subcutaneously
or orally induced the rapid onset of retching and vomiting which was not
controlled by pretreatment with domperidone. Administration of the unrelated H3
agonist, imetit had the same effect. Despite causing negative side-effects, it
appears that both agonists reduced the antiparkinsonian response to l-dopa
resulting in reduced dyskinesia. H3 agonists appear unlikely candidates for the
treatment of dyskinesia in PD based on lack of evidence of efficacy and potential
adverse effects.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2014.08.004 
PMID: 25160743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1373. Front Neural Circuits. 2014 Aug 8;8:96. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00096.
eCollection 2014.

A simpler primate brain: the visual system of the marmoset monkey.

Solomon SG(1), Rosa MG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London London, UK.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC Australia ; Monash
Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, VIC Australia ; Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University
Node, Clayton, VIC Australia.

Humans are diurnal primates with high visual acuity at the center of gaze.
Although primates share many similarities in the organization of their visual
centers with other mammals, and even other species of vertebrates, their visual
pathways also show unique features, particularly with respect to the organization
of the cerebral cortex. Therefore, in order to understand some aspects of human
visual function, we need to study non-human primate brains. Which species is the 
most appropriate model? Macaque monkeys, the most widely used non-human primates,
are not an optimal choice in many practical respects. For example, much of the
macaque cerebral cortex is buried within sulci, and is therefore inaccessible to 
many imaging techniques, and the postnatal development and lifespan of macaques
are prohibitively long for many studies of brain maturation, plasticity, and
aging. In these and several other respects the marmoset, a small New World
monkey, represents a more appropriate choice. Here we review the visual pathways 
of the marmoset, highlighting recent work that brings these advantages into
focus, and identify where additional work needs to be done to link marmoset brain
organization to that of macaques and humans. We will argue that the marmoset
monkey provides a good subject for studies of a complex visual system, which will
likely allow an important bridge linking experiments in animal models to humans.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00096 
PMCID: PMC4126041
PMID: 25152716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

