

1379. Brain Struct Funct. 2015 Nov;220(6):3245-58. doi: 10.1007/s00429-014-0853-2. Epub
2014 Jul 27.

Postnatal development of dendritic structure of layer III pyramidal neurons in
the medial prefrontal cortex of marmoset.

Sasaki T(1), Aoi H(1)(2), Oga T(1)(2), Fujita I(2)(3), Ichinohe N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, National Institute of Neuroscience, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira,
Tokyo, 187-8502, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, 1-4 Yamadaoka,
Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.
(3)Center for Information and Neural Networks (CiNet), National Institute of
Information and Communications Technology, Osaka University, 1-4 Yamadaoka,
Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.
(4)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, National Institute of Neuroscience, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira,
Tokyo, 187-8502, Japan. nichino@ncnp.go.jp.

In the primate cerebral cortex, dendritic spines rapidly increase in number after
birth up to infancy or mid-childhood, and then decrease towards adulthood.
Abnormalities in these processes accompany several psychiatric disorders. In this
study, we examined developmental changes of basal dendrites and spines of layer
III pyramidal cells in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of the common
marmoset. The mPFC consists of several areas with distinct features in layer
organization, histochemistry, connections, and, in humans, vulnerability to
psychiatric disorders. We selected three areas for examination: granular
dorsomedial prefrontal (area 8B/9), dysgranular ventromedial prefrontal (area
14r), and agranular anterior cingulate (area 24) cortices. Dendritic field areas,
lengths, number of branching points, and total spine number reached a peak at 2-3
postnatal months in all three areas. However, the profiles of spine formation and
pruning differed across the three areas with different degrees of granularity;
the amount of spine loss from the peak to adulthood was less in areas 24 (33%)
and 14r (29%) than in area 8B/9 (43%). Disturbance of this modest spine pruning
in the less granular cortical areas may lead to an excessive loss of spines
reported for areas 24 and 14r of schizophrenic patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-014-0853-2 
PMID: 25064470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1380. Brain Pathol. 2015 May;25(3):276-86. doi: 10.1111/bpa.12180. Epub 2014 Sep 12.

Increased Meningeal T and Plasma Cell Infiltration is Associated with Early
Subpial Cortical Demyelination in Common Marmosets with Experimental Autoimmune
Encephalomyelitis.

Kramann N(1), Neid K, Menken L, Schlumbohm C, Stadelmann C, Fuchs E, Brück W,
Wegner C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen,
Germany.

Subpial cortical demyelination (SCD) accounts for the greatest proportion of
demyelinated cortex in multiple sclerosis (MS). SCD is already found in biopsy
cases with early MS and in marmosets with experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE), but the pathogenesis of SCD is not well understood. The 
objective of this study was to investigate whether and, if so, which meningeal
inflammatory cells were associated with early SCD in marmosets with EAE.
Immunohistochemistry was performed to analyze brain samples from eight control
animals and eight marmosets immunized with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein.
Meningeal T, B and plasma cells were quantified adjacent to SCD, normal-appearing
EAE cortex (NAC) and control marmoset cortex. SCD areas appeared mostly
hypocellular with low-grade microglial activation. In marmosets with EAE,
meninges adjacent to SCD showed significantly increased T cells paralleled by
elevated plasma cells, but unaltered B cell numbers compared with NAC. The
elevation of meningeal T and plasma cells was a specific finding topographically 
associated with SCD, as the meninges overlying NAC displayed similarly low T, B
and plasma cell numbers as control cortex. These findings suggest that local
meningeal T and plasma cell infiltration contributes to the pathogenesis of SCD
in marmosets with EAE.

© 2014 International Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/bpa.12180 
PMCID: PMC8028918
PMID: 25041171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

