

1380. Brain Pathol. 2015 May;25(3):276-86. doi: 10.1111/bpa.12180. Epub 2014 Sep 12.

Increased Meningeal T and Plasma Cell Infiltration is Associated with Early
Subpial Cortical Demyelination in Common Marmosets with Experimental Autoimmune
Encephalomyelitis.

Kramann N(1), Neid K, Menken L, Schlumbohm C, Stadelmann C, Fuchs E, Brück W,
Wegner C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen,
Germany.

Subpial cortical demyelination (SCD) accounts for the greatest proportion of
demyelinated cortex in multiple sclerosis (MS). SCD is already found in biopsy
cases with early MS and in marmosets with experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE), but the pathogenesis of SCD is not well understood. The 
objective of this study was to investigate whether and, if so, which meningeal
inflammatory cells were associated with early SCD in marmosets with EAE.
Immunohistochemistry was performed to analyze brain samples from eight control
animals and eight marmosets immunized with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein.
Meningeal T, B and plasma cells were quantified adjacent to SCD, normal-appearing
EAE cortex (NAC) and control marmoset cortex. SCD areas appeared mostly
hypocellular with low-grade microglial activation. In marmosets with EAE,
meninges adjacent to SCD showed significantly increased T cells paralleled by
elevated plasma cells, but unaltered B cell numbers compared with NAC. The
elevation of meningeal T and plasma cells was a specific finding topographically 
associated with SCD, as the meninges overlying NAC displayed similarly low T, B
and plasma cell numbers as control cortex. These findings suggest that local
meningeal T and plasma cell infiltration contributes to the pathogenesis of SCD
in marmosets with EAE.

© 2014 International Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/bpa.12180 
PMCID: PMC8028918
PMID: 25041171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1381. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2015 May;70(5):577-87. doi: 10.1093/gerona/glu101.
Epub 2014 Jul 19.

Testing efficacy of administration of the antiaging drug rapamycin in a nonhuman 
primate, the common marmoset.

Tardif S(1), Ross C(2), Bergman P(3), Fernandez E(4), Javors M(3), Salmon A(4),
Spross J(3), Strong R(2), Richardson A(5).

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio. Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas
Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio. tardif@uthscsa.edu.
(2)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio. Department of Arts & Sciences, Texas A&M-San Antonio.
(3)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio.
(4)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center San Antonio. Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center,
South Texas Veteran's Health Care System, San Antonio.
(5)University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center and the Oklahoma City VA Medical
Center.

This report is the first description of dosing procedures, pharmacokinetics,
biochemical action, and general tolerability of the antiaging drug rapamycin in
the common marmoset, a small and short-lived monkey. Eudragit-encapsulated
rapamycin was given orally to trained marmosets in a short-term (3 weeks) and a
long-term (14 months) study. Circulating trough rapamycin levels (mean = 5.2
ng/mL; 1.93-10.73 ng/mL) achieved at roughly 1.0 mg/kg/day was comparable to
those reported in studies of rodents and within the therapeutic range for humans.
Long-term treated animals (6/8) indicated a reduction in mammalian target of
rapamycin complex 1 signaling as noted by a decrease in the phospho rpS6 to total
rpS6 ratio after 2 weeks of treatment. All long-term treated subjects had
detectable concentrations of rapamycin in liver (4.7-19.9 pg/mg) and adipose
tissue (2.2-32.8 pg/mg) with reduced mammalian target of rapamycin signaling in
these tissues. There was no evidence of clinical anemia, fibrotic lung changes,
or mouth ulcers. The observed death rate in the long-term study was as expected
given the animals' ages. The ability to rapidly and reliably dose socially housed
marmosets with an oral form of rapamycin that is well tolerated and that
demonstrates a suppression of the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway leads us 
to conclude that this species offers a viable model for rapamycin testing to
establish safety and efficacy for long-term antiaging intervention.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glu101 
PMCID: PMC4400395
PMID: 25038772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

