

1386. J Biol Regul Homeost Agents. 2014 Apr-Jun;28(2):183-93.

Allogeneic and xenogeneic anti-tumor effect of callithrix jacchus natural killer 
cells is dependent on NKp30 and B7-H6 interaction.

Müller T(1), Schlahsa L(1), Zhang HJ(1), Skaik Y(1), Eiz-Vesper B(1), Immenschuh 
S(1), Blasczyk R(1), Figueiredo C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Natural Killer (NK) cells mount a fast and efficient immune response against
tumor cells and are currently a major focus in the development of anti-cancer
cell-based therapies. Due to major differences between the murine and human NK
cell receptor system, a non-human primate model would be helpful to evaluate the 
efficiency of NK-cell based therapies prior to clinical applications. In humans, 
B7-H6 has been shown to facilitate the elimination of lymphoma cells through the 
interaction with its receptor NKp30. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is 
a new world monkey readily used in biomedical research due to its easy management
and proximity to humans. In this study, we demonstrated the expression of B7-H6
antigen in marmoset B-lymphoblastoid cell lines. In addition, a method was
established to isolate B- or NK-cells from peripheral blood of marmosets with
purities of up to 97%We detected the expression of B7-H6 in lymphoma cells and
for the first time in leukemic blasts of human acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
Marmoset NK cells were shown to lyse marmoset B lymphoblastoid cell line (B-LCL) 
cells by up to 28.4% and human B-LCL cells by up to 20%. This effect was
abrogated when the NK cells were pre-treated with an anti-NKp30 specific
antibody. Also, marmoset NK cells were able to lyse primary leukemic AML cells
and lymphoma cells by up to 8.3 and 20.3%respectively. Stimulation of marmoset NK
cells with recombinant B7-H6 induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and proliferation 
rates. Furthermore, the secretion of IL-1β, IL-8, IFN-γ and TNF-α was
significantly increased upon B7-H6 stimulation. In conclusion, we demonstrated
that non-human primate NK cells have similar mechanisms for the lysis of tumor
cells as human NK cells. Thus, this animal model constitutes a very promising
tool for the development and evaluation of novel NK-cell based therapies.


PMID: 25001651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1387. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:243825. doi: 10.1155/2014/243825. Epub 2014 Jun 2.

Morphological changes in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of aging female marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Engelberth RC(1), Silva KD(1), Azevedo CV(2), Gavioli EC(3), dos Santos JR(4),
Soares JG(5), Nascimento Junior ES(5), Cavalcante JC(5), Costa MS(5), Cavalcante 
JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurochemical Studies, Physiology Department, Biosciences
Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Chronobiology, Physiology Department, Biosciences Center,
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(3)Behavioral Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biophysics and Pharmacology,
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(4)Biology Department, Federal University of Sergipe, Aracaju, SE, Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Morphology Department, Biosciences Center, Federal
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.

The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) are pointed to as the mammals central circadian 
pacemaker. Aged animals show internal time disruption possibly caused by
morphological and neurochemical changes in SCN components. Some studies reported 
changes of neuronal cells and neuroglia in the SCN of rats and nonhuman primates 
during aging. The effects of senescence on morphological aspects in SCN are
important for understanding some alterations in biological rhythms expression.
Therefore, our aim was to perform a comparative study of the morphological
aspects of SCN in adult and aged female marmoset. Morphometric analysis of SCN
was performed using Nissl staining, NeuN-IR, GFAP-IR, and CB-IR. A significant
decrease in the SCN cells staining with Nissl, NeuN, and CB were observed in aged
female marmosets compared to adults, while a significant increase in glial cells 
was found in aged marmosets, thus suggesting compensatory process due to neuronal
loss evoked by aging.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/243825 
PMCID: PMC4060761
PMID: 24987675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

