

1393. J Neurophysiol. 2014 Sep 15;112(6):1421-38. doi: 10.1152/jn.00077.2014. Epub 2014
Jun 11.

Temporal response properties of koniocellular (blue-on and blue-off) cells in
marmoset lateral geniculate nucleus.

Pietersen AN(1), Cheong SK(1), Solomon SG(2), Tailby C(3), Martin PR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Save Sight Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia;
(2)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia;
Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom; and.
(3)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Florey
Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Heidelberg, Australia.
(4)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Save Sight Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; School of Medical Sciences, University
of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; prmartin@physiol.usyd.edu.au.

Visual perception requires integrating signals arriving at different times from
parallel visual streams. For example, signals carried on the phasic-magnocellular
(MC) pathway reach the cerebral cortex pathways some tens of milliseconds before 
signals traveling on the tonic-parvocellular (PC) pathway. Visual latencies of
cells in the koniocellular (KC) pathway have not been specifically studied in
simian primates. Here we compared MC and PC cells to "blue-on" (BON) and
"blue-off" (BOF) KC cells; these cells carry visual signals originating in
short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cones. We made extracellular recordings in the
lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of anesthetized marmosets. We found that BON
visual latencies are 10-20 ms longer than those of PC or MC cells. A small number
of recorded BOF cells (n = 7) had latencies 10-20 ms longer than those of BON
cells. Within all cell groups, latencies of foveal receptive fields (<10°
eccentricity) were longer (by 3-8 ms) than latencies of peripheral receptive
fields (>10°). Latencies of yellow-off inputs to BON cells lagged the blue-on
inputs by up to 30 ms, but no differences in visual latency were seen on
comparing marmosets expressing dichromatic ("red-green color-blind") or
trichromatic color vision phenotype. We conclude that S-cone signals leaving the 
LGN on KC pathways are delayed with respect to signals traveling on PC and MC
pathways. Cortical circuits serving color vision must therefore integrate across 
delays in (red-green) chromatic signals carried by PC cells and (blue-yellow)
signals carried by KC cells.

Copyright © 2014 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00077.2014 
PMID: 24920024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1394. J Gen Virol. 2014 Sep;95(Pt 9):1892-1899. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.066746-0. Epub 2014 
Jun 9.

Evolutionary genetics of genotype H1 measles viruses in China from 1993 to 2012.

Xu S(1), Zhang Y(1), Rivailler P(2), Wang H(1), Ji Y(1), Zhen Z(1), Mao N(1), Li 
C(3), Bellini WJ(2), Xu W(1), Rota PA(2).

Author information: 
(1)WHO Regional Reference Laboratory for Measles for the Western Pacific Region, 
National Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, China Center for
Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 102206, PR China.
(2)Division of Viral Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Shanghai Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shanghai City, PR China.

Virologic surveillance is a critical component of measles management. One of the 
criteria for verification of elimination of endemic measles is genetic analysis
of wild-type viruses to demonstrate lack of an indigenous genotype. Measles is
yet to be eliminated in China, and genotype H1 has been detected continuously
since virologic surveillance was initiated in 1993. Virologic surveillance has
been very active in China, providing a unique opportunity to conduct a detailed
study of the evolution of a single, endemic genotype over a timespan of nearly
two decades. Phylogenetic analysis performed on the 450 nt coding sequence for
the C-terminal 150 amino acids of the nucleoprotein (N-450), fusion (F) gene and 
haemagglutinin (H) gene confirmed the continued circulation of genotype H1
viruses for 19 years. No evidence of selective pressure for the H protein was
found. The substitution rates ranged from 0.75×10(-3) substitutions site(-1)
year(-1) for H to 1.65×10(-3) substitutions site(-1) year(-1) for N-450. The time
of most recent common ancestor (TMRCA) for genotype H1 was estimated as
approximately 1985 (95 % highest probability density, 1979-1989). Finally, the
overall diversity of measles sequences from China decreased from 2005 to 2012,
coincident with a substantial decrease in measles cases. The results suggest that
detailed evolutionary analyses should facilitate the documentation of eventual
measles elimination in China. Moreover, the molecular approaches used in this
study can be applied in other countries approaching measles elimination.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.066746-0 
PMCID: PMC4135087
PMID: 24914068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

