

1396. Vet Pathol. 2015 Mar;52(2):404-13. doi: 10.1177/0300985814537839. Epub 2014 Jun
9.

The common marmoset as a model for the study of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 
and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

Kramer JA(1), Grindley J(2), Crowell AM(3), Makaron L(1), Kohli R(4), Kirby M(4),
Mansfield KG(5), Wachtman LM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Resources, New England Primate Research Center,
Southborough, MA, USA.
(2)Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine, Tufts University, N. Grafton, MA, USA.
(3)University of Notre Dame, South Bend, IN, USA.
(4)Division of Gastroentrology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Cincinnati Children's 
Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(5)Novartis Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Veterinary Resources, New England Primate Research Center,
Southborough, MA, USA Lynn_wachtman@hms.harvard.edu.

Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered the hepatic manifestation 
of metabolic syndrome. The more clinically concerning form of the disease,
nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), is characterized by steatosis, lobular
inflammation, and ballooning degeneration. Here we describe a naturally occurring
syndrome in the common marmoset that recapitulates the pathologic findings
associated with NAFLD/NASH in humans. Hepatomegaly determined to result from
NAFLD was observed in 33 of 183 marmosets. A comprehensive histopathologic
assessment performed in 31 marmosets demonstrated that NAFLD was characterized by
variably sized, Oil Red O staining cytoplasmic vacuoles and observed primarily in
animals with evidence of obesity and insulin resistance. A subset of marmosets
(16 of 31) also demonstrated evidence of NASH characterized by multifocal
inflammation combined with ballooning hepatocellular degeneration. Marmosets with
NASH demonstrated an increase in immunostaining with an antibody targeted against
the human leukocyte antigens (HLA)-DP, HLA-DQ, and HLA-DR compared with marmosets
without NASH (38.89 cells/10× field vs 12.05 cells/10× field, P = .05). In
addition, marmosets with NASH demonstrated increased Ki-67 immunopositive
cellular proliferation compared with those without (5.95 cells/10× field vs 1.53 
cells/10× field, P = .0002). Finally, animals with NASH demonstrated
significantly increased mean circulating serum iron levels (160.47 μg/dl, P =
.008) and an increase in numbers of Prussian blue-positive Kupffer cells (9.28
cells/40× field, P = .005) relative to marmosets without NASH (97.75 μg/dl and
1.87 cells/40×, respectively). This study further characterizes the
histopathology of NAFLD/NASH and suggests that the marmoset may be a valuable
animal model with which to investigate the host and environmental factors
contributing to the progression of NAFLD/ NASH.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985814537839 
PMID: 24913270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1397. J Immunother. 2014 Jul-Aug;37(6):309-20. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000042.

Ligation of CD47 induces G1 arrest in EBV-transformed B cells through ROS
generation, p38 MAPK/JNK activation, and Tap73 upregulation.

Park GB(1), Bang SR, Lee HK, Kim D, Kim S, Kim JK, Kim YS, Hur DY.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Anatomy and Research Center for Tumor Immunology, Inje
University College of Medicine ‡Department of Internal Medicine, Inje University 
Busan Paik Hospital, Busan †Department of Anesthesiology, Inje University Seoul
Paik Hospital §Department of Anesthesiology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan
University, Seoul , Republic of Korea.

CD47 is expressed in normal activated cells as well as in several tumors. It also
has been implicated as having antiangiogenic and antimetastatic properties, but
its roles in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B cells are still not fully
understood. Herein, we report that EBV infection induced CD47 surface expression 
on B cells, and CD47 ligation with anti-CD47 mAb (B6H12) reduced cell
proliferation and induced G1 arrest. CD47-induced G1 arrest was mediated through 
increased cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CDKi) and a simultaneously
decreased CDK/cyclins, and p38 MAPK/JNK activation preceded binding of CDKi-CDK. 
Moreover, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and upregulation of both TAp73
and ER stress sensor proteins were detected after CD47 ligation, and p38
inhibitor SB203580 and JNK inhibitor SP600125 blocked upregulation of TAp73 and
cell cycle arrest. We investigated whether ROS generation is the initial event of
CD47-mediated G1 arrest because ROS scavenger NAC effectively abrogated the
majority of CD47-mediated responses but SB203580 and SP600125 did not block ROS
production. Taken together, we concluded that CD47 ligation on EBV-transformed B 
cells led to G1 arrest by ROS generation and, subsequently, there was p38
MAPK/JNK pathway activation, ER stress triggering, and TAp73 upregulation. Our
findings provide data supporting CD47 as a feasible target for EBV-associated
tumor therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000042 
PMID: 24911792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

