

1397. J Immunother. 2014 Jul-Aug;37(6):309-20. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000042.

Ligation of CD47 induces G1 arrest in EBV-transformed B cells through ROS
generation, p38 MAPK/JNK activation, and Tap73 upregulation.

Park GB(1), Bang SR, Lee HK, Kim D, Kim S, Kim JK, Kim YS, Hur DY.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Anatomy and Research Center for Tumor Immunology, Inje
University College of Medicine ‡Department of Internal Medicine, Inje University 
Busan Paik Hospital, Busan †Department of Anesthesiology, Inje University Seoul
Paik Hospital §Department of Anesthesiology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan
University, Seoul , Republic of Korea.

CD47 is expressed in normal activated cells as well as in several tumors. It also
has been implicated as having antiangiogenic and antimetastatic properties, but
its roles in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B cells are still not fully
understood. Herein, we report that EBV infection induced CD47 surface expression 
on B cells, and CD47 ligation with anti-CD47 mAb (B6H12) reduced cell
proliferation and induced G1 arrest. CD47-induced G1 arrest was mediated through 
increased cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CDKi) and a simultaneously
decreased CDK/cyclins, and p38 MAPK/JNK activation preceded binding of CDKi-CDK. 
Moreover, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and upregulation of both TAp73
and ER stress sensor proteins were detected after CD47 ligation, and p38
inhibitor SB203580 and JNK inhibitor SP600125 blocked upregulation of TAp73 and
cell cycle arrest. We investigated whether ROS generation is the initial event of
CD47-mediated G1 arrest because ROS scavenger NAC effectively abrogated the
majority of CD47-mediated responses but SB203580 and SP600125 did not block ROS
production. Taken together, we concluded that CD47 ligation on EBV-transformed B 
cells led to G1 arrest by ROS generation and, subsequently, there was p38
MAPK/JNK pathway activation, ER stress triggering, and TAp73 upregulation. Our
findings provide data supporting CD47 as a feasible target for EBV-associated
tumor therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000042 
PMID: 24911792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1398. Anim Behav. 2014 May;91(100):79-91.

Memory, transmission and persistence of alternative foraging techniques in wild
common marmosets.

Gunhold T(1), Massen JJ(1), Schiel N(2), Souto A(3), Bugnyar T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(3)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

Experimental studies on traditions in animals have focused almost entirely on the
initial transmission phase in captive populations. We conducted an open diffusion
field experiment with 13 groups of wild common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.
Seven groups contained individuals that were already familiar with the task
('push or pull' box) and thus served as potential models for naïve individuals.
Additionally, in four groups one individual was trained for one of the two
possible techniques and in two control groups no skilled individuals were
present. First, we investigated whether experienced individuals would remember
how to solve the task even after 2 years without exposure and whether they would 
still prefer their learned technique. Second, we tested whether naïve individuals
would learn socially from their skilled family members and, more importantly,
whether they would use the same technique. Third, we conducted several test
blocks to see whether the individual and/or group behaviour would persist over
time. Our results show that wild common marmosets were able to memorize, learn
socially and maintain preferences of foraging techniques. This field experiment
thus reveals a promising approach to studying social learning in the wild and
provides the basis for long-term studies on tradition formation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2014.02.023 
PMCID: PMC4045399
PMID: 24910466 

