

1398. Anim Behav. 2014 May;91(100):79-91.

Memory, transmission and persistence of alternative foraging techniques in wild
common marmosets.

Gunhold T(1), Massen JJ(1), Schiel N(2), Souto A(3), Bugnyar T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(3)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

Experimental studies on traditions in animals have focused almost entirely on the
initial transmission phase in captive populations. We conducted an open diffusion
field experiment with 13 groups of wild common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.
Seven groups contained individuals that were already familiar with the task
('push or pull' box) and thus served as potential models for naïve individuals.
Additionally, in four groups one individual was trained for one of the two
possible techniques and in two control groups no skilled individuals were
present. First, we investigated whether experienced individuals would remember
how to solve the task even after 2 years without exposure and whether they would 
still prefer their learned technique. Second, we tested whether naïve individuals
would learn socially from their skilled family members and, more importantly,
whether they would use the same technique. Third, we conducted several test
blocks to see whether the individual and/or group behaviour would persist over
time. Our results show that wild common marmosets were able to memorize, learn
socially and maintain preferences of foraging techniques. This field experiment
thus reveals a promising approach to studying social learning in the wild and
provides the basis for long-term studies on tradition formation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2014.02.023 
PMCID: PMC4045399
PMID: 24910466 


1399. Front Neural Circuits. 2014 May 19;8:52. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00052.
eCollection 2014.

mRNA expression profile of serotonin receptor subtypes and distribution of
serotonergic terminations in marmoset brain.

Shukla R(1), Watakabe A(1), Yamamori T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology Okazaki, Japan
; Department of Basic Biology, Graduate University for Advanced Studies
(SOKENDAI) Okazaki, Japan.

To better understand serotonin function in the primate brain, we examined the
mRNA expression patterns of all the 13 members of the serotonin receptor (5HTR)
family, by in situ hybridization (ISH) and the distribution of serotonergic
terminations by serotonin transporter (SERT) protein immunohistochemical
analysis. Ten of the 13 5HTRs showed significant mRNA expressions in the marmoset
brain. Our study shows several new features of the organization of serotonergic
systems in the marmoset brain. (1) The thalamus expressed only a limited number
of receptor subtypes compared with the cortex, hippocampus, and other subcortical
regions. (2) In the cortex, there are layer-selective and area-selective mRNA
expressions of 5HTRs. (3) Highly localized mRNA expressions of 5HT1F and 5HT3A
were observed. (4) There was a conspicuous overlap of the mRNA expressions of
receptor subtypes known to have somatodendritic localization of receptor proteins
with dense serotonergic terminations in the visual cortex, the central lateral
(CL) nucleus of the thalamus, the presubiculum, and the medial mammillary nucleus
of the hypothalamus. This suggests a high correlation between serotonin
availability and receptor expression at these locations. (5) The 5HTRs show
differences in mRNA expression pattern between the marmoset and mouse cortices
whereas the patterns of both the species were much similar in the hippocampus. We
discuss the possible roles of 5HTRs in the marmoset brain revealed by the
analysis of their overall mRNA expression patterns.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00052 
PMCID: PMC4032978
PMID: 24904298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

