

1399. Front Neural Circuits. 2014 May 19;8:52. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00052.
eCollection 2014.

mRNA expression profile of serotonin receptor subtypes and distribution of
serotonergic terminations in marmoset brain.

Shukla R(1), Watakabe A(1), Yamamori T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology Okazaki, Japan
; Department of Basic Biology, Graduate University for Advanced Studies
(SOKENDAI) Okazaki, Japan.

To better understand serotonin function in the primate brain, we examined the
mRNA expression patterns of all the 13 members of the serotonin receptor (5HTR)
family, by in situ hybridization (ISH) and the distribution of serotonergic
terminations by serotonin transporter (SERT) protein immunohistochemical
analysis. Ten of the 13 5HTRs showed significant mRNA expressions in the marmoset
brain. Our study shows several new features of the organization of serotonergic
systems in the marmoset brain. (1) The thalamus expressed only a limited number
of receptor subtypes compared with the cortex, hippocampus, and other subcortical
regions. (2) In the cortex, there are layer-selective and area-selective mRNA
expressions of 5HTRs. (3) Highly localized mRNA expressions of 5HT1F and 5HT3A
were observed. (4) There was a conspicuous overlap of the mRNA expressions of
receptor subtypes known to have somatodendritic localization of receptor proteins
with dense serotonergic terminations in the visual cortex, the central lateral
(CL) nucleus of the thalamus, the presubiculum, and the medial mammillary nucleus
of the hypothalamus. This suggests a high correlation between serotonin
availability and receptor expression at these locations. (5) The 5HTRs show
differences in mRNA expression pattern between the marmoset and mouse cortices
whereas the patterns of both the species were much similar in the hippocampus. We
discuss the possible roles of 5HTRs in the marmoset brain revealed by the
analysis of their overall mRNA expression patterns.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2014.00052 
PMCID: PMC4032978
PMID: 24904298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. Cereb Cortex. 2015 Sep;25(9):3182-96. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhu111. Epub 2014 Jun
5.

Local and Global Correlations between Neurons in the Middle Temporal Area of
Primate Visual Cortex.

Solomon SS(1), Chen SC(1), Morley JW(2), Solomon SG(3).

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, Sydney, NSW, Australia Discipline 
of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Western Sydney, Campbelltown, NSW 2560,
Australia.
(3)ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, Sydney, NSW, Australia Discipline 
of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia Department of Experimental Psychology,
University College London, WC1P 0AH, UK.

In humans and other primates, the analysis of visual motion includes populations 
of neurons in the middle-temporal (MT) area of visual cortex. Motion analysis
will be constrained by the structure of neural correlations in these populations.
Here, we use multi-electrode arrays to measure correlations in anesthetized
marmoset, a New World monkey where area MT lies exposed on the cortical surface. 
We measured correlations in the spike count between pairs of neurons and within
populations of neurons, for moving dot fields and moving gratings. Correlations
were weaker in area MT than in area V1. The magnitude of correlations in area MT 
diminished with distance between receptive fields, and difference in preferred
direction. Correlations during presentation of moving gratings were stronger than
those during presentation of moving dot fields, extended further across cortex,
and were less dependent on the functional properties of neurons. Analysis of the 
timescales of correlation suggests presence of 2 mechanisms. A local mechanism,
associated with near-synchronous spiking activity, is strongest in nearby neurons
with similar direction preference and is independent of visual stimulus. A global
mechanism, operating over larger spatial scales and longer timescales, is
independent of direction preference and is modulated by the type of visual
stimulus presented.

Â© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhu111 
PMID: 24904074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

