

1400. Cereb Cortex. 2015 Sep;25(9):3182-96. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhu111. Epub 2014 Jun
5.

Local and Global Correlations between Neurons in the Middle Temporal Area of
Primate Visual Cortex.

Solomon SS(1), Chen SC(1), Morley JW(2), Solomon SG(3).

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, Sydney, NSW, Australia Discipline 
of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Western Sydney, Campbelltown, NSW 2560,
Australia.
(3)ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, Sydney, NSW, Australia Discipline 
of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia Department of Experimental Psychology,
University College London, WC1P 0AH, UK.

In humans and other primates, the analysis of visual motion includes populations 
of neurons in the middle-temporal (MT) area of visual cortex. Motion analysis
will be constrained by the structure of neural correlations in these populations.
Here, we use multi-electrode arrays to measure correlations in anesthetized
marmoset, a New World monkey where area MT lies exposed on the cortical surface. 
We measured correlations in the spike count between pairs of neurons and within
populations of neurons, for moving dot fields and moving gratings. Correlations
were weaker in area MT than in area V1. The magnitude of correlations in area MT 
diminished with distance between receptive fields, and difference in preferred
direction. Correlations during presentation of moving gratings were stronger than
those during presentation of moving dot fields, extended further across cortex,
and were less dependent on the functional properties of neurons. Analysis of the 
timescales of correlation suggests presence of 2 mechanisms. A local mechanism,
associated with near-synchronous spiking activity, is strongest in nearby neurons
with similar direction preference and is independent of visual stimulus. A global
mechanism, operating over larger spatial scales and longer timescales, is
independent of direction preference and is modulated by the type of visual
stimulus presented.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhu111 
PMID: 24904074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1401. J Comp Neurol. 2014 Nov 1;522(16):3683-716. doi: 10.1002/cne.23633. Epub 2014 Jun
16.

Patterns of afferent input to the caudal and rostral areas of the dorsal premotor
cortex (6DC and 6DR) in the marmoset monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Bakola S, Richardson KE, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.

Corticocortical projections to the caudal and rostral areas of dorsal premotor
cortex (6DC and 6DR, also known as F2 and F7) were studied in the marmoset
monkey. Both areas received their main thalamic inputs from the ventral anterior 
and ventral lateral complexes, and received dense projections from the medial
premotor cortex. However, there were marked differences in their connections with
other cortical areas. While 6DR received consistent inputs from prefrontal
cortex, area 6DC received few such connections. Conversely, 6DC, but not 6DR,
received major projections from the primary motor and somatosensory areas.
Projections from the anterior cingulate cortex preferentially targeted 6DC, while
the posterior cingulate and adjacent medial wall areas preferentially targeted
6DR. Projections from the medial parietal area PE to 6DC were particularly dense,
while intraparietal areas (especially the putative homolog of LIP) were more
strongly labeled after 6DR injections. Finally, 6DC and 6DR were distinct in
terms of inputs from the ventral parietal cortex: projections to 6DR originated
preferentially from caudal areas (PG and OPt), while 6DC received input primarily
from rostral areas (PF and PFG). Differences in connections suggest that area 6DR
includes rostral and caudal subdivisions, with the former also involved in
oculomotor control. These results suggest that area 6DC is more directly involved
in the preparation and execution of motor acts, while area 6DR integrates sensory
and internally driven inputs for the planning of goal-directed actions. They also
provide strong evidence of a homologous organization of the dorsal premotor
cortex in New and Old World monkeys.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23633 
PMID: 24888737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

