

1401. J Comp Neurol. 2014 Nov 1;522(16):3683-716. doi: 10.1002/cne.23633. Epub 2014 Jun
16.

Patterns of afferent input to the caudal and rostral areas of the dorsal premotor
cortex (6DC and 6DR) in the marmoset monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Bakola S, Richardson KE, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.

Corticocortical projections to the caudal and rostral areas of dorsal premotor
cortex (6DC and 6DR, also known as F2 and F7) were studied in the marmoset
monkey. Both areas received their main thalamic inputs from the ventral anterior 
and ventral lateral complexes, and received dense projections from the medial
premotor cortex. However, there were marked differences in their connections with
other cortical areas. While 6DR received consistent inputs from prefrontal
cortex, area 6DC received few such connections. Conversely, 6DC, but not 6DR,
received major projections from the primary motor and somatosensory areas.
Projections from the anterior cingulate cortex preferentially targeted 6DC, while
the posterior cingulate and adjacent medial wall areas preferentially targeted
6DR. Projections from the medial parietal area PE to 6DC were particularly dense,
while intraparietal areas (especially the putative homolog of LIP) were more
strongly labeled after 6DR injections. Finally, 6DC and 6DR were distinct in
terms of inputs from the ventral parietal cortex: projections to 6DR originated
preferentially from caudal areas (PG and OPt), while 6DC received input primarily
from rostral areas (PF and PFG). Differences in connections suggest that area 6DR
includes rostral and caudal subdivisions, with the former also involved in
oculomotor control. These results suggest that area 6DC is more directly involved
in the preparation and execution of motor acts, while area 6DR integrates sensory
and internally driven inputs for the planning of goal-directed actions. They also
provide strong evidence of a homologous organization of the dorsal premotor
cortex in New and Old World monkeys.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23633 
PMID: 24888737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1402. Cereb Cortex. 2015 Sep;25(9):3064-76. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhu102. Epub 2014 May
30.

Role of Central Serotonin in Anticipation of Rewarding and Punishing Outcomes:
Effects of Selective Amygdala or Orbitofrontal 5-HT Depletion.

Rygula R(1), Clarke HF(2), Cardinal RN(3), Cockcroft GJ(4), Xia J(4), Dalley
JW(4), Robbins TW(4), Roberts AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK
Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK Current Address: Affective Cognitive Neuroscience
Laboratory, Department of Behavioral Neurobiology and Drug Development, Institute
of Pharmacology Polish Academy of Sciences, ul Smetna 12, 31-343 Krakow, Poland.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.
(3)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, School
of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK Liaison Psychiatry Service,
Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Box 190, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK
Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Understanding the role of serotonin (or 5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in aversive
processing has been hampered by the contradictory findings, across studies, of
increased sensitivity to punishment in terms of subsequent response choice but
decreased sensitivity to punishment-induced response suppression following gross 
depletion of central 5-HT. To address this apparent discrepancy, the present
study determined whether both effects could be found in the same animals by
performing localized 5-HT depletions in the amygdala or orbitofrontal cortex
(OFC) of a New World monkey, the common marmoset. 5-HT depletion in the amygdala 
impaired response choice on a probabilistic visual discrimination task by
increasing the effectiveness of misleading, or false, punishment and reward, and 
decreased response suppression in a variable interval test of punishment
sensitivity that employed the same reward and punisher. 5-HT depletion in the OFC
also disrupted probabilistic discrimination learning and decreased response
suppression. Computational modeling of behavior on the discrimination task showed
that the lesions reduced reinforcement sensitivity. A novel, unitary account of
the findings in terms of the causal role of 5-HT in the anticipation of both
negative and positive motivational outcomes is proposed and discussed in relation
to current theories of 5-HT function and our understanding of mood and anxiety
disorders.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhu102 
PMCID: PMC4537445
PMID: 24879752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

