

1408. Int Immunol. 2014 Nov;26(11):597-606. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxu053. Epub 2014 May
24.

NKG2D functions as an activating receptor on natural killer cells in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Watanabe M(1), Kudo Y(1), Kawano M(1), Nakayama M(1), Nakamura K(1), Kameda M(1),
Ebara M(1), Sato T(1), Nakamura M(1), Omine K(1), Kametani Y(2), Suzuki R(3),
Ogasawara K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer,
Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8575, Japan.
(2)Department of Immunology, Tokai University School of Medicine, Isehara
259-1193, Japan.
(3)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Sagamihara 252-0315, Japan.
(4)Department of Immunobiology, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer,
Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8575, Japan ogasawara@idac.tohoku.ac.jp.

The natural killer group 2 membrane D (NKG2D) receptor is an NK-activating
receptor that plays an important role in host defense against tumors and viral
infections. Although the marmoset is an important and reliable animal model,
especially for the study of human-specific viral infections, functional
characterization of NKG2D on marmoset NK cells has not previously been conducted.
In the present study, we investigated a subpopulation of marmoset NK cells that
express NKG2D and exhibit cytolytic potential. On the basis of their CD16 and
CD56 expression patterns, marmoset NK cells can be classified into three
subpopulations: CD16(+) CD56(-), CD16(-) CD56(+) and CD16(-) CD56(-) cells. NKG2D
expression on marmoset CD16(+) CD56(-) and CD16(-) CD56(+) splenocytes was
confirmed using an NKG2D ligand composed of an MHC class I chain-related molecule
A (MICA)-Fc fusion protein. When marmoset splenocytes were cultured with IL-2 for
4 days, NKG2D expression was retained on CD16(+) CD56(-) and CD16(-) CD56(+). In 
addition, CD16(+) CD56(+) cells within the marmoset NK population appeared which 
expressed NKG2D after IL-2 stimulation. IL-2-activated marmoset NK cells showed
strong cytolytic activity against K562 target cells and target cells stably
expressing MICA. Further, the cytolytic activity of marmoset splenocytes was
significantly reduced after addition of MICA-Fc fusion protein. Thus, NKG2D
functions as an activating receptor on marmoset NK cells that possesses cytotoxic
potential, and phenotypic profiles of marmoset NK cell subpopulations are similar
to those seen in humans.

© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2014. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxu053 
PMID: 24860119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1409. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2015 Jan;82 Pt B:413-25. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.04.031.
Epub 2014 May 20.

Biogeography of the marmosets and tamarins (Callitrichidae).

Buckner JC(1), Lynch Alfaro JW(2), Rylands AB(3), Alfaro ME(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA. Electronic address: jcharrayb@ucla.edu.
(2)Institute for Society and Genetics, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA; Department of Anthropology, University of California, Los Angeles, CA
90095, USA.
(3)Conservation International, Arlington, VA 22202, USA.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

The marmosets and tamarins, Family Callitrichidae, are Neotropical primates with 
over 60 species and subspecies that inhabit much of South America. Although
callitrichids exhibit a remarkable widespread distribution, attempts to unravel
their biogeographic history have been limited by taxonomic confusion and the lack
of an appropriate statistical biogeographic framework. Here, we construct a
time-calibrated multi-locus phylogeny from GenBank data and the callitrichid
literature for 38 taxa. We use this framework to conduct statistical
biogeographic analyses of callitrichids using BioGeoBEARS. The DIVAj model is the
best supported reconstruction of biogeographic history among our analyses and
suggests that the most recent common ancestor to the callitrichids was widespread
across forested regions c. 14 Ma. There is also support for multiple
colonizations of the Atlantic forest region from the Amazon basin, first by
Leontopithecus c. 11 Ma and later by Callithrix c. 5 Ma. Our results show support
for a 9 million year old split between a small-bodied group and large-bodied
group of tamarins. These phylogenetic data, in concert with the consistent
difference in body size between the two groups and geographical patterns
(small-bodied tamarins and large-bodied tamarins have an unusually high degree of
geographic overlap for congeners) lend support to our suggestion to split
Saguinus into two genera, and we propose the use of distinct generic names;
Leontocebus and Saguinus, respectively.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.04.031 
PMID: 24857784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

