

1409. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2015 Jan;82 Pt B:413-25. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.04.031.
Epub 2014 May 20.

Biogeography of the marmosets and tamarins (Callitrichidae).

Buckner JC(1), Lynch Alfaro JW(2), Rylands AB(3), Alfaro ME(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA. Electronic address: jcharrayb@ucla.edu.
(2)Institute for Society and Genetics, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA; Department of Anthropology, University of California, Los Angeles, CA
90095, USA.
(3)Conservation International, Arlington, VA 22202, USA.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

The marmosets and tamarins, Family Callitrichidae, are Neotropical primates with 
over 60 species and subspecies that inhabit much of South America. Although
callitrichids exhibit a remarkable widespread distribution, attempts to unravel
their biogeographic history have been limited by taxonomic confusion and the lack
of an appropriate statistical biogeographic framework. Here, we construct a
time-calibrated multi-locus phylogeny from GenBank data and the callitrichid
literature for 38 taxa. We use this framework to conduct statistical
biogeographic analyses of callitrichids using BioGeoBEARS. The DIVAj model is the
best supported reconstruction of biogeographic history among our analyses and
suggests that the most recent common ancestor to the callitrichids was widespread
across forested regions c. 14 Ma. There is also support for multiple
colonizations of the Atlantic forest region from the Amazon basin, first by
Leontopithecus c. 11 Ma and later by Callithrix c. 5 Ma. Our results show support
for a 9 million year old split between a small-bodied group and large-bodied
group of tamarins. These phylogenetic data, in concert with the consistent
difference in body size between the two groups and geographical patterns
(small-bodied tamarins and large-bodied tamarins have an unusually high degree of
geographic overlap for congeners) lend support to our suggestion to split
Saguinus into two genera, and we propose the use of distinct generic names;
Leontocebus and Saguinus, respectively.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2014.04.031 
PMID: 24857784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1410. Biol Lett. 2014 May;10(5):20140058. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0058.

Marmoset monkeys evaluate third-party reciprocity.

Kawai N(1), Yasue M(2), Banno T(3), Ichinohe N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan
kawai@is.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Many non-human primates have been observed to reciprocate and to understand
reciprocity in one-to-one social exchanges. A recent study demonstrated that
capuchin monkeys are sensitive to both third-party reciprocity and violation of
reciprocity; however, whether this sensitivity is a function of general
intelligence, evidenced by their larger brain size relative to other primates,
remains unclear. We hypothesized that highly pro-social primates, even with a
relatively smaller brain, would be sensitive to others' reciprocity. Here, we
show that common marmosets discriminated between human actors who reciprocated in
social exchanges with others and those who did not. Monkeys accepted rewards less
frequently from non-reciprocators than they did from reciprocators when the
non-reciprocators had retained all food items, but they accepted rewards from
both actors equally when they had observed reciprocal exchange between the
actors. These results suggest that mechanisms to detect unfair reciprocity in
third-party social exchanges do not require domain-general higher cognitive
ability based on proportionally larger brains, but rather emerge from the
cooperative and pro-social tendencies of species, and thereby suggest this
ability evolved in multiple primate lineages.

© 2014 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0058 
PMCID: PMC4046368
PMID: 24850892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

