

1410. Biol Lett. 2014 May;10(5):20140058. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0058.

Marmoset monkeys evaluate third-party reciprocity.

Kawai N(1), Yasue M(2), Banno T(3), Ichinohe N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan
kawai@is.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Many non-human primates have been observed to reciprocate and to understand
reciprocity in one-to-one social exchanges. A recent study demonstrated that
capuchin monkeys are sensitive to both third-party reciprocity and violation of
reciprocity; however, whether this sensitivity is a function of general
intelligence, evidenced by their larger brain size relative to other primates,
remains unclear. We hypothesized that highly pro-social primates, even with a
relatively smaller brain, would be sensitive to others' reciprocity. Here, we
show that common marmosets discriminated between human actors who reciprocated in
social exchanges with others and those who did not. Monkeys accepted rewards less
frequently from non-reciprocators than they did from reciprocators when the
non-reciprocators had retained all food items, but they accepted rewards from
both actors equally when they had observed reciprocal exchange between the
actors. These results suggest that mechanisms to detect unfair reciprocity in
third-party social exchanges do not require domain-general higher cognitive
ability based on proportionally larger brains, but rather emerge from the
cooperative and pro-social tendencies of species, and thereby suggest this
ability evolved in multiple primate lineages.

© 2014 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0058 
PMCID: PMC4046368
PMID: 24850892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1411. Reproduction. 2014 Aug;148(2):237-47. doi: 10.1530/REP-14-0068. Epub 2014 May 19.

The neonatal marmoset monkey ovary is very primitive exhibiting many oogonia.

Fereydouni B(1), Drummer C(1), Aeckerle N(1), Schlatt S(1), Behr R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology UnitGerman Primate Center - Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, GermanyCentre of Reproductive Medicine
and AndrologyUniversity of Münster, Domagkstraße 11, 48149 Münster, Germany.
(2)Stem Cell Biology UnitGerman Primate Center - Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, GermanyCentre of Reproductive Medicine
and AndrologyUniversity of Münster, Domagkstraße 11, 48149 Münster, Germany
rbehr@dpz.eu.

Oogonia are characterized by diploidy and mitotic proliferation. Human and mouse 
oogonia express several factors such as OCT4, which are characteristic of
pluripotent cells. In human, almost all oogonia enter meiosis between weeks 9 and
22 of prenatal development or undergo mitotic arrest and subsequent elimination
from the ovary. As a consequence, neonatal human ovaries generally lack oogonia. 
The same was found in neonatal ovaries of the rhesus monkey, a representative of 
the old world monkeys (Catarrhini). By contrast, proliferating oogonia were found
in adult prosimians (now called Strepsirrhini), which is a group of 'lower'
primates. The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) belongs to the new
world monkeys (Platyrrhini) and is increasingly used in reproductive biology and 
stem cell research. However, ovarian development in the marmoset monkey has not
been widely investigated. Herein, we show that the neonatal marmoset ovary has an
extremely immature histological appearance compared with the human ovary. It
contains numerous oogonia expressing the pluripotency factors OCT4A, SALL4, and
LIN28A (LIN28). The pluripotency factor-positive germ cells also express the
proliferation marker MKI67 (Ki-67), which has previously been shown in the human 
ovary to be restricted to premeiotic germ cells. Together, the data demonstrate
the primitiveness of the neonatal marmoset ovary compared with human. This study 
may introduce the marmoset monkey as a non-human primate model to experimentally 
study the aspects of primate primitive gonad development, follicle assembly, and 
germ cell biology in vivo.

© 2014 The authors.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-14-0068 
PMCID: PMC4086814
PMID: 24840529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

