

1411. Reproduction. 2014 Aug;148(2):237-47. doi: 10.1530/REP-14-0068. Epub 2014 May 19.

The neonatal marmoset monkey ovary is very primitive exhibiting many oogonia.

Fereydouni B(1), Drummer C(1), Aeckerle N(1), Schlatt S(1), Behr R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology UnitGerman Primate Center - Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, GermanyCentre of Reproductive Medicine
and AndrologyUniversity of Münster, Domagkstraße 11, 48149 Münster, Germany.
(2)Stem Cell Biology UnitGerman Primate Center - Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, GermanyCentre of Reproductive Medicine
and AndrologyUniversity of Münster, Domagkstraße 11, 48149 Münster, Germany
rbehr@dpz.eu.

Oogonia are characterized by diploidy and mitotic proliferation. Human and mouse 
oogonia express several factors such as OCT4, which are characteristic of
pluripotent cells. In human, almost all oogonia enter meiosis between weeks 9 and
22 of prenatal development or undergo mitotic arrest and subsequent elimination
from the ovary. As a consequence, neonatal human ovaries generally lack oogonia. 
The same was found in neonatal ovaries of the rhesus monkey, a representative of 
the old world monkeys (Catarrhini). By contrast, proliferating oogonia were found
in adult prosimians (now called Strepsirrhini), which is a group of 'lower'
primates. The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) belongs to the new
world monkeys (Platyrrhini) and is increasingly used in reproductive biology and 
stem cell research. However, ovarian development in the marmoset monkey has not
been widely investigated. Herein, we show that the neonatal marmoset ovary has an
extremely immature histological appearance compared with the human ovary. It
contains numerous oogonia expressing the pluripotency factors OCT4A, SALL4, and
LIN28A (LIN28). The pluripotency factor-positive germ cells also express the
proliferation marker MKI67 (Ki-67), which has previously been shown in the human 
ovary to be restricted to premeiotic germ cells. Together, the data demonstrate
the primitiveness of the neonatal marmoset ovary compared with human. This study 
may introduce the marmoset monkey as a non-human primate model to experimentally 
study the aspects of primate primitive gonad development, follicle assembly, and 
germ cell biology in vivo.

© 2014 The authors.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-14-0068 
PMCID: PMC4086814
PMID: 24840529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. Cell Tissue Res. 2014 Jul;357(1):31-41. doi: 10.1007/s00441-014-1837-5. Epub 2014
May 10.

NDRG2 as a marker protein for brain astrocytes.

Flügge G(1), Araya-Callis C, Garea-Rodriguez E, Stadelmann-Nessler C, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, Göttingen, 37077, Germany, gfluegg@gwdg.de.

The protein NDRG2 (N-myc downregulated gene 2) is expressed in astrocytes. We
show here that NDRG2 is located in the cytosol of protoplasmic and fibrous
astrocytes throughout the mammalian brain, including Bergmann glia as observed in
mouse, rat, tree shrew, marmoset and human. NDRG2 immunoreactivity is detectable 
in the astrocytic cell bodies and excrescencies including fine distal processes. 
Glutamatergic and GABAergic nerve terminals are associated with NDRG2
immunopositive astrocytic processes. Müller glia in the retina displays no NDRG2 
immunoreactivity. NDRG2 positive astrocytes are more abundant and more evenly
distributed in the brain than GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein)
immunoreactive cells. Some regions with very little GFAP such as the caudate
nucleus show pronounced NDRG2 immunoreactivity. In white matter areas, NDRG2 is
less strong than GFAP labeling. Most NDRG2 positive somata are immunoreactive for
S100ß but not all S100ß cells express NDRG2. NDRG2 positive astrocytes do not
express nestin and NG2 (chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4). The localization of 
NDRG2 overlaps only partially with that of aquaporin 4, the membrane-bound water 
channel that is concentrated in the astrocytic endfeet. Reactive astrocytes at a 
cortical lesion display very little NDRG2, which indicates that expression of the
protein is reduced in reactive astrocytes. In conclusion, our data show that
NDRG2 is a specific marker for a large population of mature, non-reactive brain
astrocytes. Visualization of NDRG2 immunoreactive structures may serve as a
reliable tool for quantitative studies on numbers of astrocytes in distinct brain
regions and for high-resolution microscopy studies on distal astrocytic
processes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-014-1837-5 
PMCID: PMC4077251
PMID: 24816982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

