

1414. Front Behav Neurosci. 2014 Apr 24;8:137. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00137.
eCollection 2014.

Individual differences in behavioral and cardiovascular reactivity to emotive
stimuli and their relationship to cognitive flexibility in a primate model of
trait anxiety.

Shiba Y(1), Santangelo AM(1), Braesicke K(1), AgustÃ­n-PavÃ³n C(1), Cockcroft G(2),
Haggard M(3), Roberts AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge Cambridge, UK ; Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute,
University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge
Cambridge, UK ; Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge Cambridge, UK.

High trait anxiety is a risk factor for the development of anxiety disorders.
Like the disorders themselves high trait anxiety has marked phenotypic variation 
at the level of symptomatology and neural circuits, suggesting that there may be 
different symptoms and distinct neural circuits associated with risk for these
disorders. To address these issues, it is essential to develop reliable animal
models of trait anxiety in a non-human primate whose brain bears structural and
functional similarity to humans. The present study investigated individual
variation in responsivity to fearful and anxiety provoking stimuli in the common 
marmoset monkey. Seven out of 27 animals failed to display discriminative,
conditioned cardiovascular and behavioral responses on an auditory fear
discrimination task, similar to that seen in high anxious humans and rodents.
Their heightened emotionality to a rubber snake was consistent with the
hypothesis that they were high in trait-like anxiety. Evidence for phenotypic
variation in the high anxiety group was provided by the finding that
discrimination failure was predicted early in conditioning by either
hyper-vigilant scanning to the cues or a reduction in blood pressure to the
context, i.e., test apparatus. Given that high trait anxiety in humans can be
associated with altered prefrontal cognitive functioning and previously we
implicated the marmoset anterior orbitofrontal (antOFC) and ventrolateral
prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) in negative emotion regulation, we also tested the
marmosets on two tests of cognitive flexibility differentially dependent on these
two regions. While the high anxious group did not differ overall in their
perseverative performance, the two distinct phenotypes were differentially
correlated with reduced perseverative responding on the OFC- and vlPFC-dependent 
flexibility tests. Together, this study provides a new model of trait anxiety in 
marmosets amenable to analysis of phenotypic variation and neural circuitry.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2014.00137 
PMCID: PMC4006051
PMID: 24795587 


1415. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2014 Jul;350(1):153-63. doi: 10.1124/jpet.114.214155. Epub 
2014 Apr 30.

GSK356278, a potent, selective, brain-penetrant phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor
that demonstrates anxiolytic and cognition-enhancing effects without inducing
side effects in preclinical species.

Rutter AR(1), Poffe A(2), Cavallini P(2), Davis TG(2), Schneck J(2), Negri M(2), 
Vicentini E(2), Montanari D(2), Arban R(2), Gray FA(2), Davies CH(2), Wren PB(2).

Author information: 
(1)GlaxoSmithKline, Discovery Medicine, Stevenage, Herts, United Kingdom (F.A.G.,
P.B.W.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neural Pathways Discovery Performance Unit, Biopolis,
Singapore (A.R.R., C.H.D.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neurosciences Centre of Excellence
for Drug Discovery, Verona, Italy (A.P., P.C., M.N., E.V., D.M., R.A.);
GlaxoSmithKline, Molecular Discovery Research, Collegeville, Pennsylvania (J.S.);
and GlaxoSmithKline, Respiratory Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania (T.G.D.) Richard.a.rutter@gsk.com.
(2)GlaxoSmithKline, Discovery Medicine, Stevenage, Herts, United Kingdom (F.A.G.,
P.B.W.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neural Pathways Discovery Performance Unit, Biopolis,
Singapore (A.R.R., C.H.D.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neurosciences Centre of Excellence
for Drug Discovery, Verona, Italy (A.P., P.C., M.N., E.V., D.M., R.A.);
GlaxoSmithKline, Molecular Discovery Research, Collegeville, Pennsylvania (J.S.);
and GlaxoSmithKline, Respiratory Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania (T.G.D.).

Small molecule phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4 inhibitors have long been known to show 
therapeutic benefit in various preclinical models of psychiatric and neurologic
diseases because of their ability to elevate cAMP in various cell types of the
central nervous system. Despite the registration of the first PDE4 inhibitor,
roflumilast, for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the
therapeutic potential of PDE4 inhibitors in neurologic diseases has never been
fulfilled in the clinic due to severe dose-limiting side effects such as nausea
and vomiting. In this study, we describe the detailed pharmacological
characterization of GSK356278
[5-(5-((2,4-dimethylthiazol-5-yl)methyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl)-1-ethyl-N-(tetrahy
dro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridin-4-amine], a potent, selective, and
brain-penetrant PDE4 inhibitor that shows a superior therapeutic index to both
rolipram and roflumilast in various preclinical species and has potential for
further development in the clinic for the treatment of psychiatric and neurologic
diseases. GSK356278 inhibited PDE4B enzyme activity with a pIC50 of 8.8 and bound
to the high-affinity rolipram binding site with a pIC50 of 8.6. In preclinical
models, the therapeutic index as defined in a rodent lung inflammation model
versus rat pica feeding was >150 compared with 0.5 and 6.4 for rolipram and
roflumilast, respectively. In a model of anxiety in common marmosets, the
therapeutic index for GSK356278 was >10 versus <1 for rolipram. We also
demonstrate that GSK356278 enhances performance in a model of executive function 
in cynomolgus macaques with no adverse effects, a therapeutic profile that
supports further evaluation of GSK356278 in a clinical setting.

Copyright Â© 2014 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.114.214155 
PMID: 24784567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

