

1415. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2014 Jul;350(1):153-63. doi: 10.1124/jpet.114.214155. Epub 
2014 Apr 30.

GSK356278, a potent, selective, brain-penetrant phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor
that demonstrates anxiolytic and cognition-enhancing effects without inducing
side effects in preclinical species.

Rutter AR(1), Poffe A(2), Cavallini P(2), Davis TG(2), Schneck J(2), Negri M(2), 
Vicentini E(2), Montanari D(2), Arban R(2), Gray FA(2), Davies CH(2), Wren PB(2).

Author information: 
(1)GlaxoSmithKline, Discovery Medicine, Stevenage, Herts, United Kingdom (F.A.G.,
P.B.W.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neural Pathways Discovery Performance Unit, Biopolis,
Singapore (A.R.R., C.H.D.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neurosciences Centre of Excellence
for Drug Discovery, Verona, Italy (A.P., P.C., M.N., E.V., D.M., R.A.);
GlaxoSmithKline, Molecular Discovery Research, Collegeville, Pennsylvania (J.S.);
and GlaxoSmithKline, Respiratory Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania (T.G.D.) Richard.a.rutter@gsk.com.
(2)GlaxoSmithKline, Discovery Medicine, Stevenage, Herts, United Kingdom (F.A.G.,
P.B.W.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neural Pathways Discovery Performance Unit, Biopolis,
Singapore (A.R.R., C.H.D.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neurosciences Centre of Excellence
for Drug Discovery, Verona, Italy (A.P., P.C., M.N., E.V., D.M., R.A.);
GlaxoSmithKline, Molecular Discovery Research, Collegeville, Pennsylvania (J.S.);
and GlaxoSmithKline, Respiratory Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania (T.G.D.).

Small molecule phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4 inhibitors have long been known to show 
therapeutic benefit in various preclinical models of psychiatric and neurologic
diseases because of their ability to elevate cAMP in various cell types of the
central nervous system. Despite the registration of the first PDE4 inhibitor,
roflumilast, for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the
therapeutic potential of PDE4 inhibitors in neurologic diseases has never been
fulfilled in the clinic due to severe dose-limiting side effects such as nausea
and vomiting. In this study, we describe the detailed pharmacological
characterization of GSK356278
[5-(5-((2,4-dimethylthiazol-5-yl)methyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl)-1-ethyl-N-(tetrahy
dro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridin-4-amine], a potent, selective, and
brain-penetrant PDE4 inhibitor that shows a superior therapeutic index to both
rolipram and roflumilast in various preclinical species and has potential for
further development in the clinic for the treatment of psychiatric and neurologic
diseases. GSK356278 inhibited PDE4B enzyme activity with a pIC50 of 8.8 and bound
to the high-affinity rolipram binding site with a pIC50 of 8.6. In preclinical
models, the therapeutic index as defined in a rodent lung inflammation model
versus rat pica feeding was >150 compared with 0.5 and 6.4 for rolipram and
roflumilast, respectively. In a model of anxiety in common marmosets, the
therapeutic index for GSK356278 was >10 versus <1 for rolipram. We also
demonstrate that GSK356278 enhances performance in a model of executive function 
in cynomolgus macaques with no adverse effects, a therapeutic profile that
supports further evaluation of GSK356278 in a clinical setting.

Copyright Â© 2014 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.114.214155 
PMID: 24784567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1416. Mol Ther. 2014 Jul;22(7):1299-1309. doi: 10.1038/mt.2014.68. Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Global CNS transduction of adult mice by intravenously delivered rAAVrh.8 and
rAAVrh.10 and nonhuman primates by rAAVrh.10.

Yang B(1), Li S(2), Wang H(3), Guo Y(4), Gessler DJ(5), Cao C(6), Su Q(7), Kramer
J(8), Zhong L(9), Ahmed SS(2), Zhang H(10), He R(7), Desrosiers RC(8), Brown
R(11), Xu Z(12), Gao G(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; Division of Biology, California
Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California, USA.
(2)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Microbiology & Physiology Systems, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; Department of Neurology, the Second
Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, People's Republic of China.
(5)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Microbiology & Physiology Systems, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; University of Heidelberg, Medical
School, Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Physiology, Tongji Medical School, Tongji University,
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(7)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA.
(8)New England Primate Research Center and Harvard Medical School, Southborough, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(9)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Pediatrics, University of Massachusetts, Worcester,
Massachusetts, USA.
(10)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Microbiology & Physiology Systems, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; Department of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, South Dakota State University, Brookings, South Dakota, USA.
(11)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts, Worcester,
Massachusetts, USA.
(12)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Pharmacology, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA. Electronic address:
zuoshang.xu@umassmed.edu.
(13)Gene Therapy Center, University of Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts,
USA; Department of Microbiology & Physiology Systems, University of
Massachusetts, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA; State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy,
West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, People's Republic of China.
Electronic address: guangping.gao@umassmed.edu.

Some recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAVs) can cross the neonatal
blood-brain barrier (BBB) and efficiently transduce cells of the central nervous 
system (CNS). However, in the adult CNS, transduction levels by systemically
delivered rAAVs are significantly reduced, limiting their potential for CNS gene 
therapy. Here, we characterized 12 different rAAVEGFPs in the adult mouse CNS
following intravenous delivery. We show that the capability of crossing the adult
BBB and achieving widespread CNS transduction is a common character of AAV
serotypes tested. Of note, rAAVrh.8 is the leading vector for robust global
transduction of glial and neuronal cell types in regions of clinical importance
such as cortex, caudate-putamen, hippocampus, corpus callosum, and substantia
nigra. It also displays reduced peripheral tissue tropism compared to other
leading vectors. Additionally, we evaluated rAAVrh.10 with and without microRNA
(miRNA)-regulated expressional detargeting from peripheral tissues for systemic
gene delivery to the CNS in marmosets. Our results indicate that rAAVrh.8, along 
with rh.10 and 9, hold the best promise for developing novel therapeutic
strategies to treat neurological diseases in the adult patient population.
Additionally, systemically delivered rAAVrh.10 can transduce the CNS efficiently,
and its transgene expression can be limited in the periphery by endogenous miRNAs
in adult marmosets.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2014.68 
PMCID: PMC4089005
PMID: 24781136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

