

142. Sci Rep. 2021 May 5;11(1):9624. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-89175-7.

Concurrent X chromosome inactivation and upregulation during non-human primate
preimplantation development revealed by single-cell RNA-sequencing.

Cidral AL(#)(1), de Mello JCM(#)(2), Gribnau J(2), Pereira LV(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Laboratory for Embryonic Stem Cells (LaNCE), Department of Genetics
and Evolutionary Biology, Institute of Biosciences, University of São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, 05508-090, Brazil.
(2)Department of Developmental Biology, Oncode Institute, Erasmus MC University
Medical Center, 3015GE, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)National Laboratory for Embryonic Stem Cells (LaNCE), Department of Genetics
and Evolutionary Biology, Institute of Biosciences, University of São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, 05508-090, Brazil. lpereira@usp.br.
(#)Contributed equally

In mammals, dosage compensation of X-linked gene expression between males and
females is achieved by inactivation of a single X chromosome in females, while
upregulation of the single active X in males and females leads to X:autosome
dosage balance. Studies in human embryos revealed that random X chromosome
inactivation starts at the preimplantation stage and is not complete by day 12 of
development. Alternatively, others proposed that dosage compensation in human
preimplantation embryos is achieved by dampening expression from the two X
chromosomes in females. Here, we characterize X-linked dosage compensation in
another primate, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Analyzing scRNA-seq data from
preimplantation embryos, we detected upregulation of XIST at the morula stage,
where female embryos presented a significantly higher expression of XIST than
males. Moreover, we show an increase of X-linked monoallelically expressed genes 
in female embryos between the morula and late blastocyst stages, indicative of
XCI. Nevertheless, dosage compensation was not achieved by the late blastocyst
stage. Finally, we show that X:autosome dosage compensation is achieved at the
8-cell stage, and demonstrate that X chromosome dampening in females does not
take place in the marmoset. Our work contributes to the elucidation of primate
X-linked dosage compensation.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-89175-7 
PMCID: PMC8100148
PMID: 33953270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. J Comp Neurol. 2021 Sep;529(13):3274-3291. doi: 10.1002/cne.25167. Epub 2021 Jun 
9.

Sexually dimorphic perineuronal nets in the rodent and primate reproductive
circuit.

Ciccarelli A(1), Weijers D(1), Kwan W(2), Warner C(2), Bourne J(2), Gross CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Epigenetics & Neurobiology Unit, EMBL Rome, European Molecular Biology
Laboratory, Rome.
(2)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Perineuronal nets are extracellular glycoprotein structures that have been found 
on some neurons in the central nervous system and that have been shown to
regulate their structural plasticity. Until now work on perineuronal nets has
been focused on their role in cortical structures where they are selectively
expressed on parvalbumin-positive neurons and are reported to restrict the
experience-dependent plasticity of inhibitory afferents. Here, we examined the
expression of perineuronal nets subcortically, showing that they are expressed in
several discrete structures, including nuclei that comprise the brain network
controlling reproductive behaviors (e.g., mounting, lordosis, aggression, and
social defense). In particular, perineuronal nets were found in the posterior
dorsal division of the medial amygdala, the medial preoptic nucleus, the
posterior medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventrolateral
ventromedial hypothalamus and adjacent tuberal nucleus, and the ventral
premammillary nucleus in both the mouse and primate brain. Comparison of
perineuronal nets in male and female mice revealed a significant sexually
dimorphic expression, with expression found prominently on estrogen receptor
expressing neurons in the medial amygdala. These findings suggest that
perineuronal nets may be involved in regulating neural plasticity in the
mammalian reproductive system.

© 2021 The Authors. The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25167 
PMID: 33950531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

