

1420. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 May 6;111(18):E1924-32. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1320735111. Epub 2014 Apr 21.

Fetal programming of adult Leydig cell function by androgenic effects on
stem/progenitor cells.

Kilcoyne KR(1), Smith LB, Atanassova N, Macpherson S, McKinnell C, van den
Driesche S, Jobling MS, Chambers TJ, De Gendt K, Verhoeven G, O'Hara L, Platts S,
Renato de Franca L, Lara NL, Anderson RA, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Centre for Reproductive Health, The Queen's Medical
Research Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Asian J Androl. 2015 Mar-Apr;17(2):219-20.

Fetal growth plays a role in programming of adult cardiometabolic disorders,
which in men, are associated with lowered testosterone levels. Fetal growth and
fetal androgen exposure can also predetermine testosterone levels in men,
although how is unknown, because the adult Leydig cells (ALCs) that produce
testosterone do not differentiate until puberty. To explain this conundrum, we
hypothesized that stem cells for ALCs must be present in the fetal testis and
might be susceptible to programming by fetal androgen exposure during
masculinization. To address this hypothesis, we used ALC ablation/regeneration to
identify that, in rats, ALCs derive from stem/progenitor cells that express
chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor II. These stem cells are
abundant in the fetal testis of humans and rodents, and lineage tracing in mice
shows that they develop into ALCs. The stem cells also express androgen receptors
(ARs). Reduction in fetal androgen action through AR KO in mice or dibutyl
phthalate (DBP) -induced reduction in intratesticular testosterone in rats
reduced ALC stem cell number by âˆ¼40% at birth to adulthood and induced
compensated ALC failure (low/normal testosterone and elevated luteinizing
hormone). In DBP-exposed males, this failure was probably explained by reduced
testicular steroidogenic acute regulatory protein expression, which is associated
with increased histone methylation (H3K27me3) in the proximal promoter.
Accordingly, ALCs and ALC stem cells immunoexpressed increased H3K27me3, a change
that was also evident in ALC stem cells in fetal testes. These studies highlight 
how a key component of male reproductive development can fundamentally reprogram 
adult hormone production (through an epigenetic change), which might affect
lifetime disease risk.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1320735111 
PMCID: PMC4020050
PMID: 24753613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 21;9(4):e95560. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095560. eCollection
2014.

Birth of healthy offspring following ICSI in in vitro-matured common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) oocytes.

Takahashi T(1), Hanazawa K(2), Inoue T(3), Sato K(4), Sedohara A(4), Okahara
J(4), Suemizu H(5), Yagihashi C(5), Yamamoto M(5), Eto T(4), Konno Y(6), Okano
H(7), Suematsu M(8), Sasaki E(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; Department of
Biochemistry, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Oncology, Juntendo University Nerima Hospital, Nerima-ku, Tokyo,
Japan.
(3)Marmoset Research Department, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(5)Department of Biomedical Research, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(6)Altair Corporation, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa, Japan.
(7)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo, Japan.
(8)Department of Biochemistry, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo, Japan.
(9)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan; Keio Advanced
Research Center, Keio University, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), an important method used to treat male
subfertility, is applied in the transgenic technology of sperm-mediated gene
transfer. However, no study has described successful generation of offspring
using ICSI in the common marmoset, a small non-human primate used as a model for 
biomedical translational research. In this study, we investigated blastocyst
development and the subsequent live offspring stages of marmoset oocytes matured 
in vitro and fertilized by ICSI. To investigate the optimal timing of performing 
ICSI, corrected immature oocytes were matured in vitro and ICSI was performed at 
various time points (1-2 h, 2-4 h, 4-6 h, 6-8 h, and 8-10 h after extrusion of
the first polar body (PB)). Matured oocytes were then divided randomly into two
groups: one was used for in vitro fertilization (IVF) and the other for ICSI. To 
investigate in vivo development of embryos followed by ICSI, 6-cell- to
8-cell-stage embryos and blastocysts were nonsurgically transferred into
recipient marmosets. Although no significant differences were observed in the
fertilization rate of blastocysts among ICSI timing after the first PB extrusion,
the blastocyst rate at 1-2 h was lowest among groups at 2-4 h, 4-6 h, 6-8 h, and 
8-10 h. Comparing ICSI to IVF, the fertilization rates obtained in ICSI were
higher than in IVF (p>0.05). No significant difference was noted in the cleaved
blastocyst rate between ICSI and IVF. Following the transfer of 37 ICSI
blastocysts, 4 of 20 recipients became pregnant, while with the transfer of 21
6-cell- to 8-cell-stage ICSI embryos, 3 of 8 recipients became pregnant. Four
healthy offspring were produced and grew normally. These are the first marmoset
offspring produced by ICSI, making it an effective fertilization method for
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095560 
PMCID: PMC3994092
PMID: 24751978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

