

1426. J Immunol. 2014 May 1;192(9):4242-53. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1303125. Epub 2014
Apr 2.

CD20+ B cell depletion alters T cell homing.

Kap YS(1), van Driel N, Laman JD, Tak PP, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, 2280 GH
Rijswijk, The Netherlands;

Depleting mAbs against the pan B cell marker CD20 are remarkably effective in the
treatment of autoimmune-mediated inflammatory disorders, but the underlying
mechanisms are poorly defined. The primary objective of this study was to find a 
mechanistic explanation for the remarkable clinical effect of the anti-CD20 mAbs 
in a representative nonhuman primate autoimmune-mediated inflammatory disorder
model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in common marmosets,
allowing detailed analysis of secondary lymphoid organs (SLO). We observed that
the depletion of CD20(+) B cells creates a less immunostimulatory environment in 
the SLO reflected by reduced expression of MHC class II, CD40, CD83, and
CD80/CD86. APCs isolated from SLO of B cell-depleted EAE monkeys were also less
responsive to mitogenic stimulation. The depleted B cell areas were replenished
by T cells, of which the majority expressed CD127 (IL-7R) and CCR7. Such effects 
were not detected in EAE marmosets treated with mAb against BLyS or APRIL, where 
B cell depletion via withdrawal of essential survival cytokines was not
associated with a marked clinical effect. We propose that at least part of the
efficacy of anti-CD20 mAb therapy is attributable to the sustained CCR7
expression on T cells within SLO, limiting their release into the circulation.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1303125 
PMID: 24696233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1427. J Opt Soc Am A Opt Image Sci Vis. 2014 Apr 1;31(4):A189-94. doi:
10.1364/JOSAA.31.00A189.

Specialized synaptic pathway for chromatic signals beneath S-cone photoreceptors 
is common to human, Old and New World primates.

Puller C, Manookin MB, Neitz M, Neitz J.

The distribution of the soluble NSF-attachment protein receptor protein
syntaxin-4 and the Na-K-Cl cotransporter (NKCC) were investigated in the outer
plexiform layer of human retina using immunohistochemistry. Both proteins, which 
are proposed to be components of a gamma-aminobutyric acid mediated feed-forward 
circuit from horizontal cells directly to bipolar cells, were enriched beneath
S-cones. The expression pattern of syntaxin-4 was further analyzed in baboon and 
marmoset to determine if the synaptic specialization is common to primates.
Syntaxin-4 was enriched beneath S-cones in both species, which together with the 
human results indicates that this specialization may have evolved for the purpose
of mediating unique color vision capacities that are exclusive to primates.

DOI: 10.1364/JOSAA.31.00A189 
PMCID: PMC4282935
PMID: 24695169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

