

143. J Comp Neurol. 2021 Sep;529(13):3274-3291. doi: 10.1002/cne.25167. Epub 2021 Jun 
9.

Sexually dimorphic perineuronal nets in the rodent and primate reproductive
circuit.

Ciccarelli A(1), Weijers D(1), Kwan W(2), Warner C(2), Bourne J(2), Gross CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Epigenetics & Neurobiology Unit, EMBL Rome, European Molecular Biology
Laboratory, Rome.
(2)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Perineuronal nets are extracellular glycoprotein structures that have been found 
on some neurons in the central nervous system and that have been shown to
regulate their structural plasticity. Until now work on perineuronal nets has
been focused on their role in cortical structures where they are selectively
expressed on parvalbumin-positive neurons and are reported to restrict the
experience-dependent plasticity of inhibitory afferents. Here, we examined the
expression of perineuronal nets subcortically, showing that they are expressed in
several discrete structures, including nuclei that comprise the brain network
controlling reproductive behaviors (e.g., mounting, lordosis, aggression, and
social defense). In particular, perineuronal nets were found in the posterior
dorsal division of the medial amygdala, the medial preoptic nucleus, the
posterior medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventrolateral
ventromedial hypothalamus and adjacent tuberal nucleus, and the ventral
premammillary nucleus in both the mouse and primate brain. Comparison of
perineuronal nets in male and female mice revealed a significant sexually
dimorphic expression, with expression found prominently on estrogen receptor
expressing neurons in the medial amygdala. These findings suggest that
perineuronal nets may be involved in regulating neural plasticity in the
mammalian reproductive system.

© 2021 The Authors. The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25167 
PMID: 33950531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Primates. 2021 Jul;62(4):659-666. doi: 10.1007/s10329-021-00913-x. Epub 2021 May 
4.

Wild robust capuchin monkey interactions with sympatric primates.

Falótico T(1)(2), Mendonça-Furtado O(3)(4)(5), Fogaça MD(3)(5)(6), Tokuda
M(5)(7), Ottoni EB(5), Verderane MP(3)(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Arts, Sciences and Humanities, University of São Paulo, Av. Arlindo 
Bettio, 1000, Prédio CMP1, Sala T6, São Paulo, SP, 03828-000, Brazil.
tfalotico@gmail.com.
(2)Neotropical Primates Research Group, São Paulo, Brazil. tfalotico@gmail.com.
(3)Neotropical Primates Research Group, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)National Institute for the Atlantic Forest, Santa Teresa, Brazil.
(5)Institute of Psychology, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(6)University of Veterinary Medicine Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(7)Quinzinho de Barros Municipal Zoological Park, Sorocaba, Brazil.

Examining interactions among sympatric primate species can provide interesting
information about competition, cooperation, and avoidance between those species. 
Those interactions can be neutral, positive, or negative for the species
involved. Capuchin monkeys are medium-sized primates that can encounter both
larger and smaller primates in their varied habitats. Gracile capuchins (Cebus)
are reported to present different types of interactions with other primates.
Interactions with howler monkeys frequently include physical aggression, while
interactions with spider monkeys are mostly threats and chases. Moreover,
interaction types are not consistent across populations. Among robust capuchins
(Sapajus spp.), however, no reports have been published. Here we describe and
classify encounters of Sapajus libidinosus and S. nigritus with Alouatta caraya, 
A. guariba, Brachyteles arachnoides, and Callithrix jacchus in three sites in the
environments of Cerrado, Caatinga (savannah-like), and Atlantic forest, and
compare the interaction patterns among sites and different group sizes. The
latter is a factor that can influence the outcome, and we expected capuchins in
larger groups to be more aggressive toward other primates. Our results of 8421 h 
of total contact with the capuchin groups show that, indeed, capuchins in sites
with larger groups presented aggressive interactions with higher frequency.
However, the other species' body size also seems important as smaller primates
apparently avoided capuchins, and interactions with the larger muriquis were
mostly neutral for the capuchin. Capuchins showed neutral or aggressive behaviors
toward howler monkeys, with differences between the rainforest and savannah
groups. We found that robust capuchins can present aggressive interactions even
to primates larger than themselves and that aggressive behavior was the most
common response in populations living in larger groups and drier environments.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-021-00913-x 
PMID: 33948760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

