

1436. Neurosci Bull. 2014 Jun;30(3):394-400. doi: 10.1007/s12264-013-1426-8. Epub 2014 
Mar 18.

A modified light-dark box test for the common marmoset.

Wang Y(1), Fang Q, Gong N.

Author information: 
(1)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai,
200240, China.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has attracted extensive attention for
use as a non-human primate model in biomedical research, especially in the study 
of neuropsychiatric disorders. However, behavioral test methods are still limited
in the field of marmoset research. The light-dark box is widely used for the
evaluation of anxiety in rodents, but little is known about light-dark preference
in marmosets. Here, we modified the light-dark test to study this behavior. The
modified apparatus consisted of three compartments: one transparent open area and
two closed opaque compartments. The closed compartments could be dark or light.
We found that both adult and young marmosets liked to explore the open area, but 
the young animals showed more interest than adults. Furthermore, when one of the 
closed compartments was light and the other dark, the adult marmosets showed a
preference for the dark compartment, but the young animals had no preference.
These results suggest that the exploratory behavior and the light-dark preference
in marmosets are age-dependent. Our study provides a new method to study
exploration, anxiety, and fear in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1007/s12264-013-1426-8 
PMCID: PMC5562607
PMID: 24638903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1437. J Neurosci. 2014 Mar 12;34(11):3821-5. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4491-13.2014.

Identification of a pathway from the retina to koniocellular layer K1 in the
lateral geniculate nucleus of marmoset.

Percival KA(1), Koizumi A, Masri RA, Buzás P, Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, and School of Medical Sciences,
The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia, Department of Cell
Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Myodaiji, Okazaki,
444-8585, Japan, Department of Physiological Sciences, School of Life Science,
The Graduate University for Advanced Studies (SOKENDAI), Okazaki 444-8787, Japan,
and Institute of Physiology, Medical School, University of Pécs, 7624 Pécs,
Hungary.

Three well characterized pathways in primate vision (midget-parvocellular,
parasol-magnocellular, bistratified-koniocellular) have been traced from the
first synapse in the retina, through the visual thalamus (lateral geniculate
nucleus, LGN), to the visual cortex. Here we identify a pathway from the first
synapse in the retina to koniocellular layer K1 in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). Particle-mediated gene transfer of an expression plasmid for the
postsynaptic density 95-green fluorescent protein (PSD95-GFP) was used to label
excitatory synapses on retinal ganglion cells and combined with
immunofluorescence to identify the presynaptic bipolar cells. We found that axon 
terminals of one type of diffuse bipolar cell (DB6) provide dominant synaptic
input to the dendrites of narrow thorny ganglion cells. Retrograde tracer
injections into the LGN and photofilling of retinal ganglion cells showed that
narrow thorny cells were preferentially labeled when koniocellular layer K1 was
targeted. Layer K1 contains cells with high sensitivity for rapid movement, and
layer K1 sends projections to association visual areas as well as to primary
visual cortex. We hypothesize that the DB6-narrow thorny-koniocellular pathway
contributes to residual visual functions ("blindsight") that survive injury to
primary visual cortex in adult or early life.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4491-13.2014 
PMCID: PMC6705273
PMID: 24623761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

