

1437. J Neurosci. 2014 Mar 12;34(11):3821-5. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4491-13.2014.

Identification of a pathway from the retina to koniocellular layer K1 in the
lateral geniculate nucleus of marmoset.

Percival KA(1), Koizumi A, Masri RA, Buzás P, Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, and School of Medical Sciences,
The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia, Department of Cell
Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Myodaiji, Okazaki,
444-8585, Japan, Department of Physiological Sciences, School of Life Science,
The Graduate University for Advanced Studies (SOKENDAI), Okazaki 444-8787, Japan,
and Institute of Physiology, Medical School, University of Pécs, 7624 Pécs,
Hungary.

Three well characterized pathways in primate vision (midget-parvocellular,
parasol-magnocellular, bistratified-koniocellular) have been traced from the
first synapse in the retina, through the visual thalamus (lateral geniculate
nucleus, LGN), to the visual cortex. Here we identify a pathway from the first
synapse in the retina to koniocellular layer K1 in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). Particle-mediated gene transfer of an expression plasmid for the
postsynaptic density 95-green fluorescent protein (PSD95-GFP) was used to label
excitatory synapses on retinal ganglion cells and combined with
immunofluorescence to identify the presynaptic bipolar cells. We found that axon 
terminals of one type of diffuse bipolar cell (DB6) provide dominant synaptic
input to the dendrites of narrow thorny ganglion cells. Retrograde tracer
injections into the LGN and photofilling of retinal ganglion cells showed that
narrow thorny cells were preferentially labeled when koniocellular layer K1 was
targeted. Layer K1 contains cells with high sensitivity for rapid movement, and
layer K1 sends projections to association visual areas as well as to primary
visual cortex. We hypothesize that the DB6-narrow thorny-koniocellular pathway
contributes to residual visual functions ("blindsight") that survive injury to
primary visual cortex in adult or early life.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4491-13.2014 
PMCID: PMC6705273
PMID: 24623761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1438. J Neuroendocrinol. 2014 May;26(5):296-309. doi: 10.1111/jne.12147.

Oestradiol modulation of cognition in adult female marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Lacreuse A(1), Chang J, Metevier CM, LaClair M, Meyer JS, Ferris CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) provides many advantages over
traditional rodent and macaque species as a model for human ageing and may be
very useful for studying the effects of sex steroids on cognitive and brain
ageing. We present the first study examining the effects of oestrogens on
cognitive function in female marmosets. Adult monkeys (3-5 years of age) were
trained to a specific learning criterion on a battery of cognitive tasks
preoperatively (object discrimination, delayed response with increasing delays
and detour reaching with opaque box) and were tested on different versions of
these tasks (object reversals, delayed response with randomised delays and detour
reaching with clear box) after ovariectomy and simultaneous implantation with
17β-oestradiol (E2 ) (n = 6) or blank (n = 6) Silastic capsules. Acquisition of a
delayed matching-to-position task with a 1-s delay was also administered after
completion of these tests. E2 -treated monkeys were significantly impaired on the
second reversal and showed an increase in perseverative responding from reversals
1-3. Their performance also tended to be worse than that of control monkeys on
the delayed response task. Performance acquisition on the delayed
matching-to-position tended to be better in E2 -treated relative to control
monkeys, although the group difference did not reach statistical significance. No
effect of treatment was detected for detour reaching or affiliative behaviours.
Overall, the findings indicate that E2 compromises performance on
prefrontally-mediated tasks. The suggestion that E2 may improve acquisition on
tasks dependent on the hippocampus will require further validation. These results
are discussed in the context of dopaminergic and serotonergic signalling. We
conclude that the marmoset is a useful new primate model for examining the
effects of oestrogens on cognitive function.

© 2014 British Society for Neuroendocrinology.

DOI: 10.1111/jne.12147 
PMCID: PMC4040528
PMID: 24617856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

