

1438. J Neuroendocrinol. 2014 May;26(5):296-309. doi: 10.1111/jne.12147.

Oestradiol modulation of cognition in adult female marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Lacreuse A(1), Chang J, Metevier CM, LaClair M, Meyer JS, Ferris CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) provides many advantages over
traditional rodent and macaque species as a model for human ageing and may be
very useful for studying the effects of sex steroids on cognitive and brain
ageing. We present the first study examining the effects of oestrogens on
cognitive function in female marmosets. Adult monkeys (3-5 years of age) were
trained to a specific learning criterion on a battery of cognitive tasks
preoperatively (object discrimination, delayed response with increasing delays
and detour reaching with opaque box) and were tested on different versions of
these tasks (object reversals, delayed response with randomised delays and detour
reaching with clear box) after ovariectomy and simultaneous implantation with
17β-oestradiol (E2 ) (n = 6) or blank (n = 6) Silastic capsules. Acquisition of a
delayed matching-to-position task with a 1-s delay was also administered after
completion of these tests. E2 -treated monkeys were significantly impaired on the
second reversal and showed an increase in perseverative responding from reversals
1-3. Their performance also tended to be worse than that of control monkeys on
the delayed response task. Performance acquisition on the delayed
matching-to-position tended to be better in E2 -treated relative to control
monkeys, although the group difference did not reach statistical significance. No
effect of treatment was detected for detour reaching or affiliative behaviours.
Overall, the findings indicate that E2 compromises performance on
prefrontally-mediated tasks. The suggestion that E2 may improve acquisition on
tasks dependent on the hippocampus will require further validation. These results
are discussed in the context of dopaminergic and serotonergic signalling. We
conclude that the marmoset is a useful new primate model for examining the
effects of oestrogens on cognitive function.

© 2014 British Society for Neuroendocrinology.

DOI: 10.1111/jne.12147 
PMCID: PMC4040528
PMID: 24617856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1439. Eur J Neurosci. 2014 May;39(9):1419-28. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12514. Epub 2014 Mar 11.

EphA4 is associated with multiple cell types in the marmoset primary visual
cortex throughout the lifespan.

Goldshmit Y(1), Homman-Ludiye J, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Building 75,
Clayton, Vic., 3800, Australia.

Ephs form the largest family of receptor tyrosine kinases. They interact with the
membrane-bound ligands - ephrins - to control crucial aspects of brain
development. EphA4 is the most prominent member of the family in terms of
versatility and ability to bind most ephrin ligands. EphA4 regulates brain
development by modulating neuronal migration and connectivity. In the present
study, we address the involvement of EphA4 in patterning the primary visual
cortex (V1) of the marmoset monkey by characterizing the cellular expression
profile of EphA4 from late embryonic stages to adulthood. We identified
continuous expression on neurons in the cortical plate and mature neocortical
layers, similar to that described in the mouse, excluding a role for EphA4 in the
formation of borders between visual areas in the marmoset neocortex. In addition 
to neurons, we also report expression of EphA4 on glial populations, including
radial glia and astrocytes. In contrast to what is seen in the mouse, EphA4
expression on astrocytes persists in the adult marmoset V1, including around
blood vessels and in the white matter. Robust expression by glial populations,
which retain neurogenic properties in the postnatal marmoset, indicates that
EphA4 may have acquired additional roles during evolution, with important
implications for the benefits of EphA4-blocking therapies following brain injury.

© 2014 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12514 
PMID: 24611983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

