

1439. Eur J Neurosci. 2014 May;39(9):1419-28. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12514. Epub 2014 Mar 11.

EphA4 is associated with multiple cell types in the marmoset primary visual
cortex throughout the lifespan.

Goldshmit Y(1), Homman-Ludiye J, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Building 75,
Clayton, Vic., 3800, Australia.

Ephs form the largest family of receptor tyrosine kinases. They interact with the
membrane-bound ligands - ephrins - to control crucial aspects of brain
development. EphA4 is the most prominent member of the family in terms of
versatility and ability to bind most ephrin ligands. EphA4 regulates brain
development by modulating neuronal migration and connectivity. In the present
study, we address the involvement of EphA4 in patterning the primary visual
cortex (V1) of the marmoset monkey by characterizing the cellular expression
profile of EphA4 from late embryonic stages to adulthood. We identified
continuous expression on neurons in the cortical plate and mature neocortical
layers, similar to that described in the mouse, excluding a role for EphA4 in the
formation of borders between visual areas in the marmoset neocortex. In addition 
to neurons, we also report expression of EphA4 on glial populations, including
radial glia and astrocytes. In contrast to what is seen in the mouse, EphA4
expression on astrocytes persists in the adult marmoset V1, including around
blood vessels and in the white matter. Robust expression by glial populations,
which retain neurogenic properties in the postnatal marmoset, indicates that
EphA4 may have acquired additional roles during evolution, with important
implications for the benefits of EphA4-blocking therapies following brain injury.

Â© 2014 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12514 
PMID: 24611983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1440. J Immunol. 2014 Apr 1;192(7):3239-46. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302745. Epub 2014
Mar 5.

Genomic sequence analysis of the MHC class I G/F segment in common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Kono A(1), Brameier M, Roos C, Suzuki S, Shigenari A, Kametani Y, Kitaura K,
Matsutani T, Suzuki R, Inoko H, Walter L, Shiina T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Medical Science and Molecular Medicine, Department of
Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine, Isehara, Kanagawa
259-1143, Japan;

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World monkey that is used
frequently as a model for various human diseases. However, detailed knowledge
about the MHC is still lacking. In this study, we sequenced and annotated a total
of 854 kb of the common marmoset MHC region that corresponds to the HLA-A/G/F
segment (Caja-G/F) between the Caja-G1 and RNF39 genes. The sequenced region
contains 19 MHC class I genes, of which 14 are of the MHC-G (Caja-G) type, and 5 
are of the MHC-F (Caja-F) type. Six putatively functional Caja-G and Caja-F genes
(Caja-G1, Caja-G3, Caja-G7, Caja-G12, Caja-G13, and Caja-F4), 13 pseudogenes
related either to Caja-G or Caja-F, three non-MHC genes (ZNRD1, PPPIR11, and
RNF39), two miscRNA genes (ZNRD1-AS1 and HCG8), and one non-MHC pseudogene
(ETF1P1) were identified. Phylogenetic analysis suggests segmental duplications
of units consisting of basically five (four Caja-G and one Caja-F) MHC class I
genes, with subsequent expansion/deletion of genes. A similar genomic
organization of the Caja-G/F segment has not been observed in catarrhine
primates, indicating that this genomic segment was formed in New World monkeys
after the split of New World and Old World monkeys.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302745 
PMID: 24600031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

