

144. Primates. 2021 Jul;62(4):659-666. doi: 10.1007/s10329-021-00913-x. Epub 2021 May 
4.

Wild robust capuchin monkey interactions with sympatric primates.

Falótico T(1)(2), Mendonça-Furtado O(3)(4)(5), Fogaça MD(3)(5)(6), Tokuda
M(5)(7), Ottoni EB(5), Verderane MP(3)(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Arts, Sciences and Humanities, University of São Paulo, Av. Arlindo 
Bettio, 1000, Prédio CMP1, Sala T6, São Paulo, SP, 03828-000, Brazil.
tfalotico@gmail.com.
(2)Neotropical Primates Research Group, São Paulo, Brazil. tfalotico@gmail.com.
(3)Neotropical Primates Research Group, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)National Institute for the Atlantic Forest, Santa Teresa, Brazil.
(5)Institute of Psychology, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(6)University of Veterinary Medicine Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(7)Quinzinho de Barros Municipal Zoological Park, Sorocaba, Brazil.

Examining interactions among sympatric primate species can provide interesting
information about competition, cooperation, and avoidance between those species. 
Those interactions can be neutral, positive, or negative for the species
involved. Capuchin monkeys are medium-sized primates that can encounter both
larger and smaller primates in their varied habitats. Gracile capuchins (Cebus)
are reported to present different types of interactions with other primates.
Interactions with howler monkeys frequently include physical aggression, while
interactions with spider monkeys are mostly threats and chases. Moreover,
interaction types are not consistent across populations. Among robust capuchins
(Sapajus spp.), however, no reports have been published. Here we describe and
classify encounters of Sapajus libidinosus and S. nigritus with Alouatta caraya, 
A. guariba, Brachyteles arachnoides, and Callithrix jacchus in three sites in the
environments of Cerrado, Caatinga (savannah-like), and Atlantic forest, and
compare the interaction patterns among sites and different group sizes. The
latter is a factor that can influence the outcome, and we expected capuchins in
larger groups to be more aggressive toward other primates. Our results of 8421 h 
of total contact with the capuchin groups show that, indeed, capuchins in sites
with larger groups presented aggressive interactions with higher frequency.
However, the other species' body size also seems important as smaller primates
apparently avoided capuchins, and interactions with the larger muriquis were
mostly neutral for the capuchin. Capuchins showed neutral or aggressive behaviors
toward howler monkeys, with differences between the rainforest and savannah
groups. We found that robust capuchins can present aggressive interactions even
to primates larger than themselves and that aggressive behavior was the most
common response in populations living in larger groups and drier environments.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-021-00913-x 
PMID: 33948760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Front Syst Neurosci. 2021 Apr 15;15:645308. doi: 10.3389/fnsys.2021.645308.
eCollection 2021.

Motility Profile of Captive-Bred Marmosets Revealed by a Long-Term In-Cage
Monitoring System.

Koizumi M(1), Nogami N(1), Owari K(1), Kawanobe A(1), Nakatani T(1), Seki K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

A quantitative evaluation of motility is crucial for studies employing
experimental animals. Here, we describe the development of an in-cage motility
monitoring method for new world monkeys using off-the-shelf components, and
demonstrate its capability for long-term operation (e.g., a year). Based on this 
novel system, we characterized the motility of the common marmoset over different
time scales (seconds, hours, days, and weeks). Monitoring of seven young animals 
belonging to two different age groups (sub-adult and young-adult) over a 231-day 
period revealed: (1) strictly diurnal activity (97.3% of movement during
daytime), (2) short-cycle (∼20 s) transition in activity, and (3) bimodal diurnal
activity including a "siesta" break. Additionally, while the mean duration of
short-cycle activity, net daily activity, and diurnal activity changed over the
course of development, 24-h periodicity remained constant. Finally, the method
allowed for detection of progressive motility deterioration in a transgenic
marmoset. Motility measurement offers a convenient way to characterize
developmental and pathological changes in animals, as well as an economical and
labor-free means for long-term evaluation in a wide range of basic and
translational studies.

Copyright © 2021 Koizumi, Nogami, Owari, Kawanobe, Nakatani and Seki.

DOI: 10.3389/fnsys.2021.645308 
PMCID: PMC8081884
PMID: 33935661 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

