

1440. J Immunol. 2014 Apr 1;192(7):3239-46. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302745. Epub 2014
Mar 5.

Genomic sequence analysis of the MHC class I G/F segment in common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Kono A(1), Brameier M, Roos C, Suzuki S, Shigenari A, Kametani Y, Kitaura K,
Matsutani T, Suzuki R, Inoko H, Walter L, Shiina T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Medical Science and Molecular Medicine, Department of
Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine, Isehara, Kanagawa
259-1143, Japan;

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World monkey that is used
frequently as a model for various human diseases. However, detailed knowledge
about the MHC is still lacking. In this study, we sequenced and annotated a total
of 854 kb of the common marmoset MHC region that corresponds to the HLA-A/G/F
segment (Caja-G/F) between the Caja-G1 and RNF39 genes. The sequenced region
contains 19 MHC class I genes, of which 14 are of the MHC-G (Caja-G) type, and 5 
are of the MHC-F (Caja-F) type. Six putatively functional Caja-G and Caja-F genes
(Caja-G1, Caja-G3, Caja-G7, Caja-G12, Caja-G13, and Caja-F4), 13 pseudogenes
related either to Caja-G or Caja-F, three non-MHC genes (ZNRD1, PPPIR11, and
RNF39), two miscRNA genes (ZNRD1-AS1 and HCG8), and one non-MHC pseudogene
(ETF1P1) were identified. Phylogenetic analysis suggests segmental duplications
of units consisting of basically five (four Caja-G and one Caja-F) MHC class I
genes, with subsequent expansion/deletion of genes. A similar genomic
organization of the Caja-G/F segment has not been observed in catarrhine
primates, indicating that this genomic segment was formed in New World monkeys
after the split of New World and Old World monkeys.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302745 
PMID: 24600031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1441. Folia Morphol (Warsz). 2014 Feb;73(1):37-41. doi: 10.5603/FM.2013.0064.

Gross morphometry of the heart of the Common marmoset.

Senos R(1), Benedicto HG, del Rio do Valle CM, del Rio do Valle R, Nayudu PL,
Kfoury Junior JR, Bombonato PP.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de SÃ£o Paulo Universidade Federal Fluminense.
rafaelsenos@yahoo.com.br.

The Callithrix jacchus is a Brazilian endemic species that has been widely used
as an experimental model in biomedical research. Anatomical data are necessary to
support experimental studies with this species. Eleven hearts of C. jacchus from 
the German Primate Centre (DPZ) have been studied in order to characterize their 
gross morphometry and compare them with other animal models and human. Biometric 
data were also obtained. The mean values for morphometry of the hearts did not
show any significant difference between male and female. The relative heart
weight was similar to human, bovine and equine species. Considering those
aspects, the C. jacchus could be used as non-human primate experimental model for
biomedical studies on heart.

DOI: 10.5603/FM.2013.0064 
PMID: 24590521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

