

1441. Folia Morphol (Warsz). 2014 Feb;73(1):37-41. doi: 10.5603/FM.2013.0064.

Gross morphometry of the heart of the Common marmoset.

Senos R(1), Benedicto HG, del Rio do Valle CM, del Rio do Valle R, Nayudu PL,
Kfoury Junior JR, Bombonato PP.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de SÃ£o Paulo Universidade Federal Fluminense.
rafaelsenos@yahoo.com.br.

The Callithrix jacchus is a Brazilian endemic species that has been widely used
as an experimental model in biomedical research. Anatomical data are necessary to
support experimental studies with this species. Eleven hearts of C. jacchus from 
the German Primate Centre (DPZ) have been studied in order to characterize their 
gross morphometry and compare them with other animal models and human. Biometric 
data were also obtained. The mean values for morphometry of the hearts did not
show any significant difference between male and female. The relative heart
weight was similar to human, bovine and equine species. Considering those
aspects, the C. jacchus could be used as non-human primate experimental model for
biomedical studies on heart.

DOI: 10.5603/FM.2013.0064 
PMID: 24590521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1442. Indian J Exp Biol. 2013 Dec;51(12):1055-62.

Polymeric nanoparticle formulation of octapeptide (NP-OP): in vitro release and
in vivo effect in common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus Linn.

Nandedkar TD(1), Sagvekar P(2), Thakur B(2), Navlakhe R(2), Chitnis S(2), Mahale 
SD(2), D'Souza S(2), Patel KD(3), Vavia PR(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR), Parel, Mumbai
400 012, India. cellbioirr@rediffmail.com
(2)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR), Parel, Mumbai
400 012, India.
(3)Institute of Chemical Technology, Matunga, Mumbai 400 019, India.

Octapeptide (OP)/FSH-Receptor Binding Inhibitor-8 (FRBI-8), is a synthetic
peptide corresponding to N-terminal sequence of purified fraction of Follicle
Stimulating Hormone Binding-Inhibitor (FSHBI), isolated earlier from human
ovarian follicular-fluid. In order to avoid the repeated drug-administration,
OP-loaded, polymeric polylactide (PLA) nanoparticle formulation (NP-OP), was
developed using multiple-emulsion technique. This yielded an average particle
size of 120 nm with 70% encapsulation-efficiency. In vitro release profile of
NP-OP showed sustained release of OP for 21 days. In vivo anti-fertility studies 
were conducted in marmosets. Results indicated that control animals conceived in 
the same cycle while two of three treated animals failed to conceive in treatment
cycle. The in vivo studies thus corroborate with in vitro release of OP,
demonstrating its anti-fertility activity in 66% of animals.


PMID: 24579370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

