

1442. Indian J Exp Biol. 2013 Dec;51(12):1055-62.

Polymeric nanoparticle formulation of octapeptide (NP-OP): in vitro release and
in vivo effect in common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus Linn.

Nandedkar TD(1), Sagvekar P(2), Thakur B(2), Navlakhe R(2), Chitnis S(2), Mahale 
SD(2), D'Souza S(2), Patel KD(3), Vavia PR(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR), Parel, Mumbai
400 012, India. cellbioirr@rediffmail.com
(2)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR), Parel, Mumbai
400 012, India.
(3)Institute of Chemical Technology, Matunga, Mumbai 400 019, India.

Octapeptide (OP)/FSH-Receptor Binding Inhibitor-8 (FRBI-8), is a synthetic
peptide corresponding to N-terminal sequence of purified fraction of Follicle
Stimulating Hormone Binding-Inhibitor (FSHBI), isolated earlier from human
ovarian follicular-fluid. In order to avoid the repeated drug-administration,
OP-loaded, polymeric polylactide (PLA) nanoparticle formulation (NP-OP), was
developed using multiple-emulsion technique. This yielded an average particle
size of 120 nm with 70% encapsulation-efficiency. In vitro release profile of
NP-OP showed sustained release of OP for 21 days. In vivo anti-fertility studies 
were conducted in marmosets. Results indicated that control animals conceived in 
the same cycle while two of three treated animals failed to conceive in treatment
cycle. The in vivo studies thus corroborate with in vitro release of OP,
demonstrating its anti-fertility activity in 66% of animals.


PMID: 24579370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1443. Am J Primatol. 2014 Aug;76(8):747-56. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22266. Epub 2014 Feb 21.

Exceptional expansion and conservation of a CT-repeat complex in the core
promoter of PAXBP1 in primates.

Mohammadparast S(1), Bayat H, Biglarian A, Ohadi M.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Research Center, University of Social Welfare and Rehabilitation
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Adaptive evolution may be linked with the genomic distribution and function of
short tandem repeats (STRs). Proximity of the core promoter STRs to the +1
transcription start site (TSS), and their mutable nature are characteristics that
highlight those STRs as a novel source of interspecies variation. The PAXBP1 gene
(alternatively known as GCFC1) core promoter contains the longest STR identified 
in a Homo sapiens gene core promoter. Indeed, this core promoter is a stretch of 
four consecutive CT-STRs. In the current study, we used the Ensembl, NCBI, and
UCSC databases to analyze the evolutionary trend and functional implication of
this CT-STR complex in six major lineages across vertebrates, including primates,
non-primate mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish. We observed
exceptional expansion (≥4-repeats) and conservation of this CT-STR complex across
primates, except prosimians, Microcebus murinus and Otolemur garnettii (Fisher
exact P<4.1×10(-7)). H. sapiens has the most complex STR formula, and longest
repeats. Macaca mulatta and Callithrix jacchus monkeys have the simplest STR
formulas, and shortest repeat numbers. CT≥4-repeats were not detected in
non-primate lineages. Different length alleles across the PAXBP1 core promoter
CT-STRs significantly altered gene expression in vitro (P<0.001, t-test). PAXBP1 
has a crucial role in craniofacial development, myogenesis, and spine
morphogenesis, properties that have been diverged between primates and
non-primates. To our knowledge, this is the first instance of expansion and
conservation of a STR complex co-occurring specifically with the primate lineage.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22266 
PMID: 24573656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

