

1447. Pathog Dis. 2014 Jul;71(2):227-33. doi: 10.1111/2049-632X.12157. Epub 2014 Mar
13.

Differences in aerosolization of Rift Valley fever virus resulting from choice of
inhalation exposure chamber: implications for animal challenge studies.

Reed DS(1), Bethel LM, Powell DS, Caroline AL, Hartman AL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Vaccine Research, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA;
Department of Immunology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

The aerosol characteristics of Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) were evaluated to
achieve reproducible infection of experimental animals with aerosolized RVFV
suitable for animal efficacy studies. Spray factor (SF), the ratio between the
concentrations of the aerosolized agent to the agent in the aerosol generator, is
used to compare performance differences between aerosol exposures. SF indicates
the efficiency of the aerosolization process; a higher SF means a lower nebulizer
concentration is needed to achieve a desired inhaled dose. Relative humidity
levels as well as the duration of the exposure and choice of exposure chamber all
impacted RVFV SF. Differences were also noted between actual and predicted minute
volumes for different species of nonhuman primates. While NHP from Old World
species (Macaca fascicularis, M. mulatta, Chlorocebus aethiops) generally had a
lower actual minute volume than predicted, the actual minute volume for marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) was higher than predicted (150% for marmosets compared with 
an average of 35% for all other species examined). All of these factors (relative
humidity, chamber, duration, and minute volume) impact the ability to reliably
and reproducibly deliver a specific dose of aerosolized RVFV. The implications of
these findings for future pivotal efficacy studies are discussed.

© 2014 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/2049-632X.12157 
PMCID: PMC4809971
PMID: 24532259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1448. Am J Primatol. 2014 Mar;76(3):239-48. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22228. Epub 2013 Oct 29.

Behavioral responses to social separation stressor change across development and 
are dynamically related to HPA activity in marmosets.

Taylor JH(1), Mustoe AC, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska-Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska;
Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, Omaha, Nebraska.

Psychosocial stressors activate two distinct stress-response systems, a central, 
behavioral response, and a peripheral, endocrine response. Both behavioral and
endocrine responses to stressors are subject to individual and developmental
variables, but it is not known whether stressor induced behaviors are stable
across development, and how they correspond with changes in the endocrine
component of the stress response. We characterized the development and stability 
of behavioral responses to a mild psychosocial stressor in marmosets (Callithrix 
geoffroyi), and assessed the degree to which the behavioral and endocrine
stress-response systems were co-activated. The behavioral response to stressors
was stable within individuals, but only some stressor-induced behaviors changed
as the monkeys developed. Overall, there was more variability in the development 
of behavioral responses compared to stress-induced endocrine profiles found
previously [French et al., 2012. Horm Behav 61:196-203]. In young marmosets, only
increased alarm calling was correlated with increased cortisol reactivity, and in
older marmosets increased cage manipulations and motor activity were associated
with poorer post-stressor cortisol regulation. Because these relationships were
so few, we conclude that while the behavioral and endocrine systems follow a
similar developmental trajectory, each system maintains a level of independence. 
Furthermore, the relationship between stressor-induced behaviors and HPA activity
changes across development.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22228 
PMCID: PMC5375030
PMID: 24532179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

