

1450. Cancer Sci. 2014 Apr;105(4):402-8. doi: 10.1111/cas.12367. Epub 2014 Apr 5.

Characterization of common marmoset dysgerminoma-like tumor induced by the
lentiviral expression of reprogramming factors.

Yamaguchi S(1), Marumoto T, Nii T, Kawano H, Liao J, Nagai Y, Okada M, Takahashi 
A, Inoue H, Sasaki E, Fujii H, Okano S, Ebise H, Sato T, Suyama M, Okano H, Miura
Y, Tani K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Molecular and Clinical Genetics, 
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

Recent generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPSCs) has made a significant
impact on the field of human regenerative medicine. Prior to the clinical
application of iPSCs, testing of their safety and usefulness must be carried out 
using reliable animal models of various diseases. In order to generate iPSCs from
common marmoset (CM; Callithrix jacchus), one of the most useful experimental
animals, we have lentivirally transduced reprogramming factors, including POU5F1 
(also known as OCT3/4), SOX2, KLF4, and c-MYC into CM fibroblasts. The cells
formed round colonies expressing embryonic stem cell markers, however, they
showed an abnormal karyotype denoted as 46, X, del(4q), +mar, and formed human
dysgerminoma-like tumors in SCID mice, indicating that the transduction of
reprogramming factors caused unexpected tumorigenesis of CM cells. Moreover, CM
dysgerminoma-like tumors were highly sensitive to DNA-damaging agents,
irradiation, and fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor, and their growth
was dependent on c-MYC expression. These results indicate that DNA-damaging
agents, irradiation, fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor, and
c-MYC-targeted therapies might represent effective treatment strategies for
unexpected tumors in patients receiving iPSC-based therapy.

© 2014 The Authors. Cancer Science published by Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd on 
behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.12367 
PMCID: PMC4317795
PMID: 24521492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1451. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Feb 25;111(8):E768-75. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1401165111. Epub 2014 Feb 10.

Lipid domains control myelin basic protein adsorption and membrane interactions
between model myelin lipid bilayers.

Lee DW(1), Banquy X, Kristiansen K, Kaufman Y, Boggs JM, Israelachvili JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara,
CA 93106.

The surface forces apparatus and atomic force microscope were used to study the
effects of lipid composition and concentrations of myelin basic protein (MBP) on 
the structure of model lipid bilayers, as well as the interaction forces and
adhesion between them. The lipid bilayers had a lipid composition characteristic 
of the cytoplasmic leaflets of myelin from "normal" (healthy) and "disease-like" 
[experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE)] animals. They showed significant 
differences in the adsorption mechanism of MBP. MBP adsorbs on normal bilayers to
form a compact film (3-4 nm) with strong intermembrane adhesion (∼0.36 mJ/m(2)), 
in contrast to its formation of thicker (7-8 nm) swelled films with weaker
intermembrane adhesion (∼0.13 mJ/m(2)) on EAE bilayers. MBP preferentially
adsorbs to liquid-disordered submicron domains within the lipid membranes,
attributed to hydrophobic attractions. These results show a direct connection
between the lipid composition of membranes and membrane-protein adsorption
mechanisms that affects intermembrane spacing and adhesion and has direct
implications for demyelinating diseases.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1401165111 
PMCID: PMC3939865
PMID: 24516125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

