

1451. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Feb 25;111(8):E768-75. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1401165111. Epub 2014 Feb 10.

Lipid domains control myelin basic protein adsorption and membrane interactions
between model myelin lipid bilayers.

Lee DW(1), Banquy X, Kristiansen K, Kaufman Y, Boggs JM, Israelachvili JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara,
CA 93106.

The surface forces apparatus and atomic force microscope were used to study the
effects of lipid composition and concentrations of myelin basic protein (MBP) on 
the structure of model lipid bilayers, as well as the interaction forces and
adhesion between them. The lipid bilayers had a lipid composition characteristic 
of the cytoplasmic leaflets of myelin from "normal" (healthy) and "disease-like" 
[experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE)] animals. They showed significant 
differences in the adsorption mechanism of MBP. MBP adsorbs on normal bilayers to
form a compact film (3-4 nm) with strong intermembrane adhesion (∼0.36 mJ/m(2)), 
in contrast to its formation of thicker (7-8 nm) swelled films with weaker
intermembrane adhesion (∼0.13 mJ/m(2)) on EAE bilayers. MBP preferentially
adsorbs to liquid-disordered submicron domains within the lipid membranes,
attributed to hydrophobic attractions. These results show a direct connection
between the lipid composition of membranes and membrane-protein adsorption
mechanisms that affects intermembrane spacing and adhesion and has direct
implications for demyelinating diseases.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1401165111 
PMCID: PMC3939865
PMID: 24516125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1452. Dev Psychobiol. 2014 Sep;56(6):1229-43. doi: 10.1002/dev.21203. Epub 2014 Feb 10.

Gestational cortisol and social play shape development of marmosets' HPA
functioning and behavioral responses to stressors.

Mustoe AC(1), Taylor JH, Birnie AK, Huffman MC, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, 6001 Dodge Street, Omaha, NE, 68182. amustoe@unomaha.edu.

Both gestational cortisol exposure (GCE) and variability in postnatal
environments can shape the later-life behavioral and endocrine outcomes of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. We examined the influence of GCE and
social play on HPA functioning in developing marmosets. Maternal urinary cortisol
samples were collected across pregnancy to determine GCE for 28 marmoset
offspring (19 litters). We administered a social separation stressor to offspring
at 6, 12, and 18 months of age, during which we collected urinary cortisol
samples and behavioral observations. Increased GCE was associated with increased 
basal cortisol levels and cortisol reactivity, but the strength of this
relationship decreased across age. Increased social play was associated with
decreased basal cortisol levels and a marginally greater reduction in cortisol
reactivity as offspring aged, regardless of offspring GCE. Thus, GCE is
associated with HPA functioning, but socially enriching postnatal environments
can alter the effects associated with increased fetal exposure to
glucocorticoids.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.21203 
PMCID: PMC5996393
PMID: 24510474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

