

1452. Dev Psychobiol. 2014 Sep;56(6):1229-43. doi: 10.1002/dev.21203. Epub 2014 Feb 10.

Gestational cortisol and social play shape development of marmosets' HPA
functioning and behavioral responses to stressors.

Mustoe AC(1), Taylor JH, Birnie AK, Huffman MC, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, 6001 Dodge Street, Omaha, NE, 68182. amustoe@unomaha.edu.

Both gestational cortisol exposure (GCE) and variability in postnatal
environments can shape the later-life behavioral and endocrine outcomes of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. We examined the influence of GCE and
social play on HPA functioning in developing marmosets. Maternal urinary cortisol
samples were collected across pregnancy to determine GCE for 28 marmoset
offspring (19 litters). We administered a social separation stressor to offspring
at 6, 12, and 18 months of age, during which we collected urinary cortisol
samples and behavioral observations. Increased GCE was associated with increased 
basal cortisol levels and cortisol reactivity, but the strength of this
relationship decreased across age. Increased social play was associated with
decreased basal cortisol levels and a marginally greater reduction in cortisol
reactivity as offspring aged, regardless of offspring GCE. Thus, GCE is
associated with HPA functioning, but socially enriching postnatal environments
can alter the effects associated with increased fetal exposure to
glucocorticoids.

Â© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.21203 
PMCID: PMC5996393
PMID: 24510474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1453. Folia Histochem Cytobiol. 2013;51(4):292-9. doi: 10.5603/FHC.2013.0040.

Characterization of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) bone marrow-derived
mesenchymal stem cells.

Kanda A, Sotomaru Y(1), Nobukiyo A, Yamaoka E, Hiyama E.

Author information: 
(1)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, Hiroshima, Japan. yusuke@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) could be useful for regenerative medicine because
they can beharvested easily from the bone marrow of living donors and the cells
can be differentiated into adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic lineages in
vitro. To apply MSCs for the medical treatment of human diseases as regenerative 
medicine, detailed experimental characterization of the cells is required.
Recently, a New World primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), has been
widely used as a new human disease model because of its ease of handling and
breeding. Although common marmoset MSCs have been established and will be used in
preclinical studies of regenerative medicine, the characteristics of these cells 
remain unclear. Aiming to characterize common marmoset MSCs further, we harvested
common marmoset bone marrow-derived cells (cmBMDCs) from the femurs of newborn
males. We revealed that the morphology of the cells was similar to common
marmoset fibroblasts, and extracellular matrix components, such as gelatin and
fibronectin, were effective for their proliferation and formation of
colony-forming unit fibroblasts. Furthermore, we were able to differentiate
cmBMDCs into adipocytes, osteocytes, and chondrocytes in vitro, and they
expressed the MSCmarkers CD44, CD73, CD90, and CD105, but their expression
decreased with increasing passage number. The data demonstrate that cmBMDCs
exhibit characteristics of MSCs and thus it would be beneficial to use these
cells in preclinical studies.

DOI: 10.5603/FHC.2013.0040 
PMID: 24497134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

