

1454. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2014 Feb 14;444(3):302-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.01.024. Epub 2014 Jan 30.

Developmental expression profiles of axon guidance signaling and the immune
system in the marmoset cortex: potential molecular mechanisms of pruning of
dendritic spines during primate synapse formation in late infancy and prepuberty 
(I).

Sasaki T(1), Oga T(2), Nakagaki K(1), Sakai K(1), Sumida K(3), Hoshino K(4),
Miyawaki I(4), Saito K(3), Suto F(1), Ichinohe N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan; Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University,
Toyonaka, Osaka 560-8531, Japan.
(3)Environmental Health Science Laboratory, Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-8558, Japan.
(4)Preclinical Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-0022, Japan.
(5)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan. Electronic address: nichino@ncnp.go.jp.

The synapse number and the related dendritic spine number in the cerebral cortex 
of primates shows a rapid increase after birth. Depending on the brain region and
species, the number of synapses reaches a peak before adulthood, and pruning
takes place after this peak (overshoot-type synaptic formation). Human mental
disorders, such as autism and schizophrenia, are hypothesized to be a result of
either too weak or excessive pruning after the peak is reached. Thus, it is
important to study the molecular mechanisms underlying overshoot-type synaptic
formation, particularly the pruning phase. To examine the molecular mechanisms,
we used common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Microarray analysis of the
marmoset cortex was performed in the ventrolateral prefrontal, inferior temporal,
and primary visual cortices, where changes in the number of dendritic spines have
been observed. The spine number of all the brain regions above showed a peak at 3
months (3 M) after birth and gradually decreased (e.g., at 6 M and in adults). In
this study, we focused on genes that showed differential expression between ages 
of 3 M and 6 M and on the differences whose fold change (FC) was greater than
1.2. The selected genes were subjected to canonical pathway analysis, and in this
study, we describe axon guidance signaling, which had high plausibility. The
results showed a large number of genes belonging to subsystems within the axon
guidance signaling pathway, macrophages/immune system, glutamate system, and
others. We divided the data and discussion of these results into 2 papers, and
this is the first paper, which deals with the axon guidance signaling and
macrophage/immune system. Other systems will be described in the next paper. Many
components of subsystems within the axon guidance signaling underwent changes in 
gene expression from 3 M to 6 M so that the synapse/dendritic spine number would 
decrease at 6 M. Thus, axon guidance signaling probably contributes to the
decrease in synapse/dendritic spine number at 6 M, the phenomenon that fits the
overshoot-type synaptic formation in primates. Microglial activity (evaluated by 
quantifying AIF1 expression) and gene expression of molecules that modulate
microglia, decreased at 6 M, just like the synapse/dendritic spine number. Thus, 
although microglial activity is believed to be related to phagocytosis of
synapses/dendritic spines, microglial activity alone cannot explain how pruning
was accelerated in the pruning phase. On the other hand, expression of molecules 
that tag synapses/dendritic spines as a target of phagocytosis by microglia
(e.g., complement components) increased at 6 M, suggesting that these tagging
proteins may be involved in the acceleration of pruning during the pruning phase.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.01.024 
PMID: 24485715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1455. J Comp Neurol. 2014 Aug 1;522(11):2553-75. doi: 10.1002/cne.23549.

Distribution of neurotransmitter receptors and zinc in the pigeon (Columba livia)
hippocampal formation: A basis for further comparison with the mammalian
hippocampus.

Herold C(1), Bingman VP, Ströckens F, Letzner S, Sauvage M, Palomero-Gallagher N,
Zilles K, Güntürkün O.

Author information: 
(1)C. & O. Vogt Institute of Brain Research, University of Düsseldorf, 40225,
Düsseldorf, Germany.

The avian hippocampal formation (HF) and mammalian hippocampus share a similar
functional role in spatial cognition, but the underlying neuronal mechanisms
allowing the functional similarity are incompletely understood. To understand
better the organization of the avian HF and its transmitter receptors, we
analyzed binding site densities for glutamatergic AMPA, NMDA, and kainate
receptors; GABAA receptors; muscarinic M1 , M2 and nicotinic (nACh) acetylcholine
receptors; noradrenergic α1 and α2 receptors; serotonergic 5-HT1A receptors;
dopaminergic D1/5 receptors by using quantitative in vitro receptor
autoradiography. Additionally, we performed a modified Timm staining procedure to
label zinc. The regionally different receptor densities mapped well onto seven HF
subdivisions previously described. Several differences in receptor expression
highlighted distinct HF subdivisions. Notable examples include 1) high GABAA and 
α1 receptor expression, which rendered distinctive ventral subdivisions; 2) high 
α2 receptor expression, which rendered distinctive a dorsomedial subdivision; 3) 
distinct kainate, α2 , and muscarinic receptor densities that rendered
distinctive the two dorsolateral subdivisions; and 4) a dorsomedial region
characterized by high kainate receptor density. We further observed similarities 
in receptor binding densities between subdivisions of the avian and mammalian HF.
Despite the similarities, we propose that 300 hundred million years of
independent evolution has led to a mosaic of similarities and differences in the 
organization of the avian HF and mammalian hippocampus and that thinking about
the avian HF in terms of the strict organization of the mammalian hippocampus is 
likely insufficient to understand the HF of birds.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23549 
PMID: 24477871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

