

1455. J Comp Neurol. 2014 Aug 1;522(11):2553-75. doi: 10.1002/cne.23549.

Distribution of neurotransmitter receptors and zinc in the pigeon (Columba livia)
hippocampal formation: A basis for further comparison with the mammalian
hippocampus.

Herold C(1), Bingman VP, Ströckens F, Letzner S, Sauvage M, Palomero-Gallagher N,
Zilles K, Güntürkün O.

Author information: 
(1)C. & O. Vogt Institute of Brain Research, University of Düsseldorf, 40225,
Düsseldorf, Germany.

The avian hippocampal formation (HF) and mammalian hippocampus share a similar
functional role in spatial cognition, but the underlying neuronal mechanisms
allowing the functional similarity are incompletely understood. To understand
better the organization of the avian HF and its transmitter receptors, we
analyzed binding site densities for glutamatergic AMPA, NMDA, and kainate
receptors; GABAA receptors; muscarinic M1 , M2 and nicotinic (nACh) acetylcholine
receptors; noradrenergic α1 and α2 receptors; serotonergic 5-HT1A receptors;
dopaminergic D1/5 receptors by using quantitative in vitro receptor
autoradiography. Additionally, we performed a modified Timm staining procedure to
label zinc. The regionally different receptor densities mapped well onto seven HF
subdivisions previously described. Several differences in receptor expression
highlighted distinct HF subdivisions. Notable examples include 1) high GABAA and 
α1 receptor expression, which rendered distinctive ventral subdivisions; 2) high 
α2 receptor expression, which rendered distinctive a dorsomedial subdivision; 3) 
distinct kainate, α2 , and muscarinic receptor densities that rendered
distinctive the two dorsolateral subdivisions; and 4) a dorsomedial region
characterized by high kainate receptor density. We further observed similarities 
in receptor binding densities between subdivisions of the avian and mammalian HF.
Despite the similarities, we propose that 300 hundred million years of
independent evolution has led to a mosaic of similarities and differences in the 
organization of the avian HF and mammalian hippocampus and that thinking about
the avian HF in terms of the strict organization of the mammalian hippocampus is 
likely insufficient to understand the HF of birds.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23549 
PMID: 24477871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1456. J Neurosci. 2014 Jan 22;34(4):1183-94. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3899-13.2014.

Active vision in marmosets: a model system for visual neuroscience.

Mitchell JF(1), Reynolds JH, Miller CT.

Author information: 
(1)Systems Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037-1099 and Department of Psychology and Neurosciences
Graduate Program, The University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093-0109.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small-bodied New World primate,
offers several advantages to complement vision research in larger primates.
Studies in the anesthetized marmoset have detailed the anatomy and physiology of 
their visual system (Rosa et al., 2009) while studies of auditory and vocal
processing have established their utility for awake and behaving
neurophysiological investigations (Lu et al., 2001a,b; Eliades and Wang, 2008a,b;
Osmanski and Wang, 2011; Remington et al., 2012). However, a critical unknown is 
whether marmosets can perform visual tasks under head restraint. This has been
essential for studies in macaques, enabling both accurate eye tracking and head
stabilization for neurophysiology. In one set of experiments we compared the free
viewing behavior of head-fixed marmosets to that of macaques, and found that
their saccadic behavior is comparable across a number of saccade metrics and that
saccades target similar regions of interest including faces. In a second set of
experiments we applied behavioral conditioning techniques to determine whether
the marmoset could control fixation for liquid reward. Two marmosets could fixate
a central point and ignore peripheral flashing stimuli, as needed for receptive
field mapping. Both marmosets also performed an orientation discrimination task, 
exhibiting a saturating psychometric function with reliable performance and
shorter reaction times for easier discriminations. These data suggest that the
marmoset is a viable model for studies of active vision and its underlying neural
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3899-13.2014 
PMCID: PMC3898283
PMID: 24453311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

