

1458. Neuropharmacology. 2014 Jul;82:76-87. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2014.01.012. Epub
2014 Jan 18.

UWA-121, a mixed dopamine and serotonin re-uptake inhibitor, enhances L-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian action without worsening dyskinesia or psychosis-like
behaviours in the MPTP-lesioned common marmoset.

Huot P(1), Johnston TH(2), Lewis KD(3), Koprich JB(2), Reyes MG(2), Fox SH(4),
Piggott MJ(5), Brotchie JM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Krembil Discovery Tower, 8KD-402, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada; Division of Neurology, Movement
Disorder Clinic, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health Network, 399
Bathurst Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada. Electronic address:
p.huot@umontreal.ca.
(2)Toronto Western Research Institute, Krembil Discovery Tower, 8KD-402, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada.
(3)School of Biomedical, Biomolecular and Chemical Sciences, The University of
Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Perth 6009, Australia.
(4)Toronto Western Research Institute, Krembil Discovery Tower, 8KD-402, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada; Division of Neurology, Movement
Disorder Clinic, Toronto Western Hospital, University Health Network, 399
Bathurst Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada.
(5)School of Biomedical, Biomolecular and Chemical Sciences, The University of
Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Perth 6009, Australia. Electronic
address: matthew.piggott@uwa.edu.au.
(6)Toronto Western Research Institute, Krembil Discovery Tower, 8KD-402, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada. Electronic address:
brotchie@uhnres.utoronto.ca.

L-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is the most effective treatment for
Parkinson's disease (PD), but its long-term administration is complicated by
wearing-off and dyskinesia. UWA-101, a dual, equipotent inhibitor of dopamine
(DAT) and serotonin (SERT) transporters, has previously been shown to
successfully extend duration of anti-parkinsonian benefit of L-DOPA (ON-time),
without exacerbating dyskinesia, in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset. However,
UWA-101 is racemic and it is unclear whether one or both enantiomers contribute
to its actions, and whether a better therapeutic effect might be attained by
using a single antipode. In the current study, we synthesised the two enantiomers
of UWA-101, R-101 (UWA-121) and S-101 (UWA-122), characterised their
pharmacological profiles and administered them to MPTP-lesioned marmosets.
Parkinsonism, dyskinesia, psychosis-like behaviours and duration of ON-time were 
evaluated. UWA-121 is a dual DAT > SERT inhibitor, with an approximate 10:1
DAT:SERT affinity ratio (inhibitory constants (Ki) of 307 and 3830 nM,
respectively). In combination with L-DOPA, UWA-121 extended duration of ON-time
when compared to L-DOPA/vehicle treatment (by 40%, P < 0.01). UWA-121 also
extended duration of ON-time without dyskinesia (by 215%, P < 0.05) and ON-time
without psychosis-like behaviours when compared to L-DOPA/vehicle treatment (by
345%, P < 0.01). UWA-121 did not worsen the severity of dyskinesia or
psychosis-like behaviours (P > 0.05). UWA-122 is a selective SERT inhibitor (Ki
120 nM, Ki at DAT > 50 μM) and, in combination with L-DOPA, had no effect on
ON-time, dyskinesia or psychosis-like behaviours (P > 0.05). These data indicate 
that dual DAT and SERT inhibitors effectively enhance L-DOPA anti-parkinsonian
action without worsening dyskinesia and that compounds with such a
pharmacological profile represent promising agents against wearing-off in PD.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2014.01.012 
PMID: 24447715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1459. Brain Res. 2014 Mar 6;1550:27-35. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2014.01.009. Epub 2014 
Jan 17.

Cannabinoid type-1 receptor ligands, alone or in combination with cocaine, affect
vigilance-related behaviors of marmoset monkeys.

Cagni P(1), Melo GC(1), de Jesus AG(1), Barros M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil. Electronic address:
mbarros@unb.br.

Endocannabinoids (eCB) have been functionally linked to cocaine׳s rewarding
effects. However, results differ at the behavioral level, with few reports in
nonhuman primates (NHPs). Here we analyzed whether repeatedly administered
cannabinoid type-1 receptor (CB1r) agonist WIN 55-212,2 (WIN) or antagonist AM
251 (AM) induce effects per se and if concurrent pre-treatments affect
cocaine-induced changes in marmoset behavior. Six groups were tested: WIN-saline;
WIN-cocaine; AM-saline; AM-cocaine; vehicle-cocaine; and vehicle-saline. Subjects
were pre-treated with either WIN (1mg/kg), AM (2mg/kg) or vehicle and then
injected with cocaine (5mg/kg) or saline. Six exposures were held at 48 h
intervals. Behaviors were scored during 15-min in an open-field on days 1 and 6, 
as well as a withdrawal (WD) trial. Marmosets became hypervigilant during cocaine
exposures, which did not condition to the injection context. CB1r activation
induced an equivalent response, whereas AM had no effect on its own. However,
when given as a pre-treatment to cocaine, CB1r blockade enhanced the former׳s
hypervigilance effect and potentially conditioned this response to the exposure
context. Enhancement may have resulted from AM׳s inhibition of eCB-potentiated
cocaine-induced anxiogenesis and/or its action independent of the eCB system, or 
even CB1r-mediated changes in synaptic plasticity involved in cocaine
reward-learning. All effects were independent of motor function. Thus, changes in
CB1r function - alone and in combination with cocaine - affected stereotyped
vigilance-related behaviors in this NHP, further implicating the eCB system in
the neurobiological mechanisms of cocaine addiction.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2014.01.009 
PMID: 24445195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

