

1461. Mater Sci Eng C Mater Biol Appl. 2014 Mar 1;36:77-83. doi:
10.1016/j.msec.2013.11.048. Epub 2013 Dec 7.

Process engineering of high voltage alginate encapsulation of mesenchymal stem
cells.

Gryshkov O(1), Pogozhykh D(2), Zernetsch H(3), Hofmann N(4), Mueller T(5),
Glasmacher B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz University Hannover, D-30167
Hannover, Germany. Electronic address: gryshkov@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz University Hannover, D-30167
Hannover, Germany. Electronic address: pogozhykh@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(3)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz University Hannover, D-30167
Hannover, Germany. Electronic address: zernetsch@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(4)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz University Hannover, D-30167
Hannover, Germany. Electronic address: hofmann@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(5)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Medical School Hannover, D-30625 Hannover,
Germany. Electronic address: mueller.thomas@mh-hannover.de.
(6)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz University Hannover, D-30167
Hannover, Germany. Electronic address: glasmacher@imp.uni-hannover.de.

Encapsulation of stem cells in alginate beads is promising as a sophisticated
drug delivery system in treatment of a wide range of acute and chronic diseases. 
However, common use of air flow encapsulation of cells in alginate beads fails to
produce beads with narrow size distribution, intact spherical structure and
controllable sizes that can be scaled up. Here we show that high voltage
encapsulation (≥ 15 kV) can be used to reproducibly generate spherical alginate
beads (200-400 μm) with narrow size distribution (± 5-7%) in a controlled manner 
under optimized process parameters. Flow rate of alginate solution ranged from
0.5 to 10 ml/h allowed producing alginate beads with a size of 320 and 350 μm
respectively, suggesting that this approach can be scaled up. Moreover, we found 
that applied voltages (15-25 kV) did not alter the viability and proliferation of
encapsulated mesenchymal stem cells post-encapsulation and cryopreservation as
compared to air flow. We are the first who employed a comparative analysis of
electro-spraying and air flow encapsulation to study the effect of high voltage
on alginate encapsulated cells. This report provides background in application of
high voltage to encapsulate living cells for further medical purposes. Long-term 
comparison and work on alginate-cell interaction within these structures will be 
forthcoming.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msec.2013.11.048 
PMID: 24433889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1462. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2014 Jan;53(1):7-11.

Twinning and survivorship of captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and
cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus).

Ward JM(1), Buslov AM(1), Vallender EJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, Massachusetts, USA. eric_vallender@hms.harvard.edu.

Here we present the results of a demographic analysis of 25 y (1985 to 2010) of
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus)
records from the New England Primate Research Center. Summaries of longevity and 
survivorship are analyzed by birth-type category (including singletons, twins,
triplets, and quadruplets) and sex. In addition, a brief evolutionary review is
presented. Surrogates of hematopoietic chimerism, twinning, and reproductive
output are explored in a large number of animals to help decipher the potential
effects of chimerism on life history in marmosets and tamarins. In addition to
exploring chimerism through demographic data, multiple-birth frequency and
survivorship are compared between species. New World primates can make ideal
translational models for disease and behavioral research across multiple
disciplines. A better understanding of their reproductive success and
survivorship in captivity helps develop these nonhuman primate models, their role
in aging research, and understanding of their behavioral ecology. This mission is
likely to only increase in its importance to biomedical research due to both the 
sequencing of the marmoset genome and the growing demand for alternatives to Old 
World primate models.


PMCID: PMC3894641
PMID: 24411773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

