

1463. J Biol Chem. 2014 Feb 14;289(7):3991-4000. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.514075. Epub
2014 Jan 8.

Evolution of mammalian Opn5 as a specialized UV-absorbing pigment by a single
amino acid mutation.

Yamashita T(1), Ono K, Ohuchi H, Yumoto A, Gotoh H, Tomonari S, Sakai K, Fujita
H, Imamoto Y, Noji S, Nakamura K, Shichida Y.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Biophysics, Graduate School of Science, Kyoto
University, Kyoto 606-8502, Japan.

Opn5 is one of the recently identified opsin groups that is responsible for
nonvisual photoreception in animals. We previously showed that a chicken homolog 
of mammalian Opn5 (Opn5m) is a Gi-coupled UV sensor having molecular properties
typical of bistable pigments. Here we demonstrated that mammalian Opn5m evolved
to be a more specialized photosensor by losing one of the characteristics of
bistable pigments, direct binding of all-trans-retinal. We first confirmed that
Opn5m proteins in zebrafish, Xenopus tropicalis, mouse, and human are also
UV-sensitive pigments. Then we found that only mammalian Opn5m proteins lack the 
ability to directly bind all-trans-retinal. Mutational analysis showed that these
characteristics were acquired by a single amino acid replacement at position 168.
By comparing the expression patterns of Opn5m between mammals and chicken, we
found that, like chicken Opn5m, mammalian Opn5m was localized in the ganglion
cell layer and inner nuclear layer of the retina. However, the mouse and primate 
(common marmoset) opsins were distributed not in the posterior hypothalamus
(including the region along the third ventricle) where chicken Opn5m is
localized, but in the preoptic hypothalamus. Interestingly, RPE65, an essential
enzyme for forming 11-cis-retinal in the visual cycle is expressed near the
preoptic hypothalamus of the mouse and common marmoset brain but not near the
region of the chicken brain where chicken Opn5m is expressed. Therefore,
mammalian Opn5m may work exclusively as a short wavelength sensor in the brain as
well as in the retina with the assistance of an 11-cis-retinal-supplying system.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.514075 
PMCID: PMC3924266
PMID: 24403072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1464. Neurosci Bull. 2014 Jun;30(3):387-93. doi: 10.1007/s12264-013-1395-y. Epub 2014
Jan 6.

Motor assessment of developing common marmosets.

Wang Y(1), Fang Q, Gong N.

Author information: 
(1)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
200240, China.

Motor development has been extensively studied in human infants and children,
with several established scales for the evaluation of motor functions. However,
the study of the neuronal mechanisms underlying human motor development is
hampered by the lack of good animal models. The common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a small New World monkey, has recently attracted much attention as a
potential nonhuman primate model for understanding human physiology and diseases.
However, little is known about its gross motor development. In the present study,
we found that marmosets have a critical period for motor development in postnatal
weeks 2 to 5, and acquire most of their motor skills by 8 weeks of age. We also
developed methods to assess their motor functions, which will be useful for the
evaluation of motor performance in marmoset models of human diseases. In
addition, we found that marmosets exhibit a "head-to-tail" sequence of motor
development similar to that found in humans, further supporting the notion that
they provide a good animal model for studying the neuronal mechanisms underlying 
human motor development.

DOI: 10.1007/s12264-013-1395-y 
PMCID: PMC5562599
PMID: 24395453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

