

1464. Neurosci Bull. 2014 Jun;30(3):387-93. doi: 10.1007/s12264-013-1395-y. Epub 2014
Jan 6.

Motor assessment of developing common marmosets.

Wang Y(1), Fang Q, Gong N.

Author information: 
(1)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
200240, China.

Motor development has been extensively studied in human infants and children,
with several established scales for the evaluation of motor functions. However,
the study of the neuronal mechanisms underlying human motor development is
hampered by the lack of good animal models. The common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a small New World monkey, has recently attracted much attention as a
potential nonhuman primate model for understanding human physiology and diseases.
However, little is known about its gross motor development. In the present study,
we found that marmosets have a critical period for motor development in postnatal
weeks 2 to 5, and acquire most of their motor skills by 8 weeks of age. We also
developed methods to assess their motor functions, which will be useful for the
evaluation of motor performance in marmoset models of human diseases. In
addition, we found that marmosets exhibit a "head-to-tail" sequence of motor
development similar to that found in humans, further supporting the notion that
they provide a good animal model for studying the neuronal mechanisms underlying 
human motor development.

DOI: 10.1007/s12264-013-1395-y 
PMCID: PMC5562599
PMID: 24395453  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1465. Primates. 2014 Apr;55(2):293-302. doi: 10.1007/s10329-013-0404-0. Epub 2014 Jan
7.

Do newborn vocalizations affect the behavioral and hormonal responses of
nonreproductive male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)?

Barbosa MN(1), Mota MT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande do Norte, Campus Universitário, Caixa Postal 1511, Natal, RN, 59078-970,
Brazil. maricelebarbosa@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande do Norte, Campus Universitário, Caixa Postal 1511, Natal, RN, 59078-970,
Brazil.

Parental care in mammals is influenced by sensory stimuli from infants, such as
sight and sound, and by changes in the hormone levels of caretakers. To determine
the responsiveness of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) adult males with and
without previous experience in caretaking to newborn sensory cues, we exposed
twelve males to infant vocalization recordings and assessed their hormonal and
behavioral responses. Males were placed in the testing cage for 10 min under two 
conditions: (a) control condition (exposure to adult conspecific vocalization
recordings), and (b) experimental condition (exposure to infant vocalization
recordings). We recorded the frequency of approach towards the sound source, the 
time spent near it and locomotion frequency of males in the cage under both
conditions. Blood samples were collected after each test for cortisol, measured
by the enzyme immunoassay method. Infant vocalization affects the behavioral and 
hormonal responses of non-reproductive male common marmosets. All males
approached and spent more time near the sound source and showed an increase in
locomotion during infant vocalization exposure compared to the control condition.
Successive exposure to infant vocalization increased the responsiveness in
inexperienced males. Cortisol levels were significantly higher following infant
vocalization exposure compared to the control condition. These findings support
the assumption that sound stimuli from the newborn are critical in initiating and
maintaining caretaker responsiveness and that cortisol seems to be important for 
alertness to sensory stimuli, modulating their motivation to interact with
infants.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-013-0404-0 
PMID: 24394953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

