

1467. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 28;111(4):1467-72. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1316037111. Epub 2013 Dec 30.

Evolutionary genetics and implications of small size and twinning in
callitrichine primates.

Harris RA(1), Tardif SD, Vinar T, Wildman DE, Rutherford JN, Rogers J, Worley KC,
Aagaard KM.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine 
and Molecular and Human Genetics, Human Genome Sequencing Center, and Department 
of Molecular and Cell Biology and the Reproductive Medicine Center, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030.

New World monkeys (NWMs) are characterized by an extensive size range, with
clawed NWMs (subfamily Callitrichinae, or callitrichines) such as the common
marmoset manifesting diminutive size and unique reproductive adaptations. Perhaps
the most notable of these adaptations is their propensity toward multiple
gestations (i.e., dichorionic twins and trichorionic triplets). Indeed, with the 
exception of Goeldi's monkey (Callimico), callitrichine singleton pregnancies
rarely occur. Multiple gestations seem to have coevolved with a suite of
reproductive adaptations, including hematopoetic chimerism of siblings,
suppression of reproduction in nondominant females, and cooperative
alloparenting. The sequencing of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) genome 
offers the opportunity to explore the genetic basis of these unusual traits
within this primate lineage. In this study, we hypothesized that genetic changes 
arising during callitrichine evolution resulted in multiple ovulated ova with
each cycle, and that these changes triggered adaptations that minimized
complications common to multiple gestations in other primates, including humans. 
Callitrichine-specific nonsynonymous substitutions were identified in GDF9,
BMP15, BMP4, and WFIKKN1. WFIKKN1, a multidomain protease inhibitor that binds
growth factors and bone morphogenetic proteins, has nonsynonymous changes found
exclusively in common marmosets and other tested callitrichine species that twin.
In the one callitrichine species that does not produce twins (Callimico), this
change has reverted back to the ancestral (nontwinning) primate sequence.
Polymorphisms in GDF9 occur among human cohorts with a propensity for dizygotic
twins, and polymorphisms in GDF9 and BMP15 are associated with twinning in sheep.
We postulate that positive selection affected NWM growth patterns, with
callitrichine miniaturization coevolving with a series of reproductive
adaptations.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1316037111 
PMCID: PMC3910650
PMID: 24379383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1468. Biomaterials. 2014 Mar;35(8):2462-70. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.12.004.
Epub 2013 Dec 24.

A hematoporphyrin-based delivery system for drug resistance reversal and tumor
ablation.

Ren Y(1), Wang R(1), Liu Y(1), Guo H(1), Zhou X(2), Yuan X(3), Liu C(3), Tian
J(4), Yin H(1), Wang Y(5), Zhang N(6).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center of Basic Medical Sciences & Cancer Institute and Hospital,
National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 
300070, PR China.
(2)Department of Head & Neck, Tianjin Cancer Institute and Hospital, Tianjin
300060, PR China.
(3)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin
300072, PR China.
(4)School of Physics, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, PR China.
(5)Research Center of Basic Medical Sciences & Cancer Institute and Hospital,
National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 
300070, PR China; School of Pharmacy, Tianjin Key Laboratory on Technologies
Enabling Development of Clinical Therapeutics and Diagnostics (Theranostics),
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, PR China. Electronic address:
wangyinsong@tijmu.edu.cn.
(6)Research Center of Basic Medical Sciences & Cancer Institute and Hospital,
National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 
300070, PR China. Electronic address: zhangning@tijmu.edu.cn.

Nanotechnology-based drug delivery systems have been intensively investigated,
while only a few of them can be used for clinic application. Hematoporphyrin
(HP), a major molecule in erythrocyte, has been widely used in photodynamic
therapy (PDT). In the present study, polyethylene glycol (PEG) modified
hematoporphyrin (HPP)-based nanoparticle system was designed to load doxorubicin 
(HPPD), in achieving a synergistic effect of chemotherapy and PDT. Herein we
presented that HPPD formed narrowly dispersed nanoparticles at 35 ± 2 nm,
yielding an enhanced drug release at pH5.8 along with laser radiation. This
combined treatment with HPPD and radiation facilitated drug penetration to the
nucleus thereby reducing 12-fold decrease in IC50 value and promoting apoptosis
in drug-resistant breast cancer cells. Notably, little toxicity was detected with
HPP at the cellular level and in animal models. Live animal imaging revealed that
HPPD performed ultra high tumor uptake in both mice and marmoset models.
Strikingly, intravenous administration of HPPD and radiation on the tumor
achieved efficient tumor ablation, without inducing myocardial injury. We report 
here the development of a biomolecule, HP-based nanoparticle system, which can
synergistically yield chemotherapy and PDT.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.12.004 
PMID: 24373420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

