

1468. Biomaterials. 2014 Mar;35(8):2462-70. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.12.004.
Epub 2013 Dec 24.

A hematoporphyrin-based delivery system for drug resistance reversal and tumor
ablation.

Ren Y(1), Wang R(1), Liu Y(1), Guo H(1), Zhou X(2), Yuan X(3), Liu C(3), Tian
J(4), Yin H(1), Wang Y(5), Zhang N(6).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center of Basic Medical Sciences & Cancer Institute and Hospital,
National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 
300070, PR China.
(2)Department of Head & Neck, Tianjin Cancer Institute and Hospital, Tianjin
300060, PR China.
(3)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Tianjin University, Tianjin
300072, PR China.
(4)School of Physics, Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, PR China.
(5)Research Center of Basic Medical Sciences & Cancer Institute and Hospital,
National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 
300070, PR China; School of Pharmacy, Tianjin Key Laboratory on Technologies
Enabling Development of Clinical Therapeutics and Diagnostics (Theranostics),
Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, PR China. Electronic address:
wangyinsong@tijmu.edu.cn.
(6)Research Center of Basic Medical Sciences & Cancer Institute and Hospital,
National Clinical Research Center of Cancer, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 
300070, PR China. Electronic address: zhangning@tijmu.edu.cn.

Nanotechnology-based drug delivery systems have been intensively investigated,
while only a few of them can be used for clinic application. Hematoporphyrin
(HP), a major molecule in erythrocyte, has been widely used in photodynamic
therapy (PDT). In the present study, polyethylene glycol (PEG) modified
hematoporphyrin (HPP)-based nanoparticle system was designed to load doxorubicin 
(HPPD), in achieving a synergistic effect of chemotherapy and PDT. Herein we
presented that HPPD formed narrowly dispersed nanoparticles at 35 ± 2 nm,
yielding an enhanced drug release at pH5.8 along with laser radiation. This
combined treatment with HPPD and radiation facilitated drug penetration to the
nucleus thereby reducing 12-fold decrease in IC50 value and promoting apoptosis
in drug-resistant breast cancer cells. Notably, little toxicity was detected with
HPP at the cellular level and in animal models. Live animal imaging revealed that
HPPD performed ultra high tumor uptake in both mice and marmoset models.
Strikingly, intravenous administration of HPPD and radiation on the tumor
achieved efficient tumor ablation, without inducing myocardial injury. We report 
here the development of a biomolecule, HP-based nanoparticle system, which can
synergistically yield chemotherapy and PDT.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.12.004 
PMID: 24373420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1469. Eur J Neurosci. 2014 Mar;39(6):919-933. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12460. Epub 2013 Dec 26.

Spatially extended forward suppression in primate auditory cortex.

Zhou Y(1), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.

When auditory neurons are stimulated with a pair of sounds, the preceding sound
can inhibit the neural responses to the succeeding sound. This phenomenon,
referred to as 'forward suppression', has been linked to perceptual forward
masking. Previous studies investigating forward suppression typically measured
the interaction between masker and probe sounds using a fixed sound location.
However, in natural environments, interacting sounds often come from different
spatial locations. The present study investigated two questions regarding forward
suppression in the primary auditory cortex and adjacent caudal field of awake
marmoset monkeys. First, what is the relationship between the location of a
masker and its effectiveness in inhibiting neural response to a probe? Second,
does varying the location of a masker change the spectral profile of forward
suppression? We found that a masker can inhibit a neuron's response to a probe
located at a preferred location even when the masker is located at a
non-preferred location of a neuron. This is especially so for neurons in the
caudal field. Furthermore, we found that the strongest forward suppression is
observed when a masker's frequency is close to the best frequency of a neuron,
regardless of the location of the masker. These results reveal, for the first
time, the stability of forward masking in cortical processing of multiple sounds 
presented from different locations. They suggest that forward suppression in the 
auditory cortex is spectrally specific and spatially broad with respect to the
frequency and location of the masker, respectively.

© 2013 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12460 
PMID: 24372934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

