

1473. J Virol. 2014 Mar;88(6):3058-66. doi: 10.1128/JVI.03035-13. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Genetic variation in vitro and in vivo of an attenuated Lassa vaccine candidate.

Zapata JC(1), Goicochea M, Nadai Y, Eyzaguirre LM, Carr JK, Tallon LJ, Sadzewicz 
L, Myers G, Fraser CM, Su Q, Djavani M, Lukashevich IS, Salvato MS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Virology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

The attenuated Lassa vaccine candidate ML29 is a laboratory-produced reassortant 
between Lassa and Mopeia viruses, two Old World arenaviruses that differ by 40%
in nucleic acid sequence. In our previous studies, ML29 elicited sterilizing
immunity against Lassa virus challenge in guinea pigs and marmosets and
virus-specific cell-mediated immunity in both simian immunodeficiency virus
(SIV)-infected and uninfected rhesus macaques. Here, we show that ML29 is stable 
after 12 passages in vitro without losing its plaque morphology or its attenuated
phenotype in suckling mice. Additionally, we used deep sequencing to characterize
the viral population comprising the original stock of ML29, the stock of ML29
after 12 passages in Vero cells, and the ML29 isolates obtained from vaccinated
animals. Twenty-seven isolates bore approximately 77 mutations that exceeded 20% 
of the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) changes at any single locus. Of these
77 mutations, 5 appeared to be host specific, for example, appearing in mice but 
not in primates. None of these mutations were reversions of ML29 to the sequences
of the parental Lassa and Mopeia viruses. The host-specific mutations indicate
viral adaptations to virus-host interactions, and such interactions make
reasonable targets for antiviral approaches. Variants capable of chronic
infection did not emerge from any of the primate infections, even in
immune-deficient animals, indicating that the ML29 reassortant is reasonably
stable in vivo. In conclusion, the preclinical studies of ML29 as a Lassa virus
vaccine candidate have been advanced, showing high levels of protection in
nonhuman primates and acceptable stability both in vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.03035-13 
PMCID: PMC3957910
PMID: 24335292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1474. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 6;8(12):e82747. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082747. eCollection
2013.

Serum albumin and body weight as biomarkers for the antemortem identification of 
bone and gastrointestinal disease in the common marmoset.

Baxter VK(1), Shaw GC, Sotuyo NP, Carlson CS, Olson EJ, Zink MC, Mankowski JL,
Adams RJ, Hutchinson EK, Metcalf Pate KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, The Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America.

The increasing use of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in research makes 
it important to diagnose spontaneous disease that may confound experimental
studies. Bone disease and gastrointestinal disease are two major causes of
morbidity and mortality in captive marmosets, but currently no effective
antemortem tests are available to identify affected animals prior to the terminal
stage of disease. In this study we propose that bone disease and gastrointestinal
disease are associated disease entities in marmosets and aim to establish the
efficacy of several economical antemortem tests in identifying and predicting
disease. Tissues from marmosets were examined to define affected animals and
unaffected controls. Complete blood count, serum chemistry values, body weight,
quantitative radiographs, and tissue-specific biochemical markers were evaluated 
as candidate biomarkers for disease. Bone and gastrointestinal disease were
associated, with marmosets being over seven times more likely to have either
concurrent bone and gastrointestinal disease or neither disease as opposed to
lesions in only one organ system. When used in tandem, serum albumin <3.5 g/dL
and body weight <325 g identified 100% of the marmosets affected with concurrent 
bone and gastrointestinal disease. Progressive body weight loss of 0.05% of peak 
body weight per day predicted which marmosets would develop disease prior to the 
terminal stage. Bone tissue-specific tests, such as quantitative analysis of
radiographs and serum parathyroid hormone levels, were effective for
distinguishing between marmosets with bone disease and those without. These
results provide an avenue for making informed decisions regarding the removal of 
affected marmosets from studies in a timely manner, preserving the integrity of
research results.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082747 
PMCID: PMC3855796
PMID: 24324827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

