

1474. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 6;8(12):e82747. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082747. eCollection
2013.

Serum albumin and body weight as biomarkers for the antemortem identification of 
bone and gastrointestinal disease in the common marmoset.

Baxter VK(1), Shaw GC, Sotuyo NP, Carlson CS, Olson EJ, Zink MC, Mankowski JL,
Adams RJ, Hutchinson EK, Metcalf Pate KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, The Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America.

The increasing use of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in research makes 
it important to diagnose spontaneous disease that may confound experimental
studies. Bone disease and gastrointestinal disease are two major causes of
morbidity and mortality in captive marmosets, but currently no effective
antemortem tests are available to identify affected animals prior to the terminal
stage of disease. In this study we propose that bone disease and gastrointestinal
disease are associated disease entities in marmosets and aim to establish the
efficacy of several economical antemortem tests in identifying and predicting
disease. Tissues from marmosets were examined to define affected animals and
unaffected controls. Complete blood count, serum chemistry values, body weight,
quantitative radiographs, and tissue-specific biochemical markers were evaluated 
as candidate biomarkers for disease. Bone and gastrointestinal disease were
associated, with marmosets being over seven times more likely to have either
concurrent bone and gastrointestinal disease or neither disease as opposed to
lesions in only one organ system. When used in tandem, serum albumin <3.5 g/dL
and body weight <325 g identified 100% of the marmosets affected with concurrent 
bone and gastrointestinal disease. Progressive body weight loss of 0.05% of peak 
body weight per day predicted which marmosets would develop disease prior to the 
terminal stage. Bone tissue-specific tests, such as quantitative analysis of
radiographs and serum parathyroid hormone levels, were effective for
distinguishing between marmosets with bone disease and those without. These
results provide an avenue for making informed decisions regarding the removal of 
affected marmosets from studies in a timely manner, preserving the integrity of
research results.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082747 
PMCID: PMC3855796
PMID: 24324827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1475. J Gen Virol. 2014 Mar;95(Pt 3):591-600. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.060384-0. Epub 2013
Dec 9.

Demonstration of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a non-human primate model for 
secondary dengue virus infection: high levels of viraemia and serotype
cross-reactive antibody responses consistent with secondary infection of humans.

Moi ML(1), Takasaki T(1), Omatsu T(2), Nakamura S(3), Katakai Y(4), Ami Y(5),
Suzaki Y(5), Saijo M(1), Akari H(6), Kurane I(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology I, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)Research and Education Center for Prevention of Global Infectious Diseases of 
Animals, Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Fuchu, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Research Center for Animal Life Science, Shiga University of Medical Science, 
Otsu, Shiga, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Disease Control, Tsukuba Primate Research Center, National
Institute of Biomedical Innovation, Ibaraki, Japan.
(5)Division of Experimental Animal Research, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Section of Comparative Immunology and Microbiology, Center for Human Evolution
Modeling Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi, Japan.
(7)National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo, Japan.

There are four dengue virus (DENV) serotypes. Primary infection with one does not
confer protective immunity against the others. We have reported previously that
the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a useful primary DENV infection model. It
has been reported that secondary DENV infection with a heterotypic serotype
induces viraemia kinetics and antibody responses that differ from those in
primary infection. Thus, it is important to determine the utility of the marmoset
as a model for secondary DENV infection. Marmosets were infected with
heterologous DENV by secondary inoculation, and viraemia kinetics and antibody
responses were analysed. The marmosets consistently developed high levels of
viraemia after the secondary inoculation with heterologous DENV serotypes. IgM
responses were lower compared with primary inoculation responses, whilst IgG
responses were rapid and high. Neutralizing activities, which possessed serotype 
cross-reactive activities, were detected as early as 4 days after inoculation. In
addition, infectious viraemia titres were higher when assayed with FcÎ³
receptor-expressing baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells than when assayed with
conventional BHK cells, suggesting the presence of infectious virus-antibody
immune complexes. After secondary infection with heterotypic DENV, the marmosets 
demonstrated viraemia kinetics, IgM and IgG responses, and high levels of
serotype cross-reactive neutralizing antibody responses, all of which were
consistent with secondary DENV infection in humans. The results indicate the
marmoset as a useful animal for studying secondary, as well as primary, DENV
infection.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.060384-0 
PMID: 24323638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

