

1476. Am J Primatol. 2014 Apr;76(4):385-92. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22242. Epub 2013 Dec 3.

Seasonal variation in the length of the daily activity period in buffy-headed
marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps): an important consideration for the analysis of 
foraging strategies in observational field studies of primates.

Ferrari SF(1), Hilário RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ecology, Federal University of Sergipe, São Cristóvão, Brazil;
Graduate Program in Zoology, Federal University of Paraíba, João Pessoa, Brazil.

Activity budgets are widely used in primate behavioral studies for the analysis
of ecological strategies. In some cases, there is considerable seasonal variation
in the length of the daily activity period. Here, activity budgets from two field
studies of Callithrix flaviceps were compiled first by the traditional approach
(proportion of scan sample records) and then by considering the proportion of
time dedicated to each activity over the 24-hr cycle (adjusted budget). Both
groups were almost invariably active for at least 1-2 hr less than the daylight
period, with significantly shorter activity periods during the austral winter,
when the daylight period was up to 2:35 hr shorter than in the summer. The
adjustment of activity budgets provided a completely different perspective on
foraging strategies. Whereas the basic budgets indicated a significant increase
in foraging and moving during the resource-poor dry season (winter) months, the
time-adjusted data revealed that the primary strategy was a time-minimizing one, 
with the animals simply spending more time at rest during the longer activity
periods of summer days. While both groups followed the same pattern of relatively
short activity periods, there were considerable differences between sites in the 
mean duration of the period in a given month, and in behavior patterns, although 
the analysis of the determining factors was beyond the scope of the present
study. Overall, the results of the study indicate that the manipulation of the
duration of the daily activity period may be an integral component of primate
behavioral strategies, and that this parameter should be taken into account
systematically when evaluating activity patterns, especially at sites at
relatively high latitudes where day length may vary considerably over the course 
of the year.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22242 
PMID: 24323495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1477. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Mar 15;261:26-30. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.11.036. Epub 2013
Dec 1.

Lack of dopamine D4 receptor affinity contributes to the procognitive effect of
lurasidone.

Murai T(1), Nakako T(1), Ikeda K(2), Ikejiri M(1), Ishiyama T(3), Taiji M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma,
Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
(2)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma,
Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan. Electronic address: kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(3)Innovative Drug Discovery Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, Co., Ltd., 
Osaka, Japan.
(4)Drug Research Division, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

We previously demonstrated among several antipsychotics exhibiting potent
dopamine D2 receptor antagonism that only lurasidone,
(1R,2S,3R,4S)-N-[(1R,2R)-2-[4-(1,2-benzisothiazol-3-yl)-1-piperazinylmethyl]-1-cy
clohexylmethyl]-2,3-bicyclo[2.2.1] heptanedicarboximide hydrochloride, improved
performance in the object retrieval detour (ORD) task by marmosets. The
mechanisms by which only lurasidone causes enhancements in cognitive function
have not yet been established; however, most antipsychotics, except for
lurasidone, have been shown to exhibit potent antagonistic activity against the
dopamine D4 receptor. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the role of
the dopamine D4 receptor on executive function with the selective agonist,
Ro10-5824 and antagonist, L-745,870, and elucidate a possible mechanism for the
procognitive effect of lurasidone. The effects of these drugs were evaluated in
naïve marmosets using the ORD task. Changes in the success rate during the
difficult trial in the task were used to assess the cognitive effect of the
drugs. Ro10-5824 (0.3-3 mg/kg) increased the success rate in the difficult trial,
potentiated the effect of lurasidone, and reversed the cognitive impairment
induced by clozapine. Interestingly, the co-administration of L-745,870 with
lurasidone decreased the success rate in the difficult trial, whereas the single 
administration of L-745,870 had no effect. These results suggest that activation 
of the dopamine D4 receptor may improve executive function, whereas concomitant
blockade of dopamine D4 and D2 receptors may have the opposite effect. In
addition to the other unique binding profiles of other monoamine receptors, the
lack of affinity for the dopamine D4 receptor by lurasidone could also
contribute, at least partly, to its cognitive-enhancing effect.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.11.036 
PMID: 24304719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

