

1478. J Neurosci. 2013 Nov 27;33(48):18825-35. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2414-13.2013.

Auditory artificial grammar learning in macaque and marmoset monkeys.

Wilson B(1), Slater H, Kikuchi Y, Milne AE, Marslen-Wilson WD, Smith K, Petkov
CI.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, and Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle
University, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 4HH, United Kingdom, Department of
Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 3EB, United Kingdom, and
School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, EH8 9AD, United Kingdom.

Artificial grammars (AG) are designed to emulate aspects of the structure of
language, and AG learning (AGL) paradigms can be used to study the extent of
nonhuman animals' structure-learning capabilities. However, different AG
structures have been used with nonhuman animals and are difficult to compare
across studies and species. We developed a simple quantitative parameter space,
which we used to summarize previous nonhuman animal AGL results. This was used to
highlight an under-studied AG with a forward-branching structure, designed to
model certain aspects of the nondeterministic nature of word transitions in
natural language and animal song. We tested whether two monkey species could
learn aspects of this auditory AG. After habituating the monkeys to the AG,
analysis of video recordings showed that common marmosets (New World monkeys)
differentiated between well formed, correct testing sequences and those violating
the AG structure based primarily on simple learning strategies. By comparison,
Rhesus macaques (Old World monkeys) showed evidence for deeper levels of AGL. A
novel eye-tracking approach confirmed this result in the macaques and
demonstrated evidence for more complex AGL. This study provides evidence for a
previously unknown level of AGL complexity in Old World monkeys that seems less
evident in New World monkeys, which are more distant evolutionary relatives to
humans. The findings allow for the development of both marmosets and macaques as 
neurobiological model systems to study different aspects of AGL at the neuronal
level.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2414-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3841451
PMID: 24285889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1479. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 25;8(11):e81502. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081502.
eCollection 2013.

The origin of the RB1 imprint.

Kanber D(1), Buiting K, Roos C, Gromoll J, Kaya S, Horsthemke B, Lohmann D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Humangenetik, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Essen, Germany.

The human RB1 gene is imprinted due to a differentially methylated CpG island in 
intron 2. This CpG island is part of PPP1R26P1, a truncated retrocopy of PPP1R26,
and serves as a promoter for an alternative RB1 transcript. We show here by in
silico analyses that the parental PPP1R26 gene is present in the analysed members
of Haplorrhini, which comprise Catarrhini (Old World Monkeys, Small apes, Great
Apes and Human), Platyrrhini (New World Monkeys) and tarsier, and Strepsirrhini
(galago). Interestingly, we detected the retrocopy, PPP1R26P1, in all
Anthropoidea (Catarrhini and Platyrrhini) that we studied but not in tarsier or
galago. Additional retrocopies are present in human and chimpanzee on chromosome 
22, but their distinct composition indicates that they are the result of
independent retrotransposition events. Chimpanzee and marmoset have further
retrocopies on chromosome 8 and chromosome 4, respectively. To examine the origin
of the RB1 imprint, we compared the methylation patterns of the parental PPP1R26 
gene and its retrocopies in different primates (human, chimpanzee, orangutan,
rhesus macaque, marmoset and galago). Methylation analysis by deep bisulfite
sequencing showed that PPP1R26 is methylated whereas the retrocopy in RB1 intron 
2 is differentially methylated in all primates studied. All other retrocopies are
fully methylated, except for the additional retrocopy on marmoset chromosome 4,
which is also differentially methylated. Using an informative SNP for the
methylation analysis in marmoset, we could show that the differential methylation
pattern of the retrocopy on chromosome 4 is allele-specific. We conclude that the
epigenetic fate of a PPP1R26 retrocopy after integration depends on the DNA
sequence and selective forces at the integration site.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081502 
PMCID: PMC3839921
PMID: 24282601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

