

1479. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 25;8(11):e81502. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081502.
eCollection 2013.

The origin of the RB1 imprint.

Kanber D(1), Buiting K, Roos C, Gromoll J, Kaya S, Horsthemke B, Lohmann D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Humangenetik, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Essen, Germany.

The human RB1 gene is imprinted due to a differentially methylated CpG island in 
intron 2. This CpG island is part of PPP1R26P1, a truncated retrocopy of PPP1R26,
and serves as a promoter for an alternative RB1 transcript. We show here by in
silico analyses that the parental PPP1R26 gene is present in the analysed members
of Haplorrhini, which comprise Catarrhini (Old World Monkeys, Small apes, Great
Apes and Human), Platyrrhini (New World Monkeys) and tarsier, and Strepsirrhini
(galago). Interestingly, we detected the retrocopy, PPP1R26P1, in all
Anthropoidea (Catarrhini and Platyrrhini) that we studied but not in tarsier or
galago. Additional retrocopies are present in human and chimpanzee on chromosome 
22, but their distinct composition indicates that they are the result of
independent retrotransposition events. Chimpanzee and marmoset have further
retrocopies on chromosome 8 and chromosome 4, respectively. To examine the origin
of the RB1 imprint, we compared the methylation patterns of the parental PPP1R26 
gene and its retrocopies in different primates (human, chimpanzee, orangutan,
rhesus macaque, marmoset and galago). Methylation analysis by deep bisulfite
sequencing showed that PPP1R26 is methylated whereas the retrocopy in RB1 intron 
2 is differentially methylated in all primates studied. All other retrocopies are
fully methylated, except for the additional retrocopy on marmoset chromosome 4,
which is also differentially methylated. Using an informative SNP for the
methylation analysis in marmoset, we could show that the differential methylation
pattern of the retrocopy on chromosome 4 is allele-specific. We conclude that the
epigenetic fate of a PPP1R26 retrocopy after integration depends on the DNA
sequence and selective forces at the integration site.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081502 
PMCID: PMC3839921
PMID: 24282601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1480. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Feb 1;259:336-41. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.11.026. Epub 2013
Nov 23.

Time-of-day effect on a food-induced conditioned place preference task in
monkeys.

Monclaro AV(1), Sampaio AC(1), Ribeiro NB(1), Barros M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil. Electronic address:
mbarros@unb.br.

Time can be an important contextual cue for cognitive performance, with
implications for reward-associated learned behaviors such as (drug and food)
addiction. So, we analyzed: (1) if marmoset monkeys develop a place preference
that is conditioned to previous pairings with a highly-palatable food reward; (2)
if the response is strongest when training and testing times match - time stamp
effect; and (3) if there is an optimal time of the day (morning vs. afternoon)
when this preference occurs - time-of-day effect. Subjects were first habituated 
to a two-compartment conditioned-place-preference (CPP) box. Then, during six
training sessions held either in the morning or afternoon, a mixture of
jellybeans and live mealworms was made available in a specific compartment.
Marmosets were subsequently tested for preferring the food-paired context at the 
circadian time that either matched or was different from that of training.
Compared to baseline levels, only subjects trained and tested in the afternoon
made significantly longer and more frequent visits to the food-paired context and
with a shorter latency to first entry. Thus, highly-palatable food rewards
induced a CPP response. This behavior was exhibited only when training and
testing times overlapped and during a restricted circadian timeframe (afternoon),
consistent with a time-stamp and time-of-day effect, respectively. In this case, 
time may have been an internal circadian contextual cue. Whether due to
circadian-mediated oscillations in memory and/or reward processes, such findings 
may be applied to addiction and other learned behaviors.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.11.026 
PMID: 24280121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

