

1481. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 11;8(11):e78793. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078793.
eCollection 2013.

Characterization of circulating natural killer cells in neotropical primates.

Carville A(1), Evans TI, Reeves RK.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology, New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical
School, Southborough Campus, Southborough, Massachusetts, United States of
America.

Despite extensive use of nonhuman primates as models for infectious diseases and 
reproductive biology, imprecise phenotypic and functional definitions exist for
natural killer (NK) cells. This deficit is particularly significant in the
burgeoning use of small, less expensive New World primate species. Using
polychromatic flow cytometry, we identified peripheral blood NK cells as
CD3-negative and expressing a cluster of cell surface molecules characteristic of
NK cells (i.e., NKG2A, NKp46, NKp30) in three New World primate species - common 
marmosets, cotton-top tamarins, and squirrel monkeys. We then assessed subset
distribution using the classical NK markers, CD56 and CD16. In all species,
similar to Old World primates, only a minor subset of NK cells was CD56+, and the
dominant subset was CD56-CD16+. Interestingly, CD56+ NK cells were primarily
cytokine-secreting cells, whereas CD56-CD16+ NK cells expressed significantly
greater levels of intracellular perforin, suggesting these cells might have
greater potential for cytotoxicity. New World primate species, like Old World
primates, also had a minor CD56-CD16- NK cell subset that has no obvious
counterpart in humans. Herein we present phenotypic profiles of New World primate
NK cell subpopulations that are generally analogous to those found in humans.
This conservation among species should support the further use of these species
for biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078793 
PMCID: PMC3823947
PMID: 24244365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1482. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 14;8(11):e78750. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078750.
eCollection 2013.

A novel nonhuman primate model for influenza transmission.

Moncla LH(1), Ross TM, Dinis JM, Weinfurter JT, Mortimer TD, Schultz-Darken N,
Brunner K, Capuano SV 3rd, Boettcher C, Post J, Johnson M, Bloom CE, Weiler AM,
Friedrich TC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiological Sciences, University of Wisconsin School of
Veterinary Medicine, Madison, Wisconsin, United States of America ; Wisconsin
National Primate Research Center, Madison, Wisconsin, United States of America ; 
University of Wisconsin Microbiology Doctoral Training Program, Madison,
Wisconsin, United States of America.

Studies of influenza transmission are necessary to predict the pandemic potential
of emerging influenza viruses. Currently, both ferrets and guinea pigs are used
in such studies, but these species are distantly related to humans. Nonhuman
primates (NHP) share a close phylogenetic relationship with humans and may
provide an enhanced means to model the virological and immunological events in
influenza virus transmission. Here, for the first time, it was demonstrated that 
a human influenza virus isolate can productively infect and be transmitted
between common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey species. We
inoculated four marmosets with the 2009 pandemic virus A/California/07/2009
(H1N1pdm) and housed each together with a na√Øve cage mate. We collected
bronchoalveolar lavage and nasal wash samples from all animals at regular
intervals for three weeks post-inoculation to track virus replication and
sequence evolution. The unadapted 2009 H1N1pdm virus replicated to high titers in
all four index animals by 1 day post-infection. Infected animals seroconverted
and presented human-like symptoms including sneezing, nasal discharge, labored
breathing, and lung damage. Transmission occurred in one cohabitating pair. Deep 
sequencing detected relatively few genetic changes in H1N1pdm viruses replicating
in any infected animal. Together our data suggest that human H1N1pdm viruses
require little adaptation to replicate and cause disease in marmosets, and that
these viruses can be transmitted between animals. Marmosets may therefore be a
viable model for studying influenza virus transmission.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078750 
PMCID: PMC3828296
PMID: 24244352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

