

1483. Neuroscience. 2014 Jan 17;257:158-74. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.10.067.
Epub 2013 Nov 9.

Fetal sulcation and gyrification in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
obtained by ex vivo magnetic resonance imaging.

Sawada K(1), Hikishima K(2), Murayama AY(3), Okano HJ(4), Sasaki E(5), Okano
H(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences,
Tsukuba International University, Tsuchiura, Japan. Electronic address:
k-sawada@tius.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
RIKEN Keio University Joint Research Laboratory, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Wako, Japan.
(4)Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(5)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(6)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
RIKEN Keio University Joint Research Laboratory, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Wako, Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

The present study characterized fetal sulcation patterns and gyrification in the 
cerebrum of the New World monkey group, common marmosets, using a 3D T2-weighted 
high-resolution anatomical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequence from the
fixed brain at 7-tesla ex vivo. Fetal sulcation in the marmoset cerebrum began to
indent the lateral fissure and hippocampal sulcus in gestational week (GW) 12,
and then the following sulci emerged: the callosal and calcarine sulci on GW 15; 
the superior temporal sulcus on GW 17; and the circular and occipitotemporal
sulci on GW 18. The degree of cortical convolution was evaluated quantitatively
based on 2D MRI slices by the gyrification index (GI) and based on 3D MRI data by
sulcation index (SI). Both the mean GI and SI increased from GW 16, and were
closely correlated with the cortical volume and the cortical surface area during 
fetal periods (their correlation coefficients marked more than 0.95). After
birth, both the mean GI and SI decreased slightly by 2years of age, whereas the
cortical volume and surface area continuously increased. Notably, histological
analysis showed that the outer subventricular zone (oSVZ) in non-sulcal regions
was thicker than that in the presumptive calcarine sulcal region on GW 13,
preceding the infolding of the calcarine sulcus. The present results showed
definite sulcal infolding on the cerebral cortical surface of the marmosets, with
similar pattern and sequence of their emergences to other higher-order primates
such as macaques and humans. Differential expansion of the oSVZ may be involved
in gyral convolution and sulcal infolding in the developing cerebrum.

Copyright © 2013 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.10.067 
PMID: 24220690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1484. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2015 Jan;82 Pt B:348-57. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.10.017.
Epub 2013 Nov 4.

The systematics and evolution of New World primates - A review.

Schneider H(1), Sampaio I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Estudos Costeiros, Universidade Federal do Pará, Campus de
Bragança, Alameda Leandro Ribeiro s/n, Bragança, Pará, CEP 68600-000, Brazil.
Electronic address: horacio@ufpa.br.
(2)Instituto de Estudos Costeiros, Universidade Federal do Pará, Campus de
Bragança, Alameda Leandro Ribeiro s/n, Bragança, Pará, CEP 68600-000, Brazil.
Electronic address: ira@ufpa.br.

This paper provides an overview of the taxonomy of New World primates from
proposals of the 1980's based on morphology to the great number of studies based 
on molecular data aiming for the elucidation of the phylogeny of New World
monkeys. The innovations of the first molecular phylogeny presented by Schneider 
et al. (1993) positioned Callimico as a sister group of Callithrix and Cebuella; 
Callicebus as a member of the pitheciids; Brachyteles as sister to Lagothrix; and
the night monkeys (Aotus), capuchins (Cebus) and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri) in
the same clade with the small callitrichines. These results were subsequently
confirmed by dozens of subsequent studies using data from DNA sequences. Some
issues difficult to resolve with the phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences, such
as the diversification of the oldest lineages (pitheciids, atelids and cebids),
and the confirmation of Aotus as a member of the Cebinae clade (together with
Cebus/Saimiri), were clarified with new molecular approaches based on the
presence or absence of Alu insertions as well as through the use of
phylogenomics. At this time, all relationships at the intergeneric level had been
deciphered, with the exception of the definition of the sister group of
callitrichines (whether Aotus or Cebus/Saimiri are sister to callitrichines, or
if Aotus, Saimiri and Cebus form a clade together). Future studies should
prioritize the alpha taxonomy of most Neotropical primate groups, and the use of 
phylogenetic and geographic data, combined with reliable estimates of divergence 
times, to clarify the taxonomic status at species and genus level, as well as to 
help understand the evolutionary history of this remarkable and highly
diversified group.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.10.017 
PMID: 24201058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

