

1487. Cells Tissues Organs. 2013;198(3):209-20. doi: 10.1159/000355339. Epub 2013 Nov
2.

Grafting of Neonatal marmoset monkey testicular single-cell suspensions into
immunodeficient mice leads to ex situ testicular cord neomorphogenesis.

Aeckerle N(1), Dressel R, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Single-cell suspensions derived from immature rodent and ungulate testes can
reconstitute testicular cords upon grafting into immunodeficient mice. In the
present study, neonatal common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) testes were
digested to a single-cell suspension, which was transplanted subcutaneously into 
immunodeficient mice. After 9 or 18 weeks of incubation, the derivatives of the
grafted single-cell suspensions were retrieved and analyzed histologically and
immunohistochemically. Three of 4 (75%) neonatal grafts exhibited reconstituted
seminiferous cords strongly resembling seminiferous cords of the intact neonatal 
testis. The cords consisted of Sertoli cells, germ cells and peritubular myoid
cells, which was confirmed by immunohistochemical marker analysis.
Three-dimensional reconstruction models of the grafts revealed elongated tubules.
Some of the tubules were branched, which occurs also in vivo, as we show here for
the marmoset monkey. Importantly, no teratoma formation by immature pluripotency 
factor-expressing germ cells was observed. In summary, the reconstituted
testicular cords were almost indistinguishable from the cords formed in situ,
thereby impressively demonstrating a very high reconstructive potential of a
single-cell suspension obtained from the neonatal marmoset monkey testis. To our 
knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating testicular cord neomorphogenesis
for a primate species ex situ.

DOI: 10.1159/000355339 
PMID: 24192033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1488. Brain Struct Funct. 2015 Jan;220(1):351-60. doi: 10.1007/s00429-013-0659-7. Epub 
2013 Oct 31.

Retrograde transneuronal degeneration in the retina and lateral geniculate
nucleus of the V1-lesioned marmoset monkey.

Hendrickson A(1), Warner CE, Possin D, Huang J, Kwan WC, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Box 358058, Seattle,
WA, 98109, USA.

Retrograde transneuronal degeneration (RTD) of retinal ganglion cells and dorsal 
lateral geniculate (LGN) neurons are well described following a lesion of the
primary visual cortex (V1) in both Old World monkeys and humans. Based on
previous studies of New World monkeys and prosimians, it was suggested that these
species displayed no RTD following a lesion of V1. In this study of the New World
marmoset monkey, 1 year after a unilateral V1 lesion either in adults or at 14
days after birth, we observed ~20 % ganglion cell (GC) loss in adult but ~70 % in
infants. This finding is similar to the RTD previously described for Old World
Macaca monkeys. Furthermore, in infants we find a similar amount of RTD at 3
weeks and 1 year following lesion, demonstrating that RTD is very rapid in
neonates. This highlights the importance of trying to prevent the rapid onset of 
RTD following a lesion of V1 in early life as a strategy for improved functional 
recovery. Despite differences in GC loss, there was little difference between LGN
degeneration in infant versus adult lesions. A wedge on the horizontal meridian
corresponding to the LGN foveal representation revealed extensive neuronal loss. 
Retinal afferent input was labeled by cholera toxin B subunit. Input to the
degenerated parvocellular layers was difficult to detect, while input to
magnocellular and koniocellular layers was reduced but still apparent. Our
demonstration that the New World marmoset monkey shares many of the features of
neuroplasticity with Old World Macaca monkeys and humans emphasizes the
opportunity and benefit of marmosets as models of visual cortical injury.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-013-0659-7 
PMID: 24173617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

