

1488. Brain Struct Funct. 2015 Jan;220(1):351-60. doi: 10.1007/s00429-013-0659-7. Epub 
2013 Oct 31.

Retrograde transneuronal degeneration in the retina and lateral geniculate
nucleus of the V1-lesioned marmoset monkey.

Hendrickson A(1), Warner CE, Possin D, Huang J, Kwan WC, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Box 358058, Seattle,
WA, 98109, USA.

Retrograde transneuronal degeneration (RTD) of retinal ganglion cells and dorsal 
lateral geniculate (LGN) neurons are well described following a lesion of the
primary visual cortex (V1) in both Old World monkeys and humans. Based on
previous studies of New World monkeys and prosimians, it was suggested that these
species displayed no RTD following a lesion of V1. In this study of the New World
marmoset monkey, 1 year after a unilateral V1 lesion either in adults or at 14
days after birth, we observed ~20 % ganglion cell (GC) loss in adult but ~70 % in
infants. This finding is similar to the RTD previously described for Old World
Macaca monkeys. Furthermore, in infants we find a similar amount of RTD at 3
weeks and 1 year following lesion, demonstrating that RTD is very rapid in
neonates. This highlights the importance of trying to prevent the rapid onset of 
RTD following a lesion of V1 in early life as a strategy for improved functional 
recovery. Despite differences in GC loss, there was little difference between LGN
degeneration in infant versus adult lesions. A wedge on the horizontal meridian
corresponding to the LGN foveal representation revealed extensive neuronal loss. 
Retinal afferent input was labeled by cholera toxin B subunit. Input to the
degenerated parvocellular layers was difficult to detect, while input to
magnocellular and koniocellular layers was reduced but still apparent. Our
demonstration that the New World marmoset monkey shares many of the features of
neuroplasticity with Old World Macaca monkeys and humans emphasizes the
opportunity and benefit of marmosets as models of visual cortical injury.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-013-0659-7 
PMID: 24173617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1489. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Nov 12;110(46):18537-42. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1317608110. Epub 2013 Oct 28.

Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen leader protein localizes to promoters and
enhancers with cell transcription factors and EBNA2.

Portal D(1), Zhou H, Zhao B, Kharchenko PV, Lowry E, Wong L, Quackenbush J,
Holloway D, Jiang S, Lu Y, Kieff E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Department of
Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard University, Boston, MA 02115.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigens EBNALP (LP) and EBNA2 (E2) are
coexpressed in EBV-infected B lymphocytes and are critical for lymphoblastoid
cell line outgrowth. LP removes NCOR and RBPJ repressive complexes from
promoters, enhancers, and matrix-associated deacetylase bodies, whereas E2
activates transcription from distal enhancers. LP ChIP-seq analyses identified
19,224 LP sites of which ~50% were ± 2 kb of a transcriptional start site. LP
sites were enriched for B-cell transcription factors (TFs), YY1, SP1, PAX5, BATF,
IRF4, ETS1, RAD21, PU.1, CTCF, RBPJ, ZNF143, SMC3, NFκB, TBLR, and EBF. E2 sites 
were also highly enriched for LP-associated cell TFs and were more highly
occupied by RBPJ and EBF. LP sites were highly marked by H3K4me3, H3K27ac, H2Az, 
H3K9ac, RNAPII, and P300, indicative of activated transcription. LP sites were
29% colocalized with E2 (LP/E2). LP/E2 sites were more similar to LP than to E2
sites in associated cell TFs, RNAPII, P300, and histone H3K4me3, H3K9ac, H3K27ac,
and H2Az occupancy, and were more highly transcribed than LP or E2 sites. Gene
affected by CTCF and LP cooccupancy were more highly expressed than genes
affected by CTCF alone. LP was at myc enhancers and promoters and of MYC
regulated ccnd2, 23 med complex components, and MYC regulated cell survival
genes, igf2r and bcl2. These data implicate LP and associated TFs and DNA looping
factors CTCF, RAD21, SMC3, and YY1/INO80 chromatin-remodeling complexes in
repressor depletion and gene activation necessary for lymphoblastoid cell line
growth and survival.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1317608110 
PMCID: PMC3832032
PMID: 24167291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

