

1489. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Nov 12;110(46):18537-42. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1317608110. Epub 2013 Oct 28.

Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen leader protein localizes to promoters and
enhancers with cell transcription factors and EBNA2.

Portal D(1), Zhou H, Zhao B, Kharchenko PV, Lowry E, Wong L, Quackenbush J,
Holloway D, Jiang S, Lu Y, Kieff E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Department of
Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard University, Boston, MA 02115.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigens EBNALP (LP) and EBNA2 (E2) are
coexpressed in EBV-infected B lymphocytes and are critical for lymphoblastoid
cell line outgrowth. LP removes NCOR and RBPJ repressive complexes from
promoters, enhancers, and matrix-associated deacetylase bodies, whereas E2
activates transcription from distal enhancers. LP ChIP-seq analyses identified
19,224 LP sites of which ~50% were ± 2 kb of a transcriptional start site. LP
sites were enriched for B-cell transcription factors (TFs), YY1, SP1, PAX5, BATF,
IRF4, ETS1, RAD21, PU.1, CTCF, RBPJ, ZNF143, SMC3, NFκB, TBLR, and EBF. E2 sites 
were also highly enriched for LP-associated cell TFs and were more highly
occupied by RBPJ and EBF. LP sites were highly marked by H3K4me3, H3K27ac, H2Az, 
H3K9ac, RNAPII, and P300, indicative of activated transcription. LP sites were
29% colocalized with E2 (LP/E2). LP/E2 sites were more similar to LP than to E2
sites in associated cell TFs, RNAPII, P300, and histone H3K4me3, H3K9ac, H3K27ac,
and H2Az occupancy, and were more highly transcribed than LP or E2 sites. Gene
affected by CTCF and LP cooccupancy were more highly expressed than genes
affected by CTCF alone. LP was at myc enhancers and promoters and of MYC
regulated ccnd2, 23 med complex components, and MYC regulated cell survival
genes, igf2r and bcl2. These data implicate LP and associated TFs and DNA looping
factors CTCF, RAD21, SMC3, and YY1/INO80 chromatin-remodeling complexes in
repressor depletion and gene activation necessary for lymphoblastoid cell line
growth and survival.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1317608110 
PMCID: PMC3832032
PMID: 24167291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1490. Vis Neurosci. 2014 Jan;31(1):85-98. doi: 10.1017/S0952523813000448. Epub 2013 Oct
25.

Uniformity and diversity of response properties of neurons in the primary visual 
cortex: selectivity for orientation, direction of motion, and stimulus size from 
center to far periphery.

Yu HH(1), Rosa MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Although the primary visual cortex (V1) is one of the most extensively studied
areas of the primate brain, very little is known about how the far periphery of
visual space is represented in this area. We characterized the physiological
response properties of V1 neurons in anaesthetized marmoset monkeys, using
high-contrast drifting gratings. Comparisons were made between cells with
receptive fields located in three regions of V1, defined by eccentricity: central
(3-5°), near peripheral (5-15°), and far peripheral (>50°). We found that
orientation selectivity of individual cells was similar from the center to the
far periphery. Nonetheless, the proportion of orientation-selective neurons was
higher in central visual field representation than in the peripheral
representations. In addition, there were similar proportions of cells
representing all orientations, with the exception of the representation of the
far periphery, where we detected a bias favoring near-horizontal orientations.
The proportions of direction-selective cells were similar throughout V1. When the
center/surround organization of the receptive fields was tested with gratings
with varying diameters, we found that the population of neurons that was
suppressed by large gratings was smaller in the far periphery, although the
strength of suppression in these cells tended to be stronger. In addition, the
ratio between the diameters of the excitatory centers and suppressive surrounds
was similar across the entire visual field. These results suggest that,
superimposed on the broad uniformity of V1, there are subtle physiological
differences, which indicate that spatial information is processed differently in 
the central versus far peripheral visual fields.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523813000448 
PMID: 24160942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

