

1490. Vis Neurosci. 2014 Jan;31(1):85-98. doi: 10.1017/S0952523813000448. Epub 2013 Oct
25.

Uniformity and diversity of response properties of neurons in the primary visual 
cortex: selectivity for orientation, direction of motion, and stimulus size from 
center to far periphery.

Yu HH(1), Rosa MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Although the primary visual cortex (V1) is one of the most extensively studied
areas of the primate brain, very little is known about how the far periphery of
visual space is represented in this area. We characterized the physiological
response properties of V1 neurons in anaesthetized marmoset monkeys, using
high-contrast drifting gratings. Comparisons were made between cells with
receptive fields located in three regions of V1, defined by eccentricity: central
(3-5°), near peripheral (5-15°), and far peripheral (>50°). We found that
orientation selectivity of individual cells was similar from the center to the
far periphery. Nonetheless, the proportion of orientation-selective neurons was
higher in central visual field representation than in the peripheral
representations. In addition, there were similar proportions of cells
representing all orientations, with the exception of the representation of the
far periphery, where we detected a bias favoring near-horizontal orientations.
The proportions of direction-selective cells were similar throughout V1. When the
center/surround organization of the receptive fields was tested with gratings
with varying diameters, we found that the population of neurons that was
suppressed by large gratings was smaller in the far periphery, although the
strength of suppression in these cells tended to be stronger. In addition, the
ratio between the diameters of the excitatory centers and suppressive surrounds
was similar across the entire visual field. These results suggest that,
superimposed on the broad uniformity of V1, there are subtle physiological
differences, which indicate that spatial information is processed differently in 
the central versus far peripheral visual fields.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523813000448 
PMID: 24160942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1491. J Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Sep;26(3):301-7. doi: 10.1293/tox.26.301. Epub 2013 Oct
15.

Spontaneous Malignant T Cell Lymphoma in a Young Male Common Marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Yamaguchi I(1), Myojo K, Sanada H, Sudo E, Ootsuka S, Okumura H, Takami A,
Yoneshige T, Suzuki Y, Imaizumi M, Takada C, Kimoto N, Saeki K, Takaba K.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicological Research Laboratories, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.

We histopathologically and immunohistochemically investigated a case of malignant
lymphoma that spontaneously developed in a male common marmoset at two years of
age. Beginning at two years four months of age, the animal had an enlargement of 
the submandibular and inguinal lymph nodes, small subcutaneous nodules near the
right breast and an approximately fivefold increase in peripheral lymphocyte
count compared with the previous examination value. The postmortem findings at
two years eight months of age showed lymphadenopathy with enlargement of the
thymus and spleen. Small- to intermediate-sized neoplastic lymphocytes had
diffusely proliferated in the enlarged nodes. The neoplastic cells were
pleomorphic and had irregularly shaped nuclei. The nuclear chromatin staining
revealed hyperchromatism in the small-sized cells, and the intermediate-sized
cells exhibited vesicular staining. An immunohistochemical examination indicated 
that the neoplastic lymphocytes were positive for CD3 and negative for CD20, thus
suggesting that they had originated from T cells. In addition, the proliferation 
of high endothelial venules and reactive epithelioid histiocytes was observed.
Scattered tingible body-laden macrophages were infrequently detected. Neoplastic 
lymphocytes were also observed in the thymus, spleen, heart, lungs, liver,
kidneys, adrenal glands and femoral and sternal bone marrow. This malignant
lymphoma in a young male common marmoset was considered to fit the category of
"peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS)" according to the
new WHO system of classification.

DOI: 10.1293/tox.26.301 
PMCID: PMC3787608
PMID: 24155563 

