

1491. J Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Sep;26(3):301-7. doi: 10.1293/tox.26.301. Epub 2013 Oct
15.

Spontaneous Malignant T Cell Lymphoma in a Young Male Common Marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Yamaguchi I(1), Myojo K, Sanada H, Sudo E, Ootsuka S, Okumura H, Takami A,
Yoneshige T, Suzuki Y, Imaizumi M, Takada C, Kimoto N, Saeki K, Takaba K.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicological Research Laboratories, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.

We histopathologically and immunohistochemically investigated a case of malignant
lymphoma that spontaneously developed in a male common marmoset at two years of
age. Beginning at two years four months of age, the animal had an enlargement of 
the submandibular and inguinal lymph nodes, small subcutaneous nodules near the
right breast and an approximately fivefold increase in peripheral lymphocyte
count compared with the previous examination value. The postmortem findings at
two years eight months of age showed lymphadenopathy with enlargement of the
thymus and spleen. Small- to intermediate-sized neoplastic lymphocytes had
diffusely proliferated in the enlarged nodes. The neoplastic cells were
pleomorphic and had irregularly shaped nuclei. The nuclear chromatin staining
revealed hyperchromatism in the small-sized cells, and the intermediate-sized
cells exhibited vesicular staining. An immunohistochemical examination indicated 
that the neoplastic lymphocytes were positive for CD3 and negative for CD20, thus
suggesting that they had originated from T cells. In addition, the proliferation 
of high endothelial venules and reactive epithelioid histiocytes was observed.
Scattered tingible body-laden macrophages were infrequently detected. Neoplastic 
lymphocytes were also observed in the thymus, spleen, heart, lungs, liver,
kidneys, adrenal glands and femoral and sternal bone marrow. This malignant
lymphoma in a young male common marmoset was considered to fit the category of
"peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS)" according to the
new WHO system of classification.

DOI: 10.1293/tox.26.301 
PMCID: PMC3787608
PMID: 24155563 


1492. J Neurophysiol. 2014 Jan;111(2):369-78. doi: 10.1152/jn.00254.2013. Epub 2013 Oct
23.

Integration and segregation of multiple motion signals by neurons in area MT of
primate.

McDonald JS(1), Clifford CW, Solomon SS, Chen SC, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, The University of Sydney, New
South Wales, Australia;

We used multielectrode arrays to measure the response of populations of neurons
in primate middle temporal area to the transparent motion of two superimposed dot
fields moving in different directions. The shape of the population response was
well predicted by the sum of the responses to the constituent fields. However,
the population response profile for transparent dot fields was similar to that
for coherent plaid motion and hence an unreliable cue to transparency. We then
used single-unit recording to characterize component and pattern cells from their
response to drifting plaids. Unlike for plaids, component cells responded to the 
average direction of superimposed dot fields, whereas pattern cells could signal 
the constituent motions. This observation provides support for a strong
prediction of the Simoncelli and Heeger (1998) model of motion analysis in area
middle temporal, and suggests that pattern cells have a special status in the
processing of superimposed dot fields.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00254.2013 
PMID: 24155007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

