

1494. J Exp Biol. 2014 Feb 15;217(Pt 4):482-8. doi: 10.1242/jeb.089177. Epub 2013 Oct
18.

Mechanical output in jumps of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Bobbert MF(1), Plas RL, Weide G, Clairbois HE, Hofman SO, Jaspers RT, Philippens 
IH.

Author information: 
(1)MOVE Research Institute Amsterdam, Faculty of Human Movement Sciences, VU
University Amsterdam, Van der Boechorstraat 9, NL-1081 BT Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

In this study we determined the mechanical output of common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) during jumping. Vertical ground reaction forces were measured in 18
animals while they jumped from an instrumented crossbar to a crossbar located 70 
cm higher. From the vertical force time histories, we calculated the rate of
change of mechanical energy of the centre of mass (dE/dt). The mean value of
dE/dt during the push-off amounted to 51.8±6.2 W kg(-1) body mass, and the peak
value to 116.4±17.6 W kg(-1) body mass. We used these values in combination with 
masses of leg muscles, determined in two specimens, to estimate mean and peak
values of dE/dt of 430 and 970 W kg(-1) muscle, respectively. These values are
higher than values reported in the literature for jumps of humans and bonobos,
but smaller than those of jumps of bushbabies. Surprisingly, the mean value of
dE/dt of 430 W kg(-1) muscle was close to the maximal power output of 516 W
kg(-1) muscle reported in the literature for isokinetic contractions of rat
medial gastrocnemius, one of the fastest mammalian muscles. Further study of the 
force-velocity relationship of muscle tissue of small primates is indicated.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.089177 
PMID: 24143030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1495. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2013 Jul-Sep;22(3):391-7. doi:
10.1590/S1984-29612013000300012.

Helminths of wild hybrid marmosets (Callithrix sp.) living in an environment with
high human activity.

Tavela Ade O(1), Fuzessy LF, e Silva VH, da Silva Fde F, Junior MC, Silva Ide O, 
Souza VB.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, SC, Brasil.

The objective of this study was to identify the helminth fauna in hybrid,
non-native marmosets, through analysis of fecal samples. The study involved 51
marmosets (genus Callithrix) from five groups living in places with levels of
human impact in Viçosa-MG. The marmosets were caught using a multiple-entrance
trap and were anaesthetized. Feces were collected, refrigerated and analyzed by
means of the sedimentation technique (Hoffmann-Pons-Janner). Eggs and parasites
were identified, but not counted. Most of the marmosets (86%) were parasitized by
at least one genus of helminths. Among the infected marmosets, 37% presented
co-infection. The intestinal helminths comprised four different taxa:
Primasubulura jacchi, Ancylostomatidae, Prosthenorchis sp. and Dilepididae. P.
jacchi and Ancylostomatidae had higher prevalences (> 80% and > 40%,
respectively) and were found in all marmoset groups. Dilepididae species were
found in almost all the groups, but only accounted for around 30% of the
marmosets. Prosthenorchis sp. showed a relatively low prevalence (< 10%) and was 
only found in one group. Although two parasites are commonly found in marmosets
and other primates (P. jacchi and Prosthenorchis sp.), our study is the first
record for Ancylostomatidae and Dilepididae. Factors like marmosets' feeding
behavior and their contact with humans and other species of nonhuman primates
seem to be determinants of infection among marmosets.

DOI: 10.1590/S1984-29612013000300012 
PMID: 24142171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

