

1495. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2013 Jul-Sep;22(3):391-7. doi:
10.1590/S1984-29612013000300012.

Helminths of wild hybrid marmosets (Callithrix sp.) living in an environment with
high human activity.

Tavela Ade O(1), Fuzessy LF, e Silva VH, da Silva Fde F, Junior MC, Silva Ide O, 
Souza VB.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, SC, Brasil.

The objective of this study was to identify the helminth fauna in hybrid,
non-native marmosets, through analysis of fecal samples. The study involved 51
marmosets (genus Callithrix) from five groups living in places with levels of
human impact in Viçosa-MG. The marmosets were caught using a multiple-entrance
trap and were anaesthetized. Feces were collected, refrigerated and analyzed by
means of the sedimentation technique (Hoffmann-Pons-Janner). Eggs and parasites
were identified, but not counted. Most of the marmosets (86%) were parasitized by
at least one genus of helminths. Among the infected marmosets, 37% presented
co-infection. The intestinal helminths comprised four different taxa:
Primasubulura jacchi, Ancylostomatidae, Prosthenorchis sp. and Dilepididae. P.
jacchi and Ancylostomatidae had higher prevalences (> 80% and > 40%,
respectively) and were found in all marmoset groups. Dilepididae species were
found in almost all the groups, but only accounted for around 30% of the
marmosets. Prosthenorchis sp. showed a relatively low prevalence (< 10%) and was 
only found in one group. Although two parasites are commonly found in marmosets
and other primates (P. jacchi and Prosthenorchis sp.), our study is the first
record for Ancylostomatidae and Dilepididae. Factors like marmosets' feeding
behavior and their contact with humans and other species of nonhuman primates
seem to be determinants of infection among marmosets.

DOI: 10.1590/S1984-29612013000300012 
PMID: 24142171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1496. Curr Biol. 2013 Nov 4;23(21):2162-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.09.005. Epub 2013
Oct 17.

Coupled oscillator dynamics of vocal turn-taking in monkeys.

Takahashi DY(1), Narayanan DZ, Ghazanfar AA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08540, USA;
Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08540, USA.
Electronic address: takahashiyd@gmail.com.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2013 Nov 4;23(21):R967-9.

Cooperation is central to human communication. The foundation of cooperative
verbal communication is taking turns to speak. Given the universality of
turn-taking, it is natural to ask how it evolved. We used marmoset monkeys to
explore whether another primate species exhibits cooperative vocal communication 
by taking turns. Marmosets share with humans a cooperative breeding strategy and 
volubility. Cooperative care behaviors are thought to scaffold prosocial
cognitive processes. Moreover, marmosets and other callitrichid primates are very
vocal and readily exchange vocalizations with conspecifics. By measuring the
natural statistics of marmoset vocal exchanges, we observed that they take turns 
in extended sequences and show that this vocal turn-taking has as its foundation 
dynamics characteristic of coupled oscillators--one that is similar to the
dynamics proposed for human conversational turn-taking. As marmoset monkeys are
on a different branch of the evolutionary tree that led to humans, our data
demonstrate convergent evolution of vocal cooperation. Perhaps more importantly, 
our data offer a plausible alternative scenario to "gestural origin" hypotheses
for how human cooperative vocal communication could have evolved.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.09.005 
PMID: 24139740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

