

1496. Curr Biol. 2013 Nov 4;23(21):2162-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.09.005. Epub 2013
Oct 17.

Coupled oscillator dynamics of vocal turn-taking in monkeys.

Takahashi DY(1), Narayanan DZ, Ghazanfar AA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08540, USA;
Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08540, USA.
Electronic address: takahashiyd@gmail.com.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2013 Nov 4;23(21):R967-9.

Cooperation is central to human communication. The foundation of cooperative
verbal communication is taking turns to speak. Given the universality of
turn-taking, it is natural to ask how it evolved. We used marmoset monkeys to
explore whether another primate species exhibits cooperative vocal communication 
by taking turns. Marmosets share with humans a cooperative breeding strategy and 
volubility. Cooperative care behaviors are thought to scaffold prosocial
cognitive processes. Moreover, marmosets and other callitrichid primates are very
vocal and readily exchange vocalizations with conspecifics. By measuring the
natural statistics of marmoset vocal exchanges, we observed that they take turns 
in extended sequences and show that this vocal turn-taking has as its foundation 
dynamics characteristic of coupled oscillators--one that is similar to the
dynamics proposed for human conversational turn-taking. As marmoset monkeys are
on a different branch of the evolutionary tree that led to humans, our data
demonstrate convergent evolution of vocal cooperation. Perhaps more importantly, 
our data offer a plausible alternative scenario to "gestural origin" hypotheses
for how human cooperative vocal communication could have evolved.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.09.005 
PMID: 24139740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1497. J Anat. 2014 Feb;224(2):95-107. doi: 10.1111/joa.12132. Epub 2013 Oct 21.

The anatomy of the caudal zona incerta in rodents and primates.

Watson C(1), Lind CR, Thomas MG.

Author information: 
(1)Curtin University, Perth, Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, 
Australia.

The caudal zona incerta is the target of a recent modification of established
procedures for deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease and tremor.
The caudal zona incerta contains a number of neuronal populations that are
distinct in terms of their cytoarchitecture, connections, and pattern of
immunomarkers and is located at a position where a number of major tracts
converge before turning toward their final destination in the forebrain. However,
it is not clear which of the anatomical features of the region are related to its
value as a target for DBS. This paper has tried to identify features that
distinguish the caudal zona incerta of rodents (mouse and rat) and primates
(marmoset, rhesus monkey, and human) from the remainder of the zona incerta. We
studied cytoarchitecture, anatomical relationships, the pattern of immunomarkers,
and gene expression in both of these areas. We found that the caudal zona incerta
has a number of histological and gene expression characteristics that distinguish
it from the other subdivisions of the zona incerta. Of particular note are the
sparse population of GABA neurons and the small but distinctive population of
calbindin neurons. We hope that a clearer appreciation of the anatomy of the
region will in the end assist the interpretation of cases in which DBS is used in
human patients.

© 2013 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.12132 
PMCID: PMC3969054
PMID: 24138151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

