

1497. J Anat. 2014 Feb;224(2):95-107. doi: 10.1111/joa.12132. Epub 2013 Oct 21.

The anatomy of the caudal zona incerta in rodents and primates.

Watson C(1), Lind CR, Thomas MG.

Author information: 
(1)Curtin University, Perth, Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, 
Australia.

The caudal zona incerta is the target of a recent modification of established
procedures for deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease and tremor.
The caudal zona incerta contains a number of neuronal populations that are
distinct in terms of their cytoarchitecture, connections, and pattern of
immunomarkers and is located at a position where a number of major tracts
converge before turning toward their final destination in the forebrain. However,
it is not clear which of the anatomical features of the region are related to its
value as a target for DBS. This paper has tried to identify features that
distinguish the caudal zona incerta of rodents (mouse and rat) and primates
(marmoset, rhesus monkey, and human) from the remainder of the zona incerta. We
studied cytoarchitecture, anatomical relationships, the pattern of immunomarkers,
and gene expression in both of these areas. We found that the caudal zona incerta
has a number of histological and gene expression characteristics that distinguish
it from the other subdivisions of the zona incerta. Of particular note are the
sparse population of GABA neurons and the small but distinctive population of
calbindin neurons. We hope that a clearer appreciation of the anatomy of the
region will in the end assist the interpretation of cases in which DBS is used in
human patients.

Â© 2013 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.12132 
PMCID: PMC3969054
PMID: 24138151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1498. J Neurosci. 2013 Oct 16;33(42):16796-804. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3146-13.2013.

Large-scale brain networks in the awake, truly resting marmoset monkey.

Belcher AM(1), Yen CC, Stepp H, Gu H, Lu H, Yang Y, Silva AC, Stein EA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimaging Research Branch, National Institute on Drug Abuse, National
Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, and Cerebral Microcirculation
Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892.

Resting-state functional MRI is a powerful tool that is increasingly used as a
noninvasive method for investigating whole-brain circuitry and holds great
potential as a possible diagnostic for disease. Despite this potential, few
resting-state studies have used animal models (of which nonhuman primates
represent our best opportunity of understanding complex human neuropsychiatric
disease), and no work has characterized networks in awake, truly resting animals.
Here we present results from a small New World monkey that allows for the
characterization of resting-state networks in the awake state. Six adult common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were acclimated to light, comfortable restraint
using individualized helmets. Following behavioral training, resting BOLD data
were acquired during eight consecutive 10 min scans for each conscious subject.
Group independent component analysis revealed 12 brain networks that overlap
substantially with known anatomically constrained circuits seen in the awake
human. Specifically, we found eight sensory and "lower-order" networks (four
visual, two somatomotor, one cerebellar, and one caudate-putamen network), and
four "higher-order" association networks (one default mode-like network, one
orbitofrontal, one frontopolar, and one network resembling the human salience
network). In addition to their functional relevance, these network patterns bear 
great correspondence to those previously described in awake humans. This
first-of-its-kind report in an awake New World nonhuman primate provides a
platform for mechanistic neurobiological examination for existing disease models 
established in the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3146-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3797383
PMID: 24133280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

