

1500. Hepatology. 2014 Mar;59(3):789-802. doi: 10.1002/hep.26750. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

Infection of common marmosets with hepatitis C virus/GB virus-B chimeras.

Li T(1), Zhu S, Shuai L, Xu Y, Yin S, Bian Y, Wang Y, Zuo B, Wang W, Zhao S,
Zhang L, Zhang J, Gao GF, Allain JP, Li C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou,
P.R. China.

The development of vaccination and novel therapy for hepatitis C virus (HCV) has 
been hampered by the lack of suitable small-animal models. GB virus B (GBV-B),
closely related to HCV, causes viral hepatitis in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchue jacchus) and might represent an attractive surrogate model for HCV
infection. However, differences exist between GBV-B and HCV in spite of a short
genetic distance between the two viruses. Here we report common marmosets
infected with two HCV/GBV-B chimeras containing HCV structural genes coding for
either whole core and envelope proteins (CE1E2p7) or full envelope proteins
(E1E2p7) substituted for the counterpart elements of GBV-B. Naïve animals
intrahepatically injected with chimeric RNA transcripts or intravenously injected
with sera from primary infected animals produced high levels of circulating
infectious chimeric viruses and they developed chronic infection.
Tacrolimus-treated marmosets inoculated with a CE1E2p7 chimera had higher viral
loads and long-term persistent infection. A moderate elevation of serum aspartate
aminotransferase (AST) levels was observed in parallel with viral replication.
Chimeras recovered from liver samples revealed 1/958 adaptive viral mutations.
Histopathological changes typical of viral hepatitis were observed in liver
tissues from all types of HCV chimeras-infected marmosets. HCV core and E2
proteins were detected in liver tissues from infected animals by
immunohistochemical staining. Fluctuations of chimeric virus replication in
marmosets with spontaneous and sporadic viral clearance might be related to
specific antibody and T-cell response to HCV proteins in vivo. Replication of
CE1E2p7 chimera was observed in primary hepatocyte cultures by immunofluorescent 
staining in vitro.CONCLUSION: Infectious HCV chimeras causing chronic hepatitis
in marmosets might constitute a small primate model suitable for evaluation of
virus-cell interaction, vaccination, and antiviral therapy against HCV infection.

© 2014 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26750 
PMID: 24123143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1501. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2013;2013:5402-5. doi:
10.1109/EMBC.2013.6610770.

A new method of concurrently visualizing states, values, and actions in
reinforcement based brain machine interfaces.

Bae J, Sanchez Giraldo LG, Pohlmeyer EA, Sanchez JC, Principe JC.

This paper presents the first attempt to quantify the individual performance of
the subject and of the computer agent on a closed loop Reinforcement Learning
Brain Machine Interface (RLBMI). The distinctive feature of the RLBMI
architecture is the co-adaptation of two systems (a BMI decoder in agent and a
BMI user in environment). In this work, an agent implemented using Q-learning via
kernel temporal difference (KTD)(λ) decodes the neural states of a monkey and
transforms them into action directions of a robotic arm. We analyze how each
participant influences the overall performance both in successful and missed
trials by visualizing states, corresponding action value Q, and resulting actions
in two-dimensional space. With the proposed methodology, we can observe how the
decoder effectively learns a good state to action mapping, and how neural states 
affect the prediction performance.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2013.6610770 
PMID: 24110957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

