

1502. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2013;2013:5250-3. doi:
10.1109/EMBC.2013.6610733.

Feature extraction and unsupervised classification of neural population reward
signals for reinforcement based BMI.

Prins NW, Geng S, Pohlmeyer EA, Mahmoudi B, Sanchez JC.

New reinforcement based paradigms for building adaptive decoders for
Brain-Machine Interfaces involve using feedback directly from the brain. In this 
work, we investigated neuromodulation in the Nucleus Accumbens (reward center)
during a multi-target reaching task and investigated how to extract a reinforcing
or non-reinforcing signal that could be used to adapt a BMI decoder. One of the
challenges in brain-driven adaptation is how to translate biological
neuromodulation into a single binary signal from the distributed representation
of the neural population, which may encode many aspects of reward. To extract
these signals, feature analysis and clustering were used to identify timing and
coding properties of a user's neuromodulation related to reward perception.
First, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of reward related neural signals was
used to extract variance in the firing and the optimum time correlation between
the neural signal and the reward phase of the task. Next, k-means clustering was 
used to separate data into two classes.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2013.6610733 
PMID: 24110920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1503. Hum Mol Genet. 2014 Feb 1;23(3):668-81. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddt454. Epub 2013 Sep
18.

Widespread spinal cord transduction by intrathecal injection of rAAV delivers
efficacious RNAi therapy for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Wang H(1), Yang B, Qiu L, Yang C, Kramer J, Su Q, Guo Y, Brown RH Jr, Gao G, Xu
Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) causes motor neuron degeneration and
paralysis. No treatment can significantly slow or arrest the disease progression.
Mutations in the SOD1 gene cause a subset of familial ALS by a gain of toxicity. 
In principle, these cases could be treated with RNAi that destroys the mutant
mRNA, thereby abolishing the toxic protein. However, no system is available to
efficiently deliver the RNAi therapy. Recombinant adenoassociated virus (rAAV) is
a promising vehicle due to its long-lasting gene expression and low toxicity.
However, ALS afflicts broad areas of the central nervous system (CNS). A lack of 
practical means to spread rAAV broadly has hindered its application in treatment 
of ALS. To overcome this barrier, we injected several rAAV serotypes into the
cerebrospinal fluid. We found that some rAAV serotypes such as rAAVrh10 and rAAV9
transduced cells throughout the length of the spinal cord following a single
intrathecal injection and in the broad forebrain following a single injection
into the third ventricle. Furthermore, a single intrathecal injection of rAAVrh10
robustly transduced motor neurons throughout the spinal cord in a non-human
primate. These results suggested a therapeutic potential of this vector for ALS. 
To test this, we injected a rAAVrh10 vector that expressed an artificial miRNA
targeting SOD1 into the SOD1G93A mice. This treatment knocked down the mutant
SOD1 expression and slowed the disease progression. Our results demonstrate the
potential of rAAVs for delivering gene therapy to treat ALS and other diseases
that afflict broad areas of the CNS.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddt454 
PMCID: PMC3888258
PMID: 24108104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

