

1503. Hum Mol Genet. 2014 Feb 1;23(3):668-81. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddt454. Epub 2013 Sep
18.

Widespread spinal cord transduction by intrathecal injection of rAAV delivers
efficacious RNAi therapy for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Wang H(1), Yang B, Qiu L, Yang C, Kramer J, Su Q, Guo Y, Brown RH Jr, Gao G, Xu
Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) causes motor neuron degeneration and
paralysis. No treatment can significantly slow or arrest the disease progression.
Mutations in the SOD1 gene cause a subset of familial ALS by a gain of toxicity. 
In principle, these cases could be treated with RNAi that destroys the mutant
mRNA, thereby abolishing the toxic protein. However, no system is available to
efficiently deliver the RNAi therapy. Recombinant adenoassociated virus (rAAV) is
a promising vehicle due to its long-lasting gene expression and low toxicity.
However, ALS afflicts broad areas of the central nervous system (CNS). A lack of 
practical means to spread rAAV broadly has hindered its application in treatment 
of ALS. To overcome this barrier, we injected several rAAV serotypes into the
cerebrospinal fluid. We found that some rAAV serotypes such as rAAVrh10 and rAAV9
transduced cells throughout the length of the spinal cord following a single
intrathecal injection and in the broad forebrain following a single injection
into the third ventricle. Furthermore, a single intrathecal injection of rAAVrh10
robustly transduced motor neurons throughout the spinal cord in a non-human
primate. These results suggested a therapeutic potential of this vector for ALS. 
To test this, we injected a rAAVrh10 vector that expressed an artificial miRNA
targeting SOD1 into the SOD1G93A mice. This treatment knocked down the mutant
SOD1 expression and slowed the disease progression. Our results demonstrate the
potential of rAAVs for delivering gene therapy to treat ALS and other diseases
that afflict broad areas of the CNS.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddt454 
PMCID: PMC3888258
PMID: 24108104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1504. Exp Lung Res. 2013 Nov;39(9):410-4. doi: 10.3109/01902148.2013.838319. Epub 2013 
Oct 8.

Atypical cilia in the respiratory tract of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) 
with and without concurrent lung disease.

Hoffmann RM(1), Kaup FJ, Bleyer M.

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center , Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen ,
Germany.

Ciliated cells of the respiratory epithelium play an essential role in the
mechanisms of mucociliary clearance, and ultrastructural alterations of cilia are
known to be associated with respiratory disease. The aim of this study was to
evaluate the presence of ciliary changes in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
of different age groups and to compare healthy animals with animals suffering
from subclinical chronic inflammatory pulmonary lesions. Therefore, samples of
different sites of the tracheobronchial tree from 24 common marmosets were
investigated by transmission electron microscopy. Ciliary alterations were
present in all animals and were represented by compound cilia ("bulging/adhesive 
type"), extramatrix, extratubuli, and disorientation of the microtubular
arrangement. Ciliary alterations affected less than 1% of cilia (average
0.06%-0.55%) with no statistically significant differences between age groups,
sample localizations, or healthy and sick animals. The study results suggest that
ciliary alterations of secondary nature are a common background finding in common
marmosets with individual variability in abundance and have to be considered when
interpreting ultrastructural data from respiratory studies.

DOI: 10.3109/01902148.2013.838319 
PMID: 24102386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

