

1505. J Neural Eng. 2013 Dec;10(6):066005. doi: 10.1088/1741-2560/10/6/066005. Epub
2013 Oct 8.

Towards autonomous neuroprosthetic control using Hebbian reinforcement learning.

Mahmoudi B(1), Pohlmeyer EA, Prins NW, Geng S, Sanchez JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Our goal was to design an adaptive neuroprosthetic controller that
could learn the mapping from neural states to prosthetic actions and
automatically adjust adaptation using only a binary evaluative feedback as a
measure of desirability/undesirability of performance.
APPROACH: Hebbian reinforcement learning (HRL) in a connectionist network was
used for the design of the adaptive controller. The method combines the
efficiency of supervised learning with the generality of reinforcement learning. 
The convergence properties of this approach were studied using both closed-loop
control simulations and open-loop simulations that used primate neural data from 
robot-assisted reaching tasks.
MAIN RESULTS: The HRL controller was able to perform classification and
regression tasks using its episodic and sequential learning modes, respectively. 
In our experiments, the HRL controller quickly achieved convergence to an
effective control policy, followed by robust performance. The controller also
automatically stopped adapting the parameters after converging to a satisfactory 
control policy. Additionally, when the input neural vector was reorganized, the
controller resumed adaptation to maintain performance.
SIGNIFICANCE: By estimating an evaluative feedback directly from the user, the
HRL control algorithm may provide an efficient method for autonomous adaptation
of neuroprosthetic systems. This method may enable the user to teach the
controller the desired behavior using only a simple feedback signal.

DOI: 10.1088/1741-2560/10/6/066005 
PMID: 24100047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1506. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2013 Dec;38(12):3003-14. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2013.08.011. Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Quality of maternal and paternal care predicts later stress reactivity in the
cooperatively-breeding marmoset (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Birnie AK(1), Taylor JH, Cavanaugh J, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Neuroscience and Behavior Program, University of
Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182, United States; Callitrichid Research Center,
University of Nebraska Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182, United States. Electronic address:
abirnie@unomaha.edu.

Variation in the early postnatal social environment can have lasting effects on
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis stress responses. Both rats and macaque
monkeys subjected to low quality or abusive maternal care during the early
postnatal period have more pronounced HPA responses to environmental stressors
throughout development and into adulthood compared to animals reared in higher
quality early maternal environments. However, little is known about the relative 
contributions to HPA stress response styles in developing offspring in species in
which offspring care is routinely provided by group members other than the
mother, such as in cooperatively breeding mammals. Marmoset monkeys exhibit
cooperative offspring rearing, with fathers and older siblings providing care in 
addition to that provided by the mother. We evaluated the effects of early
maternal, paternal, and older sibling care on HPA responses to social separation 
across development in captive white-faced marmoset offspring (Callithrix
geoffroyi). We monitored offspring care by mothers, fathers, and older siblings
in marmosets for the first 60 days of life. Later in development, each marmoset
experienced three standardized social separation/novelty exposure stressors at 6,
12, and 18 months of age. During separation, we collected urine samples and
analyzed them via enzyme immunoassay for cortisol levels. Infants that received
higher rates of rejections from the entire family group showed higher cortisol
responses to social separation. This relationship was found when mothers,
fathers, and older siblings, were analyzed separately as well. No differences in 
cortisol responses were found between offspring that received high and low rates 
of carrying or high and low rates of licking and grooming by any group member. In
the cooperatively breeding marmoset, early social cues from multiple classes of
caregivers may influence HPA stress responses throughout the lifespan.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2013.08.011 
PMCID: PMC3877691
PMID: 24099861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

