

1507. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 30;8(9):e74789. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074789. eCollection
2013.

In vivo manipulation of γ9(+) T cells in the common marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus)
with phosphoantigen and effect on the progression of respiratory melioidosis.

Laws TR(1), Nelson M, Bonnafous C, Sicard H, Taylor C, Salguero FJ, Atkins TP,
Oyston PC, Rowland CA.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Dept, Defence Science and Technology laboratory (DSTL)
Porton Down, Salisbury, United Kingdom.

Burkholderia pseudomallei is a dangerous human pathogen. Phosphoantigens
specifically the target primate specific γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells subset and some have 
been developed as potential immunotherapeutics. Previously, we demonstrated that,
when stimulated with the phosphoantigen CHDMAPP, γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells aid in the
killing of intracellular B. pseudomallei bacteria. Moreover, we found that common
marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus) γ9(+) T cells increase in frequency and respond to 
the phosphoantigen CHDMAPP and/or B. pseudomallei, in combination with IL-2, in a
similar manner to human γ9(+)δ2(+) T cells. Here we evaluate the efficacy of the 
phosphoantigen CHDMAPP, in combination with IL-2, as a therapy against B.
pseudomallei infection, in vivo. We found that the previous studies predicted the
in vivo responsiveness of γ9(+) T cells to the CHDMAPP+IL-2 treatment and
significant expansion of the numbers of peripheral and splenic γ9(+) T cells were
observed. This effect was similar to those reported in other primate species
treated with phosphoantigen. Furthermore, splenocytes were retrieved 7 days post 
onset of treatment, restimulated with CHDMAPP or heat-killed B. pseudomallei and 
the cultured γ9(+) T cells demonstrated no reduction in IFN-γ response when
CHDMAPP+IL-2 animals were compared to IL-2 only treated animals. Using an
established model of B. pseudomallei infection in the marmoset, we assessed the
potential for using phosphoantigen as a novel immunotherapy. The CHDMAPP
treatment regime had no effect on the progression of respiratory melioidosis and 
this was despite the presence of elevated numbers of γ9(+) T cells in the spleen,
liver and lung and an increased proportion of IFN-γ(+) cells in response to
infection. We therefore report that the common marmoset has proven a good model
for studying the effect in vivo of γ9(+) T cell stimulation; however, γ9(+) T
cells have little or no effect on the progression of lethal, respiratory B.
pseudomallei infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074789 
PMCID: PMC3786980
PMID: 24098670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1508. Mol Biol Rep. 2013 Dec;40(12):6747-55. doi: 10.1007/s11033-013-2791-0. Epub 2013 
Sep 26.

Selection of suitable reference genes for mRNA quantification studies using
common marmoset tissues.

Shimamoto Y(1), Kitamura H, Niimi K, Yoshikawa Y, Hoshi F, Ishizuka M, Takahashi 
E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Teaching Hospital, School of Veterinary Medicine,
Kitasato University, Towada, Aomori, 034-8628, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is increasingly being used as a
non-human primate animal model in biomedical research. To perform accurate
quantitative analysis of gene expression by quantitative reverse transcription
polymerase chain reaction, reliable reference genes should be selected. In this
study, we evaluated the expressions of 11 widely used reference genes: ACTB,
ATP5F1, B2M, GAPDH, HPRT1, PGK1, PPIA, RN18S1, RPLP0, TBP and UBC in 12 tissues
and five brain areas of healthy common marmosets. NormFinder and geNorm indicated
that the most suitable reference genes for cross-sectional studies of the 17
tissues were RN18S1 and RPLP0. Conversely, ACTB and PPIA were the most suitable
for analyzing brain samples; however, the expression of PGK1 fluctuated among
brain areas. These results indicate that suitable reference genes differ between 
the tissues examined. This study provides fundamental information for gene
expression studies of the common marmoset and highlights the importance of
validating reference genes before quantification of target mRNAs.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-013-2791-0 
PMID: 24068436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

