

1509. J Comp Pathol. 2014 Jan;150(1):71-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2013.07.001. Epub 2013
Sep 21.

Thyroid follicular adenoma with accumulation of collagen type IV in a common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kawasako K(1), Doi T(2), Kanno T(2), Wako Y(2), Hamamura M(2), Tsuchitani M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Department, Nonclinical Research Center, Drug Development Service
Segment, Mitsubishi Chemical Medicine Corporation, 14-1 Sunayama, Kamisu, Ibaraki
314-0225, Japan. Electronic address: kawasako.kazufumi@mx.medience.co.jp.
(2)Pathology Department, Nonclinical Research Center, Drug Development Service
Segment, Mitsubishi Chemical Medicine Corporation, 14-1 Sunayama, Kamisu, Ibaraki
314-0225, Japan.

A thyroid tumour was identified in a 10-year-old male common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). The tumour was encapsulated by fibrous connective tissue and compressed
the adjacent normal thyroid. The tumour was composed of variably sized and
irregularly shaped thyroid follicles lined by a single layer of columnar
epithelial cells. Eosinophilic material at the base of the neoplastic cells
stained black with periodic acid-methenamine silver and red with periodic
acid-Schiff. Immunohistochemistry confirmed that this eosinophilic material was
collagen type IV. Ultrastructurally, highly dense and amorphous material was
observed at the base of the neoplastic cells. Small vesicles in the basolateral
cytoplasm of the neoplastic cells contained similar material to that at the base 
of the cells. The tumour was diagnosed as a thyroid follicular adenoma with
accumulation of collagen type IV. This is the first description of an endocrine
tumour with accumulation of collagen type IV in animals.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2013.07.001 
PMID: 24060155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1510. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 23;8(8):e72065. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072065. eCollection
2013.

Enhancer/promoter activities of the long/middle wavelength-sensitive opsins of
vertebrates mediated by thyroid hormone receptor β2 and COUP-TFII.

Iwagawa T(1), Tanaka Y, Iida A, Itoh T, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of Medical Science,
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Cone photopigments (opsins) are crucial elements of, and the first detection
module in, color vision. Individual opsins have different wavelength sensitivity 
patterns, and the temporal and spatial expression patterns of opsins are unique
and stringently regulated. Long and middle wavelength-sensitive (L/M) opsins are 
of the same phylogenetic type. Although the roles of thyroid hormone/TRß2 and
COUP-TFs in the transcriptional regulation of L/M opsins have been explored, the 
detailed mechanisms, including the target sequence in the enhancer of L/M opsins,
have not been revealed. We aimed to reveal molecular mechanisms of L/M opsins in 
vertebrates. Using several human red opsin enhancer/promoter-luciferase reporter 
constructs, we found that TRß2 increased luciferase activities through the 5'-UTR
and intron 3-4 region, whereas the presence of T3 affected only the intron 3-4
region-dependent luciferase activity. Furthermore, COUP-TFII suppressed intron
3-4 region-dependent luciferase activities. However, luciferase expression driven
by the mouse M opsin intron 3-4 region was only slightly increased by TRß2, and
rather enhanced by COUP-TFII. To determine whether these differential responses
reflect differences between primates and rodents, we examined the
enhancer/promoter region of the red opsin of the common marmoset. Interestingly, 
while TRß2 increased 5'-UTR- or intron 3-4 region-driven luciferase expression,
as observed for the human red opsin, expression of the latter luciferase was not 
suppressed by COUP-TFII. In fact, immunostaining of common marmoset retinal
sections revealed expression of COUP-TFII and red opsin in the cone cells.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072065 
PMCID: PMC3751927
PMID: 24058409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

