

151. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2021 May 4;118(18). pii: e2020125118. doi:
10.1073/pnas.2020125118.

Cellular-resolution gene expression profiling in the neonatal marmoset brain
reveals dynamic species- and region-specific differences.

Kita Y(1), Nishibe H(1), Wang Y(1), Hashikawa T(1), Kikuchi SS(1), U M(1),
Yoshida AC(1), Yoshida C(1), Kawase T(2), Ishii S(2), Skibbe H(3), Shimogori
T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Mechanisms of Brain Development, Center for Brain
Science, RIKEN, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Integrated Systems Biology Laboratory, Department of Systems Science, Graduate
School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.
(3)Brain Image Analysis Unit, Center for Brain Science, RIKEN, Saitama 351-0198, 
Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Molecular Mechanisms of Brain Development, Center for Brain
Science, RIKEN, Saitama 351-0198, Japan; tomomi.shimogori@riken.jp.

Precise spatiotemporal control of gene expression in the developing brain is
critical for neural circuit formation, and comprehensive expression mapping in
the developing primate brain is crucial to understand brain function in health
and disease. Here, we developed an unbiased, automated, large-scale,
cellular-resolution in situ hybridization (ISH)-based gene expression profiling
system (GePS) and companion analysis to reveal gene expression patterns in the
neonatal New World marmoset cortex, thalamus, and striatum that are distinct from
those in mice. Gene-ontology analysis of marmoset-specific genes revealed
associations with catalytic activity in the visual cortex and neuropsychiatric
disorders in the thalamus. Cortically expressed genes with clear area boundaries 
were used in a three-dimensional cortical surface mapping algorithm to delineate 
higher-order cortical areas not evident in two-dimensional ISH data. GePS
provides a powerful platform to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying
primate neurobiology and developmental psychiatric and neurological disorders.

Copyright Â© 2021 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2020125118 
PMCID: PMC8106353
PMID: 33903237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


152. How Might We Get from Genes to Circuits to Disease?.

Kaiser T, Mei Y, Feng G.
In: Nikolich K, Hyman SE, editors. Translational Neuroscience: Toward New
Therapies [Internet]. Cambridge (MA): MIT Press; 2015. Chapter 8.

Recent advances in the identification of risk genes for psychiatric disorders
have set the stage for functional interrogation of disease related-circuits and
underlying mechanisms of pathophysiology. Still, investigators face significant
challenges: (a) hundreds of genes may contribute to pathogenesis of a given
disorder (polygenicity and genetic heterogeneity), (b) risk alleles may only
cause the disease in combination with other factors (reduced penetrance), and (c)
commonly used rodent models may have significant limitations in studying
psychiatric disorders, due to differences in brain structure and function between
rodents and humans. To address these challenges, high-throughput functional
assays should be developed in combination with induced pluripotent stem cells
(iPSC) technology and novel genome-engineering technologies, as these will help
identify common pathways and mechanisms onto which multiple risk genes may
converge. To overcome limitations of current animal models in psychiatric
research, novel genome-editing technologies provide an opportunity to generate
better animal models (e.g., the common marmoset) to dissect disease-relevant
circuit dysfunction. Finally, powerful new tools (e.g., CLARITY, dense neural
circuit reconstruction, and optogenetics) may help identify and test the
relationship between distinct circuit defects and abnormal behaviors observed in 
these animal models. Such approaches are needed to span the gap between emerging 
genetic information and the symptomatic description of neuropsychiatric
disorders.

PMID: 33886215 

