

1510. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 23;8(8):e72065. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072065. eCollection
2013.

Enhancer/promoter activities of the long/middle wavelength-sensitive opsins of
vertebrates mediated by thyroid hormone receptor β2 and COUP-TFII.

Iwagawa T(1), Tanaka Y, Iida A, Itoh T, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of Medical Science,
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Cone photopigments (opsins) are crucial elements of, and the first detection
module in, color vision. Individual opsins have different wavelength sensitivity 
patterns, and the temporal and spatial expression patterns of opsins are unique
and stringently regulated. Long and middle wavelength-sensitive (L/M) opsins are 
of the same phylogenetic type. Although the roles of thyroid hormone/TRß2 and
COUP-TFs in the transcriptional regulation of L/M opsins have been explored, the 
detailed mechanisms, including the target sequence in the enhancer of L/M opsins,
have not been revealed. We aimed to reveal molecular mechanisms of L/M opsins in 
vertebrates. Using several human red opsin enhancer/promoter-luciferase reporter 
constructs, we found that TRß2 increased luciferase activities through the 5'-UTR
and intron 3-4 region, whereas the presence of T3 affected only the intron 3-4
region-dependent luciferase activity. Furthermore, COUP-TFII suppressed intron
3-4 region-dependent luciferase activities. However, luciferase expression driven
by the mouse M opsin intron 3-4 region was only slightly increased by TRß2, and
rather enhanced by COUP-TFII. To determine whether these differential responses
reflect differences between primates and rodents, we examined the
enhancer/promoter region of the red opsin of the common marmoset. Interestingly, 
while TRß2 increased 5'-UTR- or intron 3-4 region-driven luciferase expression,
as observed for the human red opsin, expression of the latter luciferase was not 
suppressed by COUP-TFII. In fact, immunostaining of common marmoset retinal
sections revealed expression of COUP-TFII and red opsin in the cone cells.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072065 
PMCID: PMC3751927
PMID: 24058409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1511. Biogerontology. 2013 Oct;14(5):557-67. doi: 10.1007/s10522-013-9464-1. Epub 2013 
Sep 22.

Hair trace elementary profiles in aging rodents and primates: links to altered
cell homeodynamics and disease.

Ambeskovic M(1), Fuchs E, Beaumier P, Gerken M, Metz GA.

Author information: 
(1)Canadian Centre for Behavioural Neuroscience, University of Lethbridge, 4401
University Drive, Lethbridge, AB, T1K 3M4, Canada, mirela.ambeskovic@uleth.ca.

Aging is associated with an increased incidence of pathological conditions such
as neurodegeneration, cardiovascular and renal disease, and cancer. These
conditions are believed to be linked to a disruption in cell homeodynamics, which
is regulated by essential trace elements. In this study we used hair elementary
analysis by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) to examine
age-related profiles of 47 elements in both rats and common marmoset monkeys.
Hair was collected from young adult (6 months) and aged (18 months) Long-Evans
male rats, and young adult (2 years), middle-aged (4 years) and aged (>8 years)
marmosets. The results revealed that aging reduces content levels of cobalt,
potassium and selenium while content levels of aluminium, arsenic, boron,
mercury, molybdenum, and titanium were elevated in aged rats. Similarly, aged
marmosets showed reduced levels of cobalt and elevated levels of aluminium. Case 
studies in aged rats revealed that myocardial infarction was associated with
elevated levels of sodium, potassium and cadmium and reduced zinc, while renal
failure was linked to elevated content of potassium, chloride and boron and
reduced contents of manganese. Carcinoma was linked to elevated arsenic and
reduced selenium levels. These findings indicate that hair elementary profiles in
healthy aging and age-related diseases reflect altered cell and organ metabolic
functions. Cobalt and aluminium in particular may serve as biomarkers of aging in
animal models. Thus, elementary deposition in hair may have predictive and
diagnostic value in age-related pathological conditions, including cardiovascular
and kidney disease and cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-013-9464-1 
PMID: 24057279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

