

1511. Biogerontology. 2013 Oct;14(5):557-67. doi: 10.1007/s10522-013-9464-1. Epub 2013 
Sep 22.

Hair trace elementary profiles in aging rodents and primates: links to altered
cell homeodynamics and disease.

Ambeskovic M(1), Fuchs E, Beaumier P, Gerken M, Metz GA.

Author information: 
(1)Canadian Centre for Behavioural Neuroscience, University of Lethbridge, 4401
University Drive, Lethbridge, AB, T1K 3M4, Canada, mirela.ambeskovic@uleth.ca.

Aging is associated with an increased incidence of pathological conditions such
as neurodegeneration, cardiovascular and renal disease, and cancer. These
conditions are believed to be linked to a disruption in cell homeodynamics, which
is regulated by essential trace elements. In this study we used hair elementary
analysis by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) to examine
age-related profiles of 47 elements in both rats and common marmoset monkeys.
Hair was collected from young adult (6 months) and aged (18 months) Long-Evans
male rats, and young adult (2 years), middle-aged (4 years) and aged (>8 years)
marmosets. The results revealed that aging reduces content levels of cobalt,
potassium and selenium while content levels of aluminium, arsenic, boron,
mercury, molybdenum, and titanium were elevated in aged rats. Similarly, aged
marmosets showed reduced levels of cobalt and elevated levels of aluminium. Case 
studies in aged rats revealed that myocardial infarction was associated with
elevated levels of sodium, potassium and cadmium and reduced zinc, while renal
failure was linked to elevated content of potassium, chloride and boron and
reduced contents of manganese. Carcinoma was linked to elevated arsenic and
reduced selenium levels. These findings indicate that hair elementary profiles in
healthy aging and age-related diseases reflect altered cell and organ metabolic
functions. Cobalt and aluminium in particular may serve as biomarkers of aging in
animal models. Thus, elementary deposition in hair may have predictive and
diagnostic value in age-related pathological conditions, including cardiovascular
and kidney disease and cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-013-9464-1 
PMID: 24057279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1512. J Neurosci. 2013 Sep 18;33(38):15120-5. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2909-13.2013.

A conserved pattern of differential expansion of cortical areas in simian
primates.

Chaplin TA(1), Yu HH, Soares JG, Gattass R, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, 
Victoria, 3800, Australia, and Programa de Neurobiologia, Universidade Federal do
Rio de Janeiro, Instituto de Biofísica Carlos Chagas Filho, Rio de Janeiro, Rio
de Janeiro 21941-900, Brazil.

The layout of areas in the cerebral cortex of different primates is quite
similar, despite significant variations in brain size. However, it is clear that 
larger brains are not simply scaled up versions of smaller brains: some regions
of the cortex are disproportionately large in larger species. It is currently
debated whether these expanded areas arise through natural selection pressures
for increased cognitive capacity or as a result of the application of a common
developmental sequence on different scales. Here, we used computational methods
to map and quantify the expansion of the cortex in simian primates of different
sizes to investigate whether there is any common pattern of cortical expansion.
Surface models of the marmoset, capuchin, and macaque monkey cortex were
registered using the software package CARET and the spherical landmark vector
difference algorithm. The registration was constrained by the location of
identified homologous cortical areas. When comparing marmosets with both
capuchins and macaques, we found a high degree of expansion in the temporal
parietal junction, the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, and the dorsal anterior
cingulate cortex, all of which are high-level association areas typically
involved in complex cognitive and behavioral functions. These expanded maps
correlated well with previously published macaque to human registrations,
suggesting that there is a general pattern of primate cortical scaling.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2909-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC6618405
PMID: 24048842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

