

1513. J Physiol. 2014 Jan 1;592(1):49-65. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.257352. Epub 2013 
Sep 16.

Inner retinal inhibition shapes the receptive field of retinal ganglion cells in 
primate.

Protti DA(1), Di Marco S, Huang JY, Vonhoff CR, Nguyen V, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)D. A. Protti: Anderson Stuart Bldg (F13), The University of Sydney, NSW 2006, 
Australia. dario.protti@sydney.edu.au.

The centre-surround organisation of receptive fields is a feature of most retinal
ganglion cells (RGCs) and is critical for spatial discrimination and contrast
detection. Although lateral inhibitory processes are known to be important in
generating the receptive field surround, the contribution of each of the two
synaptic layers in the primate retina remains unclear. Here we studied the
spatial organisation of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs onto ON and OFF
ganglion cells in the primate retina. All RGCs showed an increase in excitation
in response to stimulus of preferred polarity. Inhibition onto RGCs comprised two
types of responses to preferred polarity: some RGCs showed an increase in
inhibition whilst others showed removal of tonic inhibition. Excitatory inputs
were strongly spatially tuned but inhibitory inputs showed more variable
organisation: in some neurons they were as strongly tuned as excitation, and in
others inhibitory inputs showed no spatial tuning. We targeted one source of
inner retinal inhibition by functionally ablating spiking amacrine cells with
bath application of tetrodotoxin (TTX). TTX significantly reduced the spatial
tuning of excitatory inputs. In addition, TTX reduced inhibition onto those RGCs 
where a stimulus of preferred polarity increased inhibition. Reconstruction of
the spatial tuning properties by somatic injection of excitatory and inhibitory
synaptic conductances verified that TTX-mediated inhibition onto bipolar cells
increases the strength of the surround in RGC spiking output. These results
indicate that in the primate retina inhibitory mechanisms in the inner plexiform 
layer sharpen the spatial tuning of ganglion cells.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.257352 
PMCID: PMC3903351
PMID: 24042496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1514. Redox Biol. 2013 Jul 18;1:387-93. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2013.06.003. eCollection
2013.

Characterization of plasma thiol redox potential in a common marmoset model of
aging.

Roede JR(1), Uppal K, Liang Y, Promislow DE, Wachtman LM, Jones DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care
Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Due to its short lifespan, ease of use and age-related pathologies that mirror
those observed in humans, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is poised to
become a standard nonhuman primate model of aging. Blood and extracellular fluid 
possess two major thiol-dependent redox nodes involving cysteine (Cys), cystine
(CySS), glutathione (GSH) and glutathione disulfide (GSSG). Alteration in these
plasma redox nodes significantly affects cellular physiology, and oxidation of
the plasma Cys/CySS redox potential (E hCySS) is associated with aging and
disease risk in humans. The purpose of this study was to determine age-related
changes in plasma redox metabolites and corresponding redox potentials (E h) to
further validate the marmoset as a nonhuman primate model of aging. We measured
plasma thiol redox states in marmosets and used existing human data with
multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS) to model the relationships
between age and redox metabolites. A classification accuracy of 70.2% and an AUC 
of 0.703 were achieved using the MARS model built from the marmoset redox data to
classify the human samples as young or old. These results show that common
marmosets provide a useful model for thiol redox biology of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2013.06.003 
PMCID: PMC3757708
PMID: 24024176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

