

1514. Redox Biol. 2013 Jul 18;1:387-93. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2013.06.003. eCollection
2013.

Characterization of plasma thiol redox potential in a common marmoset model of
aging.

Roede JR(1), Uppal K, Liang Y, Promislow DE, Wachtman LM, Jones DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care
Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Due to its short lifespan, ease of use and age-related pathologies that mirror
those observed in humans, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is poised to
become a standard nonhuman primate model of aging. Blood and extracellular fluid 
possess two major thiol-dependent redox nodes involving cysteine (Cys), cystine
(CySS), glutathione (GSH) and glutathione disulfide (GSSG). Alteration in these
plasma redox nodes significantly affects cellular physiology, and oxidation of
the plasma Cys/CySS redox potential (E hCySS) is associated with aging and
disease risk in humans. The purpose of this study was to determine age-related
changes in plasma redox metabolites and corresponding redox potentials (E h) to
further validate the marmoset as a nonhuman primate model of aging. We measured
plasma thiol redox states in marmosets and used existing human data with
multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS) to model the relationships
between age and redox metabolites. A classification accuracy of 70.2% and an AUC 
of 0.703 were achieved using the MARS model built from the marmoset redox data to
classify the human samples as young or old. These results show that common
marmosets provide a useful model for thiol redox biology of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2013.06.003 
PMCID: PMC3757708
PMID: 24024176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1515. Sci Rep. 2013;3:2630. doi: 10.1038/srep02630.

A cross-species socio-emotional behaviour development revealed by a multivariate 
analysis.

Koshiba M(1), Senoo A, Mimura K, Shirakawa Y, Karino G, Obara S, Ozawa S,
Sekihara H, Fukushima Y, Ueda T, Kishino H, Tanaka T, Ishibashi H, Yamanouchi H, 
Yui K, Nakamura S.

Author information: 
(1)1] Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, Japan [2] National
Institute of Neuroscience, NCNP, Tokyo, Japan [3] Saitama Medical University,
Saitama, Japan.

Recent progress in affective neuroscience and social neurobiology has been
propelled by neuro-imaging technology and epigenetic approach in neurobiology of 
animal behaviour. However, quantitative measurements of socio-emotional
development remains lacking, though sensory-motor development has been
extensively studied in terms of digitised imaging analysis. Here, we developed a 
method for socio-emotional behaviour measurement that is based on the video
recordings under well-defined social context using animal models with variously
social sensory interaction during development. The behaviour features digitized
from the video recordings were visualised in a multivariate statistic space using
principal component analysis. The clustering of the behaviour parameters
suggested the existence of species- and stage-specific as well as cross-species
behaviour modules. These modules were used to characterise the behaviour of
children with or without autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). We found that
socio-emotional behaviour is highly dependent on social context and the
cross-species behaviour modules may predict neurobiological basis of ASDs.

DOI: 10.1038/srep02630 
PMCID: PMC6505395
PMID: 24022241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

