

1517. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Nov 1;256:554-63. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.09.001. Epub 2013
Sep 7.

Individual differences in choice (in)flexibility but not impulsivity in the
common marmoset: an automated, operant-behavior choice task.

Adriani W(1), Romani C, Manciocco A, Vitale A, Laviola G.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Behavioral Neuroscience, Dept. of Cell Biology & Neurosciences,
Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy. Electronic address:
walter.adriani@iss.it.

Individual differences in behavioural flexibility are a significant issue in
human psychopathology as well as in its animal models. We aimed to investigate
individual variations of operant-choice behaviour in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate, using a new operant panel with
two hand-poking holes.METHODS: Experimental subjects (N=16) were presented with a
choice between a Small & Soon (SS) vs a Large & Late (LL) food reward. After
extensive training (31 daily sessions with no delay, during which a basal,
large-reward preference developed), the delay before release of LL was
progressively increased (from 0 to 60 s, during 16 daily sessions; indifferent
point at delay=9 s). Subjects were classified as either "flexible" or
"non-flexible", respectively, based on a decrease (or not) in the preference for 
LL with increasing delays. Each subject was also classified as "maximizer" (or
"non-maximizer") based on capacity (or not) to maximize the food payoff as delay 
increased.
RESULTS: Upon delays shorter than the indifferent point (<9s), none of the
subjects showed a shift from LL to SS, denoting a lack of delay-induced,
cognitive impulsivity. Individual differences only emerged upon delays longer
than the indifferent point (>9 s), when a preference shift could be interpreted
as economically-driven. In general, a profile of few unrewarded hand-pokes in
reaction to initial delays (i.e., a low motor impulsivity) and of clear-cut basal
LL preference seemed to predict elevated flexibility of choices and better food
payoff, which was typical of subjects classified as both "flexible & maximizer".
CONCLUSION: These results provide normative data on the marmosets, which can be
used as a model for the investigation of 1) individual differences in behavioural
flexibility, as well as 2) biological mechanisms rooted in our evolutionary
history.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.09.001 
PMID: 24016838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1518. Vet Microbiol. 2013 Dec 27;167(3-4):695-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2013.08.008.
Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Novel mastadenovirus infection and clinical disease in a pygmy marmoset
(Callithrix [Cebuella] pygmaea).

Gál J(1), Hornyák Á, Mándoki M, Bakonyi T, Balka G, Szeredi L, Marosán M, Ludányi
T, Forgách P, Sós E, Demeter Z, Farkas SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Forensic Veterinary Medicine, Division of Exotic
and Wild Animal Medicine, Szent István University, Faculty of Veterinary Science,
István u. 2, H-1078 Budapest, Hungary.

We describe the detection and successful isolation of a novel mastadenovirus from
a pygmy marmoset (Callithrix [Cebuella] pygmaea) that died following an episode
of severe respiratory signs. Pathologic/histopathologic examination revealed
hydrothorax and catarrhal bronchopneumonia with pronounced desquamation of the
bronchiolar epithelial cells, while in other airways a marked hyperplasia of the 
epithelial lining and numerous giant cells could be observed. We obtained partial
sequence data from the adenoviral DNA-dependent DNA-polymerase gene of the
isolated strain and analyses of this region showed the highest level of identity 
to the recently described bat adenoviruses (strains PPV1 and TJM) and the type 2 
canine adenovirus. Similar results were gained by phylogenetic calculations
indicating that this novel marmoset adenovirus is only distantly related to
reference Old and New World primate adenoviruses and formed a monophyletic group 
with bat and canine adenoviruses and the equine adenovirus 1. Even though the
source of the infection remained unknown, our results could imply the possibility
of a cross-species transmission of the virus from an anonymous host to the pygmy 
marmoset.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2013.08.008 
PMID: 24012169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

