

1521. Immunol Lett. 2013 Jul-Aug;154(1-2):12-7. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.08.005. Epub 
2013 Aug 19.

Efficient in vivo depletion of CD8(+) T lymphocytes in common marmosets by novel 
CD8 monoclonal antibody administration.

Yoshida T(1), Suzuki S, Iwasaki Y, Kaneko A, Saito A, Enomoto Y, Higashino A,
Watanabe A, Suzuki J, Inoue K, Kuroda T, Takada M, Ito R, Ito M, Akari H.

Author information: 
(1)Tsukuba Primate Research Center, National Institute of Biomedical Innovation, 
Hachimandai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0843, Japan; Primate Research Institute, Kyoto 
University, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
yoshida.tomoyuki.4w@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

In order to directly demonstrate the roles of CD8(+) T lymphocytes in non-human
primates, in vivo depletion of the CD8(+) T cells by administration of a
CD8-specific monoclonal antibody (mAb) is one of the crucial techniques.
Recently, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), which is classified as a New 
World monkey, has been shown useful as an experimental animal model for various
human diseases such as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and a number of
infectious diseases. Here we show that an anti-marmoset CD8 mAb 6F10, which we
have recently established, efficiently depletes the marmoset CD8(+) T lymphocytes
in vivo, i.e., the administration of 6F10 induces drastic and specific reduction 
in the ratio of the CD8(+) T cell subset for at least three weeks or longer. Our 
finding will help understand the pivotal role of CD8(+) T cells in vivo in the
control of human diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.08.005 
PMID: 23969290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1522. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2014 Feb;121(2):163-9.

Cholinergic manipulation of motor disability and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets.

Jackson MJ, Swart T, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Anti-cholinergic drugs are used in the treatment of Parkinson’s disease (PD) and 
they can improve motor disability in some patients and may alter the expression
of dyskinesia. We report the effects of anticholinergic and pro-cholinergic
agents administered alone and combined with L-DOPA, on motor function in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-l,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets.
Administration of atropine to MPTP-treated marmosets, not previously exposed to
L-DOPA, improved motor disability but this did not occur with other centrally
acting anti-cholinergics. Motor disability was worsened by centrally acting
pro-cholinergics. However, neither peripherally acting anti- nor pro-cholinergics
produced any effect on motor disability or dyskinesia. In MPTP-treated marmosets 
previously primed with L-DOPA to exhibit dyskinesia, acute L-DOPA challenge
induced both chorea and dystonia. In these animals, centrally acting
anti-cholinergics including atropine and trihexyphenidyl reversed motor deficits,
but induced chorea. Combined with L-DOPA, both centrally and peripherally acting 
anti-cholinergics reduced peak locomotor activity and produced more chorea than
dystonia compared to L-DOPA alone. Centrally acting pro-cholinergics decreased
locomotor activity, worsened motor disability and induced dystonia.
Co-administered with L-DOPA, pro-cholinergics reduced locomotor activity and
decreased chorea while increasing dystonia compared with L-DOPA alone. In
conclusion, anti-cholinergics can increase chorea with and without L-DOPA but
improve motor disability. Pro-cholinergics decrease the proportion of chorea when
combined with L-DOPA, increase motor disability and antagonise L-DOPA’s
effectiveness. These data suggest that there may be a case for revisiting the use
of anti-cholinergic drugs in the treatment of PD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-013-1082-1 
PMID: 23959162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

