

1526. J Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Jun;26(2):187-91. doi: 10.1293/tox.26.187. Epub 2013 Jul
10.

Spontaneous Rhabdomyosarcoma in a Common Marmoset ( Callithrix jacchus ).

Tochitani T(1), Matsumoto I, Hoshino K, Toyosawa K, Kouchi M, Koujitani T, Kimura
J, Funabashi H.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-0022, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is now widely used in various research
fields, including toxicology. However, information about the background pathology
of this species is scarce. Here, we report a case of rhabdomyosarcoma that
spontaneously occurred in a common marmoset. A 44-month-old male common marmoset 
was euthanized due to bilateral hind limb paralysis. At necropsy, a 2×2×5-cm
intramuscular mass was observed in the lower right back. Histologically, the mass
was mainly composed of interlacing bundles of spindle-shaped tumor cells.
Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were positive for myogenin, desmin,
vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin. Ultrastructurally, the tumor cells
contained bundles of myofilaments with Z-band-like structures. Thus, the tumor
was diagnosed as a rhabdomyosarcoma. To our knowledge, this is the first report
of spontaneous rhabdomyosarcoma that was definitely diagnosed in the common
marmoset.

DOI: 10.1293/tox.26.187 
PMCID: PMC3695340
PMID: 23914060 


1527. Exp Anim. 2013;62(3):159-71.

Overview of models, methods, and reagents developed for translational
autoimmunity research in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jagessar SA(1), Vierboom M, Blezer EL, Bauer J, Hart BA, Kap YS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, P.O. Box
3306, 2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. jagessar@bprc.nl

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small-bodied Neotropical primate
and a useful preclinical animal model for translational research into
autoimmune-mediated inflammatory diseases (AIMID), such as rheumatoid arthritis
(RA) and multiple sclerosis (MS). The animal model for MS established in
marmosets has proven their value for exploratory research into (etio) pathogenic 
mechanisms and for the evaluation of new therapies that cannot be tested in lower
species because of their specificity for humans. Effective usage of the marmoset 
in preclinical immunological research has been hampered by the limited
availability of blood for immunological studies and of reagents for profiling of 
cellular and humoral immune reactions. In this paper, we give a concise overview 
of the procedures and reagents that were developed over the years in our
laboratory in marmoset models of the above-mentioned diseases.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.62.159 
PMCID: PMC4160941
PMID: 23903050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

