

1527. Exp Anim. 2013;62(3):159-71.

Overview of models, methods, and reagents developed for translational
autoimmunity research in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jagessar SA(1), Vierboom M, Blezer EL, Bauer J, Hart BA, Kap YS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, P.O. Box
3306, 2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. jagessar@bprc.nl

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small-bodied Neotropical primate
and a useful preclinical animal model for translational research into
autoimmune-mediated inflammatory diseases (AIMID), such as rheumatoid arthritis
(RA) and multiple sclerosis (MS). The animal model for MS established in
marmosets has proven their value for exploratory research into (etio) pathogenic 
mechanisms and for the evaluation of new therapies that cannot be tested in lower
species because of their specificity for humans. Effective usage of the marmoset 
in preclinical immunological research has been hampered by the limited
availability of blood for immunological studies and of reagents for profiling of 
cellular and humoral immune reactions. In this paper, we give a concise overview 
of the procedures and reagents that were developed over the years in our
laboratory in marmoset models of the above-mentioned diseases.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.62.159 
PMCID: PMC4160941
PMID: 23903050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1528. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 24;8(7):e68558. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068558. Print 2013.

Experimental cross-species infection of common marmosets by titi monkey
adenovirus.

Yu G(1), Yagi S, Carrion R Jr, Chen EC, Liu M, Brasky KM, Lanford RE, Kelly KR,
Bales KL, Schnurr DP, Canfield DR, Patterson JL, Chiu CY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California, United States of America.

Adenoviruses are DNA viruses that infect a number of vertebrate hosts and are
associated with both sporadic and epidemic disease in humans. We previously
identified a novel adenovirus, titi monkey adenovirus (TMAdV), as the cause of a 
fulminant pneumonia outbreak in a colony of titi monkeys (Callicebus cupreus) at 
a national primate center in 2009. Serological evidence of infection by TMAdV was
also found in a human researcher at the facility and household family member,
raising concerns for potential cross-species transmission of the virus. Here we
present experimental evidence of cross-species TMAdV infection in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Nasal inoculation of a cell cultured-adapted
TMAdV strain into three marmosets produced an acute, mild respiratory illness
characterized by low-grade fever, reduced activity, anorexia, and sneezing. An
increase in virus-specific neutralization antibody titers accompanied the
development of clinical signs. Although serially collected nasal swabs were
positive for TMAdV for at least 8 days, all 3 infected marmosets spontaneously
recovered by day 12 post-inoculation, and persistence of the virus in tissues
could not be established. Thus, the pathogenesis of experimental inoculation of
TMAdV in common marmosets resembled the mild, self-limiting respiratory infection
typically seen in immunocompetent human hosts rather than the rapidly
progressive, fatal pneumonia observed in 19 of 23 titi monkeys during the prior
2009 outbreak. These findings further establish the potential for adenovirus
cross-species transmission and provide the basis for development of a monkey
model useful for assessing the zoonotic potential of adenoviruses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068558 
PMCID: PMC3722195
PMID: 23894316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

