

1528. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 24;8(7):e68558. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068558. Print 2013.

Experimental cross-species infection of common marmosets by titi monkey
adenovirus.

Yu G(1), Yagi S, Carrion R Jr, Chen EC, Liu M, Brasky KM, Lanford RE, Kelly KR,
Bales KL, Schnurr DP, Canfield DR, Patterson JL, Chiu CY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, California, United States of America.

Adenoviruses are DNA viruses that infect a number of vertebrate hosts and are
associated with both sporadic and epidemic disease in humans. We previously
identified a novel adenovirus, titi monkey adenovirus (TMAdV), as the cause of a 
fulminant pneumonia outbreak in a colony of titi monkeys (Callicebus cupreus) at 
a national primate center in 2009. Serological evidence of infection by TMAdV was
also found in a human researcher at the facility and household family member,
raising concerns for potential cross-species transmission of the virus. Here we
present experimental evidence of cross-species TMAdV infection in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Nasal inoculation of a cell cultured-adapted
TMAdV strain into three marmosets produced an acute, mild respiratory illness
characterized by low-grade fever, reduced activity, anorexia, and sneezing. An
increase in virus-specific neutralization antibody titers accompanied the
development of clinical signs. Although serially collected nasal swabs were
positive for TMAdV for at least 8 days, all 3 infected marmosets spontaneously
recovered by day 12 post-inoculation, and persistence of the virus in tissues
could not be established. Thus, the pathogenesis of experimental inoculation of
TMAdV in common marmosets resembled the mild, self-limiting respiratory infection
typically seen in immunocompetent human hosts rather than the rapidly
progressive, fatal pneumonia observed in 19 of 23 titi monkeys during the prior
2009 outbreak. These findings further establish the potential for adenovirus
cross-species transmission and provide the basis for development of a monkey
model useful for assessing the zoonotic potential of adenoviruses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068558 
PMCID: PMC3722195
PMID: 23894316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1529. J Neurosci. 2013 Jul 24;33(30):12479-89. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0844-13.2013.

Visually evoked responses in extrastriate area MT after lesions of striate cortex
in early life.

Yu HH(1), Chaplin TA, Egan GW, Reser DH, Worthy KH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.

Lesions of striate cortex [primary visual cortex (V1)] in adult primates result
in blindness. In contrast, V1 lesions in neonates typically allow much greater
preservation of vision, including, in many human patients, conscious perception. 
It is presently unknown how this marked functional difference is related to
physiological changes in cortical areas that are spared by the lesions. Here we
report a study of the middle temporal area (MT) of adult marmoset monkeys that
received unilateral V1 lesions within 6 weeks of birth. In contrast with
observations after similar lesions in adult monkeys, we found that virtually all 
neurons in the region of MT that was deprived of V1 inputs showed robust
responses to visual stimulation. These responses were very similar to those
recorded in neurons with receptive fields outside the lesion projection zones in 
terms of firing rate, signal-to-noise ratio, and latency. In addition, the normal
retinotopic organization of MT was maintained. Nonetheless, we found evidence of 
a very specific functional deficit: direction selectivity, a key physiological
characteristic of MT that is known to be preserved in many cells after adult V1
lesions, was absent. These results demonstrate that lesion-induced reorganization
of afferent pathways is sufficient to develop robust visual function in primate
extrastriate cortex, highlighting a likely mechanism for the sparing of vision
after neonatal V1 lesions. However, they also suggest that interactions with V1
in early postnatal life are critical for establishing stimulus selectivity in MT.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0844-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC6618667
PMID: 23884952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

