

1531. J Med Primatol. 2013 Dec;42(6):287-92. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12059. Epub 2013 Jul 23.

Conjunctival flora, Schirmer's tear test, intraocular pressure, and conjunctival 
cytology in neotropical primates from Salvador, Brazil.

Oriá AP(1), Pinna MH, Almeida DS, da Silva RM, Pinheiro AC, Santana FO, Costa TR,
Meneses ÍD, Martins Filho EF, Oliveira AV.

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine and Zootechny, Federal University of Bahia UFBA,
Salvador, BA, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to establish reference values for selected
ophthalmic diagnostic tests in healthy neotropical primates from Salvador,
Brazil.
METHODS: A total of 73 intact adults, including Callithrix jacchus (n = 31),
Callithrix penicillata (n = 8), Cebus sp. (n = 22), and Cebus xanthosternos (n = 
9) were used to evaluate the normal conjunctival bacterial flora. Cebus
xanthosternos (n = 12) were used to evaluate tear production with Schirmer's tear
test (STT), intraocular pressure (IOP), and conjunctival cytology.
RESULTS: For all animals evaluated, Gram-positive bacteria were predominant.
Results of the diagnostic tests in Cebus xanthosternos were as follows: STT:
14.92 ± 5.46 mm/minutes, IOP: 19.62 ± 4.57 mmHg, and conjunctival cytology
revealed intermediate squamous epithelial cells in great quantities.
CONCLUSIONS: These ophthalmic reference values will be particularly useful to
diagnose discrete or unusual pathological changes in the neotropical primates
eye.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12059 
PMID: 23879249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1532. Clin Sci (Lond). 2014 Jan;126(2):155-62. doi: 10.1042/CS20130101.

Airway hyper-responsiveness in lipopolysaccharide-challenged common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Curths C(1), Wichmann J, Dunker S, Windt H, Hoymann HG, Lauenstein HD, Hohlfeld
J, Becker T, Kaup FJ, Braun A, Knauf S.

Author information: 
(1)‡Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute, Kellnerweg 4, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.

Animal models with a high predictive value for human trials are needed to develop
novel human-specific therapeutics for respiratory diseases. The aim of the
present study was to examine lung-function parameters in marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) that can be used to detect pharmacologically or
provocation-induced AHR (airway hyper-responsiveness). Therefore a custom-made
lung-function device that allows application of defined aerosol doses during
measurement was developed. It was hypothesized that LPS
(lipopolysaccharide)-challenged marmosets show AHR compared with non-challenged
healthy subjects. Invasive plethysmography was performed in 12 anaesthetized
orotracheally intubated and spontaneously breathing marmosets. Pulmonary data of 
R(L) (lung resistance), C(dyn) (dynamic compliance), EF50 (mid-expiratory flow), 
P(oes) (oesophageal pressure), MV (minute volume), respiratory frequency (f) and 
V(T) (tidal volume) were collected. Measurements were conducted under baseline
conditions and under MCh (methacholine)-induced bronchoconstriction. The
measurement was repeated with the same group of animals after induction of an
acute lung inflammation by intratracheal application of LPS. PDs (provocative
doses) of MCh to achieve a certain increase in RL were significantly lower after 
LPS administration. AHR was demonstrated in the LPS treated compared with the
naïve animals. The recorded lung-function data provide ground for pre-clinical
efficacy and safety testing of anti-inflammatory substances in the common
marmoset, a new translational NHP (non-human primate) model for LPS-induced lung 
inflammation.

DOI: 10.1042/CS20130101 
PMCID: PMC3793853
PMID: 23879175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

