

1533. Lin Chung Er Bi Yan Hou Tou Jing Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Apr;27(8):429-31.

[Experimental model of facial paralysis by nerve compression in primates
(Callithrix sp.): A new model of facial paralysis in small nonhuman primates].

[Article in Chinese]

Neiva FC(1), Borin A, Cinini S, Mello LE, Cruz OL, Testa JR.

Author information: 
(1)Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery Department, Federal University
of São Paulo/UNIFESP, São Paulo, Brazil.


PMID: 23858728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1534. J Comp Neurol. 2014 Feb 1;522(2):435-55. doi: 10.1002/cne.23420.

Characterization of secretagogin-immunoreactive amacrine cells in marmoset
retina.

Weltzien F(1), Dimarco S, Protti DA, Daraio T, Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney,
Australia; Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence in Vision Science,
University of Sydney, Australia.

The retina contains at least 30 different types of amacrine cells but not many
are well characterized. In the present study the calcium-binding protein
secretagogin was localized in a population of regular and displaced amacrine
cells in the retina of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Irrespective of
their soma location, the dendrites of secretagogin amacrine cells occupy strata
2, 3, and 4 of the inner plexiform layer, between the two bands formed by
cholinergic amacrine cells. Segretagogin amacrine cells are also immunopositive
to antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase, suggesting that they use
γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as their neurotransmitter. The spatial density of
secretagogin amacrine cells decreases from a peak of about 400 cells/mm(2) near 1
mm eccentricity to less than 100 cells/mm(2) in peripheral retina; these
densities account for about 1% of amacrine cells in the inner nuclear layer and
for up to 27% of displaced amacrine cells. The cell bodies form a regular mosaic,
suggesting that they constitute a single amacrine cell population. Secretagogin
cells have varicose dendrites, which are decorated with small spines.
Intracellular injection of DiI into secretagogin cells revealed an average
dendritic field diameter of 170 μm and an average coverage factor of 3.2. In
summary, secretagogin cells in marmoset retina are medium-field amacrine cells
that share their stratification pattern with narrow-field amacrine cells and
their neurotransmitter with wide-field amacrine cells. They may mediate spatial
inhibition spanning the centralmost (on and off) bands of the inner plexiform
layer.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23420 
PMID: 23852983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

