

1535. Biol Lett. 2013 Jul 10;9(4):20130409. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2013.0409. Print 2013 Aug
23.

Expression of taste signal transduction molecules in the caecum of common
marmosets.

Gonda S(1), Matsumura S, Saito S, Go Y, Imai H.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Applied Biological Sciences, Gifu University, , 1-1 Yanagido, Gifu,
Gifu 501-1193, Japan.

The extraoral presence of taste signal transduction proteins has recently been
reported in rodents and humans. Here, we report for the first time the presence
of these signal transduction proteins in the caecum of a non-human primate, the
common marmoset. Quantitative RT-PCR data on the gene expression of taste signal 
transduction molecules (gustducin and TRPM5) in common marmosets suggested high
expression in the caecum, which was not observed in other non-human primates.
Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed the specific presence of gustducin and
taste receptors in marmoset caecal cells. These results may relate to the
specific feeding behaviour of marmosets, which consume plant exudates, primarily 
gums.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2013.0409 
PMCID: PMC3730651
PMID: 23843216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1536. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 28;8(6):e68276. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068276. Print 2013.

Relationship between size summation properties, contrast sensitivity and response
latency in the dorsomedial and middle temporal areas of the primate extrastriate 
cortex.

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
Leo.Lui@monash.edu

Analysis of the physiological properties of single neurons in visual cortex has
demonstrated that both the extent of their receptive fields and the latency of
their responses depend on stimulus contrast. Here, we explore the question of
whether there are also systematic relationships between these response properties
across different cells in a neuronal population. Single unit recordings were
obtained from the middle temporal (MT) and dorsomedial (DM) extrastriate areas of
anaesthetized marmoset monkeys. For each cell, spatial integration properties
(length and width summation, as well as the presence of end- and side-inhibition 
within 15Â° of the receptive field centre) were determined using gratings of
optimal direction of motion and spatial and temporal frequencies, at 60%
contrast. Following this, contrast sensitivity was assessed using gratings of
near-optimal length and width. In both areas, we found a relationship between
spatial integration and contrast sensitivity properties: cells that summated over
smaller areas of the visual field, and cells that displayed response inhibition
at larger stimulus sizes, tended to show higher contrast sensitivity. In a sample
of MT neurons, we found that cells showing longer latency responses also tended
to summate over larger expanses of visual space in comparison with neurons that
had shorter latencies. In addition, longer-latency neurons also tended to show
less obvious surround inhibition. Interestingly, all of these effects were
stronger and more consistent with respect to the selectivity for stimulus width
and strength of side-inhibition than for length selectivity and end-inhibition.
The results are partially consistent with a hierarchical model whereby more
extensive receptive fields require convergence of information from larger pools
of "feedforward" afferent neurons to reach near-optimal responses. They also
suggest that a common gain normalization mechanism within MT and DM is involved, 
the spatial extent of which is more evident along the cell's preferred axis of
motion.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068276 
PMCID: PMC3695924
PMID: 23840842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

