

1539. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2013 Nov;386(11):963-72. doi:
10.1007/s00210-013-0897-5. Epub 2013 Jun 29.

In vitro pharmacological profile of the A2A receptor antagonist istradefylline.

Saki M(1), Yamada K, Koshimura E, Sasaki K, Kanda T.

Author information: 
(1)Sales and Marketing Division, Marketing Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co.,
Ltd., 1-6-1 Ohtemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8185, Japan.

Adenosine A2A receptors are suggested to be a promising non-dopaminergic target
for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Istradefylline is an adenosine A2A
receptor antagonist that has been reported to exhibit antiparkinsonian activities
in PD patients as well as both rodents and nonhuman primate models of PD. The aim
of this study was to evaluate the in vitro pharmacological profile of
istradefylline as an A2A receptor antagonist. Istradefylline exhibited high
affinity for A2A receptors in humans, marmosets, dogs, rats, and mice. The
affinities for the other subtypes of adenosine receptors (A1, A2B, and A3) were
lower than that for A2A receptors in each species. Istradefylline demonstrated no
significant affinity for other neurotransmitter receptors, including dopamine
receptors (D1, D2, D3, D4, and D5). In addition, istradefylline hardly inhibited 
monoamine oxidase-A, monoamine oxidase-B, or catechol-O-methyl transferase. A
kinetic analysis indicated that istradefylline reversibly binds to the human A2A 
receptors: The association reached equilibrium within 1 min, and the binding was 
also almost completely dissociated within 1 min. Istradefylline inhibited the A2A
agonist CGS21680-induced accumulation of cAMP in the cultured cells and then
shifted the concentration-response curve of CGS21680 to the right without
affecting the maximal response of the agonist. These results indicate that
istradefylline is a potent, selective, and competitive A2A receptor antagonist.
The in vitro pharmacological profile of istradefylline helps to explain the in
vivo profile of istradefylline and may be useful for clinical
pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic considerations of efficacy and safety.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-013-0897-5 
PMID: 23812646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1540. Exp Neurol. 2013 Oct;248:224-7. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2013.06.016. Epub 2013
Jun 26.

Lack of secondary pathology in the thalamus after focal cerebral ischemia in
nonhuman primates.

Lipsanen A(1), Kalesnykas G, Pro-Sistiaga P, Hiltunen M, Vanninen R, Bernaudin M,
Touzani O, Jolkkonen J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine-Neurology, University of Eastern Finland,
Kuopio, Finland.

Remote regions such as the thalamus undergo secondary degeneration after cerebral
ischemia. In rodents, the pathology in the thalamus is characterized by a robust 
inflammatory reaction, β-amyloid (Aβ) accumulation and calcification. Here we
studied whether nonhuman primates subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion
(MCAO) display a similar pathology. Common marmosets (n=4) were subjected to
transient MCAO for 3 h. Two sham-operated animals served as controls. All animals
underwent MRI examination (T2) on postoperative day 7 to assess the location of
the infarct. After a 45-day follow-up period, the animals were perfused for
histology to evaluate β-amyloid and calcium load in the peri-infarct regions and 
the thalamus. There was no Aβ or calcium staining in the sham-operated marmosets.
The contralateral hemisphere was devoid of Aβ and calcium staining in MCAO
animals, except calcium staining in one animal. In the ipsilateral cortex, patchy
groups of Aβ-positive cells were observed. Occasional calcium staining was
observed in the peri-infarct regions, lesion core, and remote regions such as the
substantia nigra. The most important, the thalamus was devoid of any sign of Aβ
and calcium aggregation in MCAO animals. Staining for glial fibrillary acidic
protein (GFAP) showed marked astrogliosis in the ipsilateral cortex and thalamus.
In conclusion, our preliminary study in marmosets did not identify Aβ and calcium
pathology in the thalamus following cerebral ischemia as shown in rodents.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2013.06.016 
PMID: 23810737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

