

1540. Exp Neurol. 2013 Oct;248:224-7. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2013.06.016. Epub 2013
Jun 26.

Lack of secondary pathology in the thalamus after focal cerebral ischemia in
nonhuman primates.

Lipsanen A(1), Kalesnykas G, Pro-Sistiaga P, Hiltunen M, Vanninen R, Bernaudin M,
Touzani O, Jolkkonen J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine-Neurology, University of Eastern Finland,
Kuopio, Finland.

Remote regions such as the thalamus undergo secondary degeneration after cerebral
ischemia. In rodents, the pathology in the thalamus is characterized by a robust 
inflammatory reaction, β-amyloid (Aβ) accumulation and calcification. Here we
studied whether nonhuman primates subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion
(MCAO) display a similar pathology. Common marmosets (n=4) were subjected to
transient MCAO for 3 h. Two sham-operated animals served as controls. All animals
underwent MRI examination (T2) on postoperative day 7 to assess the location of
the infarct. After a 45-day follow-up period, the animals were perfused for
histology to evaluate β-amyloid and calcium load in the peri-infarct regions and 
the thalamus. There was no Aβ or calcium staining in the sham-operated marmosets.
The contralateral hemisphere was devoid of Aβ and calcium staining in MCAO
animals, except calcium staining in one animal. In the ipsilateral cortex, patchy
groups of Aβ-positive cells were observed. Occasional calcium staining was
observed in the peri-infarct regions, lesion core, and remote regions such as the
substantia nigra. The most important, the thalamus was devoid of any sign of Aβ
and calcium aggregation in MCAO animals. Staining for glial fibrillary acidic
protein (GFAP) showed marked astrogliosis in the ipsilateral cortex and thalamus.
In conclusion, our preliminary study in marmosets did not identify Aβ and calcium
pathology in the thalamus following cerebral ischemia as shown in rodents.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2013.06.016 
PMID: 23810737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1541. J Neurosci. 2013 Jun 19;33(25):10312-23. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0020-13.2013.

Neural representation of harmonic complex tones in primary auditory cortex of the
awake monkey.

Fishman YI(1), Micheyl C, Steinschneider M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Kennedy Center, 
Bronx, New York 10461, USA. yonatan.fishman@einstein.yu.edu

Many natural sounds are periodic and consist of frequencies (harmonics) that are 
integer multiples of a common fundamental frequency (F0). Such harmonic complex
tones (HCTs) evoke a pitch corresponding to their F0, which plays a key role in
the perception of speech and music. "Pitch-selective" neurons have been
identified in non-primary auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys. Noninvasive
studies point to a putative "pitch center" located in a homologous cortical
region in humans. It remains unclear whether there is sufficient spectral and
temporal information available at the level of primary auditory cortex (A1) to
enable reliable pitch extraction in non-primary auditory cortex. Here we
evaluated multiunit responses to HCTs in A1 of awake macaques using a stimulus
design employed in auditory nerve studies of pitch encoding. The F0 of the HCTs
was varied in small increments, such that harmonics of the HCTs fell either on
the peak or on the sides of the neuronal pure tone tuning functions. Resultant
response-amplitude-versus-harmonic-number functions ("rate-place profiles")
displayed a periodic pattern reflecting the neuronal representation of individual
HCT harmonics. Consistent with psychoacoustic findings in humans, lower harmonics
were better resolved in rate-place profiles than higher harmonics. Lower F0s were
also temporally represented by neuronal phase-locking to the periodic waveform of
the HCTs. Findings indicate that population responses in A1 contain sufficient
spectral and temporal information for extracting the pitch of HCTs by neurons in 
downstream cortical areas that receive their input from A1.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0020-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3685833
PMID: 23785145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

