

1541. J Neurosci. 2013 Jun 19;33(25):10312-23. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0020-13.2013.

Neural representation of harmonic complex tones in primary auditory cortex of the
awake monkey.

Fishman YI(1), Micheyl C, Steinschneider M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Kennedy Center, 
Bronx, New York 10461, USA. yonatan.fishman@einstein.yu.edu

Many natural sounds are periodic and consist of frequencies (harmonics) that are 
integer multiples of a common fundamental frequency (F0). Such harmonic complex
tones (HCTs) evoke a pitch corresponding to their F0, which plays a key role in
the perception of speech and music. "Pitch-selective" neurons have been
identified in non-primary auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys. Noninvasive
studies point to a putative "pitch center" located in a homologous cortical
region in humans. It remains unclear whether there is sufficient spectral and
temporal information available at the level of primary auditory cortex (A1) to
enable reliable pitch extraction in non-primary auditory cortex. Here we
evaluated multiunit responses to HCTs in A1 of awake macaques using a stimulus
design employed in auditory nerve studies of pitch encoding. The F0 of the HCTs
was varied in small increments, such that harmonics of the HCTs fell either on
the peak or on the sides of the neuronal pure tone tuning functions. Resultant
response-amplitude-versus-harmonic-number functions ("rate-place profiles")
displayed a periodic pattern reflecting the neuronal representation of individual
HCT harmonics. Consistent with psychoacoustic findings in humans, lower harmonics
were better resolved in rate-place profiles than higher harmonics. Lower F0s were
also temporally represented by neuronal phase-locking to the periodic waveform of
the HCTs. Findings indicate that population responses in A1 contain sufficient
spectral and temporal information for extracting the pitch of HCTs by neurons in 
downstream cortical areas that receive their input from A1.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0020-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3685833
PMID: 23785145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1542. J Comp Neurol. 2013 Dec 1;521(17):4027-60. doi: 10.1002/cne.23389.

Differential cadherin expression in the developing postnatal telencephalon of a
New World monkey.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S, Oka M, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, 351-0198, Japan.

Cadherins are cell adhesion molecules widely expressed in the nervous system,
where they play various roles in neural patterning, nuclei formation, axon
guidance, and synapse formation and function. Although many published articles
have reported on cadherin expression in rodents and ferrets, there are limited
data on their expression in primate brains. In this study, in situ hybridization 
analysis was performed for 10 cadherins [nine classic cadherins (Cdh4, -6, -7,
-8, -9, -10, -11, -12, and -20) and T-cadherin (Cdh13)] in the developing
postnatal telencephalon of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Each
cadherin showed broad expression in the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, amygdala,
and hippocampus, as previously shown in the rodent brain. However, detailed
expression patterns differed between rodents and marmosets. In contrast to
rodents, cadherin expression was reduced overall and localized to restricted
areas of the brain during the developmental process, suggesting that cadherins
are more crucially involved in developmental or maturation processes rather than 
in neural functioning. These results also highlight the possibility that
restricted/less redundant cadherin expression allows primate brains to generate
functional diversity among neurons, allowing morphological and functional
differences between rodents and primates.

Copyright Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23389 
PMID: 23784870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

