

1547. BMC Vet Res. 2013 Jun 11;9:113. doi: 10.1186/1746-6148-9-113.

Comparison of three different sedative-anaesthetic protocols (ketamine,
ketamine-medetomidine and alphaxalone) in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Bakker J, Uilenreef JJ, Pelt ER, Brok HP, Remarque EJ, Langermans JA.

BACKGROUND: Handling of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) usually requires
chemical restraint. Ketamine has been associated with muscle damage in primates, 
while common marmosets, compared to other primates, additionally display an
exceptional high sensitivity to ketamine-associated side-effects. Notably, muscle
twitching movements of limbs and hands, and a marked increase in salivation are
observed. We investigated two alternative intramuscular (i.m.) immobilisation
protocols against ketamine (50 mg/kg; protocol 1) in a double-blind randomised
crossover study in ten healthy adult common marmosets for use as a safe reliable,
short-term immobilisation and sedation. These protocols comprised: alphaxalone
(12 mg/kg; protocol 2) and 25 mg/kg ketamine combined with 0.50 mg/kg
medetomidine (reversal with 2.5 mg/kg atipamezole; protocol 3A). Following
completion and unblinding, the project was extended with an additional protocol
(3B), comprising 25 mg/kg ketamine combined with 0.05 mg/kg medetomidine
(reversal with 0.25 mg/kg atipamezole, twice with 35 min interval).
RESULTS: All protocols in this study provided rapid onset (induction times
<5 min) of immobilisation and sedation. Duration of immobilisation was
31.23 ± 22.39 min, 53.72 ± 13.08 min, 19.73 ± 5.74 min, and 22.78 ± 22.37 min for
protocol 1, 2, 3A, and 3B, respectively. Recovery times were 135.84 ± 39.19 min, 
55.79 ± 11.02 min, 405.46 ± 29.81 min, and 291.91 ± 80.34 min, respectively.
Regarding the quality, and reliability (judged by pedal withdrawal reflex,
palpebral reflex and muscle tension) of all protocols, protocol 2 was the most
optimal. Monitored vital parameters were within clinically acceptable limits
during all protocols and there were no fatalities. Indication of muscle damage as
assessed by AST, LDH and CK values was most prominent elevated in protocol 1, 3A,
and 3B.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that intramuscular administration of 12 mg/kg
alphaxalone to common marmosets is preferred over other protocols studied.
Protocol 2 resulted in at least comparable immobilisation quality with acceptable
and less frequent side effects and superior recovery quality. In all protocols,
supportive therapy, such as external heat support, remains mandatory. Notably, an
unacceptable long recovery period in both ketamine/medetomidine protocols
(subsequently reversed with atipamezole) was observed, showing that α-2
adrenoreceptor agonists in the used dose and dosing regime is not the first
choice for sedation in common marmosets in a standard research setting.

DOI: 10.1186/1746-6148-9-113 
PMCID: PMC3686586
PMID: 23758836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1548. Neurobiol Aging. 2013 Nov;34(11):2659-75. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.04.020. Epub 2013 May 30.

Macula-less rat and macula-bearing monkey retinas exhibit common lifelong
proteomic changes.

Böhm MR(1), Mertsch S, König S, Spieker T, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Experimental Ophthalmology, School of Medicine,
Westfalian-Wilhelms-University Münster, Münster, Germany.

The visual consequences of age-related alterations in the neural retina have been
well documented, but little is known about their molecular bases. We performed a 
comparative proteomic analysis of the retinas in marmosets and rats to identify
proteins for which the expression profiles are altered with maturation and aging.
Protein profiles were compared in the newborn, juvenile, middle-age, and aged
retinas using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Matrix-assisted desorption
ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry revealed common proteins in rats and 
marmosets that exhibited changes in concentration throughout life. Western blot, 
quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and
immunohistochemistry analyses of selected proteins and their mRNA were used to
determine whether the changes identified by proteomics were verifiable at the
cellular and molecular levels. We found 4 proteins common to both species
(Parkinson disease [autosomal recessive, early onset] 7/DJ-1, stathmin,
peroxiredoxin, and β-synuclein) whose concentrations were regulated with age.
These findings were confirmed by Western blot, immunohistochemistry, and
quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analyses. The
proteins were localized in certain layers and subsets of cells within the retinas
of both species. The expression of these proteins in the adult human retina was
confirmed with immunohistochemistry. The present study is the first to provide
evidence that the retina is physiologically characterized by specific lifelong
changes in its proteome. These changes are independent of whether the retina
bears a macula, occur in key functional pathways during the processing of visual 
signals, and might be involved in the development of age-related pathologic
entities.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.04.020 
PMID: 23726791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

