

1549. Reprod Biol. 2013 Jun;13(2):139-44. doi: 10.1016/j.repbio.2013.02.002. Epub 2013 
Mar 13.

Ultrasound-guided non-surgical embryo collection in the common marmoset.

Ishibashi H(1), Motohashi HH, Kumon M, Yamamoto K, Okada H, Okada T, Seki K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan. ishiba@ncnp.go.jp

Experimental primate embryology has been hampered by limited access to embryos.
In addition to surgical techniques, the less stressful non-surgical technique of 
uterine flushing has been developed but has had only limitedly used in recovering
pre-implantation embryos from marmoset monkeys. In this study, we introduce the
use of ultrasonography during marmoset non-surgical uterine flushing to make the 
cannulation easier, to further reduce stress, and to ensure thorough uterine
flushing. We were able to cannulate in 99% of the transcervical cannulation
attempts, repeat the flushing up to 17 times with the same animal, and recover up
to 90% of the ovulation products. We also found that 8-cell or earlier stage
embryos could be frequently obtained by non-surgical uterine flushing at 4 or 5
days after ovulation. The easiness and effectiveness of this novel
ultrasound-guided technique will enable more research groups to study marmoset
embryology and facilitate progress in this field.

Copyright Â© 2013 Society for Biology of Reproduction & the Institute of Animal
Reproduction and Food Research of Polish Academy of Sciences in Olsztyn.
Published by Elsevier Urban & Partner Sp. z o.o. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.repbio.2013.02.002 
PMID: 23719119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1550. Infect Immun. 2013 Aug;81(8):2909-19. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00632-13. Epub 2013 May
28.

Differential virulence and disease progression following Mycobacterium
tuberculosis complex infection of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Via LE(1), Weiner DM, Schimel D, Lin PL, Dayao E, Tankersley SL, Cai Y, Coleman
MT, Tomko J, Paripati P, Orandle M, Kastenmayer RJ, Tartakovsky M, Rosenthal A,
Portevin D, Eum SY, Lahouar S, Gagneux S, Young DB, Flynn JL, Barry CE 3rd.

Author information: 
(1)Tuberculosis Research Section, Laboratory of Clinical Infectious Diseases,
National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Disease, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Existing small-animal models of tuberculosis (TB) rarely develop cavitary
disease, limiting their value for assessing the biology and dynamics of this
highly important feature of human disease. To develop a smaller primate model
with pathology similar to that seen in humans, we experimentally infected the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with diverse strains of Mycobacterium
tuberculosis of various pathogenic potentials. These included recent isolates of 
the modern Beijing lineage, the Euro-American X lineage, and M. africanum. All
three strains produced fulminant disease in this animal with a spectrum of
progression rates and clinical sequelae that could be monitored in real time
using 2-deoxy-2-[(18)F]fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography
(PET)/computed tomography (CT). Lesion pathology at sacrifice revealed the entire
spectrum of lesions observed in human TB patients. The three strains produced
different rates of progression to disease, various extents of extrapulmonary
dissemination, and various degrees of cavitation. The majority of live births in 
this species are twins, and comparison of results from siblings with different
infecting strains allowed us to establish that the infection was highly
reproducible and that the differential virulence of strains was not simply host
variation. Quantitative assessment of disease burden by FDG-PET/CT provided an
accurate reflection of the pathology findings at necropsy. These results suggest 
that the marmoset offers an attractive small-animal model of human disease that
recapitulates both the complex pathology and spectrum of disease observed in
humans infected with various M. tuberculosis strain clades.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00632-13 
PMCID: PMC3719573
PMID: 23716617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

