

1552. Brain Behav Evol. 2013;81(4):209-18. doi: 10.1159/000350709. Epub 2013 May 25.

Faster scaling of auditory neurons in cortical areas relative to subcortical
structures in primate brains.

Wong P(1), Peebles JK, Asplund CL, Collins CE, Herculano-Houzel S, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.

Allometric studies in primates have shown that the cerebral cortex, cerebellum,
and remaining brain structures increase in size as a linear function of their
numbers of neurons and nonneuronal cells across primates. Whether such scaling
rules also apply to functionally related structures such as those of the auditory
system is unknown. Here, we investigate the scaling of brain structures in the
auditory pathway of six primate species and the closely related tree shrew. Using
the isotropic fractionator method to estimate the numbers of neurons and
nonneuronal cells in the inferior colliculus, medial geniculate nucleus, and
auditory cortex (Ac), we assessed how they scaled across species and examined the
relative scaling relationships among them. As expected, each auditory structure
scales in mass as a linear function of its number of neurons, with no significant
changes in neuronal density across species. The Ac scales proportionately with
the cerebral cortex as a whole, maintaining a relative mass of approximately 1%
and a relative number of neurons of 0.7%. However, the Ac gains neurons faster
than both subcortical structures examined. As a result, larger primate brains
have increased ratios of cortical to subcortical neurons involved in processing
auditory information.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000350709 
PMID: 23712070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1553. J Med Primatol. 2013 Dec;42(6):300-9. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12055. Epub 2013 May 25.

The influence of gluten on clinical and immunological status of common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Kuehnel F(1), Mietsch M, Buettner T, Vervuert I, Ababneh R, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of Physiological Chemistry,
University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are susceptible to
gastrointestinal diseases. Sensitivity to nutritional elements, for example
gluten, has been suggested, but a serological screening has not been performed
yet.
METHODS: A gluten-containing diet was offered to 24 animals, followed by a
gluten-free diet. During these diets, serum IgA antibodies to gliadin (AGA),
tissue transglutaminase (tTG), deamidated gliadin (ADGA), and glycoprotein 2
(AGP2A) were determined. Body weight, diarrhea, and other clinical symptoms were 
recorded.
RESULTS: Gluten increased AGA, tTG, and AGP2A concentrations in 13 of 24 animals.
A significant decline of AGA and AGP2A was seen on gluten withdrawal. Positive
(AGA, tTG) animals presented diarrhea more frequently on gluten-containing diet
and showed significantly increased body weight on gluten-free diet compared to
negative animals.
CONCLUSION: Gluten ingestion caused gastrointestinal symptoms in common
marmosets, which disappeared on gluten withdrawal. Considering the immunological 
response to both diets, gluten sensitivity seems to be most likely.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12055 
PMID: 23710695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

