

1555. J Neurosci. 2013 May 22;33(21):9161-8. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0066-13.2013.

The role of harmonic resolvability in pitch perception in a vocal nonhuman
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Osmanski MS(1), Song X, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Pitch is one of the most fundamental percepts in the auditory system and can be
extracted using either spectral or temporal information in an acoustic signal.
Although pitch perception has been extensively studied in human subjects, it is
far less clear how nonhuman primates perceive pitch. We have addressed this
question in a series of behavioral studies in which marmosets, a vocal nonhuman
primate species, were trained to discriminate complex harmonic tones differing in
either spectral (fundamental frequency [f0]) or temporal envelope (repetition
rate) cues. We found that marmosets used temporal envelope information to
discriminate pitch for acoustic stimuli with higher-order harmonics and lower f0 
values and spectral information for acoustic stimuli with lower-order harmonics
and higher f0 values. We further measured frequency resolution in marmosets using
a psychophysical task in which pure tone thresholds were measured as a function
of notched noise masker bandwidth. Results show that only the first four
harmonics are resolved at low f0 values and up to 16 harmonics are resolved at
higher f0 values. Resolvability in marmosets is different from that in humans,
where the first five to nine harmonics are consistently resolved across most f0
values, and is likely the result of a smaller marmoset cochlea. In sum, these
results show that marmosets use two mechanisms to extract pitch (harmonic
templates [spectral] for resolved harmonics, and envelope extraction [temporal]
for unresolved harmonics) and that species differences in stimulus resolvability 
need to be taken into account when investigating and comparing mechanisms of
pitch perception across animals.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0066-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3694575
PMID: 23699526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1556. J Virol. 2013 Jul;87(14):8179-94. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00443-13. Epub 2013 May 22.

Epstein-Barr virus transcytosis through polarized oral epithelial cells.

Tugizov SM(1), Herrera R, Palefsky JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco,
California, USA. sharof.tugizov@ucsf.edu

Although Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is an orally transmitted virus, viral
transmission through the oropharyngeal mucosal epithelium is not well understood.
In this study, we investigated how EBV traverses polarized human oral epithelial 
cells without causing productive infection. We found that EBV may be transcytosed
through oral epithelial cells bidirectionally, from both the apical to the
basolateral membranes and the basolateral to the apical membranes. Apical to
basolateral EBV transcytosis was substantially reduced by amiloride, an inhibitor
of macropinocytosis. Electron microscopy showed that virions were surrounded by
apical surface protrusions and that virus was present in subapical vesicles.
Inactivation of signaling molecules critical for macropinocytosis, including
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases, myosin light-chain kinase, Ras-related C3
botulinum toxin substrate 1, p21-activated kinase 1, ADP-ribosylation factor 6,
and cell division control protein 42 homolog, led to significant reduction in EBV
apical to basolateral transcytosis. In contrast, basolateral to apical EBV
transcytosis was substantially reduced by nystatin, an inhibitor of
caveolin-mediated virus entry. Caveolae were detected in the basolateral
membranes of polarized human oral epithelial cells, and virions were detected in 
caveosome-like endosomes. Methyl Î²-cyclodextrin, an inhibitor of caveola
formation, reduced EBV basolateral entry. EBV virions transcytosed in either
direction were able to infect B lymphocytes. Together, these data show that EBV
transmigrates across oral epithelial cells by (i) apical to basolateral
transcytosis, potentially contributing to initial EBV penetration that leads to
systemic infection, and (ii) basolateral to apical transcytosis, which may enable
EBV secretion into saliva in EBV-infected individuals.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00443-13 
PMCID: PMC3700193
PMID: 23698302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

