

1556. J Virol. 2013 Jul;87(14):8179-94. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00443-13. Epub 2013 May 22.

Epstein-Barr virus transcytosis through polarized oral epithelial cells.

Tugizov SM(1), Herrera R, Palefsky JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco,
California, USA. sharof.tugizov@ucsf.edu

Although Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is an orally transmitted virus, viral
transmission through the oropharyngeal mucosal epithelium is not well understood.
In this study, we investigated how EBV traverses polarized human oral epithelial 
cells without causing productive infection. We found that EBV may be transcytosed
through oral epithelial cells bidirectionally, from both the apical to the
basolateral membranes and the basolateral to the apical membranes. Apical to
basolateral EBV transcytosis was substantially reduced by amiloride, an inhibitor
of macropinocytosis. Electron microscopy showed that virions were surrounded by
apical surface protrusions and that virus was present in subapical vesicles.
Inactivation of signaling molecules critical for macropinocytosis, including
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases, myosin light-chain kinase, Ras-related C3
botulinum toxin substrate 1, p21-activated kinase 1, ADP-ribosylation factor 6,
and cell division control protein 42 homolog, led to significant reduction in EBV
apical to basolateral transcytosis. In contrast, basolateral to apical EBV
transcytosis was substantially reduced by nystatin, an inhibitor of
caveolin-mediated virus entry. Caveolae were detected in the basolateral
membranes of polarized human oral epithelial cells, and virions were detected in 
caveosome-like endosomes. Methyl Î²-cyclodextrin, an inhibitor of caveola
formation, reduced EBV basolateral entry. EBV virions transcytosed in either
direction were able to infect B lymphocytes. Together, these data show that EBV
transmigrates across oral epithelial cells by (i) apical to basolateral
transcytosis, potentially contributing to initial EBV penetration that leads to
systemic infection, and (ii) basolateral to apical transcytosis, which may enable
EBV secretion into saliva in EBV-infected individuals.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00443-13 
PMCID: PMC3700193
PMID: 23698302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1557. NMR Biomed. 2013 Nov;26(11):1395-402. doi: 10.1002/nbm.2965. Epub 2013 May 22.

An embedded four-channel receive-only RF coil array for fMRI experiments of the
somatosensory pathway in conscious awake marmosets.

Papoti D(1), Yen CC, Mackel JB, Merkle H, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

fMRI has established itself as the main research tool in neuroscience and brain
cognitive research. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a non-human
primate model of increasing interest in biomedical research. However, commercial 
MRI coils for marmosets are not generally available. The present work describes
the design and construction of a four-channel receive-only surface RF coil array 
with excellent signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) specifically optimized for fMRI
experiments in awake marmosets in response to somatosensory stimulation. The
array was designed as part of a helmet-based head restraint system used to
prevent motion during the scans. High SNR was obtained by building the coil array
using a thin and flexible substrate glued to the inner surface of the restraint
helmet, so as to minimize the distance between the array elements and the
somatosensory cortex. Decoupling between coil elements was achieved by partial
geometrical overlapping and by connecting them to home-built low-input-impedance 
preamplifiers. In vivo images show excellent coverage of the brain cortical
surface with high sensitivity near the somatosensory cortex. Embedding the coil
elements within the restraint helmet allowed fMRI data in response to
somatosensory stimulation to be collected with high sensitivity and
reproducibility in conscious, awake marmosets.

Published 2013. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.2965 
PMCID: PMC4200535
PMID: 23696219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

