

1559. Int J Oncol. 2013 Jul;43(1):29-38. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2013.1949. Epub 2013 May 20.

ROS and ERK1/2-mediated caspase-9 activation increases XAF1 expression in
dexamethasone-induced apoptosis of EBV-transformed B cells.

Park GB(1), Choi Y, Kim YS, Lee HK, Kim D, Hur DY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Research Center for Tumor Immunology, Inje
University College of Medicine, Busan 614-735, Republic of Korea.

Dexamethasone (Dex) inhibits the growth of diverse types of cancer cells and is
utilized clinically for the therapy of hematological malignancies. In this study,
we investigated the molecular mechanisms of Dex action in the apoptosis of
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B cells. We showed that Dex inhibited the
proliferation of EBV-transformed B cells and induced apoptosis by activating
caspase-9, -3 and -8. While activation of caspase-9 was triggered as early as 2 h
after Dex treatment, cleavage of caspase-8 was deferred and was found 8 h after
the exposure. Dex-dependent activation of caspase-8 was blocked by the specific
caspase-9 inhibitor, z-LEHD-fmk. Moreover, Dex significantly increased the
expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP)‑associated factor 1 (XAF1)
and induced the translocation of XAF1 into the cytosol. Cytosolic XAF1 with Puma 
induced the translocation of Bax into mitochondria. Dex led to up-regulation of
reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 after 
the exposure. We speculated that ROS generation might be the first event of
Dex-induced apoptosis because ROS inhibitor NAC abrogated ROS production and
ERK1/2 activation, but PD98059 did not block ROS production. NAC and PD98059 also
suppressed the translocation of XAF1, Puma and Bax into mitochondria. These
results demonstrated that Dex-mediated activation of caspase-9 via ROS generation
and ERK1/2 pathway activation resulted in the activation of caspase-8 and the
increment of XAF1, thereby induced apoptosis of EBV-transformed B cells. These
findings suggest that Dex constitutes a probable therapy for EBV-associated
hematological malignancies.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2013.1949 
PMCID: PMC3742161
PMID: 23685456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1560. J Comp Neurol. 2013 Oct 15;521(15):3451-63. doi: 10.1002/cne.23360.

Patterns of cortical reorganization in the adult marmoset after a cervical spinal
cord injury.

Bowes C(1), Burish M, Cerkevich C, Kaas J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, 37203.

In the present study, we used microelectrode recordings of multiunit responses to
evaluate patterns of the reactivation of somatosensory cortex after sensory loss 
produced by spinal cord lesions in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
These New World monkeys have become a popular model in studies of cortical
organization and function. Primary somatosensory cortex and adjoining
somatosensory areas can become extensively deactivated by lesions of
somatosensory afferents as they ascend in the dorsal columns of the cervical
spinal cord. Six to 7 weeks after complete lesions of the cuneate fasciculus
subserving the forelimb at cervical levels 5-6, the hand region in contralateral 
areas 3b and 1 was reactivated by inputs from the forelimb, but excluded
representations of some or all digits. In a similar manner, recording sites from 
the forelimb region of areas 2-5 responded to parts of the forelimb but not to
digits after an extensive lesion of the contralateral cuneate fasciculus at
C5-C6. Lesions that damaged only the gracile fasciculus or a small percentage of 
the cuneate fasciculus did not produce changes in the gross hand representation
in contralateral areas 3b, 3a, 1, and 2. Finally, a complete but lower lesion of 
the cuneate fasciculus at C8 produced some abnormalities in the reactivation, but
the digits were represented. The results indicate that areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2-5
of the somatosensory cortex are extensively reactivated after large, apparently
complete lesions of the contralateral cuneate fasciculus, but afferents from the 
digits may not contribute to their reactivation.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23360 
PMCID: PMC3977742
PMID: 23681952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

