

1562. PeerJ. 2013 Feb 12;1:e13. doi: 10.7717/peerj.13. Print 2013.

Dissecting the mechanisms of squirrel monkey (Saimiri boliviensis) social
learning.

Hopper L(1), Holmes A, Williams L, Brosnan S.

Author information: 
(1)Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of Apes , Lincoln Park 
Zoo , Chicago, IL , USA ; Language Research Center , Georgia State University ,
Atlanta, GA , USA.

Although the social learning abilities of monkeys have been well documented, this
research has only focused on a few species. Furthermore, of those that also
incorporated dissections of social learning mechanisms, the majority studied
either capuchins (Cebus apella) or marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). To gain a
broader understanding of how monkeys gain new skills, we tested squirrel monkeys 
(Saimiri boliviensis) which have never been studied in tests of social learning
mechanisms. To determine whether S. boliviensis can socially learn, we ran "open 
diffusion" tests with monkeys housed in two social groups (N = 23). Over the
course of 10 20-min sessions, the monkeys in each group observed a trained group 
member retrieving a mealworm from a bidirectional task (the "Slide-box"). Two
thirds (67%) of these monkeys both learned how to operate the Slide-box and they 
also moved the door significantly more times in the direction modeled by the
trained demonstrator than the alternative direction. To tease apart the
underlying social learning mechanisms we ran a series of three control conditions
with 35 squirrel monkeys that had no previous experience with the Slide-box. The 
first replicated the experimental open diffusion sessions but without the
inclusion of a trained model, the second was a no-information control with dyads 
of monkeys, and the third was a 'ghost' display shown to individual monkeys. The 
first two controls tested for the importance of social support (mere presence
effect) and the ghost display showed the affordances of the task to the monkeys. 
The monkeys showed a certain level of success in the group control (54% of
subjects solved the task on one or more occasions) and paired controls (28% were 
successful) but none were successful in the ghost control. We propose that the
squirrel monkeys' learning, observed in the experimental open diffusion tests,
can be best described by a combination of social learning mechanisms in concert; 
in this case, those mechanisms are most likely object movement reenactment and
social facilitation. We discuss the interplay of these mechanisms and how they
related to learning shown by other primate species.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.13 
PMCID: PMC3628937
PMID: 23638347 


1563. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2013 Jun 1;23(11):3157-61. doi: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2013.04.012.
Epub 2013 Apr 12.

Discovery of
(R)-N-(3-(7-methyl-1H-indazol-5-yl)-1-(4-(1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)-1-oxopropan-2-y
l)-4-(2-oxo-1,2-dihydroquinolin-3-yl)piperidine-1-carboxamide (BMS-742413): a
potent human CGRP antagonist with superior safety profile for the treatment of
migraine through intranasal delivery.

Chaturvedula PV(1), Mercer SE, Pin SS, Thalody G, Xu C, Conway CM, Keavy D,
Signor L, Cantor GH, Mathias N, Moench P, Denton R, Macci R, Schartman R,
Whiterock V, Davis C, Macor JE, Dubowchik GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Sciences and Candidate Optimization, Bristol-Myers
Squibb R&D, 5 Research Parkway, Wallingford, CT 06492, USA.
Prasad.Chaturvedula@bms.com

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists have been shown to be
efficacious as abortive migraine therapeutics with the absence of cardiovascular 
liabilities that are associated with triptans. Herein, we report the discovery of
a highly potent CGRP receptor antagonist, BMS-742413, with the potential to
provide rapid onset of action through intranasal delivery. The compound displays 
excellent aqueous solubility, oxidative stability, and toxicological profile.
BMS-742413 has good intranasal bioavailability in the rabbit and shows a robust, 
dose-dependent inhibition of CGRP-induced increases in marmoset facial blood
flow.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2013.04.012 
PMID: 23632269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

