

1565. J Med Primatol. 2013 Aug;42(4):177-85. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12050. Epub 2013 Apr 20.

Numerical chromosome disorders in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus)--comparison between two captive colonies.

Delimitreva S(1), Wedi E, Bakker J, Tkachenko OY, Nikolova V, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Reproductive Biomedicine, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany. delimitreva@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Chromosomal analyses were performed for marmosets from two colonies -
Deutsches Primatenzentrum (DPZ) and Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC).
Chlorine-based disinfectants are used in DPZ; no chemical disinfection is applied
in BPRC.
METHODS: The rates of chromosomal non-disjunction, polyploidy and
endoreduplication were investigated after G-banding.
RESULTS: For DPZ monkeys, the mean rates of non-disjunction were 7.6% for bone
marrow and 11.3% for lymphocytes. The polyploidy level was 2.5% in bone marrow
and 0.8% in blood. Frequency of endoreduplication in bone marrow and in
leucocytes was 0.5% and 0.8%, respectively. For BPRC, the rate of non-disjunction
in leucocytes (1.3%) was significantly lower than that for DPZ; the polyploidy
rate (0.2%) in blood was lower than that in DPZ; endoreduplication was not
observed.
CONCLUSION: The levels of chromosomal disorders are elevated for DPZ colony. We
suggest that the increased rate of chromosomal disorders in DPZ marmosets can be 
related to the chemical disinfection of their environment.

Â© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12050 
PMID: 23600894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1566. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2013 Mar;238(3):276-84. doi: 10.1177/1535370213482442.

Directed neural differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells from non-human 
primates.

Farnsworth SL(1), Qiu Z, Mishra A, Hornsby PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans Health 
Care System, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) are important for the future
development of regenerative medicine involving autologous cell therapy. Before
autologous cell therapy can be applied to human patients, suitable animal models 
must be developed, and in this context non-human primate models are critical. We 
previously characterized several lines of marmoset iPS cells derived from newborn
skin fibroblasts. In the present studies, we explored methods for the directed
differentiation of marmoset iPS cells in the neuroectodermal lineage. In this
process we used an iterative process in which combinations of small molecules and
protein factors were tested for their effects on mRNA levels of genes that are
markers for the neuroectodermal lineage. This iterative process identified
combinations of chemicals/factors that substantially improved the degree of
marker gene expression over the initially tested combinations. This approach
should be generally valuable in the directed differentiation of pluripotent cells
for experimental cell therapy.

DOI: 10.1177/1535370213482442 
PMCID: PMC3737072
PMID: 23598973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

