

1566. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2013 Mar;238(3):276-84. doi: 10.1177/1535370213482442.

Directed neural differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells from non-human 
primates.

Farnsworth SL(1), Qiu Z, Mishra A, Hornsby PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans Health 
Care System, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) are important for the future
development of regenerative medicine involving autologous cell therapy. Before
autologous cell therapy can be applied to human patients, suitable animal models 
must be developed, and in this context non-human primate models are critical. We 
previously characterized several lines of marmoset iPS cells derived from newborn
skin fibroblasts. In the present studies, we explored methods for the directed
differentiation of marmoset iPS cells in the neuroectodermal lineage. In this
process we used an iterative process in which combinations of small molecules and
protein factors were tested for their effects on mRNA levels of genes that are
markers for the neuroectodermal lineage. This iterative process identified
combinations of chemicals/factors that substantially improved the degree of
marker gene expression over the initially tested combinations. This approach
should be generally valuable in the directed differentiation of pluripotent cells
for experimental cell therapy.

DOI: 10.1177/1535370213482442 
PMCID: PMC3737072
PMID: 23598973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1567. J Neurosci. 2013 Apr 17;33(16):6864-76. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5208-12.2013.

Cortical-like receptive fields in the lateral geniculate nucleus of marmoset
monkeys.

Cheong SK(1), Tailby C, Solomon SG, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, The University of Sydney Eye
Hospital Campus, Sydney, New South Wales 2001, Australia.

Most neurons in primary visual cortex (V1) exhibit high selectivity for the
orientation of visual stimuli. In contrast, neurons in the main thalamic input to
V1, the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), are considered to be only weakly
orientation selective. Here we characterize a sparse population of cells in
marmoset LGN that show orientation and spatial frequency selectivity as great as 
that of cells in V1. The recording position in LGN and histological
reconstruction of these cells shows that they are part of the koniocellular (K)
pathways. Accordingly we have named them K-o ("koniocellular-orientation") cells.
Most K-o cells prefer vertically oriented gratings; their contrast sensitivity
and TF tuning are similar to those of parvocellular cells, and they receive
negligible functional input from short wavelength-sensitive ("blue") cone
photoreceptors. Four K-o cells tested displayed binocular responses. Our results 
provide further evidence that in primates as in nonprimate mammals the cortical
input streams include a diversity of visual representations. The presence of K-o 
cells increases functional homologies between K pathways in primates and
"sluggish/W" pathways in nonprimate visual systems.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5208-12.2013 
PMCID: PMC6618877
PMID: 23595745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

