

1570. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jul 1;248:144-50. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.04.001. Epub 2013
Apr 8.

Hand preference depends on posture in common marmosets.

Hashimoto T(1), Yamazaki Y, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)Lab for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Saitama, Japan.

Postural conditions are known to affect hand use in many primate species. It
remains to be examined how posture and task differences modulate, or interact
with, hand use in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Three experimental
conditions were introduced to assess the occurrence of preferential hand use as a
function of posture and size of aperture for the subjects to grasp and retrieve
the food item bi- or unimanually: ground level condition for requiring
quadrupedal posture with enough space for food reaching with both hands, large
hole (4 cm in diameter) condition for requiring upright posture with available
space for both hands, and small hole (2 cm in diameter) condition for requiring
upright posture with available space for only one hand. While the distribution of
hand preference did not significantly differ among the three conditions at the
group level, eight out of twelve marmosets did not change hands when identical
upright postures were required in large and small hole conditions. Some marmosets
simultaneously used both hands when both hands were free to reach the food items;
however, the number of left hand users increased when the marmosets were forced
to use either hand to pass through the reduced hole size. Significant
correlations in hand use between the upright posture conditions were observed,
whereas no correlation was observed between the different posture conditions.
These results suggest that, although preferential hand use was not found at group
level, posture, but not size of aperture, has effects on hand use in individual
common marmosets.

Copyright Â© 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.04.001 
PMID: 23578761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1571. Front Neural Circuits. 2013 Apr 9;7:43. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00043.
eCollection 2013.

Monocular inhibition reveals temporal and spatial changes in gene expression in
the primary visual cortex of marmoset.

Nakagami Y(1), Watakabe A, Yamamori T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, Department of Neurobiology, National Institute for 
Basic Biology Okazaki, Japan.

We investigated the time course of the expression of several activity-dependent
genes evoked by visual inputs in the primary visual cortex (V1) in adult
marmosets. In order to examine the rapid time course of activity-dependent gene
expression, marmosets were first monocularly inactivated by tetrodotoxin (TTX),
kept in darkness for two days, and then exposed to various length of light
stimulation. Activity-dependent genes including HTR1B, HTR2A, whose
activity-dependency were previously reported by us, and well-known immediate
early genes (IEGs), c-FOS, ZIF268, and ARC, were examined by in situ
hybridization. Using this system, first, we demonstrated the ocular dominance
type of gene expression pattern in V1 under this condition. IEGs were expressed
in columnar patterns throughout layers II-VI of all the tested monocular
marmosets. Second, we showed the regulation of HTR1B and HTR2A expressions by
retinal spontaneous activity, because HTR1B and HTR2A mRNA expressions sustained 
a certain level regardless of visual stimulation and were inhibited by a blockade
of the retinal activity with TTX. Third, IEGs dynamically changed its laminar
distribution from half an hour to several hours upon a stimulus onset with the
unique time course for each gene. The expression patterns of these genes were
different in neurons of each layer as well. These results suggest that the
regulation of each neuron in the primary visual cortex of marmosets is subjected 
to different regulation upon the change of activities from retina. It should be
related to a highly differentiated laminar structure of marmoset visual systems, 
reflecting the functions of the activity-dependent gene expression in marmoset
V1.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00043 
PMCID: PMC3620563
PMID: 23576954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

