

1572. Neuroimage. 2013 Sep;78:186-95. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.038. Epub 2013 
Apr 6.

fMRI in the awake marmoset: somatosensory-evoked responses, functional
connectivity, and comparison with propofol anesthesia.

Liu JV(1), Hirano Y, Nascimento GC, Stefanovic B, Leopold DA, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, 10 Center Drive, Building 10, Room B1D106, Bethesda, MD
20892, USA. liu@junjie.com

Functional neuroimaging in animal models is essential for understanding the
principles of neurovascular coupling and the physiological basis of fMRI signals 
that are widely used to study sensory and cognitive processing in the human
brain. While hemodynamic responses to sensory stimuli have been characterized in 
humans, animal studies are able to combine very high resolution imaging with
invasive measurements and pharmacological manipulation. To date, most
high-resolution studies of neurovascular coupling in small animals have been
carried out in anesthetized rodents. Here we report fMRI experiments in
conscious, awake common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and compare responses to 
animals anesthetized with propofol. In conscious marmosets, robust BOLD fMRI
responses to somatosensory stimulation of the forearm were found in contralateral
and ipsilateral regions of the thalamus, primary (SI) and secondary (SII)
somatosensory cortex, and the caudate nucleus. These responses were markedly
stronger than those in anesthetized marmosets and showed a monotonic increase in 
the amplitude of the BOLD response with stimulus frequency. On the other hand,
anesthesia significantly attenuated responses in thalamus, SI and SII, and
abolished responses in caudate and ipsilateral SI. Moreover, anesthesia
influenced several other aspects of the fMRI responses, including the shape of
the hemodynamic response function and the interareal (SI-SII) spontaneous
functional connectivity. Together, these findings demonstrate the value of the
conscious, awake marmoset model for studying physiological responses in the
somatosensory pathway, in the absence of anesthesia, so that the data can be
compared most directly to fMRI in conscious humans.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.038 
PMCID: PMC3778909
PMID: 23571417  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1573. J Vet Med Sci. 2013;75(8):1119-21. Epub 2013 Apr 5.

Spontaneous Tyzzer's disease with the central nerve involvement in a newborn
common marmoset.

Yoshida K(1), Nibe K, Nakamura T, Takahashi T, Komatsu M, Ogawa H, Shirota K,
Chambers JK, Nakayama H, Uchida K.

Author information: 
(1)Sanritsu Zelkova Veterinary Laboratory, 2-5-8 Kuji, Takatsu-ku, Kawasaki,
Kanagawa 213-0032, Japan.

A new-born (8-day-old) male marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was found dead in a
zoo. The littermate and parents had no clinical abnormalities. By gross
observations at necropsy, there were moderate to severe multiple necrotic foci in
the liver and heart. Histopathological examinations also revealed mild focal
necrosis with neutrophilic infiltration in the cerebral cortex. By Giemsa stained
sections, intracytoplasmic bundles of large bacilli were observed in the
hepatocytes, intestinal epithelial cells, cardiac myocytes and neuronal cells
around the necrotic lesions. Immunohistochemically, these bacilli were intensely 
positive for rabbit sera against Clostridium piliforme, RT and MSK strains.
Although Tyzzer's disease has been rarely reported in primates, the central
nervous system (CNS) lesions by Clostridium piliforme infections are very
unusual.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.13-0121 
PMID: 23558957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

