

1575. DNA Res. 2013 Jun;20(3):255-62. doi: 10.1093/dnares/dst007. Epub 2013 Mar 29.

Development and characterization of cDNA resources for the common marmoset: one
of the experimental primate models.

Tatsumoto S(1), Adati N, Tohtoki Y, Sakaki Y, Boroviak T, Habu S, Okano H,
Suemizu H, Sasaki E, Satake M.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Genomic Sciences Center, Suehiro-cho 1-7-22, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama
230-0045, Japan.

The common marmoset is a new world monkey, which has become a valuable
experimental animal for biomedical research. This study developed cDNA libraries 
for the common marmoset from five different tissues. A total of 290 426
high-quality EST sequences were obtained, where 251 587 sequences (86.5%) had
homology (1E(-100)) with the Refseqs of six different primate species, including 
human and marmoset. In parallel, 270 673 sequences (93.2%) were aligned to the
human genome. When 247 090 sequences were assembled into 17 232 contigs, most of 
the sequences (218 857 or 15 089 contigs) were located in exonic regions,
indicating that these genes are expressed in human and marmoset. The other 5578
sequences (or 808 contigs) mapping to the human genome were not located in exonic
regions, suggesting that they are not expressed in human. Furthermore, a
different set of 118 potential coding sequences were not similar to any Refseqs
in any species, and, thus, may represent unknown genes. The cDNA libraries
developed in this study are available through RIKEN Bio Resource Center. A Web
server for the marmoset cDNAs is available at
http://marmoset.nig.ac.jp/index.html, where each marmoset EST sequence has been
annotated by reference to the human genome. These new libraries will be a useful 
genetic resource to facilitate research in the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1093/dnares/dst007 
PMCID: PMC3686431
PMID: 23543116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1576. Biol Reprod. 2013 May 9;88(5):115. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.113.109165. Print 2013
May.

Efficient embryo transfer in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) with
a reduced transfer volume: a non-surgical approach with cryopreserved late-stage 
embryos.

Ishibashi H(1), Motohashi HH, Kumon M, Yamamoto K, Okada H, Okada T, Seki K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan. ishiba@ncnp.go.jp

Among primates, the common marmoset is suitable for primate embryology research. 
Its small body size, however, has delayed the technical development of efficient 
embryo transfer. Furthermore, three factors have been determined to adversely
affect the performance of marmoset embryo transfer: nonsurgical approaches, the
use of cryopreserved embryos, and the use of late-stage embryos. Here we
performed embryo transfer under conditions that included the above three factors 
and using either a small (1 μl or less) or a large volume (2-3 μl) of medium. The
pregnancy and birth rates were 50% (5/10) and 27% (3/11), respectively, when
using the large volume, and 80% (8/10) and 75% (9/12), respectively, when using
the small volume. The latter scores exceed those of previous reports using
comparable conditions. Thus, it appears that these three previously considered
factors could be overcome, and we propose that reducing the transfer volume to 1 
μl or less is essential for successful marmoset embryo transfer.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.113.109165 
PMID: 23536374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

