

1577. Neuroimage. 2013 Aug 15;77:268-78. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.005. Epub
2013 Mar 22.

Micro-compartment specific T2* relaxation in the brain.

Sati P(1), van Gelderen P, Silva AC, Reich DS, Merkle H, de Zwart JA, Duyn JH.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Unit, Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institute 
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD
20892, USA.

MRI at high field can be sensitized to the magnetic properties of tissues, which 
introduces a signal dependence on the orientation of white matter (WM) fiber
bundles relative to the magnetic field. In addition, study of the NMR relaxation 
properties of this signal has indicated contributions from compartmentalized
water environments inside and outside the myelin sheath that may be separable.
Here we further investigated the effects of water compartmentalization on the MRI
signal with the goal of extracting compartment-specific information. By comparing
MRI measurements of human and marmoset brain at 7T with magnetic field modeling, 
we show that: (1) water between the myelin lipid bilayers, in the axonal, and in 
the interstitial space each experience characteristic magnetic field effects that
depend on fiber orientation (2) these field effects result in characteristic
relaxation properties and frequency shifts for these compartments; and (3)
compartmental contributions may be separated by multi-component fitting of the
MRI signal relaxation (i.e. decay) curve. We further show the potential
application of these findings to the direct mapping of myelin content and
assessment of WM fiber integrity with high field MRI.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2013.03.005 
PMCID: PMC3816634
PMID: 23528924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1578. Exp Eye Res. 2013 Jun;111:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2013.03.010. Epub 2013 Mar 22.

Establishment of the ocular hypertension model using the common marmoset.

Shimazawa M(1), Nakamura S, Miwa M, Tsuruma K, Aihara M, Nakamura K, Hara H.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, 1-25-4 Daigaku-nishi, Gifu 501-1196, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to establish an experimental glaucoma model in the 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Chronic intraocular pressure (IOP)
elevation was induced by laser trabeculoplasty twice at 2-week intervals in the
left eyes of 4 common marmosets. IOP was measured before and at 4, 7, 8, 11, 13
weeks after first laser treatment, and ophthalmoscopic examinations were also
performed. At 13 weeks after laser treatment, each eye was enucleated, and
retinal cross-sections and optic nerve were prepared for histological
examination. Mean IOP values measured at the above 5 time points were over 40
mmHg in laser-treated eyes in 3 marmosets, but IOP in one marmoset was
transiently increased to 26.6 mmHg at 7 weeks and then declined to the baseline
level. In ophthalmoscopy, deepened and enlarged optic disc cupping, depending on 
the extent of IOP elevation and duration, were observed in laser-treated eyes of 
3 marmosets with persistent IOP elevation, but there was no apparent change in
the optic disc in the laser-treated eye of one marmoset with transient IOP
elevation. Histological examination showed marked atrophy with deepened and
enlarged cupping of optic disc, thinning of retinal nerve fiber layer and retinal
ganglion loss in the retina, and axonal atrophy and loss in the optic nerve,
depending on the extent of IOP elevation and duration. In conclusion, we
succeeded in producing an experimental glaucoma model in the common marmoset, and
this model may be useful in elucidating the pathophysiological mechanism for
glaucoma.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2013.03.010 
PMID: 23528536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

