

1579. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e60037. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060037. Epub 2013 Mar 20.

A new non-human primate model of photochemically induced cerebral infarction.

Ikeda S(1), Harada K, Ohwatashi A, Kamikawa Y, Yoshida A, Kawahira K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation and Physical Medicine, Graduate School of Medical
and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Japan.
ikedas@m2.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Rat models of photochemically induced cerebral infarction
have been readily studied, but to date there are no reports of transcranial
photochemically induced infarctions in the marmoset. In this report, we used this
non-human primate as a model of cerebral thrombosis and observed the recovery
process.
METHODS: Five common marmosets were used. Cerebral ischemia was produced via
intravascular thrombosis induced by an intravenous injection of Rose Bengal and
irradiation with green light. After inducing cerebral infarction, we observed the
behavior of marmosets via a continuous video recording. We evaluated maximum
speed, mean speed, and distance traveled in 1 min. In addition, we evaluated
scores for feeding behavior, upper limb grip, and lower limb grip. We confirmed
the infarct area after cerebral infarction using 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium
chloride staining in a separate marmoset.
RESULTS: We found functional decreases 2 days after creating the cerebral
infarction in all measurements. Total distance traveled, average speed, upper
limb score, and feeding behavior score did not recover to pre-infarction levels
within 28 days. Maximum speed in 1 min and lower limb score recovered 28 days
after infarction as compared to pre-infarction levels. We confirmed the infarct
area of 11.4 mm Ã— 6.8 mm as stained with 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride.
CONCLUSION: We were able to create a primate photothrombosis-induced cerebral
infarction model using marmosets and observe functional recovery. We suggest that
this is a useful model for basic research of cerebral infarction.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060037 
PMCID: PMC3603910
PMID: 23527298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1580. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e58840. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058840. Epub 2013 Mar 18.

Comparative analysis of protocadherin-11 X-linked expression among postnatal
rodents, non-human primates, and songbirds suggests its possible involvement in
brain evolution.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S, Oka M, Okanoya K, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Japan. Eiji.Matsunaga@brain.riken.jp

BACKGROUND: Protocadherin-11 is a cell adhesion molecule of the cadherin
superfamily. Since, only in humans, its paralog is found on the Y chromosome, it 
is expected that protocadherin-11X/Y plays some role in human brain evolution or 
sex differences. Recently, a genetic mutation of protocadherin-11X/Y was reported
to be associated with a language development disorder. Here, we compared the
expression of protocadherin-11 X-linked in developing postnatal brains of mouse
(rodent) and common marmoset (non-human primate) to explore its possible
involvement in mammalian brain evolution. We also investigated its expression in 
the Bengalese finch (songbird) to explore a possible function in animal
vocalization and human language faculties.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Protocadherin-11 X-linked was strongly expressed 
in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala and brainstem. Comparative analysis
between mice and marmosets revealed that in certain areas of marmoset brain, the 
expression was clearly enriched. In Bengalese finches, protocadherin-11 X-linked 
was expressed not only in nuclei of regions of the vocal production pathway and
the tracheosyringeal hypoglossal nucleus, but also in areas homologous to the
mammalian amygdala and hippocampus. In both marmosets and Bengalese finches, its 
expression in pallial vocal control areas was developmentally regulated, and no
clear expression was seen in the dorsal striatum, indicating a similarity between
songbirds and non-human primates.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our results suggest that the enriched expression of
protocadherin-11 X-linked is involved in primate brain evolution and that some
similarity exists between songbirds and primates regarding the neural basis for
vocalization.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058840 
PMCID: PMC3601081
PMID: 23527036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

