

1582. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2013 Sep;21(9):1891-9. doi: 10.1002/oby.20432. Epub 2013
Jul 2.

Relation of food intake behaviors and obesity development in young common
marmoset monkeys.

Ross CN(1), Power ML, Artavia JM, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, Barshop Institute for Longevity
and Aging, University of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio, Texas, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Increasing prevalence of childhood obesity and associated risks of
adult type disease have led to worldwide concern. It remains unclear how genetic 
predisposition, environmental exposure to obesogenic food, and developmental
programming interact to lead to overweight and obese children. The development of
a nonhuman primate model of obesity, and particularly juvenile obesity, is an
important step to elucidating the factors associated with obesity and evaluating 
intervention strategies.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Infant marmosets were followed from birth to 12 months of
age. Feeding phenotypes were determined through the use of behavioral
observation, solid food intake trials, and liquid feeding trials monitored via
lickometer.
RESULTS: Marmosets found to be obese at 12 months of age (more than 14% body fat)
start consuming solid food sooner and initiate more time off of care givers.
These individuals developed stable feeding phenotypes that included being more
efficient consumers during liquid intake trials, drinking more grams of diet per 
contact with the licksit.
CONCLUSIONS: The weaning process appears to be particularly important in the
development of feeding phenotypes and the development of juvenile obesity for the
marmosets, and thus this is the time that should be focused upon for intervention
testing in both nonhuman primates and children.

Copyright © 2013 The Obesity Society.

DOI: 10.1002/oby.20432 
PMCID: PMC3722271
PMID: 23512878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1583. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2013 Jun;8(3):727-38. doi: 10.1007/s11481-013-9448-6.
Epub 2013 Mar 19.

The different clinical effects of anti-BLyS, anti-APRIL and anti-CD20 antibodies 
point at a critical pathogenic role of γ-herpesvirus infected B cells in the
marmoset EAE model.

Anwar Jagessar S(1), Fagrouch Z, Heijmans N, Bauer J, Laman JD, Oh L, Migone T,
Verschoor EJ, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, PO Box 3306,
2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. jagessar@bprc.nl

The robust and rapid clinical effect of depleting anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies
(mAb) in multiple sclerosis (MS) demonstrates a critical pathogenic contribution 
of B cells. The clinical effect of anti-CD20 mAb has been replicated in a
relevant preclinical MS model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). By contrast, treatment with mAbs against
two essential cytokines in B cell activation growth and survival, i.e. BlyS/BAFF 
and APRIL, was only partially effective. All three mAbs induced depletion of
CD20+ B cells from the circulation, albeit with different kinetics and based on
distinct mechanisms of action. In the current study we analyzed whether the
different clinical effect of anti-CD20 mAb or the anti-BLyS and anti-APRIL mAbs
is due to different depletion of B cells infected with the EBV of marmosets,
CalHV3. Employing a novel PCR-based assay, half of the colony of group-housed
marmosets was tested positive for CalHV3 DNA in secondary lymphoid organs. The
same prevalence was observed in placebo-treated monkeys. In marmosets treated
with anti-CD20 mAb the load of CalHV3 DNA in lymphoid organs was substantially
reduced, while this was not observed in the monkeys treated with anti-BLyS or
anti-APRIL mAbs. To examine the pathogenic role of virus-transformed B cells, we 
infused EBV-transformed B lymphoblastic cell (BLC) lines presenting the
immunodominant MOG34-56 peptide. We observed in the recipients of MOG34-56 pulsed
BLC, but not in their fraternal siblings infused with non-pulsed BLC, activation 
of anti-MOG34-56 T cells and meningeal inflammation. Collectively, the data show 
that among CD20+ B cells, the herpesvirus-transformed subset has a particularly
important pathogenic role in the marmoset EAE model.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-013-9448-6 
PMID: 23508625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

