

1583. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2013 Jun;8(3):727-38. doi: 10.1007/s11481-013-9448-6.
Epub 2013 Mar 19.

The different clinical effects of anti-BLyS, anti-APRIL and anti-CD20 antibodies 
point at a critical pathogenic role of γ-herpesvirus infected B cells in the
marmoset EAE model.

Anwar Jagessar S(1), Fagrouch Z, Heijmans N, Bauer J, Laman JD, Oh L, Migone T,
Verschoor EJ, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, PO Box 3306,
2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. jagessar@bprc.nl

The robust and rapid clinical effect of depleting anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies
(mAb) in multiple sclerosis (MS) demonstrates a critical pathogenic contribution 
of B cells. The clinical effect of anti-CD20 mAb has been replicated in a
relevant preclinical MS model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). By contrast, treatment with mAbs against
two essential cytokines in B cell activation growth and survival, i.e. BlyS/BAFF 
and APRIL, was only partially effective. All three mAbs induced depletion of
CD20+ B cells from the circulation, albeit with different kinetics and based on
distinct mechanisms of action. In the current study we analyzed whether the
different clinical effect of anti-CD20 mAb or the anti-BLyS and anti-APRIL mAbs
is due to different depletion of B cells infected with the EBV of marmosets,
CalHV3. Employing a novel PCR-based assay, half of the colony of group-housed
marmosets was tested positive for CalHV3 DNA in secondary lymphoid organs. The
same prevalence was observed in placebo-treated monkeys. In marmosets treated
with anti-CD20 mAb the load of CalHV3 DNA in lymphoid organs was substantially
reduced, while this was not observed in the monkeys treated with anti-BLyS or
anti-APRIL mAbs. To examine the pathogenic role of virus-transformed B cells, we 
infused EBV-transformed B lymphoblastic cell (BLC) lines presenting the
immunodominant MOG34-56 peptide. We observed in the recipients of MOG34-56 pulsed
BLC, but not in their fraternal siblings infused with non-pulsed BLC, activation 
of anti-MOG34-56 T cells and meningeal inflammation. Collectively, the data show 
that among CD20+ B cells, the herpesvirus-transformed subset has a particularly
important pathogenic role in the marmoset EAE model.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-013-9448-6 
PMID: 23508625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1584. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2013 Jun;8(3):715-26. doi: 10.1007/s11481-013-9450-z.
Epub 2013 Mar 17.

Oral treatment with the NADPH oxidase antagonist apocynin mitigates clinical and 
pathological features of parkinsonism in the MPTP marmoset model.

Philippens IH(1), Wubben JA, Finsen B, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
161, P.O. Box 3306, 2280 GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. philippens@bprc.nl

This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy of the NADPH oxidase inhibitor
apocynin, isolated as principal bioactive component from the medicinal plant
Picrorhiza kurroa, in a marmoset MPTP model of Parkinson's disease (PD). The
methoxy-substituted catechol apocynin has a similar structure as homovanillic
acid (HVA), a metabolite of dopamine (DA). Apocynin acquires its selective
inhibitory capacity of the reactive oxygen species generating NADPH oxidase via
metabolic activation by myeloperoxidase (MPO). As MPO is upregulated in activated
brain microglia cells of PD patients and in MPTP animal models, the conditions
for metabolic activation of apocynin and inhibition of microglia NADPH oxidase
are in place. Marmoset monkeys received oral apocynin (100 mg/kg; p.o.) (n = 5)
or Gum Arabica (controls; n = 5) three times daily until the end of the study,
starting 1 week before PD induction with MPTP (1 mg/kg s.c. for 8 days).
Parkinsonian symptoms, motor function, home-cage activity and body weight were
monitored to assess the disease development and severity. Post-mortem numbers of 
the tyrosine hydroxylase expressing DA neurons in the substantia nigra were
counted. During the MPTP injections, apocynin limited the body weight loss and
relieved parkinsonian symptoms compared to controls (Linear regression, P < 0.05)
indicating a reduction of disease progression. During the last test week,
apocynin also improved the hand-eye coordination performance compared with
vehicle treatment (resp. 39.3 ± 4.5 % and 17.7 ± 6.7 %; P = 0.048) and improved
the home cage activity with 32 % (P = 0.029), indicating anti-Parkinson efficacy.
Apocynin also increased the number of surviving DA neurons in MPTP-treated
marmosets with 8.5 % (P = 0.059), indicating a tendency towards a neuroprotective
efficacy. In conclusion, compensation for the loss of DA and its metabolite HVA
by apocynin mitigates the PD progression and limits the parkinsonian signs and
motor-function deterioration.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-013-9450-z 
PMID: 23504289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

