

1584. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2013 Jun;8(3):715-26. doi: 10.1007/s11481-013-9450-z.
Epub 2013 Mar 17.

Oral treatment with the NADPH oxidase antagonist apocynin mitigates clinical and 
pathological features of parkinsonism in the MPTP marmoset model.

Philippens IH(1), Wubben JA, Finsen B, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
161, P.O. Box 3306, 2280 GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. philippens@bprc.nl

This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy of the NADPH oxidase inhibitor
apocynin, isolated as principal bioactive component from the medicinal plant
Picrorhiza kurroa, in a marmoset MPTP model of Parkinson's disease (PD). The
methoxy-substituted catechol apocynin has a similar structure as homovanillic
acid (HVA), a metabolite of dopamine (DA). Apocynin acquires its selective
inhibitory capacity of the reactive oxygen species generating NADPH oxidase via
metabolic activation by myeloperoxidase (MPO). As MPO is upregulated in activated
brain microglia cells of PD patients and in MPTP animal models, the conditions
for metabolic activation of apocynin and inhibition of microglia NADPH oxidase
are in place. Marmoset monkeys received oral apocynin (100 mg/kg; p.o.) (n = 5)
or Gum Arabica (controls; n = 5) three times daily until the end of the study,
starting 1 week before PD induction with MPTP (1 mg/kg s.c. for 8 days).
Parkinsonian symptoms, motor function, home-cage activity and body weight were
monitored to assess the disease development and severity. Post-mortem numbers of 
the tyrosine hydroxylase expressing DA neurons in the substantia nigra were
counted. During the MPTP injections, apocynin limited the body weight loss and
relieved parkinsonian symptoms compared to controls (Linear regression, P < 0.05)
indicating a reduction of disease progression. During the last test week,
apocynin also improved the hand-eye coordination performance compared with
vehicle treatment (resp. 39.3 ± 4.5 % and 17.7 ± 6.7 %; P = 0.048) and improved
the home cage activity with 32 % (P = 0.029), indicating anti-Parkinson efficacy.
Apocynin also increased the number of surviving DA neurons in MPTP-treated
marmosets with 8.5 % (P = 0.059), indicating a tendency towards a neuroprotective
efficacy. In conclusion, compensation for the loss of DA and its metabolite HVA
by apocynin mitigates the PD progression and limits the parkinsonian signs and
motor-function deterioration.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-013-9450-z 
PMID: 23504289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1585. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 Apr 12;54(4):2634-44. doi: 10.1167/iovs.12-10514.

Eyes in various species can shorten to compensate for myopic defocus.

Zhu X(1), McBrien NA, Smith EL 3rd, Troilo D, Wallman J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, City College of New York, New York, New York.

PURPOSE: We demonstrated that eyes of young animals of various species (chick,
tree shrew, marmoset, and rhesus macaque) can shorten in the axial dimension in
response to myopic defocus.
METHODS: Chicks wore positive or negative lenses over one eye for 3 days. Tree
shrews were measured during recovery from induced myopia after 5 days of
monocular deprivation for 1 to 9 days. Marmosets were measured during recovery
from induced myopia after monocular deprivation, or wearing negative lenses over 
one or both eyes, or from wearing positive lenses over one or both eyes. Rhesus
macaques were measured after recovery from induced myopia after monocular
deprivation, or wearing negative lenses over one or both eyes. Axial length was
measured with ultrasound biometry in all species.
RESULTS: Tree shrew eyes showed a strong trend to shorten axially to compensate
for myopic defocus. Of 34 eyes that recovered from deprivation-induced myopia for
various durations, 30 eyes (88%) shortened, whereas only 7 fellow eyes shortened.
In chicks, eyes wearing positive lenses reduced their rate of ocular elongation
by two-thirds, including 38.5% of eyes in which the axial length became shorter
than before. Evidence of axial shortening in rhesus macaque (40%) and marmoset
(6%) eyes also occurred when exposed to myopic defocus, although much less
frequently than that in eyes of tree shrews. The axial shortening was caused
mostly by the reduction in vitreous chamber depth.
CONCLUSIONS: Eyes of chick, tree shrew, marmoset, and rhesus macaque can shorten 
axially when presented with myopic defocus, whether the myopic defocus is created
by wearing positive lenses, or is the result of axial elongation of the eye
produced by prior negative lens wear or deprivation. This eye shortening
facilitates compensation for the imposed myopia. Implications for human myopia
control are significant.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-10514 
PMCID: PMC3630818
PMID: 23493295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

