

1588. Front Neural Circuits. 2013 Mar 8;7:31. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00031.
eCollection 2013.

Postnatal development of layer III pyramidal cells in the primary visual,
inferior temporal, and prefrontal cortices of the marmoset.

Oga T(1), Aoi H, Sasaki T, Fujita I, Ichinohe N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan ; Laboratory
for Cognitive Neuroscience, Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka
University Toyonaka, Osaka, Japan.

Abnormalities in the processes of the generation and/or pruning of dendritic
spines have been implicated in several mental disorders including autism and
schizophrenia. We have chosen to examine the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
as a primate model to explore the processes. As a first step, we studied the
postnatal development of basal dendritic trees and spines of layer-III pyramidal 
cells in the primary visual sensory cortex (V1), a visual association cortex
(inferior temporal area, TE), and a prefrontal cortex (area 12, PFC). Basal
dendrites in all three areas were longer in adulthood compared with those in the 
newborn. In particular, rapid dendritic growth occurred in both TE and PFC around
the second postnatal month. This early growth spurt resulted in much larger
dendritic arbors in TE and PFC than in V1. The density of the spines along the
dendrites peaked at 3 months of age and declined afterwards in all three areas:
the degree of spine pruning being greater in V1 than in TE and PFC. The estimates
of the total numbers of spines in the basal dendrites of a single pyramidal cell 
were larger in TE and PFC than in V1 throughout development and peaked around 3
months after birth in all three areas. These developmental profiles of spines and
dendrites will help in determining assay points for the screening of molecules
involved in spinogenesis and pruning in the marmoset cortex.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00031 
PMCID: PMC3592264
PMID: 23483808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1589. J Neurosci Methods. 2013 Apr 30;215(1):121-31. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2013.02.011. Epub 2013 Mar 6.

Structural and quantitative neuroimaging of the common marmoset monkey using a
clinical MRI system.

Helms G(1), Garea-Rodriguez E, Schlumbohm C, König J, Dechent P, Fuchs E, Wilke
M.

Author information: 
(1)Göttingen University Medical Center, Department of Cognitive Neurology,
Göttingen, Germany. ghelms@gwdg.de

Purpose was to adapt structural and quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
from humans to common marmoset monkeys on a clinical 3T scanner and to
demonstrate the value for translational research. Three-dimensional T1- and
T2-weighted MRI and gradient echo-based multi-parameter mapping was performed on 
nine adult animals using a wrist coil. Structural MRI was applied in a model of
targeted experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Magnetization transfer 
(MT) and T1 parameter maps were used to depict axon-rich cortical areas. After
intraveneous triple dose of gadobutrol, the excretion half-time was determined
from consecutive measurements of R1=1/T1. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was
performed at 1mm resolution. At 0.4mm resolution, total measurement time (30 min)
was compatible with injection anesthesia, permitting rapid screening and frequent
follow-up. Structural MRI depicted the EAE lesion in white matter. Quantitative
values of T1, MT, and R2* in marmoset brain were comparable to humans, except for
smaller R2* indicating lower iron content in basal ganglia. The middle temporal
V5 area and the cortical layer IV could be identified, but were considerably
better delineated when averaging two images at 0.33 mm resolution (70 min). A
similar distribution volume (23%), but a shorter excretion half time than in
humans (30 min) was observed. DTI was feasible only in larger structures, such as
major axonal tracts. High-resolution MRI of common marmosets proved feasible
using clinical MRI hardware. A rapid 3D examination protocol was established for 
screening under injection anesthesia, thus avoiding the adverse effects of
inhalation anesthesia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2013.02.011 
PMID: 23473795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

