

1590. J Med Primatol. 2013 Apr;42(2):79-88. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12038. Epub 2013 Jan 25.

Distribution and morphology of Clara cells in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Seidel V(1), Hoffmann R, Braun A, Seehase S, Knauf S, Kaup FJ, Bleyer M.

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this investigation was to define the phenotype and
spatial distribution of Clara cells within the respiratory tract of common
marmosets and to distinguish them from other non-ciliated cells (goblet cells,
mixed type secretory cells).
METHODS: Non-ciliated cells were identified immunohistochemically using
antibodies against Clara cell secretory protein and mucin 5AC. Transmission
electron microscopy and scanning electron microscopy were performed to
characterize Clara cells ultrastructurally.
RESULTS: Clara cells were present throughout the tracheobronchial tree, with
lowest numbers in the trachea and highest numbers in bronchioles. Goblet cells
and mixed type cells were scarce in the upper conducting airways and virtually
absent within bronchioles. Ultrastructurally, Clara cells showed typical apical
electron-dense granules and a prominent granular endoplasmatic reticulum.
CONCLUSIONS: Clara cells of common marmosets have species-specific morphological 
characteristics, which suggest grouping the common marmoset phenotypically
between primates and rodents.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12038 
PMID: 23473106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1591. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jun 1;246:125-31. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.02.019. Epub 2013
Feb 27.

Effects of lurasidone on executive function in common marmosets.

Murai T(1), Nakako T, Ikejiri M, Ishiyama T, Taiji M, Ikeda K.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Research Ikeda Laboratory, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd., 33-94
Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, Japan.

Cognitive impairment is one of the major symptoms of schizophrenia, and is
considered largely due to dysfunctions in the prefrontal cortex (PFC).
Lurasidone, a novel atypical antipsychotic agent with high binding affinity for
dopamine D2, serotonin 5-HT7, 5-HT2A and 5-HT1A receptors has been reported to
have superior efficacy in rodents' models of cognitive impairment. However, the
beneficial effect of lurasidone on cognitive impairment has not been evaluated in
non-human primates. In this study, we investigated the effect of lurasidone on
executive function, which is one of the cognitive domains, in common marmosets
and compared the results to those of other antipsychotics. The effects of
lurasidone, haloperidol, olanzapine, risperidone, quetiapine and clozapine on
executive function were evaluated in naïve marmosets using the object retrieval
with detours (ORD) task. Before drug treatment, marmosets' success rates in the
easy trial of the test were almost 90%. However, maximum success in the difficult
trial of the task reached only 50% after 8 days of training. Haloperidol,
olanzapine and risperidone decreased correct performance even in the easy trial
of the task. All drugs, except lurasidone, impaired success rate in the difficult
trial. On the other hand, lurasidone dose-dependently increased marmosets'
success rates in the difficult trial with significant effect at 10mg/kg. In
conclusion, we have shown in this study that lurasidone, unlike conventional
antipsychotics, improves cognition associated with executive function in common
marmosets. These findings suggest that lurasidone would be more useful for
treatment of schizophrenia cognitive impairment than other antipsychotics.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.02.019 
PMID: 23454675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

