

1594. J Neurosci. 2013 Feb 27;33(9):3891-904. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3437-12.2013.

Linear processing of interaural level difference underlies spatial tuning in the 
nucleus of the brachium of the inferior colliculus.

Slee SJ(1), Young ED.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering Department, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA. sslee1@jhmi.edu

The spatial location of sounds is an important aspect of auditory perception, but
the ways in which space is represented are not fully understood. No space map has
been found within the primary auditory pathway. However, a space map has been
found in the nucleus of the brachium of the inferior colliculus (BIN), which
provides a major auditory projection to the superior colliculus. We measured the 
spectral processing underlying auditory spatial tuning in the BIN of
unanesthetized marmoset monkeys. Because neurons in the BIN respond poorly to
tones and are broadly tuned, we used a broadband stimulus with random spectral
shapes (RSSs) from which both spatial receptive fields and frequency sensitivity 
can be derived. Responses to virtual space (VS) stimuli, based on the animal's
own ear acoustics, were compared with the predictions of a weight-function model 
of responses to the RSS stimuli. First-order (linear) weight functions had broad 
spectral tuning (approximately three octaves) and were excitatory in the
contralateral ear, inhibitory in the ipsilateral ear, and biased toward high
frequencies. Responses to interaural time differences and spectral cues were
relatively weak. In cross-validation tests, the first-order RSS model accurately 
predicted the measured VS tuning curves in the majority of neurons, but was
inaccurate in 25% of neurons. In some cases, second-order weighting functions led
to significant improvements. Finally, we found a significant correlation between 
the degree of binaural weight asymmetry and the best azimuth. Overall, the
results suggest that linear processing of interaural level difference underlies
spatial tuning in the BIN.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3437-12.2013 
PMCID: PMC3613225
PMID: 23447600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1595. Am J Primatol. 2013 May;75(5):500-8. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22126. Epub 2013 Feb 27.

Development of metabolic function biomarkers in the common marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Colman RJ, Tardif SD, Sosa ME, Wegner FH, Wittwer DJ, Shrestha H.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Metabolic assessment of a non-human primate model of metabolic syndrome and
obesity requires the necessary biomarkers specific to the species. While the
rhesus monkey has a number of specific assays for assessing metabolic syndrome,
the marmoset does not. Furthermore, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has 
a small blood volume that necessitates using a single blood volume for multiple
analyses. The common marmoset holds a great potential as an alternative primate
model for the study of human disease but assay methods need to be developed and
validated for the biomarkers of metabolic syndrome. Here we report on the
adaptation, development, and validation of commercially available immunoassays
for common marmoset samples in small volumes. We have performed biological
validations for insulin, adiponectin, leptin, and ghrelin to demonstrate the use 
of these biomarkers in examining metabolic syndrome and other related diseases in
the common marmoset.

Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22126 
PMCID: PMC3771328
PMID: 23447060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

