

1595. Am J Primatol. 2013 May;75(5):500-8. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22126. Epub 2013 Feb 27.

Development of metabolic function biomarkers in the common marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Colman RJ, Tardif SD, Sosa ME, Wegner FH, Wittwer DJ, Shrestha H.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Metabolic assessment of a non-human primate model of metabolic syndrome and
obesity requires the necessary biomarkers specific to the species. While the
rhesus monkey has a number of specific assays for assessing metabolic syndrome,
the marmoset does not. Furthermore, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has 
a small blood volume that necessitates using a single blood volume for multiple
analyses. The common marmoset holds a great potential as an alternative primate
model for the study of human disease but assay methods need to be developed and
validated for the biomarkers of metabolic syndrome. Here we report on the
adaptation, development, and validation of commercially available immunoassays
for common marmoset samples in small volumes. We have performed biological
validations for insulin, adiponectin, leptin, and ghrelin to demonstrate the use 
of these biomarkers in examining metabolic syndrome and other related diseases in
the common marmoset.

Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22126 
PMCID: PMC3771328
PMID: 23447060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1596. Toxicol Pathol. 2013;41(8):1106-15. doi: 10.1177/0192623313478206. Epub 2013 Feb 
27.

Morphological study of progressive glomerulonephropathy in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Yamada N(1), Sato J, Kanno T, Wako Y, Tsuchitani M.

Author information: 
(1)1Pathology Department, Kashima Laboratory, Nonclinical Research Center,
Mitsubishi Chemical Medience Corporation, Ibaraki, Japan.

Spontaneous progressive glomerulonephropathy often occurs in common marmosets.
However, there are few detailed reports concerning the age-related progressive
process of glomerular changes. We discuss the glomerular changes in the early
stage and the progressive changes in the advanced stage of nephropathy. We
investigated the kidneys of common marmosets (2-11 years old; 9 males and 12
females) using hematoxylin and eosin, periodic acid-Schiff, periodic
acid-methenamine-silver, and Masson's trichrome (MT) stains and a transmission
electron microscope. There was no remarkable change in urine cytology,
hematology, or blood chemistry. In the early stage of nephropathy, effacement of 
podocyte foot processes was observed ultrastructurally even though there were no 
marked glomerular lesions in the light microscopy. Subsequently, mesangial
proliferation occurred from the hilar to peripheral side along the tuft. In the
middle stage, red deposits were visible at the glomerular basement membrane (GBM)
and the mesangial region directly under the GBM (paramesangial area) with the MT 
stain. Electron dense deposits were seen at the same area. In the advanced stage,
the irregularity became prominent with or without dense deposits. It is necessary
to investigate in detail whether the change of podocyte in the early stage was
immuno-mediated or due to podocyte failure.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623313478206 
PMID: 23446006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

