

1596. Toxicol Pathol. 2013;41(8):1106-15. doi: 10.1177/0192623313478206. Epub 2013 Feb 
27.

Morphological study of progressive glomerulonephropathy in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Yamada N(1), Sato J, Kanno T, Wako Y, Tsuchitani M.

Author information: 
(1)1Pathology Department, Kashima Laboratory, Nonclinical Research Center,
Mitsubishi Chemical Medience Corporation, Ibaraki, Japan.

Spontaneous progressive glomerulonephropathy often occurs in common marmosets.
However, there are few detailed reports concerning the age-related progressive
process of glomerular changes. We discuss the glomerular changes in the early
stage and the progressive changes in the advanced stage of nephropathy. We
investigated the kidneys of common marmosets (2-11 years old; 9 males and 12
females) using hematoxylin and eosin, periodic acid-Schiff, periodic
acid-methenamine-silver, and Masson's trichrome (MT) stains and a transmission
electron microscope. There was no remarkable change in urine cytology,
hematology, or blood chemistry. In the early stage of nephropathy, effacement of 
podocyte foot processes was observed ultrastructurally even though there were no 
marked glomerular lesions in the light microscopy. Subsequently, mesangial
proliferation occurred from the hilar to peripheral side along the tuft. In the
middle stage, red deposits were visible at the glomerular basement membrane (GBM)
and the mesangial region directly under the GBM (paramesangial area) with the MT 
stain. Electron dense deposits were seen at the same area. In the advanced stage,
the irregularity became prominent with or without dense deposits. It is necessary
to investigate in detail whether the change of podocyte in the early stage was
immuno-mediated or due to podocyte failure.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623313478206 
PMID: 23446006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1597. J Evol Biol. 2013 Apr;26(4):810-9. doi: 10.1111/jeb.12097. Epub 2013 Feb 26.

Parallel episodes of phyletic dwarfism in callitrichid and cheirogaleid primates.

Montgomery SH(1), Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2
3EJ, UK. stephen.montgomery@cantab.net

The Callitrichidae are the smallest anthropoids, whereas the Cheirogaleidae
include the smallest of all primates. Using species-level analyses, we show that 
these are derived conditions; both neonatal and adult body mass decreased in a
gradual, phyletic manner in parallel across callitrichids, and across
cheirogaleids. We identify lineages with particularly rapid decreases and
highlight the pygmy marmoset, Callithrix pygmaea, as a phenotypic outlier. The
life-history traits associated with body-mass reduction in each clade suggest
that the convergent evolution of small body size was achieved by changes in
different ontogenetic stages. Body-size reduction in callitrichids appears to be 
almost exclusively due to alterations in prenatal growth rate, whereas body-size 
reduction in cheirogaleids may have been largely due to reduced duration of
growth phases. Finally, we use these results to discuss some of the debates
surrounding the evolution of Homo floresiensis and suggest potential parallels
between the evolution of H. floresiensis and callitrichids.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Evolutionary Biology © 2013 European Society For
Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.12097 
PMID: 23442013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

