

1597. J Evol Biol. 2013 Apr;26(4):810-9. doi: 10.1111/jeb.12097. Epub 2013 Feb 26.

Parallel episodes of phyletic dwarfism in callitrichid and cheirogaleid primates.

Montgomery SH(1), Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2
3EJ, UK. stephen.montgomery@cantab.net

The Callitrichidae are the smallest anthropoids, whereas the Cheirogaleidae
include the smallest of all primates. Using species-level analyses, we show that 
these are derived conditions; both neonatal and adult body mass decreased in a
gradual, phyletic manner in parallel across callitrichids, and across
cheirogaleids. We identify lineages with particularly rapid decreases and
highlight the pygmy marmoset, Callithrix pygmaea, as a phenotypic outlier. The
life-history traits associated with body-mass reduction in each clade suggest
that the convergent evolution of small body size was achieved by changes in
different ontogenetic stages. Body-size reduction in callitrichids appears to be 
almost exclusively due to alterations in prenatal growth rate, whereas body-size 
reduction in cheirogaleids may have been largely due to reduced duration of
growth phases. Finally, we use these results to discuss some of the debates
surrounding the evolution of Homo floresiensis and suggest potential parallels
between the evolution of H. floresiensis and callitrichids.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Evolutionary Biology © 2013 European Society For
Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.12097 
PMID: 23442013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1598. Int J Exp Pathol. 2013 Apr;94(2):156-68. doi: 10.1111/iep.12018. Epub 2013 Feb
27.

Experimental respiratory Marburg virus haemorrhagic fever infection in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Smither SJ(1), Nelson M, Eastaugh L, Laws TR, Taylor C, Smith SA, Salguero FJ,
Lever MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Dstl, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire,
UK.

Marburg virus causes a highly infectious and lethal haemorrhagic fever in
primates and may be exploited as a potential biothreat pathogen. To combat the
infection and threat of Marburg haemorrhagic fever, there is a need to develop
and license appropriate medical countermeasures. To determine whether the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) would be an appropriate model to assess therapies
against Marburg haemorrhagic fever, initial susceptibility, lethality and
pathogenesis studies were performed. Low doses of virus, between 4 and 28 TCID50 
, were sufficient to cause a lethal, reproducible infection. Animals became
febrile between days 5 and 6, maintaining a high fever before succumbing to
disease between 8 and 11 days postchallenge. Typical signs of Marburg virus
infection were observed including haemorrhaging and a transient rash. In
pathogenesis studies, virus was isolated from the animals' lungs from day 3
postchallenge and from the liver, spleen and blood from day 5 postchallenge.
Early signs of histopathology were apparent in the kidney and liver from day 3.
The most striking features were observed in animals exhibiting severe clinical
signs, which included high viral titres in all organs, with the highest levels in
the blood, increased levels in liver function enzymes and blood clotting times,
decreased levels in platelets, multifocal moderate-to-severe hepatitis and
perivascular oedema.

© 2013 Crown copyright. International Journal of Experimental Pathology © 2013
International Journal of Experimental Pathology.

DOI: 10.1111/iep.12018 
PMCID: PMC3607144
PMID: 23441639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

