

1598. Int J Exp Pathol. 2013 Apr;94(2):156-68. doi: 10.1111/iep.12018. Epub 2013 Feb
27.

Experimental respiratory Marburg virus haemorrhagic fever infection in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Smither SJ(1), Nelson M, Eastaugh L, Laws TR, Taylor C, Smith SA, Salguero FJ,
Lever MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Dstl, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire,
UK.

Marburg virus causes a highly infectious and lethal haemorrhagic fever in
primates and may be exploited as a potential biothreat pathogen. To combat the
infection and threat of Marburg haemorrhagic fever, there is a need to develop
and license appropriate medical countermeasures. To determine whether the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) would be an appropriate model to assess therapies
against Marburg haemorrhagic fever, initial susceptibility, lethality and
pathogenesis studies were performed. Low doses of virus, between 4 and 28 TCID50 
, were sufficient to cause a lethal, reproducible infection. Animals became
febrile between days 5 and 6, maintaining a high fever before succumbing to
disease between 8 and 11 days postchallenge. Typical signs of Marburg virus
infection were observed including haemorrhaging and a transient rash. In
pathogenesis studies, virus was isolated from the animals' lungs from day 3
postchallenge and from the liver, spleen and blood from day 5 postchallenge.
Early signs of histopathology were apparent in the kidney and liver from day 3.
The most striking features were observed in animals exhibiting severe clinical
signs, which included high viral titres in all organs, with the highest levels in
the blood, increased levels in liver function enzymes and blood clotting times,
decreased levels in platelets, multifocal moderate-to-severe hepatitis and
perivascular oedema.

© 2013 Crown copyright. International Journal of Experimental Pathology © 2013
International Journal of Experimental Pathology.

DOI: 10.1111/iep.12018 
PMCID: PMC3607144
PMID: 23441639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1599. Horm Behav. 2013 Apr;63(4):551-8. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2013.02.006. Epub 2013 Feb
21.

Post-partum variation in the expression of paternal care is unrelated to urinary 
steroid metabolites in marmoset fathers.

Cavanaugh J(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska, Omaha, NE 68182, USA. jonryancavanaug@unomaha.edu

The organization and activation of maternal care are known to be highly regulated
by hormones and there is growing evidence that expression of paternal care is
also related to endocrine substrates. We examined the relationship between
paternal behavior and steroid hormones in marmoset fathers (Callithrix geoffroyi)
and evaluated whether hormone-paternal behavior relationships were altered by
previous offspring-care experience in males. Based on previous findings, we
predicted that testosterone, estradiol, and cortisol would decrease following the
birth of offspring and would be lowest during the period of maximal infant
carrying. Furthermore, we predicted that post-partum changes in carrying effort
and hormone levels would be influenced by the level of offspring-care experience.
Carrying effort and other paternal care behaviors underwent temporal changes over
the post-partum period, but these patterns were not related to variation in
hormone concentrations over the same period. There was a limited effect of
offspring-care experience on hormone concentrations, but experience was found to 
play a role in the expression of paternal care, with experienced fathers engaging
in significantly more infant allogrooming than inexperienced fathers.
Furthermore, inexperienced fathers increased the frequency of food sharing in
response to infant begging across the post-partum period, while experienced
fathers displayed consistently low levels. We posit that a combination of
experiential factors and an increased role for alloparents in offspring-care led 
to these changes. However, it appears that hormonal changes may not influence
paternal responsiveness in white-faced marmoset fathers and that hormone-paternal
behavior relationships are not critically dependent on a male's previous
offspring-care experience.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2013.02.006 
PMCID: PMC3746002
PMID: 23439223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

