

1599. Horm Behav. 2013 Apr;63(4):551-8. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2013.02.006. Epub 2013 Feb
21.

Post-partum variation in the expression of paternal care is unrelated to urinary 
steroid metabolites in marmoset fathers.

Cavanaugh J(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska, Omaha, NE 68182, USA. jonryancavanaug@unomaha.edu

The organization and activation of maternal care are known to be highly regulated
by hormones and there is growing evidence that expression of paternal care is
also related to endocrine substrates. We examined the relationship between
paternal behavior and steroid hormones in marmoset fathers (Callithrix geoffroyi)
and evaluated whether hormone-paternal behavior relationships were altered by
previous offspring-care experience in males. Based on previous findings, we
predicted that testosterone, estradiol, and cortisol would decrease following the
birth of offspring and would be lowest during the period of maximal infant
carrying. Furthermore, we predicted that post-partum changes in carrying effort
and hormone levels would be influenced by the level of offspring-care experience.
Carrying effort and other paternal care behaviors underwent temporal changes over
the post-partum period, but these patterns were not related to variation in
hormone concentrations over the same period. There was a limited effect of
offspring-care experience on hormone concentrations, but experience was found to 
play a role in the expression of paternal care, with experienced fathers engaging
in significantly more infant allogrooming than inexperienced fathers.
Furthermore, inexperienced fathers increased the frequency of food sharing in
response to infant begging across the post-partum period, while experienced
fathers displayed consistently low levels. We posit that a combination of
experiential factors and an increased role for alloparents in offspring-care led 
to these changes. However, it appears that hormonal changes may not influence
paternal responsiveness in white-faced marmoset fathers and that hormone-paternal
behavior relationships are not critically dependent on a male's previous
offspring-care experience.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2013.02.006 
PMCID: PMC3746002
PMID: 23439223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1600. Epidemiol Infect. 2013 Jul;141(7):1552-61. doi: 10.1017/S0950268813000198. Epub
2013 Feb 22.

The emergence of wildlife species as a source of human rabies infection in
Brazil.

Favoretto SR(1), de Mattos CC, de Mattos CA, Campos AC, Sacramento DR, Durigon
EL.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Pasteur de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Forty-five human rabies virus isolates from a wide geographical area of Brazil
were characterized using an anti-nucleoprotein monoclonal antibody panel and by
partial nucleotide sequencing analysis of the nucleoprotein gene. Three major
antigenic groups related to the antigenic variants maintained in domestic dogs,
vampire bats and marmosets were identified. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that
the viruses from dog-related cases segregated into four sister clades: three
associated with dog-endemic cycles in Brazil and one with the crab-eating fox
cycle in the northeastern region of the country. The vampire bat- and
marmoset-related viruses formed two independent groups. The topology of these
clades was conserved when these samples were compared to virus representatives of
the currently reported rabies endemic cycles in the Americas. These results
indicated the presence of multiple endemic transmission cycles maintained in four
different reservoirs, domestic dogs, crab-eating foxes, vampire bats and
marmosets, which are being transmitted directly to humans and should be
considered as a high-risk for rabies infection.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268813000198 
PMID: 23433340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

