

1600. Epidemiol Infect. 2013 Jul;141(7):1552-61. doi: 10.1017/S0950268813000198. Epub
2013 Feb 22.

The emergence of wildlife species as a source of human rabies infection in
Brazil.

Favoretto SR(1), de Mattos CC, de Mattos CA, Campos AC, Sacramento DR, Durigon
EL.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Pasteur de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Forty-five human rabies virus isolates from a wide geographical area of Brazil
were characterized using an anti-nucleoprotein monoclonal antibody panel and by
partial nucleotide sequencing analysis of the nucleoprotein gene. Three major
antigenic groups related to the antigenic variants maintained in domestic dogs,
vampire bats and marmosets were identified. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that
the viruses from dog-related cases segregated into four sister clades: three
associated with dog-endemic cycles in Brazil and one with the crab-eating fox
cycle in the northeastern region of the country. The vampire bat- and
marmoset-related viruses formed two independent groups. The topology of these
clades was conserved when these samples were compared to virus representatives of
the currently reported rabies endemic cycles in the Americas. These results
indicated the presence of multiple endemic transmission cycles maintained in four
different reservoirs, domestic dogs, crab-eating foxes, vampire bats and
marmosets, which are being transmitted directly to humans and should be
considered as a high-risk for rabies infection.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268813000198 
PMID: 23433340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1601. J Med Primatol. 2013 Jun;42(3):112-9. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12042. Epub 2013 Feb 21.

Medical treatment improves social behavior in a primate endometriosis model
(Callithrix jacchus).

Arnold C(1), Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, University of
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. einspanier@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de

BACKGROUND: As endometriosis is known to be very painful in humans, therapeutic
studies should consider pain-related aspects in experimental animals too. In a
previous study, we found that common marmosets suffering from endometriosis show 
remarkable deviations in social behavior and cognitive tasks.
METHODS: Female marmosets with endometriosis undergoing medical treatment were
tested vs. two control groups (healthy and endometriosis monkeys without
treatment) concerning behavioral aspects, cognitive skills, and mobility.
RESULTS: The treated monkeys performed significant more social and self-grooming,
comfort behavior and were more active than the untreated endometriosis monkeys.
The treated marmosets even returned to equal levels as their healthy
conspecifics. Cognitive and mobility tests revealed no significant differences.
CONCLUSIONS: A beneficial effect of the applied endometriosis medication on
behavioral impairments could be obtained. Including such measurements in
therapeutic research contributes to aspects of animal welfare and pain-relieving 
potential of the tested compound.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12042 
PMID: 23432639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

