

1605. Anim Cogn. 2013 Sep;16(5):773-88. doi: 10.1007/s10071-013-0611-5. Epub 2013 Feb
15.

Facial expressions in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and their use by
conspecifics.

Kemp C(1), Kaplan G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Science and
Technology, Faculty of Arts and Science, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2351, Australia. caralyn@kemputer.com.au

Facial expressions have been studied mainly in chimpanzees and have been shown to
be important social signals. In platyrrhine and strepsirrhine primates, it has
been doubted that facial expressions are differentiated enough, or the species
socially capable enough, for facial expressions to be part of their communication
system. However, in a series of experiments presenting olfactory, auditory and
visual stimuli, we found that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) displayed an 
unexpected variety of facial expressions. Especially, olfactory and auditory
stimuli elicited obvious facial displays (such as disgust), some of which are
reported here for the first time. We asked whether specific facial responses to
food and predator-related stimuli might act as social signals to conspecifics. We
recorded two contrasting facial expressions (fear and pleasure) as separate sets 
of video clips and then presented these to cage mates of those marmosets shown in
the images, while tempting the subject with food. Results show that the
expression of a fearful face on screen significantly reduced time spent near the 
food bowl compared to the duration when a face showing pleasure was screened.
This responsiveness to a cage mate's facial expressions suggests that the
evolution of facial signals may have occurred much earlier in primate evolution
than had been thought.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-013-0611-5 
PMID: 23412667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1606. Sci Rep. 2013;3:1287. doi: 10.1038/srep01287.

Airway gene transfer in a non-human primate: lentiviral gene expression in
marmoset lungs.

Farrow N(1), Miller D, Cmielewski P, Donnelley M, Bright R, Parsons DW.

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Women's and Children's Health Network, North
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Genetic therapies for cystic fibrosis (CF) must be assessed for safety and
efficacy, so testing in a non-human primate (NHP) model is invaluable. In this
pilot study we determined if the conducting airways of marmosets (n = 2) could be
transduced using an airway pre-treatment followed by an intratracheal bolus dose 
of a VSV-G pseudotyped HIV-1 based lentiviral (LV) vector (LacZ reporter). LacZ
gene expression (X-gal) was assessed after 7 days and found primarily in
conducting airway epithelia as well as in alveolar regions. The LacZ gene was not
detected in liver or spleen via qPCR. Vector p24 protein bio-distribution into
blood was transient. Dosing was well tolerated. This preliminary study confirmed 
the transducibility of CF-relevant airway cell types. The marmoset is a promising
NHP model for testing and translating genetic treatments for CF airway disease
towards clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1038/srep01287 
PMCID: PMC3573341
PMID: 23412644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

