

1606. Sci Rep. 2013;3:1287. doi: 10.1038/srep01287.

Airway gene transfer in a non-human primate: lentiviral gene expression in
marmoset lungs.

Farrow N(1), Miller D, Cmielewski P, Donnelley M, Bright R, Parsons DW.

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Women's and Children's Health Network, North
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Genetic therapies for cystic fibrosis (CF) must be assessed for safety and
efficacy, so testing in a non-human primate (NHP) model is invaluable. In this
pilot study we determined if the conducting airways of marmosets (n = 2) could be
transduced using an airway pre-treatment followed by an intratracheal bolus dose 
of a VSV-G pseudotyped HIV-1 based lentiviral (LV) vector (LacZ reporter). LacZ
gene expression (X-gal) was assessed after 7 days and found primarily in
conducting airway epithelia as well as in alveolar regions. The LacZ gene was not
detected in liver or spleen via qPCR. Vector p24 protein bio-distribution into
blood was transient. Dosing was well tolerated. This preliminary study confirmed 
the transducibility of CF-relevant airway cell types. The marmoset is a promising
NHP model for testing and translating genetic treatments for CF airway disease
towards clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1038/srep01287 
PMCID: PMC3573341
PMID: 23412644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1607. Cell Immunol. 2012 Dec;280(2):132-7. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2012.12.002. Epub
2012 Dec 19.

An assessment of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) γ9(+) T cells and their
response to phosphoantigen in vitro.

Rowland CA(1), Laws TR, Oyston PC.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Dstl Porton Down, Salisbury SP4 0JQ, UK.
carowland@dstl.gov.uk

γ9δ2 T cells are a primate-specific γδ T cell subtype that expand and become
activated during infection, responding directly to phosphoantigens which are
by-products of essential metabolic pathways in both bacteria and mammals.
Analogues of natural phosphoantigens have been developed as potential
immunotherapeutics for treatment of tumours and infectious diseases. Several
non-human primate models have been used in preclinical studies, however, little
is known about marmoset γ9δ2 T cell responses. We identified γ9(+) T cells in
various tissues in the marmoset and determined that these cells respond to
phosphoantigen in a similar manner to human γ9δ2 T cells in vitro. Both human
γ9δ2 T cells and marmoset γ9(+) T cells were able to reduce growth of the
intracellular bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei in vitro following expansion
with phosphoantigen. This suggests that the marmoset is an appropriate model for 
examining the immunotherapeutic potential of compounds which target γ9δ2 T cells.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2012.12.002 
PMID: 23399838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

