

1608. Biochem Pharmacol. 2013 Apr 15;85(8):1182-94. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.01.024.
Epub 2013 Feb 5.

Characterization of marmoset CYP2B6: cDNA cloning, protein expression and
enzymatic functions.

Mayumi K(1), Hanioka N, Masuda K, Koeda A, Naito S, Miyata A, Narimatsu S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Health Chemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, Okayama, Japan.

The common marmoset is a promising species for evaluating the safety of drug
candidates. To further understand the capacity for drug metabolism in marmosets, 
a cDNA encoding a CYP2B enzyme was cloned from the total RNA fraction of marmoset
liver by 3'- and 5'-RACE methods. Nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequences
showed 90.8 and 86.2% identity, respectively, with human CYP2B6. The marmoset
CYP2B6 (marCYP2B6) protein was expressed in insect cells, and its enzymatic
properties were compared with those of human (humCYP2B6) and cynomolgus monkey
(cynCYP2B6) orthologs in liver and insect cell microsomes. Enzymatic functions
were examined for the oxidation of 7-ethoxy-4-(trifluoromethyl)coumarin (7-ETC), 
bupropion (BUP) and efavirenz (EFV). The kinetic profiles for the oxidation of
the three substrates by liver microsomal fractions were similar between humans
and cynomolgus monkeys (biphasic for 7-ETC and monophasic for BUP and EFV), but
that of marmosets was unique (monophasic for 7-ETC and biphasic for BUP and EFV).
Recombinant enzymes, humCYP2B6 and cynCYP2B6, also yielded similar kinetic
profiles for the oxidation of the three substrates, whereas marCYP2B6 showed
activity only for 7-ETC hydroxylation. In silico docking simulations suggested
that two amino acid residues, Val-114 and Leu-367, affect the activity of
marCYP2B6. In fact, a marCYP2B6 mutant with substitutions V114I and L367V
exhibited BUP hydroxylase activity that was 4-fold higher than that of humCYP2B6,
while its EFV 8-hydroxylase activity was only 10% that of the human enzyme. These
results indicate that the amino acids at positions 114 and 367 affect the
enzymatic capacity of marmoset CYP2B6.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.01.024 
PMID: 23395694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1609. PLoS Pathog. 2013 Jan;9(1):e1003138. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003138. Epub 2013
Jan 31.

Novel marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of human Herpesvirus 6A and 6B
infections: immunologic, virologic and radiologic characterization.

Leibovitch E(1), Wohler JE, Cummings Macri SM, Motanic K, Harberts E, Gaitán MI, 
Maggi P, Ellis M, Westmoreland S, Silva A, Reich DS, Jacobson S.

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology Section, Neuroimmunology Branch, NINDS/NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland, United States of America.

Human Herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) is a ubiquitous virus with an estimated
seroprevalence of 95% in the adult population. HHV-6 is associated with several
neurologic disorders, including multiple sclerosis, an inflammatory demyelinating
disease affecting the CNS. Animal models of HHV-6 infection would help clarify
its role in human disease but have been slow to develop because rodents lack
CD46, the receptor for cellular entry. Therefore, we investigated the effects of 
HHV-6 infections in a non-human primate, the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. 
We inoculated a total of 12 marmosets with HHV-6A and HHV-6B intravenously and
HHV-6A intranasally. Animals were monitored for 25 weeks post-inoculation
clinically, immunologically and by MRI. Marmosets inoculated with HHV-6A
intravenously exhibited neurologic symptoms and generated virus-specific antibody
responses, while those inoculated intravenously with HHV-6B were asymptomatic and
generated comparatively lower antibody responses. Viral DNA was detected at a low
frequency in paraffin-embedded CNS tissue of a subset of marmosets inoculated
with HHV-6A and HHV-6B intravenously. When different routes of HHV-6A inoculation
were compared, intravenous inoculation resulted in virus-specific antibody
responses and infrequent detection of viral DNA in the periphery, while
intranasal inoculation resulted in negligible virus-specific antibody responses
and frequent detection of viral DNA in the periphery. Moreover, marmosets
inoculated with HHV-6A intravenously exhibited neurologic symptoms, while
marmosets inoculated with HHV-6A intranasally were asymptomatic. We demonstrate
that a marmoset model of HHV-6 infection can serve to further define the
contribution of this ubiquitous virus to human neurologic disorders.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003138 
PMCID: PMC3561285
PMID: 23382677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

