

1609. PLoS Pathog. 2013 Jan;9(1):e1003138. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003138. Epub 2013
Jan 31.

Novel marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of human Herpesvirus 6A and 6B
infections: immunologic, virologic and radiologic characterization.

Leibovitch E(1), Wohler JE, Cummings Macri SM, Motanic K, Harberts E, Gaitán MI, 
Maggi P, Ellis M, Westmoreland S, Silva A, Reich DS, Jacobson S.

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology Section, Neuroimmunology Branch, NINDS/NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland, United States of America.

Human Herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) is a ubiquitous virus with an estimated
seroprevalence of 95% in the adult population. HHV-6 is associated with several
neurologic disorders, including multiple sclerosis, an inflammatory demyelinating
disease affecting the CNS. Animal models of HHV-6 infection would help clarify
its role in human disease but have been slow to develop because rodents lack
CD46, the receptor for cellular entry. Therefore, we investigated the effects of 
HHV-6 infections in a non-human primate, the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. 
We inoculated a total of 12 marmosets with HHV-6A and HHV-6B intravenously and
HHV-6A intranasally. Animals were monitored for 25 weeks post-inoculation
clinically, immunologically and by MRI. Marmosets inoculated with HHV-6A
intravenously exhibited neurologic symptoms and generated virus-specific antibody
responses, while those inoculated intravenously with HHV-6B were asymptomatic and
generated comparatively lower antibody responses. Viral DNA was detected at a low
frequency in paraffin-embedded CNS tissue of a subset of marmosets inoculated
with HHV-6A and HHV-6B intravenously. When different routes of HHV-6A inoculation
were compared, intravenous inoculation resulted in virus-specific antibody
responses and infrequent detection of viral DNA in the periphery, while
intranasal inoculation resulted in negligible virus-specific antibody responses
and frequent detection of viral DNA in the periphery. Moreover, marmosets
inoculated with HHV-6A intravenously exhibited neurologic symptoms, while
marmosets inoculated with HHV-6A intranasally were asymptomatic. We demonstrate
that a marmoset model of HHV-6 infection can serve to further define the
contribution of this ubiquitous virus to human neurologic disorders.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003138 
PMCID: PMC3561285
PMID: 23382677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1610. ILAR J. 2012;53(1):E31-42. doi: 10.1093/ilar.53.1.31.

Influence of animal species on secondary oxidant activation in serum exposed to
singlet oxygen.

Lhommeau I(1), Douillard S, Foursac A, Aillet L, Bigot E, Patrice T.

Author information: 
(1)Laser Department/Cancer Photobiology Laboratory, Laënnec Hospital, CHU de
Nantes, 44093, Nantes, France.

Singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) produced during inflammatory reactions and during
photodynamic therapy deactivates by producing in tissues secondary reactive
oxygen species and peroxides (SOS) as well as other degradation products. We
investigated the influence of animal species on SOS production secondary to
standardized (1)O(2) production by performing in vitro experiments with rose
bengal as the (1)O(2) producer, human serum (HS) as a control, sera derived from 
various animal species, and dichloro-dihydro-fluorescein as a nonspecific marker 
that becomes fluorescent when oxidized. The overall SOS production in HS from a
presumed healthy cohort of 53 donors (31 males and 22 females) gave a mean
"normal" value of 0.91 compared with a previous pool of 75 male sera samples. SOS
production after a photo-reaction was two or four times lower in HS than in fetal
calf serum or mice sera, respectively. In mice, the "nude" characteristic
increased even more than in the SOS production. In the Aves order, this
production appeared to be distributed randomly according to the number of
branches after the appearance of Amniotas. For primates, SOS production appeared 
to decrease linearly with the number of branches (R(2) = 0.98). Adding
hemolysates from complete bloods to the corresponding sera induced an increase in
SOS production in all species, proportional to the production in sera. These
findings should be kept in mind when interpreting results from studies of
secondary reactive oxygen species-induced pathways following (1)O(2) production, 
regardless of its origin.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.53.1.31 
PMID: 23382269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

