

161. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Mar 22;22(6). pii: 3207. doi: 10.3390/ijms22063207.

SIRT1 Expression and Regulation in the Primate Testis.

Wahab F(1)(2), Rodriguez Polo I(2), Behr R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Pak-Austria Fachhochschule: Institute of
Applied Sciences and Technology, Mang, Haripur 22620, KP, Pakistan.
(2)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany.

The epigenetic mechanisms controlling germ cell development and differentiation
are still not well understood. Sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) is a nicotinamide adenosine
dinucleotide (NAD)-dependent histone deacetylase and belongs to the sirtuin
family of deacetylases. It catalyzes the removal of acetyl groups from a number
of protein substrates. Some studies reported a role of SIRT1 in the central and
peripheral regulation of reproduction in various non-primate species. However,
testicular SIRT1 expression and its possible role in the testis have not been
analyzed in primates. Here, we document expression of SIRT1 in testes of
different primates and some non-primate species. SIRT1 is expressed mainly in the
cells of seminiferous tubules, particularly in germ cells. The majority of
SIRT1-positive germ cells were in the meiotic and postmeiotic phase of
differentiation. However, SIRT1 expression was also observed in selected
premeiotic germ cells, i.e., spermatogonia. SIRT1 co-localized in spermatogonia
with irisin, an endocrine factor specifically expressed in primate spermatogonia.
In marmoset testicular explant cultures, SIRT1 transcript levels are upregulated 
by the addition of irisin as compared to untreated controls explants. Rhesus
macaques are seasonal breeders with high testicular activity in winter and low
testicular activity in summer. Of note, SIRT1 mRNA and SIRT1 protein expression
are changed between nonbreeding (low spermatogenesis) and breeding (high
spermatogenesis) season. Our data suggest that SIRT1 is a relevant factor for the
regulation of spermatogenesis in primates. Further mechanistic studies are
required to better understand the role of SIRT1 during spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22063207 
PMCID: PMC8004242
PMID: 33809872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Animals (Basel). 2021 Mar 30;11(4). pii: 963. doi: 10.3390/ani11040963.

Retrospective Analysis of the Effectiveness and Reversibility of Long-Acting
Contraception Etonogestrel (Implanon®) inCommon Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Roubos S(1), Louwerse AL(1), Langermans JAM(1)(2), Bakker J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
161, 2288GJ Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(2)Department Population Health Sciences, Animals in Science and Society, Faculty
of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht University, 3584 CM Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Contraception is an important population control method for the colony management
of primates housed in captivity. Etonogestrel (ENG) implants (i.e., Implanon®)
are a widely used progestin-based contraceptive in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with the theoretical advantages of being reversible and long-acting.
However, no dose and efficacy data are available yet. Therefore, data from 52
adult female marmosets contracepted with ENG (one-fourth or one-third of an
implant) housed at the Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands) over the past 18 years were analyzed. Using an electronic database, 
a retrospective longitudinal cohort study was conducted to calculate the
reproductive data before, during and after ENG use. The data show an
effectiveness in preventing pregnancy of 99%. The implant was effective within
one week after insertion. Unintended pregnancies did occur, but in 60% of these
cases, the animals were already pregnant at the time of implant insertion. In
these cases, healthy offspring were born despite the use of the implant. No
stillbirths, neonatal deaths or maternal deaths could be linked to ENG use. After
implant removal, 83% of the animals delivered healthy offspring. No difference in
contraception efficacy was observed between the use of one-fourth or one-third of
an implant. ENG achieved a contraceptive protection exceeding 99% and was shown
to be reversible concerning fertility. To our knowledge, this is the first
detailed analysis on the use of ENG in marmosets.

DOI: 10.3390/ani11040963 
PMCID: PMC8066542
PMID: 33808451 

