

1613. Nihon Shinkei Seishin Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2012 Nov;32(5-6):287-92.

[Restorative therapy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Aoki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)(Department of Neurology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, 1-1,
Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult onset neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by the death of upper and lower motor neurons. About 10% of all ALS
cases are familial; approximately 20% of familial ALS cases are caused by
mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene. We developed rats that
express a human SOD1 transgene with ALS-associated mutations, developing striking
motor neuron degeneration and paralysis. The larger size of this rat model as
compared with the ALS mice, will facilitate studies involving manipulations of
spinal fluid and the spinal cord. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is one of the
most potent survival-promoting factors for motor neurons. We administered human
recombinant HGF (hrHGF) by continuous intrathecal delivery to the transgenic rats
at the onset of paralysis for 4 weeks. Intrathecal administration of hrHGF
attenuated motor neuron degeneration and prolonged the duration of the disease by
63%. To translate this strategy to human treatment, we induced a contusive
cervical spinal cord injury in the common marmoset, a primate, and then
administered hrHGF intrathecally. The intrathecal administration of hrHGF
promoted functional recovery. These results prompted further clinical trials in
ALS using continuous intrathecal administration of hrHGF.


PMID: 23373317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1614. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2012;2012:4108-11. doi:
10.1109/EMBC.2012.6346870.

Brain-Machine Interface control of a robot arm using actor-critic rainforcement
learning.

Pohlmeyer EA(1), Mahmoudi B, Geng S, Prins N, Sanchez JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Miami University, Coral Gables, Fl
33146, USA.

Here we demonstrate how a marmoset monkey can use a reinforcement learning (RL)
Brain-Machine Interface (BMI) to effectively control the movements of a robot arm
for a reaching task. In this work, an actor-critic RL algorithm used neural
ensemble activity in the monkey's motor cortext to control the robot movements
during a two-target decision task. This novel approach to decoding offers unique 
advantages for BMI control applications. Compared to supervised learning decoding
methods, the actor-critic RL algorithm does not require an explicit set of
training data to create a static control model, but rather it incrementally
adapts the model parameters according to its current performance, in this case
requiring only a very basic feedback signal. We show how this algorithm achieved 
high performance when mapping the monkey's neural states (94%) to robot actions, 
and only needed to experience a few trials before obtaining accurate real-time
control of the robot arm. Since RL methods responsively adapt and adjust their
parameters, they can provide a method to create BMIs that are robust against
perturbations caused by changes in either the neural input space or the output
actions they generate under different task requirements or goals.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2012.6346870 
PMID: 23366831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

