

1614. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2012;2012:4108-11. doi:
10.1109/EMBC.2012.6346870.

Brain-Machine Interface control of a robot arm using actor-critic rainforcement
learning.

Pohlmeyer EA(1), Mahmoudi B, Geng S, Prins N, Sanchez JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Miami University, Coral Gables, Fl
33146, USA.

Here we demonstrate how a marmoset monkey can use a reinforcement learning (RL)
Brain-Machine Interface (BMI) to effectively control the movements of a robot arm
for a reaching task. In this work, an actor-critic RL algorithm used neural
ensemble activity in the monkey's motor cortext to control the robot movements
during a two-target decision task. This novel approach to decoding offers unique 
advantages for BMI control applications. Compared to supervised learning decoding
methods, the actor-critic RL algorithm does not require an explicit set of
training data to create a static control model, but rather it incrementally
adapts the model parameters according to its current performance, in this case
requiring only a very basic feedback signal. We show how this algorithm achieved 
high performance when mapping the monkey's neural states (94%) to robot actions, 
and only needed to experience a few trials before obtaining accurate real-time
control of the robot arm. Since RL methods responsively adapt and adjust their
parameters, they can provide a method to create BMIs that are robust against
perturbations caused by changes in either the neural input space or the output
actions they generate under different task requirements or goals.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2012.6346870 
PMID: 23366831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1615. J Pharmacol Sci. 2013;121(2):131-7. Epub 2013 Jan 31.

Involvement of the autonomic nervous system in diurnal variation of corrected QT 
intervals in common marmosets.

Honda M(1), Komatsu R, Isobe T, Tabo M, Ishikawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Research Division, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Komakado, Gotemba City,
Shizuoka, Japan. hondamsk@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Our previous study has shown that the corrected QT (QTc) interval of the
electrocardiogram is longer during the dark period than during the light period
in telemetered common marmosets. In the present study, we investigated the
involvement of sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous activities in the changes 
of QTc interval associated with the light-dark cycle.Telemetry transmitters were 
implanted in six common marmosets to continuously record the electrocardiogram.
The QT intervals obtained were corrected for the RR interval by applying
individual probabilistic QT-rate correction formulae. Power spectral analysis of 
heart rate variability was performed to quantify each autonomic nervous function.
Changes in QTc intervals and autonomic nervous tones were associated with the
light-dark cycle. Parasympathetic nervous activity and QTc intervals
significantly increased by approximately 10 ms during the dark period.Atropine, a
muscarinic receptor antagonist, suppressed the increased parasympathetic tone and
QTc prolongation during the dark period. In contrast, propranolol, a
Î²-adrenoceptor antagonist, decreased the sympathetic activity and increased QTc
intervals during the light period. These results suggest that the parasympathetic
nerve functions prolong QTc intervals during the dark period, while the
sympathetic nerve functions shorten them during the light period in common
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.12230fp 
PMID: 23363785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

