

1615. J Pharmacol Sci. 2013;121(2):131-7. Epub 2013 Jan 31.

Involvement of the autonomic nervous system in diurnal variation of corrected QT 
intervals in common marmosets.

Honda M(1), Komatsu R, Isobe T, Tabo M, Ishikawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Research Division, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Komakado, Gotemba City,
Shizuoka, Japan. hondamsk@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Our previous study has shown that the corrected QT (QTc) interval of the
electrocardiogram is longer during the dark period than during the light period
in telemetered common marmosets. In the present study, we investigated the
involvement of sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous activities in the changes 
of QTc interval associated with the light-dark cycle.Telemetry transmitters were 
implanted in six common marmosets to continuously record the electrocardiogram.
The QT intervals obtained were corrected for the RR interval by applying
individual probabilistic QT-rate correction formulae. Power spectral analysis of 
heart rate variability was performed to quantify each autonomic nervous function.
Changes in QTc intervals and autonomic nervous tones were associated with the
light-dark cycle. Parasympathetic nervous activity and QTc intervals
significantly increased by approximately 10 ms during the dark period.Atropine, a
muscarinic receptor antagonist, suppressed the increased parasympathetic tone and
QTc prolongation during the dark period. In contrast, propranolol, a
Î²-adrenoceptor antagonist, decreased the sympathetic activity and increased QTc
intervals during the light period. These results suggest that the parasympathetic
nerve functions prolong QTc intervals during the dark period, while the
sympathetic nerve functions shorten them during the light period in common
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.12230fp 
PMID: 23363785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1616. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e54667. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054667. Epub 2013 Jan 15.

Diversity of retinal ganglion cells identified by transient GFP transfection in
organotypic tissue culture of adult marmoset monkey retina.

Moritoh S(1), Komatsu Y, Yamamori T, Koizumi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, 
Myodaiji, Okazaki, Japan.

The mammalian retina has more diversity of neurons than scientists had once
believed in order to establish complicated vision processing. In the monkey
retina, morphological diversity of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) besides dominant
midget and parasol cells has been suggested. However, characteristic subtypes of 
RGCs in other species such as bistratified direction-selective ganglion cells
(DSGC) have not yet been identified. Increasing interest has been shown in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkey as a "super-model" of neuroscientific
research. Here, we established organotypic tissue culture of the adult marmoset
monkey retina with particle-mediated gene transfer of GFP to survey the
morphological diversity of RGCs. We successfully incubated adult marmoset monkey 
retinas for 2 to 4 days ex vivo for transient expression of GFP. We
morphologically examined 121 RGCs out of more than 3240 GFP-transfected cells in 
5 retinas. Among them, we identified monostratified or broadly stratified
ganglion cells (midget, parasol, sparse, recursive, thorny, and broad thorny
ganglion cells), and bistratified ganglion cells (recursive, large, and small
bistratified ganglion cells [blue-ON/yellow-OFF-like]). By this survey, we also
found a candidate for bistratified DSGC whose dendrites were well cofasciculated 
with ChAT-positive starburst dendrites, costratified with ON and OFF ChAT bands, 
and had honeycomb-shaped dendritic arbors morphologically similar to those in
rabbits. Our genetic engineering method provides a new approach to future
investigation for morphological and functional diversity of RGCs in the monkey
retina.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054667 
PMCID: PMC3545886
PMID: 23336011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

