

1616. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e54667. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054667. Epub 2013 Jan 15.

Diversity of retinal ganglion cells identified by transient GFP transfection in
organotypic tissue culture of adult marmoset monkey retina.

Moritoh S(1), Komatsu Y, Yamamori T, Koizumi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, 
Myodaiji, Okazaki, Japan.

The mammalian retina has more diversity of neurons than scientists had once
believed in order to establish complicated vision processing. In the monkey
retina, morphological diversity of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) besides dominant
midget and parasol cells has been suggested. However, characteristic subtypes of 
RGCs in other species such as bistratified direction-selective ganglion cells
(DSGC) have not yet been identified. Increasing interest has been shown in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkey as a "super-model" of neuroscientific
research. Here, we established organotypic tissue culture of the adult marmoset
monkey retina with particle-mediated gene transfer of GFP to survey the
morphological diversity of RGCs. We successfully incubated adult marmoset monkey 
retinas for 2 to 4 days ex vivo for transient expression of GFP. We
morphologically examined 121 RGCs out of more than 3240 GFP-transfected cells in 
5 retinas. Among them, we identified monostratified or broadly stratified
ganglion cells (midget, parasol, sparse, recursive, thorny, and broad thorny
ganglion cells), and bistratified ganglion cells (recursive, large, and small
bistratified ganglion cells [blue-ON/yellow-OFF-like]). By this survey, we also
found a candidate for bistratified DSGC whose dendrites were well cofasciculated 
with ChAT-positive starburst dendrites, costratified with ON and OFF ChAT bands, 
and had honeycomb-shaped dendritic arbors morphologically similar to those in
rabbits. Our genetic engineering method provides a new approach to future
investigation for morphological and functional diversity of RGCs in the monkey
retina.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054667 
PMCID: PMC3545886
PMID: 23336011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1617. Am J Primatol. 2013 Mar;75(3):212-21. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22077. Epub 2012 Sep 19.

The role of androgenic steroids in shaping social phenotypes across the lifespan 
in male marmosets (Callithrix spp.).

French JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182,
USA. jfrench@unomaha.edu

Steroid hormones, particularly androgens and their metabolic derivatives, play a 
prominent role in shaping morphological, behavioral, and social phenotypes in
many organisms, including primates. This paper reviews the endocrine correlates
of development in male marmoset monkeys of the genus Callithrix (C. kuhlii and C.
geoffroyi). A lifespan developmental perspective is adopted, in which our
knowledge of hormone effects and profiles from prenatal periods through old age
is described. Prenatal steroid hormones appear to play a prominent role in
shaping behavioral and morphological phenotypes both the prepartum and in the
early postpartum periods of life, with exposure to high gestational androgen
associated with reduced fetal growth and lower levels of juvenile play. Early
postnatal elevations in androgen levels in males are ubiquitous in Callithrix,
and play a role in the further differentiation of male genital morphology and
behavior. Changes in androgens as males approach puberty are similar to the
conventional primate pattern, and unlike in female marmosets, gonadal
steroidogenesis appears to be independent of social context. In adults, androgens
appear to be an important modulator of paternal responsiveness to infants, since 
androgens are low at times when males typically engage in maximal levels of care,
and fathers that care for offspring extensively appear to have lower androgen
levels than fathers that are less involved in offspring care. Finally, aging in
male marmosets is associated with reduced androgen levels. This reduction appears
to be attributable to deficits in central mechanisms, since experimental
induction and inhibition of gonadal steroid synthesis and release appears to be
normal in older males. Together, these results suggest a complex picture of
lifetime involvement of androgens in shaping marmoset phenotypes.

Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22077 
PMCID: PMC4036459
PMID: 23335110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

