

1621. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e53357. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053357. Epub 2012 Dec 28.

Responses of retinal ganglion cells to extracellular electrical stimulation, from
single cell to population: model-based analysis.

Tsai D(1), Chen S, Protti DA, Morley JW, Suaning GJ, Lovell NH.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), which survive in large numbers following
neurodegenerative diseases, could be stimulated with extracellular electric
pulses to elicit artificial percepts. How do the RGCs respond to electrical
stimulation at the sub-cellular level under different stimulus configurations,
and how does this influence the whole-cell response? At the population level, why
have experiments yielded conflicting evidence regarding the extent of passing
axon activation? We addressed these questions through simulations of
morphologically and biophysically detailed computational RGC models on high
performance computing clusters. We conducted the analyses on both large-field
RGCs and small-field midget RGCs. The latter neurons are unique to primates. We
found that at the single cell level the electric potential gradient in
conjunction with neuronal element excitability, rather than the electrode center 
location per se, determined the response threshold and latency. In addition,
stimulus positioning strongly influenced the location of RGC response initiation 
and subsequent activity propagation through the cellular structure. These
findings were robust with respect to inhomogeneous tissue resistivity
perpendicular to the electrode plane. At the population level, RGC cellular
structures gave rise to low threshold hotspots, which limited axonal and
multi-cell activation with threshold stimuli. Finally, due to variations in
neuronal element excitability over space, following supra-threshold stimulation
some locations favored localized activation of multiple cells, while others
favored axonal activation of cells over extended space.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053357 
PMCID: PMC3532448
PMID: 23285287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1622. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2013 Jan;150(1):21-8. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22110.

Body mass growth in common marmosets: toward a model of pediatric obesity.

Tardif SD(1), Power ML, Ross CN, Rutherford JN.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity & Aging Studies, University of Texas Health
Science Center, San Antonio, 78245, USA. tardif@uthscsa.edu

While much is known about adult obesity in nonhuman primates, very little is
known regarding development of childhood adiposity. As small monkeys that are
easy to handle and have a relatively fast life history, common marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) offer interesting opportunities to examine the question of
fat versus lean mass growth in a nonhuman primate. This article provides an
overview of our understanding of early life growth in mass in marmoset monkeys,
based primarily upon our past 20 years of research, culminating in our recent
findings on early life obesity in this species. Common marmosets display variance
in early life growth patterns that is related to both pre- and postnatal factors 
and the marmoset uterine environment is exquisitely designed to reflect resources
available for the gestation of multiple offspring, making them an interesting
model of developmental programming. We have demonstrated that obesity can be
generated in very early life in captive marmosets, with excess adiposity evident 
by one month of age, making this species a potentially valuable model in which to
study pediatric obesity and its sequelae. Birth weight is associated with
adiposity in animals vulnerable to obesity. Early life exposure to higher fat
diets enhances the chances of postweaning obesity development. However, overall
higher food consumption is also associated with obesity development at later
ages. One unexpected finding in our studies has been the relatively high body fat
percentage of neonatal (12-18%) marmosets suggesting that hypotheses regarding
the uniqueness of high human neonatal adiposity merit further examination.

Copyright Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22110 
PMCID: PMC3607500
PMID: 23283661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

