

1626. Am J Primatol. 2013 Apr;75(4):333-41. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22110. Epub 2012 Dec 13.

Use of alternative plant resources by common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in
the semi-arid caatinga scrub forests of northeastern Brazil.

Amora TD(1), Beltrão-Mendes R, Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Ecology and Conservation, Universidade Federal de Sergipe,
São Cristóvão, Brazil. tacyanaduarte@yahoo.com.br

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is amply distributed in the Brazilian
Northeast, but little is known of its ecology in the semi-arid Caatinga
scrublands. The present study provides the first detailed data on the composition
of the diet of C. jacchus in Caatinga ecosystems, derived from observations at
four sites in the state of Sergipe. While exudate sources were gouged at all four
sites in a manner typical of the species, fruit was the principal component of
the diet at the main study site during most months, and a number of unusual items
were eaten, including leaves, and the reproductive parts of cacti and bromeliads.
These plants are rarely recorded in marmoset diets, but are common in caatinga
habitats. Leaves were ingested during 5 of the 8 months monitored at the main
study site, reaching 39.74% of the diet in 1 month, and appeared to be an
alternative fallback food to plant exudates during periods when fruit was scarce.
Three species of cactus provided both flowers and fruits, while the terrestrial
bromeliad, Encholirium spectabile, provided nectar (30.81% of the diet in
November). Approximately half of the plant species (and three families)
identified in this study had not been recorded previously in the diet of
Callithrix. Overall, the data suggest that, while the marmosets exploit the same 
types of plant foods in the Caatinga, the resource base is quite distinct from
that of the Atlantic Forest. Other differences, such as relatively small groups
and large home ranges, may contribute to divergent ecological patterns, which
require more systematic investigation. Am. J. Primatol. 75:333-341, 2013. © 2012 
Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22110 
PMID: 23238956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1627. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):S10-1. doi: 10.1038/492S10a.

Comparative biology: Looking for a master switch.

Deweerdt S.

DOI: 10.1038/492S10a 
PMID: 23222666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

