

1627. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):S10-1. doi: 10.1038/492S10a.

Comparative biology: Looking for a master switch.

Deweerdt S.

DOI: 10.1038/492S10a 
PMID: 23222666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1628. J Neurosci. 2012 Nov 28;32(48):17073-85. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3269-12.2012.

The early maturation of visual cortical area MT is dependent on input from the
retinorecipient medial portion of the inferior pulvinar.

Warner CE(1), Kwan WC, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, 3800
Victoria, Australia.

The hierarchical development of the primate visual cortex and associated streams 
remains somewhat of a mystery. While anatomical, physiological, and psychological
studies have demonstrated the early maturation of the dorsal "where"/"how" or
motion cortical stream, little is known about the circuitry responsible. The
influence of the retinogeniculostriate pathway has been investigated, but little 
attention has been paid to the role of two more recently described disynaptic
retinothalamic projections to the middle temporal (MT) area, an early maturing
dorsal stream cortical field, and which bypass the primary visual cortex (V1).
These pathways are via the koniocellular layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus
(LGN) and the medial portion of the inferior pulvinar (PIm). Both have been
demonstrated in the adult nonhuman primate, but their influence during the
maturation of the visual cortex is unknown. We used a combination of neural
tracing and immunohistochemistry to follow the development of LGN and PIm inputs 
to area MT in the marmoset monkey. Our results revealed that the early maturation
of area MT is likely due to the disynaptic retinopulvinar input and not the
retinogeniculate input or the direct projection from V1. Furthermore, from soon
after birth to adulthood, there was a dynamic shift in the ratio of input from
these three structures to area MT, with an increasing dominance of the direct V1 
afference.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3269-12.2012 
PMCID: PMC6621860
PMID: 23197701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

