

1630. Cell Reprogram. 2012 Dec;14(6):485-96. doi: 10.1089/cell.2012.0036.

Induced pluripotent stem cells generated from adult bone marrow-derived cells of 
the nonhuman primate (Callithrix jacchus) using a novel quad-cistronic and
excisable lentiviral vector.

Wiedemann A(1), Hemmer K, Bernemann I, Göhring G, Pogozhykh O, Figueiredo C,
Glage S, Schambach A, Schwamborn JC, Blasczyk R, Müller T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Erratum in
    Cell Reprogram. 2013 Aug;15(4):337.

Regenerative medicine is in need of solid, large animal models as a link between 
rodents and humans to evaluate the functionality, immunogenicity, and clinical
safety of stem cell-derived cell types. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) 
is an excellent large animal model, genetically close to humans and readily used 
worldwide in clinical research. Until now, only two groups showed the generation 
of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from the common marmoset using
integrating retroviral vectors. Therefore, we reprogrammed bone marrow-derived
mesenchymal cells (MSCs) of adult marmosets in the presence of TAV, SB431542,
PD0325901, and ascorbic acid via a novel, excisable lentiviral spleen
focus-forming virus (SFFV)-driven quad-cistronic vector system (OCT3/4, KLF4,
SOX2, C-MYC). Endogenous pluripotency markers like OCT3/4, KLF4, SOX2, C-MYC,
LIN28, NANOG, and strong alkaline phosphatase signals were detected. Exogenous
genes were silenced and additionally the cassette was removed with a retroviral
Gag precursor system. The cell line could be cultured in absence of leukemia
inhibitory factor (LIF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and could be
successfully differentiated into embryoid bodies and teratomas with presence of
all three germ layers. Directed differentiation generated neural progenitors,
megakaryocytes, adipocytes, chondrocytes, and osteogenic cells. Thus, all
criteria for fully reprogrammed bone marrow-MSCs of a nonhuman primate with a
genetically sophisticated construct could be demonstrated. These cells will be a 
promising tool for future autologous transplantations.

DOI: 10.1089/cell.2012.0036 
PMID: 23194452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1631. Clin Exp Optom. 2013 May;96(3):259-66. doi: 10.1111/j.1444-0938.2012.00819.x.
Epub 2012 Nov 27.

Tracking blue cone signals in the primate brain.

Jayakumar J(1), Dreher B, Vidyasagar TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry & Vision Sciences and Melbourne Brain Centre, The
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

In this paper, we review the path taken by signals originating from the short
wavelength sensitive cones (S-cones) in Old World and New World primates. Two
types of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) carrying S-cone signals (blue-On and
blue-Off cells) project to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) in the
thalamus. In all primates, these S-cone signals are relayed through the
'dust-like' (konis in classical Greek) dLGN cells. In New World primates such as 
common marmoset, these very small cells are known to form distinct and spatially 
extensive, koniocellular layers. Although in Old World primates, such as
macaques, koniocellular layers tend to be very thin, the adjacent parvocellular
layers contain distinct koniocellular extensions. It appears that all S-cone
signals are relayed through such konio cells, whether they are in the main
koniocellular layers or in their colonies within the parvocellular layers of the 
dLGN. In the primary visual cortex, these signals begin to merge with the signals
carried by the other two principal parallel channels, namely the magnocellular
and parvocellular channels. This article will also review the possible routes
taken by the S-cone signals to reach one of the topographically organised
extrastriate visual cortical areas, the middle temporal area (area MT). This area
is the major conduit for signals reaching the parietal cortex. Alternative visual
inputs to area MT not relayed via the primary visual cortex area (V1) may provide
the neurological basis for the phenomenon of 'blindsight' observed in human and
non-human primates, who have partial or complete damage to the primary visual
cortex. Short wavelength sensitive cone (S-cone) signals to area MT may also play
a role in directing visual attention with possible implications for understanding
the pathology in dyslexia and some of its treatment options.

© 2012 The Authors. Clinical and Experimental Optometry © 2012 Optometrists
Association Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1444-0938.2012.00819.x 
PMID: 23186138  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

