

1632. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Mar 1;240:91-4. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.11.018. Epub 2012
Nov 23.

Cannabinoid type 1 receptor ligands WIN 55,212-2 and AM 251 alter anxiety-like
behaviors of marmoset monkeys in an open-field test.

Cagni P(1), Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Cannabinoid type 1 receptors (CB1r) are an important modulatory site for
emotional behavior. However, little is known on the effects of CB1r ligands on
emotionality aspects of primates, even with their highly similar behavioral
response and receptor density/distribution as humans. Thus, we analyzed the
effects of the CB1r agonist WIN 55,212-2 (WIN; 1mg/kg) and the antagonist AM 251 
(AM; 2mg/kg), systemically administered prior to a single brief (15 min) exposure
to a novel open-field (OF) environment, on the behavior of individually tested
adult black tufted-ear marmosets. Both WIN- and AM-treated subjects, compared to 
vehicle controls, had significantly lower rates of long (contact) calls and
exploration, while higher levels of vigilance-related behaviors (scan/glance);
these are indicators of anxiolysis in this setup. Changes in locomotion were not 
detected. However, in the vehicle and AM-groups, sojourn in the peripheral zone
of the OF was significantly higher than in its central region. WIN-treated
marmosets spent an equivalent amount of time in both zones. Therefore, activation
or blockade CB1r function prior to a short and individual exposure to an
unfamiliar environment exerted a significant and complex influence on different
behavioral indicators of anxiety in these monkeys (i.e., a partially overlapping 
anxiolytic-like profile). AM 251, however, has no anxiolytic effect when the time
spent in the center of the OF is considered. This is a major difference when
compared to the WIN-treated group. Data were compared to the response profile
reported in other pre-clinical (rodent) and clinical studies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.11.018 
PMID: 23183218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1633. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2012 Nov 24;10:98. doi: 10.1186/1477-7827-10-98.

FSH prevents depletion of the resting follicle pool by promoting follicular
number and morphology in fresh and cryopreserved primate ovarian tissues
following xenografting.

von Schönfeldt V(1), Chandolia R, Ochsenkühn R, Nieschlag E, Kiesel L, Sonntag B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Campus Grosshadern
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Cryopreservation and transplantation of ovarian tissue is one option 
for re-establishing ovarian function, but optimal conditions for graft
sustainment and follicular survival are still considered experimental. The
present study aims to analyze the effect of FSH treatment on the resting follicle
pool in fresh and cryopreserved primate ovarian tissues following xenografting.
METHODS: Ovarian tissues from adult marmosets were grafted freshly or following
cryopreservation to ovarectomized nude mice treated with FSH 25 IU twice daily
post transplantation or left untreated as controls. Grafts were retrieved 2 or 4 
weeks after transplantation to evaluate the number and morphological appearance
of follicles.
RESULTS: Early start of FSH treatment within 1 week following transplantation
partly prevents primordial follicle loss in fresh and frozen-thawed tissues,
whereas after a 3 weeks time interval this effect is present only in fresh
tissues. A similar positive effect of early, but not later FSH treatment on
primary follicles is seen in fresh tissues compared to only marginal effects in
frozen-thawed tissues. The percentage of morphologically normal follicles is
generally increased in FSH treated tissues, whereas the percentage of primary
follicles over all primordial and primary follicles is increased by FSH only in
freshly-grafted tissues.
CONCLUSIONS: FSH treatment alleviates depletion of the resting follicle pool and 
promotes normal follicular morphology both in freshly and frozen-thawed grafted
tissues. In previously cryopreserved tissues, applying to most of the tissues
intended for clinical use in fertility preservation attempts, its positive effect
on primordial follicle numbers and potential graft sustainment is dependent on an
early start of treatment within one week of transplantation.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-10-98 
PMCID: PMC3560100
PMID: 23176179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

