

1633. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2012 Nov 24;10:98. doi: 10.1186/1477-7827-10-98.

FSH prevents depletion of the resting follicle pool by promoting follicular
number and morphology in fresh and cryopreserved primate ovarian tissues
following xenografting.

von Schönfeldt V(1), Chandolia R, Ochsenkühn R, Nieschlag E, Kiesel L, Sonntag B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Campus Grosshadern
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Cryopreservation and transplantation of ovarian tissue is one option 
for re-establishing ovarian function, but optimal conditions for graft
sustainment and follicular survival are still considered experimental. The
present study aims to analyze the effect of FSH treatment on the resting follicle
pool in fresh and cryopreserved primate ovarian tissues following xenografting.
METHODS: Ovarian tissues from adult marmosets were grafted freshly or following
cryopreservation to ovarectomized nude mice treated with FSH 25 IU twice daily
post transplantation or left untreated as controls. Grafts were retrieved 2 or 4 
weeks after transplantation to evaluate the number and morphological appearance
of follicles.
RESULTS: Early start of FSH treatment within 1 week following transplantation
partly prevents primordial follicle loss in fresh and frozen-thawed tissues,
whereas after a 3 weeks time interval this effect is present only in fresh
tissues. A similar positive effect of early, but not later FSH treatment on
primary follicles is seen in fresh tissues compared to only marginal effects in
frozen-thawed tissues. The percentage of morphologically normal follicles is
generally increased in FSH treated tissues, whereas the percentage of primary
follicles over all primordial and primary follicles is increased by FSH only in
freshly-grafted tissues.
CONCLUSIONS: FSH treatment alleviates depletion of the resting follicle pool and 
promotes normal follicular morphology both in freshly and frozen-thawed grafted
tissues. In previously cryopreserved tissues, applying to most of the tissues
intended for clinical use in fertility preservation attempts, its positive effect
on primordial follicle numbers and potential graft sustainment is dependent on an
early start of treatment within one week of transplantation.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-10-98 
PMCID: PMC3560100
PMID: 23176179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1634. Development. 2012 Dec;139(24):4514-23. doi: 10.1242/dev.083279.

Importance of the pluripotency factor LIN28 in the mammalian nucleolus during
early embryonic development.

Vogt EJ(1), Meglicki M, Hartung KI, Borsuk E, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Stem Cell Biology Unit, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen,
Germany. evogt@gwdg.de

The maternal nucleolus is required for proper activation of the embryonic genome 
(EGA) and early embryonic development. Nucleologenesis is characterized by the
transformation of a nucleolar precursor body (NPB) to a mature nucleolus during
preimplantation development. However, the function of NPBs and the involved
molecular factors are unknown. We uncover a novel role for the pluripotency
factor LIN28, the biological significance of which was previously demonstrated in
the reprogramming of human somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells.
Here, we show that LIN28 accumulates at the NPB and the mature nucleolus in mouse
preimplantation embryos and embryonic stem cells (ESCs), where it colocalizes
with the nucleolar marker B23 (nucleophosmin 1). LIN28 has nucleolar localization
in non-human primate (NHP) preimplantation embryos, but is cytoplasmic in NHP
ESCs. Lin28 transcripts show a striking decline before mouse EGA, whereas LIN28
protein localizes to NPBs at the time of EGA. Following knockdown with a Lin28
morpholino, the majority of embryos arrest between the 2- and 4-cell stages and
never develop to morula or blastocyst. Lin28 morpholino-injected embryos arrested
at the 2-cell stage were not enriched with nucleophosmin at presumptive NPB
sites, indicating that functional NPBs were not assembled. Based on these
results, we propose that LIN28 is an essential factor of nucleologenesis during
early embryonic development.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.083279 
PMCID: PMC3912245
PMID: 23172912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

