

1635. Am J Primatol. 2013 Feb;75(2):153-60. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22093. Epub 2012 Nov 20.

Digestive efficiency mediated by serum calcium predicts bone mineral density in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jarcho MR(1), Power ML, Layne-Colon DG, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department, University of California, Davis, USA.
michael.jarcho@loras.edu

Two health problems have plagued captive common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
colonies for nearly as long as those colonies have existed: marmoset wasting
syndrome and metabolic bone disease. While marmoset wasting syndrome is
explicitly linked to nutrient malabsorption, we propose metabolic bone disease is
also linked to nutrient malabsorption, although indirectly. If animals experience
negative nutrient balance chronically, critical nutrients may be taken from
mineral stores such as the skeleton, thus leaving those stores depleted. We
indirectly tested this prediction through an initial investigation of digestive
efficiency, as measured by apparent energy digestibility, and serum parameters
known to play a part in metabolic bone mineral density of captive common marmoset
monkeys. In our initial study on 12 clinically healthy animals, we found a wide
range of digestive efficiencies, and subjects with lower digestive efficiency had
lower serum vitamin D despite having higher food intakes. A second experiment on 
23 subjects including several with suspected bone disease was undertaken to
measure digestive and serum parameters, with the addition of a measure of bone
mineral density by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Bone mineral density 
was positively associated with apparent digestibility of energy, vitamin D, and
serum calcium. Further, digestive efficiency was found to predict bone mineral
density when mediated by serum calcium. These data indicate that a poor ability
to digest and absorb nutrients leads to calcium and vitamin D insufficiency.
Vitamin D absorption may be particularly critical for indoor-housed animals, as
opposed to animals in a more natural setting, because vitamin D that would
otherwise be synthesized via exposure to sunlight must be absorbed from their
diet. If malabsorption persists, metabolic bone disease is a possible consequence
in common marmosets. These findings support our hypothesis that both wasting
syndrome and metabolic bone disease in captive common marmosets are consequences 
of inefficient nutrient absorption.

Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22093 
PMCID: PMC3527643
PMID: 23169342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1636. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e49469. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049469. Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Efficient derivation of multipotent neural stem/progenitor cells from non-human
primate embryonic stem cells.

Shimada H(1), Okada Y, Ibata K, Ebise H, Ota S, Tomioka I, Nomura T, Maeda T,
Kohda K, Yuzaki M, Sasaki E, Nakamura M, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, 
Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate that has
been used as a non-human primate model for various biomedical studies. We
previously demonstrated that transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells
(NS/PCs) derived from mouse and human embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) promote functional locomotor recovery of mouse
spinal cord injury models. However, for the clinical application of such a
therapeutic approach, we need to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pluripotent 
stem cell-derived NS/PCs not only by xenotransplantation, but also
allotransplantation using non-human primate models to assess immunological
rejection and tumorigenicity. In the present study, we established a culture
method to efficiently derive NS/PCs as neurospheres from common marmoset ESCs.
Marmoset ESC-derived neurospheres could be passaged repeatedly and showed
sequential generation of neurons and astrocytes, similar to that of mouse
ESC-derived NS/PCs, and gave rise to functional neurons as indicated by calcium
imaging. Although marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs could not differentiate into
oligodendrocytes under default culture conditions, these cells could abundantly
generate oligodendrocytes by incorporating additional signals that recapitulate
in vivo neural development. Moreover, principal component analysis of microarray 
data demonstrated that marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs acquired similar gene
expression profiles to those of fetal brain-derived NS/PCs by repeated passaging.
Therefore, marmoset ESC-derived NS/PCs may be useful not only for accurate
evaluation by allotransplantation of NS/PCs into non-human primate models, but
are also applicable to analysis of iPSCs established from transgenic disease
model marmosets.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049469 
PMCID: PMC3498141
PMID: 23166679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

