

1637. Am J Primatol. 2013 Feb;75(2):145-52. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22092. Epub 2012 Nov 15.

Alloparental responsiveness to newborns by nonreproductive, adult male, common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Barbosa MN(1), da Silva Mota MT.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, UFRN, Campus Universitário,
Natal, RN, Brazil. maricelebarbosa@yahoo.com.br

Parental care in mammals is influenced by sensory stimuli from infants, and by
changes in the hormone levels of caretakers. To determine the responsiveness to
infant cues in nonreproductive adult male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
with and without previous experience in caretaking, we exposed 12 males to
newborn marmosets and assessed their cortisol plasma levels and behavioral
response. Newborn marmosets housed in transparent enclosures were placed inside
the cages of the adult male subjects. Males were exposed four times to two
different experimental conditions: (a) newborn enclosures remained closed during 
the observation period and (b) newborn enclosures were opened during the
observation period to allow direct social interaction by the adult males. Blood
samples from adult males were collected after each behavioral observation trial
to measure the levels of cortisol. The behavioral responses of adult males
exposed to the closed and open newborn enclosures showed a significant difference
only with respect to the frequency of displacements, where males moved among the 
quadrants of their own cages with greater frequency when the newborn enclosure
was sealed. Experienced males approached newborn enclosures more frequently,
spent more time in close proximity, and carried and recovered newborns more
quickly than inexperienced males. The successive exposure to newborns increased
the responsiveness in inexperienced males. The highest levels of plasma cortisol 
in adult males were recorded following periods of exposure to the sealed newborn 
enclosures. This suggests that successive exposure to newborns and previous
alloparental caregiving experience while living in family groups influences the
responsiveness of male marmosets to the sensory cues of newborns.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22092 
PMID: 23161510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1638. J Neurosci. 2012 Nov 14;32(46):16149-61. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2563-12.2012.

Dual-pitch processing mechanisms in primate auditory cortex.

Bendor D(1), Osmanski MS, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.

Pitch, our perception of how high or low a sound is on a musical scale, is a
fundamental perceptual attribute of sounds and is important for both music and
speech. After more than a century of research, the exact mechanisms used by the
auditory system to extract pitch are still being debated. Theoretically, pitch
can be computed using either spectral or temporal acoustic features of a sound.
We have investigated how cues derived from the temporal envelope and spectrum of 
an acoustic signal are used for pitch extraction in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a vocal primate species, by measuring pitch discrimination 
behaviorally and examining pitch-selective neuronal responses in auditory cortex.
We find that pitch is extracted by marmosets using temporal envelope cues for
lower pitch sounds composed of higher-order harmonics, whereas spectral cues are 
used for higher pitch sounds with lower-order harmonics. Our data support
dual-pitch processing mechanisms, originally proposed by psychophysicists based
on human studies, whereby pitch is extracted using a combination of temporal
envelope and spectral cues.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2563-12.2012 
PMCID: PMC3752143
PMID: 23152599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

