

1639. J Med Chem. 2013 Jan 10;56(1):167-81. doi: 10.1021/jm3014053. Epub 2012 Dec 19.

Structural optimization of 2,5-thiophene amides as highly potent and selective
17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 inhibitors for the treatment of
osteoporosis.

Marchais-Oberwinkler S(1), Xu K, Wetzel M, Perspicace E, Negri M, Meyer A,
Odermatt A, Möller G, Adamski J, Hartmann RW.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Saarland University, D-66041
Saarbrücken, Germany.

Inhibition of 17β-HSD2 is an attractive mechanism for the treatment of
osteoporosis. We report here the optimization of human 17β-HSD2 inhibitors in the
2,5-thiophene amide class by varying the size of the linker (n equals 0 and 2)
between the amide moiety and the phenyl group. While none of the phenethylamides 
(n = 2) were active, most of the anilides (n = 0) turned out to moderately or
strongly inhibit 17β-HSD2. The four most active compounds showed an IC₅₀ of
around 60 nM and a very good selectivity toward 17β-HSD1, 17β-HSD4, 17β-HSD5,
11β-HSD1, 11β-HSD2 and the estrogen receptors α and β. The investigated compounds
inhibited monkey 17β-HSD2 moderately, and one of them showed good inhibitory
activity on mouse 17β-HSD2. SAR studies allowed a first characterization of the
human 17β-HSD2 active site, which is predicted to be considerably larger than
that of 17β-HSD1.

DOI: 10.1021/jm3014053 
PMID: 23145773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1640. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;947:185-200. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-131-8_15.

The enhanced pre- and postnatal development study for monoclonal antibodies.

Weinbauer GF(1), Luft J, Fuchs A.

Author information: 
(1)Covance Laboratories GmbH, Muenster, Germany. Gerhard.Weinbauer@covance.com

The enhanced pre- and postnatal (ePPND) study design has been developed in
response to new scientific knowledge and subsequent guideline changes [ICH M3(R2)
and ICH S6(R1)]. The changes in study design were basically driven by the
experiences obtained during preclinical development of biopharmaceuticals. The
standard ePPND concept does not apply to conventional small molecule
pharmaceuticals. In essence, the ePPND design is a pre- and postnatal development
(PPND) study in which key elements of an embryo-fetal development study are
investigated in newborns and infants rather than in the fetus. The cynomolgus
monkey is the current relevant nonhuman primate model. The ICH S6(R1) guideline
reached step 5 in June 2011 and provides detailed recommendations on various
parameters and the conduct of an ePPND study. This chapter provides working
guidance for monitoring menstrual cycles to generate pregnant animals, ultrasound
monitoring of pregnancy, morphometric measurements of fetuses and newborns, in
vivo skeletal examination, various protocols for evaluation of infants (e.g.,
neurobehavioral assessment, learning and memory test, grip strength, immune
system evaluation) and a comprehensive list of additional infant evaluation
parameters for the cynomolgus monkey.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-131-8_15 
PMID: 23138905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

