

1640. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;947:185-200. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-131-8_15.

The enhanced pre- and postnatal development study for monoclonal antibodies.

Weinbauer GF(1), Luft J, Fuchs A.

Author information: 
(1)Covance Laboratories GmbH, Muenster, Germany. Gerhard.Weinbauer@covance.com

The enhanced pre- and postnatal (ePPND) study design has been developed in
response to new scientific knowledge and subsequent guideline changes [ICH M3(R2)
and ICH S6(R1)]. The changes in study design were basically driven by the
experiences obtained during preclinical development of biopharmaceuticals. The
standard ePPND concept does not apply to conventional small molecule
pharmaceuticals. In essence, the ePPND design is a pre- and postnatal development
(PPND) study in which key elements of an embryo-fetal development study are
investigated in newborns and infants rather than in the fetus. The cynomolgus
monkey is the current relevant nonhuman primate model. The ICH S6(R1) guideline
reached step 5 in June 2011 and provides detailed recommendations on various
parameters and the conduct of an ePPND study. This chapter provides working
guidance for monitoring menstrual cycles to generate pregnant animals, ultrasound
monitoring of pregnancy, morphometric measurements of fetuses and newborns, in
vivo skeletal examination, various protocols for evaluation of infants (e.g.,
neurobehavioral assessment, learning and memory test, grip strength, immune
system evaluation) and a comprehensive list of additional infant evaluation
parameters for the cynomolgus monkey.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-131-8_15 
PMID: 23138905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1641. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;947:169-83. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-131-8_14.

Embryo fetal development studies in nonhuman primates.

Fuchs A(1), Buse E, Weinbauer GF.

Author information: 
(1)Covance Laboratories GmbH, Muenster, Germany.

Embryo fetal development (EFD) studies in nonhuman primates are frequently
conducted in macaques with Macaca fascicularis (cynomolgus monkey, long-tailed
macaque, crab-eating macaque) being the most accepted model. EFD studies are also
feasible in the marmoset. Due to recent guideline changes (ICH M3(R2) and
S6(R1)), EFD studies are largely confined to conventional pharmaceutical
compounds rather than biopharmaceuticals. This chapter describes basic study
designs and provides working protocols for collecting, processing, and staining
fetuses, including collection of amniotic fluid and umbilical cord blood. The
chapter also covers the examination and terminology for external, visceral, and
skeletal examinations of fetuses. The species covered in this chapter are
cynomolgus monkey (long-tailed macaque) and marmoset monkey.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-131-8_14 
PMID: 23138904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

