

1643. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47895. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047895. Epub 2012 Oct 24.

An operant conditioning method for studying auditory behaviors in marmoset
monkeys.

Remington ED(1), Osmanski MS, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America. evan.remington@gmail.com

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate that has
increasingly been used as a non-human model in the fields of sensory, motor, and 
cognitive neuroscience. However, little knowledge exists regarding behavioral
methods in this species. Developing an understanding of the neural basis of
perception and cognition in an animal model requires measurement of both brain
activity and behavior. Here we describe an operant conditioning behavioral
training method developed to allow controlled psychoacoustic measurements in
marmosets. We demonstrate that marmosets can be trained to consistently perform a
Go/No-Go auditory task in which a subject licks at a feeding tube when it detects
a sound. Correct responses result in delivery of a food reward. Crucially, this
operant conditioning task generates little body movement and is well suited for
pairing behavior with single-unit electrophysiology. Successful implementation of
an operant conditioning behavior opens the door to a wide range of new studies in
the field of auditory neuroscience using the marmoset as a model system.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047895 
PMCID: PMC3480461
PMID: 23110123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1644. Trends Genet. 2012 Dec;28(12):586-91. doi: 10.1016/j.tig.2012.09.003. Epub 2012
Oct 22.

The resurgence and genetic implications of New World primates in biomedical
research.

Ward JM(1), Vallender EJ.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, MA 01772, USA.

There has been a recent resurgence of interest in New World monkeys within the
biomedical research community, driven by both the sequencing of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) genome and a growing demand for alternatives to Old
World primates. New World monkeys offer attractive advantages over Old World
species, including cheaper and simpler husbandry, while still maintaining a
greater evolutionary proximity to humans compared with other animal models.
Although numerous commonalities across primate species exist, there are also
important genetic and reproductive differences that can and should play a
critical role in selecting appropriate animal models. Common marmosets in
particular have significantly reduced diversity at the major histocompatibility
complex (MHC) loci and are born as hematopoietic chimeras. New World primates can
make ideal translational models for research, but scientists must necessarily
incorporate complete understandings of their genetic and phenotypic differences
from humans and other model organisms.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tig.2012.09.003 
PMCID: PMC3500444
PMID: 23099234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

