

1644. Trends Genet. 2012 Dec;28(12):586-91. doi: 10.1016/j.tig.2012.09.003. Epub 2012
Oct 22.

The resurgence and genetic implications of New World primates in biomedical
research.

Ward JM(1), Vallender EJ.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, MA 01772, USA.

There has been a recent resurgence of interest in New World monkeys within the
biomedical research community, driven by both the sequencing of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) genome and a growing demand for alternatives to Old
World primates. New World monkeys offer attractive advantages over Old World
species, including cheaper and simpler husbandry, while still maintaining a
greater evolutionary proximity to humans compared with other animal models.
Although numerous commonalities across primate species exist, there are also
important genetic and reproductive differences that can and should play a
critical role in selecting appropriate animal models. Common marmosets in
particular have significantly reduced diversity at the major histocompatibility
complex (MHC) loci and are born as hematopoietic chimeras. New World primates can
make ideal translational models for research, but scientists must necessarily
incorporate complete understandings of their genetic and phenotypic differences
from humans and other model organisms.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tig.2012.09.003 
PMCID: PMC3500444
PMID: 23099234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1645. Mol Biol Rep. 2013 Feb;40(2):1073-80. doi: 10.1007/s11033-012-2149-z. Epub 2012
Oct 25.

Molecular cloning and expression of 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 gene 
in Hu sheep.

Wang CL(1), Ying SJ, Wang ZY, Xing HJ, Wang LZ, He DY, Xiao SH, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Sheep & Goat Science, and Center of Animal Embryo Engineering &
Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, Jiangsu, People's
Republic of China. wangchanglong921@163.com

17β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (17β-HSD2) catalyzes the NADP+-dependent 
oxidation of the most potent estrogen 17β-estradiol into the weak estrogen
estrone, and the conversion of testosterone to androstenedione. It has been
reported that 17β-HSD2 was expressed in many tissues in human, rats, however, the
full-length sequence of 17β-HSD2 gene and its expression in ewe were still
unknown. In this study, we cloned the full-length cDNA sequence and investigated 
mRNA differential expression in 28 tissues of 12 adult Hu-Sheep which were fed
with high- and low- dietary intake. The 1,317 bp full-length cDNA sequence was
first cloned. The coding region was 1,167 bp in length, and the monomer was
estimated to contain 389 amino acid residues. It shares high AA sequence identity
with that of bos Taurus (96.13 %), sus scrofa (77.06 %), canis lupus familiaris
(70.44 %), Callithrix jacchus (65.72 %), Nomascus leucogenys (65.46 %), pan
troglodytes (65.21 %), human (64.69 %), mus musculus (58.35 %), and a
comparatively lower identity to danio rerio (37.85 %). 17β-HSD2 gene was high
expressed in gastrointestinal (GI) tract, liver, but weakly expressed in other
tissues. No detected expression was examined in lung. 17β-HSD2 gene expression
was significantly difference in rumen, omasum, duodenum, cecum, hypophysis after 
high- and low- dietary intake. Results from the present study suggested that
17β-HSD2 plays a crucial role in almost all tissues protecting against excessive 
levels of active steroid hormone, and GI tract maybe an important steroid hormone
metabolizing organ in Hu-Sheep. This present study is the first to provide the
primary foundation for further insight into this ovine gene.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-012-2149-z 
PMID: 23096084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

