

1648. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2013 Feb 1;128(1-2):155-60. doi:
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.08.020. Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Sensitization of hypervigilance effects of cocaine can be induced by NK3 receptor
activation in marmoset monkeys.

Melamed JL(1), de Souza Silva MA, Tomaz C, Müller CP, Huston JP, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Cocaine is a widely abused drug which can result in the establishment
of addiction. The neurokinin3-receptor (NK3-R) has been linked to cocaine
addiction by genetic, epigenetic, and pharmacological studies suggesting that a
cocaine-induced increase in NK3-R signaling may contribute to the establishment
of cocaine addiction-related behaviors.
METHODS: Here we measured cocaine-induced sensitization of vigilance- and
locomotor behaviors in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) in an open
field.
RESULTS: We found a sensitization of vigilance-related, but not locomotor
behaviors after repeated cocaine (7mg/kg, i.p.) treatment. There was a
cross-sensitization for scan frequency, but not of glance frequency, both
vigilance-related behaviors, after repeated treatment with the NK3-R agonist
senktide (0.2mg/kg, i.p.) given for 7 days, after a cocaine challenge (5mg/kg,
i.p.).
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that in marmoset monkeys, repeated cocaine
treatment leads to a sensitization of vigilance-related behaviors, which have a
prominent role in spontaneously expressed activities in this species, but not of 
locomotor activity. Repeated activation of NK3-Rs can mimic some of the
behavioral sensitization effect and may thus contribute to the establishment of
cocaine related behaviors.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.08.020 
PMID: 23062871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1649. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47344. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047344. Epub 2012 Oct 9.

Neurally mediated airway constriction in human and other species: a comparative
study using precision-cut lung slices (PCLS).

Schlepütz M(1), Rieg AD, Seehase S, Spillner J, Perez-Bouza A, Braunschweig T,
Schroeder T, Bernau M, Lambermont V, Schlumbohm C, Sewald K, Autschbach R, Braun 
A, Kramer BW, Uhlig S, Martin C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, RWTH Aachen University, Germany.

The peripheral airway innervation of the lower respiratory tract of mammals is
not completely functionally characterized. Recently, we have shown in rats that
precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) respond to electric field stimulation (EFS) and 
provide a useful model to study neural airway responses in distal airways. Since 
airway responses are known to exhibit considerable species differences, here we
examined the neural responses of PCLS prepared from mice, rats, guinea pigs,
sheep, marmosets and humans. Peripheral neurons were activated either by EFS or
by capsaicin. Bronchoconstriction in response to identical EFS conditions varied 
between species in magnitude. Frequency response curves did reveal further
species-dependent differences of nerve activation in PCLS. Atropine antagonized
the EFS-induced bronchoconstriction in human, guinea pig, sheep, rat and marmoset
PCLS, showing cholinergic responses. Capsaicin (10 µM) caused bronchoconstriction
in human (4 from 7) and guinea pig lungs only, indicating excitatory
non-adrenergic non-cholinergic responses (eNANC). However, this effect was
notably smaller in human responder (30 ± 7.1%) than in guinea pig (79 ± 5.1%)
PCLS. The transient receptor potential (TRP) channel blockers SKF96365 and
ruthenium red antagonized airway contractions after exposure to EFS or capsaicin 
in guinea pigs. In conclusion, the different species show distinct patterns of
nerve-mediated bronchoconstriction. In the most common experimental animals, i.e.
in mice and rats, these responses differ considerably from those in humans. On
the other hand, guinea pig and marmoset monkey mimic human responses well and may
thus serve as clinically relevant models to study neural airway responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047344 
PMCID: PMC3467211
PMID: 23056631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

