

1650. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e46371. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046371. Epub 2012 Oct 8.

PET analysis of dopaminergic neurodegeneration in relation to immobility in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset, a model for Parkinson's disease.

Ando K(1), Obayashi S, Nagai Y, Oh-Nishi A, Minamimoto T, Higuchi M, Inoue T,
Itoh T, Suhara T.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasakiku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa,
Japan. ando@ciea.or.jp

BACKGROUND: Positron Emission Tomography (PET) measurement was applied to the
brain of the common marmoset, a small primate species, treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). The marmoset shows prominent
Parkinson's disease (PD) signs due to dopaminergic neural degeneration. Recently,
the transgenic marmoset (TG) carrying human PD genes is developing. For
phenotypic evaluations of TG, non-invasive PET measurement is considered to be
substantially significant. As a reference control for TG, the brain of the
MPTP-marmoset as an established and valid model was scanned by PET. Behavioral
analysis was also performed by recording locomotion of the MPTP-marmoset, as an
objective measure of PD signs.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: MARMOSETS RECEIVED SEVERAL MPTP REGIMENS (SINGLE 
MPTP REGIMEN: 2 mg/kg, s.c., per day for 3 consecutive days) were used for PET
measurement and behavioral observation. To measure immobility as a central PD
sign, locomotion of marmosets in their individual living cages were recorded
daily by infrared sensors. Daily locomotion counts decreased drastically after
MPTP regimens and remained diminished for several months or more. PET scan of the
brain, using [(11)C]PE2I as a ligand of the dopamine (DA) transporter, was
performed once several months after the last MPTP regimen. The mean binding
potential (BP(ND)) in the striatum (putamen and caudate) of the MPTP-marmoset
group was significantly lower than that of the MPTP-free control group (n=5 for
each group). In the MPTP-marmosets, the decrease of BP(ND) in the striatum
closely correlated with the decrease in locomotion counts (r=0.98 in putamen and 
0.91 in caudate).
CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: The present characterization of neural degeneration
using non-invasive PET imaging and of behavioral manifestation in the MPTP
marmoset mimics typical PD characteristics and can be useful in evaluating the
phenotype of TG marmosets being developed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046371 
PMCID: PMC3466292
PMID: 23056291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1651. Anim Cogn. 2013 Jan;16(1):127-35. doi: 10.1007/s10071-012-0562-2. Epub 2012 Sep
29.

Strength of hand preference and dual task performance by common marmosets.

Piddington T(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW, 2351, Australia.

Study of avian and piscine species has shown that animals with stronger
lateralization of the brain are able to perform two tasks presented
simultaneously better than can animals with weaker lateralization. We
investigated whether this might apply also to primates by testing common
marmosets to see whether there is a relationship between the strength of hand
preference, as an indicator of strength of brain lateralization, and the ability 
to carry out two tasks simultaneously. A model predator was introduced into the
testing room while the marmoset was foraging. Marmosets with stronger hand
preferences detected the 'predator' after shorter latency than those with weaker 
hand preferences. Furthermore, the marmosets with stronger hand preferences
produced more mobbing (tsik) vocalizations when they reacted to the predators
than did those with weaker hand preferences. There was no such association
between hand preference and either latency to respond to the predator or mobbing 
reaction when the marmosets were not foraging at the time the predator was
introduced. Hence, strength of lateralization is associated with the ability to
perform foraging and predator detection simultaneously. These results are
discussed with reference to the evolution of brain lateralization.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-012-0562-2 
PMID: 23053795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

