

1652. Neuroscience. 2013 Jan 29;230:102-13. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.09.053.
Epub 2012 Oct 6.

Atlas of the developing brain of the marmoset monkey constructed using magnetic
resonance histology.

Hikishima K(1), Sawada K, Murayama AY, Komaki Y, Kawai K, Sato N, Inoue T, Itoh
T, Momoshima S, Iriki A, Okano HJ, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

The developmental anatomy of the brain is largely directed by neural-based cues. 
Despite this knowledge, the developmental trajectory of the primate brain has not
yet been fully characterized. To realize this goal, the advance in noninvasive
imaging methods and new brain atlases are essential. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate, is widely used in neuroscience
research. The recent introduction of transgenic techniques has enabled the
marmoset to be used as a genetically modifiable primate model for brain
development. Here, a magnetic resonance histology technique involving the use of 
ultra-high-resolution ex vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to
identify the developmental anatomy of the marmoset brain at different time points
from gestational week 8 through to birth. The data allowed the generation of a
multidimensional atlas of brain structures at different developmental stages.
Furthermore, in utero MRI techniques were developed to noninvasively monitor
brain development during the embryonic and fetal stages. The multidimensional
atlas and the MRI tools developed herein are anticipated to further our
understanding of the developing primate brain.

Copyright © 2012 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.09.053 
PMID: 23047019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1653. Otol Neurotol. 2012 Dec;33(9):1625-9. doi: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e31826939e4.

Experimental video analysis of eye blink reflex in a primate model.

Borin A(1), Mello LE, Neiva FC, Testa JR, Cruz OL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Universidade Federal 
de São Paulo, Federal University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
andreiborin@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The establishment of reliable methods for functional assessment in
experimental models of peripheral nerve regeneration is crucial.
METHODS: We present a straightforward method for video analysis of the eye blink 
reflex in a model of facial nerve damage in a nonhuman primate (Callithrix sp.).
RESULTS: Our 6-level dynamic analysis demonstrated good reproducibility between
independent observers, as measured by Cohen's kappa index. Our static analysis,
which was based on 4 semiautomated metric parameters, showed low correlation
during the early stage of facial movement recovery (the first and second weeks), 
but the correlation was excellent during the later stage of recovery (the third
and fourth weeks).
CONCLUSION: Altogether, our results establish a viable and readily accessible
method with good reproducibility and correlation for the analysis of functional
facial nerve recovery in an experimental model and based on video images of the
eye blink reflex.

DOI: 10.1097/MAO.0b013e31826939e4 
PMID: 23032663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

