

1654. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e45587. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045587. Epub 2012 Sep 20.

The monoamine re-uptake inhibitor UWA-101 improves motor fluctuations in the
MPTP-lesioned common marmoset.

Huot P(1), Johnston TH, Gandy MN, Reyes MG, Fox SH, Piggott MJ, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The wearing-OFF phenomenon is a common motor complication of chronic 
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) therapy for Parkinson's disease. We
recently described the discovery of UWA-101, a dual serotonin (SERT) and dopamine
(DAT) transporter inhibitor, which increases the duration of "good quality"
ON-time provided by L-DOPA in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned primate. Here, we further characterise the effects of UWA-101 on 
this extension of ON-time in terms of L-DOPA-induced side-effects in the
MPTP-lesioned common marmoset.
METHODS: Marmosets were rendered parkinsonian by MPTP injection and "primed" by
repeated L-DOPA administration, to exhibit dyskinesia and psychosis-like
behaviours. Animals were then administered acute challenges of L-DOPA in
combination with UWA-101 (1, 3, 6 and 10 mg/kg) or vehicle.
RESULTS: In combination with L-DOPA, UWA-101 (3, 6 and 10 mg/kg) significantly
increased duration of ON-time (by 28%, 28%, and 33%, respectively; all P<0.05).
UWA-101 (10 mg/kg) significantly extended duration of ON-time without disabling
dyskinesia (by 62%, P<0.01). UWA-101 did not exacerbate the severity of
dyskinesia (P>0.05). However, at the highest doses (6 and 10 mg/kg), UWA-101
increased the severity of psychosis-like behaviours (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that dual SERT/ DAT inhibitors can
effectively enhance L-DOPA anti-parkinsonian action, without exacerbating
dyskinesia and, as such, represent a promising new therapeutic class for
wearing-OFF. However, at higher doses, dual SERT/ DAT inhibitors may exacerbate
dopaminergic psychosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045587 
PMCID: PMC3447761
PMID: 23029119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1655. J Pharm Biomed Anal. 2013 Jan;72:208-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jpba.2012.08.023. Epub
2012 Sep 7.

Characterization of murine anti-human Fab antibodies for use in an immunoassay
for generic quantification of human Fab fragments in non-human serum samples
including cynomolgus monkey samples.

Stubenrauch K(1), Wessels U, Essig U, Kowalewsky F, Vogel R, Heinrich J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioanalytics, R&D Protein Analytics, Biologics Research, Pharma 
Research and Early Development Penzberg, Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Nonnenwald 2,
82377 Penzberg, Germany. kay-gunnar.stubenrauch@roche.com

Generic immunoassay formats in animal serum have been described for
pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis of human full-length antibodies, but not of human
antigen binding fragment (Fab) proteins. Here we characterize two murine
monoclonal antibodies (mAb) raised against human immunoglobulin G (IgG) which
bind to unique epitopes in the Fab region of human IgG. mAb M-1.7.10 is directed 
against the constant domain of the kappa light chain and mAb M-1.19.31 binds to
the constant domain 1 (CH1) of the heavy chain. Surface plasmon resonance
analysis showed that mAb M-1.7.10 does not cross-react with sera from mouse, rat,
rabbit, dog, marmoset, rhesus macaque, baboon and cynomolgus monkey, but binds to
human and chimpanzee serum (dissociation constant K(D) of 6.8 × 10(-12) and 3.1 ×
10(-11)M, respectively). mAb M-1.19.31 shows a higher K(D) for human and
chimpanzee IgG (2.0 × 10(-9)M and 5.8 × 10(-10)M, respectively), but also does
not bind to serum of the other species. Therefore, mAb M-1.7.10 was used as
capture and mAb M-1.19.31 as detection reagent in a generic enzyme linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to quantify the human anti-IGF-1R Fab in mouse serum.
The generic human Fab assay showed a limit of detection of 31.5 ng/mL anti-IGF-1R
Fab. Intra- and inter-assay precision was less than 12% and the accuracy range
for all controls was within ±20% of the target concentration. The generic human
Fab ELISA was applied to determine serum levels of human anti-IGF-1R Fab after
intravenous (iv) administration of 10mg/kg to mice. The resulting
concentration-time profile was nearly identical to that obtained by analysis with
a validated specific ELISA for anti-IGF-1R Fab. The mean relative concentration
of anti-IGF-1R Fab analyzed by the generic assay was 82-118% of that of the
specific assay. This equivalence was confirmed in a cynomolgus monkey study with 
the full length human mAb anti-TROP-2 IgG. Both specific ELISAs used mAb M-1.7.10
as detection reagent and their targets for capturing. In conclusion, the two
murine anti-human Fabs are versatile tools as capture and detection reagents for 
human antibodies in generic and specific PK ELISA formats for animal studies.
Their use in specific ELISAs as detection reagents allows the usage of Fc-fusion 
proteins as capture reagents.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpba.2012.08.023 
PMID: 23017233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

