

1656. Seishin Shinkeigaku Zasshi. 2012;114(8):921-7.

[Development and neural basis of social behavior].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakamura S(1), Karino G, Senoo A, Mimura K, Shirakawa Y, Yamazaki K, Fukushima Y,
Obara S, Sekihara H, Ozawa S, Yui K, Koshiba M.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology.

We have developed a multi variate analysis of social communication behavior which
allows for discriminating the emotional state of an agent interacting with other 
agents (Bouquet method). Domestic chick or common marmoset was reared under
socially isolated conditions, later tested for its development of communication
behavior with peers by Bouquet, and compared with that of animals reared under
grouping conditions. We found the existence of high sensitive period for social
interaction, given less experience, developing less affiliated behavior. From
chick model, a couple of neuronal difference was observed between two groups,
amygdale core central cell size, MRI volumetric measure in mesolimbic area, and
gene expression patter including brain type tryptophan hydroxylase in nucleus
accumbens. The isolated chick behavior changed better to be socially affiliated
by taking SSRI/SNRI or Ubiquinol (the reduced form of CoQ10) together with social
interaction experience after the sensitive period. Finally, we could discriminate
the behavior of Asperger syndrome children (n = 7) from that of the typically
developed siblings (n = 6) during the clinical interview by applying Bouquet
method.


PMID: 23012854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1657. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2012 Nov 1;179(2):313-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2012.07.030.
Epub 2012 Sep 18.

Molecular evolution of the neurohypophysial hormone precursors in mammals:
Comparative genomics reveals novel mammalian oxytocin and vasopressin analogues.

Wallis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK. m.wallis@sussex.ac.uk

Among vertebrates the neurohypophysial hormones show considerable variation.
However, in eutherian mammals they have been considered rather conserved, with
arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) in all species except pig and some
relatives, where lysine vasopressin replaces AVP. The availability of genomic
data for a wide range of mammals makes it possible to assess whether these
peptides and their precursors may be more variable in Eutheria than previously
suspected. A survey of these data confirms that AVP and OT occur in most
eutherians, but with exceptions. In a New-World monkey (marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus) and in tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri), Pro(8)OT replaces OT, confirming a
recent report for these species. In armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) Leu(3)OT
replaces OT, while in tenrec (Echinops telfairi) Thr(4)AVP replaces AVP. In these
two species there is also evidence for additional genes/pseudogenes, encoding
much-modified forms of AVP, but in most other eutherian species there is no
evidence for additional neurohypophysial hormone genes. Evolutionary analysis
shows that sequences of eutherian neurohypophysial hormone precursors are
generally strongly conserved, particularly those regions encoding active peptide 
and neurophysin. The close association between OT and VP genes has led to
frequent gene conversion of sequences encoding neurophysins. A monotreme,
platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus) has genes for OT and AVP, organized
tail-to-tail as in eutherians, but in marsupials 3-4 genes are present for
neurohypophysial hormones, organized tail-to-head as in lower vertebrates.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2012.07.030 
PMID: 22995712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

