

1657. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2012 Nov 1;179(2):313-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2012.07.030.
Epub 2012 Sep 18.

Molecular evolution of the neurohypophysial hormone precursors in mammals:
Comparative genomics reveals novel mammalian oxytocin and vasopressin analogues.

Wallis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK. m.wallis@sussex.ac.uk

Among vertebrates the neurohypophysial hormones show considerable variation.
However, in eutherian mammals they have been considered rather conserved, with
arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) in all species except pig and some
relatives, where lysine vasopressin replaces AVP. The availability of genomic
data for a wide range of mammals makes it possible to assess whether these
peptides and their precursors may be more variable in Eutheria than previously
suspected. A survey of these data confirms that AVP and OT occur in most
eutherians, but with exceptions. In a New-World monkey (marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus) and in tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri), Pro(8)OT replaces OT, confirming a
recent report for these species. In armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus) Leu(3)OT
replaces OT, while in tenrec (Echinops telfairi) Thr(4)AVP replaces AVP. In these
two species there is also evidence for additional genes/pseudogenes, encoding
much-modified forms of AVP, but in most other eutherian species there is no
evidence for additional neurohypophysial hormone genes. Evolutionary analysis
shows that sequences of eutherian neurohypophysial hormone precursors are
generally strongly conserved, particularly those regions encoding active peptide 
and neurophysin. The close association between OT and VP genes has led to
frequent gene conversion of sequences encoding neurophysins. A monotreme,
platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus) has genes for OT and AVP, organized
tail-to-tail as in eutherians, but in marsupials 3-4 genes are present for
neurohypophysial hormones, organized tail-to-head as in lower vertebrates.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2012.07.030 
PMID: 22995712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1658. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Jul;65(5):667-76. doi: 10.1016/j.etp.2012.08.001. Epub
2012 Sep 15.

Differential renal glomerular changes induced by 5/6 nephrectomization between
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) and rats.

Suzuki Y(1), Yamaguchi I, Onoda N, Saito T, Myojo K, Imaizumi M, Takada C, Kimoto
N, Takaba K, Yamate J.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicological Research Laboratories, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.
yui.manabe@kyowa-kirin.co.jp

We have been investigating the relevance and availability of 5/6 nephrectomized
(Nx) common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) as a chronic renal failure
model. As a part of this investigation, renal glomerular changes in the Nx
marmosets were histopathologically and immunohistochemically evaluated, and then 
compared with those in 5/6 Nx SD rats. In the Nx marmosets, the blood and urine
parameters were elevated, excluding urine protein; histopathologically,
enlargement of Bowman's capsule and atrophy of the glomeruli were observed in all
animals, and other slight changes were also observed in 1 or 2 marmosets. There
were no significant changes in the mesangial matrix injury score, vimentin and
desmin positivity or the number of WT1 positive cells between the control and Nx 
marmoset groups. On the other hand, in the Nx rats, the blood and urine
parameters were elevated; histopathologically, various changes were observed in
the glomeruli, and the mesangial matrix injury score, vimentin and desmin
positivity were increased, while the number of WT1 positive cells was decreased; 
these histopathological impacts on the renal glomerulus at 13 weeks after Nx in
rats were more severe than that in the Nx marmosets. Because the glomerular
basement membrane (GBM) was much thicker in the marmosets than in the rats in
electron microscopy, the weaker pathological changes in the Nx marmosets might be
due to the GBM thickness. This study showed for the first time glomerular lesions
developed in the Nx marmosets, and the possible pathogenesis of the glomerular
lesions was discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etp.2012.08.001 
PMID: 22986225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

