

1658. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Jul;65(5):667-76. doi: 10.1016/j.etp.2012.08.001. Epub
2012 Sep 15.

Differential renal glomerular changes induced by 5/6 nephrectomization between
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) and rats.

Suzuki Y(1), Yamaguchi I, Onoda N, Saito T, Myojo K, Imaizumi M, Takada C, Kimoto
N, Takaba K, Yamate J.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicological Research Laboratories, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.
yui.manabe@kyowa-kirin.co.jp

We have been investigating the relevance and availability of 5/6 nephrectomized
(Nx) common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) as a chronic renal failure
model. As a part of this investigation, renal glomerular changes in the Nx
marmosets were histopathologically and immunohistochemically evaluated, and then 
compared with those in 5/6 Nx SD rats. In the Nx marmosets, the blood and urine
parameters were elevated, excluding urine protein; histopathologically,
enlargement of Bowman's capsule and atrophy of the glomeruli were observed in all
animals, and other slight changes were also observed in 1 or 2 marmosets. There
were no significant changes in the mesangial matrix injury score, vimentin and
desmin positivity or the number of WT1 positive cells between the control and Nx 
marmoset groups. On the other hand, in the Nx rats, the blood and urine
parameters were elevated; histopathologically, various changes were observed in
the glomeruli, and the mesangial matrix injury score, vimentin and desmin
positivity were increased, while the number of WT1 positive cells was decreased; 
these histopathological impacts on the renal glomerulus at 13 weeks after Nx in
rats were more severe than that in the Nx marmosets. Because the glomerular
basement membrane (GBM) was much thicker in the marmosets than in the rats in
electron microscopy, the weaker pathological changes in the Nx marmosets might be
due to the GBM thickness. This study showed for the first time glomerular lesions
developed in the Nx marmosets, and the possible pathogenesis of the glomerular
lesions was discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etp.2012.08.001 
PMID: 22986225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1659. Biochimie. 2012 Dec;94(12):2716-22. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2012.08.010. Epub 2012 
Aug 21.

In vitro cell subtype-specific transduction of adeno-associated virus in mouse
and marmoset retinal explant culture.

Baba Y(1), Satoh S, Otsu M, Sasaki E, Okada T, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of Medical Science,
University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a non-pathogenic human parvovirus that can infect
both non-proliferating and proliferating cells. Owing to its favorable safety
profile, AAV is regarded as suitable for clinical purposes such as gene therapy. 
The target cell types of AAV depend largely on the serotype. In the retina, AAV
has been used to introduce exogenous genes into photoreceptors, and
photoreceptor-specific enhancers/promoters are used in most cases. Therefore,
serotype specificity of AAV in retinal subtypes is unclear, particularly in
vitro. We compared its infection profile in mouse and monkey retinas using EGFP
under the control of the CAG promoter, which expressed the gene ubiquitously and 
strongly regardless of cell type. AAV1, 8, and 9 infected the horizontal cells
when an embryonic day-17 retina was used as a host. Amacrine cell was also a
major target of AAVs, and a small number of rod photoreceptors were infected.
When adult retinas were used as a host, the main target of AAV was Müller glia. A
small number of rod photoreceptors were also infected. In the adult common
marmoset retina, rod and cone photoreceptors were efficiently infected by AAV1,
8, and 9. A portion of the Müller glia and amacrine cells were also infected. In 
summary, the infection specificity of different AAV serotypes did not differ, but
was dependent on the stage of the host retina. In addition, infection
specificities differed between mature marmoset retinas and mature mouse retinas.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2012.08.010 
PMID: 22971462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

