

1659. Biochimie. 2012 Dec;94(12):2716-22. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2012.08.010. Epub 2012 
Aug 21.

In vitro cell subtype-specific transduction of adeno-associated virus in mouse
and marmoset retinal explant culture.

Baba Y(1), Satoh S, Otsu M, Sasaki E, Okada T, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of Medical Science,
University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a non-pathogenic human parvovirus that can infect
both non-proliferating and proliferating cells. Owing to its favorable safety
profile, AAV is regarded as suitable for clinical purposes such as gene therapy. 
The target cell types of AAV depend largely on the serotype. In the retina, AAV
has been used to introduce exogenous genes into photoreceptors, and
photoreceptor-specific enhancers/promoters are used in most cases. Therefore,
serotype specificity of AAV in retinal subtypes is unclear, particularly in
vitro. We compared its infection profile in mouse and monkey retinas using EGFP
under the control of the CAG promoter, which expressed the gene ubiquitously and 
strongly regardless of cell type. AAV1, 8, and 9 infected the horizontal cells
when an embryonic day-17 retina was used as a host. Amacrine cell was also a
major target of AAVs, and a small number of rod photoreceptors were infected.
When adult retinas were used as a host, the main target of AAV was Müller glia. A
small number of rod photoreceptors were also infected. In the adult common
marmoset retina, rod and cone photoreceptors were efficiently infected by AAV1,
8, and 9. A portion of the Müller glia and amacrine cells were also infected. In 
summary, the infection specificity of different AAV serotypes did not differ, but
was dependent on the stage of the host retina. In addition, infection
specificities differed between mature marmoset retinas and mature mouse retinas.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2012.08.010 
PMID: 22971462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1660. J Physiol. 2012 Nov 15;590(22):5691-706. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.235010. Epub 
2012 Sep 10.

Adult-like action potential properties and abundant GABAergic synaptic responses 
in amygdala neurons from newborn marmosets.

Yamada D(1), Miyajima M, Ishibashi H, Wada K, Seki K, Sekiguchi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Degenerative Neurological Diseases, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawahigashi,
Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

The amygdala plays an important role in the processing of emotional events. This 
information processing is altered by development, but little is known about the
development of electrophysiological properties of neurons in the amygdala. We
studied the postnatal development of electrophysiological properties of neurons
in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from BLA pyramidal neurons in
brain slices prepared from developing and adult marmosets, and
electrophysiological properties known to change during development in rats were
analysed. Two passive electrical properties of the neuronal membrane - the input 
resistance (R(in)) and the membrane time constant () - significantly decreased
with postnatal development. In contrast, the action potential only showed a
slight decrease in duration during the first month of life, whereas the amplitude
did not change after birth. Passive electrical properties and action potentials
in neurons of 4-week-old marmosets were similar to those in neurons of 4-year-old
marmosets. The development of the action potential duration was not correlated
with the development of R(in) or , whereas the development of R(in) and was
correlated with each other. Abundant spontaneous and noradrenaline-induced
GABAergic currents were present immediately after birth and did not change during
postnatal development. These results suggest that newborn infant marmoset BLA
pyramidal neurons possess relatively mature action potentials and receive
vigorous GABAergic synaptic inputs, and that they acquire adult-like
electrophysiological properties by the fourth week of life.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.235010 
PMCID: PMC3528985
PMID: 22966158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

