

166. Elife. 2021 Mar 31;10. pii: e65012. doi: 10.7554/eLife.65012.

Neural network of social interaction observation in marmosets.

Cléry JC(1), Hori Y(1), Schaeffer DJ(1)(2), Menon RS(1)(3), Everling S(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, Canada.
(2)University of Pittsburgh, Department of Neurobiology, Pittsburgh, United
States.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Canada.

A crucial component of social cognition is to observe and understand the social
interactions of other individuals. A promising nonhuman primate model for
investigating the neural basis of social interaction observation is the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate that shares a rich
social repertoire with humans. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance
imaging acquired at 9.4 T to map the brain areas activated by social interaction 
observation in awake marmosets. We discovered a network of subcortical and
cortical areas, predominately in the anterior lateral frontal and medial frontal 
cortex, that was specifically activated by social interaction observation. This
network resembled that recently identified in Old World macaque monkeys. Our
findings suggest that this network is largely conserved between New and Old World
primates and support the use of marmosets for studying the neural basis of social
cognition.

© 2021, Cléry et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.65012 
PMCID: PMC8024015
PMID: 33787492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JC, YH, DS, RM, SE No competing interests
declared


167. Am Nat. 2021 Apr;197(4):502-508. doi: 10.1086/713110. Epub 2021 Feb 11.

On Being a Monkey's Uncle: Germline Chimerism in the Callitrichinae and the
Evolution of Sibling Rivalry.

Patten MM.

AbstractA typical monkey of the subfamily Callitrichinae has two or more cell
lineages occupying its tissues: one from "itself," and one from its co-twin(s).
Chimerism originates in utero when the twin placentae fuse, vascular anastomoses 
form between them, and cells are exchanged between conceptuses through their
shared circulation. Previously it was thought that chimerism was limited to
tissues of the hematopoietic cell lineage and that the germline was clonal, but
subsequent empirical work has shown that chimerism may extend to many tissues,
including the germline. To explore how natural selection on chimeric organisms
should shape their social behavior, I construct an inclusive fitness model of
sibling interactions that permits differing degrees of chimerism in the soma and 
germline. The model predicts that somatic chimerism should diminish sibling
rivalry but that germline chimerism should typically intensify it. A further
implication of the model is the possibility for intraorganismal conflict over
developing phenotypes; as tissues may differ in their extent of chimerism-for
example, placenta versus brain-their respective inclusive fitness may be
maximized by different phenotypes. Communication between tissues in chimeric
organisms might therefore be noisy, rapidly evolving, and fraught, as is common
in systems with internal evolutionary conflicts of interest.

DOI: 10.1086/713110 
PMID: 33755537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

