

1662. Mol Hum Reprod. 2012 Dec;18(12):605-12. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gas032. Epub 2012 Aug
29.

False-positive antibody signals for the pluripotency factor OCT4A (POU5F1) in
testis-derived cells may lead to erroneous data and misinterpretations.

Warthemann R(1), Eildermann K, Debowski K, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Octamer-binding protein 4 (OCT4) is a key player in pluripotent embryonic stem
(ES) cells and is essential for the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells.
Recently, several reports indicated the spontaneous recovery of pluripotency in
cultured adult human testis-derived cells. This was evidenced also by the
detection of OCT4 using antibodies. However, the soundness of some data was
recently put into question. During our attempts to derive pluripotent cells from 
the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) testis, we obtained inconsistent 
data which prompted us to analyze deeper the characteristics of three independent
OCT4 antibodies that were used in numerous published studies that received
greatest attention. All antibodies detected OCT4 by immunofluorescence (IF) in a 
marmoset monkey ES cell line. Two of the three OCT4 antibodies also gave robust
nuclear signals in testis-derived cells. However, the latter cells expressed no
OCT4 mRNA as revealed by quantitative RT-PCR and turned out to be mesenchymal
cells. When tested in western blot analyses, all antibodies detected
heterologously expressed marmoset monkey OCT4 protein. But, importantly, those
antibodies that resulted in non-specific signals in IF also showed additional
non-specific bands in western blots. In summary, some commercially available OCT4
antibodies result in false-positive signals which may provoke erroneous
conclusions when used in studies aiming at the generation of pluripotent cells in
vitro. We conclude that (i) antibodies must be carefully characterized before use
to prevent misleading observations and (ii) OCT4 expression must be monitored by 
a second antibody-independent method.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gas032 
PMCID: PMC3497886
PMID: 22933709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1663. Theriogenology. 2012 Oct 15;78(7):1487-93. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.06.024. Epub 2012 Aug 24.

Birth of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) offspring derived from in
vitro-matured oocytes in chemically defined medium.

Tomioka I(1), Takahashi T, Shimada A, Yoshioka K, Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

Optimization of oocyte culture conditions is a crucial aspect of reproductive
biology and technology. In the present study, maturation of germinal
vesicle-stage marmoset oocytes were evaluated in the following media: Waymouth
medium, Waymouth medium containing porcine follicular fluid (pFF) (Waymouth-pFF
medium), and porcine oocyte medium (POM). Oocytes cultured in Waymouth-pFF medium
had higher maturation rates to the metaphase II stage than those cultured in
Waymouth medium (36.1% vs. 24.8%, respectively, P < 0.05), indicating the
suitability of this medium for culturing marmoset oocytes. Hence, maturation of
marmoset oocytes cultured in POM was subsequently evaluated. The rate of
maturation to the metaphase I stage was significantly higher and degradation
rates were significantly lower in oocytes cultured in POM than those cultured in 
Waymouth medium. In addition, three offspring were successfully obtained after
transfer of embryos matured in chemically defined medium. Therefore, we concluded
that POM was suitable for marmoset oocyte culture. Furthermore, this was
apparently the first report of marmoset offspring derived from oocytes cultured
in chemically defined medium.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.06.024 
PMID: 22925648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

