

1663. Theriogenology. 2012 Oct 15;78(7):1487-93. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.06.024. Epub 2012 Aug 24.

Birth of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) offspring derived from in
vitro-matured oocytes in chemically defined medium.

Tomioka I(1), Takahashi T, Shimada A, Yoshioka K, Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

Optimization of oocyte culture conditions is a crucial aspect of reproductive
biology and technology. In the present study, maturation of germinal
vesicle-stage marmoset oocytes were evaluated in the following media: Waymouth
medium, Waymouth medium containing porcine follicular fluid (pFF) (Waymouth-pFF
medium), and porcine oocyte medium (POM). Oocytes cultured in Waymouth-pFF medium
had higher maturation rates to the metaphase II stage than those cultured in
Waymouth medium (36.1% vs. 24.8%, respectively, P < 0.05), indicating the
suitability of this medium for culturing marmoset oocytes. Hence, maturation of
marmoset oocytes cultured in POM was subsequently evaluated. The rate of
maturation to the metaphase I stage was significantly higher and degradation
rates were significantly lower in oocytes cultured in POM than those cultured in 
Waymouth medium. In addition, three offspring were successfully obtained after
transfer of embryos matured in chemically defined medium. Therefore, we concluded
that POM was suitable for marmoset oocyte culture. Furthermore, this was
apparently the first report of marmoset offspring derived from oocytes cultured
in chemically defined medium.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.06.024 
PMID: 22925648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1664. Neuroimage. 2012 Dec;63(4):1841-53. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.08.040. Epub
2012 Aug 23.

Conditions for quantitative evaluation of injured spinal cord by in vivo
diffusion tensor imaging and tractography: preclinical longitudinal study in
common marmosets.

Konomi T(1), Fujiyoshi K, Hikishima K, Komaki Y, Tsuji O, Okano HJ, Toyama Y,
Okano H, Nakamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can detect hemorrhage, edema,
syrinx, and spinal cord atrophy, but not axonal disruption after spinal cord
injury (SCI). We previously demonstrated that diffusion tensor tractography (DTT)
could depict axonal disruption after hemisection SCI in common marmosets. In the 
present study, to determine the relationship between DTT results and functional
recovery after contusive SCI, we performed longitudinal DTT, behavioral, and
histological analyses before and after contusive SCI in common marmosets. By
comparing the tract fiber estimate depicted by DTT with neuronal fibers labeled
with RT97 and SMI-31, anti-neurofilament antibodies, we determined the optimal
fractional anisotropy (FA) threshold for fiber tracking to be 0.40. The ratio of 
the number of tract fiber estimates at the lesion site to the number before SCI, 
determined by DTT, was significantly correlated with the functional recovery
after SCI. Moreover, comparison of the longitudinal pre- and post-SCI FA and
axial diffusivity (λ(‖)) values revealed that they decreased after injury at the 
sites caudal to the lesion epicenter in the corticospinal tract and rostral to
the lesion epicenter in the dorsal column. The FA values, then, showed partial
recovery in the dorsal column. FA-value-oriented color DTT was used to represent 
axonal sparing or regeneration of the different tracts. These findings indicated 
that DTT analysis might be a versatile non-invasive tool for evaluating the
axonal disruption after SCI.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.08.040 
PMID: 22922169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

