

1664. Neuroimage. 2012 Dec;63(4):1841-53. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.08.040. Epub
2012 Aug 23.

Conditions for quantitative evaluation of injured spinal cord by in vivo
diffusion tensor imaging and tractography: preclinical longitudinal study in
common marmosets.

Konomi T(1), Fujiyoshi K, Hikishima K, Komaki Y, Tsuji O, Okano HJ, Toyama Y,
Okano H, Nakamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can detect hemorrhage, edema,
syrinx, and spinal cord atrophy, but not axonal disruption after spinal cord
injury (SCI). We previously demonstrated that diffusion tensor tractography (DTT)
could depict axonal disruption after hemisection SCI in common marmosets. In the 
present study, to determine the relationship between DTT results and functional
recovery after contusive SCI, we performed longitudinal DTT, behavioral, and
histological analyses before and after contusive SCI in common marmosets. By
comparing the tract fiber estimate depicted by DTT with neuronal fibers labeled
with RT97 and SMI-31, anti-neurofilament antibodies, we determined the optimal
fractional anisotropy (FA) threshold for fiber tracking to be 0.40. The ratio of 
the number of tract fiber estimates at the lesion site to the number before SCI, 
determined by DTT, was significantly correlated with the functional recovery
after SCI. Moreover, comparison of the longitudinal pre- and post-SCI FA and
axial diffusivity (λ(‖)) values revealed that they decreased after injury at the 
sites caudal to the lesion epicenter in the corticospinal tract and rostral to
the lesion epicenter in the dorsal column. The FA values, then, showed partial
recovery in the dorsal column. FA-value-oriented color DTT was used to represent 
axonal sparing or regeneration of the different tracts. These findings indicated 
that DTT analysis might be a versatile non-invasive tool for evaluating the
axonal disruption after SCI.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.08.040 
PMID: 22922169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1665. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2012 Dec;103(2):279-83. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2012.08.003. 
Epub 2012 Aug 11.

Repeated cocaine administration in marmoset monkeys induces
hypervigilance-related behaviors, but no changes in locomotion and cortisol
levels.

Cagni P(1), Komorowski M, Melo GC, Lima T, Tomaz C, de Souza Silva MA, Huston JP,
Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Although cocaine induces several behavioral and hormonal effects, little is known
about non-contingent repeated administrations in non-human primates. Therefore,
we analyzed behavioral (locomotion, vigilance) and hormonal (cortisol) responses 
of adult black tufted-ear marmosets during repeated administrations and
withdrawal trials. The subjects were divided into two groups (saline or cocaine
5mg/kg, ip) and submitted to nine treatment trials and four withdrawal trials in 
the absence of any treatment in an open-field arena. Blood samples were obtained 
on five different time points of the procedure to evaluate the effects of
repeated cocaine treatment on basal cortisol levels. Cocaine repeatedly
administered to drug-naïve marmosets induced a slow-onset hypervigilance effect
(i.e., scan - long-lasting sweeping movements of the head directed at the
environment; and glance - single rapid movement of the head directed at the
environment), with no concomitant change in locomotion. Treatment cessation
during withdrawal immediately reversed the cocaine-induced hypervigilance effect.
Cortisol levels remained constant throughout the procedure. Therefore, marmosets 
seem to have a similar behavioral - but not hormonal - response as humans and
other nonhuman primates repeatedly injected with cocaine, but differ from rats in
their absence of hyperlocomotor activity. The development of hypervigilance with 
repeated application may constitute a unique measure to assess cocaine-induced
changes in behavior in the marmoset and other nonhuman primates.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2012.08.003 
PMID: 22921767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

