

1665. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2012 Dec;103(2):279-83. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2012.08.003. 
Epub 2012 Aug 11.

Repeated cocaine administration in marmoset monkeys induces
hypervigilance-related behaviors, but no changes in locomotion and cortisol
levels.

Cagni P(1), Komorowski M, Melo GC, Lima T, Tomaz C, de Souza Silva MA, Huston JP,
Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Although cocaine induces several behavioral and hormonal effects, little is known
about non-contingent repeated administrations in non-human primates. Therefore,
we analyzed behavioral (locomotion, vigilance) and hormonal (cortisol) responses 
of adult black tufted-ear marmosets during repeated administrations and
withdrawal trials. The subjects were divided into two groups (saline or cocaine
5mg/kg, ip) and submitted to nine treatment trials and four withdrawal trials in 
the absence of any treatment in an open-field arena. Blood samples were obtained 
on five different time points of the procedure to evaluate the effects of
repeated cocaine treatment on basal cortisol levels. Cocaine repeatedly
administered to drug-naïve marmosets induced a slow-onset hypervigilance effect
(i.e., scan - long-lasting sweeping movements of the head directed at the
environment; and glance - single rapid movement of the head directed at the
environment), with no concomitant change in locomotion. Treatment cessation
during withdrawal immediately reversed the cocaine-induced hypervigilance effect.
Cortisol levels remained constant throughout the procedure. Therefore, marmosets 
seem to have a similar behavioral - but not hormonal - response as humans and
other nonhuman primates repeatedly injected with cocaine, but differ from rats in
their absence of hyperlocomotor activity. The development of hypervigilance with 
repeated application may constitute a unique measure to assess cocaine-induced
changes in behavior in the marmoset and other nonhuman primates.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2012.08.003 
PMID: 22921767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1666. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Sep 21;53(10):6479-87.

The effect of simultaneous negative and positive defocus on eye growth and
development of refractive state in marmosets.

Benavente-Perez A(1), Nour A, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)SUNY College of Optometry, New York, New York 10036, USA.
abenavente@sunyopt.edu

PURPOSE: We evaluated the effect of imposing negative and positive defocus
simultaneously on the eye growth and refractive state of the common marmoset, a
New World primate that compensates for either negative and positive defocus when 
they are imposed individually.
METHODS: Ten marmosets were reared with multizone contact lenses of alternating
powers (-5 diopters [D]/+5 D), 50:50 ratio for average pupil of 2.80 mm over the 
right eye (experimental) and plano over the fellow eye (control) from 10 to 12
weeks. The effects on refraction (mean spherical equivalent [MSE]) and vitreous
chamber depth (VC) were measured and compared to untreated, and -5 D and +5 D
single vision contact lens-reared marmosets.
RESULTS: Over the course of the treatment, pupil diameters ranged from 2.26 to
2.76 mm, leading to 1.5 times greater exposure to negative than positive power
zones. Despite this, at different intervals during treatment, treated eyes were
on average relatively more hyperopic and smaller than controls
(experimental-control [exp-con] mean MSE ± SE +1.44 ± 0.45 D, mean VC ± SE -0.05 
± 0.02 mm) and the effects were similar to those in marmosets raised on +5 D
single vision contact lenses (exp-con mean MSE ± SE +1.62 ± 0.44 D. mean VC ± SE 
-0.06 ± 0.03 mm). Six weeks into treatment, the interocular growth rates in
multizone animals were already lower than in -5 D-treated animals (multizone -1.0
± 0.1 μm/day, -5 D +2.1 ± 0.9 μm/day) and did not change significantly throughout
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Imposing hyperopic and myopic defocus simultaneously using
concentric contact lenses resulted in relatively smaller and less myopic eyes,
despite treated eyes being exposed to a greater percentage of negative defocus.
Exposing the retina to combined dioptric powers with multifocal lenses that
include positive defocus might be an effective treatment to control myopia
development or progression.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-9822 
PMCID: PMC3450918
PMID: 22918633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

