

1666. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2012 Sep 21;53(10):6479-87.

The effect of simultaneous negative and positive defocus on eye growth and
development of refractive state in marmosets.

Benavente-Perez A(1), Nour A, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)SUNY College of Optometry, New York, New York 10036, USA.
abenavente@sunyopt.edu

PURPOSE: We evaluated the effect of imposing negative and positive defocus
simultaneously on the eye growth and refractive state of the common marmoset, a
New World primate that compensates for either negative and positive defocus when 
they are imposed individually.
METHODS: Ten marmosets were reared with multizone contact lenses of alternating
powers (-5 diopters [D]/+5 D), 50:50 ratio for average pupil of 2.80 mm over the 
right eye (experimental) and plano over the fellow eye (control) from 10 to 12
weeks. The effects on refraction (mean spherical equivalent [MSE]) and vitreous
chamber depth (VC) were measured and compared to untreated, and -5 D and +5 D
single vision contact lens-reared marmosets.
RESULTS: Over the course of the treatment, pupil diameters ranged from 2.26 to
2.76 mm, leading to 1.5 times greater exposure to negative than positive power
zones. Despite this, at different intervals during treatment, treated eyes were
on average relatively more hyperopic and smaller than controls
(experimental-control [exp-con] mean MSE ± SE +1.44 ± 0.45 D, mean VC ± SE -0.05 
± 0.02 mm) and the effects were similar to those in marmosets raised on +5 D
single vision contact lenses (exp-con mean MSE ± SE +1.62 ± 0.44 D. mean VC ± SE 
-0.06 ± 0.03 mm). Six weeks into treatment, the interocular growth rates in
multizone animals were already lower than in -5 D-treated animals (multizone -1.0
± 0.1 μm/day, -5 D +2.1 ± 0.9 μm/day) and did not change significantly throughout
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Imposing hyperopic and myopic defocus simultaneously using
concentric contact lenses resulted in relatively smaller and less myopic eyes,
despite treated eyes being exposed to a greater percentage of negative defocus.
Exposing the retina to combined dioptric powers with multifocal lenses that
include positive defocus might be an effective treatment to control myopia
development or progression.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-9822 
PMCID: PMC3450918
PMID: 22918633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1667. J Comp Neurol. 2013 Apr 1;521(5):1001-19. doi: 10.1002/cne.23215.

Representation of the visual field in the primary visual area of the marmoset
monkey: magnification factors, point-image size, and proportionality to retinal
ganglion cell density.

Chaplin TA(1), Yu HH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

The primary visual area (V1) forms a systematic map of the visual field, in which
adjacent cell clusters represent adjacent points of visual space. A precise
quantification of this map is key to understanding the anatomical relationships
between neurons located in different stations of the visual pathway, as well as
the neural bases of visual performance in different regions of the visual field. 
We used computational methods to quantify the visual topography of V1 in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small diurnal monkey. The receptive fields of
neurons throughout V1 were mapped in two anesthetized animals using
electrophysiological recordings. Following histological reconstruction, precise
3D reconstructions of the V1 surface and recording sites were generated. We found
that the areal magnification factor (M(A) ) decreases with eccentricity following
a function that has the same slope as that observed in larger diurnal primates,
including macaque, squirrel, and capuchin monkeys, and humans. However, there was
no systematic relationship between M(A) and polar angle. Despite individual
variation in the shape of V1, the relationship between M(A) and eccentricity was 
preserved across cases. Comparison between V1 and the retinal ganglion cell
density demonstrated preferential magnification of central space in the cortex.
The size of the cortical compartment activated by a punctiform stimulus decreased
from the foveal representation towards the peripheral representation.
Nonetheless, the relationship between the receptive field sizes of V1 cells and
the density of ganglion cells suggested that each V1 cell receives information
from a similar number of retinal neurons, throughout the visual field.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23215 
PMID: 22911425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

