

1667. J Comp Neurol. 2013 Apr 1;521(5):1001-19. doi: 10.1002/cne.23215.

Representation of the visual field in the primary visual area of the marmoset
monkey: magnification factors, point-image size, and proportionality to retinal
ganglion cell density.

Chaplin TA(1), Yu HH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

The primary visual area (V1) forms a systematic map of the visual field, in which
adjacent cell clusters represent adjacent points of visual space. A precise
quantification of this map is key to understanding the anatomical relationships
between neurons located in different stations of the visual pathway, as well as
the neural bases of visual performance in different regions of the visual field. 
We used computational methods to quantify the visual topography of V1 in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small diurnal monkey. The receptive fields of
neurons throughout V1 were mapped in two anesthetized animals using
electrophysiological recordings. Following histological reconstruction, precise
3D reconstructions of the V1 surface and recording sites were generated. We found
that the areal magnification factor (M(A) ) decreases with eccentricity following
a function that has the same slope as that observed in larger diurnal primates,
including macaque, squirrel, and capuchin monkeys, and humans. However, there was
no systematic relationship between M(A) and polar angle. Despite individual
variation in the shape of V1, the relationship between M(A) and eccentricity was 
preserved across cases. Comparison between V1 and the retinal ganglion cell
density demonstrated preferential magnification of central space in the cortex.
The size of the cortical compartment activated by a punctiform stimulus decreased
from the foveal representation towards the peripheral representation.
Nonetheless, the relationship between the receptive field sizes of V1 cells and
the density of ganglion cells suggested that each V1 cell receives information
from a similar number of retinal neurons, throughout the visual field.

Copyright Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23215 
PMID: 22911425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1668. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;925:21-48. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-011-3_2.

Derivation of induced pluripotent stem cells by retroviral gene transduction in
mammalian species.

Imamura M(1), Okuno H, Tomioka I, Kawamura Y, Lin ZY, Nakajima R, Akamatsu W,
Okano HJ, Matsuzaki Y, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Pluripotent stem cells can provide us with an enormous cell source for in vitro
model systems for development. In 2006, new methodology was designed to generate 
pluripotent stem cells directly from somatic cells, and these cells were named
induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). This method consists of technically
simple procedures: donor cell preparation, gene transduction, and isolation of
embryonic stem cell-like colonies. The iPSC technology enables cell biologists
not only to obtain pluripotent stem cells easily but also to study the
reprogramming events themselves. Here, we describe the protocols to generate
iPSCs from somatic origins by using conventional viral vectors. Specifically, we 
state the usage of three mammalian species: mouse, common marmoset, and human. As
mouse iPSC donors, fibroblasts are easily prepared, while mesenchymal stem cells 
are expected to give rise to highly reprogrammed iPSCs efficiently. Common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a nonhuman primate, represents an alternative
model to the usual laboratory animals. Finally, patient-specific human iPSCs give
us an opportunity to examine the pathology and mechanisms of dysregulated genomic
imprinting. The iPSC technology will serve as a valuable method for studying
genomic imprinting, and conversely, the insights from these studies will offer
valuable criteria to assess the potential of iPSCs.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-011-3_2 
PMID: 22907488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

