

1668. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;925:21-48. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-011-3_2.

Derivation of induced pluripotent stem cells by retroviral gene transduction in
mammalian species.

Imamura M(1), Okuno H, Tomioka I, Kawamura Y, Lin ZY, Nakajima R, Akamatsu W,
Okano HJ, Matsuzaki Y, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Pluripotent stem cells can provide us with an enormous cell source for in vitro
model systems for development. In 2006, new methodology was designed to generate 
pluripotent stem cells directly from somatic cells, and these cells were named
induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). This method consists of technically
simple procedures: donor cell preparation, gene transduction, and isolation of
embryonic stem cell-like colonies. The iPSC technology enables cell biologists
not only to obtain pluripotent stem cells easily but also to study the
reprogramming events themselves. Here, we describe the protocols to generate
iPSCs from somatic origins by using conventional viral vectors. Specifically, we 
state the usage of three mammalian species: mouse, common marmoset, and human. As
mouse iPSC donors, fibroblasts are easily prepared, while mesenchymal stem cells 
are expected to give rise to highly reprogrammed iPSCs efficiently. Common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a nonhuman primate, represents an alternative
model to the usual laboratory animals. Finally, patient-specific human iPSCs give
us an opportunity to examine the pathology and mechanisms of dysregulated genomic
imprinting. The iPSC technology will serve as a valuable method for studying
genomic imprinting, and conversely, the insights from these studies will offer
valuable criteria to assess the potential of iPSCs.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-011-3_2 
PMID: 22907488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1669. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2013 Feb;19(2):260-4. doi:
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2012.07.001. Epub 2012 Aug 14.

RGFP109, a histone deacetylase inhibitor attenuates L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 
the MPTP-lesioned marmoset: a proof-of-concept study.

Johnston TH(1), Huot P, Damude S, Fox SH, Jones SW, Rusche JR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain, Imaging & Behaviour, Systems Neuroscience, Toronto Western 
Research Institute, 399 Bathurst Street, MP-12-303, Toronto, ON M5T2S8, Canada.
tom.johnston@uhnresearch.ca

BACKGROUND: l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID) are a 
complication of chronic dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD).
Recent studies have suggested that the mechanisms underlying development and
expression of LID in PD may involve epigenetic changes that include deacetylation
of striatal histone proteins. We hypothesised that inhibition of histone
deacetylase, the enzyme responsible of histone deacetylation, would alleviate
LID.
METHODS: Four female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) were rendered
parkinsonian by administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP). Following stabilisation of the parkinsonian phenotype, marmosets were
primed to exhibit dyskinesia with chronic administration of L-DOPA. We then
investigated the effects of the brain-penetrant histone deacetylase inhibitor,
RGFP109 (30 mg/kg p.o. once daily for 6 days), on LID and L-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian efficacy.
RESULTS: RGFP109 had no acute effects on dyskinesia after single or 6 days
once-daily treatment (both P > 0.05). However, one week following cessation of
RGFP109, dyskinesia and duration of ON-time with disabling dyskinesia were
reduced by 37% and 50%, respectively (both P < 0.05), compared to that seen
previously with L-DOPA alone. There was no change in anti-parkinsonian actions
of, or ON-time duration afforded by, L-DOPA (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Histone deacetylation inhibition may represent a novel approach to
reverse established LID in PD and improve quality of the anti-parkinsonian
benefit provided by L-DOPA.

Copyright Â© 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2012.07.001 
PMID: 22901956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

