

167. Am Nat. 2021 Apr;197(4):502-508. doi: 10.1086/713110. Epub 2021 Feb 11.

On Being a Monkey's Uncle: Germline Chimerism in the Callitrichinae and the
Evolution of Sibling Rivalry.

Patten MM.

AbstractA typical monkey of the subfamily Callitrichinae has two or more cell
lineages occupying its tissues: one from "itself," and one from its co-twin(s).
Chimerism originates in utero when the twin placentae fuse, vascular anastomoses 
form between them, and cells are exchanged between conceptuses through their
shared circulation. Previously it was thought that chimerism was limited to
tissues of the hematopoietic cell lineage and that the germline was clonal, but
subsequent empirical work has shown that chimerism may extend to many tissues,
including the germline. To explore how natural selection on chimeric organisms
should shape their social behavior, I construct an inclusive fitness model of
sibling interactions that permits differing degrees of chimerism in the soma and 
germline. The model predicts that somatic chimerism should diminish sibling
rivalry but that germline chimerism should typically intensify it. A further
implication of the model is the possibility for intraorganismal conflict over
developing phenotypes; as tissues may differ in their extent of chimerism-for
example, placenta versus brain-their respective inclusive fitness may be
maximized by different phenotypes. Communication between tissues in chimeric
organisms might therefore be noisy, rapidly evolving, and fraught, as is common
in systems with internal evolutionary conflicts of interest.

DOI: 10.1086/713110 
PMID: 33755537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Comp Med. 2021 Apr 1;71(2):148-151. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-20-000091. Epub 2021
Mar 22.

The Effect of Body Region on Hair Cortisol Concentration in Common Marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Bartling-John EE(1), Phillips KA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas.
(2)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas; Southwest
National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San
Antonio, Texas;, Email: kimberley.phillips@trinity.edu.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are a valuable research model for the study
of neuroscience and the biologic impact of aging due to their adaptivity,
physiologic characteristics, and ease of handling for experimental manipulations.
Quantification of cortisol in hair provides a noninvasive, retrospective
biomarker of hypothalamics-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity and information 
on animal wellbeing, including responses to environmental and social stimuli. To 
obtain valid and reliable measurements of long-term HPA activity, we investigated
the variability of cortisol concentration in the hair depending on the body
region of marmosets. Hair was collected from the back and tail of 9 adult common 
marmosets during annual health screenings (male n = 3; female n = 6) and these
samples were analyzed for cortisol via methanol extraction and enzyme
immunoassay. We found that hair cortisol concentration differed between the tail 
and back regions, with the tail samples having a significantly higher cortisol
concentration. These results indicate intraindividual and interindividual
comparisons of hair cortisol concentration should use hair obtained from the same
body region in marmosets.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-20-000091 
PMCID: PMC8063202
PMID: 33752781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

