

1671. Am J Primatol. 2012 Dec;74(12):1088-96. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22063. Epub 2012 Aug 13.

Contrast imaging ultrasound detects abnormalities in the marmoset ovary.

Hastings JM(1), Morris KD, Allan D, Wilson H, Millar RP, Fraser HM, Moran CM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Reproductive Health, Queen's Medical Research Institute,
Edinburgh, United Kingdom. juliemhastings@gmail.com

The development of a functional vascular tree within the primate ovary is
critical for reproductive health. To determine the efficacy of contrast agents to
image the microvascular environment within the primate ovary, contrast
ultrasonography was performed in six reproductive-aged female common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) during the late luteal phase of the cycle, following
injection of Sonovue™. Regions of interest (ROIs), representing the corpus luteum
(CL) and noncorpus luteum ovarian tissue (NCLOT), were selected during gray-scale
B-mode ultrasound imaging. The magnitude of backscatter intensity of CL and NCLOT
ROIs were calculated in XnView, post hoc: subsequent gamma-variate modeling was
implemented in Matlab to determine perfusion parameters. Histological analysis of
these ovaries revealed a total of 11 CL, nine of which were identified during
contrast ultrasonography. The median enhancement ratio was significantly
increased in the CL (5.54AU; 95% CI -2.21-68.71) compared to the NCLOT (2.82AU;
95% CI 2.73-15.06; P < 0.05). There was no difference in time parameters between 
the CL and NCLOT. An additional avascular ROI was identified in the ovary of
Animal 5, both histologically and by ultrasonography. This cystic ROI displayed a
markedly lower enhancement ratio (0.79AU) and higher time parameters than mean CL
and NCLOT, including time to peak and time to wash out. These data demonstrate,
for the first time, the ability of commercially available contrast agents, to
differentiate structures within the nonhuman primate ovary. Contrast-enhanced
ultrasonography has a promising future in reproductive medicine.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22063 
PMID: 22890799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1672. Am J Primatol. 2013 Mar;75(3):202-11. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22061. Epub 2012 Aug 13.

Social effects via olfactory sensory stimuli on reproductive function and
dysfunction in cooperative breeding marmosets and tamarins.

Ziegler TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Most primates are social species whose reproduction is influenced by their social
relationships. The cotton-top tamarin, Saguinus oedipus, and the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus, are cooperative breeding species where the family structure
alters reproductive function in many ways. While primates receive social effects 
on reproduction via all sensory stimuli, the marmosets and tamarins are
particularly influenced by olfactory/chemosensory stimuli. The olfactory sensory 
processing is the "social glue" that keeps the family together. This review
describes a number of studies using the marmosets and tamarins at the University 
of Wisconsin to demonstrate how odor cues are used for altering reproductive
function and dysfunction. Several key studies will be discussed to show the role 
of odor signaling of the female reproductive state. The suppressive effects of
odors are mediated by priming odors and can cause a suppressive influence on
ovulation in young females via their mother's scents. Additionally, odor cues
from the infant function as priming odors to ensure that fathers and mothers are 
present and receptive to their parental care duties. Neural pathways occur via
the processing of priming odors that consequently stimulate alterations in the
behavioral and endocrine response to the stimuli. The dynamics of the cooperative
breeding system ensure that offspring have essential needs met and that they
develop in a family environment. Olfactory communication plays a key role in
maintenance of the social system of Callitrichid monkeys.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22061 
PMCID: PMC3502670
PMID: 22890774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

