

1677. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2012 Sep;7(3):557-70. doi: 10.1007/s11481-012-9384-x.
Epub 2012 Jun 30.

Antibodies against human BLyS and APRIL attenuate EAE development in marmoset
monkeys.

Jagessar SA(1), Heijmans N, Oh L, Bauer J, Blezer EL, Laman JD, Migone TS,
Devalaraja MN, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, PO Box 3306,
2280 GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2013 Mar;8(1):370. Oh, Luke [added].

B lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS, also indicated as BAFF (B-cell activating factor) 
and CD257), and A Proliferation Inducing Ligand (APRIL, CD256) are two members of
the TNF superfamily with a central role in B cell survival. Antibodies against
these factors have potential therapeutic relevance in autoimmune inflammatory
disorders with a proven pathogenic contribution of B cells, such as multiple
sclerosis (MS). In the current study we performed a multi-parameter efficacy
comparison of monoclonal antibodies against human anti-BLyS and anti-APRIL in a
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE). A MS-like disease was induced by immunization with
recombinant human myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (rhMOG) in complete
Freund's adjuvant. The results show that the anti-BLyS and anti-APRIL antibody
cause significant depletion of circulating CD20+ B cells, but a small subset of
CD20 + CD40(high) B cells was not depleted. Induction of CD20+ B cell depletion
from lymph nodes was only observed in the anti-BLyS treated monkeys. Both
antibodies had a significant inhibitory effect on disease development, but all
monkeys developed clinically evident EAE. Anti-BLyS treated monkeys were
sacrificed with the same clinical signs as saline-treated monkeys, but
nevertheless displayed significantly reduced spinal cord demyelination. This
effect was not observed in the anti-APRIL treated monkeys. The two antibodies had
a different effect on T cell subset activation and the profiles of ex vivo
released cytokines. In conclusion, treatment with anti-BLyS and anti-APRIL delays
the development of neurological disease in a relevant preclinical model of MS.
The two mAbs achieve this effect via different mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-012-9384-x 
PMCID: PMC3419352
PMID: 22870852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1678. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2013 Jan;225(2):329-39. doi:
10.1007/s00213-012-2815-9. Epub 2012 Aug 7.

Evaluation of dopamine D₂/D₃ and serotonin 5-HT₂A receptor occupancy for a novel 
antipsychotic, lurasidone, in conscious common marmosets using small-animal
positron emission tomography.

Nakazawa S(1), Yokoyama C, Nishimura N, Horisawa T, Kawasaki A, Mizuma H, Doi H, 
Onoe H.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Center for Molecular Imaging Science, 6-7-3 Minatojima-Minamimachi,
Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0047, Japan.

RATIONALE: Lurasidone is a novel antipsychotic drug with potent binding affinity 
for dopamine D(2) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)(2A), 5-HT(7), and
5-HT(1A) receptors. Previous pharmacological studies have revealed that
lurasidone exhibits a preferable profile (potent antipsychotic activity and lower
incidence of catalepsy) to other antipsychotic drugs, although the contribution
of receptor subtypes to this profile remains unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To compare target engagements of lurasidone with those of an atypical
antipsychotic, olanzapine, we performed evaluation of dopamine D(2)/D(3) and
serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor occupancy in vivo by positron emission tomography
(PET) with conscious common marmosets.
METHODS: We measured brain receptor occupancies in conscious common marmosets
after oral administrations of lurasidone or olanzapine by PET with
[(11)C]raclopride and
[(11)C]R-(+)-α-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenylethyl)]-4-piperidine
methanol (MDL 100907) for D(2)/D(3) and 5-HT(2A) receptors, respectively.
RESULTS: Increases in brain D(2)/D(3) receptor occupancies of both lurasidone and
olanzapine, which reached >80 % at maximum, were observed in the striatum with
significant correlations to plasma drug levels. However, lurasidone showed lower 
5-HT(2A) receptor occupancy in the frontal cortex within the same dose range,
while olanzapine showed broadly comparable 5-HT(2A) and D(2)/D(3) receptor
occupancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with olanzapine, lurasidone preferentially binds to
D(2)/D(3) receptors rather than 5-HT(2A) receptors in common marmosets. These
results suggest that the contribution of in vivo 5-HT(2A) receptor blocking
activity to the pharmacological profile of lurasidone might differ from
olanzapine in terms of the low risk of extrapyramidal syndrome and efficacy
against negative symptoms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-012-2815-9 
PMID: 22868411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

