

1678. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2013 Jan;225(2):329-39. doi:
10.1007/s00213-012-2815-9. Epub 2012 Aug 7.

Evaluation of dopamine D₂/D₃ and serotonin 5-HT₂A receptor occupancy for a novel 
antipsychotic, lurasidone, in conscious common marmosets using small-animal
positron emission tomography.

Nakazawa S(1), Yokoyama C, Nishimura N, Horisawa T, Kawasaki A, Mizuma H, Doi H, 
Onoe H.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Center for Molecular Imaging Science, 6-7-3 Minatojima-Minamimachi,
Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0047, Japan.

RATIONALE: Lurasidone is a novel antipsychotic drug with potent binding affinity 
for dopamine D(2) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)(2A), 5-HT(7), and
5-HT(1A) receptors. Previous pharmacological studies have revealed that
lurasidone exhibits a preferable profile (potent antipsychotic activity and lower
incidence of catalepsy) to other antipsychotic drugs, although the contribution
of receptor subtypes to this profile remains unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To compare target engagements of lurasidone with those of an atypical
antipsychotic, olanzapine, we performed evaluation of dopamine D(2)/D(3) and
serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor occupancy in vivo by positron emission tomography
(PET) with conscious common marmosets.
METHODS: We measured brain receptor occupancies in conscious common marmosets
after oral administrations of lurasidone or olanzapine by PET with
[(11)C]raclopride and
[(11)C]R-(+)-α-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenylethyl)]-4-piperidine
methanol (MDL 100907) for D(2)/D(3) and 5-HT(2A) receptors, respectively.
RESULTS: Increases in brain D(2)/D(3) receptor occupancies of both lurasidone and
olanzapine, which reached >80 % at maximum, were observed in the striatum with
significant correlations to plasma drug levels. However, lurasidone showed lower 
5-HT(2A) receptor occupancy in the frontal cortex within the same dose range,
while olanzapine showed broadly comparable 5-HT(2A) and D(2)/D(3) receptor
occupancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with olanzapine, lurasidone preferentially binds to
D(2)/D(3) receptors rather than 5-HT(2A) receptors in common marmosets. These
results suggest that the contribution of in vivo 5-HT(2A) receptor blocking
activity to the pharmacological profile of lurasidone might differ from
olanzapine in terms of the low risk of extrapyramidal syndrome and efficacy
against negative symptoms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-012-2815-9 
PMID: 22868411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1679. Am J Primatol. 2012 Nov;74(11):1044-53. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22058. Epub 2012 Aug 3.

Describing ovarian cycles, pregnancy characteristics, and the use of
contraception in female white-faced marmosets, Callithrix geoffroyi.

Mustoe AC(1), Jensen HA, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, USA.
amustoe@unomaha.edu

Endocrine data and characteristics of nonconceptive ovarian cycling and pregnancy
are limited within the genus Callithrix to the common marmoset (C. jacchus) and
Wied's black tufted-ear marmoset (C. kuhlii). This article presents patterns of
urinary pregnanediol-3-glucuronide (PdG) excretion, as determined by enzyme
immunoassay, throughout the course of ovarian cycling and pregnancy in
white-faced marmosets (C. geoffroyi). Furthermore, characteristics of
reproductive parameters including litter size, duration of gestation, maternal
age, and information about ovarian cycling following administration of
contraceptives are also described. A steep increase in PdG, an indication of
ovulation, characterizes normative ovarian cycles, with peak-to-peak intervals
between cycles being 27.82 ± 1.49 days in length. PdG excretion (μg/mg Cr) across
pregnancy peaked during the 1st and 2nd trimesters (1st = 20.71 ± 2.98, 2nd =
21.16 ± 2.60) and declined gradually to near preconception levels over the 3rd
trimester until parturition (3rd = 5.74 ± 1.60). Gestation lasted 148.55 ± 1.89
days. Most pregnancies (82.8%) resulted in an immediate postpartum ovulation
(PPO) of 17.45 ± 2.22 days with 58.3% of PPOs resulting in conception. No
differences in PdG excretion during the 1st trimester between full pregnancies
and miscarriages were found, and pregnancy characteristics such as litter size,
duration of gestation, and maternal age were not associated with PdG
concentrations. Administration of cloprostenol resulted in shorter peak-to-peak
cycle durations, but ovulation was detectable with similar concentrations of peak
PdG to a normal nonconceptive cycle. Conversely, medroxyprogesterone acetate
(DMPA) injections resulted in little to no PdG excretion across the ovarian
cycle. Both methods of contraception providing effective prevention of
conception. Overall, these results show that strong similarities in reproductive 
parameters persist within the genus Callithrix and to a lesser extent across the 
Callitrichidae family.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22058 
PMCID: PMC3460071
PMID: 22865351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

