

1680. J Toxicol Sci. 2012;37(4):749-63.

Increased expression of aquaporin-4 with methylmercury exposure in the brain of
the common marmoset.

Yamamoto M(1), Takeya M, Ikeshima-Kataoka H, Yasui M, Kawasaki Y, Shiraishi M,
Majima E, Shiraishi S, Uezono Y, Sasaki M, Eto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, National Institute for Minamata Disease,
Kumamoto, Japan. yamamoto@nimd.go.jp

The relationship between methylmercury (MeHg) exposure and aquaporin (AQP)
expression in the brain is currently unknown. To investigate this, we used a
common marmoset model of acute MeHg exposure to examine AQP1, AQP4 and AQP11 gene
expression. MeHg (1.5 mg Hg/kg/day p.o.) was given to three marmosets for 14
days, followed by 14 days without. All treated marmosets showed slight akinesia
before sacrifice. In the frontal lobe, occipital lobe and cerebellum, total
mercury concentrations following MeHg administration were 26.7, 31.4, and 22.6
Âµg/g, respectively. Slight apoptosis was observed in the occipital lobe.
Immunohistochemistry showed increased expression of glial fibrillary acidic
protein, its mRNA and Iba1 with MeHg, indicating that neuronal injury activated
astrocytes and microglia. There was no significant difference between control and
MeHg-administered groups in AQP1 protein or AQP11 mRNA in the frontal lobe,
occipital lobe or cerebellum. The ratio of AQP4 mRNA expression in
MeHg-administered marmosets to the mean AQR4 expression in the controls (n = 3)
were 1.3, 1.5 and 1.2, 1.7, 1.9 and 1.5, and 1.5, 1.6 and 1.2 for the frontal
lobe, occipital lobe and cerebellum, respectively. Western blotting showed
significantly increased AQP4 protein in the occipital lobe and cerebellum with
MeHg administration, but no obvious up-regulation in the frontal lobe.
Immunofluorescence analysis with double staining revealed low AQP4 expression in 
the cell body of reactive astrocytes in the MeHg-administered group. These
results indicate that AQP4 expression might be stimulated by MeHg exposure in
astrocytes in the occipital lobe and cerebellum, suggesting a role for AQP4 in
MeHg neurotoxicity via astrocyte dysfunction.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.37.749 
PMID: 22863855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1681. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e41175. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041175. Epub 2012 Jul 31.

The natural history of class I primate alcohol dehydrogenases includes gene
duplication, gene loss, and gene conversion.

Carrigan MA(1), Uryasev O, Davis RP, Zhai L, Hurley TD, Benner SA.

Author information: 
(1)Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution, Gainesville, Florida, United
States of America. mcarrigan@ffame.org

BACKGROUND: Gene duplication is a source of molecular innovation throughout
evolution. However, even with massive amounts of genome sequence data,
correlating gene duplication with speciation and other events in natural history 
can be difficult. This is especially true in its most interesting cases, where
rapid and multiple duplications are likely to reflect adaptation to rapidly
changing environments and life styles. This may be so for Class I of alcohol
dehydrogenases (ADH1s), where multiple duplications occurred in primate lineages 
in Old and New World monkeys (OWMs and NWMs) and hominoids.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To build a preferred model for the natural
history of ADH1s, we determined the sequences of nine new ADH1 genes, finding for
the first time multiple paralogs in various prosimians (lemurs, strepsirhines).
Database mining then identified novel ADH1 paralogs in both macaque (an OWM) and 
marmoset (a NWM). These were used with the previously identified human paralogs
to resolve controversies relating to dates of duplication and gene conversion in 
the ADH1 family. Central to these controversies are differences in the topologies
of trees generated from exonic (coding) sequences and intronic sequences.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We provide evidence that gene conversions are the
primary source of difference, using molecular clock dating of duplications and
analyses of microinsertions and deletions (micro-indels). The tree topology
inferred from intron sequences appear to more correctly represent the natural
history of ADH1s, with the ADH1 paralogs in platyrrhines (NWMs) and catarrhines
(OWMs and hominoids) having arisen by duplications shortly predating the
divergence of OWMs and NWMs. We also conclude that paralogs in lemurs arose
independently. Finally, we identify errors in database interpretation as the
source of controversies concerning gene conversion. These analyses provide a
model for the natural history of ADH1s that posits four ADH1 paralogs in the
ancestor of Catarrhine and Platyrrhine primates, followed by the loss of an ADH1 
paralog in the human lineage.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0041175 
PMCID: PMC3409193
PMID: 22859968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

