

1682. J Neurosci. 2012 Aug 1;32(31):10737-48. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3448-11.2012.

Neural correlates of the lombard effect in primate auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.

Speaking is a sensory-motor process that involves constant self-monitoring to
ensure accurate vocal production. Self-monitoring of vocal feedback allows rapid 
adjustment to correct perceived differences between intended and produced
vocalizations. One important behavior in vocal feedback control is a compensatory
increase in vocal intensity in response to noise masking during vocal production,
commonly referred to as the Lombard effect. This behavior requires mechanisms for
continuously monitoring auditory feedback during speaking. However, the
underlying neural mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that when
marmoset monkeys vocalize in the presence of masking noise that disrupts vocal
feedback, the compensatory increase in vocal intensity is accompanied by a shift 
in auditory cortex activity toward neural response patterns seen during
vocalizations under normal feedback condition. Furthermore, we show that neural
activity in auditory cortex during a vocalization phrase predicts vocal intensity
compensation in subsequent phrases. These observations demonstrate that the
auditory cortex participates in self-monitoring during the Lombard effect, and
may play a role in the compensation of noise masking during feedback-mediated
vocal control.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3448-11.2012 
PMCID: PMC3752069
PMID: 22855821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1683. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2012;83(1):47-55. doi: 10.1159/000339805. Epub 2012 Aug
1.

Can roads be used as transects for primate population surveys?.

Hilário RR(1), Rodrigues FH, Chiarello AG, Mourthé I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biology, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil. renatohilario@gmail.com

Line transect distance sampling (LTDS) can be applied to either trails or roads. 
However, it is likely that sampling along roads might result in biased density
estimates. In this paper, we compared the results obtained with LTDS applied on
trails and roads for two primate species (Callithrix penicillata and Callicebus
nigrifrons) to clarify whether roads are appropriate transects to estimate
densities. We performed standard LTDS surveys in two nature reserves in
south-eastern Brazil. Effective strip width and population density were different
between trails and roads for C. penicillata, but not for C. nigrifrons. The
results suggest that roads are not appropriate for use as transects in primate
surveys, at least for some species. Further work is required to fully understand 
this issue, but in the meantime we recommend that researchers avoid using roads
as transects or treat roads and trails as covariates when sampling on roads is
unavoidable.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000339805 
PMID: 22854794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

