

1683. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2012;83(1):47-55. doi: 10.1159/000339805. Epub 2012 Aug
1.

Can roads be used as transects for primate population surveys?.

Hilário RR(1), Rodrigues FH, Chiarello AG, Mourthé I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biology, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil. renatohilario@gmail.com

Line transect distance sampling (LTDS) can be applied to either trails or roads. 
However, it is likely that sampling along roads might result in biased density
estimates. In this paper, we compared the results obtained with LTDS applied on
trails and roads for two primate species (Callithrix penicillata and Callicebus
nigrifrons) to clarify whether roads are appropriate transects to estimate
densities. We performed standard LTDS surveys in two nature reserves in
south-eastern Brazil. Effective strip width and population density were different
between trails and roads for C. penicillata, but not for C. nigrifrons. The
results suggest that roads are not appropriate for use as transects in primate
surveys, at least for some species. Further work is required to fully understand 
this issue, but in the meantime we recommend that researchers avoid using roads
as transects or treat roads and trails as covariates when sampling on roads is
unavoidable.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000339805 
PMID: 22854794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1684. J Pharmacokinet Pharmacodyn. 2012 Oct;39(5):429-51. doi:
10.1007/s10928-012-9260-6. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Dynamics of target-mediated drug disposition: characteristic profiles and
parameter identification.

Peletier LA(1), Gabrielsson J.

Author information: 
(1)Mathematical Institute, Leiden University, PB 9512, 2300 RA, Leiden, The
Netherlands. peletier@math.leidenuniv.nl

In this paper we present a mathematical analysis of the basic model for target
mediated drug disposition (TMDD). Assuming high affinity of ligand to target, we 
give a qualitative characterisation of ligand versus time graphs for different
dosing regimes and derive accurate analytic approximations of different phases in
the temporal behaviour of the system. These approximations are used to estimate
model parameters, give analytical approximations of such quantities as area under
the ligand curve and clearance. We formulate conditions under which a suitably
chosen Michaelis-Menten model provides a good approximation of the full
TMDD-model over a specified time interval.

DOI: 10.1007/s10928-012-9260-6 
PMCID: PMC3446204
PMID: 22851162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

