

1684. J Pharmacokinet Pharmacodyn. 2012 Oct;39(5):429-51. doi:
10.1007/s10928-012-9260-6. Epub 2012 Aug 1.

Dynamics of target-mediated drug disposition: characteristic profiles and
parameter identification.

Peletier LA(1), Gabrielsson J.

Author information: 
(1)Mathematical Institute, Leiden University, PB 9512, 2300 RA, Leiden, The
Netherlands. peletier@math.leidenuniv.nl

In this paper we present a mathematical analysis of the basic model for target
mediated drug disposition (TMDD). Assuming high affinity of ligand to target, we 
give a qualitative characterisation of ligand versus time graphs for different
dosing regimes and derive accurate analytic approximations of different phases in
the temporal behaviour of the system. These approximations are used to estimate
model parameters, give analytical approximations of such quantities as area under
the ligand curve and clearance. We formulate conditions under which a suitably
chosen Michaelis-Menten model provides a good approximation of the full
TMDD-model over a specified time interval.

DOI: 10.1007/s10928-012-9260-6 
PMCID: PMC3446204
PMID: 22851162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1685. Exp Anim. 2012;61(4):389-97.

Experimental techniques for neuroscience research using common marmosets.

Tokuno H(1), Moriya-Ito K, Tanaka I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, 2–1–6 Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a species of New World monkeys.
Because of its ease of maintenance and breeding in laboratories, use of the
marmoset is growing rapidly in biomedical research. In neuroscience, the
marmosets are attracting more attention, since they have the developed cerebral
cortex which plays a key role in higher brain functions. In this review on
neuroscience research using the marmoset, experimental techniques developed in
our laboratory are summarized. We introduce artificial rearing of neonates,
stereotaxic surgery, neuroanatomy including virtual microscopy based on the
Internet technology, behavioral study using a large number of marmosets, and
primary neuron culture study.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.61.389 
PMID: 22850638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

