

1689. Int Immunol. 2012 Sep;24(9):593-603. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxs070. Epub 2012 Jul
25.

Double expression of CD34 and CD117 on bone marrow progenitors is a hallmark of
the development of functional mast cell of Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset).

Nunomura S(1), Shimada S, Kametani Y, Yamada Y, Yoshioka M, Suemizu H, Ozawa M,
Itoh T, Kono A, Suzuki R, Tani K, Ando K, Yagita H, Ra C, Habu S, Satake M,
Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Immunology and Allergology, Nihon University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Mast cells (MCs) are developed from hematopoietic progenitor cells and play an
important role in inflammation. Study of the kinetics of development and
accumulation of primate MC in vivo is crucial for the control of human
inflammatory diseases, as evolution of the immune system is quite rapid and
inflammation including MC response is considered to be different between mouse
and human. In the present study, we examined the development of MC from
hematopoietic progenitors of Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset), an
experimental animal of nonhuman primates. Bone marrow cells were fractionated for
the expression of CD34 and CD117 by cell sorting. MCs were developed in vitro or 
by transplanting the cells to NOD/SCID/IL-2γc knockout (NOG) mice. In vitro
culture of CD34(+)CD117(+) (double positive, DP) cells with stem cell factor
could generate high-affinity Fc epsilon receptor (FcεR)-expressing CD117(+) cells
with typical granules. The developed MC released β-hexosaminidase and produced
leukotriene C(4) after the stimulation of FcεRI. Transplantation of DP cells gave
rise to a marked expansion of CD34(-)CD45(+)CD117(+)FcεR(+) cells in NOG mice.
They expressed transcripts encoding chymase 1 and tryptase β. Differentiation of 
CD34(-)CD117(+) cells to MCs was relatively limited compared with the DP cells,
similarly to human MCs. These results suggest that this marmoset system provides 
a good model for human MC development.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxs070 
PMID: 22836021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1690. Am J Primatol. 2012 Nov;74(11):1028-34. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22056. Epub 2012 Jul 25.

Monomorphic region of the serotonin transporter promoter gene in New World
monkeys.

Pascale E(1), Lucarelli M, Passarelli F, Butler RH, Tamellini A, Addessi E,
Visalberghi E, Manciocco A, Vitale A, Laviola G.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze e Biotecnologie Medico-Chirurgiche, Sapienza
Università di Roma, Italy. esterina.pascale@uniroma1.it

Genetic variation in the human serotonin system has long been studied because of 
its functional consequences and links to various neuropsychiatric and
behavior-related disorders. Among non-human primates, the common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) and tufted capuchins monkeys (Cebus apella) are becoming
increasingly used as models to study the effects of genes, environments, and
their interaction on physiology and complex behavior. In order to investigate the
independent functions of and potential interactions between serotonin-related
genes, anxiety and neuropsychiatric disorders, we analyzed the presence and
variability of the serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region
(5-HTTLPR) in marmoset and capuchin monkeys. By PCR and using heterologous
primers from the human sequence, we amplified and then sequenced the
corresponding 5-HTT region in marmosets and capuchins. The resulting data
revealed the presence of a tandem repeat sequence similar to that described in
humans, but unlike humans and other Old World primates, no variable length
alleles were detected in these New World monkeys, suggesting that if serotonin
transporter is involved in modulating behavior in these animals it does so
through different molecular mechanisms.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22056 
PMID: 22833283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

