

1691. Acta Otolaryngol. 2012 Nov;132(11):1239-42. doi: 10.3109/00016489.2012.697639.
Epub 2012 Jul 25.

Experimental model of facial paralysis by nerve compression in primates
(Callithrix sp.): a new model of facial paralysis in small nonhuman primates.

Neiva FC(1), Borin A, Cinini S, Mello LE, Cruz OL, Testa JR.

Author information: 
(1)Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery Department, Federal University
of SãoPaulo/UNIFESP, São Paulo, Brazil.

CONCLUSION: We conclude that facial nerve injury induced by compression is
associated with a reasonable time window (4 weeks) that allows possible
neurotrophic effects to be analyzed. Additionally, there are no hints of
cross-innervation by the contralateral facial nerve or parallel innervation by
other nerves in the hemiface ipsilateral to the injured nerve.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this work was to develop an experimental model of facial
nerve injury in nonhuman primates (Callithrix sp.).
METHODS: In this study, individuals of the non-human primate species Callithrix
sp. were subjected to three different types of facial nerve injury, and they were
observed for 27 days after surgery by video to record their facial movements.
RESULTS: Two types of nerve compression caused severe initial facial paralysis
followed by gradual recovery until normal levels were reached at the end of the
evaluation period. Injury induced by nerve resection was followed by a complete
lack of facial movement recovery.

DOI: 10.3109/00016489.2012.697639 
PMID: 22830957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1692. J Neurosci Methods. 2012 Sep 30;210(2):195-201. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2012.07.009. Epub 2012 Jul 22.

Visualizing dopamine transporter integrity with iodine-123-FP-CIT SPECT in
combination with high resolution MRI in the brain of the common marmoset monkey.

Garea-Rodríguez E(1), Schlumbohm C, Czéh B, König J, Helms G, Heckmann C, Meller 
B, Meller J, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Kellnerweg
4, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany. egarea-rodriguez@cnl-dpz.de

Erratum in
    J Neurosci Methods. 2014 Jan 30;222:260.

Considerable progress has been made in small animal single photon emission
computed tomography (SPECT) imaging in the field of Parkinson's disease. In
preclinical research, there is an increasing demand for in vivo imaging
techniques to apply to animal models. Here, we report the first protocol for
dopamine transporter (DAT) SPECT in common marmosets using the radioligand
¹²³I-N-ω-fluoropropyl-2β-carbomethoxy-3β-{4-iodophenyl}nortropane (¹²³I-FP-CIT). 
Serial SPECT images were obtained on an upgraded clinical scanner to determine
the distribution kinetics of ¹²³I-FP-CIT in the marmoset brain. After intravenous
injection of approximately 60 MBq of the radiotracer ¹²³I-FP-CIT, stable and
specific striatal uptake was observed for at least 4h. Analysis of plasma samples
showed rapid disappearance of the radiotracer from blood plasma within a few
minutes after application, with activity declining to 4.1% of the administered
activity. Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 400 μm resolution
provided the details of the underlying anatomy. In a marmoset model of
Parkinson's disease, which was generated by unilateral injections of
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the nigro-striatal projection pathway, complete
loss of striatal DAT binding in combination with behavioral deficits was
observed. The presented study demonstrates that ¹²³I-FP-CIT SPECT is a suitable
tool to investigate DAT integrity in preclinical studies on common marmosets.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2012.07.009 
PMID: 22827895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

