

1692. J Neurosci Methods. 2012 Sep 30;210(2):195-201. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2012.07.009. Epub 2012 Jul 22.

Visualizing dopamine transporter integrity with iodine-123-FP-CIT SPECT in
combination with high resolution MRI in the brain of the common marmoset monkey.

Garea-Rodríguez E(1), Schlumbohm C, Czéh B, König J, Helms G, Heckmann C, Meller 
B, Meller J, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Kellnerweg
4, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany. egarea-rodriguez@cnl-dpz.de

Erratum in
    J Neurosci Methods. 2014 Jan 30;222:260.

Considerable progress has been made in small animal single photon emission
computed tomography (SPECT) imaging in the field of Parkinson's disease. In
preclinical research, there is an increasing demand for in vivo imaging
techniques to apply to animal models. Here, we report the first protocol for
dopamine transporter (DAT) SPECT in common marmosets using the radioligand
¹²³I-N-ω-fluoropropyl-2β-carbomethoxy-3β-{4-iodophenyl}nortropane (¹²³I-FP-CIT). 
Serial SPECT images were obtained on an upgraded clinical scanner to determine
the distribution kinetics of ¹²³I-FP-CIT in the marmoset brain. After intravenous
injection of approximately 60 MBq of the radiotracer ¹²³I-FP-CIT, stable and
specific striatal uptake was observed for at least 4h. Analysis of plasma samples
showed rapid disappearance of the radiotracer from blood plasma within a few
minutes after application, with activity declining to 4.1% of the administered
activity. Structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 400 μm resolution
provided the details of the underlying anatomy. In a marmoset model of
Parkinson's disease, which was generated by unilateral injections of
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the nigro-striatal projection pathway, complete
loss of striatal DAT binding in combination with behavioral deficits was
observed. The presented study demonstrates that ¹²³I-FP-CIT SPECT is a suitable
tool to investigate DAT integrity in preclinical studies on common marmosets.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2012.07.009 
PMID: 22827895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1693. Mol Biol Evol. 2012 Dec;29(12):3843-53. doi: 10.1093/molbev/mss186. Epub 2012 Jul
23.

Evolution of HLA-DRB genes.

Doxiadis GG(1), Hoof I, de Groot N, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Genetics and Refinement, Biomedical Primate Research
Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

The HLA region shows diversity concerning the number and content of DRB genes
present per haplotype. Similar observations are made for the equivalent regions
in other primate species. To elucidate the evolutionary history of the various
HLA-DRB genes, a large panel of intron sequences obtained from humans,
chimpanzees, rhesus macaques, and common marmosets has been subjected to
phylogenetic analyses. Special attention was paid to the presence and absence of 
particular transposable elements and/or to their segments. The sharing of
different parts of the same long interspersed nuclear element-2 (LINE2, L2) and
various Alu insertions by the species studied demonstrates that one precursor
gene must have been duplicated several times before the Old World monkey (OWM)
and hominid (HOM) divergence. At least four ancestral DRB gene families appear to
have been present before the radiation of OWM and HOM, and one of these even
predates the speciation of Old and New World primates. Two of these families
represent the pseudogenes DRB6/DRB2 and DRB7, which have been locked in the
genomes of various primate species over long evolutionary time spans.
Furthermore, all phylogenies of different intron segments show consistently that,
apart from the pseudogenes, only DRB5 genes are shared by OWM and HOM, and they
demonstrate the common history of certain DRB genes/lineages of humans and
chimpanzees. In contrast, the evolutionary history of some other DRB loci is
difficult to decipher, thus illustrating the complex history of the evolution of 
DRB genes due to a combination of mutations and recombination-like events. The
selected approach allowed us to shed light on the ancestral DRB gene pool in
primates and on the evolutionary relationship of the various HLA-DRB genes.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/mss186 
PMCID: PMC3494273
PMID: 22826457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

