

1695. Cereb Cortex. 2013 Sep;23(9):2136-45. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs196. Epub 2012 Jul
12.

Linkage between the midline cortical serotonergic system and social behavior
traits: positron emission tomography studies of common marmosets.

Yokoyama C(1), Kawasaki A, Hayashi T, Onoe H.

Author information: 
(1)Functional Probe Research Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Molecular Imaging
Science, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0047, Japan. chihiro@riken.jp

Serotonin is known to play an important role not only in regulating emotional
behaviors, but also in the formation of social behavior traits. To determine the 
location and serotonin function of brain areas involved in social behavior
traits, we tested serotonin transporter (SERT) binding and neural activity linked
with the social behaviors of common marmosets with positron emission tomography
using [(11)C]-3-amino-4-(2-dimetylaminomethyl-phenylsulfanyl)-benzonitrile and
[(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose, respectively. Factor analysis of behavioral measures
during a direct encounter between unfamiliar adult males identified three classes
of social behavioral traits: (1) aggressive, (2) anxious, and (3) unfriendly
(opposite of friendly). Voxel-based analysis revealed a significant association
between SERT binding with the social behavioral traits in the midline cortical
subregions. Aggressive and friendly traits are localized to the posterior
cingulate cortex, and the anxious trait is localized to the anterior cingulate
cortex. In addition, neural activity and functional connectivity of the posterior
and anterior cingulate cortices appear to be altered depending on the social
situation. These results suggest that the midline cortical serotonergic system is
crucial in social behavior traits and its subregions are functionally segregated 
in socio-emotional processing.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs196 
PMID: 22791806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1696. Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Jan;41(1):80-5. doi: 10.1177/0192623312452491. Epub 2012 Jul
10.

Inflammatory fibroid polyp in the duodenum of a common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Yokouchi Y(1), Imaoka M, Sayama A, Jindo T, Sanbuissho A.

Author information: 
(1)Medicinal Safety Research Laboratories, Daiichi-Sankyo Co., Ltd., Tokyo,
Japan. yokouchi.yusuke.uw@daiichisankyo.co.jp

A 32-month-old male common marmoset had a firm and white-colored mass in the
duodenal wall. The cut surface was smooth and grayish white in color.
Histologically, the mass consisted of a proliferation of spindle cells with an
oval to spindle-shaped nucleus and scant eosinophilic cytoplasm in a loose myxoid
or fibrotic background. Most of the lesion displayed no specific growth pattern
whereas some of the cells concentrated around the vessels and created an
onion-bulb structure. Additionally, marked inflammatory cellular infiltration,
mainly eosinophils, was observed throughout the lesion. Immunohistochemically,
the spindle cells were positive for vimentin, Î±-smooth muscle actin, fascin, and 
cyclin D1, and negative for S-100, factor VIII-related antigen, and c-kit. These 
histological and immunohistochemical features did not meet any differential
diagnoses such as gastrointestinal stromal tumor, inflammatory myofibroblastic
tumor, solitary fibrous tumor/hemangiopericytoma, smooth muscle tumor,
schwannoma, and hemangiosarcoma. Collectively, the authors diagnosed the mass as 
a lesion that corresponded to an inflammatory fibroid polyp (IFP) in humans. IFP 
is defined as a mesenchymal proliferation composed of spindle stromal cells,
small blood vessels, and inflammatory cells, particularly eosinophils, and is
currently classified as a nonneoplastic lesion. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the first case of spontaneous IFP in nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623312452491 
PMID: 22786945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

