

1696. Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Jan;41(1):80-5. doi: 10.1177/0192623312452491. Epub 2012 Jul
10.

Inflammatory fibroid polyp in the duodenum of a common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Yokouchi Y(1), Imaoka M, Sayama A, Jindo T, Sanbuissho A.

Author information: 
(1)Medicinal Safety Research Laboratories, Daiichi-Sankyo Co., Ltd., Tokyo,
Japan. yokouchi.yusuke.uw@daiichisankyo.co.jp

A 32-month-old male common marmoset had a firm and white-colored mass in the
duodenal wall. The cut surface was smooth and grayish white in color.
Histologically, the mass consisted of a proliferation of spindle cells with an
oval to spindle-shaped nucleus and scant eosinophilic cytoplasm in a loose myxoid
or fibrotic background. Most of the lesion displayed no specific growth pattern
whereas some of the cells concentrated around the vessels and created an
onion-bulb structure. Additionally, marked inflammatory cellular infiltration,
mainly eosinophils, was observed throughout the lesion. Immunohistochemically,
the spindle cells were positive for vimentin, α-smooth muscle actin, fascin, and 
cyclin D1, and negative for S-100, factor VIII-related antigen, and c-kit. These 
histological and immunohistochemical features did not meet any differential
diagnoses such as gastrointestinal stromal tumor, inflammatory myofibroblastic
tumor, solitary fibrous tumor/hemangiopericytoma, smooth muscle tumor,
schwannoma, and hemangiosarcoma. Collectively, the authors diagnosed the mass as 
a lesion that corresponded to an inflammatory fibroid polyp (IFP) in humans. IFP 
is defined as a mesenchymal proliferation composed of spindle stromal cells,
small blood vessels, and inflammatory cells, particularly eosinophils, and is
currently classified as a nonneoplastic lesion. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the first case of spontaneous IFP in nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623312452491 
PMID: 22786945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1697. J Comp Neurol. 2012 Sep 1;520(13):2941-56. doi: 10.1002/cne.23077.

Discrete ephrin-B1 expression by specific layers of the primate
retinogeniculostriate system continues throughout postnatal and adult life.

Teo L(1), Homman-Ludiye J, Rodger J, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University Clayton,
Victoria, 3800, Australia.

The molecular guidance cue ephrin-B1 has traditionally been associated with the
early development of the visual system, encompassing retinocollicular mapping as 
well as development and maturation of synapses. Although little is known about
its role in the visual system during the postnatal period and in adulthood,
recent studies have demonstrated the expression of ephrin-B1 in the adult mouse
brain, indicating a sustained role beyond early development. Therefore, we
explored the spatiotemporal expression of ephrin-B1 in the postnatal and adult
nonhuman primate visual system and demonstrated that a modulated expression
continued following birth into adulthood in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) 
and primary visual cortex (V1, striate cortex). This occurred in the layers
involved in bidirectional geniculostriate communication: layers 3Bβ, 4, and 6 of 
V1 and the parvocellular (P) and magnocellular (M) layers of the LGN.
Furthermore, discrete gradients between the ipsi- and contralateral inputs of the
P and M layers of the LGN evolved between 1 month following birth and the start
of the critical period (3 months), and continued into adulthood. We also detected
the postsynaptic expression of ephrin-B1 by excitatory cells in adult LGN and V1 
and a subset of interneurons in adult V1, suggestive of a more global rather than
subtype-specific role. Together these results suggest a possible role for
ephrin-B1 in the maturation of the primate retinogeniculostriate pathway
throughout postnatal life, extending into adulthood.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23077 
PMID: 22778007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

