

1699. Comp Med. 2012 Jun;62(3):225-8.

Septic tularemia in 2 cottontop tamarins(Sanguinus oedipus).

Guthrie AL(1), Gailbreath KL, Cienava EA, Bradway DS, Munoz Gutierrez JF.

Author information: 
(1)Virginia Zoo, Norfolk, Virginia, USA. aguthrie0665@gmail.com

Two captive cottontop tamarins (Sanguinus oedipus) died within 5 d of each other 
from systemic infection by Francisella tularensis (tularemia). One tamarin
experienced mild clinical signs, including malaise, anorexia, and a mucoid nasal 
discharge for 4 d before death, whereas the other experienced a more rapid
progression of disease that lasted less than 24 h. Differential diagnoses
included gram-negative septicemia by an organism such as Escherichia coli,
Salmonella, or Yersinia; protozoal infection such as Toxoplasma gondii or an
acute viral infection such as lymphocytic choriomeningitis. F. tularensis
infection was identified by F. tularensis-specific PCR in both primates. Possible
sources of infection include aerosol, biting arthropod vectors, and transmission 
via a rodent reservoir. This case report highlights the importance of tularemia
as a differential diagnosis in acute febrile illness in captive nonhuman
primates.


PMCID: PMC3364704
PMID: 22776056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1700. J Med Primatol. 2012 Oct;41(5):289-96. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2012.00552.x.
Epub 2012 Jul 9.

Changes in hematological and serum biochemical parameters in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) after inoculation with dengue virus.

Omatsu T(1), Moi ML, Takasaki T, Nakamura S, Katakai Y, Tajima S, Ito M, Yoshida 
T, Saito A, Akari H, Kurane I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology I, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo,
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Marmosets are susceptible to dengue virus (DENV) infection. However, 
blood parameter data and clinical signs of DENV-infected marmosets are limited.
METHODS: Blood hematological and serum biochemical values were obtained from
twelve DENV-inoculated and four mock-infected marmosets. Additionally, body
temperature and activity level were determined.
RESULTS: Five DENV-inoculated marmosets demonstrated thrombocytopenia, nine
demonstrated leucopenia, and five demonstrated an increase in the levels of AST, 
ALT, LDH, and BUN. Additionally, seven DENV-inoculated marmosets demonstrated
clinical signs including fever and decreases in activity. None of the four
mock-inoculated marmosets demonstrated changes in either hematological or
biochemical parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Marmosets inoculated with DENV exhibited clinical signs and changes 
in hematological and biochemical parameters. The results suggest that blood
parameter data and clinical signs could potentially be useful markers for
understanding the progress of DENV infection in studies using marmosets.

Â© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2012.00552.x 
PMID: 22775469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

