

17. Sci Rep. 2022 Jan 27;12(1):1487. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-04276-7.

Uniparental genetic markers to investigate hybridization in wild-born marmosets
with a mixed phenotype among Callithrix aurita and invasive species.

Nogueira DM(1), de Carvalho RS(2), de Oliveira AM(3), de Paula TS(3), Pereira
DG(4), Pissinatti A(5), Loiola SO(6), Carvalho EF(6), Silva DA(7), Bergallo
HG(7), Ferreira AMDR(8).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas e da Saúde,
Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro, BR-465, Km 07, Seropédica, Rio de
Janeiro, CEP 23897000, Brazil. denisemn@ufrrj.br.
(2)Programa de Educação Ambiental (PREA), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Genética, Instituto de Biologia Roberto Alcantara Gomes,
Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Primatologia, Universidade Santa Úrsula, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.
(5)Centro de Primatologia do Rio de Janeiro, INEA, Guapimirim, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.
(6)Laboratório de Diagnósticos por DNA, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro,
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(7)Departamento de Ecologia, Instituto de Biologia Roberto Alcantara Gomes,
Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(8)Departamento de Patologia e Clínica Veterinária, Universidade Federal
Fluminense, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The native marmoset of the Southeastern Atlantic Forest in Brazil is among the 25
most endangered primates of the world. Hybridization with alien species is one of
its main threats registered since the early 2000s based on phenotype, so far,
without genetic confirmation. Using uniparental molecular markers, we analyzed 18
putative hybrids, captured from 2004 to 2013 in different localities of the
Atlantic Forest. A nine base pair deletion in the SRY gene of C. aurita was used 
to investigate paternal ancestry. Maternal ancestry was assessed by DNA
sequencing of ca. 455 bp from the COX2 gene. Hybridization was confirmed for 16
out of the 18 marmosets since they inherited COX2 haplotypes of the alien C.
penicillata or C. jacchus and the SRY deletion specific to C. aurita. Two
individuals inherited both parental lineages of C. aurita, which is probably
related to backcrossing or hybrid interbreeding. The direction of hybridization
of females with the matrilineal lineage of invasive species with males descending
from the native lineage was predominant in our sampling. This is the first time
that hybridization between C. aurita and invasive species has been confirmed
through genetic analysis.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-04276-7 
PMCID: PMC8795268
PMID: 35087079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Front Neural Circuits. 2022 Jan 5;15:786740. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2021.786740.
eCollection 2021.

Effects of Cortical Cooling on Sound Processing in Auditory Cortex and Thalamus
of Awake Marmosets.

Jeschke M(1)(2)(3), Ohl FW(2)(4)(5), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
(2)Department Systems Physiology of Learning, Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology,
Magdeburg, Germany.
(3)Auditory Neuroscience and Optogenetics Group, Cognitive Hearing in Primates
Laboratory, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate Research,
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Institute of Biology, Otto-von-Guericke-University Magdeburg, Magdeburg,
Germany.
(5)Center for Behavioral Brain Sciences (CBBS), Magdeburg, Germany.

The auditory thalamus is the central nexus of bottom-up connections from the
inferior colliculus and top-down connections from auditory cortical areas. While 
considerable efforts have been made to investigate feedforward processing of
sounds in the auditory thalamus (medial geniculate body, MGB) of non-human
primates, little is known about the role of corticofugal feedback in the MGB of
awake non-human primates. Therefore, we developed a small, repositionable cooling
probe to manipulate corticofugal feedback and studied neural responses in both
auditory cortex and thalamus to sounds under conditions of normal and reduced
cortical temperature. Cooling-induced increases in the width of extracellularly
recorded spikes in auditory cortex were observed over the distance of several
hundred micrometers away from the cooling probe. Cortical neurons displayed
reduction in both spontaneous and stimulus driven firing rates with decreased
cortical temperatures. In thalamus, cortical cooling led to increased spontaneous
firing and either increased or decreased stimulus driven activity. Furthermore,
response tuning to modulation frequencies of temporally modulated sounds and
spatial tuning to sound source location could be altered (increased or decreased)
by cortical cooling. Specifically, best modulation frequencies of individual MGB 
neurons could shift either toward higher or lower frequencies based on the vector
strength or the firing rate. The tuning of MGB neurons for spatial location could
both sharpen or widen. Elevation preference could shift toward higher or lower
elevations and azimuth tuning could move toward ipsilateral or contralateral
locations. Such bidirectional changes were observed in many parameters which
suggests that the auditory thalamus acts as a filter that could be adjusted
according to behaviorally driven signals from auditory cortex. Future work will
have to delineate the circuit elements responsible for the observed effects.

Copyright © 2022 Jeschke, Ohl and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2021.786740 
PMCID: PMC8766342
PMID: 35069125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

