

1701. J Med Primatol. 2012 Aug;41(4):241-50. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2012.00550.x.
Epub 2012 Jul 6.

Parameters of haematology, clinical chemistry and lipid metabolism in the common 
marmoset and alterations under stress conditions.

Kuehnel F(1), Grohmann J, Buchwald U, Koeller G, Teupser D, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, Universität Leipzig,
Leipzig, Germany. friederike.kuehnel@vetmed.unileipzig.de

Common marmosets are suitable non-human primate models for many human diseases.
Standard values for blood parameters are required to evaluate physiological and
pathological situations. Two studies were conducted: study I to determine
standard values and study II to examine these under changed housing conditions.
In study I, all parameters for clinical chemistry were similar in range for both 
genders with these specifics: male marmosets had significantly higher total and
LDL cholesterol levels than females, whereas the mean corpuscular volume and the 
mean corpuscular haemoglobin were significantly lower than in females. In study
II, glucose, lymphocytes and salivary cortisol were significantly lower, and
faecal cortisol was increased during the change of housing conditions. In
conclusion, standard values for haematology and clinical chemistry for the common
marmoset were determined. Further on, parameters that are influenced by
relocation stress and its importance for experimental results are described.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2012.00550.x 
PMID: 22765494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1702. Theriogenology. 2012 Sep 15;78(5):1152-65. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.05.017. Epub 2012 Jul 3.

Sperm head morphometry in ejaculates of adult marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): a
model for studying sperm subpopulations and among-donor variations.

Valle RR(1), Nayudu PL, Leal CL, García-Herreros M.

Author information: 
(1)FMVZ, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

In humans and other mammals, sperm morphology has been considered one of the most
important predictive parameters of fertility. The objective was to determine the 
presence and distribution of sperm head morphometric subpopulations in a nonhuman
primate model (Callithrix jacchus), using an objective computer analysis system
and principal component analysis (PCA) methods to establish the relationship
between the subpopulation distribution observed and among-donor variation. The
PCA method revealed a stable number of principal components in all donors
studied, that represented more than 85% of the cumulative variance in all cases. 
After cluster analysis, a variable number (from three to seven) sperm
morphometric subpopulations were identified with defined sperm dimensions and
shapes. There were differences in the distribution of the sperm morphometric
subpopulations (P < 0.001) in all ejaculates among the four donors analyzed. In
conclusion, in this study, computerized sperm analysis methods combined with PCA 
cluster analyses were useful to identify, classify, and characterize various head
sperm morphometric subpopulations in nonhuman primates, yielding considerable
biological information. In addition, because all individuals were kept in the
same conditions, differences in the distribution of these subpopulations were not
attributed to external or management factors. Finally, the substantial
information derived from subpopulation analyses provided new and relevant
biological knowledge which may have a practical use for future studies in human
and nonhuman primate ejaculates, including identifying individuals more suitable 
for assisted reproductive technologies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.05.017 
PMID: 22763070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

