

1704. J Med Primatol. 2012 Aug;41(4):231-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2012.00551.x.
Epub 2012 Jul 2.

Prenatal stress programs lipid metabolism enhancing cardiovascular risk in the
female F1, F2, and F3 generation in the primate model common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Buchwald U(1), Teupser D, Kuehnel F, Grohmann J, Schmieder N, Beindorff N,
Schlumbohm C, Fuhrmann H, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, University of
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. buchwald@vmf.uni-leipzig.de

BACKGROUND: Many human diseases are modulated by intrauterine environment, which 
is called prenatal programming. This study investigated effects of prenatal
glucocorticoids on the lipid metabolism of three filial generations of common
marmosets.
METHODS: Pregnant primates were treated with dexamethasone during pregnancy. Body
weight and blood lipid parameters of adult female offspring (F1: n = 5, F2: n =
6, F3: n = 3) were compared with age-related female controls (n = 12).
RESULTS: F1, F2, and F3 offspring showed significantly lower percentage of plasma
n3 fatty acids than controls. F2 and F3 presented higher cholesterol levels, with
significantly more LDL cholesterol, significantly less HDL triglycerides and an
enhanced cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio. Body weight was not significantly
affected.
CONCLUSIONS: Prenatal dexamethasone led to higher amounts of cardiovascular risk 
factors and less protective parameters in female F1-F3 offspring. The
intergenerational consequences suggest prenatal programming through epigenetic
effects.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2012.00551.x 
PMID: 22748020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1705. Cells Tissues Organs. 2012;196(6):543-54. doi: 10.1159/000339010. Epub 2012 Jun
27.

Comparative marker analysis after isolation and culture of testicular cells from 
the immature marmoset.

Albert S(1), Wistuba J, Eildermann K, Ehmcke J, Schlatt S, Gromoll J, Kossack N.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Albert Schweitzer Campus 1, University of Münster, Münster,
Germany.

The marmoset monkey is a valuable model in reproductive medicine. While previous 
studies have evaluated germ cell dynamics in the postnatal marmoset, the features
of testicular somatic cells remain largely unknown. Therefore, the aim of this
study was to establish marmoset-specific markers for Sertoli and peritubular
cells (PTCs) and to compare protocols for the enrichment and culture of
testicular cell types. Immunohistochemistry of Sertoli and PTC-specific markers -
anti-müllerian hormone (AMH), vimentin (VIM), α-smooth muscle actin (SMA) - was
performed and corresponding RNA expression profiles were established by
quantitative PCR analysis (SOX9,AMH, FSHR,VIM, and SMA). For these analyses,
testicular tissue from newborn (n = 4), 8-week-old (n = 4) and adult (n = 3)
marmoset monkeys was used. Protocols for the enrichment and culture of testicular
cell fractions from the 8-week-old marmoset monkeys (n = 3) were evaluated and
cells were analyzed using germ cell- and somatic cell-specific markers. The
expression of AMH, VIM and SMA reflects the proportion and differentiation status
of Sertoli and PTCs at the RNA and the protein levels. While applied protocols
did not support the propagation of germ cells in vitro, our analyses revealed
that PTCs maintain their proliferative potential and constitute the dominant cell
type after short- and long-term culture. Expression of functionally meaningful
testicular somatic markers is similar in the human and the marmoset monkey,
indicating that this primate can indeed be used as model for human testicular
development. The PTC culture system established in this study will facilitate the
identification of factors influencing male sex differentiation and
spermatogenesis.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000339010 
PMID: 22739409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

