

1705. Cells Tissues Organs. 2012;196(6):543-54. doi: 10.1159/000339010. Epub 2012 Jun
27.

Comparative marker analysis after isolation and culture of testicular cells from 
the immature marmoset.

Albert S(1), Wistuba J, Eildermann K, Ehmcke J, Schlatt S, Gromoll J, Kossack N.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Albert Schweitzer Campus 1, University of Münster, Münster,
Germany.

The marmoset monkey is a valuable model in reproductive medicine. While previous 
studies have evaluated germ cell dynamics in the postnatal marmoset, the features
of testicular somatic cells remain largely unknown. Therefore, the aim of this
study was to establish marmoset-specific markers for Sertoli and peritubular
cells (PTCs) and to compare protocols for the enrichment and culture of
testicular cell types. Immunohistochemistry of Sertoli and PTC-specific markers -
anti-müllerian hormone (AMH), vimentin (VIM), α-smooth muscle actin (SMA) - was
performed and corresponding RNA expression profiles were established by
quantitative PCR analysis (SOX9,AMH, FSHR,VIM, and SMA). For these analyses,
testicular tissue from newborn (n = 4), 8-week-old (n = 4) and adult (n = 3)
marmoset monkeys was used. Protocols for the enrichment and culture of testicular
cell fractions from the 8-week-old marmoset monkeys (n = 3) were evaluated and
cells were analyzed using germ cell- and somatic cell-specific markers. The
expression of AMH, VIM and SMA reflects the proportion and differentiation status
of Sertoli and PTCs at the RNA and the protein levels. While applied protocols
did not support the propagation of germ cells in vitro, our analyses revealed
that PTCs maintain their proliferative potential and constitute the dominant cell
type after short- and long-term culture. Expression of functionally meaningful
testicular somatic markers is similar in the human and the marmoset monkey,
indicating that this primate can indeed be used as model for human testicular
development. The PTC culture system established in this study will facilitate the
identification of factors influencing male sex differentiation and
spermatogenesis.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000339010 
PMID: 22739409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1706. Cereb Cortex. 2013 Aug;23(8):1901-22. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs177. Epub 2012 Jun
26.

Contrasting patterns of cortical input to architectural subdivisions of the area 
8 complex: a retrograde tracing study in marmoset monkeys.

Reser DH(1), Burman KJ, Yu HH, Chaplin TA, Richardson KE, Worthy KH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia. david.reser@monash.edu

Contemporary studies recognize 3 distinct cytoarchitectural and functional areas 
within the Brodmann area 8 complex, in the caudal prefrontal cortex: 8b, 8aD, and
8aV. Here, we report on the quantitative characteristics of the cortical
projections to these areas, using injections of fluorescent tracers in marmoset
monkeys. Area 8b was distinct from both 8aD and 8aV due to its connections with
medial prefrontal, anterior cingulate, superior temporal polysensory, and ventral
midline/retrosplenial areas. In contrast, areas 8aD and 8aV received the bulk of 
the projections from posterior parietal cortex and dorsal midline areas. In the
frontal lobe, area 8aV received projections primarily from ventrolateral areas,
while both 8aD and 8b received dense inputs from areas on the dorsolateral
surface. Whereas area 8aD received the most significant auditory projections,
these were relatively sparse, in comparison with those previously reported in
macaques. Finally, area 8aV was distinct from both 8aD and 8b by virtue of its
widespread input from the extrastriate visual areas. These results are compatible
with a homologous organization of the prefrontal cortex in New and Old World
monkeys, and suggest significant parallels between the present pathways, revealed
by tract-tracing, and networks revealed by functional connectivity analysis in
Old World monkeys and humans.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs177 
PMCID: PMC3698368
PMID: 22735155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

