

1708. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2012 Jul 15;22(14):4723-7. doi: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2012.05.074.
Epub 2012 Jun 1.

The synthesis and SAR of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor
antagonists derived from tyrosine surrogates. Part 1.

Han X(1), Civiello RL, Conway CM, Cook DA, Davis CD, Macci R, Pin SS, Ren SX,
Schartman R, Signor LJ, Thalody G, Widmann KA, Xu C, Chaturvedula PV, Macor JE,
Dubowchik GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Sciences and Candidate Optimization (MSCO),
Bristol-Myers Squibb Research & Development, 5 Research Parkway, Wallingford, CT 
06492, USA. xiaojun.han@bms.com

We have systematically studied the effects of varying the central unnatural amino
acid moiety on CGRP receptor antagonist potency and CYP inhibition in a series of
ureidoamides. In this Letter, we report the discovery of compound 23, a potent
CGRP receptor antagonist with only weak CYP3A4 inhibition. Unlike the triptans,
compound 23 did not cause active constriction of ex vivo human cerebral arteries.
At doses of 0.3-1 mg/kg (s.c.), 23 showed robust inhibition of CGRP-induced
increases in marmoset facial blood flow, a validated migraine model. Ureidoamide 
23 derives from a novel amino acid, 1H-indazol-5-yl substituted alanine as a
tyrosine surrogate.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2012.05.074 
PMID: 22727645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1709. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2013 Jan;38(1):145-54. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2012.05.011. Epub 2012 Jun 21.

Chronic systemic administration of serotonergic ligands flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
enhance HPA axis responses to restraint in female marmosets.

Aubert Y(1), Bohl MA, Lange JR, Diol NR, Allers KA, Sommer B, Datson NA, Abbott
DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
WI, USA. auberty@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl

BACKGROUND: Flibanserin, a novel serotonin (5-HT)(1A) agonist and 5-HT(2A)
antagonist, has been shown to increase sexual desire and reduce distress in women
with Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder (HSDD). In marmoset monkeys, flibanserin
has demonstrated pro-social effects on male-female pairmates, while the classic
5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT suppresses female sexual behavior and increases
aggressive interactions between pairmates. Activation of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A)
receptors is known to stimulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
This study aims to characterize the effects of repeated flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
administration on the marmoset HPA axis and to elucidate endocrine correlates of 
altered marmoset pair behavior.
METHODS: Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol were examined at
baseline and during 5-HT(1A) agonist and restraint challenges in 8 female
marmoset monkeys receiving daily flibanserin (15mg/kg) and an additional 8 female
marmosets receiving 8-OH-DPAT (0.1mg/kg) for 15-16weeks. Corresponding vehicle
treatments were administered in a counterbalanced, within-subject design. All
females were housed in stable male-female pairs. Treatment-induced changes in
ACTH and cortisol levels were correlated with previously assessed marmoset pair
behavior.
RESULTS: While morning basal cortisol levels and HPA responses to a 5-HT(1A)
agonist challenge were not altered by chronic flibanserin or 8-OH-DPAT, both
treatments increased the responsiveness of the marmoset HPA axis to restraint.
Enhanced ACTH responses to restraint correlated with reduced sexual receptivity
and increased aggression in 8-OH-DPAT-, but not in flibanserin-treated female
marmosets.
CONCLUSIONS: Unaltered HPA responses to a 5-HT(1A) agonist challenge after
chronic flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT treatments indicate little or no
de-sensitization of the HPA axis to repeated 5-HT(1A) manipulation. Chronic
8-OH-DPAT, but not flibanserin, leads to aggravated ACTH responses to stress that
may contribute to anti-sexual and anti-social behavior between 8-OH-DPAT-treated 
females and their male pairmates. Despite similar flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
induced ACTH responses to restraint stress, flibanserin-treated females show
unchanged cortisol profiles. This is possibly due to flibanserin's regional
selectivity in 5-HT(1A) activation and concurrent 5-HT(2A) inhibition. The
contrasting restraint-related cortisol responses emulate contrasting behavioral
phenotypes of diminished pair-bond of 8-OH-DPAT-treated females compared to the
more affiliative pair-bond of flibanserin-treated females.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2012.05.011 
PMID: 22727480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

