

171. J Vet Med Sci. 2021 May 9;83(5):784-792. doi: 10.1292/jvms.20-0532. Epub 2021 Mar
18.

Reduced differentiation of intestinal epithelial cells in wasting marmoset
syndrome.

Niimi K(1), Takahashi E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Support Unit for Animal Resources Development, Research Resources Division,
RIKEN Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Research Resources Division, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa,
Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Wasting marmoset syndrome (WMS) is a serious disease in captive common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) colonies. Because of the high mortality rates, elucidation
of the underlying mechanisms is essential. In this study, we compared the
histopathology, the number of each epithelial cell in the jejunum and colon, and 
the expression patterns of some molecular markers between healthy and
WMS-affected marmosets. Atrophy of villi in the jejunum and mononuclear cell
infiltration in the lamina propria were observed in the intestinal tract of
WMS-affected marmosets. Although the numbers of transient amplifying cells and
tuft cells were increased, the number of goblet cells was obviously decreased in 
the jejunum and colon of WMS-affected marmosets compared to healthy marmosets. In
addition, the number of enterocytes in the jejunum was decreased in WMS animals. 
There was no apparent difference in the numbers of stem cells, enteroendocrine
cells, or Paneth cells. The expression of β-catenin and Tcf7l2 was increased in
WMS, and the co-existence of β-catenin and Tcf7l2/Cyclin D1 was observed around
the crypts in WMS-affected marmosets. These findings suggest that cell
proliferation continues, but cell differentiation is halted in the intestinal
tract due to the enhanced β-catenin/Tcf7l2/Cyclin D1signaling pathway in WMS,
which results in malfunction of the villus and mucosa.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.20-0532 
PMCID: PMC8182325
PMID: 33731497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Anim Cogn. 2021 Sep;24(5):1039-1056. doi: 10.1007/s10071-021-01497-1. Epub 2021
Mar 16.

Watching others in a positive state does not induce optimism bias in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), but leads to behaviour indicative of competition.

Adriaense JEC(1)(2)(3), Šlipogor V(4)(5), Hintze S(6), Marshall L(7), Lamm C(8), 
Bugnyar T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Evolutionary Cognition Group, Department of Anthropology, University of
Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. jessie.adriaense@uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences,
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. jessie.adriaense@uzh.ch.
(3)Social, Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience Unit, Department of Cognition,
Emotion, and Methods in Psychology, Faculty of Psychology, University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria. jessie.adriaense@uzh.ch.
(4)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences,
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(5)Department of Zoology, University of South Bohemia, Budweiss, Czech Republic.
(6)Division of Livestock Sciences, Department of Sustainable Agricultural
Systems, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences (BOKU), Vienna,
Austria.
(7)Bristol Veterinary School, Langford House, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(8)Social, Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience Unit, Department of Cognition,
Emotion, and Methods in Psychology, Faculty of Psychology, University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria.

Emotional contagion is suggested to facilitate group life by enhancing
synchronized responses to the environment. Cooperative breeders are an example of
a social system that requires such intricate coordination between individuals.
Therefore, we studied emotional contagion in common marmosets by means of a
judgement bias test. Demonstrators were exposed to an emotion manipulation (i.e.,
positive, negative, control), and observers perceived only the demonstrator's
behaviour. We predicted that the positive or negative states of the demonstrator 
would induce matching states in the observer, indicating emotional contagion. All
subjects' emotional states were assessed through behaviour and cognition, the
latter by means of a judgement bias test. Behavioural results showed a successful
emotion manipulation of demonstrators, with manipulation-congruent expressions
(i.e., positive calls in the positive condition, and negative calls and
pilo-erect tail in the negative condition). Observers showed no
manipulation-congruent expressions, but showed more scratching and arousal after 
the positive manipulation. Concerning the judgement bias test, we predicted that 
subjects in a positive state should increase their response to ambiguous cues
(i.e., optimism bias), and subjects in a negative state should decrease their
response (i.e., pessimism bias). This prediction was not supported as neither
demonstrators nor observers showed such bias in either manipulation. Yet,
demonstrators showed an increased response to the near-positive cue, and
additional analyses showed unexpected responses to the reference cues, as well as
a researcher identity effect. We discuss all results combined, including recently
raised validation concerns of the judgement bias test, and inherent challenges to
empirically studying emotional contagion.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-021-01497-1 
PMCID: PMC8360889
PMID: 33725202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

