

1710. Ann Anat. 2013 Jan;195(1):32-8. doi: 10.1016/j.aanat.2012.04.005. Epub 2012 May
17.

Mediodorsal thalamic nucleus receives a direct retinal input in marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus): a subunit B cholera toxin study.

de Sousa TB(1), de Santana MA, Silva Ade M, Guzen FP, Oliveira FG, Cavalcante JC,
Cavalcante Jde S, Costa MS, Nascimento ES Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology/Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Biosciences Center,
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, RN, Brazil. expeditojr@cb.ufrn.br

The mediodorsal thalamic nucleus is a prominent nucleus in the thalamus,
positioned lateral to the midline nuclei and medial to the intralaminar thalamic 
complex in the dorsal thalamus. Several studies identify the mediodorsal thalamic
nucleus as a key structure in learning and memory, as well as in emotional
mechanisms and alertness due to reciprocal connections with the limbic system and
prefrontal cortex. Fibers from the retina to the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus
have recently been described for the first time in a crepuscular rodent,
suggesting a possible regulation of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus by visual
activity. The present study shows retinal afferents in the mediodorsal thalamic
nucleus of a new world primate, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), using B
subunit of cholera toxin (CTb) as an anterograde tracer. A small population of
labeled retinofugal axonal arborizations is consistently labeled in small domains
of the medial and lateral periphery of the caudal half of the mediodorsal
nucleus. Retinal projections in the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus are exclusively 
contralateral and the morphology of the afferent endings was examined. Although
the functional significance of this projection remains unknown, this
retina-mediodorsal thalamic nucleus pathway may be involved in a wide possibility
of functional implications.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aanat.2012.04.005 
PMID: 22726524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1711. Mol Ecol Resour. 2012 Sep;12(5):950-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-0998.2012.03162.x.
Epub 2012 Jun 21.

Development and annotation of shotgun sequence libraries from New World monkeys.

Jameson NM(1), Xu K, Yi SV, Wildman DE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Medicine and Genetics, Wayne State University School of
Medicine, 540 East Canfield, Detroit, MI 48021, USA.

The draft genome sequences of several primates are available, providing insights 
into evolutionary and anthropological research. However, genomic resources from
New World monkeys are conspicuously lacking. To date, the genomes of only two
platyrrhine species, the common marmoset and the Bolivian squirrel monkey, have
been fully sequenced. This is especially limiting for comparative genomics
research, considering that New World monkeys are the most speciose primate group,
and platyrrhine genetic diversity is comparable to that of the catarrhines (i.e. 
apes and Old World monkeys). Here, we present the generation and annotation of
numerous sequence reads from the genomes of Spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth), Owl
monkey (Aotus lemurinus) and Uakari (Cacajao calvus), representing the three
platyrrhine families, Atelidae, Cebidae and Pitheciidae, respectively. These
sequencing reads were developed from gDNA shotgun libraries containing over 3000 
individual sequences with an average length of 726 bps. Of these sequences, 1220 
contain <20% repeats, and thus are potentially highly useful phylogenetic markers
for other platyrrhine species. Among them, a large number of sequencing reads
were found to match unique regions within the human (2462 sequences) and the
marmoset (2829 sequences) genomes. In particular, the majority of these
sequencing reads are from putatively neutrally evolving intergenic regions. Thus,
they are likely to be highly informative for inferring neutral evolutionary
patterns and genomic evolution for other New World monkeys.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-0998.2012.03162.x 
PMID: 22715851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

