

1712. Curr Opin Virol. 2012 Jun;2(3):357-62. doi: 10.1016/j.coviro.2012.02.007. Epub
2012 Mar 14.

An animal model that reflects human disease: the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Carrion R Jr(1), Patterson JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Texas Biomedical Research Institute,
San Antonio, TX 78227, USA.

The common marmoset is a new world primate belonging to the Callitrichidae family
weighing between 350 and 400 g. The marmoset has been shown to be an outstanding 
model for studying aging, reproduction, neuroscience, toxicology, and infectious 
disease. With regard to their susceptibility to infectious agents, they are
exquisite NHP models for viral, protozoan and bacterial agents, as well as
prions. The marmoset provides the advantages of a small animal model in high
containment coupled with the immunological repertoire of a nonhuman primate and
susceptibility to wild type, non-adapted viruses.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coviro.2012.02.007 
PMCID: PMC3378983
PMID: 22709521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1713. Am J Primatol. 2012 Oct;74(10):901-14. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22043. Epub 2012 Jun 15.

Establishing meal patterns by lickometry in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus): translational applications from the bench to the field and the clinic.

Ross CN(1), Power ML, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging, Department of Cellular and
Structural Biology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX
78245, USA. rossc4@uthscsa.edu

The ability to measure and interpret variables associated with feeding behavior
and food intake is essential to a variety of nonhuman primate study modalities.
The development of a technique to accurately and efficiently measure food intake 
and meal patterning in captivity will enhance both the interpretation of foraging
behavior in the wild as well as our ability to model clinically relevant human
feeding pathologies. In this study, we successfully developed the use of a rodent
lickometer system to monitor meal patterning in captive common marmosets. We
describe the modifications necessary for this type of instrumentation to be used 
successfully with marmosets. We define variables of interest that relate to both 
previous rodent literature and human clinical measures. Finally, we relate our
findings to potential translational value for both primate field research and
biomedical applications.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22043 
PMCID: PMC3423480
PMID: 22707067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

