

1713. Am J Primatol. 2012 Oct;74(10):901-14. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22043. Epub 2012 Jun 15.

Establishing meal patterns by lickometry in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus): translational applications from the bench to the field and the clinic.

Ross CN(1), Power ML, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging, Department of Cellular and
Structural Biology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX
78245, USA. rossc4@uthscsa.edu

The ability to measure and interpret variables associated with feeding behavior
and food intake is essential to a variety of nonhuman primate study modalities.
The development of a technique to accurately and efficiently measure food intake 
and meal patterning in captivity will enhance both the interpretation of foraging
behavior in the wild as well as our ability to model clinically relevant human
feeding pathologies. In this study, we successfully developed the use of a rodent
lickometer system to monitor meal patterning in captive common marmosets. We
describe the modifications necessary for this type of instrumentation to be used 
successfully with marmosets. We define variables of interest that relate to both 
previous rodent literature and human clinical measures. Finally, we relate our
findings to potential translational value for both primate field research and
biomedical applications.

Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22043 
PMCID: PMC3423480
PMID: 22707067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1714. Horm Behav. 2012 Jul;62(2):136-45. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2012.05.014. Epub 2012
Jun 15.

Maternal gestational androgens are associated with decreased juvenile play in
white-faced marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Birnie AK(1), Hendricks SE, Smith AS, Milam R, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha NE 68182,
USA. abirnie@unomaha.edu

Exposure to androgens during prenatal development shapes both physiological and
behavioral developmental trajectories. Notably, in rhesus macaques, prenatal
androgen exposure has been shown to increase rough-and-tumble play, a prominent
behavioral feature in males during the juvenile period in primates. While
macaques are an Old World, polygamous species with marked sexually dimorphic
behavior, New World callitrichine primates (marmosets and tamarins) live in
cooperative breeding groups and are considered to be socially monogamous and
exhibit minimal sexual dimorphism in social play, which suggests that androgen
may affect this species in different ways compared to macaques. In addition, we
previously described considerable variation in maternal androgen production
during gestation in marmosets. Here we tested the association between this
variation and variation in offspring rough-and-tumble play patterns in both males
and females. We measured testosterone and androstenedione levels in urine samples
collected from pregnant marmoset mothers and then observed their offspring's play
behavior as juveniles (5-10 months of age). In contrast to findings in rhesus
macaques, hierarchical regression analyses showed that higher gestational
testosterone levels, primarily in the second semester, were associated with
decreased rough-and-tumble play in juveniles, and this relationship appears to be
driven more so by males than females. We found no reliable associations between
gestational androstenedione and juvenile play behavior. Our findings provide
evidence to suggest that normative variation in levels of maternal androgen
during gestation may influence developmental behavioral trajectories in marmosets
in a way that contradicts previous findings in Old World primates.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2012.05.014 
PMCID: PMC3586234
PMID: 22705955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

