

1714. Horm Behav. 2012 Jul;62(2):136-45. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2012.05.014. Epub 2012
Jun 15.

Maternal gestational androgens are associated with decreased juvenile play in
white-faced marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Birnie AK(1), Hendricks SE, Smith AS, Milam R, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha NE 68182,
USA. abirnie@unomaha.edu

Exposure to androgens during prenatal development shapes both physiological and
behavioral developmental trajectories. Notably, in rhesus macaques, prenatal
androgen exposure has been shown to increase rough-and-tumble play, a prominent
behavioral feature in males during the juvenile period in primates. While
macaques are an Old World, polygamous species with marked sexually dimorphic
behavior, New World callitrichine primates (marmosets and tamarins) live in
cooperative breeding groups and are considered to be socially monogamous and
exhibit minimal sexual dimorphism in social play, which suggests that androgen
may affect this species in different ways compared to macaques. In addition, we
previously described considerable variation in maternal androgen production
during gestation in marmosets. Here we tested the association between this
variation and variation in offspring rough-and-tumble play patterns in both males
and females. We measured testosterone and androstenedione levels in urine samples
collected from pregnant marmoset mothers and then observed their offspring's play
behavior as juveniles (5-10 months of age). In contrast to findings in rhesus
macaques, hierarchical regression analyses showed that higher gestational
testosterone levels, primarily in the second semester, were associated with
decreased rough-and-tumble play in juveniles, and this relationship appears to be
driven more so by males than females. We found no reliable associations between
gestational androstenedione and juvenile play behavior. Our findings provide
evidence to suggest that normative variation in levels of maternal androgen
during gestation may influence developmental behavioral trajectories in marmosets
in a way that contradicts previous findings in Old World primates.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2012.05.014 
PMCID: PMC3586234
PMID: 22705955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1715. Mol Hum Reprod. 2012 Oct;18(10):477-88. Epub 2012 Jun 11.

The pluripotency factor LIN28 in monkey and human testes: a marker for
spermatogonial stem cells?

Aeckerle N(1), Eildermann K, Drummer C, Ehmcke J, Schweyer S, Lerchl A, Bergmann 
M, Kliesch S, Gromoll J, Schlatt S, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, D-37077 GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Mammalian spermatogenesis is maintained by spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs).
However, since evidentiary assays and unequivocal markers are still missing in
non-human primates (NHPs) and man, the identity of primate SSCs is unknown. In
contrast, in mice, germ cell transplantation studies have functionally
demonstrated the presence of SSCs. LIN28 is an RNA-binding pluripotent stem cell 
factor, which is also strongly expressed in undifferentiated mouse spermatogonia.
By contrast, two recent reports indicated that LIN28 is completely absent from
adult human testes. Here, we analyzed LIN28 expression in marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) and human testes during development and adulthood and
compared it with that in mice. In the marmoset, LIN28 was strongly expressed in
migratory primordial germ cells and gonocytes. Strikingly, we found a rare
LIN28-positive subpopulation of spermatogonia also in adult marmoset testis. This
was corroborated by western blotting and quantitative RT-PCR. Importantly, in
contrast to previous publications, we found LIN28-positive spermatogonia also in 
normal adult human and additional adult NHP testes. Some seasonal breeders
exhibit a degenerated (involuted) germinal epithelium consisting only of Sertoli 
cells and SSCs during their non-breeding season. The latter re-initiate
spermatogenesis prior to the next breeding-season. Fully involuted testes from a 
seasonal hamster and NHP (Lemur catta) exhibited numerous LIN28-positive
spermatogonia, indicating an SSC identity of the labeled cells. We conclude that 
LIN28 is differentially expressed in mouse and NHP spermatogonia and might be a
marker for a rare SSC population in NHPs and man. Further characterization of the
LIN28-positive population is required.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gas025 
PMCID: PMC3457707
PMID: 22689537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

