

1715. Mol Hum Reprod. 2012 Oct;18(10):477-88. Epub 2012 Jun 11.

The pluripotency factor LIN28 in monkey and human testes: a marker for
spermatogonial stem cells?

Aeckerle N(1), Eildermann K, Drummer C, Ehmcke J, Schweyer S, Lerchl A, Bergmann 
M, Kliesch S, Gromoll J, Schlatt S, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Mammalian spermatogenesis is maintained by spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs).
However, since evidentiary assays and unequivocal markers are still missing in
non-human primates (NHPs) and man, the identity of primate SSCs is unknown. In
contrast, in mice, germ cell transplantation studies have functionally
demonstrated the presence of SSCs. LIN28 is an RNA-binding pluripotent stem cell 
factor, which is also strongly expressed in undifferentiated mouse spermatogonia.
By contrast, two recent reports indicated that LIN28 is completely absent from
adult human testes. Here, we analyzed LIN28 expression in marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) and human testes during development and adulthood and
compared it with that in mice. In the marmoset, LIN28 was strongly expressed in
migratory primordial germ cells and gonocytes. Strikingly, we found a rare
LIN28-positive subpopulation of spermatogonia also in adult marmoset testis. This
was corroborated by western blotting and quantitative RT-PCR. Importantly, in
contrast to previous publications, we found LIN28-positive spermatogonia also in 
normal adult human and additional adult NHP testes. Some seasonal breeders
exhibit a degenerated (involuted) germinal epithelium consisting only of Sertoli 
cells and SSCs during their non-breeding season. The latter re-initiate
spermatogenesis prior to the next breeding-season. Fully involuted testes from a 
seasonal hamster and NHP (Lemur catta) exhibited numerous LIN28-positive
spermatogonia, indicating an SSC identity of the labeled cells. We conclude that 
LIN28 is differentially expressed in mouse and NHP spermatogonia and might be a
marker for a rare SSC population in NHPs and man. Further characterization of the
LIN28-positive population is required.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gas025 
PMCID: PMC3457707
PMID: 22689537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1716. J Physiol. 2012 Aug 15;590(16):4061-77. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.230409. Epub
2012 Jun 11.

Colour and pattern selectivity of receptive fields in superior colliculus of
marmoset monkeys.

Tailby C(1), Cheong SK, Pietersen AN, Solomon SG, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute C09, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

The main subcortical visual targets of retinal output neurones (ganglion cells)
are the parvocellular and magnocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) in the thalamus. In addition, a small and heterogeneous collection 
of ganglion cell axons projects to the koniocellular layers of the LGN, to the
superior colliculus (SC), and to other subcortical targets. The functional
(receptive field) properties and target specificity of these non-parvocellular,
non-magnocellular populations remain poorly understood. It is known that one
population of koniocellular layer cells in the LGN (blue-On cells) receives
dominant functional input from short-wavelength sensitive (S or ‘blue') cones.
Here we asked whether SC neurones also receive S cone inputs. We made
extracellular recordings from single neurones (n = 38) in the SC of anaesthetised
marmoset monkeys. Responses to drifting and flashed gratings providing defined
levels of cone contrast were measured. The SC receptive fields we recorded were
often binocular, showed ‘complex cell' like responses (On–Off responses), strong 
bandpass spatial frequency tuning, direction selectivity, and many showed strong 
and rapid habituation to repeatedly presented stimuli. We found no evidence for
dominant S cone input to any SC neurone recorded. These data suggest that S cone 
signals may reach cortical pathways for colour vision exclusively through the
koniocellular division of the lateral geniculate nucleus.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.230409 
PMCID: PMC3476648
PMID: 22687612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

