

1716. J Physiol. 2012 Aug 15;590(16):4061-77. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.230409. Epub
2012 Jun 11.

Colour and pattern selectivity of receptive fields in superior colliculus of
marmoset monkeys.

Tailby C(1), Cheong SK, Pietersen AN, Solomon SG, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute C09, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

The main subcortical visual targets of retinal output neurones (ganglion cells)
are the parvocellular and magnocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) in the thalamus. In addition, a small and heterogeneous collection 
of ganglion cell axons projects to the koniocellular layers of the LGN, to the
superior colliculus (SC), and to other subcortical targets. The functional
(receptive field) properties and target specificity of these non-parvocellular,
non-magnocellular populations remain poorly understood. It is known that one
population of koniocellular layer cells in the LGN (blue-On cells) receives
dominant functional input from short-wavelength sensitive (S or ‘blue') cones.
Here we asked whether SC neurones also receive S cone inputs. We made
extracellular recordings from single neurones (n = 38) in the SC of anaesthetised
marmoset monkeys. Responses to drifting and flashed gratings providing defined
levels of cone contrast were measured. The SC receptive fields we recorded were
often binocular, showed ‘complex cell' like responses (On–Off responses), strong 
bandpass spatial frequency tuning, direction selectivity, and many showed strong 
and rapid habituation to repeatedly presented stimuli. We found no evidence for
dominant S cone input to any SC neurone recorded. These data suggest that S cone 
signals may reach cortical pathways for colour vision exclusively through the
koniocellular division of the lateral geniculate nucleus.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.230409 
PMCID: PMC3476648
PMID: 22687612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1717. J Neurosci. 2012 Jun 6;32(23):7881-94. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4832-11.2012.

Color blobs in cortical areas V1 and V2 of the new world monkey Callithrix
jacchus, revealed by non-differential optical imaging.

Valverde Salzmann MF(1), Bartels A, Logothetis NK, Schüz A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology of Cognitive Processes, Max Planck Institute for
Biological Cybernetics, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.
matthias.valverde@tuebingen.mpg.de

Color vision is reserved to only few mammals, such as Old World monkeys and
humans. Most Old World monkeys are trichromats. Among them, macaques were shown
to exhibit functional domains of color-selectivity, in areas V1 and V2 of the
visual cortex. Such color domains have not yet been shown in New World monkeys.
In marmosets a sex-linked dichotomy results in dichromatic and trichromatic
genotypes, rendering most male marmosets color-blind. Here we used trichromatic
female marmosets to examine the intrinsic signal response in V1 and V2 to
chromatic and achromatic stimuli, using optical imaging. To activate the
subsystems individually, we used spatially homogeneous isoluminant color opponent
(red/green, blue/yellow) and hue versus achromatic flicker (red/gray, green/gray,
blue/gray, yellow/gray), as well as achromatic luminance flicker. In contrast to 
previous optical imaging studies in marmosets, we find clearly segregated color
domains, similar to those seen in macaques. Red/green and red/gray flicker were
found to be the appropriate stimulus for revealing color domains in
single-condition maps. Blue/gray and blue/yellow flicker stimuli resulted in
faint patch-patterns. A recently described multimodal vessel mapping approach
allowed for an accurate alignment of the functional and anatomical datasets.
Color domains were tightly colocalized with cytochrome oxidase blobs in V1 and
with thin stripes in V2. Thus, our findings are in accord with 2-Deoxy-D-glucose 
studies performed in V1 of macaques and studies on color representation in V2.
Our results suggest a similar organization of early cortical color processing in 
trichromats of both Old World and New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4832-11.2012 
PMCID: PMC6620961
PMID: 22674264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

