

1718. Am J Primatol. 2012 Jul;74(7):613-21. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22013.

The effects of group size and reproductive status on vigilance in captive
Callithrix jacchus.

Gosselin-Ildari AD(1), Koenig A.

Author information: 
(1)Interdepartmental Doctoral Program in Anthropological Sciences, Stony Brook
University, Stony Brook, NY 11794-4363, USA.
ashley.gosselin-ildari@stonybrook.edu

Previous work on mammals and birds has often demonstrated a negative relationship
between group size and individual vigilance. However, this relationship has
received only weak support in nonhuman primates. This result may be due to the
failure to distinguish different forms of vigilance such as antipredatory
vigilance and social monitoring. Here, we tested the effects of group size,
reproductive status (breeding vs. nonbreeding), and sex on antipredatory
vigilance and social monitoring in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).
Behavioral observations using one-zero sampling were conducted on adult members
of three captive groups of small, medium, and large size. Data were analyzed
using a series of general linear models (GLMs) analyses of covariance (ANCOVAs). 
We found an overall negative group size effect on antipredatory vigilance and
that breeders, especially breeding males, were significantly more vigilant than
nonbreeders. Conversely, we found that social monitoring increased with group
size. Unlike the results for antipredatory vigilance, neither breeders and
nonbreeders nor males and females differed in their amounts of social monitoring.
However, the effect of group size appeared to differ for nonbreeding males
compared to all other adults. Our results generally support the idea that
individuals in larger groups are safer with breeding males likely playing a
prominent role in protection from predation. The increase in social monitoring
may be related to increased reproductive competition with the presence of adult
offspring, but future studies need to clarify the target of social monitoring in 
both breeders and nonbreeders. Overall, the study underlines the importance of
distinguishing different forms of vigilance and other factors as they may
confound the effects of group size on antipredatory vigilance.

Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22013 
PMID: 22644577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1719. Chimerism. 2012 Apr-Jun;3(2):43-4. doi: 10.4161/chim.20729. Epub 2012 Apr 1.

Naturally occurring, physiologically normal, primate chimeras.

Sweeney C(1), Ward J, Vallender EJ.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, MA,
USA.

Callitrichids, South American primates including marmosets and tamarins, have
evolved a unique physiology. Twins share a placenta during gestation and exchange
stem cells, resulting in naturally occurring chimeric adults. Our study used a
quantitative PCR-based assay to address whether this chimerism was restricted to 
blood and other cells of the hematopoietic lineage or whether it extended to
other somatic tissues. These studies help to characterize species that have
adapted evolutionarily to pervasive chimerism, with every individual healthy and 
unperturbed. This experiment of evolution offers insight into transplantation and
histocompatibility, reproductive biology and behavior, and innate and adaptive
immunity.

DOI: 10.4161/chim.20729 
PMCID: PMC3442812
PMID: 22627807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

