

1721. J Neurophysiol. 2012 Aug 1;108(3):810-26. doi: 10.1152/jn.00500.2011. Epub 2012
May 16.

Level dependence of spatial processing in the primate auditory cortex.

Zhou Y(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205-2195,
USA. zhouyi@jhu.edu

Sound localization in both humans and monkeys is tolerant to changes in sound
levels. The underlying neural mechanism, however, is not well understood. This
study reports the level dependence of individual neurons' spatial receptive
fields (SRFs) in the primary auditory cortex (A1) and the adjacent caudal field
in awake marmoset monkeys. We found that most neurons' excitatory SRF components 
were spatially confined in response to broadband noise stimuli delivered from the
upper frontal sound field. Approximately half the recorded neurons exhibited
little change in spatial tuning width over a ~20-dB change in sound level,
whereas the remaining neurons showed either expansion or contraction in their
tuning widths. Increased sound levels did not alter the percent distribution of
tuning width for neurons collected in either cortical field. The
population-averaged responses remained tuned between 30- and 80-dB sound pressure
levels for neuronal groups preferring contralateral, midline, and ipsilateral
locations. We further investigated the spatial extent and level dependence of the
suppressive component of SRFs using a pair of sequentially presented stimuli.
Forward suppression was observed when the stimuli were delivered from "far"
locations, distant to the excitatory center of an SRF. In contrast to spatially
confined excitation, the strength of suppression typically increased with
stimulus level at both the excitatory center and far regions of an SRF. These
findings indicate that although the spatial tuning of individual neurons varied
with stimulus levels, their ensemble responses were level tolerant. Widespread
spatial suppression may play an important role in limiting the sizes of SRFs at
high sound levels in the auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00500.2011 
PMCID: PMC3424089
PMID: 22592309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1722. Eur J Neurosci. 2012 Jul;36(1):2063-76. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08121.x.
Epub 2012 May 16.

Breaking camouflage: responses of neurons in the middle temporal area to stimuli 
defined by coherent motion.

Lui LL(1), Dobiecki AE, Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
leo.lui@monash.edu

Camouflaged animals remain inconspicuous only insofar as they remain static. This
demonstrates that motion is a powerful cue for figure-ground segregation,
allowing detection of moving objects even when their luminance and texture
characteristics are matched to the background. We investigated the neural
processes underlying this phenomenon by testing the responses of neurons in the
middle temporal area (MT) to 'camouflaged' bars, which were rendered visible by
motion. These responses were compared with those elicited by 'solid' bars, which 
also differed from background in terms of their mean luminance. Most MT neurons
responded strongly to camouflaged bars, and signaled their direction of motion
with precision, with direction-tuning curves being only slightly wider than those
measured with solid bars. However, the tuning of most MT cells to stimulus length
and speed depended on the type of stimulus - in comparison with solid bars,
responses to camouflaged bars typically showed more extensive length summation,
weak end-inhibition, and stronger attenuation at high speeds. Moreover, the
emergence of direction selectivity was delayed in trials involving camouflaged
bars, relative to solid bars. Comparison with results obtained in the first (V1) 
and second (V2) visual areas, using similar stimuli, indicates that neural
computations performed in MT result in significantly stronger and more accurate
signals about camouflaged objects, particularly in situations in which these are 
relatively large and slow moving. These computations are likely to represent an
important step in enabling cue-invariant perception of moving objects,
particularly in biologically relevant situations.

© 2012 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2012 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08121.x 
PMID: 22591321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

