

1722. Eur J Neurosci. 2012 Jul;36(1):2063-76. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08121.x.
Epub 2012 May 16.

Breaking camouflage: responses of neurons in the middle temporal area to stimuli 
defined by coherent motion.

Lui LL(1), Dobiecki AE, Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
leo.lui@monash.edu

Camouflaged animals remain inconspicuous only insofar as they remain static. This
demonstrates that motion is a powerful cue for figure-ground segregation,
allowing detection of moving objects even when their luminance and texture
characteristics are matched to the background. We investigated the neural
processes underlying this phenomenon by testing the responses of neurons in the
middle temporal area (MT) to 'camouflaged' bars, which were rendered visible by
motion. These responses were compared with those elicited by 'solid' bars, which 
also differed from background in terms of their mean luminance. Most MT neurons
responded strongly to camouflaged bars, and signaled their direction of motion
with precision, with direction-tuning curves being only slightly wider than those
measured with solid bars. However, the tuning of most MT cells to stimulus length
and speed depended on the type of stimulus - in comparison with solid bars,
responses to camouflaged bars typically showed more extensive length summation,
weak end-inhibition, and stronger attenuation at high speeds. Moreover, the
emergence of direction selectivity was delayed in trials involving camouflaged
bars, relative to solid bars. Comparison with results obtained in the first (V1) 
and second (V2) visual areas, using similar stimuli, indicates that neural
computations performed in MT result in significantly stronger and more accurate
signals about camouflaged objects, particularly in situations in which these are 
relatively large and slow moving. These computations are likely to represent an
important step in enabling cue-invariant perception of moving objects,
particularly in biologically relevant situations.

© 2012 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2012 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08121.x 
PMID: 22591321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1723. Hear Res. 2012 Aug;290(1-2):37-44. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2012.05.002. Epub 2012
May 11.

Temporal bone characterization and cochlear implant feasibility in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Johnson LA(1), Della Santina CC, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering Dept., Johns Hopkins University, 412 Traylor Research
Building, 720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. luke.johnson@jhu.edu

The marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model for
studying behavioral and neural mechanisms related to vocal communication. It is
also well suited for investigating neural mechanisms related to cochlear
implants. The purpose of this study was to characterize marmoset temporal bone
anatomy and investigate the feasibility of implanting a multi-channel
intracochlear electrode into the marmoset scala tympani. Micro computed
tomography (microCT) was used to create high-resolution images of marmoset
temporal bones. Cochlear fluid spaces, middle ear ossicles, semicircular canals
and the surrounding temporal bone were reconstructed in three-dimensional space. 
Our results show that the marmoset cochlea is ∼16.5 mm in length and has ∼2.8
turns. The cross-sectional area of the scala tympani is greatest (∼0.8 mm(2)) at 
∼1.75 mm from the base of the scala, reduces to ∼0.4 mm(2) at 5 mm from the base,
and decreases at a constant rate for the remaining length. Interestingly, this
length-area profile, when scaled 2.5 times, is similar to the scala tympani of
the human cochlea. Given these dimensions, a compatible multi-channel implant
electrode was identified. In a cadaveric specimen, this electrode was inserted ¾ 
turn into the scala tympani through a cochleostomy at ∼1 mm apical to the round
window. The depth of the most apical electrode band was ∼8 mm. Our study provides
detailed structural anatomy data for the middle and inner ear of the marmoset,
and suggests the potential of the marmoset as a new non-human primate model for
cochlear implant research.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2012.05.002 
PMCID: PMC3394878
PMID: 22583919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

