

1723. Hear Res. 2012 Aug;290(1-2):37-44. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2012.05.002. Epub 2012
May 11.

Temporal bone characterization and cochlear implant feasibility in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Johnson LA(1), Della Santina CC, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering Dept., Johns Hopkins University, 412 Traylor Research
Building, 720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. luke.johnson@jhu.edu

The marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model for
studying behavioral and neural mechanisms related to vocal communication. It is
also well suited for investigating neural mechanisms related to cochlear
implants. The purpose of this study was to characterize marmoset temporal bone
anatomy and investigate the feasibility of implanting a multi-channel
intracochlear electrode into the marmoset scala tympani. Micro computed
tomography (microCT) was used to create high-resolution images of marmoset
temporal bones. Cochlear fluid spaces, middle ear ossicles, semicircular canals
and the surrounding temporal bone were reconstructed in three-dimensional space. 
Our results show that the marmoset cochlea is ∼16.5 mm in length and has ∼2.8
turns. The cross-sectional area of the scala tympani is greatest (∼0.8 mm(2)) at 
∼1.75 mm from the base of the scala, reduces to ∼0.4 mm(2) at 5 mm from the base,
and decreases at a constant rate for the remaining length. Interestingly, this
length-area profile, when scaled 2.5 times, is similar to the scala tympani of
the human cochlea. Given these dimensions, a compatible multi-channel implant
electrode was identified. In a cadaveric specimen, this electrode was inserted ¾ 
turn into the scala tympani through a cochleostomy at ∼1 mm apical to the round
window. The depth of the most apical electrode band was ∼8 mm. Our study provides
detailed structural anatomy data for the middle and inner ear of the marmoset,
and suggests the potential of the marmoset as a new non-human primate model for
cochlear implant research.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2012.05.002 
PMCID: PMC3394878
PMID: 22583919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1724. Theriogenology. 2012 Sep 1;78(4):811-6. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.03.029. Epub 2012 May 11.

Minimally invasive transabdominal collection of preimplantation embryos from the 
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hanazawa K(1), Mueller T, Becker T, Heistermann M, Behr R, Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Juntendo Nerima Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

A novel, minimally invasive, transabdominal embryo collection method
(transabdominal method) was developed as an alternative to a standard abdominal
incision for embryo collection in the common marmoset. The abdominal incision
method was used for 304 flushes using 36 female animals, whereas the
transabdominal method was used for 488 flushes using 48 females; successful
embryo collection rates were 48.0% and 48.4% (P > 0.05), respectively. These
techniques were successfully duplicated at another institute (German Primate
Center, DPZ). At that institution, successful embryo collection rates were 88.9% 
and 77.8% for the abdominal incision and transabdominal methods, respectively (P 
> 0.05), whereas the average numbers of preimplantation embryos obtained per
flush were (mean ± SD) 1.91 ± 0.35 and 1.71 ± 0.14 (P > 0.05). The transabdominal
method reduced animal stress, did not require incisional wound healing, and
enabled successive embryo recoveries to be done much sooner. More embryos in
early developmental stages (zygotes/morulae) were recovered using the
transabdominal method (76.1%) than the abdominal incision method (52.6%, P <
0.01). In contrast, recovery of arrested or abnormal embryos was not
significantly different between these two methods (9.8% and 8.3%). To verify
developmental ability of embryos recovered by the transabdominal method, transfer
of 28 normal embryos to 14 surrogate mothers yielded a nidation rate of 57%. Five
females sustained term pregnancies and eight neonates were born. This novel
transabdominal method will facilitate progress in marmoset developmental biology 
and embryology.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.03.029 
PMID: 22578624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

