

1724. Theriogenology. 2012 Sep 1;78(4):811-6. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.03.029. Epub 2012 May 11.

Minimally invasive transabdominal collection of preimplantation embryos from the 
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hanazawa K(1), Mueller T, Becker T, Heistermann M, Behr R, Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Juntendo Nerima Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

A novel, minimally invasive, transabdominal embryo collection method
(transabdominal method) was developed as an alternative to a standard abdominal
incision for embryo collection in the common marmoset. The abdominal incision
method was used for 304 flushes using 36 female animals, whereas the
transabdominal method was used for 488 flushes using 48 females; successful
embryo collection rates were 48.0% and 48.4% (P > 0.05), respectively. These
techniques were successfully duplicated at another institute (German Primate
Center, DPZ). At that institution, successful embryo collection rates were 88.9% 
and 77.8% for the abdominal incision and transabdominal methods, respectively (P 
> 0.05), whereas the average numbers of preimplantation embryos obtained per
flush were (mean ± SD) 1.91 ± 0.35 and 1.71 ± 0.14 (P > 0.05). The transabdominal
method reduced animal stress, did not require incisional wound healing, and
enabled successive embryo recoveries to be done much sooner. More embryos in
early developmental stages (zygotes/morulae) were recovered using the
transabdominal method (76.1%) than the abdominal incision method (52.6%, P <
0.01). In contrast, recovery of arrested or abnormal embryos was not
significantly different between these two methods (9.8% and 8.3%). To verify
developmental ability of embryos recovered by the transabdominal method, transfer
of 28 normal embryos to 14 surrogate mothers yielded a nidation rate of 57%. Five
females sustained term pregnancies and eight neonates were born. This novel
transabdominal method will facilitate progress in marmoset developmental biology 
and embryology.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.03.029 
PMID: 22578624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1725. Anim Cogn. 2012 Sep;15(5):1021-30. doi: 10.1007/s10071-012-0511-0. Epub 2012 May 
11.

Performance on patterned string problems by common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Gagne M(1), Levesque K, Nutile L, Locurto C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, College of the Holy Cross, 1 College Street, P.O.
Box 75A, Worcester, MA 01610, USA.

This experiment examined the performance of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
on a series of patterned string problems to assess the marmosets' understanding
of means-ends relationships. One marmoset, Jet, was exposed to a series of
problems that were ordered in terms of perceived difficulty during two testings
that were separated by 1 year. In the second testing, Jet received problems that 
had been used during the first testing along with three new problems. Each of the
new problems was designed to be an exemplar of the type of problem that Jet had
experienced difficulty with in the first testing. A second marmoset, Peaches, was
tested on the same set of problems given to Jet in the second testing. Results
indicated that the marmosets' performance on these problems fell into three
categories. In one category, some problems were solved without evidence of
trial-and-error learning. In a second category, there were problems in which the 
marmosets responded at chance levels initially but evidenced improvement as a
function of extended testing. In a third category, some problems appeared to be
virtually unsolvable even with extended testing. Taken together, these results
indicate that the marmosets were able to learn the means-ends connection between 
pulling a string and obtaining food. This learning was best characterized as a
trial-and-error process for some problem forms, while for others there appeared
to be rapid learning that did not require extensive practice. The instances of
rapid learning may be the result of the application of a simple spatial proximity
rule in which the marmosets chose the string that was closest to an imaginary
line drawn between the marmoset and the reinforcer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-012-0511-0 
PMCID: PMC3425667
PMID: 22576582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

