

1725. Anim Cogn. 2012 Sep;15(5):1021-30. doi: 10.1007/s10071-012-0511-0. Epub 2012 May 
11.

Performance on patterned string problems by common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Gagne M(1), Levesque K, Nutile L, Locurto C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, College of the Holy Cross, 1 College Street, P.O.
Box 75A, Worcester, MA 01610, USA.

This experiment examined the performance of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
on a series of patterned string problems to assess the marmosets' understanding
of means-ends relationships. One marmoset, Jet, was exposed to a series of
problems that were ordered in terms of perceived difficulty during two testings
that were separated by 1 year. In the second testing, Jet received problems that 
had been used during the first testing along with three new problems. Each of the
new problems was designed to be an exemplar of the type of problem that Jet had
experienced difficulty with in the first testing. A second marmoset, Peaches, was
tested on the same set of problems given to Jet in the second testing. Results
indicated that the marmosets' performance on these problems fell into three
categories. In one category, some problems were solved without evidence of
trial-and-error learning. In a second category, there were problems in which the 
marmosets responded at chance levels initially but evidenced improvement as a
function of extended testing. In a third category, some problems appeared to be
virtually unsolvable even with extended testing. Taken together, these results
indicate that the marmosets were able to learn the means-ends connection between 
pulling a string and obtaining food. This learning was best characterized as a
trial-and-error process for some problem forms, while for others there appeared
to be rapid learning that did not require extensive practice. The instances of
rapid learning may be the result of the application of a simple spatial proximity
rule in which the marmosets chose the string that was closest to an imaginary
line drawn between the marmoset and the reinforcer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-012-0511-0 
PMCID: PMC3425667
PMID: 22576582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1726. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e37477. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037477. Epub 2012 May 4.

Co-evolution of primate SAMHD1 and lentivirus Vpx leads to the loss of the vpx
gene in HIV-1 ancestor.

Zhang C(1), de Silva S, Wang JH, Wu L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Life Sciences, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, China.
zhangcy1999@ips.ac.cn

Cross-species transmission and adaptation of simian immunodeficiency viruses
(SIVs) to humans have given rise to human immunodeficiency viruses (HIVs). HIV
type 1 (HIV-1) and type 2 (HIV-2) were derived from SIVs that infected chimpanzee
(SIVcpz) and sooty mangabey (SIVsm), respectively. The HIV-1 restriction factor
SAMHD1 inhibits HIV-1 infection in human myeloid cells and can be counteracted by
the Vpx protein of HIV-2 and the SIVsm lineage. However, HIV-1 and its ancestor
SIVcpz do not encode a Vpx protein and HIV-1 has not evolved a mechanism to
overcome SAMHD1-mediated restriction. Here we show that the co-evolution of
primate SAMHD1 and lentivirus Vpx leads to the loss of the vpx gene in SIVcpz and
HIV-1. We found evidence for positive selection of SAMHD1 in orangutan, gibbon,
rhesus macaque, and marmoset, but not in human, chimpanzee and gorilla that are
natural hosts of Vpx-negative HIV-1, SIVcpz and SIVgor, respectively, indicating 
that vpx drives the evolution of primate SAMHD1. Ancestral host state
reconstruction and temporal dynamic analyses suggest that the most recent common 
ancestor of SIVrcm, SIVmnd, SIVcpz, SIVgor and HIV-1 was a SIV that had a vpx
gene; however, the vpx gene of SIVcpz was lost approximately 3643 to 2969 years
ago during the infection of chimpanzees. Thus, HIV-1 could not inherit the lost
vpx gene from its ancestor SIVcpz. The lack of Vpx in HIV-1 results in restricted
infection in myeloid cells that are important for antiviral immunity, which could
contribute to the AIDS pandemic by escaping the immune responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037477 
PMCID: PMC3345027
PMID: 22574228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

