

1726. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e37477. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037477. Epub 2012 May 4.

Co-evolution of primate SAMHD1 and lentivirus Vpx leads to the loss of the vpx
gene in HIV-1 ancestor.

Zhang C(1), de Silva S, Wang JH, Wu L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Life Sciences, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, China.
zhangcy1999@ips.ac.cn

Cross-species transmission and adaptation of simian immunodeficiency viruses
(SIVs) to humans have given rise to human immunodeficiency viruses (HIVs). HIV
type 1 (HIV-1) and type 2 (HIV-2) were derived from SIVs that infected chimpanzee
(SIVcpz) and sooty mangabey (SIVsm), respectively. The HIV-1 restriction factor
SAMHD1 inhibits HIV-1 infection in human myeloid cells and can be counteracted by
the Vpx protein of HIV-2 and the SIVsm lineage. However, HIV-1 and its ancestor
SIVcpz do not encode a Vpx protein and HIV-1 has not evolved a mechanism to
overcome SAMHD1-mediated restriction. Here we show that the co-evolution of
primate SAMHD1 and lentivirus Vpx leads to the loss of the vpx gene in SIVcpz and
HIV-1. We found evidence for positive selection of SAMHD1 in orangutan, gibbon,
rhesus macaque, and marmoset, but not in human, chimpanzee and gorilla that are
natural hosts of Vpx-negative HIV-1, SIVcpz and SIVgor, respectively, indicating 
that vpx drives the evolution of primate SAMHD1. Ancestral host state
reconstruction and temporal dynamic analyses suggest that the most recent common 
ancestor of SIVrcm, SIVmnd, SIVcpz, SIVgor and HIV-1 was a SIV that had a vpx
gene; however, the vpx gene of SIVcpz was lost approximately 3643 to 2969 years
ago during the infection of chimpanzees. Thus, HIV-1 could not inherit the lost
vpx gene from its ancestor SIVcpz. The lack of Vpx in HIV-1 results in restricted
infection in myeloid cells that are important for antiviral immunity, which could
contribute to the AIDS pandemic by escaping the immune responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037477 
PMCID: PMC3345027
PMID: 22574228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1727. Cells Tissues Organs. 2012;196(3):206-20. doi: 10.1159/000335031. Epub 2012 May
8.

Developmental expression of the pluripotency factor sal-like protein 4 in the
monkey, human and mouse testis: restriction to premeiotic germ cells.

Eildermann K(1), Aeckerle N, Debowski K, Godmann M, Christiansen H, Heistermann
M, Schweyer S, Bergmann M, Kliesch S, Gromoll J, Ehmcke J, Schlatt S, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Göttingen, Germany.

SALL4 (sal-like protein 4) is a pluripotency transcription factor, which is
highly expressed in embryonic stem (ES) cells and which is essential for mouse
preimplantation development. In adult mouse organs, Sall4 mRNA is highly
expressed in the testis and ovary, while there is only little or no expression in
other organs. There is also a high expression of SALL4 in human testicular germ
cell tumors. However, there is as yet no detailed analysis of SALL4 expression
during mammalian testicular development. We analyzed SALL4 expression in ES
cells, preimplantation embryos, and the developing and adult testis of a nonhuman
primate (NHP) species, the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).
Immunofluorescence revealed SALL4 in the nuclei of marmoset ES cells and
preimplantation embryos. Marmoset SALL4 isoform analysis in ES cells and newborn 
and adult testis by RT- PCR and Western blotting showed two different isoforms,
SALL4-A and SALL4-B. Immunohistochemistry localized this transcription factor to 
the nuclei of primordial germ cells and most gonocytes in the prenatal and early 
postnatal marmoset testis. In the pubertal and adult testis SALL4 was present in 
undifferentiated spermatogonia. In the developing and adult human and mouse
testis SALL4 expression mimicked the pattern in the marmoset. Adult testes from
additional NHP species, the treeshrew, the cat and the dog also exhibited SALL4
in undifferentiated spermatogonia, indicating a conserved expression in the
mammalian testis. Taking into account the importance of SALL4 for mouse
development, we conclude that SALL4 may play an important role during mammalian
germ cell development and is involved in the regulation of spermatogonial
proliferation in the adult testis.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000335031 
PMID: 22572102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

