

1727. Cells Tissues Organs. 2012;196(3):206-20. doi: 10.1159/000335031. Epub 2012 May
8.

Developmental expression of the pluripotency factor sal-like protein 4 in the
monkey, human and mouse testis: restriction to premeiotic germ cells.

Eildermann K(1), Aeckerle N, Debowski K, Godmann M, Christiansen H, Heistermann
M, Schweyer S, Bergmann M, Kliesch S, Gromoll J, Ehmcke J, Schlatt S, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Göttingen, Germany.

SALL4 (sal-like protein 4) is a pluripotency transcription factor, which is
highly expressed in embryonic stem (ES) cells and which is essential for mouse
preimplantation development. In adult mouse organs, Sall4 mRNA is highly
expressed in the testis and ovary, while there is only little or no expression in
other organs. There is also a high expression of SALL4 in human testicular germ
cell tumors. However, there is as yet no detailed analysis of SALL4 expression
during mammalian testicular development. We analyzed SALL4 expression in ES
cells, preimplantation embryos, and the developing and adult testis of a nonhuman
primate (NHP) species, the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).
Immunofluorescence revealed SALL4 in the nuclei of marmoset ES cells and
preimplantation embryos. Marmoset SALL4 isoform analysis in ES cells and newborn 
and adult testis by RT- PCR and Western blotting showed two different isoforms,
SALL4-A and SALL4-B. Immunohistochemistry localized this transcription factor to 
the nuclei of primordial germ cells and most gonocytes in the prenatal and early 
postnatal marmoset testis. In the pubertal and adult testis SALL4 was present in 
undifferentiated spermatogonia. In the developing and adult human and mouse
testis SALL4 expression mimicked the pattern in the marmoset. Adult testes from
additional NHP species, the treeshrew, the cat and the dog also exhibited SALL4
in undifferentiated spermatogonia, indicating a conserved expression in the
mammalian testis. Taking into account the importance of SALL4 for mouse
development, we conclude that SALL4 may play an important role during mammalian
germ cell development and is involved in the regulation of spermatogonial
proliferation in the adult testis.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000335031 
PMID: 22572102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1728. Vis Neurosci. 2012 May;29(3):157-68. doi: 10.1017/S095252381200017X. Epub 2012
May 8.

Amacrine and bipolar inputs to midget and parasol ganglion cells in marmoset
retina.

Abbott CJ(1), Percival KA, Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Retinal ganglion cells receive excitatory synapses from bipolar cells and
inhibitory synapses from amacrine cells. Previous studies in primate suggest that
the strength of inhibitory amacrine input is greater to cells in peripheral
retina than to foveal (central) cells. A comprehensive study of a large number of
ganglion cells at different eccentricities, however, is still lacking. Here, we
compared the amacrine and bipolar input to midget and parasol ganglion cells in
central and peripheral retina of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Ganglion cells
were labeled by retrograde filling from the lateral geniculate nucleus or by
intracellular injection. Presumed amacrine input was identified with antibodies
against gephyrin; presumed bipolar input was identified with antibodies against
the GluR4 subunit of the AMPA receptor. In vertical sections, about 40% of
gephyrin immunoreactive (IR) puncta were colocalized with GABAA receptor
subunits, whereas immunoreactivity for gephyrin and GluR4 was found at distinct
sets of puncta. The density of gephyrin IR puncta associated with ganglion cell
dendrites was comparable for midget and parasol cells at all eccentricities
studied (up to 2 mm or about 16 degrees of visual angle for midget cells and up
to 10 mm or >80 degrees of visual angle for parasol cells). In central retina,
the densities of gephyrin IR and GluR4 IR puncta associated with the dendrites of
midget and parasol cells are comparable, but the average density of GluR4 IR
puncta decreased slightly in peripheral parasol cells. These anatomical results
indicate that the ratio of amacrine to bipolar input does not account for the
distinct functional properties of parasol and midget cells or for functional
differences between cells of the same type in central and peripheral retina.

DOI: 10.1017/S095252381200017X 
PMID: 22564345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

