

1728. Vis Neurosci. 2012 May;29(3):157-68. doi: 10.1017/S095252381200017X. Epub 2012
May 8.

Amacrine and bipolar inputs to midget and parasol ganglion cells in marmoset
retina.

Abbott CJ(1), Percival KA, Martin PR, GrÃ¼nert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Retinal ganglion cells receive excitatory synapses from bipolar cells and
inhibitory synapses from amacrine cells. Previous studies in primate suggest that
the strength of inhibitory amacrine input is greater to cells in peripheral
retina than to foveal (central) cells. A comprehensive study of a large number of
ganglion cells at different eccentricities, however, is still lacking. Here, we
compared the amacrine and bipolar input to midget and parasol ganglion cells in
central and peripheral retina of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Ganglion cells
were labeled by retrograde filling from the lateral geniculate nucleus or by
intracellular injection. Presumed amacrine input was identified with antibodies
against gephyrin; presumed bipolar input was identified with antibodies against
the GluR4 subunit of the AMPA receptor. In vertical sections, about 40% of
gephyrin immunoreactive (IR) puncta were colocalized with GABAA receptor
subunits, whereas immunoreactivity for gephyrin and GluR4 was found at distinct
sets of puncta. The density of gephyrin IR puncta associated with ganglion cell
dendrites was comparable for midget and parasol cells at all eccentricities
studied (up to 2 mm or about 16 degrees of visual angle for midget cells and up
to 10 mm or >80 degrees of visual angle for parasol cells). In central retina,
the densities of gephyrin IR and GluR4 IR puncta associated with the dendrites of
midget and parasol cells are comparable, but the average density of GluR4 IR
puncta decreased slightly in peripheral parasol cells. These anatomical results
indicate that the ratio of amacrine to bipolar input does not account for the
distinct functional properties of parasol and midget cells or for functional
differences between cells of the same type in central and peripheral retina.

DOI: 10.1017/S095252381200017X 
PMID: 22564345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1729. Stem Cells Int. 2012;2012:417865. doi: 10.1155/2012/417865. Epub 2012 Mar 20.

Derivation of neural progenitors and retinal pigment epithelium from common
marmoset and human pluripotent stem cells.

Torrez LB(1), Perez Y, Yang J, Zur Nieden NI, Klassen H, Liew CG.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Center, Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, University of
California, Riverside, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.

Embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells (IPSCs) derived from mammalian
species are valuable tools for modeling human disease, including retinal
degenerative eye diseases that result in visual loss. Restoration of vision has
focused on transplantation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and retinal
pigmented epithelium (RPE) to the retina. Here we used transgenic common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and human pluripotent stem cells carrying the enhanced green
fluorescent protein (eGFP) reporter as a model system for retinal
differentiation. Using suspension and subsequent adherent differentiation
cultures, we observed spontaneous in vitro differentiation that included NPCs and
cells with pigment granules characteristic of differentiated RPE. Retinal cells
derived from human and common marmoset pluripotent stem cells provide potentially
unlimited cell sources for testing safety and immune compatibility following
autologous or allogeneic transplantation using nonhuman primates in early
translational applications.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/417865 
PMCID: PMC3328338
PMID: 22550507 

