

1729. Stem Cells Int. 2012;2012:417865. doi: 10.1155/2012/417865. Epub 2012 Mar 20.

Derivation of neural progenitors and retinal pigment epithelium from common
marmoset and human pluripotent stem cells.

Torrez LB(1), Perez Y, Yang J, Zur Nieden NI, Klassen H, Liew CG.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Center, Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, University of
California, Riverside, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.

Embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells (IPSCs) derived from mammalian
species are valuable tools for modeling human disease, including retinal
degenerative eye diseases that result in visual loss. Restoration of vision has
focused on transplantation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and retinal
pigmented epithelium (RPE) to the retina. Here we used transgenic common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and human pluripotent stem cells carrying the enhanced green
fluorescent protein (eGFP) reporter as a model system for retinal
differentiation. Using suspension and subsequent adherent differentiation
cultures, we observed spontaneous in vitro differentiation that included NPCs and
cells with pigment granules characteristic of differentiated RPE. Retinal cells
derived from human and common marmoset pluripotent stem cells provide potentially
unlimited cell sources for testing safety and immune compatibility following
autologous or allogeneic transplantation using nonhuman primates in early
translational applications.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/417865 
PMCID: PMC3328338
PMID: 22550507 


1730. Am J Primatol. 2012 Sep;74(9):819-27. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22032. Epub 2012 May 1.

The influence of sex and relatedness on stress response in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Galvão-Coelho NL(1), Silva HP, De Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. galvaonic@hotmail.com

Research in stress physiology has demonstrated the benefits of receiving social
support during stressful conditions. However, recent data have shown that the
efficacy of social support in buffering physiological and behavioral responses to
stressor agents depends on species, sex, and relatedness among animals. This
study investigated whether different kinds of social support (presence of same
sex related or nonrelated conspecifics) have the same effect on hormonal (fecal
cortisol levels) and behavioral responses (agonistic: scent-marking and
individual piloerection; anxiety: locomotion; tension-reducing: autogrooming,
allogrooming, and body contact). We used adult male and female isosexual dyads of
Callithrix jacchus, a small Neotropical primate from the Callitrichidae family,
widely used in the study of stress and related diseases. Following a 28-day
baseline phase, dyads faced three challenging situations (phase 1: dyads were
moved together from the baseline cage to a similar new cage; phase 2: each dyad
member was moved alone to a new cage; and phase 3: dyad members were reunited in 
the same baseline cage). Type of social support was found to influence the
response to stressors differently for each sex. Related male dyads did not change
their hormonal or behavioral profile over the three experimental phases, when
compared to the baseline phase. For nonrelated male dyads, social support
buffered hormonal but not behavioral response. For females, the social support
offered by a related and nonrelated animal, does not seem to buffer the stress
response, as shown by correlations between agonistic behaviors versus cortisol
and locomotion during all three experimental phases and a significant increase in
fecal cortisol levels during phases 2 and 3, when compared with baseline levels. 
The results only partially support the buffering model theory and corroborate
other studies reporting that the benefits of social support during a period of
crisis arise only when it is adaptive for that species.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22032 
PMID: 22549557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

