

1731. Neuroimage. 2012 Aug 1;62(1):408-17. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.04.030. Epub 
2012 Apr 24.

Coupling and robustness of intra-cortical vascular territories.

Guibert R(1), Fonta C, Risser L, Plouraboué F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Mécanique des Fluides, UMR 5502, INPT-CNRS-UPS, 1 Allée du
Professeur Camille Soula, 31400 Toulouse, France. romainguibert@gmail.com

Vascular domains have been described as being coupled to neuronal functional
units enabling dynamic blood supply to the cerebral cyto-architecture. Recent
experiments have shown that penetrating arterioles of the grey matter are the
building blocks for such units. Nevertheless, vascular territories are still
poorly known, as the collection and analysis of large three-dimensional
micro-vascular networks are difficult. By using an exhaustive reconstruction of
the micro-vascular network in an 18 mm(3) volume of marmoset cerebral cortex, we 
numerically computed the blood flow in each blood vessel. We thus defined
arterial and venular territories and examined their overlap. A large part of the 
intracortical vascular network was found to be supplied by several arteries and
drained by several venules. We quantified this multiple potential to compensate
for deficiencies by introducing a new robustness parameter. Robustness proved to 
be positively correlated with cortical depth and a systematic investigation of
coupling maps indicated local patterns of overlap between neighbouring arteries
and neighbouring venules. However, arterio-venular coupling did not have a
spatial pattern of overlap but showed locally preferential functional coupling,
especially of one artery with two venules, supporting the notion of vascular
units. We concluded that intra-cortical perfusion in the primate was
characterised by both very narrow functional beds and a large capacity for
compensatory redistribution, far beyond the nearest neighbour collaterals.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.04.030 
PMID: 22548806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1732. J Chem Neuroanat. 2012 May;44(1):34-44. doi: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2012.04.001. Epub
2012 Apr 15.

Retinal projections and neurochemical characterization of the pregeniculate
nucleus of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Lima RR(1), Pinato L, Nascimento RB, Engelberth RC, Nascimento ES, Cavalcante JC,
Britto LR, Costa MS, Cavalcante JS.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
RN, Brazil.

In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the intergeniculate leaflet
(IGL) are the main components of the circadian timing system. The SCN is the site
of the endogenous biological clock that generates rhythms and synchronizes them
to environmental cues. The IGL is a key structure that modulates SCN activity and
is responsible for the transmission of non-photic information to the SCN, thus
participating in the integration between photic and non-photic stimuli. Both the 
SCN and IGL receive projections of retinal ganglion cells and the IGL is
connected to the SCN through the geniculohypothalamic tract. Little is known
about these structures in the primate brain and the pregeniculate nucleus (PGN)
has been suggested to be the primate equivalent of the rodent IGL. The aim of
this study was to characterize the PGN of a primate, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), and to analyze its retinal afferents. Here, the marmoset
PGN was found to be organized into three subsectors based on neuronal size,
pattern of retinal projections, and the distribution of neuropeptide Y-, GAD-,
serotonin-, enkephalin- and substance P-labeled terminals. This pattern indicates
that the marmoset PGN is equivalent to the IGL. This detailed description
contributes to the understanding of the circadian timing system in this primate
species considering the importance of the IGL within the context of circadian
regulation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2012.04.001 
PMID: 22531294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

