

1732. J Chem Neuroanat. 2012 May;44(1):34-44. doi: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2012.04.001. Epub
2012 Apr 15.

Retinal projections and neurochemical characterization of the pregeniculate
nucleus of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Lima RR(1), Pinato L, Nascimento RB, Engelberth RC, Nascimento ES, Cavalcante JC,
Britto LR, Costa MS, Cavalcante JS.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
RN, Brazil.

In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the intergeniculate leaflet
(IGL) are the main components of the circadian timing system. The SCN is the site
of the endogenous biological clock that generates rhythms and synchronizes them
to environmental cues. The IGL is a key structure that modulates SCN activity and
is responsible for the transmission of non-photic information to the SCN, thus
participating in the integration between photic and non-photic stimuli. Both the 
SCN and IGL receive projections of retinal ganglion cells and the IGL is
connected to the SCN through the geniculohypothalamic tract. Little is known
about these structures in the primate brain and the pregeniculate nucleus (PGN)
has been suggested to be the primate equivalent of the rodent IGL. The aim of
this study was to characterize the PGN of a primate, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), and to analyze its retinal afferents. Here, the marmoset
PGN was found to be organized into three subsectors based on neuronal size,
pattern of retinal projections, and the distribution of neuropeptide Y-, GAD-,
serotonin-, enkephalin- and substance P-labeled terminals. This pattern indicates
that the marmoset PGN is equivalent to the IGL. This detailed description
contributes to the understanding of the circadian timing system in this primate
species considering the importance of the IGL within the context of circadian
regulation.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2012.04.001 
PMID: 22531294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1733. Cereb Cortex. 2013 May;23(5):1126-47. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs088. Epub 2012 Apr
20.

High-resolution mapping of anatomical connections in marmoset extrastriate cortex
reveals a complete representation of the visual field bordering dorsal V2.

Jeffs J(1), Federer F, Ichida JM, Angelucci A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Moran Eye Center, University of Utah, Salt Lake
City, UT 84132, USA.

The primate visual cortex consists of many areas. The posterior areas (V1, V2,
V3, and middle temporal) are thought to be common to all primate species.
However, the organization of cortex immediately anterior to area V2 (the "third
tier" cortex) remains controversial, particularly in New World primates. The main
point of contention has been whether the third tier cortex consists of a single
area V3, representing lower and upper visual quadrants in dorsal and ventral
cortex, respectively, or of 2 distinct areas (the dorsomedial [DM] area and a
V3-like area). Resolving this controversy is crucial to understand the function
and evolution of the third tier cortex. We have addressed this issue in
marmosets, by performing high-precision mapping of corticocortical connections in
cortex bordering dorsal V2. Multiple closely spaced neuroanatomical tracer
injections were placed across the full width of dorsal V2 or adjacent anterior
cortex, and the location of resulting labeled cells mapped throughout whole
flattened visual cortex. The resulting topographic patterns of labeled
connections allowed us to define areas and their boundaries. We found that a
complete representation of the visual field borders dorsal V2 and that the third 
tier cortex consists of 2 distinct areas. These results unequivocally support the
DM model.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs088 
PMCID: PMC3615347
PMID: 22523183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

