

1733. Cereb Cortex. 2013 May;23(5):1126-47. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs088. Epub 2012 Apr
20.

High-resolution mapping of anatomical connections in marmoset extrastriate cortex
reveals a complete representation of the visual field bordering dorsal V2.

Jeffs J(1), Federer F, Ichida JM, Angelucci A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Moran Eye Center, University of Utah, Salt Lake
City, UT 84132, USA.

The primate visual cortex consists of many areas. The posterior areas (V1, V2,
V3, and middle temporal) are thought to be common to all primate species.
However, the organization of cortex immediately anterior to area V2 (the "third
tier" cortex) remains controversial, particularly in New World primates. The main
point of contention has been whether the third tier cortex consists of a single
area V3, representing lower and upper visual quadrants in dorsal and ventral
cortex, respectively, or of 2 distinct areas (the dorsomedial [DM] area and a
V3-like area). Resolving this controversy is crucial to understand the function
and evolution of the third tier cortex. We have addressed this issue in
marmosets, by performing high-precision mapping of corticocortical connections in
cortex bordering dorsal V2. Multiple closely spaced neuroanatomical tracer
injections were placed across the full width of dorsal V2 or adjacent anterior
cortex, and the location of resulting labeled cells mapped throughout whole
flattened visual cortex. The resulting topographic patterns of labeled
connections allowed us to define areas and their boundaries. We found that a
complete representation of the visual field borders dorsal V2 and that the third 
tier cortex consists of 2 distinct areas. These results unequivocally support the
DM model.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs088 
PMCID: PMC3615347
PMID: 22523183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1734. Lab Anim. 2012 Apr;46(2):152-63. doi: 10.1258/la.2012.011167. Epub 2012 Apr 19.

Anatomical description and morphometry of the skeleton of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Casteleyn C(1), Bakker J, Breugelmans S, Kondova I, Saunders J, Langermans JA,
Cornillie P, Van den Broeck W, Van Loo D, Van Hoorebeke L, Bosseler L, Chiers K, 
Decostere A.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Veterinary Morphology, Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of
Pharmaceutical, Biochemical and Veterinary Sciences, University of Antwerp,
Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium. christophe.casteleyn@ua.ac.be

Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is regularly used in biomedical research,
including for studies involving the skeleton. To support these studies, skeletons
of healthy animals that had been euthanized for reasons not interfering with
skeletal anatomy were prepared. The marmoset dental formula 2I-1C-3P-2M of each
oral quadrant is atypical for New World monkeys which commonly possess a third
molar. Seven cervical, 12-13 thoracic, 7-6 lumbar, 2-3 sacral and 26-29 caudal
vertebrae are present, the thoracolumbar region always comprising 19 vertebrae. A
sigmoid clavicle connects the scapula with the manubrium of the sternum.
Depending on the number of thoracic vertebrae, 4-5 sternebrae are located between
the manubrium and xiphoid process. Wide interosseous spaces separate the radius
from the ulna, and the tibia from the fibula. A small sesamoid bone is inserted
in the m. abductor digiti primi longus at the medial border of the carpus, a pair
of ovoid sesamoid bones is located at the palmar/plantar sides of the trochleae
of each metapodial bone, and round fabellae articulate with the proximal surfaces
of the femoral condyles. Male marmosets possess a small penile bone. Both the
front and hind feet have five digits. The hallux possesses a flat nail, whereas
all other digits present curved claws. Interestingly, a central bone is present
in both the carpus and tarsus. This study provides a description and detailed
illustrations of the skeleton of the common marmoset as an anatomical guide for
further biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1258/la.2012.011167 
PMID: 22517992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

