

1734. Lab Anim. 2012 Apr;46(2):152-63. doi: 10.1258/la.2012.011167. Epub 2012 Apr 19.

Anatomical description and morphometry of the skeleton of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Casteleyn C(1), Bakker J, Breugelmans S, Kondova I, Saunders J, Langermans JA,
Cornillie P, Van den Broeck W, Van Loo D, Van Hoorebeke L, Bosseler L, Chiers K, 
Decostere A.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Veterinary Morphology, Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of
Pharmaceutical, Biochemical and Veterinary Sciences, University of Antwerp,
Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium. christophe.casteleyn@ua.ac.be

Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is regularly used in biomedical research,
including for studies involving the skeleton. To support these studies, skeletons
of healthy animals that had been euthanized for reasons not interfering with
skeletal anatomy were prepared. The marmoset dental formula 2I-1C-3P-2M of each
oral quadrant is atypical for New World monkeys which commonly possess a third
molar. Seven cervical, 12-13 thoracic, 7-6 lumbar, 2-3 sacral and 26-29 caudal
vertebrae are present, the thoracolumbar region always comprising 19 vertebrae. A
sigmoid clavicle connects the scapula with the manubrium of the sternum.
Depending on the number of thoracic vertebrae, 4-5 sternebrae are located between
the manubrium and xiphoid process. Wide interosseous spaces separate the radius
from the ulna, and the tibia from the fibula. A small sesamoid bone is inserted
in the m. abductor digiti primi longus at the medial border of the carpus, a pair
of ovoid sesamoid bones is located at the palmar/plantar sides of the trochleae
of each metapodial bone, and round fabellae articulate with the proximal surfaces
of the femoral condyles. Male marmosets possess a small penile bone. Both the
front and hind feet have five digits. The hallux possesses a flat nail, whereas
all other digits present curved claws. Interestingly, a central bone is present
in both the carpus and tarsus. This study provides a description and detailed
illustrations of the skeleton of the common marmoset as an anatomical guide for
further biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1258/la.2012.011167 
PMID: 22517992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1735. J Aging Res. 2012;2012:567143. doi: 10.1155/2012/567143. Epub 2012 Mar 4.

Aging Phenotypes of Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ross CN(1), Davis K, Dobek G, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, Barshop Institute for Longevity
and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio,
15355 Lambda Dr. STCBM Bldg, San Antonio, TX 78245, USA.

Characterizing the phenotypic changes associated with aging in a short-lived
primate is necessary in order to develop better translational models for human
health, aging, and disease research. A population of conventionally housed
marmoset monkeys was assessed to determine if phenotypes of body composition,
hematology, and morphometrical measures were associated with age or risk of
death. We found that the cause of mortality in older marmosets was more likely to
be due to cardiac and chronic kidney disease than in younger marmosets. Older
marmosets have decreased fat mass, morphometric measures, and serum albumin.
Older marmosets are more likely to show a modified posture while at rest and this
modified posture was significantly associated with an increased risk of imminent 
death. These assessments provide an initial definition of aged health in
marmosets and a base for future translational aging research with this species.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/567143 
PMCID: PMC3312272
PMID: 22506113 

