

1735. J Aging Res. 2012;2012:567143. doi: 10.1155/2012/567143. Epub 2012 Mar 4.

Aging Phenotypes of Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ross CN(1), Davis K, Dobek G, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, Barshop Institute for Longevity
and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio,
15355 Lambda Dr. STCBM Bldg, San Antonio, TX 78245, USA.

Characterizing the phenotypic changes associated with aging in a short-lived
primate is necessary in order to develop better translational models for human
health, aging, and disease research. A population of conventionally housed
marmoset monkeys was assessed to determine if phenotypes of body composition,
hematology, and morphometrical measures were associated with age or risk of
death. We found that the cause of mortality in older marmosets was more likely to
be due to cardiac and chronic kidney disease than in younger marmosets. Older
marmosets have decreased fat mass, morphometric measures, and serum albumin.
Older marmosets are more likely to show a modified posture while at rest and this
modified posture was significantly associated with an increased risk of imminent 
death. These assessments provide an initial definition of aged health in
marmosets and a base for future translational aging research with this species.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/567143 
PMCID: PMC3312272
PMID: 22506113 


1736. Genome Biol Evol. 2012;4(5):641-57. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evs035. Epub 2012 Apr 13.

Identification and characterization of lineage-specific highly conserved
noncoding sequences in Mammalian genomes.

Takahashi M(1), Saitou N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, School of Life Science, Graduate University for
Advanced Studies, Japan.

Vertebrate genome comparisons revealed that there are highly conserved noncoding 
sequences (HCNSs) among a wide range of species and many of which contain
regulatory elements. However, recently emerged sequences conserved in specific
lineages have not been well studied. Toward this end, we identified 8,198 primate
and 21,128 specific HCNSs as representative ones among mammals from
human-marmoset and mouse-rat comparisons, respectively. Derived allele frequency 
analysis of primate-specific HCNSs showed that these HCNSs were under purifying
selection, indicating that they may harbor important functions. We selected the
top 1,000 largest HCNSs and compared the lineage-specific HCNS-flanking genes
(LHF genes) with ultraconserved element (UCE)-flanking genes. Interestingly, the 
majority of LHF genes were different from UCE-flanking genes. This
lineage-specific set of LHF genes was more enriched in protein-binding function. 
Conversely, the number of LHF genes that were also shared by UCEs was small but
significantly larger than random expectation, and many of these genes were
involved in anatomical development as transcriptional regulators, suggesting that
certain groups of genes preferentially recruit new HCNSs in addition to old HCNSs
that are conserved among vertebrates. This group of LHF genes might be involved
in the various levels of lineage-specific evolution among vertebrates, mammals,
primates, and rodents. If so, the emergence of HCNSs in and around these two
groups of LHF genes developed lineage-specific characteristics. Our results
provide new insight into lineage-specific evolution through interactions between 
HCNSs and their LHF genes.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evs035 
PMCID: PMC3381673
PMID: 22505575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

