

1737. Biol Psychiatry. 2012 Aug 15;72(4):266-72. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.03.007.
Epub 2012 Apr 12.

Lesions of ventrolateral prefrontal or anterior orbitofrontal cortex in primates 
heighten negative emotion.

Agustín-Pavón C(1), Braesicke K, Shiba Y, Santangelo AM, Mikheenko Y, Cockroft G,
Asma F, Clarke H, Man MS, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Heightened fear and anxiety are core symptoms of a variety of
neuropsychiatric disorders. They are associated with structural and activity
changes throughout neural circuitry that includes the ventral and medial
prefrontal cortices (PFC), the amygdala, and hippocampus. Although the
contributions of the medial PFC, amygdala, and hippocampus to fear and anxiety
have been studied extensively with animal models, the selective roles of the
ventral PFC-including the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) and
orbitofrontal cortex-are poorly understood.
METHODS: We investigated the effects of selective excitotoxic lesions of either
the vlPFC or anterior orbitofrontal cortex (antOFC) on anxious behavior and
Pavlovian conditioned autonomic and behavioral fear responses in the New World
primate, the common marmoset.
RESULTS: Both vlPFC and antOFC lesions resulted in stronger, less adaptable
conditioned fear responses. They also heightened the anxiety responses of a
marmoset to a human intruder. In contrast, only a lesion of the vlPFC affected
the coping style that a marmoset displayed in the presence of the human intruder,
increasing the likelihood of proactive mobbing.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that both the antOFC and vlPFC can
downregulate fear and anxiety and, together, provide necessary but independent
contributions to the top-down control of negative emotion.

Copyright © 2012 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2012.03.007 
PMID: 22502990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1738. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo. 2012 Mar-Apr;54(2):95-101.

Susceptibility of peritoneal macrophage from different species of neotropical
primates to ex vivo Leishmania (L.) infantum chagasi-infection.

Carneiro LA(1), Laurenti MD, Campos MB, Gomes CM, Corbett CE, Silveira FT.

Author information: 
(1)Evandro Chagas Institute, Surveillance Secretary of Health, Ministry of
Health, Belém, Pará State, Brazil. lilianecarneiro@iec.pa.gov.br

This study examined the susceptibility of peritoneal macrophage (PM) from the
Neotropical primates: Callithrix jacchus, Callithrix penicillata, Saimiri
sciureus, Aotus azarae infulatus and Callimico goeldii to ex vivo Leishmania (L.)
infantum chagasi-infection, the etiological agent of American visceral
leishmaniasis (AVL), as a screening assay for evaluating the potential of these
non-human primates as experimental models for studying AVL. The PM-susceptibility
to infection was accessed by the PM-infection index (PMI) at 24, 72 h and by the 
mean of these rates (FPMI), as well as by the TNF-α, IL-12 (Capture ELISA) and
Nitric oxide (NO) responses (Griess method). At 24h, the PMI of A. azarae
infulatus (128) was higher than those of C. penicillata (83), C. goeldii (78), S.
sciureus (77) and C. jacchus (55). At 72h, there was a significant PMI decrease
in four monkeys: A. azarae infulatus (128/37), C. penicillata (83/38), S.
sciureus (77/38) and C. jacchus (55/12), with exception of C. goeldii (78/54).
The FPMI of A. azarae infulatus (82.5) and C. goeldii (66) were higher than C.
jacchus (33.5), but not higher than those of C. penicillata (60.5) and S.
sciureus (57.5). The TNF-a response was more regular in those four primates which
decreased their PMI at 24/72 h: C. jacchus (145/122 pg/mL), C. penicillata
(154/130 pg/mL), S. sciureus (164/104 pg/mL) and A. azarae infulatus (154/104
pg/mL), with exception of C. goeldii (38/83 pg/mL). The IL-12 response was mainly
prominent in A. infulatus and C. goeldii which presented the highest FPMI and,
the NO response was higher in C. goeldii, mainly at 72 h. These findings strongly
suggest that these New World primates have developed a resistant innate immune
response mechanism capable of controlling the macrophage intracellular growth of 
L. (L.) i. chagasi-infection, which do not encourage their use as animal model
for studying AVL.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-46652012000200007 
PMID: 22499423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

