

1738. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo. 2012 Mar-Apr;54(2):95-101.

Susceptibility of peritoneal macrophage from different species of neotropical
primates to ex vivo Leishmania (L.) infantum chagasi-infection.

Carneiro LA(1), Laurenti MD, Campos MB, Gomes CM, Corbett CE, Silveira FT.

Author information: 
(1)Evandro Chagas Institute, Surveillance Secretary of Health, Ministry of
Health, Belém, Pará State, Brazil. lilianecarneiro@iec.pa.gov.br

This study examined the susceptibility of peritoneal macrophage (PM) from the
Neotropical primates: Callithrix jacchus, Callithrix penicillata, Saimiri
sciureus, Aotus azarae infulatus and Callimico goeldii to ex vivo Leishmania (L.)
infantum chagasi-infection, the etiological agent of American visceral
leishmaniasis (AVL), as a screening assay for evaluating the potential of these
non-human primates as experimental models for studying AVL. The PM-susceptibility
to infection was accessed by the PM-infection index (PMI) at 24, 72 h and by the 
mean of these rates (FPMI), as well as by the TNF-α, IL-12 (Capture ELISA) and
Nitric oxide (NO) responses (Griess method). At 24h, the PMI of A. azarae
infulatus (128) was higher than those of C. penicillata (83), C. goeldii (78), S.
sciureus (77) and C. jacchus (55). At 72h, there was a significant PMI decrease
in four monkeys: A. azarae infulatus (128/37), C. penicillata (83/38), S.
sciureus (77/38) and C. jacchus (55/12), with exception of C. goeldii (78/54).
The FPMI of A. azarae infulatus (82.5) and C. goeldii (66) were higher than C.
jacchus (33.5), but not higher than those of C. penicillata (60.5) and S.
sciureus (57.5). The TNF-a response was more regular in those four primates which
decreased their PMI at 24/72 h: C. jacchus (145/122 pg/mL), C. penicillata
(154/130 pg/mL), S. sciureus (164/104 pg/mL) and A. azarae infulatus (154/104
pg/mL), with exception of C. goeldii (38/83 pg/mL). The IL-12 response was mainly
prominent in A. infulatus and C. goeldii which presented the highest FPMI and,
the NO response was higher in C. goeldii, mainly at 72 h. These findings strongly
suggest that these New World primates have developed a resistant innate immune
response mechanism capable of controlling the macrophage intracellular growth of 
L. (L.) i. chagasi-infection, which do not encourage their use as animal model
for studying AVL.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-46652012000200007 
PMID: 22499423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1739. J Neurosci. 2012 Apr 11;32(15):5039-53. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4788-11.2012.

Comparative anatomy of marmoset and mouse cortex from genomic expression.

Mashiko H(1), Yoshida AC, Kikuchi SS, Niimi K, Takahashi E, Aruga J, Okano H,
Shimogori T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Mechanisms of Thalamus Development, RIKEN Brain
Science Institute, Wako, Saitama, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Neurosci. 2012 Dec 5;32(49):17932.

Advances in mouse neural circuit genetics, brain atlases, and behavioral assays
provide a powerful system for modeling the genetic basis of cognition and
psychiatric disease. However, a critical limitation of this approach is how to
achieve concordance of mouse neurobiology with the ultimate goal of understanding
the human brain. Previously, the common marmoset has shown promise as a genetic
model system toward the linking of mouse and human studies. However, the advent
of marmoset transgenic approaches will require an understanding of developmental 
principles in marmoset compared to mouse. In this study, we used gene expression 
analysis in marmoset brain to pose a series of fundamental questions on cortical 
development and evolution for direct comparison to existing mouse brain atlas
expression data. Most genes showed reliable conservation of expression between
marmoset and mouse. However, certain markers had strikingly divergent expression 
patterns. The lateral geniculate nucleus and pulvinar in the thalamus showed
diversification of genetic organization between marmoset and mouse, suggesting
they share some similarity. In contrast, gene expression patterns in early visual
cortical areas showed marmoset-specific expression. In prefrontal cortex, some
markers labeled architectonic areas and layers distinct between mouse and
marmoset. Core hippocampus was conserved, while afferent areas showed divergence.
Together, these results indicate that existing cortical areas are genetically
conserved between marmoset and mouse, while differences in areal parcellation,
afferent diversification, and layer complexity are associated with specific
genes. Collectively, we propose that gene expression patterns in marmoset brain
reveal important clues to the principles underlying the molecular evolution of
cortical and cognitive expansion.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4788-11.2012 
PMCID: PMC6622108
PMID: 22496550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

