

1740. Cereb Cortex. 2013 Apr;23(4):922-31. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs085. Epub 2012 Apr 3.

Early decline in progenitor diversity in the marmoset lateral ventricle.

Azim K(1), Zweifel S, Klaus F, Yoshikawa K, Amrein I, Raineteau O.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zürich/Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology Zurich (ETHZ), 8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

The lateral ventricle (LV) of the adult rodent brain harbors neural stem cells
(NSCs) that continue to generate new neurons throughout life. NSCs located in
defined areas of the LV walls generate progenitors with distinct transcriptional 
profiles that are committed to specific neuronal fates. Here, we assessed if such
diversity of NSCs also exist in the adult common marmoset, a widely used primate 
species in basic and clinical neuroscience research. We first investigated the 3D
distributions of proliferative progenitors and committed neuroblasts in the
marmoset forebrain. In addition to these maps, we assessed the spatial presence
of divergent progenitor populations based on their expression of defined
transcription factors, that is, Dlx2, Pax6, Tbr2, and Ngn2 which are
differentially expressed by γ-aminobutyric acidergic versus glutamatergic
progenitors in the adult rodent forebrain. In striking contrast to rodents,
glutamatergic progenitors were only sparse in neonates and absent from the adult 
LV, whilst present in the hippocampus. Our analyses highlight major differences
in the diversity of NSCs of the marmoset LV compared with rodents and emphasize
the need to address NSCs diversity in evolutionary higher order mammals
concomitantly to rodents.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs085 
PMID: 22473896  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1741. PLoS One. 2012;7(3):e34383. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0034383. Epub 2012 Mar 28.

The early postnatal nonhuman primate neocortex contains self-renewing multipotent
neural progenitor cells.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Merson TD, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

The postnatal neocortex has traditionally been considered a non-neurogenic
region, under non-pathological conditions. A few studies suggest, however, that a
small subpopulation of neural cells born during postnatal life can differentiate 
into neurons that take up residence within the neocortex, implying that postnatal
neurogenesis could occur in this region, albeit at a low level. Evidence to
support this hypothesis remains controversial while the source of putative neural
progenitors responsible for generating new neurons in the postnatal neocortex is 
unknown. Here we report the identification of self-renewing multipotent neural
progenitor cells (NPCs) derived from the postnatal day 14 (PD14) marmoset monkey 
primary visual cortex (V1, striate cortex). While neuronal maturation within V1
is well advanced by PD14, we observed cells throughout this region that
co-expressed Sox2 and Ki67, defining a population of resident proliferating
progenitor cells. When cultured at low density in the presence of epidermal
growth factor (EGF) and/or fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2), dissociated V1
tissue gave rise to multipotent neurospheres that exhibited the ability to
differentiate into neurons, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. While the capacity
to generate neurones and oligodendrocytes was not observed beyond the third
passage, astrocyte-restricted neurospheres could be maintained for up to 6
passages. This study provides the first direct evidence for the existence of
multipotent NPCs within the postnatal neocortex of the nonhuman primate. The
potential contribution of neocortical NPCs to neural repair following injury
raises exciting new possibilities for the field of regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0034383 
PMCID: PMC3314641
PMID: 22470566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

