

1742. J Comp Psychol. 2012 Aug;126(3):279-87. doi: 10.1037/a0026613. Epub 2012 Apr 2.

Characteristics of serial order learning in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Koba R(1), Takemoto A, Miwa M, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral and Brain Sciences, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto
University, Inuyama, Aichi, Japan.

We investigated the characteristics of serial order learning in common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus). Five marmosets were trained in a sequential responding task
in which they were required to touch four graphic patterns in a given order
(A→B→C→D) to obtain a reward. All five marmosets learned the task with over 65%
accuracy. Shuffling the positions of B, C, and D immediately after the marmoset
had correctly identified and selected the first stimulus (A) either decreased
accuracy or lengthened response latency for the second stimulus (B). These
results suggest that the marmosets planned the response to the second stimulus
before they touched the first stimulus. In addition, when we presented a pair of 
stimuli (AB, AC, AD, BC, BD, and CD pairs), the marmosets responded to the
stimuli in the pair in the appropriate order, according to the learned order
(A→B→C→D). The analyses of first and second response latencies clearly
demonstrated both the first-item and missing-item effects in task performance.
Our data provide direct evidence that marmosets can learn the relative order of
the four stimuli in a sequential responding task.

2012 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0026613 
PMID: 22468938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1743. J Immunol. 2012 May 1;188(9):4654-62. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1101575. Epub 2012
Mar 30.

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor-mediated induction of EBV reactivation as a risk factor
for Sjögren's syndrome.

Inoue H(1), Mishima K, Yamamoto-Yoshida S, Ushikoshi-Nakayama R, Nakagawa Y,
Yamamoto K, Ryo K, Ide F, Saito I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Tsurumi University School of Dental Medicine,
Kanagawa 230-8501, Japan.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor
that mediates a variety of biological effects by binding to environmental
pollutants, including 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD or dioxin).
Although numerous animal studies have demonstrated the harmful effects of
dioxins, it remains controversial whether dioxins pose a risk to human health.
Enhanced lytic replication of EBV is a risk factor for the development of
autoimmune diseases and cancers. This study evaluated the possibility that
ligand-activated AhR reactivates EBV. EBV reactivation and AhR transactivation
were evaluated with luciferase assays. Saliva samples were collected from 19
patients with primary Sjögren's syndrome (SS). Control saliva samples were
obtained from 10 healthy individuals and nine patients with severe dry mouth.
TCDD enhanced BZLF1 transcription, which mediates the switch from the latent to
the lytic form of EBV infection in EBV-positive B cell lines and in a salivary
gland epithelial cell line. Moreover, TCDD-induced increases in BZLF1 mRNA and
EBV genomic DNA levels were confirmed in the B cell lines. Saliva from SS
patients activated the transcription of both CYP1A1 and BZLF1. Additionally,
there was a positive correlation between CYP1A1 and BZLF1 promoter activities.
AhR ligands elicited the reactivation of EBV in activated B cells and salivary
epithelial cells, and these ligands are involved in SS. Our findings reveal novel
aspects of the biological effects of dioxin and the AhR-dependent pathogenesis of
autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1101575 
PMID: 22467650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

