

1745. Bioorg Med Chem. 2012 May 1;20(9):3072-93. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2012.02.054. Epub
2012 Mar 8.

Discovery of novel tricyclic compounds as squalene synthase inhibitors.

Ichikawa M(1), Ohtsuka M, Ohki H, Haginoya N, Itoh M, Sugita K, Usui H, Suzuki M,
Terayama K, Kanda A.

Author information: 
(1)Lead Discovery and Optimization Research Laboratories I, R&D Division, Daiichi
Sankyo Co. Ltd, 1-2-58 Hiromachi, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-8710, Japan.
ichikawa.masanori.uf@daiichisankyo.co.jp

In the present article, we have reported the design, synthesis, and
identification of highly potent benzhydrol derivatives as squalene synthase
inhibitors (compound 1). Unfortunately, the in vivo efficacies of the compounds
were not enough for acquiring the clinical candidate. We continued our
investigation to obtain a more in vivo efficacious template than the benzhydrol
template. In our effort, we focused on a benzoxazepine ring and designed a new
tricyclic scaffold by the incorporation of heterocycle into it. Prepared
pyrrolobenzoxazepine derivatives showed further efficient in vitro and in vivo
activities.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2012.02.054 
PMID: 22464687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1746. Science. 2012 Mar 30;335(6076):1628-34. doi: 10.1126/science.1215280.

The geometric structure of the brain fiber pathways.

Wedeen VJ(1), Rosene DL, Wang R, Dai G, Mortazavi F, Hagmann P, Kaas JH, Tseng
WY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), Harvard Medical
School and the MGH/Massachussetts Institute of Technology, Charlestown, MA 02129,
USA. van@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    Science. 2012 May 11;336(6082):670.

Comment in
    Science. 2012 Mar 30;335(6076):1582-4.
    Science. 2012 Sep 28;337(6102):1605.

The structure of the brain as a product of morphogenesis is difficult to
reconcile with the observed complexity of cerebral connectivity. We therefore
analyzed relationships of adjacency and crossing between cerebral fiber pathways 
in four nonhuman primate species and in humans by using diffusion magnetic
resonance imaging. The cerebral fiber pathways formed a rectilinear
three-dimensional grid continuous with the three principal axes of development.
Cortico-cortical pathways formed parallel sheets of interwoven paths in the
longitudinal and medio-lateral axes, in which major pathways were local
condensations. Cross-species homology was strong and showed emergence of complex 
gyral connectivity by continuous elaboration of this grid structure. This
architecture naturally supports functional spatio-temporal coherence,
developmental path-finding, and incremental rewiring with correlated adaptation
of structure and function in cerebral plasticity and evolution.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1215280 
PMCID: PMC3773464
PMID: 22461612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

