

1746. Science. 2012 Mar 30;335(6076):1628-34. doi: 10.1126/science.1215280.

The geometric structure of the brain fiber pathways.

Wedeen VJ(1), Rosene DL, Wang R, Dai G, Mortazavi F, Hagmann P, Kaas JH, Tseng
WY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), Harvard Medical
School and the MGH/Massachussetts Institute of Technology, Charlestown, MA 02129,
USA. van@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    Science. 2012 May 11;336(6082):670.

Comment in
    Science. 2012 Mar 30;335(6076):1582-4.
    Science. 2012 Sep 28;337(6102):1605.

The structure of the brain as a product of morphogenesis is difficult to
reconcile with the observed complexity of cerebral connectivity. We therefore
analyzed relationships of adjacency and crossing between cerebral fiber pathways 
in four nonhuman primate species and in humans by using diffusion magnetic
resonance imaging. The cerebral fiber pathways formed a rectilinear
three-dimensional grid continuous with the three principal axes of development.
Cortico-cortical pathways formed parallel sheets of interwoven paths in the
longitudinal and medio-lateral axes, in which major pathways were local
condensations. Cross-species homology was strong and showed emergence of complex 
gyral connectivity by continuous elaboration of this grid structure. This
architecture naturally supports functional spatio-temporal coherence,
developmental path-finding, and incremental rewiring with correlated adaptation
of structure and function in cerebral plasticity and evolution.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1215280 
PMCID: PMC3773464
PMID: 22461612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1747. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2012 May;295(5):800-21. doi: 10.1002/ar.22451. Epub 2012 Mar 
28.

Cortical connections of auditory cortex in marmoset monkeys: lateral belt and
parabelt regions.

de la Mothe LA(1), Blumell S, Kajikawa Y, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Tennessee State University, Nashville, Tennessee
37209, USA.

The current working model of primate auditory cortex is constructed from a number
of studies of both new and old world monkeys. It includes three levels of
processing. A primary level, the core region, is surrounded both medially and
laterally by a secondary belt region. A third level of processing, the parabelt
region, is located lateral to the belt. The marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus
jacchus) has become an important model system to study auditory processing, but
its anatomical organization has not been fully established. In previous studies, 
we focused on the architecture and connections of the core and medial belt areas 
(de la Mothe et al., 2006a, J Comp Neurol 496:27-71; de la Mothe et al., 2006b, J
Comp Neurol 496:72-96). In this study, the corticocortical connections of the
lateral belt and parabelt were examined in the marmoset. Tracers were injected
into both rostral and caudal portions of the lateral belt and parabelt. Both
regions revealed topographic connections along the rostrocaudal axis, where
caudal areas of injection had stronger connections with caudal areas, and rostral
areas of injection with rostral areas. The lateral belt had strong connections
with the core, belt, and parabelt, whereas the parabelt had strong connections
with the belt but not the core. Label in the core from injections in the parabelt
was significantly reduced or absent, consistent with the idea that the parabelt
relies mainly on the belt for its cortical input. In addition, the present and
previous studies indicate hierarchical principles of anatomical organization in
the marmoset that are consistent with those observed in other primates.

Copyright Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.22451 
PMCID: PMC3379817
PMID: 22461313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

