

1747. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2012 May;295(5):800-21. doi: 10.1002/ar.22451. Epub 2012 Mar 
28.

Cortical connections of auditory cortex in marmoset monkeys: lateral belt and
parabelt regions.

de la Mothe LA(1), Blumell S, Kajikawa Y, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Tennessee State University, Nashville, Tennessee
37209, USA.

The current working model of primate auditory cortex is constructed from a number
of studies of both new and old world monkeys. It includes three levels of
processing. A primary level, the core region, is surrounded both medially and
laterally by a secondary belt region. A third level of processing, the parabelt
region, is located lateral to the belt. The marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus
jacchus) has become an important model system to study auditory processing, but
its anatomical organization has not been fully established. In previous studies, 
we focused on the architecture and connections of the core and medial belt areas 
(de la Mothe et al., 2006a, J Comp Neurol 496:27-71; de la Mothe et al., 2006b, J
Comp Neurol 496:72-96). In this study, the corticocortical connections of the
lateral belt and parabelt were examined in the marmoset. Tracers were injected
into both rostral and caudal portions of the lateral belt and parabelt. Both
regions revealed topographic connections along the rostrocaudal axis, where
caudal areas of injection had stronger connections with caudal areas, and rostral
areas of injection with rostral areas. The lateral belt had strong connections
with the core, belt, and parabelt, whereas the parabelt had strong connections
with the belt but not the core. Label in the core from injections in the parabelt
was significantly reduced or absent, consistent with the idea that the parabelt
relies mainly on the belt for its cortical input. In addition, the present and
previous studies indicate hierarchical principles of anatomical organization in
the marmoset that are consistent with those observed in other primates.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.22451 
PMCID: PMC3379817
PMID: 22461313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1748. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2012 Apr;7(4):315-25. doi: 10.1517/17460441.2012.666523.
Epub 2012 Feb 28.

New drug discovery strategies for rheumatoid arthritis: a niche for nonhuman
primate models to address systemic complications in inflammatory arthritis.

Vierboom M(1), Breedveld E, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Department of Immunobiology, PO BOX 3306, 
2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. vierboom@bprc.nl

INTRODUCTION: Despite the tremendous advances made in the treatment of rheumatoid
arthritis (RA), there is still excess mortality observed in RA patients, which is
mainly caused by cardiovascular disease (CVD). Altered lipid metabolism plays a
major role in the etiology of CVD. A second common complication observed in RA
patients is anemia. Both conditions are serious, reduce quality of life and are
undertreated.
AREAS COVERED: The authors postulate that there is a specific niche for nonhuman 
primate models of inflammatory arthritis to address these systemic complications 
that occur in RA. Furthermore, the authors postulate that these nonhuman primate 
models are a useful platform to unveil the mechanisms underlying dyslipidemia and
anemia, which are responsible for the manifestation of these complications.
EXPERT OPINION: The presence of currently untreated systemic complications of RA,
such as dyslipidemia and anemia, provides interesting opportunities to include
these in the preclinical evaluation of new therapies. In the selection of
relevant models for the evaluation of new treatments for RA or the identification
of new targets for therapy, we postulate that nonhuman primates should be
considered as a valid preclinical model. Because of their closer immunological
and physiological proximity to humans, these models in nonhuman primates can be
valuable for studying disease-related aspects that cannot be addressed in rodent 
models.

© 2012 Informa UK, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2012.666523 
PMID: 22458503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

