

1748. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2012 Apr;7(4):315-25. doi: 10.1517/17460441.2012.666523.
Epub 2012 Feb 28.

New drug discovery strategies for rheumatoid arthritis: a niche for nonhuman
primate models to address systemic complications in inflammatory arthritis.

Vierboom M(1), Breedveld E, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Department of Immunobiology, PO BOX 3306, 
2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. vierboom@bprc.nl

INTRODUCTION: Despite the tremendous advances made in the treatment of rheumatoid
arthritis (RA), there is still excess mortality observed in RA patients, which is
mainly caused by cardiovascular disease (CVD). Altered lipid metabolism plays a
major role in the etiology of CVD. A second common complication observed in RA
patients is anemia. Both conditions are serious, reduce quality of life and are
undertreated.
AREAS COVERED: The authors postulate that there is a specific niche for nonhuman 
primate models of inflammatory arthritis to address these systemic complications 
that occur in RA. Furthermore, the authors postulate that these nonhuman primate 
models are a useful platform to unveil the mechanisms underlying dyslipidemia and
anemia, which are responsible for the manifestation of these complications.
EXPERT OPINION: The presence of currently untreated systemic complications of RA,
such as dyslipidemia and anemia, provides interesting opportunities to include
these in the preclinical evaluation of new therapies. In the selection of
relevant models for the evaluation of new treatments for RA or the identification
of new targets for therapy, we postulate that nonhuman primates should be
considered as a valid preclinical model. Because of their closer immunological
and physiological proximity to humans, these models in nonhuman primates can be
valuable for studying disease-related aspects that cannot be addressed in rodent 
models.

© 2012 Informa UK, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2012.666523 
PMID: 22458503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1749. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2012;136(4):278-87. doi: 10.1159/000337298. Epub 2012 Mar
24.

Methylation and expression analyses of the 7q autism susceptibility locus genes
MEST , COPG2, and TSGA14 in human and anthropoid primate cortices.

Schneider E(1), Mayer S, El Hajj N, Jensen LR, Kuss AW, Zischler H, Kondova I,
Bontrop RE, Navarro B, Fuchs E, Zechner U, Haaf T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Julius Maximilians University, Würzburg, Germany.

The autism susceptibility locus on human chromosome 7q32 contains the maternally 
imprinted MEST and the non-imprinted COPG2 and TSGA14 genes. Autism is a disorder
of the 'social brain' that has been proposed to be due to an overbalance of
paternally expressed genes. To study regulation of the 7q32 locus during
anthropoid primate evolution, we analyzed the methylation and expression patterns
of MEST, COPG2, and TSGA14 in human, chimpanzee, Old World monkey (baboon and
rhesus macaque), and New World monkey (marmoset) cortices. In all human and
anthropoid primate cortices, the MEST promoter was hemimethylated, as expected
for a differentially methylated imprinting control region, whereas the COPG2 and 
TSGA14 promoters were completely demethylated, typical for transcriptionally
active non-imprinted genes. The MEST gene also showed comparable mRNA expression 
levels in all analyzed species. In contrast, COPG2 expression was downregulated
in the human cortex compared to chimpanzee, Old and New World monkeys. TSGA14
either showed no differential regulation in the human brain compared to
chimpanzee and marmoset or a slight upregulation compared to baboon. The
human-specific downregulation supports a role for COPG2 in the development of a
'social brain'. Promoter methylation patterns appear to be more stable during
evolution than gene expression patterns, suggesting that other mechanisms may be 
more important for inter-primate differences in gene expression.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000337298 
PMID: 22456293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

