

1750. J Neuroimmunol. 2012 May 15;246(1-2):27-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2012.02.012. 
Epub 2012 Mar 22.

MicroRNA regulation in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in mice and
marmosets resembles regulation in human multiple sclerosis lesions.

Lescher J(1), Paap F, Schultz V, Redenbach L, Scheidt U, Rosewich H, Nessler S,
Fuchs E, Gärtner J, Brück W, Junker A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Here we demonstrate that miRNA regulation in marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and
C57/BL6 mouse EAE lesions largely resembles miRNA regulation in active human MS
lesions. Detailed quantitative PCR analyses of the most up- and downregulated
miRNAs of active human MS lesions in dissected lesions from marmoset EAE brains
and inflamed spinal cords of EAE mice revealed that the conserved and highly
regulated miRNAs, miRNA-155, miRNA-142-3p, miRNA-146a, miRNA-146b and miRNA-21,
turned out to be similarly upregulated in marmoset and mouse EAE lesions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2012.02.012 
PMID: 22445295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1751. BMC Mol Biol. 2012 Mar 23;13:11. doi: 10.1186/1471-2199-13-11.

The leukemia associated nuclear corepressor ETO homologue genes MTG16 and MTGR1
are regulated differently in hematopoietic cells.

Ajore R(1), Kumar P, Dhanda RS, Gullberg U, Olsson I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, C14, BMC, S-221 84, Lund, Sweden.
Ram.Ajore@med.lu.se

BACKGROUND: MTG16, MTGR1 and ETO are nuclear transcriptional corepressors of the 
human ETO protein family. MTG16 is implicated in hematopoietic development and in
controlling erythropoiesis/megakaryopoiesis. Furthermore, ETO homologue genes are
3'participants in leukemia fusions generated by chromosomal translocations
responsible of hematopoietic dysregulation. We tried to identify structural and
functional promoter elements of MTG16 and MTGR1 genes in order to find
associations between their regulation and hematopoiesis.
RESULTS: 5' deletion examinations and luciferase reporter gene studies indicated 
that a 492 bp sequence upstream of the transcription start site is essential for 
transcriptional activity by the MTG16 promoter. The TATA- and CCAAT-less promoter
with a GC box close to the start site showed strong reporter activity when
examined in erythroid/megakaryocytic cells. Mutation of an evolutionary conserved
GATA -301 consensus binding site repressed promoter function. Furthermore,
results from in vitro antibody-enhanced electrophoretic mobility shift assay and 
in vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated binding of GATA-1 to the GATA
-301 site. A role of GATA-1 was also supported by transfection of small
interfering RNA, which diminished MTG16 expression. Furthermore, expression of
the transcription factor HERP2, which represses GATA-1, produced strong
inhibition of the MTG16 promoter reporter consistent with a role of GATA-1 in
transcriptional activation. The TATA-less and CCAAT-less MTGR1 promoter retained 
most of the transcriptional activity within a -308 to -207 bp region with a
GC-box-rich sequence containing multiple SP1 binding sites reminiscent of a
housekeeping gene with constitutive expression. However, mutations of individual 
SP1 binding sites did not repress promoter function; multiple active SP1 binding 
sites may be required to safeguard constitutive MTGR1 transcriptional activity.
The observed repression of MTG16/MTGR1 promoters by the leukemia associated
AML1-ETO fusion gene may have a role in hematopoietic dysfunction of leukemia.
CONCLUSIONS: An evolutionary conserved GATA binding site is critical in
transcriptional regulation of the MTG16 promoter. In contrast, the MTGR1 gene
depends on a GC-box-rich sequence for transcriptional regulation and possible
ubiquitous expression. Our results demonstrate that the ETO homologue promoters
are regulated differently consistent with hematopoietic cell-type- specific
expression and function.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2199-13-11 
PMCID: PMC3364894
PMID: 22443175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

