

1751. BMC Mol Biol. 2012 Mar 23;13:11. doi: 10.1186/1471-2199-13-11.

The leukemia associated nuclear corepressor ETO homologue genes MTG16 and MTGR1
are regulated differently in hematopoietic cells.

Ajore R(1), Kumar P, Dhanda RS, Gullberg U, Olsson I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, C14, BMC, S-221 84, Lund, Sweden.
Ram.Ajore@med.lu.se

BACKGROUND: MTG16, MTGR1 and ETO are nuclear transcriptional corepressors of the 
human ETO protein family. MTG16 is implicated in hematopoietic development and in
controlling erythropoiesis/megakaryopoiesis. Furthermore, ETO homologue genes are
3'participants in leukemia fusions generated by chromosomal translocations
responsible of hematopoietic dysregulation. We tried to identify structural and
functional promoter elements of MTG16 and MTGR1 genes in order to find
associations between their regulation and hematopoiesis.
RESULTS: 5' deletion examinations and luciferase reporter gene studies indicated 
that a 492 bp sequence upstream of the transcription start site is essential for 
transcriptional activity by the MTG16 promoter. The TATA- and CCAAT-less promoter
with a GC box close to the start site showed strong reporter activity when
examined in erythroid/megakaryocytic cells. Mutation of an evolutionary conserved
GATA -301 consensus binding site repressed promoter function. Furthermore,
results from in vitro antibody-enhanced electrophoretic mobility shift assay and 
in vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated binding of GATA-1 to the GATA
-301 site. A role of GATA-1 was also supported by transfection of small
interfering RNA, which diminished MTG16 expression. Furthermore, expression of
the transcription factor HERP2, which represses GATA-1, produced strong
inhibition of the MTG16 promoter reporter consistent with a role of GATA-1 in
transcriptional activation. The TATA-less and CCAAT-less MTGR1 promoter retained 
most of the transcriptional activity within a -308 to -207 bp region with a
GC-box-rich sequence containing multiple SP1 binding sites reminiscent of a
housekeeping gene with constitutive expression. However, mutations of individual 
SP1 binding sites did not repress promoter function; multiple active SP1 binding 
sites may be required to safeguard constitutive MTGR1 transcriptional activity.
The observed repression of MTG16/MTGR1 promoters by the leukemia associated
AML1-ETO fusion gene may have a role in hematopoietic dysfunction of leukemia.
CONCLUSIONS: An evolutionary conserved GATA binding site is critical in
transcriptional regulation of the MTG16 promoter. In contrast, the MTGR1 gene
depends on a GC-box-rich sequence for transcriptional regulation and possible
ubiquitous expression. Our results demonstrate that the ETO homologue promoters
are regulated differently consistent with hematopoietic cell-type- specific
expression and function.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2199-13-11 
PMCID: PMC3364894
PMID: 22443175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1752. Hum Reprod. 2012 Jun;27(6):1754-67. doi: 10.1093/humrep/des091. Epub 2012 Mar 22.

Misleading and reliable markers to differentiate between primate testis-derived
multipotent stromal cells and spermatogonia in culture.

Eildermann K(1), Gromoll J, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have reported the generation of spermatogonia-derived
pluripotent stem cells from human testes. The initial aim of the present study
was the derivation of equivalent stem cells from an established and
experimentally accessible non-human primate model, the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus). However, an essential prerequisite in the absence of
transgenic reporters in primates and man is the availability of validated
endogenous markers for the identification of specific cell types in vitro.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We cultured marmoset testicular cells in a similar way to
that described for human testis-derived pluripotent cells and set out to
characterize these cultures under different conditions and in differentiation
assays applying established marker panels. Importantly, the cells emerged as
testicular multipotent stromal cells (TMSCs) instead of (pluripotent) germ
cell-derived cells. TMSCs expressed many markers such as GFR-α, GPR125, THY-1
(CD90), ITGA6, SSEA4 and TRA-1-81, which were considered as spermatogonia
specific and were previously used for the enrichment or characterization of
spermatogonia. Proliferation of TMSCs was highly dependent on basic fibroblast
growth factor, a growth factor routinely present in germ cell culture media. As
reliable markers for the distinction between spermatogonia and TMSCs, we
established VASA, in combination with the spermatogonia-expressed factors,
MAGEA4, PLZF and SALL4.
CONCLUSIONS: Marmoset monkey TMSCs and spermatogonia exhibit an overlap of
markers, which may cause erroneous interpretations of experiments with
testis-derived stem cells in vitro. We provide a marker panel for the unequivocal
identification of spermatogonia providing a better basis for future studies on
primate, including human, testis-derived stem cells.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/des091 
PMCID: PMC3357197
PMID: 22442249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

