

1752. Hum Reprod. 2012 Jun;27(6):1754-67. doi: 10.1093/humrep/des091. Epub 2012 Mar 22.

Misleading and reliable markers to differentiate between primate testis-derived
multipotent stromal cells and spermatogonia in culture.

Eildermann K(1), Gromoll J, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have reported the generation of spermatogonia-derived
pluripotent stem cells from human testes. The initial aim of the present study
was the derivation of equivalent stem cells from an established and
experimentally accessible non-human primate model, the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus). However, an essential prerequisite in the absence of
transgenic reporters in primates and man is the availability of validated
endogenous markers for the identification of specific cell types in vitro.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We cultured marmoset testicular cells in a similar way to
that described for human testis-derived pluripotent cells and set out to
characterize these cultures under different conditions and in differentiation
assays applying established marker panels. Importantly, the cells emerged as
testicular multipotent stromal cells (TMSCs) instead of (pluripotent) germ
cell-derived cells. TMSCs expressed many markers such as GFR-α, GPR125, THY-1
(CD90), ITGA6, SSEA4 and TRA-1-81, which were considered as spermatogonia
specific and were previously used for the enrichment or characterization of
spermatogonia. Proliferation of TMSCs was highly dependent on basic fibroblast
growth factor, a growth factor routinely present in germ cell culture media. As
reliable markers for the distinction between spermatogonia and TMSCs, we
established VASA, in combination with the spermatogonia-expressed factors,
MAGEA4, PLZF and SALL4.
CONCLUSIONS: Marmoset monkey TMSCs and spermatogonia exhibit an overlap of
markers, which may cause erroneous interpretations of experiments with
testis-derived stem cells in vitro. We provide a marker panel for the unequivocal
identification of spermatogonia providing a better basis for future studies on
primate, including human, testis-derived stem cells.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/des091 
PMCID: PMC3357197
PMID: 22442249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1753. Behav Res Methods. 2012 Dec;44(4):909-18. doi: 10.3758/s13428-012-0198-9.

The Vienna comparative cognition technology (VCCT): an innovative operant
conditioning system for various species and experimental procedures.

Steurer MM(1), Aust U, Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
michael.steurer@univie.ac.at

This article describes a laboratory system for running learning experiments in
operant chambers with various species. It is based on a modern version of a
classical learning chamber for operant conditioning, the so-called "Skinner box".
Rather than constituting a stand-alone unit, as is usually the case, it is an
integrated part of a comprehensive technical solution, thereby eliminating a
number of practical problems that are frequently encountered in research on
animal learning and behavior. The Vienna comparative cognition technology
combines modern computer, stimulus presentation, and reinforcement technology
with flexibility and user-friendliness, which allows for efficient, widely
automatized across-species experimentation, and thus makes the system appropriate
for use in a broad range of learning tasks.

DOI: 10.3758/s13428-012-0198-9 
PMID: 22437512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

