

1755. Brain Nerve. 2012 Mar;64(3):245-54.

[Hepatocyte growth factor therapy for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Aoki M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Japan.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by the death of upper and lower motor neurons. Approximately 20% of
familial ALS cases are caused by mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1)
gene. We generated rats that express a human SOD1 transgene with two different
ALS-associated mutations and found that these rats develop remarkable motor
neuron degeneration and paralysis. This rat model, because of the larger size of 
the animals as compared to ALS-affected mice, will facilitate studies involving
manipulation of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (e.g., implantation of intrathecal 
catheters for chronic therapeutic studies; CSF sampling) or spinal cord (e.g.,
direct administration of viral- and cell-mediated therapies). The hepatocyte
growth factor (HGF) is one of the most potent survival-promoting factors for
motor neurons. To examine its protective effect on motor neurons and its
therapeutic potential, we administered human recombinant HGF (hrHGF) to the
transgenic rats, by continuous intrathecal delivery, for 4 weeks from the onset
of paralysis. Intrathecal administration of hrHGF attenuated motor neuron
degeneration and prolonged the duration of the disease 62.7% compared with the
contrast group. Our results indicated the therapeutic efficacy of continuous
intrathecal administration of hrHGF in ALS rats. To explore the potential use of 
this treatment strategy in humans, we induced a contusive cervical spinal cord
injury in the common marmoset, a primate, and then administered hrHGF
intrathecally. The intrathecal administration of hrHGF promoted functional
recovery. These projects have been supported by the "Super Special Consortium for
Supporting the Development of Cutting-edge Medical Care" (tokku), a special
program organized by the Cabinet Office of the Japanese government (research
representative: Hideyuki Okano, M.D., Ph.D., Professor at Keio University).


PMID: 22402718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1756. Primates. 2012 Jul;53(3):303-9. doi: 10.1007/s10329-012-0302-x. Epub 2012 Mar 3.

Callithrix penicillata as a nonhuman primate model for strongyloidiasis.

de Melo AL(1), Mati VL, Martins WA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Taxonomia e Biologia de Invertebrados, Departamento de
Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas
Gerais, P.O. Box 486, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 30123-970, Brazil.
aldemelo@icb.ufmg.br

In order to better understand experimental strongyloidiasis in small New World
primates, and to evaluate aspects of reinfection and immunosuppression induced by
glucocorticoids, nine specimens of Callithrix penicillata (Primates: Cebidae)
were administered (by subcutaneous injection, sc) 3000 infective larvae of a
strain of Strongyloides venezuelensis (Rhabditida: Strongyloididae) that had been
maintained in successive passages through AKR/J mice since 1987. The mean
prepatent period was 5.6 ± 0.7 days post-infection (DPI). The mean patent period 
of infection among the untreated animals (marmosets 1-7) was 123.4 ± 61.4 DPI.
Two animals (marmosets 8 and 9) received dexamethasone (2.5 mg/kg, sc) for five
consecutive days starting on the 20th day after infection, but this treatment did
not alter the course of the infection, and the patent period for these animals
was 100.5 ± 58.7 DPI (59 and 142, respectively). Stool examination showed that
the highest quantities of parasite eggs were expelled between the 8th and 19th
days after inoculation of the larvae. Thereafter, there was a gradual reduction
in the number of parasite eggs in feces of all marmosets. During the chronic
phase of the infection, before completely negative parasitological findings were 
obtained, the parasitological examinations were intermittently positive.
Reinfection of three of these animals did not result in new positive
examinations. However, given the receptiveness of these animals to initial
infection with S. venezuelensis and their similarities to human beings, it is
proposed that C. penicillata could be used as a nonhuman primate model for
experimental strongyloidiasis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-012-0302-x 
PMID: 22388422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

