

1757. Toxicology. 2012 May 16;295(1-3):47-55. doi: 10.1016/j.tox.2012.02.007. Epub 2012
Mar 1.

High-performance metabolic profiling of plasma from seven mammalian species for
simultaneous environmental chemical surveillance and bioeffect monitoring.

Park YH(1), Lee K, Soltow QA, Strobel FH, Brigham KL, Parker RE, Wilson ME,
Sutliff RL, Mansfield KG, Wachtman LM, Ziegler TR, Jones DP.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Emory University,
Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

High-performance metabolic profiling (HPMP) by Fourier-transform mass
spectrometry coupled to liquid chromatography gives relative quantification of
thousands of chemicals in biologic samples but has had little development for use
in toxicology research. In principle, the approach could be useful to detect
complex metabolic response patterns to toxicologic exposures and to detect
unusual abundances or patterns of potentially toxic chemicals. As an initial
study to develop these possible uses, we applied HPMP and bioinformatics analysis
to plasma of humans, rhesus macaques, marmosets, pigs, sheep, rats and mice to
determine: (1) whether more chemicals are detected in humans living in a less
controlled environment than captive species and (2) whether a subset of plasma
chemicals with similar inter-species and intra-species variation could be
identified for use in comparative toxicology. Results show that the number of
chemicals detected was similar in humans (3221) and other species (range
2537-3373). Metabolite patterns were most similar within species and separated
samples according to family and order. A total of 1485 chemicals were common to
all species; 37% of these matched chemicals in human metabolomic databases and
included chemicals in 137 out of 146 human metabolic pathways. Probability-based 
modularity clustering separated 644 chemicals, including many endogenous
metabolites, with inter-species variation similar to intra-species variation. The
remaining chemicals had greater inter-species variation and included
environmental chemicals as well as GSH and methionine. Together, the data suggest
that HPMP provides a platform that can be useful within human populations and
controlled animal studies to simultaneously evaluate environmental exposures and 
biological responses to such exposures.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tox.2012.02.007 
PMCID: PMC3332037
PMID: 22387982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1758. J Med Chem. 2012 Apr 12;55(7):3307-18. doi: 10.1021/jm201735j. Epub 2012 Mar 16.

Lead optimization of 17β-HSD1 inhibitors of the (hydroxyphenyl)naphthol
sulfonamide type for the treatment of endometriosis.

Henn C(1), Einspanier A, Marchais-Oberwinkler S, Frotscher M, Hartmann RW.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Saarland University, Campus C2 3,
D-66041 Saarbrücken, Germany.

The reduction of estrone to estradiol, the most potent estrogen in human, is
catalyzed by 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (17β-HSD1). A promising
approach for the treatment of estrogen-dependent diseases is the reduction of
intracellular estradiol formation by inhibition of 17β-HSD1. For the
species-specific optimization of the (hydroxyphenyl)naphthols, a combinatorial
approach was applied and enhanced by a focused synthesis that resulted in the
aromatic-substituted (hydroxyphenyl)naphthol sulfonamides. Rigidification of 12
led to the 4-indolylsulfonamide 30, which is a highly active and selective human 
17β-HSD1 inhibitor, as well as a highly potent and selective inhibitor of
17β-HSD1 from Callithrix jacchus. It shows no affinity to the estrogen receptors 
α and β and good intracellular activity (T47D). Thus, compound 30 shows good
properties for further ADMET studies and might be a candidate for the in vivo
proof of concept in C. jacchus.

© 2012 American Chemical Society

DOI: 10.1021/jm201735j 
PMID: 22380653  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

