

1758. J Med Chem. 2012 Apr 12;55(7):3307-18. doi: 10.1021/jm201735j. Epub 2012 Mar 16.

Lead optimization of 17β-HSD1 inhibitors of the (hydroxyphenyl)naphthol
sulfonamide type for the treatment of endometriosis.

Henn C(1), Einspanier A, Marchais-Oberwinkler S, Frotscher M, Hartmann RW.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Saarland University, Campus C2 3,
D-66041 Saarbrücken, Germany.

The reduction of estrone to estradiol, the most potent estrogen in human, is
catalyzed by 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (17β-HSD1). A promising
approach for the treatment of estrogen-dependent diseases is the reduction of
intracellular estradiol formation by inhibition of 17β-HSD1. For the
species-specific optimization of the (hydroxyphenyl)naphthols, a combinatorial
approach was applied and enhanced by a focused synthesis that resulted in the
aromatic-substituted (hydroxyphenyl)naphthol sulfonamides. Rigidification of 12
led to the 4-indolylsulfonamide 30, which is a highly active and selective human 
17β-HSD1 inhibitor, as well as a highly potent and selective inhibitor of
17β-HSD1 from Callithrix jacchus. It shows no affinity to the estrogen receptors 
α and β and good intracellular activity (T47D). Thus, compound 30 shows good
properties for further ADMET studies and might be a candidate for the in vivo
proof of concept in C. jacchus.

© 2012 American Chemical Society

DOI: 10.1021/jm201735j 
PMID: 22380653  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1759. Virus Res. 2012 May;165(2):179-89. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2012.02.014. Epub 2012
Feb 25.

Species restriction of Herpesvirus saimiri and Herpesvirus ateles: human
lymphocyte transformation correlates with distinct signaling properties of viral 
oncoproteins.

Katsch K(1), de Jong SJ, Schmidt M, Müller-Fleckenstein I, Fleckenstein B,
Albrecht JC, Biesinger B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.

The potential of Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) subgroups A, B and C and Herpesvirus
ateles (HVA) to transform primary T cells to permanent growth in vitro is
restricted by the primate host species and by viral variability represented by
distinct viral oncoproteins. We now addressed the relation between the
transforming potential of the different viruses and the signaling pathways
activated by transiently expressed oncoproteins. Marmoset lymphocytes were
transformed by all HVS subgroups as well as HVA, while transformation of human
cells was restricted to HVS-C and, unexpectedly, HVA. NF-κB and Src-family kinase
(SFK) activity was required for survival of all transformed lymphocytes.
Accordingly, NF-κB was induced by oncoproteins of all viruses. In contrast,
SFK-related signaling was detectable only for oncoproteins of HVS-C and HVA.
Thus, the restricted transformation of human lymphocytes likely correlates with
the specific SFK targeting by these oncoproteins. These results will enable
further studies into novel SFK effector mechanisms relevant for T-cell
proliferation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2012.02.014 
PMID: 22374337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

