

1759. Virus Res. 2012 May;165(2):179-89. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2012.02.014. Epub 2012
Feb 25.

Species restriction of Herpesvirus saimiri and Herpesvirus ateles: human
lymphocyte transformation correlates with distinct signaling properties of viral 
oncoproteins.

Katsch K(1), de Jong SJ, Schmidt M, Müller-Fleckenstein I, Fleckenstein B,
Albrecht JC, Biesinger B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.

The potential of Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) subgroups A, B and C and Herpesvirus
ateles (HVA) to transform primary T cells to permanent growth in vitro is
restricted by the primate host species and by viral variability represented by
distinct viral oncoproteins. We now addressed the relation between the
transforming potential of the different viruses and the signaling pathways
activated by transiently expressed oncoproteins. Marmoset lymphocytes were
transformed by all HVS subgroups as well as HVA, while transformation of human
cells was restricted to HVS-C and, unexpectedly, HVA. NF-κB and Src-family kinase
(SFK) activity was required for survival of all transformed lymphocytes.
Accordingly, NF-κB was induced by oncoproteins of all viruses. In contrast,
SFK-related signaling was detectable only for oncoproteins of HVS-C and HVA.
Thus, the restricted transformation of human lymphocytes likely correlates with
the specific SFK targeting by these oncoproteins. These results will enable
further studies into novel SFK effector mechanisms relevant for T-cell
proliferation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2012.02.014 
PMID: 22374337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1760. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2012 Aug;111(2):126-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-7843.2012.00872.x. Epub 2012 Mar 17.

Mercury in the spinal cord after inhalation of mercury.

Roos PM(1), Dencker L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
per.roos@ki.se

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) affects anterior horn cells of the spinal
cord causing an indolent slow and steady deterioration of muscle strength leading
inevitably to death in respiratory failure. ALS is a model condition for
neurodegenerative disorders. Exposure to different agents dispersed in the
environment has been suggested to cause neurodegeneration but no convincing
evidence for such a link has yet been presented. Respiratory exposure to metallic
mercury (Hg(0)) from different sources may be suspected. Body distribution of
metallic mercury is fast and depends on solubility properties. Routes of
transport, metabolism, excretion and biological half-life determine the overall
toxic effects. Inhalation experiments were performed in 1984 where small marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were exposed to (203) Hg(0 vapour) mixed into the
breathing air (4-5 μg/l). After 1 hr of exposure, they were killed and whole body
autoradiograms prepared to study the distribution of mercury within organs.
Autoradiograms showed that Hg was deposited inside the spinal cord. Areas of
enhanced accumulation anatomically corresponding to motor nuclei could be
observed. This study describes a reinvestigation, with new emphasis on the spinal
cord, of these classical metal exposure data in a primate, focusing on their
relevance for the causation of neurodegenerative disorders. A comparison with
more recent rodent experiments with similar findings is included. The hypothesis 
that long-time low-dose respiratory exposure to metals, for example, Hg,
contributes to neurodegenerative disorders is forwarded and discussed.

© 2012 The Authors Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology © 2012 Nordic
Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-7843.2012.00872.x 
PMID: 22364490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

