

1769. J Toxicol Sci. 2012 Feb;37(1):33-49.

Metabolism of di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP): comparative study in juvenile
and fetal marmosets and rats.

Kurata Y(1), Makinodan F, Shimamura N, Katoh M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Medience Corporation, 14-1 Sunayama, Kamisu-shi, Ibaraki
314-0225, Japan. Kurata.Yoshimasa@mm.medience.co.jp

We compared the metabolic profile of di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) in
juveniles and fetus between rats and marmosets. STUDY-I: (14)C-DEHP (100 and
2,500 mg/kg) was singly administered to juvenile and adult marmosets by gavage.
C(max) of the radioactivity in juvenile marmosets was 6.45 and 31 Âµg eq./g,
respectively. The radioactivity excreted mainly into feces; however, at least 10%
of the radioactivity was absorbed even at 2,500 mg/kg. No abnormal accumulation
was observed in the male reproductive organs. STUDY-II: (14)C-DEHP (100 mg/kg)
was singly administered to juveniles of rat and marmoset. The plasma
radioactivity in marmosets was about 5% to 9% of that in rats. Free forms of
mono-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (MEHP) and its oxidized metabolites such as oxo-,
OH-, and COOH-MEHP were detected as the main compositions in rat plasma. In
marmosets, free form of MEHP was also detected as a major composition, but not
for oxidized MEHP metabolites. In rats, oxidized MEHP metabolites were excreted
into urine as unconjugated forms. MEHP and its oxidized metabolites were also
detected in marmoset urine; however, they were mostly glucuronized. No specific
accumulation of the radioactivity was noted in the testes of either species;
however, the radioactivity concentration in the marmoset testes was much lower
than that in rats. STUDY-III: (14)C-DEHP (100 mg/kg) was singly administered to
dams on gestation day 130 for marmosets and day 20 for rats. In either species,
no specific accumulation of radioactivity was noted in the testis of fetuses from
the dams treated with (14)C-DEHP; however, the radioactivity in the rat testis
was about 20-times higher than that in the marmoset. Major metabolite components 
in rat whole fetal tissue were free forms of MEHP, OH-MEHP, and oxo-MEHP. Free
form of MEHP was also detected as only a peak in the marmoset fetal tissue.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.37.33 
PMID: 22293410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1770. Biol Reprod. 2012 Apr 27;86(4):123. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.111.097964. Print
2012 Apr.

ACP5 (Uteroferrin): phylogeny of an ancient and conserved gene expressed in the
endometrium of mammals.

Padua MB(1), Lynch VJ, Alvarez NV, Garthwaite MA, Golos TG, Bazer FW, Kalkunte S,
Sharma S, Wagner GP, Hansen PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Sciences and DH Barron Reproductive and Perinatal Biology
Research Program, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611-0910, USA.

Type 5 acid phosphatase (ACP5; also known as tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 
or uteroferrin) is a metalloprotein secreted by the endometrial glandular
epithelium of pigs, mares, sheep, and water buffalo. In this paper, we describe
the phylogenetic distribution of endometrial expression of ACP5 and demonstrate
that endometrial expression arose early in evolution (i.e., before divergence of 
prototherian and therian mammals ~166 million years ago). To determine expression
of ACP5 in the pregnant endometrium, RNA was isolated from rhesus, mouse, rat,
dog, sheep, cow, horse, armadillo, opossum, and duck-billed platypus. Results
from RT-PCR and RNA-Seq experiments confirmed that ACP5 is expressed in all
species examined. ACP5 was also demonstrated immunochemically in endometrium of
rhesus, marmoset, sheep, cow, goat, and opossum. Alignment of inferred amino acid
sequences shows a high conservation of ACP5 throughout speciation, with
species-specific differences most extensive in the N-terminal and C-terminal
regions of the protein. Analysis by Selecton indicated that most of the sites in 
ACP5 are undergoing purifying selection, and no sites undergoing positive
selection were found. In conclusion, endometrial expression of ACP5 is a common
feature in all orders of mammals and has been subjected to purifying selection.
Expression of ACP5 in the uterus predates the divergence of therians and
prototherians. ACP5 is an evolutionary conserved gene that likely exerts a common
function important for pregnancy in mammals using a wide range of reproductive
strategies.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.111.097964 
PMCID: PMC3338662
PMID: 22278982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

