

1770. Biol Reprod. 2012 Apr 27;86(4):123. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.111.097964. Print
2012 Apr.

ACP5 (Uteroferrin): phylogeny of an ancient and conserved gene expressed in the
endometrium of mammals.

Padua MB(1), Lynch VJ, Alvarez NV, Garthwaite MA, Golos TG, Bazer FW, Kalkunte S,
Sharma S, Wagner GP, Hansen PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Sciences and DH Barron Reproductive and Perinatal Biology
Research Program, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611-0910, USA.

Type 5 acid phosphatase (ACP5; also known as tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 
or uteroferrin) is a metalloprotein secreted by the endometrial glandular
epithelium of pigs, mares, sheep, and water buffalo. In this paper, we describe
the phylogenetic distribution of endometrial expression of ACP5 and demonstrate
that endometrial expression arose early in evolution (i.e., before divergence of 
prototherian and therian mammals ~166 million years ago). To determine expression
of ACP5 in the pregnant endometrium, RNA was isolated from rhesus, mouse, rat,
dog, sheep, cow, horse, armadillo, opossum, and duck-billed platypus. Results
from RT-PCR and RNA-Seq experiments confirmed that ACP5 is expressed in all
species examined. ACP5 was also demonstrated immunochemically in endometrium of
rhesus, marmoset, sheep, cow, goat, and opossum. Alignment of inferred amino acid
sequences shows a high conservation of ACP5 throughout speciation, with
species-specific differences most extensive in the N-terminal and C-terminal
regions of the protein. Analysis by Selecton indicated that most of the sites in 
ACP5 are undergoing purifying selection, and no sites undergoing positive
selection were found. In conclusion, endometrial expression of ACP5 is a common
feature in all orders of mammals and has been subjected to purifying selection.
Expression of ACP5 in the uterus predates the divergence of therians and
prototherians. ACP5 is an evolutionary conserved gene that likely exerts a common
function important for pregnancy in mammals using a wide range of reproductive
strategies.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.111.097964 
PMCID: PMC3338662
PMID: 22278982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1771. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2012 May;198(5):337-46.
doi: 10.1007/s00359-012-0712-7. Epub 2012 Jan 26.

Individual recognition during bouts of antiphonal calling in common marmosets.

Miller CT(1), Wren Thomas A.

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, 9500 Gilman Dr. #0109, La Jolla, San Diego, CA 92093, USA.
corymiller@ucsd.edu

Many vocalizations are encoded with a diversity of acoustic information about the
signal producer. Amongst this information content are social categories related
to the identity of the caller that are important for determining if and how a
signal receiver may interact with that individual. Here, we employed a novel
playback method in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to test individual
recognition during bouts of antiphonal calling. These experiments utilized
custom, interactive playback software that effectively engaged subjects in
antiphonal calling using vocalizations produced by a single individual and
presented 'probe' vocalization stimuli representing a different individual at
specific points within bouts of calling. The aim here was to test whether
marmosets would recognize that the probe stimulus was a phee call produced by a
different individual. Data indicated that marmosets were able to detect the
change in caller identity; subjects produced significantly fewer antiphonal call 
responses to probe than control stimuli and, in some conditions, exhibited a
shorter latency to produce the vocal response. These data suggest that marmosets 
recognize the identity of the individual during bouts of antiphonal calling.
Furthermore, these results provide a methodological foundation for implementing
the probe playback procedure to examine a broader range of social categorization 
during vocal interactions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-012-0712-7 
PMCID: PMC3799814
PMID: 22277952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

