

1771. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2012 May;198(5):337-46.
doi: 10.1007/s00359-012-0712-7. Epub 2012 Jan 26.

Individual recognition during bouts of antiphonal calling in common marmosets.

Miller CT(1), Wren Thomas A.

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, 9500 Gilman Dr. #0109, La Jolla, San Diego, CA 92093, USA.
corymiller@ucsd.edu

Many vocalizations are encoded with a diversity of acoustic information about the
signal producer. Amongst this information content are social categories related
to the identity of the caller that are important for determining if and how a
signal receiver may interact with that individual. Here, we employed a novel
playback method in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to test individual
recognition during bouts of antiphonal calling. These experiments utilized
custom, interactive playback software that effectively engaged subjects in
antiphonal calling using vocalizations produced by a single individual and
presented 'probe' vocalization stimuli representing a different individual at
specific points within bouts of calling. The aim here was to test whether
marmosets would recognize that the probe stimulus was a phee call produced by a
different individual. Data indicated that marmosets were able to detect the
change in caller identity; subjects produced significantly fewer antiphonal call 
responses to probe than control stimuli and, in some conditions, exhibited a
shorter latency to produce the vocal response. These data suggest that marmosets 
recognize the identity of the individual during bouts of antiphonal calling.
Furthermore, these results provide a methodological foundation for implementing
the probe playback procedure to examine a broader range of social categorization 
during vocal interactions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-012-0712-7 
PMCID: PMC3799814
PMID: 22277952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1772. J Med Chem. 2012 Mar 8;55(5):2469-73. doi: 10.1021/jm201711b. Epub 2012 Feb 23.

Optimization of hydroxybenzothiazoles as novel potent and selective inhibitors of
17β-HSD1.

Spadaro A(1), Frotscher M, Hartmann RW.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Saarland University, Campus C23,
D-66123 Saarbrücken, Germany.

17β-HSD1 is a novel target for the treatment of estrogen-dependent diseases, as
it catalyzes intracellular estradiol formation. Starting from two recently
described compounds, highly active and selective inhibitors were developed.
Benzoyl 6 and benzamide 17 are the most selective compounds toward 17β-HSD2
described so far. They also showed a promising profile regarding activity in
T47-D cells, selectivity toward ERα and ERβ, inhibition of hepatic CYP enzymes,
metabolic stability, and inhibition of marmoset 17β-HSD1 and 17β-HSD2.

DOI: 10.1021/jm201711b 
PMID: 22277094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

