

1772. J Med Chem. 2012 Mar 8;55(5):2469-73. doi: 10.1021/jm201711b. Epub 2012 Feb 23.

Optimization of hydroxybenzothiazoles as novel potent and selective inhibitors of
17β-HSD1.

Spadaro A(1), Frotscher M, Hartmann RW.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Saarland University, Campus C23,
D-66123 Saarbrücken, Germany.

17β-HSD1 is a novel target for the treatment of estrogen-dependent diseases, as
it catalyzes intracellular estradiol formation. Starting from two recently
described compounds, highly active and selective inhibitors were developed.
Benzoyl 6 and benzamide 17 are the most selective compounds toward 17β-HSD2
described so far. They also showed a promising profile regarding activity in
T47-D cells, selectivity toward ERα and ERβ, inhibition of hepatic CYP enzymes,
metabolic stability, and inhibition of marmoset 17β-HSD1 and 17β-HSD2.

DOI: 10.1021/jm201711b 
PMID: 22277094  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1773. J Comp Psychol. 2013 Feb;127(1):76-81. doi: 10.1037/a0026797. Epub 2012 Jan 23.

Spontaneous alternation behavior in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Izumi A(1), Tsuchida J, Yamaguchi C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral andBrain Sciences, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto 
University, Inuyama, Japan. izumi@pri.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Whether common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) exhibit spontaneous alternation
behavior was examined. Marmosets were allowed to explore one of the two arms of a
Y-shaped maze, and after delays of various lengths, their preference to enter the
previously entered or alternate arms was examined. The marmosets showed
spontaneous alternation behavior; they preferred to enter the alternate arm after
a delay of 2 hours or shorter, but such a preference was lost after a 24-hr
delay. The loss of the alternation with longer delay can be discussed in terms of
marmosets' foraging strategies. When the visual cue at the entered arm was
changed after the initial exploration, the marmosets did not exhibit spontaneous 
alternation, suggesting that the visual cue had some role in the alternation
behavior. Spontaneous alternation behavior in marmosets will provide an
opportunity to simply measure their memory without providing specific task
training.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved

DOI: 10.1037/a0026797 
PMID: 22268554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

