

1774. J Comp Psychol. 2013 May;127(2):212-25. doi: 10.1037/a0026392. Epub 2012 Jan 16.

Group service in macaques (Macaca fuscata), capuchins (Cebus apella) and
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): a comparative approach to identifying proactive
prosocial motivations.

Burkart JM(1), van Schaik C.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich, Zurich,
Switzerland. Judith.Burkart@aim.uzh.ch

Proactive, that is, spontaneous, prosociality reflects a psychological interest
in the welfare of others and has been reported in callitrichid monkeys, capuchin 
monkeys (Cebus apella), and humans, but not in chimpanzees. One explanation for
the co-occurrence of proactive prosociality in these species is that it is linked
to shared infant care (cooperative breeding); alternatively, it might merely
reflect unusually high social tolerance or be mediated by advanced cognitive
abilities. To date, distinguishing between these alternative explanations is
difficult, partly because available evidence is restricted to only a handful of
species and partly because methodological differences thwart comparisons across
studies. Here, we present an experimental paradigm called group service, which
allows estimation of both social tolerance and proactive prosociality in group
settings. Its simplicity makes it intuitively plausible to subjects and allows
testing a broad variety of species, including in zoos. We applied the test to
independently breeding Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata), cooperatively breeding
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and capuchin monkeys with an intermediate 
breeding system. Social tolerance was slightly higher in marmosets than capuchins
and much higher in both compared to macaques, but only marmosets provided a
service to other group members. Furthermore, we validated the group service
paradigm in the common marmosets by comparing their performance to earlier data. 
Although our results are consistent with the cooperative breeding hypothesis, a
comprehensive evaluation requires adding data from additional groups and species,
which should be facilitated by the group service approach.

DOI: 10.1037/a0026392 
PMID: 22250970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1775. Neuroimage. 2012 Mar;60(1):447-55. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.12.065. Epub
2012 Jan 2.

Positron emission tomography assessment of 8-OH-DPAT-mediated changes in an index
of cerebral glucose metabolism in female marmosets.

Converse AK(1), Aubert Y, Farhoud M, Weichert JP, Rowland IJ, Ingrisano NM,
Allers KA, Sommer B, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53704, USA.
akconverse@wisc.edu

As part of a larger experiment investigating serotonergic regulation of female
marmoset sexual behavior, this study was designed to (1) advance methods for PET 
imaging of common marmoset monkey brain, (2) measure normalized FDG uptake as an 
index of local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose, and (3) study changes
induced in this index of cerebral glucose metabolism by chronic treatment of
female marmosets with a serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)) agonist. We hypothesized
that chronic treatment with the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT would alter the
glucose metabolism index in dorsal raphe (DR), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC),
medial preoptic area of hypothalamus (mPOA), ventromedial nucleus of hypothalamus
(VMH), and field CA1 of hippocampus. Eight adult ovariectomized female common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were studied with and without estradiol
replacement. In a crossover design, each subject was treated daily with 8-OH-DPAT
(0.1mg/kg SC daily) or saline. After 42-49 days of treatment, the glucose
metabolism radiotracer FDG was administered to each female immediately prior to
30 min of interaction with her male pairmate, after which the subject was
anesthetized and imaged by PET. Whole brain normalized PET images were analyzed
with anatomically defined regions of interest (ROI). Whole brain voxelwise
mapping was also used to explore treatment effects and correlations between
alterations in the glucose metabolism index and pairmate interactions. The rank
order of normalized FDG uptake was VMH/mPOA>DR>mPFC/CA1 in both conditions.
8-OH-DPAT did not induce alterations in the glucose metabolism index in ROIs.
Voxelwise mapping showed a significant reduction in normalized FDG uptake in
response to 8-OH-DPAT in a cluster in medial occipital cortex as well as a
significant correlation between increased rejection of mount attempts and reduced
normalized FDG uptake in an overlapping cluster. In conclusion, PET imaging has
been used to measure FDG uptake relative to whole brain in marmoset monkeys.
Voxelwise mapping shows that 8-OH-DPAT reduces this index of glucose metabolism
in medial occipital cortex, consistent with alterations in female sexual
behavior.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.12.065 
PMCID: PMC3763841
PMID: 22233732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

