

1775. Neuroimage. 2012 Mar;60(1):447-55. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.12.065. Epub
2012 Jan 2.

Positron emission tomography assessment of 8-OH-DPAT-mediated changes in an index
of cerebral glucose metabolism in female marmosets.

Converse AK(1), Aubert Y, Farhoud M, Weichert JP, Rowland IJ, Ingrisano NM,
Allers KA, Sommer B, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53704, USA.
akconverse@wisc.edu

As part of a larger experiment investigating serotonergic regulation of female
marmoset sexual behavior, this study was designed to (1) advance methods for PET 
imaging of common marmoset monkey brain, (2) measure normalized FDG uptake as an 
index of local cerebral metabolic rates for glucose, and (3) study changes
induced in this index of cerebral glucose metabolism by chronic treatment of
female marmosets with a serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)) agonist. We hypothesized
that chronic treatment with the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT would alter the
glucose metabolism index in dorsal raphe (DR), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC),
medial preoptic area of hypothalamus (mPOA), ventromedial nucleus of hypothalamus
(VMH), and field CA1 of hippocampus. Eight adult ovariectomized female common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were studied with and without estradiol
replacement. In a crossover design, each subject was treated daily with 8-OH-DPAT
(0.1mg/kg SC daily) or saline. After 42-49 days of treatment, the glucose
metabolism radiotracer FDG was administered to each female immediately prior to
30 min of interaction with her male pairmate, after which the subject was
anesthetized and imaged by PET. Whole brain normalized PET images were analyzed
with anatomically defined regions of interest (ROI). Whole brain voxelwise
mapping was also used to explore treatment effects and correlations between
alterations in the glucose metabolism index and pairmate interactions. The rank
order of normalized FDG uptake was VMH/mPOA>DR>mPFC/CA1 in both conditions.
8-OH-DPAT did not induce alterations in the glucose metabolism index in ROIs.
Voxelwise mapping showed a significant reduction in normalized FDG uptake in
response to 8-OH-DPAT in a cluster in medial occipital cortex as well as a
significant correlation between increased rejection of mount attempts and reduced
normalized FDG uptake in an overlapping cluster. In conclusion, PET imaging has
been used to measure FDG uptake relative to whole brain in marmoset monkeys.
Voxelwise mapping shows that 8-OH-DPAT reduces this index of glucose metabolism
in medial occipital cortex, consistent with alterations in female sexual
behavior.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.12.065 
PMCID: PMC3763841
PMID: 22233732  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1776. Reproduction. 2012 Apr;143(4):501-11. doi: 10.1530/REP-11-0091. Epub 2012 Jan 9.

Ovarian VEGF(165)b expression regulates follicular development, corpus luteum
function and fertility.

Qiu Y(1), Seager M, Osman A, Castle-Miller J, Bevan H, Tortonese DJ, Murphy D,
Harper SJ, Fraser HM, Donaldson LF, Bates DO.

Author information: 
(1)Microvascular Research Laboratories, School of Physiology and Pharmacology,
Bristol Heart Institute, Bristol BS2 8EJ, UK.

Angiogenesis and vascular regression are critical for the female ovulatory cycle.
They enable progression and regression of follicular development, and corpora
lutea formation and regression. Angiogenesis in the ovary occurs under the
control of the vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGFA) family of proteins,
which are generated as both pro-(VEGF(165)) and anti(VEGF(165)b)-angiogenic
isoforms by alternative splicing. To determine the role of the VEGF(165)b
isoforms in the ovulatory cycle, we measured VEGF(165)b expression in marmoset
ovaries by immunohistochemistry and ELISA, and used transgenic mice
over-expressing VEGF(165)b in the ovary. VEGF(165)b was expressed in the marmoset
ovaries in granulosa cells and theca, and the balance of VEGF(165)b:VEGF(165) was
regulated during luteogenesis. Mice over-expressing VEGF(165)b in the ovary were 
less fertile than wild-type littermates, had reduced secondary and tertiary
follicles after mating, increased atretic follicles, fewer corpora lutea and
generated fewer embryos in the oviduct after mating, and these were more likely
not to retain the corona radiata. These results indicate that the balance of
VEGFA isoforms controls follicle progression and luteogenesis, and that control
of isoform expression may regulate fertility in mammals, including in primates.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-11-0091 
PMCID: PMC3325318
PMID: 22232745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

