

1776. Reproduction. 2012 Apr;143(4):501-11. doi: 10.1530/REP-11-0091. Epub 2012 Jan 9.

Ovarian VEGF(165)b expression regulates follicular development, corpus luteum
function and fertility.

Qiu Y(1), Seager M, Osman A, Castle-Miller J, Bevan H, Tortonese DJ, Murphy D,
Harper SJ, Fraser HM, Donaldson LF, Bates DO.

Author information: 
(1)Microvascular Research Laboratories, School of Physiology and Pharmacology,
Bristol Heart Institute, Bristol BS2 8EJ, UK.

Angiogenesis and vascular regression are critical for the female ovulatory cycle.
They enable progression and regression of follicular development, and corpora
lutea formation and regression. Angiogenesis in the ovary occurs under the
control of the vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGFA) family of proteins,
which are generated as both pro-(VEGF(165)) and anti(VEGF(165)b)-angiogenic
isoforms by alternative splicing. To determine the role of the VEGF(165)b
isoforms in the ovulatory cycle, we measured VEGF(165)b expression in marmoset
ovaries by immunohistochemistry and ELISA, and used transgenic mice
over-expressing VEGF(165)b in the ovary. VEGF(165)b was expressed in the marmoset
ovaries in granulosa cells and theca, and the balance of VEGF(165)b:VEGF(165) was
regulated during luteogenesis. Mice over-expressing VEGF(165)b in the ovary were 
less fertile than wild-type littermates, had reduced secondary and tertiary
follicles after mating, increased atretic follicles, fewer corpora lutea and
generated fewer embryos in the oviduct after mating, and these were more likely
not to retain the corona radiata. These results indicate that the balance of
VEGFA isoforms controls follicle progression and luteogenesis, and that control
of isoform expression may regulate fertility in mammals, including in primates.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-11-0091 
PMCID: PMC3325318
PMID: 22232745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1777. Syst Appl Microbiol. 2012 Mar;35(2):92-7. doi: 10.1016/j.syapm.2011.11.006. Epub 
2012 Jan 4.

Bifidobacterium reuteri sp. nov., Bifidobacterium callitrichos sp. nov.,
Bifidobacterium saguini sp. nov., Bifidobacterium stellenboschense sp. nov. and
Bifidobacterium biavatii sp. nov. isolated from faeces of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas).

Endo A(1), Futagawa-Endo Y, Schumann P, Pukall R, Dicks LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Stellenbosch, 7600 Stellenbosch,
South Africa. pegaman@hotmail.co.jp

Five strains of bifidobacteria were isolated from faeces of a common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and a red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas). The five isolates
clustered inside the phylogenetic group of the genus Bifidobacterium but did not 
show high sequence similarities between the isolates and to known species in the 
genus by phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences. Sequence
analyses of dnaJ1 and hsp60 also indicated their independent phylogenetic
positions to each other in the Bifidobacterium cluster. DNA G+C contents of the
species ranged from 57.3 to 66.3 mol%, which is within the values recorded for
Bifidobacterium species. All isolates showed fructose-6-phosphate phosphoketolase
activity. Based on the data provided, the five isolates represent five novel
species, for which the names Bifidobacterium reuteri sp. nov. (type strain:
AFB22-1(T) = JCM 17295(T) = DSM 23975(T)), Bifidobacterium callitrichos sp. nov. 
(type strain: AFB22-5(T) = JCM 17296(T) = DSM 23973(T)), Bifidobacterium saguini 
sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-1(T) = JCM 17297(T) = DSM 23967(T)), Bifidobacterium
stellenboschense sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-3(T) = JCM 17298(T) = DSM 23968(T))
and Bifidobacterium biavatii sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-4(T) = JCM 17299(T) =
DSM 23969(T)) are proposed.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.syapm.2011.11.006 
PMID: 22225994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

