

1777. Syst Appl Microbiol. 2012 Mar;35(2):92-7. doi: 10.1016/j.syapm.2011.11.006. Epub 
2012 Jan 4.

Bifidobacterium reuteri sp. nov., Bifidobacterium callitrichos sp. nov.,
Bifidobacterium saguini sp. nov., Bifidobacterium stellenboschense sp. nov. and
Bifidobacterium biavatii sp. nov. isolated from faeces of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas).

Endo A(1), Futagawa-Endo Y, Schumann P, Pukall R, Dicks LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Stellenbosch, 7600 Stellenbosch,
South Africa. pegaman@hotmail.co.jp

Five strains of bifidobacteria were isolated from faeces of a common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and a red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas). The five isolates
clustered inside the phylogenetic group of the genus Bifidobacterium but did not 
show high sequence similarities between the isolates and to known species in the 
genus by phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences. Sequence
analyses of dnaJ1 and hsp60 also indicated their independent phylogenetic
positions to each other in the Bifidobacterium cluster. DNA G+C contents of the
species ranged from 57.3 to 66.3 mol%, which is within the values recorded for
Bifidobacterium species. All isolates showed fructose-6-phosphate phosphoketolase
activity. Based on the data provided, the five isolates represent five novel
species, for which the names Bifidobacterium reuteri sp. nov. (type strain:
AFB22-1(T) = JCM 17295(T) = DSM 23975(T)), Bifidobacterium callitrichos sp. nov. 
(type strain: AFB22-5(T) = JCM 17296(T) = DSM 23973(T)), Bifidobacterium saguini 
sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-1(T) = JCM 17297(T) = DSM 23967(T)), Bifidobacterium
stellenboschense sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-3(T) = JCM 17298(T) = DSM 23968(T))
and Bifidobacterium biavatii sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-4(T) = JCM 17299(T) =
DSM 23969(T)) are proposed.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.syapm.2011.11.006 
PMID: 22225994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1778. Theriogenology. 2012 Apr 15;77(7):1297-311. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2011.10.035. Epub 2012 Jan 5.

Variations of chromatin, tubulin and actin structures in primate oocytes arrested
during in vitro maturation and fertilization--what is this telling us about the
relationships between cytoskeletal and chromatin meiotic defects?

Delimitreva S(1), Tkachenko OY, Berenson A, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany. delimitreva@yahoo.com

A nonhuman primate model was applied to investigate the relationships between
variations in the organization of microtubules, microfilaments, and chromatin in 
metaphase I and metaphase II oocytes. Marmoset oocytes were subjected to in vitro
maturation and coincubation with sperm. Oocytes which failed to cleave were
investigated for chromatin, tubulin, and actin using Hoechst 33258, fluorescein
isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled alpha-tubulin antibody and rhodamine-labeled
phalloidin, respectively. Spindles were categorized according to size, shape and 
microtubule organization: normal, large, multipolar, disorganized, absent
spindle, and spindles with broad poles. Actin caps were categorized as: normal,
small, split, and disorganized. Chromosomal condensation and alignment were
described as normal or abnormal. Improper chromosomal condensation was associated
with both abnormal microfilament and microtubule arrangement. This was further
associated with abnormal actin organization, disorientation and late
stabilization of microtubules, but not related to abnormal organization of
spindle poles. Chromosomal misalignment was associated with disorientation and
late stabilization of tubulin, but not to broad spindle pole. Additionally,
abnormal actin polarization appeared not to be related to abnormal spindle poles.
The model system presented in this study could be used as an experimental
platform for studying the contribution of different factors to the exactness of
late meiotic events in primate oocytes. The present study provides basic
information on spindle, chromosome, and actin normal and abnormal organization,
which can be observed in in vitro matured, but failed to cleave primate oocytes.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2011.10.035 
PMID: 22225695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

