

1778. Theriogenology. 2012 Apr 15;77(7):1297-311. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2011.10.035. Epub 2012 Jan 5.

Variations of chromatin, tubulin and actin structures in primate oocytes arrested
during in vitro maturation and fertilization--what is this telling us about the
relationships between cytoskeletal and chromatin meiotic defects?

Delimitreva S(1), Tkachenko OY, Berenson A, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany. delimitreva@yahoo.com

A nonhuman primate model was applied to investigate the relationships between
variations in the organization of microtubules, microfilaments, and chromatin in 
metaphase I and metaphase II oocytes. Marmoset oocytes were subjected to in vitro
maturation and coincubation with sperm. Oocytes which failed to cleave were
investigated for chromatin, tubulin, and actin using Hoechst 33258, fluorescein
isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled alpha-tubulin antibody and rhodamine-labeled
phalloidin, respectively. Spindles were categorized according to size, shape and 
microtubule organization: normal, large, multipolar, disorganized, absent
spindle, and spindles with broad poles. Actin caps were categorized as: normal,
small, split, and disorganized. Chromosomal condensation and alignment were
described as normal or abnormal. Improper chromosomal condensation was associated
with both abnormal microfilament and microtubule arrangement. This was further
associated with abnormal actin organization, disorientation and late
stabilization of microtubules, but not related to abnormal organization of
spindle poles. Chromosomal misalignment was associated with disorientation and
late stabilization of tubulin, but not to broad spindle pole. Additionally,
abnormal actin polarization appeared not to be related to abnormal spindle poles.
The model system presented in this study could be used as an experimental
platform for studying the contribution of different factors to the exactness of
late meiotic events in primate oocytes. The present study provides basic
information on spindle, chromosome, and actin normal and abnormal organization,
which can be observed in in vitro matured, but failed to cleave primate oocytes.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2011.10.035 
PMID: 22225695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1779. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2012 Aug;67(8):841-52. doi: 10.1093/gerona/glr216.
Epub 2012 Jan 4.

Testing the oxidative stress hypothesis of aging in primate fibroblasts: is there
a correlation between species longevity and cellular ROS production?

Csiszar A(1), Podlutsky A, Podlutskaya N, Sonntag WE, Merlin SZ, Philipp EE,
Doyle K, Davila A, Recchia FA, Ballabh P, Pinto JT, Ungvari Z.

Author information: 
(1)Reynolds Oklahoma Center on Aging, Department of Geriatric Medicine,
University of Oklahoma Health Science Center, 975 NE 10th Street, BRC-1315A,
Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA. annacsiszar@ouhsc.edu

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2014 Sep;69(9):1096-8.

The present study was conducted to test predictions of the oxidative stress
theory of aging assessing reactive oxygen species production and oxidative stress
resistance in cultured fibroblasts from 13 primate species ranging in body size
from 0.25 to 120 kg and in longevity from 20 to 90 years. We assessed both basal 
and stress-induced reactive oxygen species production in fibroblasts from five
great apes (human, chimpanzee, bonobo, gorilla, and orangutan), four Old World
monkeys (baboon, rhesus and crested black macaques, and patas monkey), three New 
World monkeys (common marmoset, red-bellied tamarin, and woolly monkey), and one 
lemur (ring-tailed lemur). Measurements of cellular MitoSox fluorescence, an
indicator of mitochondrial superoxide (O2(·-)) generation, showed an inverse
correlation between longevity and steady state or metabolic stress-induced
mitochondrial O2(·-) production, but this correlation was lost when the effects
of body mass were removed, and the data were analyzed using phylogenetically
independent contrasts. Fibroblasts from longer-lived primate species also
exhibited superior resistance to H(2)O(2)-induced apoptotic cell death than cells
from shorter-living primates. After correction for body mass and lack of
phylogenetic independence, this correlation, although still discernible, fell
short of significance by regression analysis. Thus, increased longevity in this
sample of primates is not causally associated with low cellular reactive oxygen
species generation, but further studies are warranted to test the association
between increased cellular resistance to oxidative stressor and primate
longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glr216 
PMCID: PMC3403864
PMID: 22219516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

