

1779. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2012 Aug;67(8):841-52. doi: 10.1093/gerona/glr216.
Epub 2012 Jan 4.

Testing the oxidative stress hypothesis of aging in primate fibroblasts: is there
a correlation between species longevity and cellular ROS production?

Csiszar A(1), Podlutsky A, Podlutskaya N, Sonntag WE, Merlin SZ, Philipp EE,
Doyle K, Davila A, Recchia FA, Ballabh P, Pinto JT, Ungvari Z.

Author information: 
(1)Reynolds Oklahoma Center on Aging, Department of Geriatric Medicine,
University of Oklahoma Health Science Center, 975 NE 10th Street, BRC-1315A,
Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA. annacsiszar@ouhsc.edu

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2014 Sep;69(9):1096-8.

The present study was conducted to test predictions of the oxidative stress
theory of aging assessing reactive oxygen species production and oxidative stress
resistance in cultured fibroblasts from 13 primate species ranging in body size
from 0.25 to 120 kg and in longevity from 20 to 90 years. We assessed both basal 
and stress-induced reactive oxygen species production in fibroblasts from five
great apes (human, chimpanzee, bonobo, gorilla, and orangutan), four Old World
monkeys (baboon, rhesus and crested black macaques, and patas monkey), three New 
World monkeys (common marmoset, red-bellied tamarin, and woolly monkey), and one 
lemur (ring-tailed lemur). Measurements of cellular MitoSox fluorescence, an
indicator of mitochondrial superoxide (O2(·-)) generation, showed an inverse
correlation between longevity and steady state or metabolic stress-induced
mitochondrial O2(·-) production, but this correlation was lost when the effects
of body mass were removed, and the data were analyzed using phylogenetically
independent contrasts. Fibroblasts from longer-lived primate species also
exhibited superior resistance to H(2)O(2)-induced apoptotic cell death than cells
from shorter-living primates. After correction for body mass and lack of
phylogenetic independence, this correlation, although still discernible, fell
short of significance by regression analysis. Thus, increased longevity in this
sample of primates is not causally associated with low cellular reactive oxygen
species generation, but further studies are warranted to test the association
between increased cellular resistance to oxidative stressor and primate
longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glr216 
PMCID: PMC3403864
PMID: 22219516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1780. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2012 Feb 1;175(3):519-26. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.12.020. 
Epub 2011 Dec 26.

Natural variation in gestational cortisol is associated with patterns of growth
in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Mustoe AC(1), Birnie AK, Korgan AC, Santo JB, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
amustoe@unomaha.edu

High levels of prenatal cortisol have been previously reported to retard fetal
growth. Although cortisol plays a pivotal role in prenatal maturation, heightened
exposure to cortisol can result in lower body weights at birth, which have been
shown to be associated with adult diseases like hypertension and cardiovascular
disease. This study examines the relationship between natural variation in
gestational cortisol and fetal and postnatal growth in marmoset monkeys. Urinary 
samples obtained during the mother's gestation were analyzed for cortisol.
Marmoset body mass index (BMI) was measured from birth through 540 days in 30- or
60-day intervals. Multi-level modeling was used to test if marmoset growth over
time was predicted by changes in gestational cortisol controlling for time, sex, 
litter, and litter size. The results show that offspring exposed to intra-uterine
environments with elevated levels of cortisol had lower linear BMI rates of
change shortly after birth than did offspring exposed to lower levels of
cortisol, but exhibited a higher curvilinear growth rate during adolescence.
Average daily change in gestational cortisol during the first trimester had a
stronger relationship with postnatal growth than change during the third
trimester. Higher exposure to cortisol during gestation does alter developmental 
trajectories, however there appears to be a catch-up period during later
post-natal growth. These observations contribute to a larger discussion about the
relationship of maternal glucocorticoids on offspring development and the
possibility of an earlier vulnerable developmental window.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.12.020 
PMCID: PMC3268124
PMID: 22212825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

