

1780. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2012 Feb 1;175(3):519-26. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.12.020. 
Epub 2011 Dec 26.

Natural variation in gestational cortisol is associated with patterns of growth
in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Mustoe AC(1), Birnie AK, Korgan AC, Santo JB, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
amustoe@unomaha.edu

High levels of prenatal cortisol have been previously reported to retard fetal
growth. Although cortisol plays a pivotal role in prenatal maturation, heightened
exposure to cortisol can result in lower body weights at birth, which have been
shown to be associated with adult diseases like hypertension and cardiovascular
disease. This study examines the relationship between natural variation in
gestational cortisol and fetal and postnatal growth in marmoset monkeys. Urinary 
samples obtained during the mother's gestation were analyzed for cortisol.
Marmoset body mass index (BMI) was measured from birth through 540 days in 30- or
60-day intervals. Multi-level modeling was used to test if marmoset growth over
time was predicted by changes in gestational cortisol controlling for time, sex, 
litter, and litter size. The results show that offspring exposed to intra-uterine
environments with elevated levels of cortisol had lower linear BMI rates of
change shortly after birth than did offspring exposed to lower levels of
cortisol, but exhibited a higher curvilinear growth rate during adolescence.
Average daily change in gestational cortisol during the first trimester had a
stronger relationship with postnatal growth than change during the third
trimester. Higher exposure to cortisol during gestation does alter developmental 
trajectories, however there appears to be a catch-up period during later
post-natal growth. These observations contribute to a larger discussion about the
relationship of maternal glucocorticoids on offspring development and the
possibility of an earlier vulnerable developmental window.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.12.020 
PMCID: PMC3268124
PMID: 22212825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1781. Horm Behav. 2012 Feb;61(2):196-203. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2011.12.006. Epub 2011
Dec 22.

Stress reactivity in young marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi): ontogeny, stability,
and lack of concordance among co-twins.

French JA(1), Smith AS, Gleason AM, Birnie AK, Mustoe A, Korgan A.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182, USA. jfrench@unomaha.edu

Variation in response styles in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis are
known to be predictors of short- and long-term health outcomes. The nature of HPA
responses to stressors changes with developmental stage, and some components of
the stress response exhibit long-term individual consistency (i.e., are
trait-like) while others are transient or variable (i.e., state-like). Here we
evaluated the response of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi) to a
standardized social stressor (social separation and exposure to a novel
environment) at three different stages of development: juvenile, subadult, and
young adult. We monitored levels of urinary cortisol (CORT), and derived multiple
measures of HPA activity: Baseline CORT, CORT reactivity, CORT Area Under the
Curve (AUC), and CORT regulation. Juvenile marmosets exhibited the most dramatic 
stress response, had higher AUCs, and tended to show poorer regulation. While
baseline CORT and CORT regulation were not consistent within an individual across
age, CORT reactivity and measures of AUC were highly correlated across time;
i.e., individuals with high stress reactivity and AUC as juveniles also had high 
measures as subadults and adults, and vice-versa. Marmoset co-twins did not
exhibit similar patterns of stress reactivity. These data suggest that regardless
of the source of variation in stress response styles in marmosets,
individually-distinctive patterns are established by six months of age, and
persist for at least a year throughout different phases of marmoset life history.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2011.12.006 
PMCID: PMC3278562
PMID: 22210196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

