

1781. Horm Behav. 2012 Feb;61(2):196-203. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2011.12.006. Epub 2011
Dec 22.

Stress reactivity in young marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi): ontogeny, stability,
and lack of concordance among co-twins.

French JA(1), Smith AS, Gleason AM, Birnie AK, Mustoe A, Korgan A.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182, USA. jfrench@unomaha.edu

Variation in response styles in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis are
known to be predictors of short- and long-term health outcomes. The nature of HPA
responses to stressors changes with developmental stage, and some components of
the stress response exhibit long-term individual consistency (i.e., are
trait-like) while others are transient or variable (i.e., state-like). Here we
evaluated the response of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi) to a
standardized social stressor (social separation and exposure to a novel
environment) at three different stages of development: juvenile, subadult, and
young adult. We monitored levels of urinary cortisol (CORT), and derived multiple
measures of HPA activity: Baseline CORT, CORT reactivity, CORT Area Under the
Curve (AUC), and CORT regulation. Juvenile marmosets exhibited the most dramatic 
stress response, had higher AUCs, and tended to show poorer regulation. While
baseline CORT and CORT regulation were not consistent within an individual across
age, CORT reactivity and measures of AUC were highly correlated across time;
i.e., individuals with high stress reactivity and AUC as juveniles also had high 
measures as subadults and adults, and vice-versa. Marmoset co-twins did not
exhibit similar patterns of stress reactivity. These data suggest that regardless
of the source of variation in stress response styles in marmosets,
individually-distinctive patterns are established by six months of age, and
persist for at least a year throughout different phases of marmoset life history.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2011.12.006 
PMCID: PMC3278562
PMID: 22210196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1782. Behaviour. 2012;149(3-4):407-440. doi: 10.1163/156853912X638454.

Behavioral characteristics of pair bonding in the black tufted-ear marmoset
(Callithrix penicillata).

Ågmo A(1), Smith AS(2), Birnie AK(3), French JA(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway.
(2)Department of Psychology and Program in Neuroscience, Florida State
University, Tallahassee, FL, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Facility, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.

The present study describes how the development of a pair bond modifies social,
sexual and aggressive behavior. Five heterosexual pairs of marmosets, previously 
unknown to each other, were formed at the beginning of the study. At the onset of
pairing, social, sexual, exploratory and aggressive behaviors were recorded for
40 min. The animals were then observed for 20 min, both in the morning and
afternoon for 21 days. The frequency and/or duration of behaviors recorded on Day
1 were compared to those recorded at later observations. The behavior displayed
shortly after pairing should be completely unaffected by the pair bond, while
such a bond should be present at later observations. Thus, it was possible to
determine how the behavior between the pair was modified by the development of a 
pair bond. Social behaviors increased from Day 1 to Days 2-6 and all subsequent
days observed. Conversely, other behaviors, such as open mouth displays (usually 
considered to be an invitation to sexual activity), had a high frequency during
the early part of cohabitation but declined towards the end. Consequently, pair
bonding manifests itself in an increased intensity of social behaviors. It is
suggested that the intrinsically rewarding properties of grooming and perhaps
other social behaviors turn the pair mate into a positive incentive, activating
approach and further interactions when possible. Thus, the pair bond may be a
motivational state activated by the conditioned incentive properties of the
partner. This notion can explain all forms of pair bonds, including those
occurring between individuals of the same sex and in promiscuous species.

DOI: 10.1163/156853912X638454 
PMCID: PMC6261535
PMID: 30504964 

