

1782. Behaviour. 2012;149(3-4):407-440. doi: 10.1163/156853912X638454.

Behavioral characteristics of pair bonding in the black tufted-ear marmoset
(Callithrix penicillata).

Ågmo A(1), Smith AS(2), Birnie AK(3), French JA(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway.
(2)Department of Psychology and Program in Neuroscience, Florida State
University, Tallahassee, FL, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Facility, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.

The present study describes how the development of a pair bond modifies social,
sexual and aggressive behavior. Five heterosexual pairs of marmosets, previously 
unknown to each other, were formed at the beginning of the study. At the onset of
pairing, social, sexual, exploratory and aggressive behaviors were recorded for
40 min. The animals were then observed for 20 min, both in the morning and
afternoon for 21 days. The frequency and/or duration of behaviors recorded on Day
1 were compared to those recorded at later observations. The behavior displayed
shortly after pairing should be completely unaffected by the pair bond, while
such a bond should be present at later observations. Thus, it was possible to
determine how the behavior between the pair was modified by the development of a 
pair bond. Social behaviors increased from Day 1 to Days 2-6 and all subsequent
days observed. Conversely, other behaviors, such as open mouth displays (usually 
considered to be an invitation to sexual activity), had a high frequency during
the early part of cohabitation but declined towards the end. Consequently, pair
bonding manifests itself in an increased intensity of social behaviors. It is
suggested that the intrinsically rewarding properties of grooming and perhaps
other social behaviors turn the pair mate into a positive incentive, activating
approach and further interactions when possible. Thus, the pair bond may be a
motivational state activated by the conditioned incentive properties of the
partner. This notion can explain all forms of pair bonds, including those
occurring between individuals of the same sex and in promiscuous species.

DOI: 10.1163/156853912X638454 
PMCID: PMC6261535
PMID: 30504964 


1783. PLoS One. 2011;6(12):e28187. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028187. Epub 2011 Dec 15.

Allelic lineages of the ficolin genes (FCNs) are passed from ancestral to
descendant primates.

Hummelshøj T(1), Nissen J, Munthe-Fog L, Koch C, Bertelsen MF, Garred P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Department of Clinical Immunology,
Rigshospitalet, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen,
Denmark.

The ficolins recognize carbohydrates and acetylated compounds on microorganisms
and dying host cells and are able to activate the lectin pathway of the
complement system. In humans, three ficolin genes have been identified: FCN1,
FCN2 and FCN3, which encode ficolin-1, ficolin-2 and ficolin-3, respectively.
Rodents have only two ficolins designated ficolin-A and ficolin-B that are
closely related to human ficolin-1, while the rodent FCN3 orthologue is a
pseudogene. Ficolin-2 and ficolin-3 have so far only been observed in humans.
Thus, we performed a systematic investigation of the FCN genes in non-human
primates. The exons and intron-exon boundaries of the FCN1-3 genes were sequenced
in the following primate species: chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, rhesus macaque,
cynomolgus macaque, baboon and common marmoset. We found that the exon
organisation of the FCN genes was very similar between all the non-human primates
and the human FCN genes. Several variations in the FCN genes were found in more
than one primate specie suggesting that they were carried from one species to
another including humans. The amino acid diversity of the ficolins among human
and non-human primate species was estimated by calculating the Shannon entropy
revealing that all three proteins are generally highly conserved. Ficolin-1 and
ficolin-2 showed the highest diversity, whereas ficolin-3 was more conserved.
Ficolin-2 and ficolin-3 were present in non-human primate sera with the same
characteristic oligomeric structures as seen in human serum. Taken together all
the FCN genes show the same characteristics in lower and higher primates. The
existence of trans-species polymorphisms suggests that different FCN allelic
lineages may be passed from ancestral to descendant species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028187 
PMCID: PMC3240626
PMID: 22194813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

