

1783. PLoS One. 2011;6(12):e28187. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028187. Epub 2011 Dec 15.

Allelic lineages of the ficolin genes (FCNs) are passed from ancestral to
descendant primates.

Hummelshøj T(1), Nissen J, Munthe-Fog L, Koch C, Bertelsen MF, Garred P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Department of Clinical Immunology,
Rigshospitalet, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen,
Denmark.

The ficolins recognize carbohydrates and acetylated compounds on microorganisms
and dying host cells and are able to activate the lectin pathway of the
complement system. In humans, three ficolin genes have been identified: FCN1,
FCN2 and FCN3, which encode ficolin-1, ficolin-2 and ficolin-3, respectively.
Rodents have only two ficolins designated ficolin-A and ficolin-B that are
closely related to human ficolin-1, while the rodent FCN3 orthologue is a
pseudogene. Ficolin-2 and ficolin-3 have so far only been observed in humans.
Thus, we performed a systematic investigation of the FCN genes in non-human
primates. The exons and intron-exon boundaries of the FCN1-3 genes were sequenced
in the following primate species: chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, rhesus macaque,
cynomolgus macaque, baboon and common marmoset. We found that the exon
organisation of the FCN genes was very similar between all the non-human primates
and the human FCN genes. Several variations in the FCN genes were found in more
than one primate specie suggesting that they were carried from one species to
another including humans. The amino acid diversity of the ficolins among human
and non-human primate species was estimated by calculating the Shannon entropy
revealing that all three proteins are generally highly conserved. Ficolin-1 and
ficolin-2 showed the highest diversity, whereas ficolin-3 was more conserved.
Ficolin-2 and ficolin-3 were present in non-human primate sera with the same
characteristic oligomeric structures as seen in human serum. Taken together all
the FCN genes show the same characteristics in lower and higher primates. The
existence of trans-species polymorphisms suggests that different FCN allelic
lineages may be passed from ancestral to descendant species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028187 
PMCID: PMC3240626
PMID: 22194813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1784. Vis Neurosci. 2011 Nov;28(6):473-84. doi: 10.1017/S0952523811000332.

Foveal cone density shows a rapid postnatal maturation in the marmoset monkey.

Springer AD(1), Troilo D, Possin D, Hendrickson AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, New York Medical College, Valhalla,
New York 10595, USA. springer@nymc.edu

The spatial and temporal pattern of cone packing during marmoset foveal
development was explored to understand the variables involved in creating a high 
acuity area. Retinal ages were between fetal day (Fd) 125 and 6 years. Cone
density was determined in wholemounts using a new hexagonal quantification
method. Wholemounts were labeled immunocytochemically with rod markers to
identify reliably the foveal center. Cones were counted in small windows and
density was expressed as cones × 103/mm2 (K). Two weeks before birth (Fd
125-130), cone density had a flat distribution of 20-30 K across the central
retina encompassing the fovea. Density began to rise at postnatal day 1 (Pd 1)
around, but not in, the foveal center and reached a parafoveal peak of 45-55 K by
Pd 10. Between Pd 10 and 33, there was an inversion such that cone density at the
foveal center rose rapidly, reaching 283 K by 3 months and 600 K by 5.4 months.
Peak foveal density then diminished to 440 K at 6 months and older. Counts done
in sections showed the same pattern of low foveal density up to Pd 1, a rapid
rise from Pd 30 to 90, followed by a small decrease into adulthood. Increasing
foveal cone density was accompanied by 1) a reduction in the amount of Müller
cell cytoplasm surrounding each cone, 2) increased stacking of foveal cone nuclei
into a mound 6-10 deep, and 3) a progressive narrowing of the rod-free zone
surrounding the fovea. Retaining foveal cones in a monolayer precludes final
foveal cone densities above 60 K. However, high foveal adult cone density (300 K)
can be achieved by having cone nuclei stack into columns and without reducing
their nuclear diameter. Marmosets reach adult peak cone density by 3-6 months
postnatal, while macaques and humans take much longer. Early weaning and an
arboreal environment may require rapid postnatal maturation of the marmoset
fovea.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523811000332 
PMCID: PMC4487638
PMID: 22192504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

