

1784. Vis Neurosci. 2011 Nov;28(6):473-84. doi: 10.1017/S0952523811000332.

Foveal cone density shows a rapid postnatal maturation in the marmoset monkey.

Springer AD(1), Troilo D, Possin D, Hendrickson AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, New York Medical College, Valhalla,
New York 10595, USA. springer@nymc.edu

The spatial and temporal pattern of cone packing during marmoset foveal
development was explored to understand the variables involved in creating a high 
acuity area. Retinal ages were between fetal day (Fd) 125 and 6 years. Cone
density was determined in wholemounts using a new hexagonal quantification
method. Wholemounts were labeled immunocytochemically with rod markers to
identify reliably the foveal center. Cones were counted in small windows and
density was expressed as cones × 103/mm2 (K). Two weeks before birth (Fd
125-130), cone density had a flat distribution of 20-30 K across the central
retina encompassing the fovea. Density began to rise at postnatal day 1 (Pd 1)
around, but not in, the foveal center and reached a parafoveal peak of 45-55 K by
Pd 10. Between Pd 10 and 33, there was an inversion such that cone density at the
foveal center rose rapidly, reaching 283 K by 3 months and 600 K by 5.4 months.
Peak foveal density then diminished to 440 K at 6 months and older. Counts done
in sections showed the same pattern of low foveal density up to Pd 1, a rapid
rise from Pd 30 to 90, followed by a small decrease into adulthood. Increasing
foveal cone density was accompanied by 1) a reduction in the amount of Müller
cell cytoplasm surrounding each cone, 2) increased stacking of foveal cone nuclei
into a mound 6-10 deep, and 3) a progressive narrowing of the rod-free zone
surrounding the fovea. Retaining foveal cones in a monolayer precludes final
foveal cone densities above 60 K. However, high foveal adult cone density (300 K)
can be achieved by having cone nuclei stack into columns and without reducing
their nuclear diameter. Marmosets reach adult peak cone density by 3-6 months
postnatal, while macaques and humans take much longer. Early weaning and an
arboreal environment may require rapid postnatal maturation of the marmoset
fovea.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523811000332 
PMCID: PMC4487638
PMID: 22192504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1785. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2012 Feb;295(2):347-54. doi: 10.1002/ar.21519. Epub 2011 Dec 
21.

Localization of papillofoveal bundles in primates.

Hiraoka M(1), Inoue K, Kawano H, Takada M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain Development, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, 2-1-6 Kamikitazawa, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan.
mari9190@true.ocn.ne.jp

Axons in the fovea are precisely organized to ensure accurate vision. We
investigated the morphologic characteristics and localization of nerve bundles in
the optic nerve in primates. Macaque eyes were studied for conventional and
immunostaining, and also marmoset eyes for carbocyanine dye tracing. Locally
confined lesions associated with similar findings to human age-related macular
degeneration (ARMD) were also evaluated. Axons of retinal ganglion cells formed
fasciculi near their origin, and these fasciculi formed bundles thereafter. In
the retinal nerve fiber layer, ascending bundles assembled stratification adding 
proximal bundle underneath successively. Bundles in the arcuate zone displayed a 
characteristic fine, parallel arrangement, whereas those in the outside zone
intermingled with undefined reticular bundles as they approached the optic nerve 
head. Macular bundles remained in groups and were distributed in the temporal
wedge of the optic nerve head. Orthograde and retrograde tracing revealed that
these bundles formed confined groups of various sizes and, ultimately, a specific
group of small bundles located in the innermost row, near the central vessels. In
addition, these bundles showed evidence of focal degenerative deterioration in
eyes with ARMD. Papillomacular bundles have a characteristic alignment and
configuration. Foveal bundles that compose the confined group closest to the
optic trunk (which we term papillofoveal bundles) appear to have functional
significance with respect to the isolated lesions that accompany central vision
loss or preservation.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21519 
PMID: 22190466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

