

1785. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2012 Feb;295(2):347-54. doi: 10.1002/ar.21519. Epub 2011 Dec 
21.

Localization of papillofoveal bundles in primates.

Hiraoka M(1), Inoue K, Kawano H, Takada M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain Development, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, 2-1-6 Kamikitazawa, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan.
mari9190@true.ocn.ne.jp

Axons in the fovea are precisely organized to ensure accurate vision. We
investigated the morphologic characteristics and localization of nerve bundles in
the optic nerve in primates. Macaque eyes were studied for conventional and
immunostaining, and also marmoset eyes for carbocyanine dye tracing. Locally
confined lesions associated with similar findings to human age-related macular
degeneration (ARMD) were also evaluated. Axons of retinal ganglion cells formed
fasciculi near their origin, and these fasciculi formed bundles thereafter. In
the retinal nerve fiber layer, ascending bundles assembled stratification adding 
proximal bundle underneath successively. Bundles in the arcuate zone displayed a 
characteristic fine, parallel arrangement, whereas those in the outside zone
intermingled with undefined reticular bundles as they approached the optic nerve 
head. Macular bundles remained in groups and were distributed in the temporal
wedge of the optic nerve head. Orthograde and retrograde tracing revealed that
these bundles formed confined groups of various sizes and, ultimately, a specific
group of small bundles located in the innermost row, near the central vessels. In
addition, these bundles showed evidence of focal degenerative deterioration in
eyes with ARMD. Papillomacular bundles have a characteristic alignment and
configuration. Foveal bundles that compose the confined group closest to the
optic trunk (which we term papillofoveal bundles) appear to have functional
significance with respect to the isolated lesions that accompany central vision
loss or preservation.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21519 
PMID: 22190466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1786. Neuropharmacology. 2012 Mar;62(4):1700-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2011.11.016. 
Epub 2011 Dec 8.

Neuroprotective effects of riluzole in early phase Parkinson's disease on
clinically relevant parameters in the marmoset MPTP model.

Verhave PS(1), Jongsma MJ, Van Den Berg RM, Vanwersch RA, Smit AB, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)BU CBRN Protection, TNO Defence, Security and Safety, Lange Kleiweg 137, PO
Box 45, 2280 AA Rijswijk, The Netherlands. nellekeverhave@gmail.com

The present study evaluates neuroprotection in a marmoset MPTP
(1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) model representing early Parkinson's
disease (PD). The anti-glutamatergic compound riluzole is used as a model
compound for neuroprotection. The compound is one of the few protective compounds
used in the clinic for a neurodegenerative disorder. Marmoset monkeys were
randomized into three groups of six: 1) an MPTP group receiving a total MPTP dose
of 7 mg/kg (4 injections over two weeks, s.c.) 2) a riluzole group receiving
besides MPTP, a twice daily dose of riluzole (10 mg/kg, p.o.), starting one week 
before MPTP and continuing for one week after the final MPTP injection and 3) a
control group receiving saline instead of MPTP and riluzole. The marmosets'
Parkinsonian symptoms were scored daily and their activity level, hand-eye
coordination, jumping behavior, axial turning and night sleep parameters were
tested and recorded weekly. At three weeks following the last MPTP challenge,
brains were dissected and dopamine levels in the striatum and the tyrosine
hydroxylase (TH) expressing dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN)
were compared. MPTP affected all behavioral parameters and sleep architecture and
induced a relatively mild (50%) decline of DA neurons in the substantia nigra
(SN). Riluzole relieved the Parkinsonian signs, and improved the hand-eye
coordination as well as turning ability. Moreover, riluzole prevented the impact 
of MPTP on sleep architecture and rapid eye movement behavioral disorder (RBD).
Riluzole also increased the number of surviving DA neurons in MPTP-treated
marmosets to 75%. However, riluzole did not prevent the MPTP-induced impairments 
on locomotor activity and jumping activity. In conclusion, reduction of
excitotoxicity by riluzole appeared to be effective in reducing progressive
neurodegeneration and relieved several clinically relevant PD symptoms in an
animal model representing the early phase of PD.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2011.11.016 
PMID: 22178201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

