

1786. Neuropharmacology. 2012 Mar;62(4):1700-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2011.11.016. 
Epub 2011 Dec 8.

Neuroprotective effects of riluzole in early phase Parkinson's disease on
clinically relevant parameters in the marmoset MPTP model.

Verhave PS(1), Jongsma MJ, Van Den Berg RM, Vanwersch RA, Smit AB, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)BU CBRN Protection, TNO Defence, Security and Safety, Lange Kleiweg 137, PO
Box 45, 2280 AA Rijswijk, The Netherlands. nellekeverhave@gmail.com

The present study evaluates neuroprotection in a marmoset MPTP
(1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) model representing early Parkinson's
disease (PD). The anti-glutamatergic compound riluzole is used as a model
compound for neuroprotection. The compound is one of the few protective compounds
used in the clinic for a neurodegenerative disorder. Marmoset monkeys were
randomized into three groups of six: 1) an MPTP group receiving a total MPTP dose
of 7 mg/kg (4 injections over two weeks, s.c.) 2) a riluzole group receiving
besides MPTP, a twice daily dose of riluzole (10 mg/kg, p.o.), starting one week 
before MPTP and continuing for one week after the final MPTP injection and 3) a
control group receiving saline instead of MPTP and riluzole. The marmosets'
Parkinsonian symptoms were scored daily and their activity level, hand-eye
coordination, jumping behavior, axial turning and night sleep parameters were
tested and recorded weekly. At three weeks following the last MPTP challenge,
brains were dissected and dopamine levels in the striatum and the tyrosine
hydroxylase (TH) expressing dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN)
were compared. MPTP affected all behavioral parameters and sleep architecture and
induced a relatively mild (50%) decline of DA neurons in the substantia nigra
(SN). Riluzole relieved the Parkinsonian signs, and improved the hand-eye
coordination as well as turning ability. Moreover, riluzole prevented the impact 
of MPTP on sleep architecture and rapid eye movement behavioral disorder (RBD).
Riluzole also increased the number of surviving DA neurons in MPTP-treated
marmosets to 75%. However, riluzole did not prevent the MPTP-induced impairments 
on locomotor activity and jumping activity. In conclusion, reduction of
excitotoxicity by riluzole appeared to be effective in reducing progressive
neurodegeneration and relieved several clinically relevant PD symptoms in an
animal model representing the early phase of PD.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2011.11.016 
PMID: 22178201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1787. J Virol. 2012 Feb;86(4):2109-20. doi: 10.1128/JVI.06190-11. Epub 2011 Dec 7.

Development of a novel nonhuman primate model for Rift Valley fever.

Smith DR(1), Bird BH, Lewis B, Johnston SC, McCarthy S, Keeney A, Botto M,
Donnelly G, Shamblin J, Albariño CG, Nichol ST, Hensley LE.

Author information: 
(1)US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, Fort Detrick,
Maryland, USA. darci.smith1@us.army.mil

Rift Valley fever (RVF) virus (RVFV) can cause severe human disease characterized
by either acute-onset hepatitis, delayed-onset encephalitis, retinitis and
blindness, or a hemorrhagic syndrome. The existing nonhuman primate (NHP) model
for RVF utilizes an intravenous (i.v.) exposure route in rhesus macaques (Macaca 
mulatta). Severe disease in these animals is infrequent, and large cohorts are
needed to observe significant morbidity and mortality. To overcome these
drawbacks, we evaluated the infectivity and pathogenicity of RVFV in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) by i.v., subcutaneous (s.c.), and intranasal
exposure routes to more closely mimic natural exposure. Marmosets were more
susceptible to RVFV than rhesus macaques and experienced higher rates of
morbidity, mortality, and viremia and marked aberrations in hematological and
chemistry values. An overwhelming infection of hepatocytes was a major
consequence of infection of marmosets by the i.v. and s.c. exposure routes.
Additionally, these animals displayed signs of hemorrhagic manifestations and
neurological impairment. Based on our results, the common marmoset model more
closely resembles severe human RVF disease and is therefore an ideal model for
the evaluation of potential vaccines and therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.06190-11 
PMCID: PMC3302397
PMID: 22156530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

