

1787. J Virol. 2012 Feb;86(4):2109-20. doi: 10.1128/JVI.06190-11. Epub 2011 Dec 7.

Development of a novel nonhuman primate model for Rift Valley fever.

Smith DR(1), Bird BH, Lewis B, Johnston SC, McCarthy S, Keeney A, Botto M,
Donnelly G, Shamblin J, Albari√±o CG, Nichol ST, Hensley LE.

Author information: 
(1)US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, Fort Detrick,
Maryland, USA. darci.smith1@us.army.mil

Rift Valley fever (RVF) virus (RVFV) can cause severe human disease characterized
by either acute-onset hepatitis, delayed-onset encephalitis, retinitis and
blindness, or a hemorrhagic syndrome. The existing nonhuman primate (NHP) model
for RVF utilizes an intravenous (i.v.) exposure route in rhesus macaques (Macaca 
mulatta). Severe disease in these animals is infrequent, and large cohorts are
needed to observe significant morbidity and mortality. To overcome these
drawbacks, we evaluated the infectivity and pathogenicity of RVFV in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) by i.v., subcutaneous (s.c.), and intranasal
exposure routes to more closely mimic natural exposure. Marmosets were more
susceptible to RVFV than rhesus macaques and experienced higher rates of
morbidity, mortality, and viremia and marked aberrations in hematological and
chemistry values. An overwhelming infection of hepatocytes was a major
consequence of infection of marmosets by the i.v. and s.c. exposure routes.
Additionally, these animals displayed signs of hemorrhagic manifestations and
neurological impairment. Based on our results, the common marmoset model more
closely resembles severe human RVF disease and is therefore an ideal model for
the evaluation of potential vaccines and therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.06190-11 
PMCID: PMC3302397
PMID: 22156530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1788. Vet Pathol. 2012 Sep;49(5):839-45. doi: 10.1177/0300985811427151. Epub 2011 Dec
8.

Spontaneous glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Isobe K(1), Adachi K, Hayashi S, Ito T, Miyoshi A, Kato A, Suzuki M.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment Department, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 1-135 Komakado,
Gotemba, Shizuoka 412-8513, Japan. isobe.kaori@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Spontaneous progressive nephropathy dominated by glomerular lesions in common
marmosets has been reported. However, the histopathologic characteristics,
including the relationship between glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions,
have not been described in detail. In the present study, the authors examined the
histopathologic characteristics of the background renal lesions in common
marmosets (3 males and 9 females, 3 to 8 years old). The severity of glomerular
lesions was graded into 3 classes: grade I, no alteration; grade II, hilar/focal 
increase of mesangial matrix; grade III, global/diffuse increase of mesangial
matrix. Tubulointerstitial lesions (tubular regeneration and hyperplasia and
interstitial inflammation and fibrosis) were scored according to the area of each
lesion. The renal lesions were characterized by enlargement of glomeruli,
expanded mesangial area with increase of periodic acid-Schiff reaction-positive
matrix, tubular regeneration and hyperplasia, and interstitial inflammation and
fibrosis. Glomerular lesions progressed with increasing mesangial matrix and
aging. Additionally, the tubulointerstitial lesions became exacerbated with
progressing glomerular lesions. Tubular hyperplasia was divided into 4 types
according to the structure of the cell layer (simple or stratified-like), the
area of increased lining cells (partial or entire), cytoplasmic staining
(eosinophilic or basophilic), brush border and thickness of basement membrane,
and the activity of cell proliferation. In conclusion, the background renal
lesions in common marmosets were characterized by glomerular lesions with
increase of mesangial matrix, which progressed with aging, and secondary
tubulointerstitial lesions, including tubular hyperplasia. Those lesions were
thus diagnosed as progressive glomerulonephropathy in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985811427151 
PMID: 22156228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

