

1789. PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e27706. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027706. Epub 2011 Nov 29.

Human hepatocyte growth factor promotes functional recovery in primates after
spinal cord injury.

Kitamura K(1), Fujiyoshi K, Yamane J, Toyota F, Hikishima K, Nomura T, Funakoshi 
H, Nakamura T, Aoki M, Toyama Y, Okano H, Nakamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Many therapeutic interventions for spinal cord injury (SCI) using neurotrophic
factors have focused on reducing the area damaged by secondary, post-injury
degeneration, to promote functional recovery. Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF),
which is a potent mitogen for mature hepatocytes and a mediator of the
inflammatory responses to tissue injury, was recently highlighted as a potent
neurotrophic factor in the central nervous system. We previously reported that
introducing exogenous HGF into the injured rodent spinal cord using a herpes
simplex virus-1 vector significantly reduces the area of damaged tissue and
promotes functional recovery. However, that study did not examine the therapeutic
effects of administering HGF after injury, which is the most critical issue for
clinical application. To translate this strategy to human treatment, we induced a
contusive cervical SCI in the common marmoset, a primate, and then administered
recombinant human HGF (rhHGF) intrathecally. Motor function was assessed using an
original open field scoring system focusing on manual function, including
reach-and-grasp performance and hand placement in walking. The intrathecal rhHGF 
preserved the corticospinal fibers and myelinated areas, thereby promoting
functional recovery. In vivo magnetic resonance imaging showed significant
preservation of the intact spinal cord parenchyma. rhHGF-treatment did not give
rise to an abnormal outgrowth of calcitonin gene related peptide positive fibers 
compared to the control group, indicating that this treatment did not induce or
exacerbate allodynia. This is the first study to report the efficacy of rhHGF for
treating SCI in non-human primates. In addition, this is the first presentation
of a novel scale for assessing neurological motor performance in non-human
primates after contusive cervical SCI.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0027706 
PMCID: PMC3226561
PMID: 22140459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1790. Dev Psychobiol. 2012 Nov;54(7):700-5. doi: 10.1002/dev.20619. Epub 2011 Nov 29.

Effects of rearing conditions on early visual development in common marmosets.

Izumi A(1), Tsuchida J, Yamaguchi C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral and Brain Sciences, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto
University, Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan. izumi@pri.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Early development of visual behavior was examined in hand-reared (HR) and
parentally reared (PR) common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). On the day of
birth, most of the marmosets exhibited sensitivity to light and sound: they
closed their eyes in response to light and oriented to the sound sources. The
behavior of tracking moving visual stimuli was exhibited at around 10 days
postnatally in PR marmosets, but the onset of this behavior was delayed to the
age of 16 days in HR marmosets. The delay occurred possibly because of the poor
input of optical flow under the HR environment. The onset age of head-cocking was
about 2 weeks in both groups of marmosets, and the HR marmosets began
head-cocking and visual tracking simultaneously. Both groups of marmosets
exhibited sensitivity to optical approach at the age of around 30 days: the age
to wean and increase independent locomotion. The results suggested that the onset
of motion perception preceded detailed shape and depth perception in marmosets,
and the developmental sequence in marmosets was similar to those in humans and
macaque monkeys. Marmosets appear to be useful animal models to examine
environmental effects on early visual development.

Copyright Â© 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.20619 
PMID: 22127827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

