

1791. Int J Exp Pathol. 2011 Dec;92(6):428-35. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2011.00791.x.

Development of an acute model of inhalational melioidosis in the common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Dean RE, Salguero FJ, Taylor C, Pearce PC, Simpson AJ, Lever MS.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK. mnelson@dstl.gov.uk

Erratum in
    Int J Exp Pathol. 2013 Feb;94(1):74.

Studies of inhalational melioidosis were undertaken in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Following exposure to an inhaled challenge with aerosolized
Burkholderia pseudomallei, lethal infection was observed in marmosets challenged 
with doses below 10 cfu; a precise LD(50) determination was not possible. The
model was further characterized using a target challenge dose of approximately
10(2) cfu. A separate pathogenesis time-course experiment was also conducted. All
animals succumbed, between 27 and 78 h postchallenge. The challenge dose received
and the time to the humane endpoint (1 °C below normal body temperature
postfever) were correlated. The first indicator of disease was an increased core 
body temperature (T(c) ), at 22 h postchallenge. This coincided with bacteraemia 
and bacterial dissemination. Overt clinical signs were first observed 3-5 h
later. A sharp decrease (typically within 3-6 h) in the T(c) was observed prior
to humanely culling the animals in the lethality study. Pathology was noted in
the lung, liver and spleen. Disease progression in the common marmoset appears to
be consistent with human infection in terms of bacterial spread, pathology and
physiology. The common marmoset can therefore be considered a suitable animal
model for further studies of inhalational melioidosis.

© 2011 The Authors. International Journal of Experimental Pathology © 2011
International Journal of Experimental Pathology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2011.00791.x 
PMCID: PMC3248079
PMID: 22122591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1792. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):465-8. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr336. Epub 2011 Nov 23.

The (not necessarily) convoluted role of basal radial glia in cortical
neurogenesis.

Hevner RF(1), Haydar TF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Brain Research, Seattle Children's Research Institute, 
Seattle, WA 98101, USA. rhevner@uw.edu

Comment on
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):482-92.
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):469-81.

Recent advances in cell labeling and imaging techniques have dramatically
expanded our knowledge of the neural precursor cells responsible for
corticogenesis. In particular, radial glial cells are now known to generate
several classes of restricted progenitors and neurons. While radial glial cells
in the ventricular zone have received the most attention, it has become
increasingly clear that a distinct subclass of radial glial cells situated in the
subventricular zone (SVZ) and intermediate zone also play an important role in
corticogenesis. These delaminated radial glial cells, which lack an apical
process attached to the ventricular surface but maintain a basal process, were
discovered over 3 decades ago. Recently, they have been further characterized as 
cortical progenitors and renamed outer, intermediate, or basal radial glia (bRG).
Some of these studies indicated that bRG abundance in the outer SVZ (oSVZ) is
correlated with enhanced gyrencephaly, particularly in primates and especially
human, and therefore suggested that bRG may be responsible for the emergence and 
evolution of cerebral convolutions. In this issue of Cerebral Cortex, 2 papers
provide new information about bRG in common marmosets, a near-lissencephalic
primate, and in agouti, a near-gyrencephalic rodent (Garcia-Moreno et al. 2011;
Kelava et al. 2011). They demonstrate that bRG are abundant and proliferate in
inner as well as oSVZ, in both species. Together, these findings indicate that
bRG and the oSVZ might not be correlated with gyrification or phylogeny. Rather, 
differential regulation of bRG and other progenitor types may enhance the
adaptability and diversity of cortical morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr336 
PMCID: PMC3256413
PMID: 22116731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

