

1792. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):465-8. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr336. Epub 2011 Nov 23.

The (not necessarily) convoluted role of basal radial glia in cortical
neurogenesis.

Hevner RF(1), Haydar TF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Brain Research, Seattle Children's Research Institute, 
Seattle, WA 98101, USA. rhevner@uw.edu

Comment on
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):482-92.
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):469-81.

Recent advances in cell labeling and imaging techniques have dramatically
expanded our knowledge of the neural precursor cells responsible for
corticogenesis. In particular, radial glial cells are now known to generate
several classes of restricted progenitors and neurons. While radial glial cells
in the ventricular zone have received the most attention, it has become
increasingly clear that a distinct subclass of radial glial cells situated in the
subventricular zone (SVZ) and intermediate zone also play an important role in
corticogenesis. These delaminated radial glial cells, which lack an apical
process attached to the ventricular surface but maintain a basal process, were
discovered over 3 decades ago. Recently, they have been further characterized as 
cortical progenitors and renamed outer, intermediate, or basal radial glia (bRG).
Some of these studies indicated that bRG abundance in the outer SVZ (oSVZ) is
correlated with enhanced gyrencephaly, particularly in primates and especially
human, and therefore suggested that bRG may be responsible for the emergence and 
evolution of cerebral convolutions. In this issue of Cerebral Cortex, 2 papers
provide new information about bRG in common marmosets, a near-lissencephalic
primate, and in agouti, a near-gyrencephalic rodent (Garcia-Moreno et al. 2011;
Kelava et al. 2011). They demonstrate that bRG are abundant and proliferate in
inner as well as oSVZ, in both species. Together, these findings indicate that
bRG and the oSVZ might not be correlated with gyrification or phylogeny. Rather, 
differential regulation of bRG and other progenitor types may enhance the
adaptability and diversity of cortical morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr336 
PMCID: PMC3256413
PMID: 22116731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1793. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):469-81. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr301. Epub 2011 Nov
23.

Abundant occurrence of basal radial glia in the subventricular zone of embryonic 
neocortex of a lissencephalic primate, the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Kelava I(1), Reillo I, Murayama AY, Kalinka AT, Stenzel D, Tomancak P, Matsuzaki 
F, Lebrand C, Sasaki E, Schwamborn JC, Okano H, Huttner WB, Borrell V.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, D-01307 Dresden, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):465-8.

Subventricular zone (SVZ) progenitors are a hallmark of the developing neocortex.
Recent studies described a novel type of SVZ progenitor that retains a basal
process at mitosis, sustains expression of radial glial markers, and is capable
of self-renewal. These progenitors, referred to here as basal radial glia (bRG), 
occur at high relative abundance in the SVZ of gyrencephalic primates (human) and
nonprimates (ferret) but not lissencephalic rodents (mouse). Here, we analyzed
the occurrence of bRG cells in the embryonic neocortex of the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus, a near-lissencephalic primate. bRG cells, expressing Pax6,
Sox2 (but not Tbr2), glutamate aspartate transporter, and glial fibrillary acidic
protein and retaining a basal process at mitosis, occur at similar relative
abundance in the marmoset SVZ as in human and ferret. The proportion of
progenitors in M-phase was lower in embryonic marmoset than developing ferret
neocortex, raising the possibility of a longer cell cycle. Fitting the
gyrification indices of 26 anthropoid species to an evolutionary model suggested 
that the marmoset evolved from a gyrencephalic ancestor. Our results suggest that
a high relative abundance of bRG cells may be necessary, but is not sufficient,
for gyrencephaly and that the marmoset's lissencephaly evolved secondarily by
changing progenitor parameters other than progenitor type.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr301 
PMCID: PMC3256412
PMID: 22114084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

