

1794. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):482-92. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr312. Epub 2011 Nov
23.

Compartmentalization of cerebral cortical germinal zones in a lissencephalic
primate and gyrencephalic rodent.

García-Moreno F(1), Vasistha NA, Trevia N, Bourne JA, Molnár Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX1 3QX, UK.

Comment in
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):465-8.

Previous studies of macaque and human cortices identified cytoarchitectonically
distinct germinal zones; the ventricular zone inner subventricular zone (ISVZ),
and outer subventricular zone (OSVZ). To date, the OSVZ has only been described
in gyrencephalic brains, separated from the ISVZ by an inner fiber layer and
considered a milestone that triggered increased neocortical neurogenesis.
However, this observation has only been assessed in a handful of species without 
the identification of the different progenitor populations. We examined the
Amazonian rodent agouti (Dasyprocta agouti) and the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) to further understand relationships among progenitor
compartmentalization, proportions of various cortical progenitors, and degree of 
cortical folding. We identified a similar cytoarchitectonic distinction between
the OSVZ and ISVZ at midgestation in both species. In the marmoset, we quantified
the ventricular and abventricular divisions and observed similar proportions as
previously described for the human and ferret brains. The proportions of radial
glia, intermediate progenitors, and outer radial glial cell (oRG) populations
were similar in midgestation lissencephalic marmoset as in gyrencephalic human or
ferret. Our findings suggest that cytoarchitectonic subdivisions of SVZ are an
evolutionary trend and not a primate specific feature, and a large population of 
oRG can be seen regardless of cortical folding.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr312 
PMID: 22114081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1795. J Comp Psychol. 2012 May;126(2):129-38. doi: 10.1037/a0026025. Epub 2011 Nov 21.

Even simple forms of social learning rely on intention attribution in marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Burkart J(1), Kupferberg A, Glasauer S, van Schaik C.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, Zurich, Switzerland.
judith.burkart@aim.uzh.ch

Intention attribution guides the cognitively most demanding forms of social
learning, such as imitation, thereby scaffolding cumulative cultural evolution.
However, it is not thought to be necessary for more basic forms of social
learning. Here we present evidence that in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) 
even most basic forms of social learning such as enhancement depend on intention 
attribution. Marmosets perceived the behavior of a conspecific and a
conspecific-like robot, but not that of a moving black box, as goal directed.
Their subsequent choice behavior was shaped by social facilitation and stimulus
enhancement, that is, by very simple forms of social learning, but only when
exposed to the conspecific and robot, which they previously had perceived as
intentional agents. We discuss the implications of this finding for contemporary 
debates about social learning, including emulation learning and ghost control
studies, the necessity of goal-directed copying for cumulative cultural
evolution, and the limits of current classification systems of social learning
for the evolution of social and asocial learning.

DOI: 10.1037/a0026025 
PMID: 22103235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

