

1795. J Comp Psychol. 2012 May;126(2):129-38. doi: 10.1037/a0026025. Epub 2011 Nov 21.

Even simple forms of social learning rely on intention attribution in marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Burkart J(1), Kupferberg A, Glasauer S, van Schaik C.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, Zurich, Switzerland.
judith.burkart@aim.uzh.ch

Intention attribution guides the cognitively most demanding forms of social
learning, such as imitation, thereby scaffolding cumulative cultural evolution.
However, it is not thought to be necessary for more basic forms of social
learning. Here we present evidence that in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) 
even most basic forms of social learning such as enhancement depend on intention 
attribution. Marmosets perceived the behavior of a conspecific and a
conspecific-like robot, but not that of a moving black box, as goal directed.
Their subsequent choice behavior was shaped by social facilitation and stimulus
enhancement, that is, by very simple forms of social learning, but only when
exposed to the conspecific and robot, which they previously had perceived as
intentional agents. We discuss the implications of this finding for contemporary 
debates about social learning, including emulation learning and ghost control
studies, the necessity of goal-directed copying for cumulative cultural
evolution, and the limits of current classification systems of social learning
for the evolution of social and asocial learning.

DOI: 10.1037/a0026025 
PMID: 22103235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1796. Neurosci Res. 2012 Mar;72(3):275-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2011.11.001. Epub 2011 
Nov 12.

Preparation of acute living hippocampal slice from common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) for synaptic function analysis.

Oh-Nishi A(1), Obayashi S, Minamimoto T, Nagai Y, Hori Y, Suhara T.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neuroimaging Program, Molecular Imaging Center, National Institute
of Radiological Sciences, Chiba 263-8555, Japan. oh-nishi@nirs.go.jp

We described the preparation of acute living slices from the hippocampus of the
neonatal common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Slices from a temporal lobe
section were prepared quickly using a rotary slicer. By this method, we
successfully recorded field potentials, namely, pre-synaptic fiber volley and
field excitatory post-synaptic potentials, from the hippocampal CA1 region with
conventional electrophysiological techniques, and analyzed the indicators of
synaptic function such as input-output curve. This study thus presents an
efficient preparation method for acute living hippocampal slice from which
synaptic function of the hippocampus in non-human primate can be analyzed.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2011.11.001 
PMID: 22101369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

