

1804. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Oct;22(10):2313-21. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr308. Epub 2011 Nov 
7.

Differential expression patterns of striate cortex-enriched genes among Old
World, New World, and prosimian primates.

Takahata T(1), Shukla R, Yamamori T, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37240, USA.
toru.takahata@vanderbilt.edu

A group of 5 genes, OCC1, testican-1, testican-2, 5-HT1B, and 5-HT2A, are
selectively expressed in layer 4 (4C of Brodmann) of striate cortex (visual area 
V1) of both Old World macaques and New World marmoset monkeys. The expression of 
these genes is activity dependent, as expression is reduced after blocking
retinal activity. Surprisingly, the pronounced expression pattern has not been
found in rodents or carnivores. Thus, these genes may be highly expressed in V1
of some but perhaps not all primates. Here, we compared the gene expression in
members of 3 major branches of primate evolution: prosimians, New World monkeys, 
and Old World monkeys. Although the expression pattern of 5-HT1B was well
conserved, those of the other genes varied from the least distinct in prosimian
galagos to successively more in New World owl monkeys, marmosets, squirrel
monkeys, and Old World macaque monkeys. In owl monkeys, the expression of 5-HT2A 
was significantly reduced by monocular tetrodotoxin injection, while those of
OCC1 and 5-HT1B were not. Thus, we propose that early primates had low levels of 
expression and higher levels emerged with anthropoid primates and became further 
enhanced in the Old World catarrhine monkeys that are more closely related to
humans.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr308 
PMCID: PMC3432237
PMID: 22065864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1805. Am J Primatol. 2012 Jan 1;74(1):8-11. doi: 10.1002/ajp.21005. Epub 2011 Nov 3.

Detection of anti-Leptospira antibodies in captive nonhuman primates from
Salvador, Brazil.

Pinna MH, Martins G, Pinheiro AC, Almeida DS, Oriá AP, Lilenbaum W.

Leptospirosis is a widely distributed zoonosis that affects several species of
domestic and wild animals. Under captive conditions, Leptospirosis is a potential
problem because the physical conditions in most zoos and research centers cannot 
prevent the captive animals from being exposed to rodents, raccoons, opossums,
and other local wildlife that are known carriers. Yet, despite the potential
risk, animals that are destined for reintroduction into the wild are not
routinely tested for anti-Leptospira antibodies before their release. The purpose
of this study was to determine the occurrence of anti-Leptospira antibodies in
captive New World monkeys that were housed in the Wild Animals Screening Center
in Salvador, Brazil. Blood samples were collected from 44 monkeys (28 Callithrix 
jacchus, eight Callithrix pennicilata, and eight Cebus sp.). The animals were
screened for antibodies with the microscopic agglutination test. Twenty-five
(56.8%) primates were seroreactive, with Icterohaemorrhagiae being the most
frequent serogroup. None of the monkeys, however, presented clinical signs of
leptospirosis. Thus, seroreactivity with low titers in asymptomatic animals, as
observed in this study, suggests exposure to the agent. The unexpected
predominance of the serogroup Icterohaemorrhagiae further suggests that exposure 
to this serogroup occurred in captivity. Therefore, the dangerous possibility
cannot be ignored that reintroduced monkeys will carry the leptospiral serovars
into wild populations. In conclusion, primates exposed to urban serovars before
their release from captivity represent a potentially significant health risk to
wild populations.

© 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.21005 
PMID: 22052355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

