

1805. Am J Primatol. 2012 Jan 1;74(1):8-11. doi: 10.1002/ajp.21005. Epub 2011 Nov 3.

Detection of anti-Leptospira antibodies in captive nonhuman primates from
Salvador, Brazil.

Pinna MH, Martins G, Pinheiro AC, Almeida DS, Oriá AP, Lilenbaum W.

Leptospirosis is a widely distributed zoonosis that affects several species of
domestic and wild animals. Under captive conditions, Leptospirosis is a potential
problem because the physical conditions in most zoos and research centers cannot 
prevent the captive animals from being exposed to rodents, raccoons, opossums,
and other local wildlife that are known carriers. Yet, despite the potential
risk, animals that are destined for reintroduction into the wild are not
routinely tested for anti-Leptospira antibodies before their release. The purpose
of this study was to determine the occurrence of anti-Leptospira antibodies in
captive New World monkeys that were housed in the Wild Animals Screening Center
in Salvador, Brazil. Blood samples were collected from 44 monkeys (28 Callithrix 
jacchus, eight Callithrix pennicilata, and eight Cebus sp.). The animals were
screened for antibodies with the microscopic agglutination test. Twenty-five
(56.8%) primates were seroreactive, with Icterohaemorrhagiae being the most
frequent serogroup. None of the monkeys, however, presented clinical signs of
leptospirosis. Thus, seroreactivity with low titers in asymptomatic animals, as
observed in this study, suggests exposure to the agent. The unexpected
predominance of the serogroup Icterohaemorrhagiae further suggests that exposure 
to this serogroup occurred in captivity. Therefore, the dangerous possibility
cannot be ignored that reintroduced monkeys will carry the leptospiral serovars
into wild populations. In conclusion, primates exposed to urban serovars before
their release from captivity represent a potentially significant health risk to
wild populations.

© 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.21005 
PMID: 22052355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1806. Lab Anim. 2012 Jan;46(1):71-6. doi: 10.1258/la.2011.011092. Epub 2011 Nov 2.

An alternative method of endotracheal intubation of common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Thomas AA(1), Leach MC, Flecknell PA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and Comparative Biology Centre, Medical School,
Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.
aurelie.thomas@ncl.ac.uk

Endotracheal intubation was carried out in 11 common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). A commercially available tilting stand and a Miller laryngoscope blade 
were used to visualize the larynx. Anaesthesia was induced with alphaxalone (10.6
± 1.6 mg/kg intramuscularly, followed by 3.2 ± 1.2 mg/kg intravenously). The
diameter of the proximal trachea easily fitted an endotracheal tube made from
readily available material (a 12 G 'over the needle' catheter). Once the tip of
the endotracheal tube was at the level of the vocal folds, the tube had to be
gently rotated through a 180° angle in order to pass through the larynx into the 
trachea. Assessment of the dimensions of the larynx and trachea, and comparison
with external anatomical features of the animals (n = 10) showed that the length 
of the trachea could be predicted by multiplying the craniosacral length of the
marmoset by a factor of 0.42.

DOI: 10.1258/la.2011.011092 
PMID: 22048957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

