

1806. Lab Anim. 2012 Jan;46(1):71-6. doi: 10.1258/la.2011.011092. Epub 2011 Nov 2.

An alternative method of endotracheal intubation of common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Thomas AA(1), Leach MC, Flecknell PA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and Comparative Biology Centre, Medical School,
Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.
aurelie.thomas@ncl.ac.uk

Endotracheal intubation was carried out in 11 common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). A commercially available tilting stand and a Miller laryngoscope blade 
were used to visualize the larynx. Anaesthesia was induced with alphaxalone (10.6
± 1.6 mg/kg intramuscularly, followed by 3.2 ± 1.2 mg/kg intravenously). The
diameter of the proximal trachea easily fitted an endotracheal tube made from
readily available material (a 12 G 'over the needle' catheter). Once the tip of
the endotracheal tube was at the level of the vocal folds, the tube had to be
gently rotated through a 180° angle in order to pass through the larynx into the 
trachea. Assessment of the dimensions of the larynx and trachea, and comparison
with external anatomical features of the animals (n = 10) showed that the length 
of the trachea could be predicted by multiplying the craniosacral length of the
marmoset by a factor of 0.42.

DOI: 10.1258/la.2011.011092 
PMID: 22048957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1807. Hum Vaccin. 2011 Nov;7(11):1215-24. doi: 10.4161/hv.7.11.17944. Epub 2011 Nov 1.

Recombinant vaccines against leptospirosis.

Dellagostin OA(1), Grassmann AA, Hartwig DD, Félix SR, da Silva ÉF, McBride AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Unidade de Biotecnologia, Centro de Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, Salvador, BA,
Brazil. odir@ufpel.edu.br

Leptospirosis is an important neglected infectious disease that occurs in urban
environments, as well as in rural regions worldwide. Rodents, the principal
reservoir hosts of pathogenic Leptospira spp., and other infected animals shed
the bacteria in their urine. During occupational or even recreational activities,
humans that come into direct contact with infected animals or with a contaminated
environment, particularly water, are at risk of infection. Prevention of urban
leptospirosis is largely dependent on sanitation measures that are often
difficult to implement, especially in developing countries. Vaccination with
inactivated whole-cell preparations (bacterins) has limited efficacy due to the
wide antigenic variation of the pathogen. Intensive efforts towards developing
improved recombinant vaccines are ongoing. During the last decade, many reports
on the evaluation of recombinant vaccines have been published. Partial success
has been obtained with some surface-exposed protein antigens. The combination of 
protective antigens and new adjuvants or delivery systems may result in the
much-needed effective vaccine.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.7.11.17944 
PMID: 22048111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

