

1809. Brain Res. 2011 Nov 24;1425:47-61. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2011.09.020. Epub 2011
Sep 17.

Comparative distribution of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) 
in the hypothalamus of the capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) and the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Cavalcante JC(1), Cândido PL, Sita LV, do Nascimento ES Jr, Cavalcante Jde S, de 
Oliveira Costa MS, Bittencourt JC, Elias CF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Department of Morphology, Center of Biosciences,
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN 59072-970, Brazil.
judney@cb.ufrn.br

Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is widely distributed in the
brain of many species. In the hypothalamus, CART neurotransmission has been
implicated in diverse functions including energy balance, stress response, and
temperature and endocrine regulation. Although some studies have been performed
in primates, very little is known about the distribution of CART neurons in New
World monkeys. New World monkeys are good models for systems neuroscience, as
some species have evolved several behavioral and anatomical characteristics
shared with humans, including diurnal and social habits, intense maternal care,
complex manipulative abilities and well-developed frontal cortices. In the
present study, we assessed the distribution of CART mRNA and peptide in the
hypothalamus of the capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) and the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). We found that the distribution of hypothalamic CART neurons
in these monkeys is similar to what has been described for rodents and humans,
but some relevant differences were noticed. Only in capuchin monkeys CART neurons
were observed in the suprachiasmatic and the intercalatus nuclei, whereas only in
marmoset CART neurons were observed in the dorsal anterior nucleus. We also found
that the only in marmoset displayed CART neurons in the periventricular preoptic 
nucleus and in an area seemingly comprising the premammillary nucleus. These
hypothalamic sites are both well defined in rodents but poorly defined in humans.
Our findings indicate that CART expression in hypothalamic neurons is conserved
across species but the identified differences suggest that CART is also involved 
in the control of species-specific related functions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2011.09.020 
PMID: 22030409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1810. Behav Processes. 2012 Feb;89(2):121-7. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.10.002. Epub
2011 Oct 21.

Intertemporal choice in lemurs.

Stevens JR(1), Mühlhoff N.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Adaptive Behavior and Cognition, Max Planck Institute for Human
Development, Lentzeallee 94, 14195 Berlin, Germany. jeffrey.r.stevens@gmail.com

Different species vary in their ability to wait for delayed rewards in
intertemporal choice tasks. Models of rate maximization account for part of this 
variation, but other factors such as social structure and feeding ecology seem to
underly some species differences. Though studies have evaluated intertemporal
choice in several primate species, including Old World monkeys, New World
monkeys, and apes, prosimians have not been tested. This study investigated
intertemporal choices in three species of lemur (black-and-white ruffed lemurs,
Varecia variegata, red ruffed lemurs, Varecia rubra, and black lemurs, Eulemur
macaco) to assess how they compare to other primate species and whether their
choices are consistent with rate maximization. We offered lemurs a choice between
two food items available immediately and six food items available after a delay. 
We found that by adjusting the delay to the larger reward, the lemurs were
indifferent between the two options at a mean delay of 17 s, ranging from 9 to 25
s. These data are comparable to data collected from common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus). The lemur data were not consistent with models of rate maximization.
The addition of lemurs to the list of species tested in these tasks will help
uncover the role of life history and socio-ecological factors influencing
intertemporal choices.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.10.002 
PMID: 22024661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

