

1811. J Vet Med Sci. 2012 Mar;74(3):357-9. Epub 2011 Oct 20.

A case of intestinal mucormycosis in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Yasuda M(1), Inoue T, Takakura A, Itoh T.

Author information: 
(1)ICLAS Monitoring Center, Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Kanagawa 210–0821, Japan. myasuda@ciea.or.jp

A 3-year-old female common marmoset was euthanatized because of wasting. Grossly,
a perforating lesion was present in the jejunum and hemorrhagic lesions in the
cecum and colon. Histopathologically, these gross lesions were a perforated
jejunal ulcer and necrotizing colitis, respectively. Necrotizing colitis was
characterized by extensive mucosal necrosis along with numerous ribbon-shaped
aseptate hyphae. These aseptate hyaline hyphae were positively stained with PAS
and GMS, and reacted immunohistochemically with the antibody against the family
Mucoraceae. This case was diagnosed as intestinal mucormycosis. This is the first
report on mucormycosis in a common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.10-0187 
PMID: 22020147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1812. Virology. 2011 Dec 20;421(2):184-91. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2011.10.001. Epub 2011 
Oct 21.

Heat shock factor 1 upregulates transcription of Epstein-Barr Virus nuclear
antigen 1 by binding to a heat shock element within the BamHI-Q promoter.

Wang FW(1), Wu XR, Liu WJ, Liao YJ, Lin S, Zong YS, Zeng MS, Zeng YX, Mai SJ, Xie
D.

Author information: 
(1)The State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Cancer Center, Sun
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.

Erratum in
    Virology. 2021 Sep;561:125.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) is essential for maintenance
of the episome and establishment of latency. In this study, we observed that heat
treatment effectively induced EBNA1 transcription in EBV-transformed B95-8 and
human LCL cell lines. Although Cp is considered as the sole promoter used for the
expression of EBNA1 transcripts in the lymphoblastoid cell lines, the RT-PCR
results showed that the EBNA1 transcripts induced by heat treatment arise from
Qp-initiated transcripts. Using bioinformatics, a high affinity and functional
heat shock factor 1 (HSF1)-binding element within the -17/+4 oligonucleotide of
the Qp was found, and was determined by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and 
chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. Moreover, heat shock and exogenous HSF1
expression induced Qp activity in reporter assays. Further, RNA
interference-mediated HSF1 gene silencing attenuated heat-induced EBNA1
expression in B95-8 cells. These results provide evidence that EBNA1 is a new
target for the transcription factor HSF1.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2011.10.001 
PMID: 22018489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

