

1813. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2012 Mar;7(1):253-65. doi: 10.1007/s11481-011-9320-5.
Epub 2011 Oct 20.

Discrepant effects of human interferon-gamma on clinical and immunological
disease parameters in a novel marmoset model for multiple sclerosis.

Jagessar SA(1), Gran B, Heijmans N, Bauer J, Laman JD, 't Hart BA, Constantinescu
CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The core pathogenic process in the common marmoset model of multiple sclerosis
(MS) is the activation of memory-like T cells specific for peptide 34 to 56
derived from the extracellular domain of myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG(34-56)). Immunization with MOG(34-56) in incomplete Freund's adjuvant is a
sufficient stimulus for in vivo activation of these T cells, together with the
induction of MS-like disease and CNS pathology. Ex vivo functional
characteristics of MOG(34-56) specific T cells are specific cytolysis of peptide 
pulsed target cells and high IL-17A production. To indentify possible functions
in this new model of T helper 1 cells, which play a central pathogenic role in MS
models induced with complete Freund's adjuvant, we tested the effect of human
interferon-γ (IFNγ) administration during disease initiation of the disease (day 
0-25) and around the time of disease expression (psd 56-81). The results show a
clear modulatory effect of early IFNγ treatment on humoral and cellular
autoimmune parameters, but no generalized mitigating effect on the disease
course. These results argue against a prominent pathogenic role of T helper 1
cells in this new marmoset EAE model.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-011-9320-5 
PMCID: PMC3280389
PMID: 22012268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1814. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2011 Nov;70(11):992-1005. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e318234d421.

B-cell depletion attenuates white and gray matter pathology in marmoset
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

Kap YS(1), Bauer J, Driel Nv, Bleeker WK, Parren PW, Kooi EJ, Geurts JJ, Laman
JD, Craigen JL, Blezer E, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk.
kap@bprc.nl

This study investigated the effect of CD20-positive B-cell depletion on central
nervous system (CNS) white and gray matter pathology in experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis in common marmosets, a relevant preclinical model of multiple
sclerosis. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis was induced in 14 marmosets 
by immunization with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in
complete Freund adjuvant. At 21 days after immunization, B-cell depletion was
achieved by weekly intravenous injections of HuMab 7D8, a human-anti-human CD20
antibody that cross-reacts with marmoset CD20. In vivo magnetic resonance imaging
showed widespread brain white matter demyelination in control marmosets that was 
absent in CD20 antibody-treated marmosets. High-contrast postmortem magnetic
resonance imaging showed white matter lesions in 4of the 7 antibody-treated
marmosets, but these were significantly smaller than those in controls. The same 
technique revealed gray matter lesions in 5 control marmosets, but none in
antibody-treated marmosets. Histologic analysis confirmed that inflammation,
demyelination, and axonal damage were substantially reduced in brain, spinal
cord, and optic nerves of CD20 antibody-treated marmosets. In conclusion,
CD20-postive B-cell depletion by HuMab 7D8 profoundly reduced the development of 
both white and gray matter lesions in the marmoset CNS. These data underline the 
central role of B cells in CNS inflammatory-demyelinating disease.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e318234d421 
PMID: 22002426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

