

1814. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2011 Nov;70(11):992-1005. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e318234d421.

B-cell depletion attenuates white and gray matter pathology in marmoset
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

Kap YS(1), Bauer J, Driel Nv, Bleeker WK, Parren PW, Kooi EJ, Geurts JJ, Laman
JD, Craigen JL, Blezer E, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk.
kap@bprc.nl

This study investigated the effect of CD20-positive B-cell depletion on central
nervous system (CNS) white and gray matter pathology in experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis in common marmosets, a relevant preclinical model of multiple
sclerosis. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis was induced in 14 marmosets 
by immunization with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in
complete Freund adjuvant. At 21 days after immunization, B-cell depletion was
achieved by weekly intravenous injections of HuMab 7D8, a human-anti-human CD20
antibody that cross-reacts with marmoset CD20. In vivo magnetic resonance imaging
showed widespread brain white matter demyelination in control marmosets that was 
absent in CD20 antibody-treated marmosets. High-contrast postmortem magnetic
resonance imaging showed white matter lesions in 4of the 7 antibody-treated
marmosets, but these were significantly smaller than those in controls. The same 
technique revealed gray matter lesions in 5 control marmosets, but none in
antibody-treated marmosets. Histologic analysis confirmed that inflammation,
demyelination, and axonal damage were substantially reduced in brain, spinal
cord, and optic nerves of CD20 antibody-treated marmosets. In conclusion,
CD20-postive B-cell depletion by HuMab 7D8 profoundly reduced the development of 
both white and gray matter lesions in the marmoset CNS. These data underline the 
central role of B cells in CNS inflammatory-demyelinating disease.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e318234d421 
PMID: 22002426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1815. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2011;82(3):131-42. doi: 10.1159/000330914. Epub 2011 Oct 
12.

Influence of different light intensities on the daily grooming distribution of
common marmosets Callithrix jacchus.

Lampert RM(1), de Azevedo CV, Menezes AA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de
Biociências, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.

The daily distribution of autogrooming was evaluated in adult marmosets submitted
to different illumination intensities in the light phase of the light-dark cycle.
Autogrooming and locomotor activity were monitored and the faecal cortisol level 
assessed as a stress indicator. The distribution of autogrooming showed two
distinct tendencies: when the light intensity varied from 500 to 200 lux, a
slight increase in frequency and duration was observed, while a significant
decrease in both variables occurred at 10 lux. Varying light intensities did not 
inhibit rhythm synchronization. The daily profile of autogrooming was mainly
unimodal with an acrophase in the first half of the light phase. Faecal cortisol 
levels tended to increase in animals submitted to 100 and 10 lux, but these
results are not conclusive. We suggest keeping captive marmosets in light
intensities of at least 200 lux in the light phase, allowing animals to maintain 
autogrooming levels in order to reduce the discomfort caused by captivity and
isolation.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000330914 
PMID: 21997701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

