

1815. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2011;82(3):131-42. doi: 10.1159/000330914. Epub 2011 Oct 
12.

Influence of different light intensities on the daily grooming distribution of
common marmosets Callithrix jacchus.

Lampert RM(1), de Azevedo CV, Menezes AA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de
Biociências, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.

The daily distribution of autogrooming was evaluated in adult marmosets submitted
to different illumination intensities in the light phase of the light-dark cycle.
Autogrooming and locomotor activity were monitored and the faecal cortisol level 
assessed as a stress indicator. The distribution of autogrooming showed two
distinct tendencies: when the light intensity varied from 500 to 200 lux, a
slight increase in frequency and duration was observed, while a significant
decrease in both variables occurred at 10 lux. Varying light intensities did not 
inhibit rhythm synchronization. The daily profile of autogrooming was mainly
unimodal with an acrophase in the first half of the light phase. Faecal cortisol 
levels tended to increase in animals submitted to 100 and 10 lux, but these
results are not conclusive. We suggest keeping captive marmosets in light
intensities of at least 200 lux in the light phase, allowing animals to maintain 
autogrooming levels in order to reduce the discomfort caused by captivity and
isolation.

Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000330914 
PMID: 21997701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1816. Genome Res. 2011 Dec;21(12):2038-48. doi: 10.1101/gr.122937.111. Epub 2011 Oct
12.

A matter of life or death: how microsatellites emerge in and vanish from the
human genome.

Kelkar YD(1), Eckert KA, Chiaromonte F, Makova KD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Penn State University, University Park, Pennsylvania
16802, USA.

Microsatellites--tandem repeats of short DNA motifs--are abundant in the human
genome and have high mutation rates. While microsatellite instability is
implicated in numerous genetic diseases, the molecular processes involved in
their emergence and disappearance are still not well understood. Microsatellites 
are hypothesized to follow a life cycle, wherein they are born and expand into
adulthood, until their degradation and death. Here we identified microsatellite
births/deaths in human, chimpanzee, and orangutan genomes, using macaque and
marmoset as outgroups. We inferred mutations causing births/deaths based on
parsimony, and investigated local genomic environments affecting them. We also
studied birth/death patterns within transposable elements (Alus and L1s), coding 
regions, and disease-associated loci. We observed that substitutions were the
predominant cause for births of short microsatellites, while insertions and
deletions were important for births of longer microsatellites. Substitutions were
the cause for deaths of microsatellites of virtually all lengths. AT-rich L1
sequences exhibited elevated frequency of births/deaths over their entire length,
while GC-rich Alus only in their 3' poly(A) tails and middle A-stretches, with
differences depending on transposable element integration timing. Births/deaths
were strongly selected against in coding regions. Births/deaths occurred in
genomic regions with high substitution rates, protomicrosatellite content, and L1
density, but low GC content and Alu density. The majority of the 17
disease-associated microsatellites examined are evolutionarily ancient (were
acquired by the common ancestor of simians). Our genome-wide investigation of
microsatellite life cycle has fundamental applications for predicting the
susceptibility of birth/death of microsatellites, including many disease-causing 
loci.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.122937.111 
PMCID: PMC3227094
PMID: 21994250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

