

1817. J Exp Biol. 2011 Nov 1;214(Pt 21):3619-29. doi: 10.1242/jeb.056101.

Vocal control by the common marmoset in the presence of interfering noise.

Roy S(1), Miller CT, Gottsch D, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

The natural environment is inherently noisy with acoustic interferences. It is,
therefore, beneficial for a species to modify its vocal production to effectively
communicate in the presence of interfering noises. Non-human primates have been
traditionally considered to possess limited voluntary vocal control, but little
is known about their ability to modify vocal behavior when encountering
interfering noises. Here we tested the ability of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) to control the initiation of vocalizations and maintain vocal
interactions between pairs in an acoustic environment in which the length and
predictability (periodic or random aperiodic occurrences) of interfering noise
bursts were varied. Despite the presence of interfering noise, the marmosets
continued to engage in antiphonal calling behavior. Results showed that the
overwhelming majority of calls were initiated during silence gaps even when the
length of the silence gap following each noise burst was unpredictable. During
the periodic noise conditions, as the length of the silence gap decreased, the
latency between the end of noise burst and call onset decreased significantly. In
contrast, when presented with aperiodic noise bursts, the marmosets chose to call
predominantly during long (4 and 8 s) over short (2 s) silence gaps. In the 8 s
periodic noise conditions, a marmoset pair either initiated both calls of an
antiphonal exchange within the same silence gap or exchanged calls in two
consecutive silence gaps. Our findings provide compelling evidence that common
marmosets are capable of modifying their vocal production according to the
dynamics of their acoustic environment during vocal communication.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.056101 
PMCID: PMC3192021
PMID: 21993791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1818. Primates. 2012 Jan;53(1):65-70. doi: 10.1007/s10329-011-0277-z. Epub 2011 Oct 7.

Use of water sources by buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps) at two
sites in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest.

Ferrari SF(1), Hilário RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Universidade Federal de Sergipe, Av. Marechal Rondon
s/n, Jardim Rosa Elze, São Cristóvão, SE 49.100-000, Brazil. ferrari@pq.cnpq.br

Many primates are able to satisfy most of their water requirements from the
liquid content of their food, but almost all need to visit external water sources
during critical periods. The present study analyses the use of water sources in
two free-ranging groups of buffy-headed marmosets (Caratinga and RBAR groups)
over an annual cycle. At both sites, a large proportion of the days had no
visits, and the visitation rate fell by approximately half in the wet season.
Differences between sites appear to reflect both contrasts in habitat structure
and the composition of the diet. Despite inhabiting a more humid environment, for
example, the RBAR group visited water sources on a significantly larger
proportion of days than the Caratinga group. While 94.2% of the records for the
RBAR group involved bromeliads, this type of source was not recorded at
Caratinga, where terrestrial sources were used relatively frequently. Seasonal
variation indicates that arboreal sources are preferred over terrestrial ones at 
both sites, and that rivers are used as a last resort, when other sources are
scarce. The use of terrestrial sources involves cautious and coordinated group
behaviour, which presumably reflects the perceived predation risk. Overall, the
relatively frequent use of watering sites in the RBAR group might be related to
its highly fungivorous diet, in comparison with the more typical gummivorous diet
of the Caratinga group, although the exact implications of this difference are
not clear from the available data.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-011-0277-z 
PMID: 21979882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

