

1818. Primates. 2012 Jan;53(1):65-70. doi: 10.1007/s10329-011-0277-z. Epub 2011 Oct 7.

Use of water sources by buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps) at two
sites in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest.

Ferrari SF(1), Hilário RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Universidade Federal de Sergipe, Av. Marechal Rondon
s/n, Jardim Rosa Elze, São Cristóvão, SE 49.100-000, Brazil. ferrari@pq.cnpq.br

Many primates are able to satisfy most of their water requirements from the
liquid content of their food, but almost all need to visit external water sources
during critical periods. The present study analyses the use of water sources in
two free-ranging groups of buffy-headed marmosets (Caratinga and RBAR groups)
over an annual cycle. At both sites, a large proportion of the days had no
visits, and the visitation rate fell by approximately half in the wet season.
Differences between sites appear to reflect both contrasts in habitat structure
and the composition of the diet. Despite inhabiting a more humid environment, for
example, the RBAR group visited water sources on a significantly larger
proportion of days than the Caratinga group. While 94.2% of the records for the
RBAR group involved bromeliads, this type of source was not recorded at
Caratinga, where terrestrial sources were used relatively frequently. Seasonal
variation indicates that arboreal sources are preferred over terrestrial ones at 
both sites, and that rivers are used as a last resort, when other sources are
scarce. The use of terrestrial sources involves cautious and coordinated group
behaviour, which presumably reflects the perceived predation risk. Overall, the
relatively frequent use of watering sites in the RBAR group might be related to
its highly fungivorous diet, in comparison with the more typical gummivorous diet
of the Caratinga group, although the exact implications of this difference are
not clear from the available data.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-011-0277-z 
PMID: 21979882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1819. Drug Metab Dispos. 2012 Jan;40(1):70-5. doi: 10.1124/dmd.111.041566. Epub 2011
Oct 5.

Debrisoquine metabolism and CYP2D expression in marmoset liver microsomes.

Cooke BR(1), Bligh SW, Cybulski ZR, Ioannides C, Hall M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of In Vitro Metabolism, Huntingdon Life Sciences Ltd., Woolley
Road, Alconbury, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, PE28 4HS, UK.

The objective of this study was to define CYP2D enzymes in marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) liver microsomes, both at the activity level using debrisoquine as the
model substrate and at the protein level using antibodies raised to human CYP2D6.
Marmoset liver microsomes were incubated with [(14)C]debrisoquine, and the
structure of the generated metabolites was determined using liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and NMR. Marmoset liver microsomes were
very effective in hydroxylating debrisoquine at various positions. Although
4-hydroxydebrisoquine was formed, in contrast to rat and human it was only a
minor metabolite. Debrisoquine was more extensively hydroxylated in the 7, 5, 6, 
and 8 positions. In addition to the monohydroxylated metabolites, a dihydroxy
metabolite, namely 6,7-dihydroxydebrisoquine, was identified. Finally,
metabolites that had undergone ring opening were also detected but were not
investigated further. Antibodies to CYP2D6 immunoreacted with protein in marmoset
and human but not rat hepatic microsomes. In conclusion, we demonstrate that
marmoset liver microsomes are effective in hydroxylating debrisoquine at various 
positions and that they contain a protein that is immunorelated to human CYP2D6.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.111.041566 
PMID: 21976620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

