

1819. Drug Metab Dispos. 2012 Jan;40(1):70-5. doi: 10.1124/dmd.111.041566. Epub 2011
Oct 5.

Debrisoquine metabolism and CYP2D expression in marmoset liver microsomes.

Cooke BR(1), Bligh SW, Cybulski ZR, Ioannides C, Hall M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of In Vitro Metabolism, Huntingdon Life Sciences Ltd., Woolley
Road, Alconbury, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, PE28 4HS, UK.

The objective of this study was to define CYP2D enzymes in marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) liver microsomes, both at the activity level using debrisoquine as the
model substrate and at the protein level using antibodies raised to human CYP2D6.
Marmoset liver microsomes were incubated with [(14)C]debrisoquine, and the
structure of the generated metabolites was determined using liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and NMR. Marmoset liver microsomes were
very effective in hydroxylating debrisoquine at various positions. Although
4-hydroxydebrisoquine was formed, in contrast to rat and human it was only a
minor metabolite. Debrisoquine was more extensively hydroxylated in the 7, 5, 6, 
and 8 positions. In addition to the monohydroxylated metabolites, a dihydroxy
metabolite, namely 6,7-dihydroxydebrisoquine, was identified. Finally,
metabolites that had undergone ring opening were also detected but were not
investigated further. Antibodies to CYP2D6 immunoreacted with protein in marmoset
and human but not rat hepatic microsomes. In conclusion, we demonstrate that
marmoset liver microsomes are effective in hydroxylating debrisoquine at various 
positions and that they contain a protein that is immunorelated to human CYP2D6.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.111.041566 
PMID: 21976620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1820. J Med Chem. 2011 Nov 10;54(21):7547-57. doi: 10.1021/jm2008453. Epub 2011 Oct 19.

Introduction of an electron withdrawing group on the hydroxyphenylnaphthol
scaffold improves the potency of 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2
(17β-HSD2) inhibitors.

Wetzel M(1), Marchais-Oberwinkler S, Perspicace E, Möller G, Adamski J, Hartmann 
RW.

Author information: 
(1)Saarland University, Saarbrücken, Germany.

Estrogen deficiency in postmenopausal women or elderly men is often associated
with the skeletal disease osteoporosis. The supplementation of estradiol (E2) in 
osteoporotic patients is known to prevent bone fracture but cannot be
administered because of adverse effect. As 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 
2 (17β-HSD2) oxidizes E2 to its inactive form estrone (E1) and has been found in 
osteoblastic cells, it is an attractive target for the treatment of osteoporosis.
Twenty-one novel, naphthalene-derived compounds have been synthesized and
evaluated for their 17β-HSD2 inhibition and their selectivity toward 17β-HSD1 and
the estrogen receptors (ERs) α and β. Compound 19 turned out to be the most
potent and selective inhibitor of 17β-HSD2 in cell-free assays and had a very
good cellular activity in MDA-MB-231 cells, expressing naturally 17β-HSD2. It
also showed marked inhibition of the E1-formation by the rat and mouse
orthologous enzymes and strong inhibition of monkey 17β-HSD2. It is thus an
appropriate candidate to be further evaluated in a disease-oriented model.

DOI: 10.1021/jm2008453 
PMID: 21972996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

