

1822. Virology. 2011 Nov 25;420(2):117-24. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2011.08.022. Epub 2011 
Sep 28.

A small nonhuman primate model for filovirus-induced disease.

Carrion R Jr(1), Ro Y, Hoosien K, Ticer A, Brasky K, de la Garza M, Mansfield K, 
Patterson JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Texas Biomedical Research Institute,
7620 NW Loop 410, San Antonio, TX 78227, USA. carrion@TxBiomed.org

Ebolavirus and Marburgvirus are members of the filovirus family and induce a
fatal hemorrhagic disease in humans and nonhuman primates with 90% case fatality.
To develop a small nonhuman primate model for filovirus disease, common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were intramuscularly inoculated with wild type Marburgvirus 
Musoke or Ebolavirus Zaire. The infection resulted in a systemic fatal disease
with clinical and morphological features closely resembling human infection.
Animals experienced weight loss, fever, high virus titers in tissue,
thrombocytopenia, neutrophilia, high liver transaminases and phosphatases and
disseminated intravascular coagulation. Evidence of a severe disseminated viral
infection characterized principally by multifocal to coalescing hepatic necrosis 
was seen in EBOV animals. MARV-infected animals displayed only moderate fibrin
deposition in the spleen. Lymphoid necrosis and lymphocytic depletion observed in
spleen. These findings provide support for the use of the common marmoset as a
small nonhuman primate model for filovirus induced hemorrhagic fever.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2011.08.022 
PMCID: PMC3195836
PMID: 21959017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1823. Mov Disord. 2011 Nov;26(13):2354-63. doi: 10.1002/mds.23867. Epub 2011 Sep 23.

Synergistic antidyskinetic effects of topiramate and amantadine in animal models 
of Parkinson's disease.

Kobylecki C(1), Hill MP, Crossman AR, Ravenscroft P.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, United
Kingdom. christopher.kobylecki@manchester.ac.uk

L-Dopa-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease can be alleviated 
by amantadine, an antagonist at N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors. The
antiepileptic drug topiramate, which blocks
α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors, has also been
shown to reduce dyskinesia. The purpose of this study was to examine the
behavioral pharmacology of topiramate alone and in combination with amantadine in
animal models of PD and L-dopa-induced dyskinesia. The effects of topiramate
(5-20 mg/kg) and amantadine (5-20 mg/kg) on abnormal involuntary movements (the
rat homologue of dyskinesia) and Rotarod performance were assessed alone and in
combination in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat following chronic L-dopa
treatment. Dyskinesia, parkinsonian disability, and "on-time" were assessed in
the MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate following administration of topiramate (5-20
mg/kg) and amantadine (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) alone and in combination. Topiramate and
amantadine dose-dependently reduced dyskinesia in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned 
rat, whereas topiramate reduced Rotarod performance; there was no effect on
parkinsonian disability in the MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate, in which both
drugs reduced dyskinesia. Topiramate and amantadine exhibited differential
antidyskinetic effects on dyskinesia elicited by the dopamine D1 receptor agonist
SKF 38393 (2 mg/kg). Subthreshold doses of both drugs in combination had a
synergistic effect on dyskinesia in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat, with no
worsening of motor performance; this effect was confirmed in the MPTP-lesioned
nonhuman primate, with a selective reduction in "bad on-time." These data confirm
the antidyskinetic potential of topiramate and suggest that combination with
low-dose amantadine may allow better reduction of dyskinesia with no adverse
motor effects.

Copyright © 2011 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.23867 
PMID: 21953539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

