

1826. J Physiol. 2011 Dec 1;589(Pt 23):5741-58. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.213520. Epub
2011 Sep 26.

Visual motion integration by neurons in the middle temporal area of a New World
monkey, the marmoset.

Solomon SS(1), Tailby C, Gharaei S, Camp AJ, Bourne JA, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, School of Medical Sciences and
Bosch Institute, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

The middle temporal area (MT/V5) is an anatomically distinct region of primate
visual cortex that is specialized for the processing of image motion. It is
generally thought that some neurons in area MT are capable of signalling the
motion of complex patterns, but this has only been established in the macaque
monkey. We made extracellular recordings from single units in area MT of
anaesthetized marmosets, a New World monkey. We show through quantitative
analyses that some neurons (35 of 185; 19%) are capable of signalling pattern
motion ('pattern cells'). Across several dimensions, the visual response of
pattern cells in marmosets is indistinguishable from that of pattern cells in
macaques. Other neurons respond to the motion of oriented contours in a pattern
('component cells') or show intermediate properties. In addition, we encountered 
a subset of neurons (22 of 185; 12%) insensitive to sinusoidal gratings but very 
responsive to plaids and other two-dimensional patterns and otherwise
indistinguishable from pattern cells. We compared the response of each cell class
to drifting gratings and dot fields. In pattern cells, directional selectivity
was similar for gratings and dot fields; in component cells, directional
selectivity was weaker for dot fields than gratings. Pattern cells were more
likely to have stronger suppressive surrounds, prefer lower spatial frequencies
and prefer higher speeds than component cells. We conclude that pattern motion
sensitivity is a feature of some neurons in area MT of both New and Old World
monkeys, suggesting that this functional property is an important stage in motion
analysis and is likely to be conserved in humans.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.213520 
PMCID: PMC3249047
PMID: 21946851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1827. Physiol Behav. 2012 Jan 18;105(2):510-21. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.09.004.
Epub 2011 Sep 14.

Simultaneous measurement of endogenous steroid hormones and their metabolites
with LC-MS/MS in faeces of a New World primate species, Cebus capucinus.

Weltring A(1), Schaebs FS, Perry SE, Deschner T.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Department of Primatology,
Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig, Germany. anja_weltring@eva.mpg.de

We developed and validated a method to measure steroid hormones with liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in faecal samples of
white-faced capuchins. The method includes the measurement of adrenal and gonadal
hormones such as cortisol, testosterone, estrone, progesterone and a number of
their faecal metabolites. This method can be used for simultaneous routine
measurements of steroids in faecal samples and provides a reference method for
the validation of new immunoassays in this matrix. The optimised method consists 
of an extraction of the dried faecal samples with 80% methanol followed by
purification of the extracts by solid phase extraction, solvolytic cleavage of
conjugates and liquid-liquid extraction. Extracts were measured by LC-MS/MS with 
an electrospray interface in positive ionisation mode. Out of 19 steroids spiked 
into methanol extracts, 14 showed a recovery of 79.8-118.5% with an intra-day
precision of 2.5-13.0% and an inter-day precision of 7.2-15.1%. Detection limits 
for these steroids ranged from 0.3 to 27.0 ng/mL of extract. Five steroids did
not fulfil our requirements concerning precision and accuracy and we therefore
considered these to not be reliably measurable with this method. While there was 
no indication of considerable amounts of conjugated forms for most metabolites,
87% of the testosterone was found in the solvolysis fraction, which indicates
that the majority of testosterone was conjugated. Therefore, solvolysis turned
out to be crucial, especially for the quantification of the total amount of
testosterone. The physiological validation of this LC-MS/MS method confirmed
known physiologically caused differences in faecal steroid concentrations. This
indicates the usefulness of the method in investigating variation in the levels
of major steroid hormones in faeces of white-faced capuchins. The possibility to 
simultaneously measure hormones of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis 
and the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis makes this method suitable for 
dealing with questions concerning the cross talk between those axes.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.09.004 
PMID: 21945370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

