

1828. J Neurosci Methods. 2012 Jan 15;203(1):28-40. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.09.004. Epub 2011 Sep 12.

Wireless multi-channel single unit recording in freely moving and vocalizing
primates.

Roy S(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

The ability to record well-isolated action potentials from individual neurons in 
naturally behaving animals is crucial for understanding neural mechanisms
underlying natural behaviors. Traditional neurophysiology techniques, however,
require the animal to be restrained which often restricts natural behavior. An
example is the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World
primate species, used in our laboratory to study the neural correlates of vocal
production and sensory feedback. When restrained by traditional
neurophysiological techniques marmoset vocal behavior is severely inhibited.
Tethered recording systems, while proven effective in rodents pose limitations in
arboreal animals such as the marmoset that typically roam in a three-dimensional 
environment. To overcome these obstacles, we have developed a wireless neural
recording technique that is capable of collecting single-unit data from
chronically implanted multi-electrodes in freely moving marmosets. A lightweight,
low power and low noise wireless transmitter (headstage) is attached to a
multi-electrode array placed in the premotor cortex of the marmoset. The wireless
headstage is capable of transmitting 15 channels of neural data with
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) comparable to a tethered system. To minimize
radio-frequency (RF) and electro-magnetic interference (EMI), the experiments
were conducted within a custom designed RF/EMI and acoustically shielded chamber.
The individual electrodes of the multi-electrode array were periodically advanced
to densely sample the cortical layers. We recorded single-unit data over a period
of several months from the frontal cortex of two marmosets. These recordings
demonstrate the feasibility of using our wireless recording method to study
single neuron activity in freely roaming primates.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.09.004 
PMCID: PMC3848526
PMID: 21933683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1829. Eur J Immunol. 2012 Jan;42(1):217-27. doi: 10.1002/eji.201141863. Epub 2011 Dec
2.

Unravelling the T-cell-mediated autoimmune attack on CNS myelin in a new primate 
EAE model induced with MOG34-56 peptide in incomplete adjuvant.

Jagessar SA(1), Heijmans N, Blezer EL, Bauer J, Blokhuis JH, Wubben JA, Drijfhout
JW, van den Elsen PJ, Laman JD, Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) has been documented 
in common marmosets using peptide 34-56 from human myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG(34-56) ) in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA). Here, we report
that this EAE model is associated with widespread demyelination of grey and white
matter. We performed an in-depth analysis of the specificity, MHC restriction and
functions of the activated T cells in the model, which likely cause EAE in an
autoantibody-independent manner. T-cell lines isolated from blood and lymphoid
organs of animals immunized with MOG(34-56) displayed high production of IL-17A
and specific lysis of MOG(34-56) -pulsed EBV B-lymphoblastoid cells as typical
hallmarks. Cytotoxicity was directed at the epitope MOG(40-48) presented by the
non-classical MHC class Ib allele Caja-E, which is orthologue to HLA-E and is
expressed in non-inflamed brain. In vivo activated T cells identified by flow
cytometry in cultures with MOG(34-56,) comprised CD4(+) CD56(+) and CD4(+) CD8(+)
CD56(+) T cells. Furthermore, phenotypical analysis showed that CD4(+) CD8(+)
CD56(+) T cells also expressed CD27, but CD16, CD45RO, CD28 and CCR7 were absent.
These results show that, in the MOG34-56/IFA marmoset EAE model, a
Caja-E-restricted population of autoreactive cytotoxic T cells plays a key role
in the process of demyelination in the grey and white matter.

Copyright © 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.201141863 
PMID: 21928277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

