

1829. Eur J Immunol. 2012 Jan;42(1):217-27. doi: 10.1002/eji.201141863. Epub 2011 Dec
2.

Unravelling the T-cell-mediated autoimmune attack on CNS myelin in a new primate 
EAE model induced with MOG34-56 peptide in incomplete adjuvant.

Jagessar SA(1), Heijmans N, Blezer EL, Bauer J, Blokhuis JH, Wubben JA, Drijfhout
JW, van den Elsen PJ, Laman JD, Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) has been documented 
in common marmosets using peptide 34-56 from human myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG(34-56) ) in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA). Here, we report
that this EAE model is associated with widespread demyelination of grey and white
matter. We performed an in-depth analysis of the specificity, MHC restriction and
functions of the activated T cells in the model, which likely cause EAE in an
autoantibody-independent manner. T-cell lines isolated from blood and lymphoid
organs of animals immunized with MOG(34-56) displayed high production of IL-17A
and specific lysis of MOG(34-56) -pulsed EBV B-lymphoblastoid cells as typical
hallmarks. Cytotoxicity was directed at the epitope MOG(40-48) presented by the
non-classical MHC class Ib allele Caja-E, which is orthologue to HLA-E and is
expressed in non-inflamed brain. In vivo activated T cells identified by flow
cytometry in cultures with MOG(34-56,) comprised CD4(+) CD56(+) and CD4(+) CD8(+)
CD56(+) T cells. Furthermore, phenotypical analysis showed that CD4(+) CD8(+)
CD56(+) T cells also expressed CD27, but CD16, CD45RO, CD28 and CCR7 were absent.
These results show that, in the MOG34-56/IFA marmoset EAE model, a
Caja-E-restricted population of autoreactive cytotoxic T cells plays a key role
in the process of demyelination in the grey and white matter.

Copyright © 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.201141863 
PMID: 21928277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1830. Mol Cell. 2011 Sep 16;43(6):982-92. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2011.07.025.

A primate herpesvirus uses the integrator complex to generate viral microRNAs.

Cazalla D(1), Xie M, Steitz JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Boyer Center for
Molecular Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, 295 Congress Avenue, New 
Haven, CT 06536, USA.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is a γ-herpesvirus that expresses Sm class U RNAs
(HSURs) in latently infected marmoset T cells. By deep sequencing, we identified 
six HVS microRNAs (miRNAs) that are derived from three hairpin structures located
immediately downstream of the 3' end processing signals of three of the HSURs.
The viral miRNAs associate with Ago proteins and are biologically active. We
confirmed that the expression of the two classes of viral noncoding RNAs is
linked by identifying chimeric HSUR-pre-miRNA transcripts. We show that HVS miRNA
biogenesis relies on cis-acting elements specifically required for synthesis and 
processing of Sm class RNAs. Knockdown of protein components in vivo and
processing assays in vitro demonstrated that HVS does not utilize the
Microprocessor complex that generates most host miRNAs. Instead, the Integrator
complex cleaves to generate the 3' end of the HSUR and the pre-miRNA hairpin.
Exportin-5 and Dicer are then required to generate mature viral miRNAs.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2011.07.025 
PMCID: PMC3176678
PMID: 21925386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

