

183. Front Behav Neurosci. 2021 Feb 2;14:539411. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.539411.
eCollection 2020.

A Susceptible Period of Photic Day-Night Rhythm Loss in Common Marmoset Social
Behavior Development.

Koshiba M(1)(2)(3), Watarai-Senoo A(2), Karino G(2), Ozawa S(2), Kamei Y(4),
Honda Y(5), Tanaka I(5), Kodama T(5), Usui S(5), Tokuno H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Engineering Department, Yamaguchi University, Ube City, Japan.
(2)Pediatrics, Saitama Medical University, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Information Sciences, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.
(4)Obstetrics and Gynecology, Saitama Medical University, Saitama, Japan.
(5)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science, Setagaya, Japan.

The prevalence of neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorders such as pervasive
developmental disorders is rapidly increasing worldwide. Although these
developmental disorders are known to be influenced by an individual's genetic
background, the potential biological responses to early life's environmental
exposure to both physical and psychological factors must also be considered. Many
studies have acknowledged the influence of shorter time for rest at night and the
simultaneous occurrence of various kinds of complications involving developmental
disorders. In a prior study, we examined how a common marmoset's (Callithrix
jacchus) psychosocial development was affected when it was reared under constant 
daylight from birth and then reared individually by humans nursing them under
constant light (LL) during their juvenile development stages. The behaviors of
these marmosets were compared with those of normal day-night cycle (LD) marmosets
using a multivariate analysis based on principal component analysis (PCA). That
study found that LL marmosets relatively elicited egg-like calls (Ecall) and
side-to-side shakes of the upper body with rapid head rotation through adulthood 
frequently. Based on the PCA, these behaviors were interpreted as "alert" or
"hyperactive" states. However, we did not clarify susceptible periods of the
photic rhythm loss experience and the psychological development output. In this
study we summarize the following studies in our model animal colonies involving
30 animals (11 female, 19 males) to further explore critical age states of
inquiry about each social behavior profiling. We compared social behaviors of
three age stages, juvenile, adolescent and young adult equivalent to one another 
in four LL experience conditions, LL (postnatal day (P) 0 to around 150), Middle 
(P60-149, 90 days), Late (P150-239, 90 days), and LD (no experience). In the most
representative 1st and 2nd principal component scores, the shifting to higher
frequency of alert behaviors developed at the adult stage in LL, Middle, then
Late in turn. The no LL experience group, LD, generally featured higher frequency
of local preference of high position compared to LL experience present groups, in
adulthood. This limited model primate study might inspire different developmental
age sensitive mechanisms of neuronal network to control socio-emotional functions
by utilizing the multivariate visualization method, BOUQUET. This study could
potentially contribute to nurturing educational designs for social developmental 
disorders.

Copyright © 2021 Koshiba, Watarai-Senoo, Karino, Ozawa, Kamei, Honda, Tanaka,
Kodama, Usui and Tokuno.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.539411 
PMCID: PMC7884770
PMID: 33603653 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


184. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2021 Jan 28;10:621635. doi:
10.3389/fcimb.2020.621635. eCollection 2020.

A Novel Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Model of Human Inhalational Q Fever.

Nelson M(1), Salguero FJ(2), Hunter L(2), Atkins TP(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Salisbury,
United Kingdom.
(2)Public Health England, Salisbury, United Kingdom.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were shown to be susceptible to
inhalational infection with Coxiella burnetii, in a dose-dependent manner,
producing a disease similar to human Q fever, characterized by a resolving
febrile response. Illness was also associated with weight loss, liver enzyme
dysfunction, characteristic cellular activation, circulating INF-γ and
bacteraemia. Viable C. burnetii was recovered from various tissues during disease
and from 75% of the animal's lungs on 28 days post challenge, when there were no 
overt clinical features of disease but there was histological evidence of
macrophage and lymphocyte infiltration into the lung resulting in granulomatous
alveolitis. Taken together, these features of disease progression, physiology and
bacterial spread appear to be consistent with human disease and therefore the
common marmoset can be considered as a suitable model for studies on the
pathogenesis or the development of medical counter measures of inhalational Q
fever.

Crown Copyright © 2021 Dstl. Authors: Nelson, Salguero, Hunter and Atkins.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.621635 
PMCID: PMC7876459
PMID: 33585288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

