

1830. Mol Cell. 2011 Sep 16;43(6):982-92. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2011.07.025.

A primate herpesvirus uses the integrator complex to generate viral microRNAs.

Cazalla D(1), Xie M, Steitz JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Boyer Center for
Molecular Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, 295 Congress Avenue, New 
Haven, CT 06536, USA.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is a γ-herpesvirus that expresses Sm class U RNAs
(HSURs) in latently infected marmoset T cells. By deep sequencing, we identified 
six HVS microRNAs (miRNAs) that are derived from three hairpin structures located
immediately downstream of the 3' end processing signals of three of the HSURs.
The viral miRNAs associate with Ago proteins and are biologically active. We
confirmed that the expression of the two classes of viral noncoding RNAs is
linked by identifying chimeric HSUR-pre-miRNA transcripts. We show that HVS miRNA
biogenesis relies on cis-acting elements specifically required for synthesis and 
processing of Sm class RNAs. Knockdown of protein components in vivo and
processing assays in vitro demonstrated that HVS does not utilize the
Microprocessor complex that generates most host miRNAs. Instead, the Integrator
complex cleaves to generate the 3' end of the HSUR and the pre-miRNA hairpin.
Exportin-5 and Dicer are then required to generate mature viral miRNAs.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2011.07.025 
PMCID: PMC3176678
PMID: 21925386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1831. Cancer Sci. 2011 Dec;102(12):2221-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2011.02098.x. Epub
2011 Sep 30.

DNA ligand designed to antagonize EBNA1 represses Epstein-Barr virus-induced
immortalization.

Yasuda A(1), Noguchi K, Minoshima M, Kashiwazaki G, Kanda T, Katayama K,
Mitsuhashi J, Bando T, Sugiyama H, Sugimoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemotherapy, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transforms human B lymphocytes into immortalized cells
in vitro and is associated with various malignancies in vivo. EBNA1, which is
expressed in the majority of EBV-infected cells, recognizes specific DNA
sequences at the cis-acting latent origin of plasmid replication (oriP) element
of the EBV genome. EBNA1 plays a critical role in the viral episome maintenance
and transactivates viral transforming genes in latently infected cells.
Therefore, DNA-targeting agents that can disrupt the EBNA1-oriP interaction will 
offer novel functional inhibitors of EBNA1. Pyrrole-imidazole polyamides,
sequence-specific DNA ligands, can be designed to interfere with the binding of
various transcriptional factors. Here, we synthesized pyrrole-imidazole
polyamides targeting EBNA1-bound DNA sequences and developed an inhibitor for the
EBNA1-oriP interaction. A pyrrole-imidazole polyamide, designated as DSE-3, bound
adjacent to the EBNA1 recognition sequences located in the dyad symmetry element 
of oriP, and selectively inhibited EBNA1-oriP binding both in vitro and in vivo. 
DSE-3 also inhibited the proliferation of established lymphoblastoid cell lines
by eradicating EBV episomes from the cells. In addition, DSE-3 repressed the
expression of viral transforming genes after infecting human peripheral blood
mononuclear cells with EBV and, as a consequence, inhibited EBV-mediated B-cell
immortalization. These results suggest that EBNA1 functions will be an attractive
pharmacological target for EBV-associated diseases.

© 2011 Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2011.02098.x 
PMID: 21910783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

