

1831. Cancer Sci. 2011 Dec;102(12):2221-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2011.02098.x. Epub
2011 Sep 30.

DNA ligand designed to antagonize EBNA1 represses Epstein-Barr virus-induced
immortalization.

Yasuda A(1), Noguchi K, Minoshima M, Kashiwazaki G, Kanda T, Katayama K,
Mitsuhashi J, Bando T, Sugiyama H, Sugimoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemotherapy, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transforms human B lymphocytes into immortalized cells
in vitro and is associated with various malignancies in vivo. EBNA1, which is
expressed in the majority of EBV-infected cells, recognizes specific DNA
sequences at the cis-acting latent origin of plasmid replication (oriP) element
of the EBV genome. EBNA1 plays a critical role in the viral episome maintenance
and transactivates viral transforming genes in latently infected cells.
Therefore, DNA-targeting agents that can disrupt the EBNA1-oriP interaction will 
offer novel functional inhibitors of EBNA1. Pyrrole-imidazole polyamides,
sequence-specific DNA ligands, can be designed to interfere with the binding of
various transcriptional factors. Here, we synthesized pyrrole-imidazole
polyamides targeting EBNA1-bound DNA sequences and developed an inhibitor for the
EBNA1-oriP interaction. A pyrrole-imidazole polyamide, designated as DSE-3, bound
adjacent to the EBNA1 recognition sequences located in the dyad symmetry element 
of oriP, and selectively inhibited EBNA1-oriP binding both in vitro and in vivo. 
DSE-3 also inhibited the proliferation of established lymphoblastoid cell lines
by eradicating EBV episomes from the cells. In addition, DSE-3 repressed the
expression of viral transforming genes after infecting human peripheral blood
mononuclear cells with EBV and, as a consequence, inhibited EBV-mediated B-cell
immortalization. These results suggest that EBNA1 functions will be an attractive
pharmacological target for EBV-associated diseases.

© 2011 Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2011.02098.x 
PMID: 21910783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1832. Neuroimage. 2012 Jan 16;59(2):979-85. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.08.064. Epub
2011 Aug 27.

In vivo quantification of T₂ anisotropy in white matter fibers in marmoset
monkeys.

Sati P(1), Silva AC, van Gelderen P, Gaitan MI, Wohler JE, Jacobson S, Duyn JH,
Reich DS.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Unit, Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institute 
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland, USA. satip@ninds.nih.gov

T₂-weighted MRI at high field is a promising approach for studying noninvasively 
the tissue structure and composition of the brain. However, the biophysical
origin of T₂ contrast, especially in white matter, remains poorly understood.
Recent work has shown that R₂ (=1/T₂) may depend on the tissue's orientation
relative to the static magnetic field (B(0)) and suggested that this dependence
could be attributed to local anisotropy in the magnetic properties of brain
tissue. In the present work, we analyzed high-resolution, multi-gradient-echo
images of in vivo marmoset brains at 7T, and compared them with ex vivo diffusion
tensor images, to show that R₂ relaxation in white matter is highly sensitive to 
the fiber orientation relative to the main field. We directly demonstrate this
orientation dependence by performing in vivo multi-gradient-echo experiments in
two orthogonal brain positions, uncovering a nearly 50% change in the R₂
relaxation rate constant of the optic radiations. We attribute this substantial
R₂ anisotropy to local subvoxel susceptibility effects arising from the highly
ordered and anisotropic structure of the myelin sheath.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.08.064 
PMCID: PMC3230780
PMID: 21906687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

