

1832. Neuroimage. 2012 Jan 16;59(2):979-85. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.08.064. Epub
2011 Aug 27.

In vivo quantification of T₂ anisotropy in white matter fibers in marmoset
monkeys.

Sati P(1), Silva AC, van Gelderen P, Gaitan MI, Wohler JE, Jacobson S, Duyn JH,
Reich DS.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Unit, Neuroimmunology Branch, National Institute 
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland, USA. satip@ninds.nih.gov

T₂-weighted MRI at high field is a promising approach for studying noninvasively 
the tissue structure and composition of the brain. However, the biophysical
origin of T₂ contrast, especially in white matter, remains poorly understood.
Recent work has shown that R₂ (=1/T₂) may depend on the tissue's orientation
relative to the static magnetic field (B(0)) and suggested that this dependence
could be attributed to local anisotropy in the magnetic properties of brain
tissue. In the present work, we analyzed high-resolution, multi-gradient-echo
images of in vivo marmoset brains at 7T, and compared them with ex vivo diffusion
tensor images, to show that R₂ relaxation in white matter is highly sensitive to 
the fiber orientation relative to the main field. We directly demonstrate this
orientation dependence by performing in vivo multi-gradient-echo experiments in
two orthogonal brain positions, uncovering a nearly 50% change in the R₂
relaxation rate constant of the optic radiations. We attribute this substantial
R₂ anisotropy to local subvoxel susceptibility effects arising from the highly
ordered and anisotropic structure of the myelin sheath.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.08.064 
PMCID: PMC3230780
PMID: 21906687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1833. Microsc Res Tech. 2012 Mar;75(3):282-4. doi: 10.1002/jemt.21055. Epub 2011 Sep 2.

Ultrastructural aspects of Callithrix penicillata lingual papillae.

Branco E(1), Pereira WL, De Lima AR, Franciolli AL, Rici RE, Miglino MA, Muniz
JA, Imbeloni A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Health and Production-ISPA Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Federal Rural University of Amazonia, Belem, Brazil. ebranco.ufra@gmail.com

Callithrix penicillata belongs to the family Callitrichidae, Callithrix genus.
They are basically insectivorous, but they consume fruits. The mucosa of the
tongue is composed of some papillary types, revealing different levels of
expertise. The present study attempted to describe the morphological and
ultrastructural aspects of the dorsal surface of the C. penicillata, describing
the characteristics and distribution of papillae found. Five tongues of C.
penicillata (two females and three males), obtained from breeding colonies of
CENP-Ananindeua-PA, died from natural causes. The material was fixed partly in a 
buffer solution paraformaldehyde 10% and partly in modified Karnovsky solution,
divided into apex, body, and root, and then the fragments were used in light
microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The average length of the tongue of 
the females was 22 mm and for males 20.5 mm. Three types of papillae were
described: filiform (along all tissue extension with 154 μm of diameter),
fungiform (along all tissue extension with 275 μm of diameter), and vallate (just
three units in caudal (dorsal) portion with 672 μm of diameter). Data analysis
indicates that the distribution and ultrastructural morphology of the C.
penicillata lingual papillae are some similar to other primates.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.21055 
PMID: 21898663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

