

1835. Infect Dis Obstet Gynecol. 2011;2011:675360. doi: 10.1155/2011/675360. Epub 2011 
Aug 17.

Nonhuman primate models used to study pelvic inflammatory disease caused by
Chlamydia trachomatis.

Bell JD(1), Bergin IL, Schmidt K, Zochowski MK, Aronoff DM, Patton DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University of Michigan, 1500 East
Medical Center Drive, L4510, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. jasonbel@umich.edu

Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is a global health concern that is associated
with significant morbidity and is a major cause of infertility. Throughout
history animals have been used for anatomical studies and later as models of
human disease. In particular, nonhuman primates (NHPs) have permitted
investigations of human disease in a biologically, physiologically, and
anatomically similar system. The use of NHPs as human PID models has led to a
greater understanding of the primary microorganisms that cause disease (e.g.,
Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorroheae), the pathogenesis of infection
and its complications, and the treatment of people with PID. This paper explores 
historical and contemporary aspects of NHP modeling of chlamydial PID, with an
emphasis on advantages and limitations of this approach and future directions for
this research.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/675360 
PMCID: PMC3160047
PMID: 21869858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1836. PLoS One. 2011;6(8):e22990. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022990. Epub 2011 Aug 9.

Structural basis for species specific inhibition of 17β-hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase type 1 (17β-HSD1): computational study and biological validation.

Klein T(1), Henn C, Negri M, Frotscher M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Saarland University, Saarbrücken,
Germany.

17β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (17β-HSD1) catalyzes the reduction of
estrone to estradiol, which is the most potent estrogen in humans. Inhibition of 
17β-HSD1 and thereby reducing the intracellular estradiol concentration is thus a
promising approach for the treatment of estrogen dependent diseases. In the past,
several steroidal and non-steroidal inhibitors of 17β-HSD1 have been described
but so far there is no cocrystal structure of the latter in complex with
17β-HSD1. However, a distinct knowledge of active site topologies and
protein-ligand interactions is a prerequisite for structure-based drug design and
optimization. An elegant strategy to enhance this knowledge is to compare
inhibition values obtained for one compound toward ortholog proteins from various
species, which are highly conserved in sequence and differ only in few residues. 
In this study the inhibitory potencies of selected members of different
non-steroidal inhibitor classes toward marmoset 17β-HSD1 were determined and the 
data were compared with the values obtained for the human enzyme. A species
specific inhibition profile was observed in the class of the
(hydroxyphenyl)naphthols. Using a combination of computational methods, including
homology modelling, molecular docking, MD simulation, and binding energy
calculation, a reasonable model of the three-dimensional structure of marmoset
17β-HSD1 was developed and inhibition data were rationalized on the structural
basis. In marmoset 17β-HSD1, residues 190 to 196 form a small α-helix, which
induces conformational changes compared to the human enzyme. The docking poses
suggest these conformational changes as determinants for species specificity and 
energy decomposition analysis highlighted the outstanding role of Asn152 as
interaction partner for inhibitor binding. In summary, this strategy of comparing
the biological activities of inhibitors toward highly conserved ortholog proteins
might be an alternative to laborious x-ray or site-directed mutagenesis
experiments in certain cases. Additionally, it facilitates inhibitor design and
optimization by offering new information on protein-ligand interactions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022990 
PMCID: PMC3153478
PMID: 21857977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

