

1836. PLoS One. 2011;6(8):e22990. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022990. Epub 2011 Aug 9.

Structural basis for species specific inhibition of 17β-hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase type 1 (17β-HSD1): computational study and biological validation.

Klein T(1), Henn C, Negri M, Frotscher M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Medicinal Chemistry, Saarland University, Saarbrücken,
Germany.

17β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (17β-HSD1) catalyzes the reduction of
estrone to estradiol, which is the most potent estrogen in humans. Inhibition of 
17β-HSD1 and thereby reducing the intracellular estradiol concentration is thus a
promising approach for the treatment of estrogen dependent diseases. In the past,
several steroidal and non-steroidal inhibitors of 17β-HSD1 have been described
but so far there is no cocrystal structure of the latter in complex with
17β-HSD1. However, a distinct knowledge of active site topologies and
protein-ligand interactions is a prerequisite for structure-based drug design and
optimization. An elegant strategy to enhance this knowledge is to compare
inhibition values obtained for one compound toward ortholog proteins from various
species, which are highly conserved in sequence and differ only in few residues. 
In this study the inhibitory potencies of selected members of different
non-steroidal inhibitor classes toward marmoset 17β-HSD1 were determined and the 
data were compared with the values obtained for the human enzyme. A species
specific inhibition profile was observed in the class of the
(hydroxyphenyl)naphthols. Using a combination of computational methods, including
homology modelling, molecular docking, MD simulation, and binding energy
calculation, a reasonable model of the three-dimensional structure of marmoset
17β-HSD1 was developed and inhibition data were rationalized on the structural
basis. In marmoset 17β-HSD1, residues 190 to 196 form a small α-helix, which
induces conformational changes compared to the human enzyme. The docking poses
suggest these conformational changes as determinants for species specificity and 
energy decomposition analysis highlighted the outstanding role of Asn152 as
interaction partner for inhibitor binding. In summary, this strategy of comparing
the biological activities of inhibitors toward highly conserved ortholog proteins
might be an alternative to laborious x-ray or site-directed mutagenesis
experiments in certain cases. Additionally, it facilitates inhibitor design and
optimization by offering new information on protein-ligand interactions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0022990 
PMCID: PMC3153478
PMID: 21857977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1837. Eur J Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(6):1006-17. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07813.x.
Epub 2011 Aug 16.

Contribution of the amygdala, but not orbitofrontal or medial prefrontal
cortices, to the expression of flavour preferences in marmoset monkeys.

Agustín-Pavón C(1), Parkinson J, Man MS, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.

The development of food preferences contributes to a balanced diet, and involves 
both innate and learnt factors. By associating flavour cues with the reinforcing 
properties of the food (i.e. postingestive nutrient cues and innately preferred
tastes, such as sweetness), animals acquire individual preferences. How the brain
codes and guides selection when the subject has to choose between different
palatable foods is little understood. To investigate this issue, we trained
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) to respond to abstract visual
patterns on a touch-sensitive computer screen to gain access to four different
flavoured juices. After preferences were stable, animals received excitotoxic
lesions of either the amygdala, the orbitofrontal cortex or the medial prefrontal
cortex. Neither the orbitofrontal nor the medial prefrontal cortex lesions
affected pre-surgery-expressed flavour preferences or the expression of
preferences for novel flavours post-surgery. In contrast, amygdala lesions caused
a shift in the preferences for juices expressed pre-surgery such that,
post-surgery, juices were chosen according to their overall carbohydrate (simple 
sugars) content or 'sweetness'. Subsequent tests revealed that amygdala-lesioned 
animals only expressed juice preferences if they differed in 'sweetness'. Unlike 
controls, orbitofrontal cortex-lesioned and medial prefrontal cortex-lesioned
animals, they were unable to display preferences between juices matched for
'sweetness' i.e. 5% sucrose solutions aromatised with different essential oils.
The most parsimonious explanation is that the amygdala contributes to the
expression of food preferences based on learnt cues but not those based on an
innate preference for sweetness.

© 2011 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2011 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07813.x 
PMID: 21848920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

