

1837. Eur J Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(6):1006-17. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07813.x.
Epub 2011 Aug 16.

Contribution of the amygdala, but not orbitofrontal or medial prefrontal
cortices, to the expression of flavour preferences in marmoset monkeys.

Agustín-Pavón C(1), Parkinson J, Man MS, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.

The development of food preferences contributes to a balanced diet, and involves 
both innate and learnt factors. By associating flavour cues with the reinforcing 
properties of the food (i.e. postingestive nutrient cues and innately preferred
tastes, such as sweetness), animals acquire individual preferences. How the brain
codes and guides selection when the subject has to choose between different
palatable foods is little understood. To investigate this issue, we trained
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) to respond to abstract visual
patterns on a touch-sensitive computer screen to gain access to four different
flavoured juices. After preferences were stable, animals received excitotoxic
lesions of either the amygdala, the orbitofrontal cortex or the medial prefrontal
cortex. Neither the orbitofrontal nor the medial prefrontal cortex lesions
affected pre-surgery-expressed flavour preferences or the expression of
preferences for novel flavours post-surgery. In contrast, amygdala lesions caused
a shift in the preferences for juices expressed pre-surgery such that,
post-surgery, juices were chosen according to their overall carbohydrate (simple 
sugars) content or 'sweetness'. Subsequent tests revealed that amygdala-lesioned 
animals only expressed juice preferences if they differed in 'sweetness'. Unlike 
controls, orbitofrontal cortex-lesioned and medial prefrontal cortex-lesioned
animals, they were unable to display preferences between juices matched for
'sweetness' i.e. 5% sucrose solutions aromatised with different essential oils.
The most parsimonious explanation is that the amygdala contributes to the
expression of food preferences based on learnt cues but not those based on an
innate preference for sweetness.

© 2011 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2011 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07813.x 
PMID: 21848920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1838. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 Aug 30;108(35):14659-63. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1108004108. Epub 2011 Aug 15.

Slow intrinsic rhythm in the koniocellular visual pathway.

Cheong SK(1), Tailby C, Martin PR, Levitt JB, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence in Vision Science and Save
Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2001, Australia.

Slow rhythmic changes in nerve-cell activity are characteristic of unconscious
brain states and also may contribute to waking brain function by coordinating
activity between cortical and subcortical structures. Here we show that slow
rhythms are exhibited by the koniocellular (K) pathway, one of three visual
pathways beginning in the eye and projecting through the lateral geniculate
visual relay nucleus to the cerebral cortex. We recorded activity in pairs and
ensembles of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of anesthetized marmoset
monkeys. We found slow rhythms are common in K cells but are rare in
parvocellular and magnocellular cell pairs. The time course of slow K rhythms
corresponds to subbeta (<10 Hz) EEG frequencies, and high spike rates in K cells 
are associated with low power in the theta and delta EEG bands. By contrast,
spontaneous activity in the parvocellular and magnocellular pathways is neither
synchronized nor strongly linked to EEG state. These observations suggest that
parallel visual pathways not only carry different kinds of visual signals but
also contribute differentially to brain circuits at the first synapse in the
thalamus. Differential contribution of sensory streams to rhythmic brain circuits
also raises the possibility that sensory stimuli can be tailored to modify brain 
rhythms.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1108004108 
PMCID: PMC3167552
PMID: 21844334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

