

1838. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 Aug 30;108(35):14659-63. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1108004108. Epub 2011 Aug 15.

Slow intrinsic rhythm in the koniocellular visual pathway.

Cheong SK(1), Tailby C, Martin PR, Levitt JB, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence in Vision Science and Save
Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2001, Australia.

Slow rhythmic changes in nerve-cell activity are characteristic of unconscious
brain states and also may contribute to waking brain function by coordinating
activity between cortical and subcortical structures. Here we show that slow
rhythms are exhibited by the koniocellular (K) pathway, one of three visual
pathways beginning in the eye and projecting through the lateral geniculate
visual relay nucleus to the cerebral cortex. We recorded activity in pairs and
ensembles of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of anesthetized marmoset
monkeys. We found slow rhythms are common in K cells but are rare in
parvocellular and magnocellular cell pairs. The time course of slow K rhythms
corresponds to subbeta (<10 Hz) EEG frequencies, and high spike rates in K cells 
are associated with low power in the theta and delta EEG bands. By contrast,
spontaneous activity in the parvocellular and magnocellular pathways is neither
synchronized nor strongly linked to EEG state. These observations suggest that
parallel visual pathways not only carry different kinds of visual signals but
also contribute differentially to brain circuits at the first synapse in the
thalamus. Differential contribution of sensory streams to rhythmic brain circuits
also raises the possibility that sensory stimuli can be tailored to modify brain 
rhythms.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1108004108 
PMCID: PMC3167552
PMID: 21844334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1839. J Neurosci Methods. 2011 Sep 30;201(1):159-72. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.07.029. Epub 2011 Aug 6.

Multimodal vessel mapping for precise large area alignment of functional optical 
imaging data to neuroanatomical preparations in marmosets.

Valverde Salzmann MF(1), Wallace DJ, Logothetis NK, Schüz A.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, Spemannstrasse 38, 72076
Tübingen, Germany. matthias.valverde@tuebingen.mpg.de

Imaging technologies, such as intrinsic optical imaging (IOI), functional
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) or multiphoton microscopy provide excellent
opportunities to study the relationship between functional signals recorded from 
a cortical area and the underlying anatomical structure. This, in turn, requires 
accurate alignment of the recorded functional imaging data with histological
datasets from the imaged tissue obtained after the functional experiment. This
alignment is complicated by distortions of the tissue which naturally occur
during histological treatment, and is particularly difficult to achieve over
large cortical areas, such as primate visual areas. We present here a method that
uses IOI vessel maps revealed in the time course of the intrinsic signal, in
combination with vascular casts and vascular lumen labeling techniques together
with a pseudo three dimensional (p3D) reconstruction of the tissue architecture
in order to facilitate alignment of IOI data with posthoc histological datasets. 
We demonstrate that by such a multimodal vessel mapping approach, we are able to 
constitute a hook in anatomical-functional data alignment that enables the
accurate assignment of functional signals over large cortical regions. As an
example, we present precise alignments of IOI responses showing orientation
selectivity of primate V1 with anatomical sections stained for
cytochrome-oxidase-reactivity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.07.029 
PMID: 21843550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

