

1839. J Neurosci Methods. 2011 Sep 30;201(1):159-72. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.07.029. Epub 2011 Aug 6.

Multimodal vessel mapping for precise large area alignment of functional optical 
imaging data to neuroanatomical preparations in marmosets.

Valverde Salzmann MF(1), Wallace DJ, Logothetis NK, Schüz A.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, Spemannstrasse 38, 72076
Tübingen, Germany. matthias.valverde@tuebingen.mpg.de

Imaging technologies, such as intrinsic optical imaging (IOI), functional
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) or multiphoton microscopy provide excellent
opportunities to study the relationship between functional signals recorded from 
a cortical area and the underlying anatomical structure. This, in turn, requires 
accurate alignment of the recorded functional imaging data with histological
datasets from the imaged tissue obtained after the functional experiment. This
alignment is complicated by distortions of the tissue which naturally occur
during histological treatment, and is particularly difficult to achieve over
large cortical areas, such as primate visual areas. We present here a method that
uses IOI vessel maps revealed in the time course of the intrinsic signal, in
combination with vascular casts and vascular lumen labeling techniques together
with a pseudo three dimensional (p3D) reconstruction of the tissue architecture
in order to facilitate alignment of IOI data with posthoc histological datasets. 
We demonstrate that by such a multimodal vessel mapping approach, we are able to 
constitute a hook in anatomical-functional data alignment that enables the
accurate assignment of functional signals over large cortical regions. As an
example, we present precise alignments of IOI responses showing orientation
selectivity of primate V1 with anatomical sections stained for
cytochrome-oxidase-reactivity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.07.029 
PMID: 21843550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1840. J Mol Endocrinol. 2011 Oct 24;47(3):285-98. doi: 10.1530/JME-11-0026. Print 2011 
Dec.

A novel two-promoter-one-gene system of the chorionic gonadotropin β gene enables
tissue-specific expression.

Adams C(1), Henke A, Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproduction and
Andrology, University Hospital Münster, Domagkstrasse 11, 48129 Münster, Germany.

The New World monkey (NWM), Callithrix jacchus, a preferred model in medical
research, displays an interesting endocrine regulation of reproduction: LH, the
heterodimeric glycoprotein hormone, is functionally replaced by the chorionic
gonadotropin (CG), a hormone indispensable for establishment of pregnancy in
humans and normally expressed in the placenta. In the marmoset pituitary, the
expression of the β-subunit (CGB) gene is regulated similar to human LH
β-subunit, but its placental regulation is unknown. This study intended to
decipher the underlying mechanism of tissue-specific expression of CGB in the
marmoset placenta. We identified a new placental transcriptional start site,
described a new, previously undiscovered exon, and define a novel placental core 
promoter in the marmoset CGB gene. This promoter contains a TATA box and binding 
sites for activating protein 2 and selective promoter factor 1, the latter acting
synergistically by forming a regulation cassette. Differential first exon usage
directed the tissue-specific expression. Methylation analyses revealed a
tissue-specific pattern in the placental promoter indicating additional
epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Our findings point toward a hitherto
unknown evolutionary plasticity in the LH/CG hormonal system in NWM, which could 
be used as a model to study human CGB regulation in clinical pathologies.

© 2011 Society for Endocrinology

DOI: 10.1530/JME-11-0026 
PMID: 21821715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

