

184. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2021 Jan 28;10:621635. doi:
10.3389/fcimb.2020.621635. eCollection 2020.

A Novel Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Model of Human Inhalational Q Fever.

Nelson M(1), Salguero FJ(2), Hunter L(2), Atkins TP(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Salisbury,
United Kingdom.
(2)Public Health England, Salisbury, United Kingdom.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were shown to be susceptible to
inhalational infection with Coxiella burnetii, in a dose-dependent manner,
producing a disease similar to human Q fever, characterized by a resolving
febrile response. Illness was also associated with weight loss, liver enzyme
dysfunction, characteristic cellular activation, circulating INF-γ and
bacteraemia. Viable C. burnetii was recovered from various tissues during disease
and from 75% of the animal's lungs on 28 days post challenge, when there were no 
overt clinical features of disease but there was histological evidence of
macrophage and lymphocyte infiltration into the lung resulting in granulomatous
alveolitis. Taken together, these features of disease progression, physiology and
bacterial spread appear to be consistent with human disease and therefore the
common marmoset can be considered as a suitable model for studies on the
pathogenesis or the development of medical counter measures of inhalational Q
fever.

Crown Copyright © 2021 Dstl. Authors: Nelson, Salguero, Hunter and Atkins.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.621635 
PMCID: PMC7876459
PMID: 33585288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


185. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2021 Jun;68:76-83. doi: 10.1016/j.conb.2021.01.005. Epub
2021 Feb 7.

From the field to the lab and back: neuroethology of primate social behavior.

Testard C(1), Tremblay S(2), Platt M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Electronic address:
Camille.Testard@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Psychology Department, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Marketing Department, The Wharton
School of Business, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Social mammals with more numerous and stronger social relationships live longer, 
healthier lives. Despite the established importance of social relationships, our 
understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms by which they are pursued,
formed, and maintained in primates remains largely confined to highly controlled 
laboratory settings which do not allow natural, dynamic social interactions to
unfold. In this review, we argue that the neurobiological study of primate social
behavior would benefit from adopting a neuroethological approach, that is, a
perspective grounded in natural, species-typical behavior, with careful selection
of animal models according to the scientific question at hand. We highlight
macaques and marmosets as key animal models for human social behavior and
summarize recent findings in the social domain for both species. We then review
pioneering studies of dynamic social behaviors in small animals, which can
inspire studies in larger primates where the technological landscape is now ripe 
for an ethological overhaul.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.conb.2021.01.005 
PMCID: PMC8243779 [Available on 2022-06-01]
PMID: 33567386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

