

1841. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2011 Nov 1;174(2):71-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.07.004.
Epub 2011 Jul 29.

Ultrastructural analysis, zinc transporters, glucose transporters and hormones
expression in New world primate (Callithrix jacchus) and human pancreatic islets.

Mohanasundaram D(1), Drogemuller C, Brealey J, Jessup CF, Milner C, Murgia C,
Lang CJ, Milton A, Zalewski PD, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Central Northern Adelaide Renal and Transplantation Services, South Australian
and Northern Territory Islet Program and Australian Islet Consortium, Royal
Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, Australia.

The New world primates (NWP) Callithrix jacchus separated from man approximately 
50 million years ago and is a potential alternative small non-human primate model
for diabetes research. Ultrastructure, and gene expression of pancreatic islets
and the recently described diabetes auto antigenic zinc transporters families in 
human, NWP and pig pancreas were studied. Morphologically NWP islets were larger 
than pig islets and similar in size to human islets. NWP islets alpha cells had
high dense core surrounded by a limiting membrane, beta cells by the mixed
morphology of the granule core, and delta cells by moderate opaque core. Antibody
staining for insulin, glucagon, somatostatin and Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
showed that the distribution pattern of the different cell types within islets
was comparable to pig and human islets. In all three species protein expression
of zinc transporter ZnT8 was detected in most of the insulin producing beta cells
whereas Zip14 expression was widely expressed in alpha and beta cells. In both
human and NWP little or no expression of Glut2 was observed compared to Glut1 and
glucokinase at the protein level, however the messenger RNA level of Glut2 was
greater than Glut1 and glucokinase. In contrast all three glucose transporters
were expressed in pig islets at the protein level. The expression of Zip14 in
islets is reported for the first time. In conclusion NWP pancreatic islets
express comparable islet cell types and distribution to humans and pigs.
Importantly, marmosets have a similar glucose transporter profile to humans,
making this non-endangered primate species a useful animal model for pancreatic
biology.

Crown Copyright Â© 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.07.004 
PMID: 21821034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1842. Comp Med. 2011 Jun;61(3):278-84.

Colonization with nontuberculous mycobacteria is associated with positive
tuberculin skin test reactions in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wachtman LM(1), Miller AD, Xia D, Curran EH, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA. Lynn_wachtman@hms.harvard.edu

Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections can result in significant morbidity and
mortality in nonhuman primate colonies. Preventative health programs designed to 
detect infection routinely include tuberculin skin testing (TST). Because
Mammalian Old Tuberculin used for TST contains antigens common to a variety of
mycobacterial species, false-positive results can occur in animals sensitized to 
nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM). Over 11 mo, a large colony of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) demonstrated a 3.6% prevalence of equivocal or positive TST 
reactions (termed 'suspect reactions'). Culture of gastric aspirates,
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and feces revealed a single animal with a positive 
fecal culture for Mycobacterium gordonae. PCR amplification of M. gordonae DNA in
feces collected from animals with suspect TST reactions (demonstrating a 66.7%
colonization rate) and colony controls (demonstrating a 14.3% colonization rate) 
revealed a significant association between suspect TST reactions and intestinal
colonization. Gross and histopathologic evaluation revealed a multifocal
lymphadenopathy and granulomatous lymphadenitis in 2 of 4 TST-positive marmosets 
examined. Counter to expectations, granulomatous lymphoid tissue was
culture-positive for M. kansasii rather than M. gordonae. Detection of M.
gordonae in the feces of TST-suspect animals likely represents an apathogenic
intestinal colonization that may serve as an indicator of NTM exposure, whereas
evidence of histopathologic disease is associated with the more pathogenic M.
kansasii. Although a high index of suspicion for M. tuberculosis should always be
maintained, colonization with NTM organisms represents a cause of suspect TST
reactions in common marmosets.

Copyright 2011 by the American Association for Laboratory Animal Science


PMCID: PMC3123762
PMID: 21819699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

