

1843. Sleep. 2011 Aug 1;34(8):1119-25. doi: 10.5665/SLEEP.1174.

REM sleep behavior disorder in the marmoset MPTP model of early Parkinson
disease.

Verhave PS(1), Jongsma MJ, Van den Berg RM, Vis JC, Vanwersch RA, Smit AB, Van
Someren EJ, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)BU CBRN Protection, TNO Defence, Security and Safety, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. nellekeverhave@gmail.com

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Sleep problems are a common phenomenon in most neurological and
psychiatric diseases. In Parkinson disease (PD), for instance, sleep problems may
be the most common and burdensome non-motor symptoms in addition to the
well-described classical motor symptoms. Since sleep disturbances generally
become apparent in the disease before motor symptoms emerge, they may represent
early diagnostic tools and a means to investigate early mechanisms in PD onset.
The sleep disturbance, REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), precedes PD in
one-third of patients. We therefore investigated sleep changes in marmoset
monkeys treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride
(MPTP), the non-human primate model for idiopathic PD.
DESIGN: Mild parkinsonism was induced in 5 marmoset monkeys (3M/2F) over a 2-week
period of subchronic MPTP treatment. Electroencephalograms (EEGs) and
electromyograms (EMGs) were recorded weekly. Motor activity and hand-eye
coordination were also measured weekly, and any signs of parkinsonism were noted 
each day. Sleep parameters, motor activity, and performance data before and after
MPTP treatment were compared between MPTP-treated marmosets and 4 control
marmosets (1M/3F).
RESULTS: MPTP increased the number of sleep epochs with high-amplitude EMG bouts 
during REM sleep relative to control animals (mean ± SEM percentage of REM 58.2 ±
9.3 vs. 29.6 ± 7.7; P < 0.05). Of all sleep parameters measured, RBD-like
measures discriminated best between MPTP-treated and control animals. On the
other hand, functional motor behavior, as measured by hand-eye coordination, was 
not affected by MPTP treatment (correct trials MPTP: 23.40 ± 3.56 vs. control:
36.13 ± 5.88 correct trials; P = 0.32).
CONCLUSIONS: This REM sleep-specific change, in the absence of profound changes
in wake motor behaviors, suggests that the MPTP marmoset model of PD could be
used for further studies into the mechanisms and treatment of RBD and other sleep
disorders in premotor symptom PD.

DOI: 10.5665/SLEEP.1174 
PMCID: PMC3138167
PMID: 21804674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1844. Neurosci Res. 2011 Nov;71(3):260-5. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2011.07.1822. Epub 2011
Jul 23.

Decision making and risk attitude of the common marmoset in a gambling task.

Tokuno H(1), Tanaka I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan. tokuno-hr@igakuken.or.jp

To analyze decision making under uncertainty of monkeys, common marmosets were
trained to choose and remove one of two colored caps on wells arranged side by
side. Each well contained constant reward (3 grains of puffed rice) or risky
reward (0 or 6 grains; probability, 50%:50%). For each marmoset, white or black
color was assigned randomly as a symbol of non-risky or risky choice. Arrangement
of white and black caps was determined randomly in each trial. After 200 trials
(5 trials per day), the marmosets were classified according to the pattern of
their choice. Eight of 18 marmosets (44.4%) were risk-aversive, whereas 5
marmosets (27.8%) were risk-prone. The remaining 5 marmosets (27.8%) preferred to
choose one side (left n=4, right n=1). These results showed individual
differences in decision making of marmosets. An additional task with reduction in
the expected value of the preferred choice revealed that risk-aversive marmosets 
were slower to adjust their choices to such reductions than risk-prone animals.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2011.07.1822 
PMID: 21802456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

