

1846. Hear Res. 2011 Dec;282(1-2):265-71. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2011.07.004. Epub 2011 
Jul 27.

Reliability of distortion-product otoacoustic emissions in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Valero MD(1), Ratnam R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Texas at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX
78249, USA. michelle.valero@utsa.edu

This study examines the test-retest reliability of distortion-product otoacoustic
emissions (DPOAEs) in ketamine-anesthetized common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). DPOAE gain functions were measured at 16 f(2)-frequencies between 3 and
24 kHz. Test-retest reliability was assessed at the following time intervals: (1)
Interleaved, in which two gain functions were obtained at each frequency before
advancing to the next frequency, (2) Immediate, wherein one gain function was
collected at all f(2)-frequencies and the retest was immediately performed
without removing the probe tip, (3) Short-term, in which the retest followed a
10-min period with the probe removed, and (4) Long-term, wherein the retest was
performed at least one week after the initial test. Reliability was assessed
using four correlation coefficients used in the literature. Test-retest
reliability was best in the interleaved interval and worst in the short-term
interval. In general, reliability was best when primary-tone levels were high.
Correlation coefficients decreased at frequencies above 12-kHz in the short-term 
and long-term intervals, but the decrease was more substantial in females than in
males in the long-term interval. At frequencies below 12 kHz, same-day
measurements (2, 3) were less repeatable, regardless of whether the probe was
removed, which may be due to time under anesthesia. These results have
implications for DPOAE studies where repeated measures are required and when
treatment or group differences are small.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2011.07.004 
PMCID: PMC3445414
PMID: 21801824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1847. Exp Anim. 2011;60(4):417-20.

Sex identification using the ZFX and ZFY genes in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Takabayashi S(1), Katoh H.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Animals Institute, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine.
1–20–1 Handayama, Higashi-ku, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka 431-3192, Japan.

We investigated sex determination via the ZFX and ZFY genes using PCR-RFLP in the
common marmoset. We designed a novel primer set to detect ZFX and ZFY. A 483-bp
band from the ZFX gene and a 471-bp band from the ZFY gene were amplified.
Sequencing data of the products amplified from ZFX and ZFY showed the recognition
sites of two restriction enzymes, DdeI and MseI, respectively. After digestion of
the products using each enzyme, we found that the band patterns between females
and males were different. PCR-based sex identification might provide a tool for
further breeding studies and experimental embryological studies using marmosets.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.60.417 
PMID: 21791881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

