

1847. Exp Anim. 2011;60(4):417-20.

Sex identification using the ZFX and ZFY genes in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Takabayashi S(1), Katoh H.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Animals Institute, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine.
1–20–1 Handayama, Higashi-ku, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka 431-3192, Japan.

We investigated sex determination via the ZFX and ZFY genes using PCR-RFLP in the
common marmoset. We designed a novel primer set to detect ZFX and ZFY. A 483-bp
band from the ZFX gene and a 471-bp band from the ZFY gene were amplified.
Sequencing data of the products amplified from ZFX and ZFY showed the recognition
sites of two restriction enzymes, DdeI and MseI, respectively. After digestion of
the products using each enzyme, we found that the band patterns between females
and males were different. PCR-based sex identification might provide a tool for
further breeding studies and experimental embryological studies using marmosets.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.60.417 
PMID: 21791881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1848. J Comp Pathol. 2012 Feb-Apr;146(2-3):230-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2011.06.003.
Epub 2011 Jul 23.

The pathology of experimental poxvirus infection in common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus): further characterization of a new primate model for orthopoxvirus
infections.

Mätz-Rensing K(1), Stahl-Hennig C, Kramski M, Pauli G, Ellerbrok H, Kaup FJ.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center (DPZ), Göttingen, Germany. kmaetz@gwdg.de

Zoonotic orthopoxvirus (OPV) can induce severe disease in man and the virus has
potential for use in bioterrorism. New vaccines and therapeutics against OPV
infections must be tested in animal models. The aim of this study was to
characterize the clinical course and pathology of a new OPV isolate, calpox
virus, which is infectious in marmosets. Infection experiments were performed
with 28 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) exposed to different challenge
doses of calpox virus by the intravenous, oropharyngeal and intranasal (IN)
routes. The median marmoset IN infectious dose corresponded to 8.3 × 10(2)plaque 
forming units of calpox virus. Infected animals developed reproducible clinical
signs and died within 4-15 days post infection. Characteristic pox-like lesions
developed in affected organs, particularly in the skin, mucous membranes, lymph
nodes, liver and spleen. Calpox virus disease progression and pathological
findings in the common marmoset appear to be consistent with lethal OPV
infections in man and in other non-human primate (NHP) models. IN inoculation
with low virus doses mimics the natural route of the human variola virus
infection. Thus, the marmoset model of calpox virus infection can be considered
to be relevant to investigation of the mechanisms of OPV pathogenesis and
pathology and for the evaluation of new vaccines and antiviral therapies.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2011.06.003 
PMID: 21783202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

