

1848. J Comp Pathol. 2012 Feb-Apr;146(2-3):230-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2011.06.003.
Epub 2011 Jul 23.

The pathology of experimental poxvirus infection in common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus): further characterization of a new primate model for orthopoxvirus
infections.

Mätz-Rensing K(1), Stahl-Hennig C, Kramski M, Pauli G, Ellerbrok H, Kaup FJ.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center (DPZ), Göttingen, Germany. kmaetz@gwdg.de

Zoonotic orthopoxvirus (OPV) can induce severe disease in man and the virus has
potential for use in bioterrorism. New vaccines and therapeutics against OPV
infections must be tested in animal models. The aim of this study was to
characterize the clinical course and pathology of a new OPV isolate, calpox
virus, which is infectious in marmosets. Infection experiments were performed
with 28 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) exposed to different challenge
doses of calpox virus by the intravenous, oropharyngeal and intranasal (IN)
routes. The median marmoset IN infectious dose corresponded to 8.3 × 10(2)plaque 
forming units of calpox virus. Infected animals developed reproducible clinical
signs and died within 4-15 days post infection. Characteristic pox-like lesions
developed in affected organs, particularly in the skin, mucous membranes, lymph
nodes, liver and spleen. Calpox virus disease progression and pathological
findings in the common marmoset appear to be consistent with lethal OPV
infections in man and in other non-human primate (NHP) models. IN inoculation
with low virus doses mimics the natural route of the human variola virus
infection. Thus, the marmoset model of calpox virus infection can be considered
to be relevant to investigation of the mechanisms of OPV pathogenesis and
pathology and for the evaluation of new vaccines and antiviral therapies.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2011.06.003 
PMID: 21783202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1849. Neuroscience. 2011 Oct 13;193:249-58. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2011.06.080.
Epub 2011 Jul 18.

Local and retrograde gene transfer into primate neuronal pathways via
adeno-associated virus serotype 8 and 9.

Masamizu Y(1), Okada T, Kawasaki K, Ishibashi H, Yuasa S, Takeda S, Hasegawa I,
Nakahara K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, NCNP, 4-1-1
Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

Viral vector-mediated gene transfer has become increasingly valuable for primate 
brain research, in particular for application of genetic methods (e.g.
optogenetics) to study neuronal circuit functions. Neuronal cell tropisms and
infection patterns are viable options for obtaining viral vector-mediated
transgene delivery that is selective for particular neuronal pathways. For
example, several types of viral vectors can infect axon terminals (retrograde
infections), which enables targeted transgene delivery to neurons that directly
project to a particular viral injection region. Although recent studies in
rodents have demonstrated that adeno-associated virus serotype 8 (AAV8) and 9
(AAV9) efficiently transduce neurons, the tropisms and infection patterns remain 
poorly understood in primate brains. Here, we constructed recombinant AAV8 or
AAV9, which expressed an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene driven by
a ubiquitous promoter (AAV8-EGFP and AAV9-EGFP, respectively), and
stereotaxically injected it into several brain regions in marmosets and macaque
monkeys. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed almost exclusive colocalization of
EGFP fluorescence via AAV9-mediated gene transfer with a neuron-specific marker, 
indicating endogenous neuronal tropism of AAV9, which was consistent with our
previous results utilizing AAV8. Injections of either AAV8-EGFP or AAV9-EGFP into
the marmoset striatum resulted in EGFP expression in local striatal neurons as a 
result of local infection, as well as expression in dopaminergic neurons of the
substantia nigra via retrograde transport along nigrostriatal axonal projections.
Retrograde infections were also observed in the frontal cortex and thalamus,
which are known to have direct projections to the striatum. These local and
retrograde gene transfers were further demonstrated in the geniculocortical
pathway of the marmoset visual system. These findings indicate promising
capabilities of AAV8 and AAV9 to deliver molecular tools into a range of primate 
neural systems in pathway-specific manners through their neuronal tropisms and
infection patterns.

Copyright © 2011 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2011.06.080 
PMID: 21782903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

