

185. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2021 Jun;68:76-83. doi: 10.1016/j.conb.2021.01.005. Epub
2021 Feb 7.

From the field to the lab and back: neuroethology of primate social behavior.

Testard C(1), Tremblay S(2), Platt M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Electronic address:
Camille.Testard@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Psychology Department, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Marketing Department, The Wharton
School of Business, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Social mammals with more numerous and stronger social relationships live longer, 
healthier lives. Despite the established importance of social relationships, our 
understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms by which they are pursued,
formed, and maintained in primates remains largely confined to highly controlled 
laboratory settings which do not allow natural, dynamic social interactions to
unfold. In this review, we argue that the neurobiological study of primate social
behavior would benefit from adopting a neuroethological approach, that is, a
perspective grounded in natural, species-typical behavior, with careful selection
of animal models according to the scientific question at hand. We highlight
macaques and marmosets as key animal models for human social behavior and
summarize recent findings in the social domain for both species. We then review
pioneering studies of dynamic social behaviors in small animals, which can
inspire studies in larger primates where the technological landscape is now ripe 
for an ethological overhaul.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.conb.2021.01.005 
PMCID: PMC8243779 [Available on 2022-06-01]
PMID: 33567386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. J Comp Neurol. 2021 Jul 1;529(10):2727-2749. doi: 10.1002/cne.25120. Epub 2021
Feb 5.

Identification of retinal ganglion cell types expressing the transcription factor
Satb2 in three primate species.

Nasir-Ahmad S(1)(2), Lee SCS(1)(2), Martin PR(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health, Save Sight Institute and Discipline of
Ophthalmology, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

In primates, the retinal ganglion cells contributing to high acuity spatial
vision (midget cells and parasol cells), and blue-yellow color vision (small
bistratified cells) are well understood. Many other ganglion cell types with
large dendritic fields (named wide-field ganglion cells) have been identified,
but their spatial density and distribution are largely unknown. Here we took
advantage of the recently established molecular diversity of ganglion cells to
study wide-field ganglion cell populations in three primate species. We used
antibodies against the transcription factor Special AT-rich binding protein 2
(Satb2) to explore its expression in macaque (Macaca fascicularis, M.
nemestrina), human and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) retinas. In all three
species, Satb2 cells make up a low proportion (1.5-4%) of the ganglion cell
population, with a slight increase from central to peripheral retina.
Intracellular dye injections revealed that in macaque and human retinas, the
large majority (over 80%) of Satb2 cells are inner and outer stratifying large
sparse cells. By contrast, in marmoset retina the majority (over 60%) of Satb2
expressing cells were broad thorny cells, with smaller proportions of recursive
bistratified (putative direction-selective), large bistratified, and outer
stratifying narrow thorny cells. Our findings imply that Satb2 expression has
undergone rapid species specific adaptations during primate evolution, because
expression is not conserved across Old World (macaque, human) and New World
(marmoset) suborders.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25120 
PMID: 33527361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

