

1851. Am J Primatol. 2011 Oct;73(10):1082-92. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20976. Epub 2011 Jul 18.

Increased positive selection pressure within the complementarity determining
regions of the T-cell receptor β gene in New World monkeys.

Matsutani T(1), Fujii Y, Kitaura K, Suzuki S, Tsuruta Y, Takasaki T, Ogasawara K,
Nishimoto N, Kurane I, Suzuki R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immune Regulation, Wakayama Medical University, Osaka, Japan.

Because of the long-term co-evolution of TCR and MHC molecules, numerous
nucleotide substitutions have accumulated within the domains of TCRβ genes. We
previously found that nonsynonymous nucleotide substitutions occurred more
frequently in complementarity determining region (CDR)β than in CDRα, even though
only a limited number of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and human T-cell
receptor β variable (TRBV) sequences were compared. This interesting finding
raised the question of whether the increased selective pressure within CDRβ was
species-specific. In this study, we identified 21 TRBV region sequences from the 
common marmoset and performed comparative sequence analyses of the T-cell
receptor α variable (TRAV) and TRBV regions from human, chimpanzee, rhesus
monkey, cotton-top tamarin, Ma's night monkey, and common marmoset. The ratios of
the number of nonsynonymous nucleotide substitutions per site (d(N) ) to the d(S)
values (d(N) /d(S) ) were less than 1 within the framework regions (FRs) of TRAV 
and TRBV region sequences, suggesting that purifying selection is largely
dominant within the FRs. In contrast, the d(N) values were statistically
significantly greater for CDRβ than for CDRα only in New World monkeys. Also,
increased d(N) /d(S) ratios (d(N) /d(S) >1) were observed within CDRβ between
humans and New World monkeys and, interestingly, between New World monkeys, which
share a relatively recent common ancestor. Moreover, phylogenetic analysis by
maximum likelihood analysis provided firm evidence to support that positive
selection occurred within CDRβ along New World monkey lineages. These results
suggest that increased positive selection pressure within CDRβ is common in New
World monkeys rather than being species-specific. This study provides an
intriguing insight into the co-evolution of TCR and MHC molecules within
primates.

© 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20976 
PMID: 21769905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1852. Primates. 2011 Jul;52(3):207-9. doi: 10.1007/s10329-011-0260-8. Epub 2011 Jul 16.

Do snakes represent the principal predatory threat to callitrichids? Fatal attack
of a viper (Bothrops leucurus) on a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in the
Atlantic Forest of the Brazilian Northeast.

Ferrari SF(1), Beltrão-Mendes R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Universidade Federal de Sergipe, Av. Marechal Rondon
s/n, Jardim Rosa Elze, 49100-000, São Cristóvão, SE, Brazil. ferrari@pq.cnpq.br

A juvenile common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was attacked by a whitetail
lancehead viper (Bothrops leucurus) while playing with other group members close 
to the ground at a site in northeastern Brazil. The attack was almost immediately
fatal, but the viper was unable to ingest the body of the marmoset. After
approximately 10 min, during which it attempted to swallow the marmoset a number 
of times, the viper moved away, abandoning the body. While raptors are the
principal predators of callitrichids, this record reinforces the relative
vulnerability of these primates to snakes in comparison with other platyrrhines, 
although the small number of recorded events precludes a more definitive analysis
of the phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-011-0260-8 
PMID: 21766229  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

