

1854. Am J Primatol. 2011 Oct;73(10):1072-81. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20975. Epub 2011 Jul 11.

Female marmosets' behavioral and hormonal responses to unfamiliar intruders.

Ross CN(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health
Science Center, San Antonio, USA. rossc4@uthscsa.edu

The endocrine control mechanisms for female mammalian aggression have been
largely unstudied. Although it has been proposed that androgens may modulate
female aggressive behavior in a similar manner to males, very little conclusive
evidence exists. Previous work in male marmosets found that post-encounter
increases in testosterone (T) were dependent on the intensity of aggression
displayed during the aggressive encounter. We exposed female marmosets
(Callithrix kuhlii), a monogamous and biparental primate, to aggressive
interactions with unfamiliar intruders. Individual female marmosets exhibited
changes in T and estradiol (E(2) ) that are associated with aggressiveness
dependent on the intensity of aggression displayed as well as their role during
the encounter. Resident females exhibited increased E(2) immediately following an
encounter in which they displayed high rates of aggression. If resident females
received high rates of aggression from the intruder, the resident displayed
increased T 24 hr following the encounter. Interestingly, if the female was an
intruder in the encounter, the intensity of her aggression was associated with
increased cortisol immediately following the trials, whereas received aggression 
was associated with increased T and E(2) immediately following the trial. Female 
primates do exhibit situation-dependent changes in gonadal steroids in
association with aggression that may serve to prime them for future aggressive
interactions.

© 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20975 
PMCID: PMC6000820
PMID: 21748772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1855. Anim Cogn. 2012 Jan;15(1):97-105. doi: 10.1007/s10071-011-0436-z. Epub 2011 Jul
8.

Object permanence in adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): not everything 
is an "A-not-B" error that seems to be one.

Kis A(1), Gácsi M, Range F, Virányi Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ethology, Eötvös University, Budapest, Hungary.
kisanna12@gmail.com

In this paper, we describe a behaviour pattern similar to the "A-not-B" error
found in human infants and young apes in a monkey species, the common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). In contrast to the classical explanation, recently it has
been suggested that the "A-not-B" error committed by human infants is at least
partially due to misinterpretation of the hider's ostensively communicated object
hiding actions as potential 'teaching' demonstrations during the A trials. We
tested whether this so-called Natural Pedagogy hypothesis would account for the
A-not-B error that marmosets commit in a standard object permanence task, but
found no support for the hypothesis in this species. Alternatively, we present
evidence that lower level mechanisms, such as attention and motivation, play an
important role in committing the "A-not-B" error in marmosets. We argue that
these simple mechanisms might contribute to the effect of undeveloped object
representational skills in other species including young non-human primates that 
commit the A-not-B error.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-011-0436-z 
PMID: 21739135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

