

1855. Anim Cogn. 2012 Jan;15(1):97-105. doi: 10.1007/s10071-011-0436-z. Epub 2011 Jul
8.

Object permanence in adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): not everything 
is an "A-not-B" error that seems to be one.

Kis A(1), Gácsi M, Range F, Virányi Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ethology, Eötvös University, Budapest, Hungary.
kisanna12@gmail.com

In this paper, we describe a behaviour pattern similar to the "A-not-B" error
found in human infants and young apes in a monkey species, the common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). In contrast to the classical explanation, recently it has
been suggested that the "A-not-B" error committed by human infants is at least
partially due to misinterpretation of the hider's ostensively communicated object
hiding actions as potential 'teaching' demonstrations during the A trials. We
tested whether this so-called Natural Pedagogy hypothesis would account for the
A-not-B error that marmosets commit in a standard object permanence task, but
found no support for the hypothesis in this species. Alternatively, we present
evidence that lower level mechanisms, such as attention and motivation, play an
important role in committing the "A-not-B" error in marmosets. We argue that
these simple mechanisms might contribute to the effect of undeveloped object
representational skills in other species including young non-human primates that 
commit the A-not-B error.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-011-0436-z 
PMID: 21739135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1856. Vet Rec. 2011 Jul 23;169(4):100. doi: 10.1136/vr.d2645. Epub 2011 Jul 4.

Oxalate nephropathy in a laboratory colony of common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus) following the ingestion of Eucalyptus viminalis.

Vanselow BA(1), Pines MK, Bruhl JJ, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Industry and Investment NSW, Beef Industry Centre, University of New England, 
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. barbara.vanselow@industry.nsw.gov.au

Seven common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) from a laboratory colony of 17
died over a period of eight months. Death of six of these monkeys was attributed 
to kidney failure from an oxalate-induced nephropathy. The epidemiology of this
outbreak suggested an exogenous source and there was strong evidence that the
source was bark and leaves from an Eucalyptus viminalis tree. Branches of this
tree were introduced one month before the first death. The branches were removed 
one month after deaths commenced, but deaths continued for another five months.
Urinalysis of all surviving marmosets at 80 and 122 days after initial contact
with the E viminalis branches suggested that these monkeys had renal impairment. 
In the cases described here, the eating behaviour of common marmosets apparently 
exposed the animals to toxic levels of oxalate in the bark and leaves of an E
viminalis tree.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.d2645 
PMID: 21727186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

