

1856. Vet Rec. 2011 Jul 23;169(4):100. doi: 10.1136/vr.d2645. Epub 2011 Jul 4.

Oxalate nephropathy in a laboratory colony of common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus) following the ingestion of Eucalyptus viminalis.

Vanselow BA(1), Pines MK, Bruhl JJ, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Industry and Investment NSW, Beef Industry Centre, University of New England, 
Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. barbara.vanselow@industry.nsw.gov.au

Seven common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) from a laboratory colony of 17
died over a period of eight months. Death of six of these monkeys was attributed 
to kidney failure from an oxalate-induced nephropathy. The epidemiology of this
outbreak suggested an exogenous source and there was strong evidence that the
source was bark and leaves from an Eucalyptus viminalis tree. Branches of this
tree were introduced one month before the first death. The branches were removed 
one month after deaths commenced, but deaths continued for another five months.
Urinalysis of all surviving marmosets at 80 and 122 days after initial contact
with the E viminalis branches suggested that these monkeys had renal impairment. 
In the cases described here, the eating behaviour of common marmosets apparently 
exposed the animals to toxic levels of oxalate in the bark and leaves of an E
viminalis tree.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.d2645 
PMID: 21727186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1857. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2011 Jul 29;411(2):317-22. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.06.134. Epub 2011 Jun 25.

Colonization of collagen scaffolds by adipocytes derived from mesenchymal stem
cells of the common marmoset monkey.

Bernemann I(1), Mueller T, Blasczyk R, Glasmacher B, Hofmann N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. bernemann@imp.uni-hannover.de

In regenerative medicine, human cell replacement therapy offers great potential, 
especially by cell types differentiated from immunologically and ethically
unproblematic mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). In terms of an appropriate carrier
material, collagen scaffolds with homogeneous pore size of 65μm were optimal for 
cell seeding and cultivating. However, before clinical application and
transplantation of MSC-derived cells in scaffolds, the safety and efficiency, but
also possible interference in differentiation due to the material must be
preclinically tested. The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is a
preferable non-human primate animal model for this aim due to its genetic and
physiological similarities to the human. Marmoset bone marrow-derived MSCs were
successfully isolated, cultured and differentiated in suspension into adipogenic,
osteogenic and chondrogenic lineages by defined factors. The differentiation
capability could be determined by FACS. Specific marker genes for all three cell 
types could be detected by RT-PCR. Furthermore, MSCs seeded on collagen I
scaffolds differentiated in adipogenic lineage showed after 28days of
differentiation high cell viability and homogenous distribution on the material
which was validated by calcein AM and EthD staining. As proof of adipogenic
cells, the intracellular lipid vesicles in the cells were stained with Oil Red O.
The generation of fat vacuoles was visibly extensive distinguishable and
furthermore determined on the molecular level by expression of specific marker
genes. The results of the study proved both the differential potential of
marmoset MSCs in adipogenic, osteogenic and chondrogenic lineages and the
suitability of collagen scaffolds as carrier material undisturbing
differentiation of primate mesenchymal stem cells.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.06.134 
PMID: 21726528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

