

1858. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2012 Feb;15(1):91-105. doi:
10.1017/S1461145711000587. Epub 2011 May 9.

Serotonin at the level of the amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex modulates
distinct aspects of positive emotion in primates.

Man MS(1), Mikheenko Y(1), Braesicke K(1), Cockcroft G(2), Roberts AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neurosciences Institute, University of Cambridge,
Downing Street, UK.

Impaired top-down regulation of the amygdala, and its modulation by serotonin
(5-HT), is strongly implicated in the dysregulation of negative emotion that
characterizes a number of affective disorders. However, the contribution of these
mechanisms to the regulation of positive emotion is not well understood. This
study investigated the role of 5-HT within the amygdala and the orbitofrontal
cortex (OFC), on the expression of appetitive Pavlovian conditioned emotional
responses and their reversal in a primate, the common marmoset. Its effects were 
compared to those of the amygdala itself. Having developed conditioned autonomic 
and behavioural responses to an appetitive cue prior to surgery, marmosets with
excitotoxic amygdala lesions failed to display such conditioned autonomic arousal
at retention, but still displayed intact cue-directed conditioned behaviours. In 
contrast, 5,7-DHT infusions into the amygdala, reducing extracellular 5-HT
levels, selectively enhanced the expression of appetitive conditioned behaviour
at retention. Similar infusions into the OFC, producing marked reductions in
post-mortem 5-HT tissue levels, had no overall effect on autonomic or behavioural
responses, either at retention or during reversal learning, but caused an
uncoupling of these responses, thereby fractionating emotional output. These data
demonstrate the critical role of the amygdala in the expression of appetitive
autonomic conditioning, and the region-selective contribution of 5-HT in the
amygdala and OFC, respectively, to the expression of conditioned behaviour and
the overall coordination of the emotional response. They provide insight into the
neurochemical mechanisms underlying the regulation of positive emotional
responses, advancing our understanding of the neural basis of pathologically
dysregulated emotion.

DOI: 10.1017/S1461145711000587 
PMCID: PMC3243904
PMID: 21726490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1859. Lipids Health Dis. 2011 Jul 1;10:111. doi: 10.1186/1476-511X-10-111.

Induction of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lytic cycle in vitro causes lipid
peroxidation, protein oxidation and DNA damage in lymphoblastoid B cell lines.

Gargouri B(1), Nasr R, Mseddi M, Benmansour R, Lassoued S.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Biotechnologie et Pathologies, Institut Supérieur de Biotechnologie
de Sfax, Tunisia. bochra.gargouri@yahoo.fr.

BACKGROUND: We investigated the oxidative modifications of lipids, proteins and
DNA, potential molecular targets of oxidative stress, in two lymphoblastoid cell 
lines: B95-8 and Raji, after EBV lytic cycle induction. Conjugated dienes level
was measured as biomarker of lipid peroxidation. Malondialdehyde adduct and
protein carbonyl levels, as well as protein thiol levels were measured as
biomarkers of protein oxidation. DNA fragmentation was evaluated as biomarker of 
DNA oxidation.
RESULTS: After 48 h (peak of lytic cycle), a significant increase in conjugated
dienes level was observed in B95-8 and Raji cell lines (p = 0.0001 and p = 0.019 
respectively). Malondialdehyde adduct, protein carbonyl levels were increased in 
B95-8 and Raji cell lines after EBV lytic cycle induction as compared to controls
(MDA-adduct: p = 0.008 and p = 0.006 respectively; Carbonyl: p = 0.003 and p =
0.0039 respectively). Proteins thiol levels were decreased by induction in B95-8 
and Raji cell lines (p = 0.046; p = 0.002 respectively). DNA fragmentation was
also detected in B95-8 and Raji cell lines after EBV lytic cycle induction as
compared to controls.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrate the presence of increased
combined oxidative modifications in lipids, proteins in B95-8 and Raji cells
lines after EBV lytic cycle induction. These results suggest that lipid
peroxidation, protein oxidation and DNA fragmentation are generally induced
during EBV lytic cycle induction and probably contribute to the cytopathic effect
of EBV.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-511X-10-111 
PMCID: PMC3146848
PMID: 21722381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

