

186. J Comp Neurol. 2021 Jul 1;529(10):2727-2749. doi: 10.1002/cne.25120. Epub 2021
Feb 5.

Identification of retinal ganglion cell types expressing the transcription factor
Satb2 in three primate species.

Nasir-Ahmad S(1)(2), Lee SCS(1)(2), Martin PR(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health, Save Sight Institute and Discipline of
Ophthalmology, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

In primates, the retinal ganglion cells contributing to high acuity spatial
vision (midget cells and parasol cells), and blue-yellow color vision (small
bistratified cells) are well understood. Many other ganglion cell types with
large dendritic fields (named wide-field ganglion cells) have been identified,
but their spatial density and distribution are largely unknown. Here we took
advantage of the recently established molecular diversity of ganglion cells to
study wide-field ganglion cell populations in three primate species. We used
antibodies against the transcription factor Special AT-rich binding protein 2
(Satb2) to explore its expression in macaque (Macaca fascicularis, M.
nemestrina), human and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) retinas. In all three
species, Satb2 cells make up a low proportion (1.5-4%) of the ganglion cell
population, with a slight increase from central to peripheral retina.
Intracellular dye injections revealed that in macaque and human retinas, the
large majority (over 80%) of Satb2 cells are inner and outer stratifying large
sparse cells. By contrast, in marmoset retina the majority (over 60%) of Satb2
expressing cells were broad thorny cells, with smaller proportions of recursive
bistratified (putative direction-selective), large bistratified, and outer
stratifying narrow thorny cells. Our findings imply that Satb2 expression has
undergone rapid species specific adaptations during primate evolution, because
expression is not conserved across Old World (macaque, human) and New World
(marmoset) suborders.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25120 
PMID: 33527361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Elife. 2021 Feb 1;10. pii: e59272. doi: 10.7554/eLife.59272.

Dual midbrain and forebrain origins of thalamic inhibitory interneurons.

Jager P(1), Moore G(2)(3), Calpin P(4), Durmishi X(1), Salgarella I(1), Menage
L(1), Kita Y(5), Wang Y(5), Kim DW(6), Blackshaw S(6), Schultz SR(2), Brickley
S(3), Shimogori T(5), Delogu A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Psychiatry,
Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Life Sciences and Centre for Neurotechnology, Imperial College
London, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University College London, London, United
Kingdom.
(5)RIKEN, Center for Brain Science (CBS), Saitama, Japan.
(6)The Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, United States.

The ubiquitous presence of inhibitory interneurons in the thalamus of primates
contrasts with the sparsity of interneurons reported in mice. Here, we identify a
larger than expected complexity and distribution of interneurons across the mouse
thalamus, where all thalamic interneurons can be traced back to two developmental
programmes: one specified in the midbrain and the other in the forebrain.
Interneurons migrate to functionally distinct thalamocortical nuclei depending on
their origin: the abundant, midbrain-derived class populates the first and higher
order sensory thalamus while the rarer, forebrain-generated class is restricted
to some higher order associative regions. We also observe that markers for the
midbrain-born class are abundantly expressed throughout the thalamus of the New
World monkey marmoset. These data therefore reveal that, despite the broad
variability in interneuron density across mammalian species, the blueprint of the
ontogenetic organisation of thalamic interneurons of larger-brained mammals
exists and can be studied in mice.

© 2021, Jager et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.59272 
PMCID: PMC7906600
PMID: 33522480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: PJ, GM, PC, XD, IS, LM, YK, YW, DK, SB, SS, SB,
TS, AD No competing interests declared

