

1860. J Wildl Dis. 2011 Jul;47(3):690-3.

Outbreak of human herpesvirus type 1 infection in nonhuman primates (Callithrix
penincillata).

Costa EA(1), Luppi MM, Malta Mde C, Luiz AP, de Araujo MR, Coelho FM, da Fonseca 
FG, Ecco R, Resende M.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Clínica e Cirurgia Veterinárias, Escola de Veterinária,
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Antônio Carlos, 6627, 31270-901, Belo
Horizonte, MG, Brasil. azevedoec@yahoo.com.br

Human herpesvirus type 1 (HHV-1) is widely dispersed among the human population. 
Although infection is often asymptomatic in humans, nonhuman primates develop a
severe and often fatal infection. In August 2006, 13 black-tufted marmosets
(Callithrix penincillata) from a group of 14 presented with clinical apathy,
anorexia, and ataxia. Physical examination revealed conjunctivitis, erosive or
ulcerative lesions on the skin, and swollen lymph nodes. Of the 14 animals
captured, 10 died. Grossly, ulcers and erosions were observed on the skin of
face, nasal planum, lips, and oral mucosa. Histologically, superficial vesicular 
and erosive stomatitis with associated basophilic intranuclear inclusion bodies
in the squamous epithelium were observed. Swabs from oral lesions and tissue
samples from necropsied animals were positive for HHV-1 by nested polymerase
chain reaction for eight animals.

DOI: 10.7589/0090-3558-47.3.690 
PMID: 21719834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1861. Biol Lett. 2011 Dec 23;7(6):840-2. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2011.0529. Epub 2011 Jun 29.

Noisy human neighbours affect where urban monkeys live.

Duarte MH(1), Vecci MA, Hirsch A, Young RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Conservation, Ecology and Animal Behaviour Group, Prédio 41, Mestrado em
Zoologia, Pontifícia Universidade Católica de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas
Gerais, Brasil.

Urban areas and many natural habitats are being dominated by a new selection
pressure: anthropogenic noise. The ongoing expansion of urban areas, roads and
airports throughout the world makes the noise almost omnipresent. Urbanization
and the increase of noise levels form a major threat to living conditions in and 
around cities. Insight into the behavioural strategies of urban survivors may
explain the sensitivity of other species to urban selection pressures. Here, we
show that urban black-tufted marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) living in noisy
urban areas may select their home-range based primarily on ambient noise level.
We have tested the hypothesis that the noise from vehicular traffic and visitors 
in an urban park in Brazil influences the use of home-range (space) by urban
marmosets. Marmosets even avoided noisy areas with high food availability. In
addition, they systematically preferred the quieter areas even with dynamic
changes in the acoustic landscape of the park between weekdays and Sundays (no
observations were made on Saturdays). These data provide evidence that the use of
home-range by wild animals can be affected by a potential aversive stimulus such 
as noise pollution.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2011.0529 
PMCID: PMC3210685
PMID: 21715396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

