

1861. Biol Lett. 2011 Dec 23;7(6):840-2. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2011.0529. Epub 2011 Jun 29.

Noisy human neighbours affect where urban monkeys live.

Duarte MH(1), Vecci MA, Hirsch A, Young RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Conservation, Ecology and Animal Behaviour Group, Prédio 41, Mestrado em
Zoologia, Pontifícia Universidade Católica de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas
Gerais, Brasil.

Urban areas and many natural habitats are being dominated by a new selection
pressure: anthropogenic noise. The ongoing expansion of urban areas, roads and
airports throughout the world makes the noise almost omnipresent. Urbanization
and the increase of noise levels form a major threat to living conditions in and 
around cities. Insight into the behavioural strategies of urban survivors may
explain the sensitivity of other species to urban selection pressures. Here, we
show that urban black-tufted marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) living in noisy
urban areas may select their home-range based primarily on ambient noise level.
We have tested the hypothesis that the noise from vehicular traffic and visitors 
in an urban park in Brazil influences the use of home-range (space) by urban
marmosets. Marmosets even avoided noisy areas with high food availability. In
addition, they systematically preferred the quieter areas even with dynamic
changes in the acoustic landscape of the park between weekdays and Sundays (no
observations were made on Saturdays). These data provide evidence that the use of
home-range by wild animals can be affected by a potential aversive stimulus such 
as noise pollution.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2011.0529 
PMCID: PMC3210685
PMID: 21715396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1862. Eur J Neurosci. 2011 Jul;34(2):303-19. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07744.x.
Epub 2011 Jun 30.

Subcortical projections to the frontal pole in the marmoset monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Reser DH, Richardson KE, Gaulke H, Worthy KH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Vic. 3800, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

The subcortical projections to the marmoset frontal pole were mapped with the use
of fluorescent tracer injections. The main thalamic projections, which originated
in both the magnocellular and parvocellular subdivisions of the mediodorsal
nucleus, were topographically organized. Our results suggest the existence of a
third, caudal subdivision of this nucleus, which is likely to be homologous to
the macaque's pars densocellularis. A substantial, but not topographically
organized, projection to Brodmann's area 10 originated in the medial part of the 
ventral anterior nucleus. Minor thalamic projections originated in the medial
pulvinar nucleus and in the midline/intralaminar nuclei. Finally, the posterior
thalamic group (including the limitans and suprageniculate nuclei) sent a small
projection to rostral area 10 that has not previously been documented in
primates. The main extrathalamic projections stemmed from the claustrum, which
contained as many as 50% of all subcortical labelled neurons. Minor connections
originated in the hypothalamus (mainly in the lateral anterior and lateral
tuberal regions), dorsal periaqueductal grey matter, basal forebrain (nucleus
basalis of Meynert and horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca), and
amygdala (basal, accessory basal and lateral nuclei). The present results,
combined with recent data on the cortical projections to area 10, reveal the
frontal pole as a region that integrates information from multiple neural
processing systems, including high-level sensory, limbic and working
memory-related structures. Although the pattern of subcortical projections is
similar to that previously described in the macaque, suggesting a homologous
organization, the present data also suggest functional distinctions between
medial and lateral sectors of area 10.

© 2011 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2011 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07744.x 
PMID: 21714814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

