

1862. Eur J Neurosci. 2011 Jul;34(2):303-19. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07744.x.
Epub 2011 Jun 30.

Subcortical projections to the frontal pole in the marmoset monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Reser DH, Richardson KE, Gaulke H, Worthy KH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Vic. 3800, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

The subcortical projections to the marmoset frontal pole were mapped with the use
of fluorescent tracer injections. The main thalamic projections, which originated
in both the magnocellular and parvocellular subdivisions of the mediodorsal
nucleus, were topographically organized. Our results suggest the existence of a
third, caudal subdivision of this nucleus, which is likely to be homologous to
the macaque's pars densocellularis. A substantial, but not topographically
organized, projection to Brodmann's area 10 originated in the medial part of the 
ventral anterior nucleus. Minor thalamic projections originated in the medial
pulvinar nucleus and in the midline/intralaminar nuclei. Finally, the posterior
thalamic group (including the limitans and suprageniculate nuclei) sent a small
projection to rostral area 10 that has not previously been documented in
primates. The main extrathalamic projections stemmed from the claustrum, which
contained as many as 50% of all subcortical labelled neurons. Minor connections
originated in the hypothalamus (mainly in the lateral anterior and lateral
tuberal regions), dorsal periaqueductal grey matter, basal forebrain (nucleus
basalis of Meynert and horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca), and
amygdala (basal, accessory basal and lateral nuclei). The present results,
combined with recent data on the cortical projections to area 10, reveal the
frontal pole as a region that integrates information from multiple neural
processing systems, including high-level sensory, limbic and working
memory-related structures. Although the pattern of subcortical projections is
similar to that previously described in the macaque, suggesting a homologous
organization, the present data also suggest functional distinctions between
medial and lateral sectors of area 10.

© 2011 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2011 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07744.x 
PMID: 21714814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1863. Exp Brain Res. 2011 Aug;213(1):63-71. doi: 10.1007/s00221-011-2778-9. Epub 2011
Jun 29.

Tool-use learning by common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Yamazaki Y(1), Echigo C, Saiki M, Inada M, Watanabe S, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)The Graduate School of Sociology, Keio University, 201 Mita Toho Building,
3-1-7 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-0073, Japan. yumyam@brain.riken.jp

One of the most critical and common features of tool use is that the tool
essentially functions as a part of the body. This feature is likely rooted in
biological features that are shared by tool users. To establish an ideal primate 
model to explore the neurobiological mechanisms supporting tool-use behaviours,
we trained common marmosets, a small New World monkey species that is not usually
associated with tool use, to use a rake-shaped tool to retrieve food. Five naive 
common marmosets were systematically trained to manipulate the tool using a
4-stage, step-by-step protocol. The relative positions of the tool and the food
were manipulated, so that the marmosets were required to (1) pull the tool
vertically, (2) move the tool horizontally, (3) make an arc to retrieve a food
item located behind the tool and (4) retrieve the food item. We found
considerable individual differences in tool-use technique; for example, one
animal consistently used a unilateral hand movement for all of the steps, whereas
the others (n = 4) used both hands to move the tool depending on the location of 
the food item. After extensive training, all of the marmosets could manipulate
the rake-shaped tool, which is reported in this species for the first time. The
common marmoset is thus a model primate for such studies. This study sets the
stage for future research to examine the biological mechanisms underlying the
cognitive ability of tool use at the molecular and genetic levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-011-2778-9 
PMCID: PMC3140946
PMID: 21713504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

