

1865. J Neuroendocrinol. 2011 Sep;23(9):778-90. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02181.x.

Triiodothyronine administration ameliorates the demyelination/remyelination ratio
in a non-human primate model of multiple sclerosis by correcting tissue
hypothyroidism.

D'Intino G(1), Lorenzini L, Fernandez M, Taglioni A, Perretta G, Del Vecchio G,
Villoslada P, Giardino L, Calzà L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medical Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna,
Italy.

Remyelination failure is a key landmark in chronic progression of multiple
sclerosis (MS), the most diffuse demyelinating disease in human, but the reasons 
for this are still unknown. It has been shown that thyroid hormone administration
in the rodent models of acute and chronic demyelinating diseases improved their
clinical course, pathology and remyelination. In the present study, we translated
this therapeutic attempt to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the 
non-human primate Callithrix Jacchus (marmoset). We report that short protocols
of triiodothyronine treatment shifts the demyelination/remyelination balance
toward remyelination, as assessed by morphology, immunohistochemistry and
molecular biology, and improves the clinical course of the disease. We also found
that severely ill animals display hypothyroidism and severe alteration of
deiodinase and thyroid hormone receptor mRNAs expression in the spinal cord,
which was completely corrected by thyroid hormone treatment. We therefore suggest
that thyroid hormone treatment improves myelin sheath morphology in marmoset EAE,
by correcting the dysfunction of thyroid hormone cellular effectors.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Neuroendocrinology © 2011 Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02181.x 
PMID: 21707794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1866. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2011 Sep;111(3):791-8. doi:
10.1152/japplphysiol.00162.2011. Epub 2011 Jun 23.

Bronchoconstriction in nonhuman primates: a species comparison.

Seehase S(1), Schlepütz M, Switalla S, Mätz-Rensing K, Kaup FJ, Zöller M,
Schlumbohm C, Fuchs E, Lauenstein HD, Winkler C, Kuehl AR, Uhlig S, Braun A,
Sewald K, Martin C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Airway Immunology, Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and
Experimental Medicine, Hannover, Germany.

Bronchoconstriction is a characteristic symptom of various chronic obstructive
respiratory diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma.
Precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) are a suitable ex vivo model to study
physiological mechanisms of bronchoconstriction in different species. In the
present study, we established an ex vivo model of bronchoconstriction in nonhuman
primates (NHPs). PCLS prepared from common marmosets, cynomolgus macaques, rhesus
macaques, and anubis baboons were stimulated with increasing concentrations of
representative bronchoconstrictors: methacholine, histamine, serotonin,
leukotriene D₄ (LTD₄), U46619, and endothelin-1. Alterations in the airway
caliber were measured and compared with previously published data from rodents,
guinea pigs, and humans. Methacholine induced maximal airway constriction,
varying between 74 and 88% in all NHP species, whereas serotonin was ineffective.
Histamine induced maximal bronchoconstriction of 77 to 90% in rhesus macaques,
cynomolgus macaques, and baboons and a lesser constriction of 53% in marmosets.
LTD₄ was ineffective in marmosets and rhesus macaques but induced a maximum
constriction of 44 to 49% in cynomolgus macaques and baboons. U46619 and
endothelin-1 caused airway constriction in all NHP species, with maximum
constrictions of 65 to 91% and 70 to 81%, respectively. In conclusion, PCLS from 
NHPs represent a valuable ex vivo model for studying bronchoconstriction. All
NHPs respond to mediators relevant to human airway disorders such as
methacholine, histamine, U46619, and endothelin-1 and are insensitive to the
rodent mast cell product serotonin. Only PCLS from cynomolgus macaques and
baboons, however, responded also to leukotrienes, suggesting that among all
compared species, these two NHPs resemble the human airway mechanisms best.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00162.2011 
PMID: 21700889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

