

1866. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2011 Sep;111(3):791-8. doi:
10.1152/japplphysiol.00162.2011. Epub 2011 Jun 23.

Bronchoconstriction in nonhuman primates: a species comparison.

Seehase S(1), Schlepütz M, Switalla S, Mätz-Rensing K, Kaup FJ, Zöller M,
Schlumbohm C, Fuchs E, Lauenstein HD, Winkler C, Kuehl AR, Uhlig S, Braun A,
Sewald K, Martin C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Airway Immunology, Fraunhofer Institute for Toxicology and
Experimental Medicine, Hannover, Germany.

Bronchoconstriction is a characteristic symptom of various chronic obstructive
respiratory diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma.
Precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) are a suitable ex vivo model to study
physiological mechanisms of bronchoconstriction in different species. In the
present study, we established an ex vivo model of bronchoconstriction in nonhuman
primates (NHPs). PCLS prepared from common marmosets, cynomolgus macaques, rhesus
macaques, and anubis baboons were stimulated with increasing concentrations of
representative bronchoconstrictors: methacholine, histamine, serotonin,
leukotriene D₄ (LTD₄), U46619, and endothelin-1. Alterations in the airway
caliber were measured and compared with previously published data from rodents,
guinea pigs, and humans. Methacholine induced maximal airway constriction,
varying between 74 and 88% in all NHP species, whereas serotonin was ineffective.
Histamine induced maximal bronchoconstriction of 77 to 90% in rhesus macaques,
cynomolgus macaques, and baboons and a lesser constriction of 53% in marmosets.
LTD₄ was ineffective in marmosets and rhesus macaques but induced a maximum
constriction of 44 to 49% in cynomolgus macaques and baboons. U46619 and
endothelin-1 caused airway constriction in all NHP species, with maximum
constrictions of 65 to 91% and 70 to 81%, respectively. In conclusion, PCLS from 
NHPs represent a valuable ex vivo model for studying bronchoconstriction. All
NHPs respond to mediators relevant to human airway disorders such as
methacholine, histamine, U46619, and endothelin-1 and are insensitive to the
rodent mast cell product serotonin. Only PCLS from cynomolgus macaques and
baboons, however, responded also to leukotrienes, suggesting that among all
compared species, these two NHPs resemble the human airway mechanisms best.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00162.2011 
PMID: 21700889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1867. J Gen Virol. 2011 Oct;92(Pt 10):2272-2280. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.031229-0. Epub 2011
Jun 22.

Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a primate model of dengue virus
infection: development of high levels of viraemia and demonstration of protective
immunity.

Omatsu T(1), Moi ML(1), Hirayama T(1), Takasaki T(1), Nakamura S(2), Tajima S(1),
Ito M(1), Yoshida T(3), Saito A(3), Katakai Y(4)(3), Akari H(3), Kurane I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology I, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, 1-23-1
Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8640, Japan.
(2)Research Center for Animal Life Science, Shiga University of Medical Science, 
Seta Tsukinowa-cho, Otsu, Shiga 520-2192, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Disease Control, Tsukuba Primate Research Center, National
Institute of Biomedical Innovation, 1 Hachimandai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0843,
Japan.
(4)Corporation for Production and Research of Laboratory Primate, National
Institute of Biomedical Innovation, 1 Hachimandai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0843,
Japan.

Dengue virus (DENV) causes a wide range of illnesses in humans: dengue fever
(DF), dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) and dengue shock syndrome (DSS). Animal
models that constantly develop high levels of viraemia are required for the
development of protective and preventive measures. Common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) demonstrated high levels of viraemia after inoculation with clinical
isolates of four serotypes of DENV; in particular, over 10(6) genome copies
ml(-1) after inoculation with DENV-2. Non-structural protein 1 and DENV-specific 
IgM and IgG antibodies were consistently detected. The DENV-2 genome was detected
in lymphoid organs including the lymph nodes, spleen and thymus, and also in
non-lymphoid organs. DENV antigen was detected by immunohistochemistry in the
liver and spleen from inoculated marmosets. Four marmosets were reinoculated with
DENV-2 at 33 weeks after primary inoculation with DENV-2. The DENV-2 genome was
not detected in any of these marmosets, indicating protection from a secondary
infection. The results indicate that common marmosets are highly sensitive to
DENV infection, and suggest that marmosets could be a reliable primate model for 
the evaluation of candidate vaccines.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.031229-0 
PMID: 21697346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

