

1867. J Gen Virol. 2011 Oct;92(Pt 10):2272-2280. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.031229-0. Epub 2011
Jun 22.

Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a primate model of dengue virus
infection: development of high levels of viraemia and demonstration of protective
immunity.

Omatsu T(1), Moi ML(1), Hirayama T(1), Takasaki T(1), Nakamura S(2), Tajima S(1),
Ito M(1), Yoshida T(3), Saito A(3), Katakai Y(4)(3), Akari H(3), Kurane I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology I, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, 1-23-1
Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8640, Japan.
(2)Research Center for Animal Life Science, Shiga University of Medical Science, 
Seta Tsukinowa-cho, Otsu, Shiga 520-2192, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Disease Control, Tsukuba Primate Research Center, National
Institute of Biomedical Innovation, 1 Hachimandai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0843,
Japan.
(4)Corporation for Production and Research of Laboratory Primate, National
Institute of Biomedical Innovation, 1 Hachimandai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0843,
Japan.

Dengue virus (DENV) causes a wide range of illnesses in humans: dengue fever
(DF), dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) and dengue shock syndrome (DSS). Animal
models that constantly develop high levels of viraemia are required for the
development of protective and preventive measures. Common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) demonstrated high levels of viraemia after inoculation with clinical
isolates of four serotypes of DENV; in particular, over 10(6) genome copies
ml(-1) after inoculation with DENV-2. Non-structural protein 1 and DENV-specific 
IgM and IgG antibodies were consistently detected. The DENV-2 genome was detected
in lymphoid organs including the lymph nodes, spleen and thymus, and also in
non-lymphoid organs. DENV antigen was detected by immunohistochemistry in the
liver and spleen from inoculated marmosets. Four marmosets were reinoculated with
DENV-2 at 33 weeks after primary inoculation with DENV-2. The DENV-2 genome was
not detected in any of these marmosets, indicating protection from a secondary
infection. The results indicate that common marmosets are highly sensitive to
DENV infection, and suggest that marmosets could be a reliable primate model for 
the evaluation of candidate vaccines.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.031229-0 
PMID: 21697346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1868. Andrologia. 2012 May;44 Suppl 1:349-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2011.01188.x.
Epub 2011 Jun 20.

Quantification of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 mRNA of marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
oocytes from periantral and antral follicles.

Konrad L(1), Kuhnert S, Nayudu PL, Einspanier R, Hinsch KD, Hinsch E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Justus Liebig University, Giessen,
Germany. lutz.konrad@gyn.med.uni-giessen.de

In mammals, the oocyte and preimplantation embryo are protected by the zona
pellucida (ZP) consisting mainly of ZP glycoproteins, which are responsible for
sperm binding, induction of the acrosome reaction and zona pellucida hardening to
prevent polyspermia. The ZP proteins become increasingly important as possible
predictors for in vitro cultured oocytes competence. As little is known about the
stage-dependent expression of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 in marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) oocytes, mRNA expression was investigated with real-time RT-PCR.
Total-RNA was isolated from three different classes of marmoset oocytes; Class 1 
oocytes from periantral follicles (<600 μm, n = 10), Class 2 oocytes from small
antral follicles (600-1000 μm, n = 10) and Class 3 oocytes from large antral
follicles (>1000 μm, n = 9). Compared with Class 1 oocytes mRNA expression of
ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 in Class 2 oocytes was significantly decreased. In Class 3
oocytes, the transcription of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 genes showed also a significant
decrease compared with Class 1 oocytes. In this study a differently regulated
expression of the ZP genes during late folliculogenesis with an obvious
downregulation of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 could be demonstrated for the first time in
the marmoset monkey.

© 2011 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2011.01188.x 
PMID: 21689136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

