

1868. Andrologia. 2012 May;44 Suppl 1:349-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2011.01188.x.
Epub 2011 Jun 20.

Quantification of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 mRNA of marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
oocytes from periantral and antral follicles.

Konrad L(1), Kuhnert S, Nayudu PL, Einspanier R, Hinsch KD, Hinsch E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Justus Liebig University, Giessen,
Germany. lutz.konrad@gyn.med.uni-giessen.de

In mammals, the oocyte and preimplantation embryo are protected by the zona
pellucida (ZP) consisting mainly of ZP glycoproteins, which are responsible for
sperm binding, induction of the acrosome reaction and zona pellucida hardening to
prevent polyspermia. The ZP proteins become increasingly important as possible
predictors for in vitro cultured oocytes competence. As little is known about the
stage-dependent expression of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 in marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) oocytes, mRNA expression was investigated with real-time RT-PCR.
Total-RNA was isolated from three different classes of marmoset oocytes; Class 1 
oocytes from periantral follicles (<600 μm, n = 10), Class 2 oocytes from small
antral follicles (600-1000 μm, n = 10) and Class 3 oocytes from large antral
follicles (>1000 μm, n = 9). Compared with Class 1 oocytes mRNA expression of
ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 in Class 2 oocytes was significantly decreased. In Class 3
oocytes, the transcription of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 genes showed also a significant
decrease compared with Class 1 oocytes. In this study a differently regulated
expression of the ZP genes during late folliculogenesis with an obvious
downregulation of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 could be demonstrated for the first time in
the marmoset monkey.

© 2011 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2011.01188.x 
PMID: 21689136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1869. Drug Metab Dispos. 2011 Sep;39(9):1555-67. doi: 10.1124/dmd.111.039669. Epub 2011
Jun 13.

Disposition and metabolism of ticagrelor, a novel P2Y12 receptor antagonist, in
mice, rats, and marmosets.

Li Y(1), Landqvist C, Grimm SW.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, AstraZeneca R&D, Waltham, MA 02451, USA.
yan.li@astrazeneca.com

Ticagrelor is a reversibly binding and selective oral P2Y(12) antagonist,
developed for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute
coronary syndromes. The disposition and metabolism of [(14)C]ticagrelor was
investigated in mice, rats, and marmosets to demonstrate that these preclinical
toxicity species showed similar metabolic profiles to human. Incubations with
hepatocytes or microsomes from multiple species were also studied to compare with
in vivo metabolic profiles. The routes of excretion were similar for both oral
and intravenous administration in mice, rats, and marmosets with fecal excretion 
being the major elimination pathway accounting for 59 to 96% of the total
radioactivity administered. Urinary excretion of drug-related material accounted 
for only 1 to 15% of the total radioactivity administered. Milk samples from
lactating rats displayed significantly higher levels of total radioactivity than 
plasma after oral administration of ticagrelor. This demonstrated that ticagrelor
and/or its metabolites were readily transferred into rat milk and that neonatal
rats could be exposed to ticagrelor-related compounds via maternal milk.
Ticagrelor and active metabolite AR-C124910 (loss of hydroxyethyl side chain)
were the major components in plasma from all species studied and similar to human
plasma profiles. The primary metabolite of ticagrelor excreted in urine across
all species was an inactive metabolite, AR-C133913 (loss of
difluorophenylcyclopropyl group). Ticagrelor, AR-C124910, and AR-C133913 were the
major components found in feces from the three species examined. Overall, in vivo
metabolite profiles were qualitatively similar across all species and consistent 
with in vitro results.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.111.039669 
PMID: 21670219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

