

1872. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2011 May-Jun;44(3):356-63. Epub 2011 May 27.

[Risks of transmitting rabies virus from captive domiciliary common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) to human beings, in the metropolitan region of Fortaleza,
state of Ceará, Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Aguiar TD(1), Costa EC, Rolim BN, Romijn PC, Morais NB, Teixeira MF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Virologia, Universidade Estadual do Ceará, Fortaleza, CE.
labovirfavetuece@yahoo.com.br

INTRODUCTION: In the State of Ceará, a new variant of the rabies virus was
identified associated with cases of human rabies transmitted by common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus), which are frequently kept as pets. This new variant does
not present antigenic proximity or genetic relationship to variants of the virus 
isolated from bats and terrestrial mammals from the American continent. The
present study aimed to evaluate the risk factors of rabies virus transmission
from common marmosets (C. jacchus) maintained as pets in the metropolitan region 
of Fortaleza, State of Ceará, Brazil, to human beings.
METHODS: A questionnaire focusing on animal management and interaction between
humans and primates was applied to individuals who had marmosets in the
municipalities of Aquiraz and Maranguape. In order to evaluate the presence of
rabies antigens by direct immunofluorescence test (DIF), samples of saliva were
collected from domiciliary captive marmosets. Based on the detection of rabies
antigens, biopsy samples of central nervous system (CNS) were analyzed.
RESULTS: Analysis of questionnaire data verified that a close relation exists
between humans and their pet marmosets, especially during management practices.
Additionally, these people showed minimal knowledge regarding rabies, which
represents a greater risk of infection. Of the 29 saliva samples evaluated, one
(3.4%) was positive for DIF reaction and of the 11 CNS samples, three (27.3%)
were positive.
CONCLUSIONS: Laboratory data are in agreement with the questionnaire findings,
which confirm an increased risk of rabies virus transmission due to the close
relation between humans and marmosets.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822011005000031 
PMID: 21625806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1873. Neurobiol Aging. 2012 Aug;33(8):1664-71. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2011.03.008. Epub 2011 May 28.

Modeling hippocampal neurogenesis across the lifespan in seven species.

Lazic SE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics and Exploratory Data Analysis, F Hoffmann-La Roche, Basel,
Switzerland. stan.lazic@cantab.net

The aim of this study was to estimate the number of new cells and neurons added
to the dentate gyrus across the lifespan, and to compare the rate of
age-associated decline in neurogenesis across species. Data from mice (Mus
musculus), rats (Rattus norvegicus), lesser hedgehog tenrecs (Echinops telfairi),
macaques (Macaca mulatta), marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), tree shrews (Tupaia
belangeri), and humans (Homo sapiens) were extracted from 21 data sets published 
in 14 different reports. Analysis of variance (ANOVA), exponential, Weibull, and 
power models were fit to the data to determine which best described the
relationship between age and neurogenesis. Exponential models provided a suitable
fit and were used to estimate the relevant parameters. The rate of decrease of
neurogenesis correlated with species longevity (r = 0.769, p = 0.043), but not
body mass or basal metabolic rate. Of all the cells added postnatally to the
mouse dentate gyrus, only 8.5% (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.0% to 14.7%) of
these will be added after middle age. In addition, only 5.7% (95% CI 0.7% to
9.9%) of the existing cell population turns over from middle age and onward.
Thus, relatively few new cells are added for much of an animal's life, and only a
proportion of these will mature into functional neurons.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2011.03.008 
PMID: 21621300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

