

1873. Neurobiol Aging. 2012 Aug;33(8):1664-71. doi:
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2011.03.008. Epub 2011 May 28.

Modeling hippocampal neurogenesis across the lifespan in seven species.

Lazic SE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics and Exploratory Data Analysis, F Hoffmann-La Roche, Basel,
Switzerland. stan.lazic@cantab.net

The aim of this study was to estimate the number of new cells and neurons added
to the dentate gyrus across the lifespan, and to compare the rate of
age-associated decline in neurogenesis across species. Data from mice (Mus
musculus), rats (Rattus norvegicus), lesser hedgehog tenrecs (Echinops telfairi),
macaques (Macaca mulatta), marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), tree shrews (Tupaia
belangeri), and humans (Homo sapiens) were extracted from 21 data sets published 
in 14 different reports. Analysis of variance (ANOVA), exponential, Weibull, and 
power models were fit to the data to determine which best described the
relationship between age and neurogenesis. Exponential models provided a suitable
fit and were used to estimate the relevant parameters. The rate of decrease of
neurogenesis correlated with species longevity (r = 0.769, p = 0.043), but not
body mass or basal metabolic rate. Of all the cells added postnatally to the
mouse dentate gyrus, only 8.5% (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.0% to 14.7%) of
these will be added after middle age. In addition, only 5.7% (95% CI 0.7% to
9.9%) of the existing cell population turns over from middle age and onward.
Thus, relatively few new cells are added for much of an animal's life, and only a
proportion of these will mature into functional neurons.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2011.03.008 
PMID: 21621300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1874. Epilepsy Res. 2011 Sep;96(1-2):45-57. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2011.04.015. Epub
2011 May 26.

Modeling epileptogenesis and temporal lobe epilepsy in a non-human primate.

Perez-Mendes P(1), Blanco MM, Calcagnotto ME, Cinini SM, Bachiega J, Papoti D,
Covolan L, Tannus A, Mello LE.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Brazil.

Here we describe a new non-human primate model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) to
better investigate the cause/effect relationships of human TLE. Status
epilepticus (SE) was induced in adult marmosets by pilocarpine injection
(250mg/kg; i.p.). The animals were divided in 2 groups: acute (8h post-SE) and
chronic (3 and 5 months post-SE). To manage the severity of SE, animals received 
diazepam 5min after the SE onset (acute group: 2.5 or 1.25mg/kg; i.p.; chronic
group/; 1.25mg/kg; i.p). All animals were monitored by video and
electrocorticography to assess SE and subsequent spontaneous recurrent seizures
(SRS). To evaluate brain injury produced by SE or SRS we used argyrophil III,
Nissl and neo-Timm staining techniques. Magnetic resonance image was also
performed in the chronic group. We observed that pilocarpine was able to induce
SE followed by SRS after a variable period of time. Prolonged SE episodes were
associated with brain damage, mostly confined to the hippocampus and limbic
structures. Similar to human TLE, anatomical disruption of dentate gyrus was
observed after SRS. Our data suggest that pilocarpine marmoset model of epilepsy 
has great resemblance to human TLE, and could provide new tools to further
evaluate the subtle changes associated with human epilepsy.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2011.04.015 
PMID: 21620680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

