

1874. Epilepsy Res. 2011 Sep;96(1-2):45-57. doi: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2011.04.015. Epub
2011 May 26.

Modeling epileptogenesis and temporal lobe epilepsy in a non-human primate.

Perez-Mendes P(1), Blanco MM, Calcagnotto ME, Cinini SM, Bachiega J, Papoti D,
Covolan L, Tannus A, Mello LE.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Brazil.

Here we describe a new non-human primate model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) to
better investigate the cause/effect relationships of human TLE. Status
epilepticus (SE) was induced in adult marmosets by pilocarpine injection
(250mg/kg; i.p.). The animals were divided in 2 groups: acute (8h post-SE) and
chronic (3 and 5 months post-SE). To manage the severity of SE, animals received 
diazepam 5min after the SE onset (acute group: 2.5 or 1.25mg/kg; i.p.; chronic
group/; 1.25mg/kg; i.p). All animals were monitored by video and
electrocorticography to assess SE and subsequent spontaneous recurrent seizures
(SRS). To evaluate brain injury produced by SE or SRS we used argyrophil III,
Nissl and neo-Timm staining techniques. Magnetic resonance image was also
performed in the chronic group. We observed that pilocarpine was able to induce
SE followed by SRS after a variable period of time. Prolonged SE episodes were
associated with brain damage, mostly confined to the hippocampus and limbic
structures. Similar to human TLE, anatomical disruption of dentate gyrus was
observed after SRS. Our data suggest that pilocarpine marmoset model of epilepsy 
has great resemblance to human TLE, and could provide new tools to further
evaluate the subtle changes associated with human epilepsy.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eplepsyres.2011.04.015 
PMID: 21620680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1875. J Neurophysiol. 2011 Aug;106(2):849-59. doi: 10.1152/jn.00559.2010. Epub 2011 May
25.

Fine frequency tuning in monkey auditory cortex and thalamus.

Bartlett EL(1), Sadagopan S, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, 720 Rutland
Ave., Traylor 410, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

The frequency resolution of neurons throughout the ascending auditory pathway is 
important for understanding how sounds are processed. In many animal studies, the
frequency tuning widths are about 1/5th octave wide in auditory nerve fibers and 
much wider in auditory cortex neurons. Psychophysical studies show that humans
are capable of discriminating far finer frequency differences. A recent study
suggested that this is perhaps attributable to fine frequency tuning of neurons
in human auditory cortex (Bitterman Y, Mukamel R, Malach R, Fried I, Nelken I.
Nature 451: 197-201, 2008). We investigated whether such fine frequency tuning
was restricted to human auditory cortex by examining the frequency tuning width
in the awake common marmoset monkey. We show that 27% of neurons in the primary
auditory cortex exhibit frequency tuning that is finer than the typical frequency
tuning of the auditory nerve and substantially finer than previously reported
cortical data obtained from anesthetized animals. Fine frequency tuning is also
present in 76% of neurons of the auditory thalamus in awake marmosets. Frequency 
tuning was narrower during the sustained response compared to the onset response 
in auditory cortex neurons but not in thalamic neurons, suggesting that
thalamocortical or intracortical dynamics shape time-dependent frequency tuning
in cortex. These findings challenge the notion that the fine frequency tuning of 
auditory cortex is unique to human auditory cortex and that it is a de novo
cortical property, suggesting that the broader tuning observed in previous animal
studies may arise from the use of anesthesia during physiological recordings or
from species differences.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00559.2010 
PMCID: PMC3154823
PMID: 21613589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

