

1875. J Neurophysiol. 2011 Aug;106(2):849-59. doi: 10.1152/jn.00559.2010. Epub 2011 May
25.

Fine frequency tuning in monkey auditory cortex and thalamus.

Bartlett EL(1), Sadagopan S, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, 720 Rutland
Ave., Traylor 410, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

The frequency resolution of neurons throughout the ascending auditory pathway is 
important for understanding how sounds are processed. In many animal studies, the
frequency tuning widths are about 1/5th octave wide in auditory nerve fibers and 
much wider in auditory cortex neurons. Psychophysical studies show that humans
are capable of discriminating far finer frequency differences. A recent study
suggested that this is perhaps attributable to fine frequency tuning of neurons
in human auditory cortex (Bitterman Y, Mukamel R, Malach R, Fried I, Nelken I.
Nature 451: 197-201, 2008). We investigated whether such fine frequency tuning
was restricted to human auditory cortex by examining the frequency tuning width
in the awake common marmoset monkey. We show that 27% of neurons in the primary
auditory cortex exhibit frequency tuning that is finer than the typical frequency
tuning of the auditory nerve and substantially finer than previously reported
cortical data obtained from anesthetized animals. Fine frequency tuning is also
present in 76% of neurons of the auditory thalamus in awake marmosets. Frequency 
tuning was narrower during the sustained response compared to the onset response 
in auditory cortex neurons but not in thalamic neurons, suggesting that
thalamocortical or intracortical dynamics shape time-dependent frequency tuning
in cortex. These findings challenge the notion that the fine frequency tuning of 
auditory cortex is unique to human auditory cortex and that it is a de novo
cortical property, suggesting that the broader tuning observed in previous animal
studies may arise from the use of anesthesia during physiological recordings or
from species differences.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00559.2010 
PMCID: PMC3154823
PMID: 21613589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1876. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2011 May;1225 Suppl 1:E171-81. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06000.x.

Visualizing myeloarchitecture with magnetic resonance imaging in primates.

Bock NA(1), Hashim E, Kocharyan A, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Physics and Applied Radiation Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada. bockn@mcmaster.ca

The pattern of myelination over the cerebral cortex, termed myeloarchitecture, is
an established and often-used feature to visualize cortical organization with
histology in a variety of primate species. In this paper, we use in vivo magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) and advanced image processing using surface rendering to 
visualize and characterize myeloarchitecture in a small nonhuman primate, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Through images made in four female adult
marmosets, we produce a representative 3D map of marmoset myeloarchitecture and
flatten and annotate this map to show the location and extent of a variety of
major areas of the cortex, including the primary visual, auditory, and
somatosensory areas. By treating our MRI data as a surface, we can measure the
surface area of cortical areas, and we present these measurements here to
summarize cortical organization in the marmoset.

Â© 2011 New York Academy of Sciences. No claim to original U.S. Government works.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2011.06000.x 
PMCID: PMC5027904
PMID: 21599695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

