

1878. Physiol Behav. 2011 Sep 1;104(3):446-53. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.05.005. Epub
2011 May 11.

Hormonal and behavioral responses to stress in lactating and non-lactating female
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, United
States. Saltzman@ucr.edu

In several mammalian species, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) and behavioral
responses to stressors are down-regulated in lactating females, possibly
preventing stress-induced disruptions of maternal care. Experimental elevations
of HPA axis hormones have been found to inhibit maternal behavior in lactating
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), raising the question of whether
lactating female marmosets also have blunted endogenous responses to stress.
Therefore, we compared HPA and behavioral responses to standardized stressors in 
reproductively experienced female common marmosets that were undergoing ovulatory
cycles and that either were (N=7) or were not lactating (N=8). Each marmoset
underwent (1) a restraint stressor during the early follicular phase of the
ovarian cycle (approximately 5 weeks postpartum for lactating females) and (2)
exposure to a simulated hawk predator during the early to mid-luteal phase
(approximately 7 weeks postpartum for lactating females). Lactating females were 
tested in the presence of one of their infants. Blood samples were collected
before, during, and immediately after each test for determination of plasma
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol concentrations. Both stressors
caused significant elevations in plasma ACTH and cortisol levels, and significant
decreases in cortisol:ACTH ratios; however, lactating and non-lactating females
showed no significant differences in their endocrine or behavioral responses to
either stressor, or in baseline ACTH or cortisol levels. These findings suggest
that in contrast to several other mammalian species, lactating female marmosets
maintain full behavioral and HPA responsiveness to stress, at least in the
presence of their infants.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.05.005 
PMCID: PMC3129480
PMID: 21600906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1879. Mikrobiol Z. 2011 Mar-Apr;73(2):65-72.

[Effect of isonicotinic acid derivates on reproduction of Epstein-Barr virus].

[Article in Ukrainian]

Zahorodnia SD, Nesterova NV, Danylenko VP, Bukhtiarova TA, Baranova HV, Holovan' 
AV.

Current approaches to the treatment of herpes infection, particularly
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), include the use of etiotropic medicines, as well as
sensitizing therapy. This virus plays an important role in the etiology of
nasopharyngeal carcinoma, adenocarcinoma of the parotid glands, gastric
carcinoma, Burkitt's lymphoma and lymphoproliferative syndromes [1, 2, 3]. The
spectrum of drugs active against EBV remains very limited, and gancyclovir and
acyclovir are used in medical practice, so the search of new compounds active
against EBV remains urgent. The purpose of this work was to study antiEBV
activity of isonicotinic acid derivatives in the cultures of lymphoblastoid Raji 
cells, B95-8, Namalwa. The indices of cytotoxicity (CC50) which amounted to 840, 
1250 and 3000 microg/ml and the concentration of drugs, which inhibit the virus
(IC50) reproduction is 0.1, 2.5 and 50 microg/ml, respectively, in cell cultures 
were identified. It was detected, the drug
4-(n-benzyl)aminocarbonyl-1-methylpyridinium iodide (PV-1) had an ability to
inhibit reproduction of the Epstein-Barr virus in all studied cells cultures. The
compounds PV-2 and PV-10 were less toxic in respect of the initial preparation
PV-1, but their antiviral activity was manifested at 25 and 500 times higher
concentrations. It, respectively, influenced the decrease of their selectivity
index, which was 8400 for PV-1, 400 and 440--for PV-2 and PV-10. These studies
suggest possible ways of further modification of the PV-1 molecule to create
highly specific inhibitors of Epstein-Barr virus. The paper is presented in
Ukrainian.


PMID: 21598662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

