

1879. Mikrobiol Z. 2011 Mar-Apr;73(2):65-72.

[Effect of isonicotinic acid derivates on reproduction of Epstein-Barr virus].

[Article in Ukrainian]

Zahorodnia SD, Nesterova NV, Danylenko VP, Bukhtiarova TA, Baranova HV, Holovan' 
AV.

Current approaches to the treatment of herpes infection, particularly
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), include the use of etiotropic medicines, as well as
sensitizing therapy. This virus plays an important role in the etiology of
nasopharyngeal carcinoma, adenocarcinoma of the parotid glands, gastric
carcinoma, Burkitt's lymphoma and lymphoproliferative syndromes [1, 2, 3]. The
spectrum of drugs active against EBV remains very limited, and gancyclovir and
acyclovir are used in medical practice, so the search of new compounds active
against EBV remains urgent. The purpose of this work was to study antiEBV
activity of isonicotinic acid derivatives in the cultures of lymphoblastoid Raji 
cells, B95-8, Namalwa. The indices of cytotoxicity (CC50) which amounted to 840, 
1250 and 3000 microg/ml and the concentration of drugs, which inhibit the virus
(IC50) reproduction is 0.1, 2.5 and 50 microg/ml, respectively, in cell cultures 
were identified. It was detected, the drug
4-(n-benzyl)aminocarbonyl-1-methylpyridinium iodide (PV-1) had an ability to
inhibit reproduction of the Epstein-Barr virus in all studied cells cultures. The
compounds PV-2 and PV-10 were less toxic in respect of the initial preparation
PV-1, but their antiviral activity was manifested at 25 and 500 times higher
concentrations. It, respectively, influenced the decrease of their selectivity
index, which was 8400 for PV-1, 400 and 440--for PV-2 and PV-10. These studies
suggest possible ways of further modification of the PV-1 molecule to create
highly specific inhibitors of Epstein-Barr virus. The paper is presented in
Ukrainian.


PMID: 21598662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1880. J Neurosci. 2011 May 11;31(19):7190-8. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1171-11.2011.

Characterization of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) enantiomers in vitro
and in the MPTP-lesioned primate: R-MDMA reduces severity of dyskinesia, whereas 
S-MDMA extends duration of ON-time.

Huot P(1), Johnston TH, Lewis KD, Koprich JB, Reyes MG, Fox SH, Piggott MJ,
Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario M5T 2S8, Canada.

l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) is the most effective treatment for
Parkinson's disease, but long-term l-DOPA administration is marred by the
emergence of motor complications, namely, dyskinesia and a shortening of
antiparkinsonian benefit (wearing-OFF). 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) 
is unique in that it exerts antidyskinetic effects and may enhance
antiparkinsonian actions of l-DOPA. MDMA is composed of two enantiomers with
different pharmacological profiles; here, we describe a novel enantiospecific
synthesis of the two enantiomers and expand on the previous characterization of
their pharmacology. R-MDMA (rectus-MDMA) is relatively selective for 5-HT(2A)
receptors, whereas S-MDMA (sinister-MDMA) inhibits both serotonin (SERT) and
dopamine transporters (DAT; SERT/DAT ratio of 10 to 1). R- or S-MDMA (1, 3, and
10 mg/kg, s.c.) was administered in combination with l-DOPA (15 mg/kg, s.c.) to
six female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) rendered parkinsonian by MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) administration. Motor disability, 
including parkinsonism and dyskinesia, and duration of antiparkinsonian benefit
(ON-time) were evaluated. After the administration of R-MDMA (3 and 10 mg/kg),
the severity of peak-dose dyskinesia was decreased (by 33 and 46%, respectively; 
p < 0.05); although total ON-time was unchanged (approximately 220 min), the
duration of ON-time with disabling dyskinesia was decreased by 90 min when
compared to l-DOPA alone (69% reduction; p < 0.05). S-MDMA (1 mg/kg) increased
the total ON-time by 88 min compared to l-DOPA alone (34% increase; p < 0.05),
though dyskinesia were exacerbated. These data suggest that racemic MDMA exerts
simultaneous effects, reducing dyskinesia and extending ON-time, by 5-HT(2A)
antagonism and SERT-selective mixed monoamine uptake inhibition, which arise from
its R and S enantiomers, respectively.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1171-11.2011 
PMCID: PMC6703214
PMID: 21562283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

