

1880. J Neurosci. 2011 May 11;31(19):7190-8. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1171-11.2011.

Characterization of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) enantiomers in vitro
and in the MPTP-lesioned primate: R-MDMA reduces severity of dyskinesia, whereas 
S-MDMA extends duration of ON-time.

Huot P(1), Johnston TH, Lewis KD, Koprich JB, Reyes MG, Fox SH, Piggott MJ,
Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario M5T 2S8, Canada.

l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) is the most effective treatment for
Parkinson's disease, but long-term l-DOPA administration is marred by the
emergence of motor complications, namely, dyskinesia and a shortening of
antiparkinsonian benefit (wearing-OFF). 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) 
is unique in that it exerts antidyskinetic effects and may enhance
antiparkinsonian actions of l-DOPA. MDMA is composed of two enantiomers with
different pharmacological profiles; here, we describe a novel enantiospecific
synthesis of the two enantiomers and expand on the previous characterization of
their pharmacology. R-MDMA (rectus-MDMA) is relatively selective for 5-HT(2A)
receptors, whereas S-MDMA (sinister-MDMA) inhibits both serotonin (SERT) and
dopamine transporters (DAT; SERT/DAT ratio of 10 to 1). R- or S-MDMA (1, 3, and
10 mg/kg, s.c.) was administered in combination with l-DOPA (15 mg/kg, s.c.) to
six female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) rendered parkinsonian by MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) administration. Motor disability, 
including parkinsonism and dyskinesia, and duration of antiparkinsonian benefit
(ON-time) were evaluated. After the administration of R-MDMA (3 and 10 mg/kg),
the severity of peak-dose dyskinesia was decreased (by 33 and 46%, respectively; 
p < 0.05); although total ON-time was unchanged (approximately 220 min), the
duration of ON-time with disabling dyskinesia was decreased by 90 min when
compared to l-DOPA alone (69% reduction; p < 0.05). S-MDMA (1 mg/kg) increased
the total ON-time by 88 min compared to l-DOPA alone (34% increase; p < 0.05),
though dyskinesia were exacerbated. These data suggest that racemic MDMA exerts
simultaneous effects, reducing dyskinesia and extending ON-time, by 5-HT(2A)
antagonism and SERT-selective mixed monoamine uptake inhibition, which arise from
its R and S enantiomers, respectively.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1171-11.2011 
PMCID: PMC6703214
PMID: 21562283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1881. J Neuroendocrinol. 2011 Nov;23(11):1139-48. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02153.x.

Inhibition of maternal behaviour by central infusion of corticotrophin-releasing 
hormone in marmoset monkeys.

Saltzman W(1), Boettcher CA, Post JL, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Stress can inhibit maternal behaviour and increase rates of child abuse in humans
and other animals; however, the neuroendocrine mechanisms are not known. To
determine whether corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) plays a role in
stress-induced disruption of maternal behaviour in primates, we characterised the
effects of acute i.c.v. infusions of CRH on maternal and abusive behaviour in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Nulliparous females were implanted 
with indwelling i.c.v. guide cannulae before conception. Between 18 and 58 days
after the birth of her first infants, each female underwent a series of i.c.v.
infusions of human CRH (0, 2, 8 and 25 μg) in 8 μl of artificial cerebrospinal
fluid. In the 70 min after infusion, marmosets were tested with one of their
infants, first in their home cage and, subsequently, in an unfamiliar cage in
which the infant was confined in a transparent box on the cage floor. In the home
cage, the highest dose of CRH significantly reduced the amount of time that
mothers spent carrying their infants, as compared to vehicle alone, although it
did not reliably affect aggression toward the infant or other behaviours. In the 
confined-infant test, the highest dose of CRH significantly reduced the amount of
time that mothers spent on the cage floor, increased mothers' vocalisation rates,
and tended to reduce their activity levels and time spent in proximity to their
infant. Twenty-five micrograms of CRH also elicited significant elevations in
plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone and cortisol concentrations compared to
vehicle. These results indicate that i.c.v.-administered CRH reduces maternal
behaviour in marmoset mothers, in both familiar and unfamiliar environments, but 
does not increase infant abuse.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Neuroendocrinology © 2011 Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02153.x 
PMCID: PMC3166357
PMID: 21554432  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

