

1881. J Neuroendocrinol. 2011 Nov;23(11):1139-48. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02153.x.

Inhibition of maternal behaviour by central infusion of corticotrophin-releasing 
hormone in marmoset monkeys.

Saltzman W(1), Boettcher CA, Post JL, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Stress can inhibit maternal behaviour and increase rates of child abuse in humans
and other animals; however, the neuroendocrine mechanisms are not known. To
determine whether corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) plays a role in
stress-induced disruption of maternal behaviour in primates, we characterised the
effects of acute i.c.v. infusions of CRH on maternal and abusive behaviour in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Nulliparous females were implanted 
with indwelling i.c.v. guide cannulae before conception. Between 18 and 58 days
after the birth of her first infants, each female underwent a series of i.c.v.
infusions of human CRH (0, 2, 8 and 25 μg) in 8 μl of artificial cerebrospinal
fluid. In the 70 min after infusion, marmosets were tested with one of their
infants, first in their home cage and, subsequently, in an unfamiliar cage in
which the infant was confined in a transparent box on the cage floor. In the home
cage, the highest dose of CRH significantly reduced the amount of time that
mothers spent carrying their infants, as compared to vehicle alone, although it
did not reliably affect aggression toward the infant or other behaviours. In the 
confined-infant test, the highest dose of CRH significantly reduced the amount of
time that mothers spent on the cage floor, increased mothers' vocalisation rates,
and tended to reduce their activity levels and time spent in proximity to their
infant. Twenty-five micrograms of CRH also elicited significant elevations in
plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone and cortisol concentrations compared to
vehicle. These results indicate that i.c.v.-administered CRH reduces maternal
behaviour in marmoset mothers, in both familiar and unfamiliar environments, but 
does not increase infant abuse.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Neuroendocrinology © 2011 Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02153.x 
PMCID: PMC3166357
PMID: 21554432  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1882. Primates. 2011 Oct;52(4):343-9. doi: 10.1007/s10329-011-0250-x. Epub 2011 May 7.

Possible organizational effect of sex steroids on the stabilization of manual
preference in female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Rego BS(1), Spyrides MH, de Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Potiguar University, Natal, RN, Brazil.

Handedness has been widely studied in nonhuman primates. However, few studies
investigate this behavior throughout ontogenetic development. To determine the
influence of developmental stage in common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) females,
we used six animals, which were observed in food-reaching tests involving
hand-use preference from the infantile to the adult phase. During this period,
fecal samples were collected for sexual hormone analysis (estrogen and
progesterone). The results point to correlations between age and stabilization of
manual preference across the developmental phases. A relationship between
progesterone and the intensity of hand use asymmetry was observed during the
pubertal period, when the data was grouped into three phases: prepubertal,
pubertal, and postpubertal. These data show increasing strength of hand
preference during ontogenetic development and that sexual hormones may be
involved in females.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-011-0250-x 
PMID: 21553197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

