

1886. Behav Pharmacol. 2011 Jun;22(3):269-74. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0b013e328345ca37.

A major metabolite of bupropion reverses motor deficits in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets.

Hansard MJ(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, School of Biomedical and Health
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

The atypical antidepressant, bupropion, causes a partial reversal of motor
deficits in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated primates.
However, its monoamine uptake blocking actions are believed to be mediated by the
major metabolites, racemic
(-)-(2R,3R)-2-(3-chlorophenyl-3,5,5-trimethyl-2-morphinol) (R,R-hydroxybupropion)
and (+)-(2S,3S)-2-(3-chlorophenyl-3,5,5-trimethyl-2-morphinol)
(S,S-hydroxybupropion). Therefore, we have evaluated the ability of enantiomers
to improve locomotor activity and motor disability in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets. Bupropion 
produced a little increase in locomotor activity and a more pronounced
improvement in motor disability. The S,S-hydroxybupropion, but not the
R,R-hydroxybupropion, enantiomer dose-dependently increased both locomotor
activity and reversed motor disability. Combined administration of
S,S-hydroxybupropion and R,R-hydroxybupropion at the same dose (analogous to the 
racemate) again improved motor function and to the same extent as produced by
S,S-hydroxybupropion alone. The data suggest that the S,S-enantiomer of
hydroxybupropion may possess potential antiparkinsonian activity.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0b013e328345ca37 
PMID: 21522056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1887. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 May 10;108(19):8015-20. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1102153108. Epub 2011 Apr 25.

Changes in cortical interneuron migration contribute to the evolution of the
neocortex.

Tanaka DH(1), Oiwa R, Sasaki E, Nakajima K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo 160-8582,
Japan.

The establishment of the mammalian neocortex is often explained phylogenetically 
by an evolutionary change in the pallial neuronal progenitors of excitatory
projection neurons. It remains unclear, however, whether and how the evolutionary
change in inhibitory interneurons, which originate outside the neocortex, has
been involved in the establishment of the neocortex. In this study, we
transplanted chicken, turtle, mouse, and marmoset medial ganglionic eminence
(MGE) cells into the embryonic mouse MGE in utero and compared their migratory
behaviors. We found that the MGE cells from all of the species were able to
migrate through the mouse neocortical subventricular zone and that both the mouse
and marmoset cells subsequently invaded the neocortical cortical plate (CP).
However, regardless of their birthdates and interneuron subtypes, most of the
chicken and turtle cells ignored the neocortical CP and passed beneath it,
although they were able to invade the archicortex and paleocortex, suggesting
that the proper responsiveness of MGE cells to guidance cues to enter the
neocortical CP is unique to mammals. When chicken MGE cells were transplanted
directly into the neocortical CP, they were able to survive and mature,
suggesting that the neocortical CP itself is essentially permissive for
postmigratory development of chicken MGE cells. These results suggest that an
evolutionary change in the migratory ability of inhibitory interneurons, which
originate outside the neocortex, was involved in the establishment of the
neocortex by supplying inhibitory components to the network.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1102153108 
PMCID: PMC3093493
PMID: 21518872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

