

1887. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 May 10;108(19):8015-20. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1102153108. Epub 2011 Apr 25.

Changes in cortical interneuron migration contribute to the evolution of the
neocortex.

Tanaka DH(1), Oiwa R, Sasaki E, Nakajima K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo 160-8582,
Japan.

The establishment of the mammalian neocortex is often explained phylogenetically 
by an evolutionary change in the pallial neuronal progenitors of excitatory
projection neurons. It remains unclear, however, whether and how the evolutionary
change in inhibitory interneurons, which originate outside the neocortex, has
been involved in the establishment of the neocortex. In this study, we
transplanted chicken, turtle, mouse, and marmoset medial ganglionic eminence
(MGE) cells into the embryonic mouse MGE in utero and compared their migratory
behaviors. We found that the MGE cells from all of the species were able to
migrate through the mouse neocortical subventricular zone and that both the mouse
and marmoset cells subsequently invaded the neocortical cortical plate (CP).
However, regardless of their birthdates and interneuron subtypes, most of the
chicken and turtle cells ignored the neocortical CP and passed beneath it,
although they were able to invade the archicortex and paleocortex, suggesting
that the proper responsiveness of MGE cells to guidance cues to enter the
neocortical CP is unique to mammals. When chicken MGE cells were transplanted
directly into the neocortical CP, they were able to survive and mature,
suggesting that the neocortical CP itself is essentially permissive for
postmigratory development of chicken MGE cells. These results suggest that an
evolutionary change in the migratory ability of inhibitory interneurons, which
originate outside the neocortex, was involved in the establishment of the
neocortex by supplying inhibitory components to the network.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1102153108 
PMCID: PMC3093493
PMID: 21518872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1888. Behav Processes. 2011 Jul;87(3):241-5. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.04.002. Epub
2011 Apr 20.

Immediate, but no delayed, behavioral response to a snake model by captive black 
tufted-ear marmosets.

Cagni P(1), Sampaio AC, Ribeiro NB, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Whether callitrichids are naturally capable of detecting and responding to
predators - or if such skills are learned - remains a controversial issue, with
results differing in terms of species, predator and encounter conditions.
Therefore, the behavioral response of naïve adult captive black tufted-ear
marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) was assessed before, during, 0 and 4 h after a
5-min encounter with a snake and flower model. Using a two-phase cross-over
design, marmosets (n = 16) were submitted to one trial for each stimulus, divided
into four 5-min intervals: pre-exposure, exposure and post-exposure observations 
held 0 and 4h later. The snake exposure increased the number of gazes made
towards the stimulus and the time cage-mates spent close to each other, as well
as induced tsik-tsik alarm/mobbing calls, while inhibiting foraging and
decreasing the time spent near the snake's location. After the snake was removed,
all changes were immediately reversed. Mobbing was not observed. The flower
stimulus only increased direct gazes and time spent in proximity during its
presentation. All marmosets were captive-born and snake-naïve yet had recently
been confronted with a cat stimulus in a previous experiment. Thus, previous
experiences with snakes may be required for marmosets to fully develop
appropriate immediate and long-term responses.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.04.002 
PMID: 21513778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

