

1888. Behav Processes. 2011 Jul;87(3):241-5. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.04.002. Epub
2011 Apr 20.

Immediate, but no delayed, behavioral response to a snake model by captive black 
tufted-ear marmosets.

Cagni P(1), Sampaio AC, Ribeiro NB, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Whether callitrichids are naturally capable of detecting and responding to
predators - or if such skills are learned - remains a controversial issue, with
results differing in terms of species, predator and encounter conditions.
Therefore, the behavioral response of naïve adult captive black tufted-ear
marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) was assessed before, during, 0 and 4 h after a
5-min encounter with a snake and flower model. Using a two-phase cross-over
design, marmosets (n = 16) were submitted to one trial for each stimulus, divided
into four 5-min intervals: pre-exposure, exposure and post-exposure observations 
held 0 and 4h later. The snake exposure increased the number of gazes made
towards the stimulus and the time cage-mates spent close to each other, as well
as induced tsik-tsik alarm/mobbing calls, while inhibiting foraging and
decreasing the time spent near the snake's location. After the snake was removed,
all changes were immediately reversed. Mobbing was not observed. The flower
stimulus only increased direct gazes and time spent in proximity during its
presentation. All marmosets were captive-born and snake-naïve yet had recently
been confronted with a cat stimulus in a previous experiment. Thus, previous
experiences with snakes may be required for marmosets to fully develop
appropriate immediate and long-term responses.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.04.002 
PMID: 21513778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1889. J Cell Physiol. 2011 Jul;226(7):1741-9. doi: 10.1002/jcp.22503.

Characterization of BCAR4, a novel oncogene causing endocrine resistance in human
breast cancer cells.

Godinho M(1), Meijer D, Setyono-Han B, Dorssers LC, van Agthoven T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Josephine Nefkens Institute, Erasmus MC, University
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Resistance to the antiestrogen tamoxifen remains a major problem in the
management of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. Knowledge on the
resistance mechanisms is needed to develop more effective therapies. Breast
cancer antiestrogen resistance 4 (BCAR4) was identified in a functional screen
for genes involved in tamoxifen resistance. BCAR4 is expressed in 27% of primary 
breast tumors. In patients treated with tamoxifen for metastized disease high
BCAR4 mRNA levels are associated with reduced clinical benefit and
progression-free survival. Regarding tumor aggressiveness high BCAR4 mRNA levels 
are associated with a shorter metastasis free survival and overall survival. In
the present study, we investigated the role of BCAR4 in endocrine resistance.
Forced expression of BCAR4 in human ZR-75-1 and MCF7 breast cancer cells resulted
in cell proliferation in the absence of estrogen and in the presence of various
antiestrogens. Inhibition of estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) expression with small
interfering RNA (siRNA), implied that the BCAR4-induced mechanism of resistance
is independent of ESR1. Highly conserved BCAR4 homologues of rhesus monkey, green
monkey, and the less conserved common marmoset gene induced tamoxifen-resistant
cell proliferation, in contrast to the distant BCAR4 homologues of bovine and
rabbit. Injection of BCAR4-expressing ZR-75-1 cells into nude mice resulted in
rapidly growing tumors. In silico analysis showed that BCAR4 mRNA is highly
expressed in human placenta and oocyte, and absent in other normal tissues. In
conclusion, BCAR4 is a strong transforming gene causing estrogen-independent
growth and antiestrogen resistance, and induces tumor formation in vivo. Due to
its restricted expression, BCAR4 may be a good target for treating
antiestrogen-resistant breast cancer.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.22503 
PMID: 21506106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

