

1889. J Cell Physiol. 2011 Jul;226(7):1741-9. doi: 10.1002/jcp.22503.

Characterization of BCAR4, a novel oncogene causing endocrine resistance in human
breast cancer cells.

Godinho M(1), Meijer D, Setyono-Han B, Dorssers LC, van Agthoven T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Josephine Nefkens Institute, Erasmus MC, University
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Resistance to the antiestrogen tamoxifen remains a major problem in the
management of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. Knowledge on the
resistance mechanisms is needed to develop more effective therapies. Breast
cancer antiestrogen resistance 4 (BCAR4) was identified in a functional screen
for genes involved in tamoxifen resistance. BCAR4 is expressed in 27% of primary 
breast tumors. In patients treated with tamoxifen for metastized disease high
BCAR4 mRNA levels are associated with reduced clinical benefit and
progression-free survival. Regarding tumor aggressiveness high BCAR4 mRNA levels 
are associated with a shorter metastasis free survival and overall survival. In
the present study, we investigated the role of BCAR4 in endocrine resistance.
Forced expression of BCAR4 in human ZR-75-1 and MCF7 breast cancer cells resulted
in cell proliferation in the absence of estrogen and in the presence of various
antiestrogens. Inhibition of estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) expression with small
interfering RNA (siRNA), implied that the BCAR4-induced mechanism of resistance
is independent of ESR1. Highly conserved BCAR4 homologues of rhesus monkey, green
monkey, and the less conserved common marmoset gene induced tamoxifen-resistant
cell proliferation, in contrast to the distant BCAR4 homologues of bovine and
rabbit. Injection of BCAR4-expressing ZR-75-1 cells into nude mice resulted in
rapidly growing tumors. In silico analysis showed that BCAR4 mRNA is highly
expressed in human placenta and oocyte, and absent in other normal tissues. In
conclusion, BCAR4 is a strong transforming gene causing estrogen-independent
growth and antiestrogen resistance, and induces tumor formation in vivo. Due to
its restricted expression, BCAR4 may be a good target for treating
antiestrogen-resistant breast cancer.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.22503 
PMID: 21506106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1890. Immunogenetics. 2011 Aug;63(8):485-99. doi: 10.1007/s00251-011-0526-8. Epub 2011 
Apr 20.

Comparative genome analysis of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I
B/C segments in primates elucidated by genomic sequencing in common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Shiina T(1), Kono A, Westphal N, Suzuki S, Hosomichi K, Kita YF, Roos C, Inoko H,
Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Division of Basic Medical Science and
Molecular Medicine, Tokai University School of Medicine, Shimokasuya, Isehara,
Kanagawa, Japan, tshiina@is.icc.u-tokai.ac.jp

Common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) have emerged as important animal
models for biomedical research, necessitating a more extensive characterization
of their major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region. However, the genomic
information of the marmoset MHC (Caja) is still lacking. The MHC-B/C segment
represents the most diverse MHC region among primates. Therefore, in this paper, 
to elucidate the detailed gene organization and evolutionary processes of the
Caja class I B (Caja-B) segment, we determined two parts of the Caja-B sequences 
with 1,079 kb in total, ranging from H6orf15 to BAT1 and compared the structure
and phylogeny with that of other primates. This segment contains 54 genes in
total, nine Caja-B genes (Caja-B1 to Caja-B9), two MIC genes (MIC1 and MIC2),
eight non-MHC genes, two non-coding genes, and 33 non-MHC pseudogenes that have
not been observed in other primate MHC-B/C segments. Caja-B3, Caja-B4, and
Caja-B7 encode proper MHC class I proteins according to amino acid structural
characteristics. Phylogenetic relationships based on 48 MHC-I nucleotide
sequences in primates suggested (1) species-specific divergence for Caja, Mamu,
and HLA/Patr/Gogo lineages, (2) independent generation of the "seven coding exon"
type MHC-B genes in Mamu and HLA/Patr/Gogo lineages from an ancestral "eight
coding exon" type MHC-I gene, (3) parallel correlation with the long and short
segmental duplication unit length in Caja and Mamu lineages. These findings
indicate that the MHC-B/C segment has been under permanent selective pressure in 
the evolution of primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-011-0526-8 
PMID: 21505866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

