

189. Sci Rep. 2021 Jan 27;11(1):2309. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-80000-1.

Cytotoxic Escherichia coli strains encoding colibactin, cytotoxic necrotizing
factor, and cytolethal distending toxin colonize laboratory common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

McCoy CS(1), Mannion AJ(1), Feng Y(1), Madden CM(1), Artim SC(1)(2), Au GG(1),
Dolan M(1), Haupt JL(1), Burns MA(1), Sheh A(1), Fox JG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Building 16-825, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA.
(2)Merck Research Laboratories, Merck, South San Francisco, CA, 94080, USA.
(3)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Building 16-825, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA.
jgfox@mit.edu.

Cyclomodulins are virulence factors that modulate cellular differentiation,
apoptosis, and proliferation. These include colibactin (pks), cytotoxic
necrotizing factor (cnf), and cytolethal distending toxin (cdt). Pathogenic pks+,
cnf+, and cdt+ E. coli strains are associated with inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD) and colorectal cancer in humans and animals. Captive marmosets are
frequently afflicted with IBD-like disease, and its association with
cyclomodulins is unknown. Cyclomodulin-encoding E. coli rectal isolates were
characterized using PCR-based assays in healthy and clinically affected marmosets
originating from three different captive sources. 139 E. coli isolates were
cultured from 122 of 143 marmosets. The pks gene was detected in 56 isolates
(40%), cnf in 47 isolates (34%), and cdt in 1 isolate (0.7%). The prevalences of 
pks+ and cnf+ E. coli isolates were significantly different between the three
marmoset colonies. 98% of cyclomodulin-positive E. coli belonged to phylogenetic 
group B2. Representative isolates demonstrated cyclomodulin cytotoxicity, and
serotyping and whole genome sequencing were consistent with pathogenic E. coli
strains. However, the presence of pks+, cnf+, or cdt+ E. coli did not correlate
with clinical gastrointestinal disease in marmosets. Cyclomodulin-encoding E.
coli colonize laboratory common marmosets in a manner dependent on the source,
potentially impacting reproducibility in marmoset models.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-80000-1 
PMCID: PMC7841143
PMID: 33504843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Anim Microbiome. 2021 Jan 5;3(1):1. doi: 10.1186/s42523-020-00062-4.

Changes in the faecal microbiome of pied tamarins (Saguinus bicolor) associated
with chronic, recurrent diarrhoea and weight loss.

Richards-Rios P(1), Wigley P(2), López J(3), Wormell D(4), Barbón A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Veterinary Science, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
prich@liverpool.ac.uk.
(2)Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, 
UK.
(3)Chester Zoo, Chester, UK.
(4)Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, Channel Islands, Jersey, France.

BACKGROUND: Chronic recurrent diarrhoea and weight loss is a common problem in
captive callitrichids. These symptoms are common clinical features of marmoset
wasting syndrome (MWS), a chronic enteric inflammation of unknown aetiology
associated with mortality in captive marmosets. The unknown aetiology of the
condition presents problems for conservation projects where affected colonies
present higher mortality and lower birth rates. Since a role for the microbiome
has been established in chronic enteric inflammation of other species it is
possible that the intestinal microbiome undergoes similar changes during MWS.
RESULTS: The faecal microbiome of pied tamarins (Saguinus bicolor) at Jersey Zoo 
was determined using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing to compare the composition
of the faecal microbiome of tamarins affected by chronic recurrent diarrhoea and 
weight loss with unaffected individuals. Affected individuals had a higher
relative abundance of amplicon sequence variants assigned to Lactobacillus and
Helicobacter jaachi while unaffected individuals had a higher relative abundance 
of some Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae.
CONCLUSIONS: Although Helicobacter has been shown to reside in healthy wild and
captive marmosets and tamarins and appears to form part of the normal microbiota,
the results of this study raise the prospect that certain species of Helicobacter
may be associated with chronic, recurrent diarrhoea in captive callitrichids. The
presence of Lactobacillus may also play a role in the development of MWS. Since
depletion of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae have been linked to chronic
gastrointestinal inflammation in humans, this feature of the microbiome of
affected tamarins provides another avenue of further research in the pathogenesis
of MWS.

DOI: 10.1186/s42523-020-00062-4 
PMCID: PMC7934480
PMID: 33500002 

