

1893. J Physiol. 2011 Jun 1;589(Pt 11):2795-812. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2010.194076.
Epub 2011 Apr 11.

Transmission of colour and acuity signals by parvocellular cells in marmoset
monkeys.

Martin PR(1), Blessing EM, Buzás P, Szmajda BA, Forte JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney Eye
Hospital Campus, GPO Box 4337, Sydney, NSW 2001, Australia.
prmartin@sydney.edu.au

The red-green axis of colour vision evolved recently in primate evolutionary
history. Signals serving red-green colour vision travel together with signals
serving spatial vision, in the parvocellular (PC) division of the subcortical
visual pathway. However, the question of whether receptive fields of PC pathway
cells are specialized to transmit red-green colour signals remains unresolved. We
addressed this question in single-cell recordings from the lateral geniculate
nucleus of anaesthetized marmosets. Marmosets show a high proportion of
dichromatic (red-green colour-blind) individuals, allowing spatial and colour
tuning properties of PC cells to be directly compared in dichromatic and
trichromatic visual systems. We measured spatial frequency tuning for sine
gratings that provided selective stimulation of individual photoreceptor types.
We found that in trichromatic marmosets, the foveal visual field representation
is dominated by red-green colour-selective PC cells. Colour selectivity of PC
cells is reduced at greater eccentricities, but cone inputs to centre and
surround are biased to create more selectivity than predicted by a purely 'random
wiring' model. Thus, one-to-one connections in the fovea are sufficient, but not 
necessary, to create colour-selective responses. The distribution of spatial
tuning properties for achromatic stimuli shows almost complete overlap between PC
cells recorded in dichromatic and trichromatic marmosets. These data indicate
that transmission of red-green colour signals has been enabled by centre-surround
receptive fields of PC cells, and has not altered the capacity of PC cells to
serve high-acuity vision at high stimulus contrast.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2010.194076 
PMCID: PMC3112556
PMID: 21486786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1894. Andrologia. 2011 Jun;43(3):167-73. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2009.01038.x. Epub
2011 Feb 25.

Protamine-1 represents a sperm specific gene transcript: a study in Callithrix
jacchus and Bos taurus.

Hecht N(1), Cavalcanti MC, Nayudu P, Behr R, Reichenbach M, Weidner W, Steger K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Pediatric Urology and Andrology, Justus Liebig
University, Giessen, Germany. klaus.steger@chiru.med.uni-giessen.de 

Spermatozoa are transcriptionally inactive cells, but contain acetylated
histones, normally a characteristic of transcriptionally active cells.
Acetylgroups are thought to represent epigenetic marks that are transmitted to
the oocyte and are involved in starting gene expression in the zygote and in
regulating gene expression during early embryogenesis. We performed reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) and in bovine spermatozoa, oocytes, zygotes, two- and
four-cell embryos to evaluate the presence of specific transcripts known to play 
a role during fertilisation and early embryo development, namely protamine-1
(PRM1), protamine-2 (PRM2), histone H1 (H1), histone H3 (H3), histone H4 (H4),
cAMP-responsive element modulator (CREM), DNA methyltransferase-1 (DNMT1), TATA
box-binding protein (TBP). All transcripts tested were present in spermatozoa of 
the common marmoset, while bull spermatozoa lack PRM2. Marmoset oocytes exhibited
transcripts for H1, H3, H4 and TBP, whereas bovine oocytes revealed H1, H3, H4,
CREM, DNMT and TBP mRNAs. In zygotes, we amplified H1, H4, TBP (marmoset) and
PRM1, H1, H3, H4, CREM, DNMT1 and TBP (bovine). Two-cell embryos showed PCR
products for H1, H3 and TBP in the marmoset. In the bovine, all transcripts could
be observed except PRM2. In four-cell embryos, PCR signals were obtained for
PRM1, H1, H3, H4 and TBP in the marmoset. In the bovine, all transcripts were
detected except PRM2. Our data suggest that, in both C. jacchus and Bos taurus,
PRM1 transcripts are delivered by the spermatozoon to the oocyte.

© 2011 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2009.01038.x 
PMID: 21486395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

