

1895. J Sex Med. 2011 Jun;8(6):1616-25. doi: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2011.02246.x. Epub
2011 Apr 7.

Role of a novel tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channel in the nitrergic relaxation
of corpus cavernosum from the South American rattlesnake Crotalus durissus
terrificus.

Capel RO(1), Mónica FZ, Porto M, Barillas S, Muscará MN, Teixeira SA, Arruda AM, 
Pissinatti L, Pissinatti A, Schenka AA, Antunes E, Nahoum C, Cogo JC, de Oliveira
MA, De Nucci G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of
Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, SP, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Coitus in snakes may last up to 28 hours; however, the mechanisms
involved are unknown.
AIM: To evaluate the relevance of the nitric oxide (NO)-cyclic guanosine
monophosphate (cGMP)-phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) system in snake corpus
cavernosum reactivity.
METHODS: Hemipenes were removed from anesthetized South American rattlesnakes
(Crotalus durissus terrificus) and studied by light and scanning electronic
microscopy. Isolated Crotalus corpora cavernosa (CCC) were dissected from the
non-spiny region of the hemipenises, and tissue reactivity was assessed in organ 
baths.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cumulative concentration-response curves were constructed 
for acetylcholine (ACh), sodium nitroprusside (SNP),
5-cyclopropyl-2-[1-(2-fluorobenzyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridine-3-yl]pyrimidin-4-y
lamine (BAY 41-2272), and tadalafil in CCC precontracted with phenylephrine.
Relaxation induced by electrical field stimulation (EFS) was also done in the
absence and presence of N(ω) nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 100 µM),
1H-[1, 2, 4] oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ; 10 µM) and tetrodotoxin
(TTX; 1 µM).
RESULTS: The hemipenes consisted of two functionally concentric corpora
cavernosa, one of them containing radiating bundles of smooth muscle fibers
(confirmed by α-actin immunostaining). Endothelial and neural nitric oxide
synthases were present in the endothelium and neural structures, respectively;
whereas soluble guanylate cyclase and PDE5 were expressed in trabecular smooth
muscle. ACh and SNP relaxed isolated CCC, with the relaxations being markedly
reduced by L-NAME and ODQ, respectively. BAY 41-2272 and tadalafil caused
sustained relaxations with potency (pEC(50) ) values of 5.84 ± 0.17 and 5.10 ±
0.08 (N=3-4), respectively. In precontracted CCC, EFS caused frequency-dependent 
relaxations that lasted three times longer than those in mammalian CC. Although
these relaxations were almost abolished by either L-NAME or ODQ, they were
unaffected by TTX. In contrast, EFS-induced relaxations in marmoset CC were
abolished by TTX.
CONCLUSIONS: Rattlesnake CC relaxation is mediated by the NO-cGMP-PDE5 pathway in
a manner similar to mammals. The novel TTX-resistant Na channel identified here
may be responsible for the slow response of smooth muscle following nerve
stimulation and could explain the extraordinary duration of snake coitus.

© 2011 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2011.02246.x 
PMID: 21477017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1896. Am J Primatol. 2011 Sep;73(9):852-60. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20952. Epub 2011 Mar 31.

Predation risk and the interspecific association of two Brazilian Atlantic forest
primates in Cabruca agroforest.

Oliveira LC(1), Dietz JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA.
leonardoco@gmail.com

Forming interspecific associations is one of many strategies adopted by primates 
in order to avoid predation. In addition to improved predator detection and
avoidance, benefits of interspecific associations relate to improved foraging
efficiency. In this study we tested these two hypotheses explaining associations 
between the endangered golden-headed lion tamarin, Leontopithecus chrysomelas and
the sympatric Wied's marmoset, Callithrix kuhlii. We estimated predation risk by 
recording the number of encounters between lion tamarins and potential predators 
in cabruca agroforest (shaded cacao plantation) and in mosaic forest (a mix of
cabruca, primary and secondary forest). To evaluate if the association between
the two species was related to foraging benefits we recorded the number of
associations between the two species when the lion tamarins were eating and when 
they were not eating. To test if the association occurred to improve predator
detection and avoidance, we evaluated if associations between the species were
more frequent in areas with higher predation risk and during the part of the day 
when predation risk is higher. We also compared the number of associations 3
months before birth events and 3 months after, when the lion tamarins are more
susceptible to predation. Predation risk, mainly by raptors, was significantly
higher in cabruca than in mosaic forest (0.17 and 0.05 encounters with predators 
per hour of observation, respectively). Associations were significantly more
frequent after birth events and during the part of the day when predation risk
was also higher (5-6 am until noon). We did not observe any direct evidence of
foraging-related advantages of interspecific associations for the lion tamarins. 
The tamarins did not associate more when they were foraging. Our findings suggest
that lion tamarins are more exposed to predation in cabruca than in mosaic forest
and associations between lion tamarins and Wied's marmosets are related to
predation avoidance.

© 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20952 
PMID: 21455950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

