

1898. J Comp Neurol. 2011 Aug 1;519(11):2135-53. doi: 10.1002/cne.22586.

Synaptic inputs to two types of koniocellular pathway ganglion cells in marmoset 
retina.

Percival KA(1), Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney,
Australia.

The retinal connectivity of the diverse group of cells contributing to
koniocellular visual pathways (widefield ganglion cells) is largely unexplored.
Here we examined the synaptic inputs onto two koniocellular-projecting ganglion
cell types named large sparse and broad thorny cells. Ganglion cells were labeled
by retrograde tracer injections targeted to koniocellular layer K3 in the lateral
geniculate nucleus in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and subsequently
photofilled. Retinal preparations were processed with antibodies against the
C-terminal binding protein 2, the AMPA receptor subunit GluR4, and against CD15
to identify bipolar (excitatory) and/or antibodies against gephyrin to identify
amacrine (inhibitory) input. Large sparse cells are narrowly stratified close to 
the ganglion cell layer. Broad thorny ganglion cells are broadly stratified in
the center of the inner plexiform layer. Bipolar input to large sparse cells
derives from DB6 and maybe other ON bipolar types, whereas that to broad thorny
cells derives from ON and OFF bipolar cell types. The total number of putative
synapses on broad thorny cells is higher than the number on large sparse cells
but the density of inputs (between 2 and 5 synapses per 100 μm(2) dendritic area)
is similar for the two cell types, indicating that the larger number of synapses 
on broad thorny cells is attributable to the larger membrane surface area of this
cell type. Synaptic input density is comparable to previous values for
midget-parvocellular and parasol-magnocellular pathway cells. This suggests
functional differences between koniocellular, parvocellular, and magnocellular
pathways do not arise from variation in synaptic input densities.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22586 
PMID: 21452222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1899. Stroke. 2011 May;42(5):1412-9. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.596650. Epub 2011 Mar
24.

Diffusion tensor MRI reveals chronic alterations in white matter despite the
absence of a visible ischemic lesion on conventional MRI: a nonhuman primate
study.

Bihel E(1), Roussel S, Toutain J, Bernaudin M, Touzani O.

Author information: 
(1)CERVOxy, Hypoxia and Cerebrovascular Pathophysiology, CI-NAPS UMR-6232,
University of Caen, 59, Boulevard Henri Becquerel BP5229, Caen, France 14074.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The impact of stroke on white matter is poorly described 
in preclinical investigations mainly based on rodents with a low white (WM)/gray 
matter ratio. Using diffusion tensor imaging, we evaluated WM alterations and
correlated them with sensorimotor deficits after stroke in the marmoset, a
nonhuman primate that displays a WM/gray matter ratio close to that of humans.
METHODS: Marmosets underwent a transient brain ischemia (3-hour). Eight serial
MRI examinations were made during ischemia and up to 45 days after reperfusion.
The sensorimotor deficits were evaluated weekly over 45 days. To assess WM
alterations, the SD of the angle of the first eigenvector projection was
calculated in the cortex and in the internal and external capsules. The
fiber-tracking approach was used to measure the number and the length of bundles.
RESULTS: Changes in the apparent diffusion coefficient and the fractional
anisotropy values were similar during the temporal evolution of the lesion in the
marmoset model of ischemia to that reported in patients with stroke. Despite an
absence of visible lesions on T2-MRI and diffusion tensor imaging at the chronic 
stage, diffusion tensor MRI evidenced alterations in WM by the increase in the
standard deviation of the angle of the first eigenvector projection in the
cortex, internal and external capsules, and the decrease in the number of bundles
of fibers tracked. The disruption of WM was strongly correlated with the chronic 
sensorimotor deficits.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an absence of a visible ischemic lesion at the chronic
stage, diffusion tensor MRI revealed disorganization of WM, which probably
underlies the persistence of functional deficits.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.596650 
PMID: 21441158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

