

1899. Stroke. 2011 May;42(5):1412-9. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.596650. Epub 2011 Mar
24.

Diffusion tensor MRI reveals chronic alterations in white matter despite the
absence of a visible ischemic lesion on conventional MRI: a nonhuman primate
study.

Bihel E(1), Roussel S, Toutain J, Bernaudin M, Touzani O.

Author information: 
(1)CERVOxy, Hypoxia and Cerebrovascular Pathophysiology, CI-NAPS UMR-6232,
University of Caen, 59, Boulevard Henri Becquerel BP5229, Caen, France 14074.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The impact of stroke on white matter is poorly described 
in preclinical investigations mainly based on rodents with a low white (WM)/gray 
matter ratio. Using diffusion tensor imaging, we evaluated WM alterations and
correlated them with sensorimotor deficits after stroke in the marmoset, a
nonhuman primate that displays a WM/gray matter ratio close to that of humans.
METHODS: Marmosets underwent a transient brain ischemia (3-hour). Eight serial
MRI examinations were made during ischemia and up to 45 days after reperfusion.
The sensorimotor deficits were evaluated weekly over 45 days. To assess WM
alterations, the SD of the angle of the first eigenvector projection was
calculated in the cortex and in the internal and external capsules. The
fiber-tracking approach was used to measure the number and the length of bundles.
RESULTS: Changes in the apparent diffusion coefficient and the fractional
anisotropy values were similar during the temporal evolution of the lesion in the
marmoset model of ischemia to that reported in patients with stroke. Despite an
absence of visible lesions on T2-MRI and diffusion tensor imaging at the chronic 
stage, diffusion tensor MRI evidenced alterations in WM by the increase in the
standard deviation of the angle of the first eigenvector projection in the
cortex, internal and external capsules, and the decrease in the number of bundles
of fibers tracked. The disruption of WM was strongly correlated with the chronic 
sensorimotor deficits.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an absence of a visible ischemic lesion at the chronic
stage, diffusion tensor MRI revealed disorganization of WM, which probably
underlies the persistence of functional deficits.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.110.596650 
PMID: 21441158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1900. J Appl Toxicol. 2012 Sep;32(9):673-86. doi: 10.1002/jat.1671. Epub 2011 Mar 24.

Calibration and validation of a physiologically based model for soman
intoxication in the rat, marmoset, guinea pig and pig.

Chen K(1), Seng KY.

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering Laboratory, Defence Medical and Environmental Research
Institute, DSO National Laboratories, 27 Medical Drive, Singapore, 117510,
Republic of Singapore.

A physiologically based pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PBPK/PD) model has
been developed for low, medium and high levels of soman intoxication in the rat, 
marmoset, guinea pig and pig. The primary objective of this model was to describe
the pharmacokinetics of soman after intravenous, intramuscular and subcutaneous
administration in the rat, marmoset, guinea pig, and pig as well as its
subsequent pharmacodynamic effects on blood acetylcholinesterase (AChE) levels,
relating dosimetry to physiological response. The reactions modelled in each
physiologically realistic compartment are: (1) partitioning of C(±)P(±) soman
from the blood into the tissue; (2) inhibition of AChE and carboxylesterase (CaE)
by soman; (3) elimination of soman by enzymatic hydrolysis; (4) de novo synthesis
and degradation of AChE and CaE; and (5) aging of AChE-soman and CaE-soman
complexes. The model was first calibrated for the rat, then extrapolated for
validation in the marmoset, guinea pig and pig. Adequate fits to experimental
data on the time course of soman pharmacokinetics and AChE inhibition were
achieved in the mammalian models. In conclusion, the present model adequately
predicts the dose-response relationship resulting from soman intoxication and can
potentially be applied to predict soman pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in 
other species, including human.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.1671 
PMID: 21433037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

