

1900. J Appl Toxicol. 2012 Sep;32(9):673-86. doi: 10.1002/jat.1671. Epub 2011 Mar 24.

Calibration and validation of a physiologically based model for soman
intoxication in the rat, marmoset, guinea pig and pig.

Chen K(1), Seng KY.

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering Laboratory, Defence Medical and Environmental Research
Institute, DSO National Laboratories, 27 Medical Drive, Singapore, 117510,
Republic of Singapore.

A physiologically based pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PBPK/PD) model has
been developed for low, medium and high levels of soman intoxication in the rat, 
marmoset, guinea pig and pig. The primary objective of this model was to describe
the pharmacokinetics of soman after intravenous, intramuscular and subcutaneous
administration in the rat, marmoset, guinea pig, and pig as well as its
subsequent pharmacodynamic effects on blood acetylcholinesterase (AChE) levels,
relating dosimetry to physiological response. The reactions modelled in each
physiologically realistic compartment are: (1) partitioning of C(±)P(±) soman
from the blood into the tissue; (2) inhibition of AChE and carboxylesterase (CaE)
by soman; (3) elimination of soman by enzymatic hydrolysis; (4) de novo synthesis
and degradation of AChE and CaE; and (5) aging of AChE-soman and CaE-soman
complexes. The model was first calibrated for the rat, then extrapolated for
validation in the marmoset, guinea pig and pig. Adequate fits to experimental
data on the time course of soman pharmacokinetics and AChE inhibition were
achieved in the mammalian models. In conclusion, the present model adequately
predicts the dose-response relationship resulting from soman intoxication and can
potentially be applied to predict soman pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in 
other species, including human.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.1671 
PMID: 21433037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1901. J Neurosci. 2011 Feb 23;31(8):2965-73. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4920-10.2011.

Altered neural responses to sounds in primate primary auditory cortex during
slow-wave sleep.

Issa EB(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.

How sounds are processed by the brain during sleep is an important question for
understanding how we perceive the sensory environment in this unique behavioral
state. While human behavioral data have indicated selective impairments of sound 
processing during sleep, brain imaging and neurophysiology studies have reported 
that overall neural activity in auditory cortex during sleep is surprisingly
similar to that during wakefulness. This responsiveness to external stimuli
leaves open the question of how neural responses during sleep differ, if at all, 
from wakefulness. Using extracellular neural recordings in the primary auditory
cortex of naturally sleeping common marmosets, we show that slow-wave sleep (SWS)
alters neural responses in the primate auditory cortex in two specific ways. SWS 
reduced the sensitivity of auditory cortex such that quiet sounds elicited weak
responses in SWS compared with wakefulness, while loud sounds evoked similar
responses in SWS and wakefulness. Furthermore, SWS reduced the extent of
sound-evoked response suppression. This pattern of alterations was not observed
during rapid eye movement sleep and could not be easily explained by the presence
of slow rhythms in SWS. The alteration of excitatory and inhibitory responses
during SWS suggests limitations in auditory processing and provides novel
insights for understanding why certain sounds are processed while others are
missed during deep sleep.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4920-10.2011 
PMCID: PMC3758555
PMID: 21414918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

