

1901. J Neurosci. 2011 Feb 23;31(8):2965-73. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4920-10.2011.

Altered neural responses to sounds in primate primary auditory cortex during
slow-wave sleep.

Issa EB(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.

How sounds are processed by the brain during sleep is an important question for
understanding how we perceive the sensory environment in this unique behavioral
state. While human behavioral data have indicated selective impairments of sound 
processing during sleep, brain imaging and neurophysiology studies have reported 
that overall neural activity in auditory cortex during sleep is surprisingly
similar to that during wakefulness. This responsiveness to external stimuli
leaves open the question of how neural responses during sleep differ, if at all, 
from wakefulness. Using extracellular neural recordings in the primary auditory
cortex of naturally sleeping common marmosets, we show that slow-wave sleep (SWS)
alters neural responses in the primate auditory cortex in two specific ways. SWS 
reduced the sensitivity of auditory cortex such that quiet sounds elicited weak
responses in SWS compared with wakefulness, while loud sounds evoked similar
responses in SWS and wakefulness. Furthermore, SWS reduced the extent of
sound-evoked response suppression. This pattern of alterations was not observed
during rapid eye movement sleep and could not be easily explained by the presence
of slow rhythms in SWS. The alteration of excitatory and inhibitory responses
during SWS suggests limitations in auditory processing and provides novel
insights for understanding why certain sounds are processed while others are
missed during deep sleep.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4920-10.2011 
PMCID: PMC3758555
PMID: 21414918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1902. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2011 Apr 15;407(3):491-4. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.03.044. Epub 2011 Mar 23.

Telomerase inhibition promotes an initial step of cell differentiation of primate
embryonic stem cell.

Maeda T(1), Kurita R, Yokoo T, Tani K, Makino N.

Author information: 
(1)The Division of Clinical Gerontology, The Department of Molecular and Cellular
Biology, Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Japan.
maedat@beppu.kyushu-u.ac.jp

Embryonic stem (ES) cell is well known as a totipotent cell, which is derived
from a blastcyst and has potential to differentiate into every kind of somatic
cell. ES cell bears self-renewal characteristic as well as differentiation
potential. ES cell bears telomerase activity to avoid telomere shortening, which 
is a characteristic of differentiated somatic cells. As the differentiation of ES
cells proceeds, their telomerase activity is losing. However, it has not been
convinced whether suppression of the telomerase activity promotes progression of 
ES cell differentiation. The effect of telomerase inhibitor on the
differentiation potential of marmoset ES cell was assessed, counting cells
expressing embryonic markers (alkaline phosphatase and TPA-1-60) under existence 
of a telomerase inhibitor. Telomerase inhibitor showed a promotional effect for
the marmoset ES cell differentiation. This result suggests that exogenous
inhibition of telomerase activity leads to induction of an early differentiation 
of primate ES cell.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.03.044 
PMID: 21414297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

