

1902. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2011 Apr 15;407(3):491-4. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.03.044. Epub 2011 Mar 23.

Telomerase inhibition promotes an initial step of cell differentiation of primate
embryonic stem cell.

Maeda T(1), Kurita R, Yokoo T, Tani K, Makino N.

Author information: 
(1)The Division of Clinical Gerontology, The Department of Molecular and Cellular
Biology, Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Japan.
maedat@beppu.kyushu-u.ac.jp

Embryonic stem (ES) cell is well known as a totipotent cell, which is derived
from a blastcyst and has potential to differentiate into every kind of somatic
cell. ES cell bears self-renewal characteristic as well as differentiation
potential. ES cell bears telomerase activity to avoid telomere shortening, which 
is a characteristic of differentiated somatic cells. As the differentiation of ES
cells proceeds, their telomerase activity is losing. However, it has not been
convinced whether suppression of the telomerase activity promotes progression of 
ES cell differentiation. The effect of telomerase inhibitor on the
differentiation potential of marmoset ES cell was assessed, counting cells
expressing embryonic markers (alkaline phosphatase and TPA-1-60) under existence 
of a telomerase inhibitor. Telomerase inhibitor showed a promotional effect for
the marmoset ES cell differentiation. This result suggests that exogenous
inhibition of telomerase activity leads to induction of an early differentiation 
of primate ES cell.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2011.03.044 
PMID: 21414297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1903. ILAR J. 2011;52(1):78-88.

The development of small primate models for aging research.

Fischer KE, Austad SN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center in San
Antonio, USA.

Nonhuman primate (NHP) aging research has traditionally relied mainly on the
rhesus macaque. But the long lifespan, low reproductive rate, and relatively
large body size of macaques and related Old World monkeys make them less than
ideal models for aging research. Manifold advantages would attend the use of
smaller, more rapidly developing, shorter-lived NHP species in aging studies, not
the least of which are lower cost and the ability to do shorter research
projects. Arbitrarily defining "small" primates as those weighing less than 500
g, we assess small, relatively short-lived species among the prosimians and
callitrichids for suitability as models for human aging research. Using the
criteria of availability, knowledge about (and ease of) maintenance, the
possibility of genetic manipulation (a hallmark of 21st century biology), and
similarities to humans in the physiology of age-related changes, we suggest three
species--two prosimians (Microcebus murinus and Galago senegalensis) and one New 
World monkey (Callithrix jacchus)--that deserve scrutiny for development as major
NHP models for aging studies. We discuss one other New World monkey group, Cebus 
spp., that might also be an effective NHP model of aging as these species are
longer-lived for their body size than any primate except humans.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.52.1.78 
PMCID: PMC4422641
PMID: 21411860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

