

1904. ILAR J. 2011;52(1):54-65.

The marmoset as a model of aging and age-related diseases.

Tardif SD(1), Mansfield KG, Ratnam R, Ross CN, Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, 15355 Lambda Drive, STCBM Bldg 2.200.08, San
Antonio, TX 78245, USA. tardif@uthscsa.edu

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is poised to become a standard nonhuman 
primate aging model. With an average lifespan of 5 to 7 years and a maximum
lifespan of 16½ years, marmosets are the shortest-lived anthropoid primates. They
display age-related changes in pathologies that mirror those seen in humans, such
as cancer, amyloidosis, diabetes, and chronic renal disease. They also display
predictable age-related differences in lean mass, calf circumference, circulating
albumin, hemoglobin, and hematocrit. Features of spontaneous sensory and
neurodegenerative change--for example, reduced neurogenesis, ß-amyloid deposition
in the cerebral cortex, loss of calbindin D(28k) binding, and evidence of
presbycusis--appear between the ages of 7 and 10 years. Variation among colonies 
in the age at which neurodegenerative change occurs suggests the interesting
possibility that marmosets could be specifically managed to produce earlier
versus later occurrence of degenerative conditions associated with differing
rates of damage accumulation. In addition to the established value of the
marmoset as a model of age-related neurodegenerative change, this primate can
serve as a model of the integrated effects of aging and obesity on metabolic
dysfunction, as it displays evidence of such dysfunction associated with high
body weight as early as 6 to 8 years of age.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.52.1.54 
PMCID: PMC3775658
PMID: 21411858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1905. J Neurosci. 2011 Mar 16;31(11):4290-7. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5066-10.2011.

Dopamine, but not serotonin, regulates reversal learning in the marmoset caudate 
nucleus.

Clarke HF(1), Hill GJ, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
3EB, United Kingdom. hfc23@cam.ac.uk

Studies of visual discrimination reversal learning have revealed striking
neurochemical dissociations at the level of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) with
serotoninergic, but not dopaminergic, integrity being important for successful
reversal learning. These findings have considerable implications for disorders
such as obsessive compulsive disorder and schizophrenia, in which reversal
learning is impaired, and which are primarily treated with drugs targeting the
dopaminergic and serotoninergic systems. Dysfunction in such disorders however,
is not limited to the OFC and extends subcortically to other structures
implicated in reversal learning, such as the medial caudate nucleus. Therefore,
because the roles of the serotonin and dopamine within the caudate nucleus are
poorly understood, this study compared the effects of selective serotoninergic or
selective dopaminergic depletions of the marmoset medial caudate nucleus on
serial discrimination reversal learning. All monkeys were able to learn novel
stimulus-reward associations but, unlike control monkeys and monkeys with
selective serotoninergic medial caudate depletions, dopamine-depleted monkeys
were markedly impaired in their ability to reverse this association. This
impairment was not perseverative in nature. These findings are the opposite of
those seen in the OFC and provide evidence for a neurochemical double
dissociation between the OFC and medial caudate in the regulation of reversal
learning. Although the specific contributions of these monoamines within the
OFC-striatal circuit remain to be elucidated, these findings have profound
implications for the development of drugs designed to remediate some of the
cognitive processes underlying impaired reversal learning.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5066-10.2011 
PMCID: PMC3083841
PMID: 21411670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

