

1907. Am J Bioeth. 2011 Mar;11(3):31-2. doi: 10.1080/15265161.2010.546474.

The distinction between parthenotes and embryos is not easily made.

Schwartz PH(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Human Neural Stem Cell Resource, Children’s Hospital of Orange County
Research Institute, 455 South Main Street, Orange, CA 92868-3874, USA.
pschwartz@choc.org

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2011 Mar;11(3):20-8.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161.2010.546474 
PMID: 21400382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1908. Immunogenetics. 2011 Jul;63(7):417-28. doi: 10.1007/s00251-011-0519-7. Epub 2011 
Mar 10.

Molecular evolution of immunoglobulin superfamily genes in primates.

Ohtani H(1), Nakajima T, Akari H, Ishida T, Kimura A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pathogenesis, Medical Research Institute, and
Laboratory of Genome Diversity, Graduate School of Biomedical Science, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8510, Japan.

Genes of the immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF) have a wide variety of cellular
activities. In this study, we investigated molecular evolution of IgSF genes in
primates by comparing orthologous sequences of 249 IgSF genes among human,
chimpanzee, orangutan, rhesus macaque, and common marmoset. To evaluate the
non-synonymous/synonymous substitution ratio (ω), we applied Bn-Bs program and
PAML program. IgSF genes were classified into 11 functional categories based on
the Gene Ontology (GO) database. Among them, IgSF genes in three functional
categories, immune system process (GO:0002376), defense response (GO:0006952),
and multi-organism process (GO:0051704), which are tightly linked to the
regulation of immune system had much higher values of ω than genes in the other
GO categories. In addition, we estimated the average values of ω for each primate
lineage. Although each primate lineage had comparable average values of ω, the
human lineage showed the lowest ω value for the immune-related genes.
Furthermore, 11 IgSF genes, SIGLEC5, SLAMF6, CD33, CD3E, CEACAM8, CD3G, FCER1A,
CD48, CD4, TIM4, and FCGR2A, were implied to have been under positive selective
pressure during the course of primate evolution. Further sequence analyses of
CD3E and CD3G from 23 primate species suggested that the Ig domains of CD3E and
CD3G underwent the positive Darwinian selection.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-011-0519-7 
PMID: 21390552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

