

1909. PLoS Comput Biol. 2011 Feb;7(2):e1001078. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1001078. Epub
2011 Feb 24.

Power-law input-output transfer functions explain the contrast-response and
tuning properties of neurons in visual cortex.

Persi E(1), Hansel D, Nowak L, Barone P, van Vreeswijk C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurophysique et Physiologie, Université Paris Descartes,
Paris, France.

We develop a unified model accounting simultaneously for the contrast invariance 
of the width of the orientation tuning curves (OT) and for the sigmoidal shape of
the contrast response function (CRF) of neurons in the primary visual cortex
(V1). We determine analytically the conditions for the structure of the afferent 
LGN and recurrent V1 inputs that lead to these properties for a hypercolumn
composed of rate based neurons with a power-law transfer function. We investigate
what are the relative contributions of single neuron and network properties in
shaping the OT and the CRF. We test these results with numerical simulations of a
network of conductance-based model (CBM) neurons and we demonstrate that they are
valid and more robust here than in the rate model. The results indicate that
because of the acceleration in the transfer function, described here by a
power-law, the orientation tuning curves of V1 neurons are more tuned, and their 
CRF is steeper than those of their inputs. Last, we show that it is possible to
account for the diversity in the measured CRFs by introducing heterogeneities
either in single neuron properties or in the input to the neurons. We show how
correlations among the parameters that characterize the CRF depend on these
sources of heterogeneities. Comparison with experimental data suggests that both 
sources contribute nearly equally to the diversity of CRF shapes observed in V1
neurons.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1001078 
PMCID: PMC3044767
PMID: 21390280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1910. Neuroimage. 2011 Jun 1;56(3):1154-63. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.02.075. Epub
2011 Mar 3.

Rapid high-resolution three-dimensional mapping of T1 and age-dependent
variations in the non-human primate brain using magnetization-prepared rapid
gradient-echo (MPRAGE) sequence.

Liu JV(1), Bock NA, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1065, USA. liu@junjie.com

The use of quantitative T(1) mapping in neuroscience and neurology has raised
strong interest in the development of T(1)-mapping techniques that can measure
T(1) in the whole brain, with high accuracy and precision and within short
imaging and computation times. Here, we present a new inversion-recovery (IR)
based T(1)-mapping method using a standard 3D magnetization-prepared rapid
gradient-echo (MPRAGE) sequence. By varying only the inversion time (TI), but
keeping other parameters constant, MPRAGE image signals become linear to
exp(-TI/T(1)), allowing for accurate T(1) estimation without flip angle
correction. We also show that acquiring data at just 3 TIs, with the three
different TI values optimized, gives maximum T(1) precision per unit time,
allowing for new efficient approaches to measure and compute T(1). We demonstrate
the use of our method at 7 T to obtain 3D T(1) maps of the whole brain in common 
marmosets at 0.60mm resolution and within 11 min. T(1) maps from the same
individuals were highly reproducible across different days. Across subjects, the 
peak of cerebral gray matter T(1) distribution was 1735±52 ms, and the lower edge
of cerebral white matter T(1) distribution was 1270±43 ms. We found a significant
decrease of T(1) in both gray and white matter of the marmoset brain with age
over a span of 14 years, in agreement with previous human studies. This
application illustrates that MPRAGE-based 3D T(1) mapping is rapid, accurate and 
precise, and can facilitate high-resolution anatomical studies in neuroscience
and neurological diseases.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.02.075 
PMCID: PMC3085577
PMID: 21376814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

