

1911. Primates. 2011 Apr;52(2):171-8. doi: 10.1007/s10329-011-0237-7. Epub 2011 Mar 2.

The positional behavior of pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea) in northwestern
Bolivia.

Jackson CP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Northern Illinois University, Dekalb, IL 60115, USA. cpjackson@siu.edu

Pygmy marmosets are distinctive given their diminutive body size, their
year-round reliance upon exudates, and their use of morphologically adapted
tegulae to engage in a high degree of claw-clinging behaviors associated with
exudate exploitation. This project examined the positional behavior and habitat
preferences of one group of pygmy marmosets in a secondary forest within the
Department of Pando, northwestern Bolivia. Results from this study indicate that 
pygmy marmosets primarily use claw-clinging during feeding (89.6%) with
preferential use of large vertical trunks. Claw-clinging was also the dominant
postural mode during exudate foraging (43.1%) with preferential use of large
vertical trunks. Quadrupedalism was the dominant locomotor mode during travel
(55.7%) with preferential use of bamboo and medium-sized substrates. These
results support previous notions that claw-climbing is a solution to overcome the
constraints of small body size while suggesting that quadrupedalism is a
habitat-dependent locomotor mode.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-011-0237-7 
PMID: 21360318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1912. Vaccine. 2011 Apr 5;29(16):2850-5. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.02.005. Epub 2011 
Feb 18.

Neurovirulence safety testing of mumps vaccines--historical perspective and
current status.

Rubin SA(1), Afzal MA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, United States Food and Drug
Administration, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. steven.rubin@fda.hhs.gov

Many live, attenuated viral vaccines are derived from wild type viruses with
known neurovirulent properties. To assure the absence of residual neurotoxicity, 
pre-clinical neurovirulence safety testing of candidate vaccines is performed.
For mumps virus, a highly neurotropic virus, neurovirulence safety testing is
performed in monkeys. However, laboratory studies suggest an inability of this
test to correctly discern among virus strains of varying neurovirulence potential
in man, and, further, some vaccines found to be neuroattenuated in monkeys were
later found to be neurovirulent in humans when administered in large numbers.
Over the past decade, concerted efforts have been made to replace monkey-based
neurovirulence safety testing with more informative, alternative methods. This
review summarizes the current status of mumps vaccine neurovirulence safety
testing and insights into models currently approved and those under development.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.02.005 
PMID: 21334386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

