

1912. Vaccine. 2011 Apr 5;29(16):2850-5. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.02.005. Epub 2011 
Feb 18.

Neurovirulence safety testing of mumps vaccines--historical perspective and
current status.

Rubin SA(1), Afzal MA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, United States Food and Drug
Administration, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. steven.rubin@fda.hhs.gov

Many live, attenuated viral vaccines are derived from wild type viruses with
known neurovirulent properties. To assure the absence of residual neurotoxicity, 
pre-clinical neurovirulence safety testing of candidate vaccines is performed.
For mumps virus, a highly neurotropic virus, neurovirulence safety testing is
performed in monkeys. However, laboratory studies suggest an inability of this
test to correctly discern among virus strains of varying neurovirulence potential
in man, and, further, some vaccines found to be neuroattenuated in monkeys were
later found to be neurovirulent in humans when administered in large numbers.
Over the past decade, concerted efforts have been made to replace monkey-based
neurovirulence safety testing with more informative, alternative methods. This
review summarizes the current status of mumps vaccine neurovirulence safety
testing and insights into models currently approved and those under development.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.02.005 
PMID: 21334386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1913. Am J Primatol. 2011 Apr;73(4):378-85. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20909. Epub 2010 Dec 6.

Social and developmental influences on urinary androgen levels in young male
white-faced marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Birnie AK(1), Smith AS, Nali C, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska
68182, USA. abirnie@unomaha.edu

Callitrichine primates (marmosets and tamarins) often remain in their natal
groups beyond the time of sexual maturity. Although studies have characterized
the development of female reproductive function in callitrichine offspring, less 
is known about the male reproductive development. To document reproductive
development in male marmosets, we monitored urinary androgen (uA) excretion in
males housed in a captive colony of white-faced marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).
Young male marmosets showed relatively low and stable rates of uA excretion early
in life, with elevated production at the end of the juvenile period (9-10 months)
and again at the onset of adulthood (16 months). uA levels of adult breeding
males were also measured to compare to adult-aged sons. Although breeding males
did have higher uA levels than their adult-aged sons, these differences did not
reach conventional levels of significance. Evidence from some other reports has
suggested that androgen levels of males in other species are influenced by social
factors, such as the presence of a sexually receptive female or of dependent
offspring. In this study, however, uA levels did not vary, based on their
mothers' pregnancy status or the presence of younger siblings in the natal group.
Patterns of androgen excretion in the white-faced marmoset roughly reflect those 
of other callitrichine species. Furthermore, unlike callitrichine daughters,
gonadal activity in sons does not seem to be sensitive to within-group social
cues.

Â© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20909 
PMCID: PMC3086337
PMID: 21328596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

