

1913. Am J Primatol. 2011 Apr;73(4):378-85. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20909. Epub 2010 Dec 6.

Social and developmental influences on urinary androgen levels in young male
white-faced marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Birnie AK(1), Smith AS, Nali C, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska
68182, USA. abirnie@unomaha.edu

Callitrichine primates (marmosets and tamarins) often remain in their natal
groups beyond the time of sexual maturity. Although studies have characterized
the development of female reproductive function in callitrichine offspring, less 
is known about the male reproductive development. To document reproductive
development in male marmosets, we monitored urinary androgen (uA) excretion in
males housed in a captive colony of white-faced marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).
Young male marmosets showed relatively low and stable rates of uA excretion early
in life, with elevated production at the end of the juvenile period (9-10 months)
and again at the onset of adulthood (16 months). uA levels of adult breeding
males were also measured to compare to adult-aged sons. Although breeding males
did have higher uA levels than their adult-aged sons, these differences did not
reach conventional levels of significance. Evidence from some other reports has
suggested that androgen levels of males in other species are influenced by social
factors, such as the presence of a sexually receptive female or of dependent
offspring. In this study, however, uA levels did not vary, based on their
mothers' pregnancy status or the presence of younger siblings in the natal group.
Patterns of androgen excretion in the white-faced marmoset roughly reflect those 
of other callitrichine species. Furthermore, unlike callitrichine daughters,
gonadal activity in sons does not seem to be sensitive to within-group social
cues.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20909 
PMCID: PMC3086337
PMID: 21328596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1914. Oncogene. 2011 Jun 30;30(26):2921-32. doi: 10.1038/onc.2011.16. Epub 2011 Feb 14.

Functional interaction of Ugene and EBV infection mediates tumorigenic effects.

Wang LT(1), Lin CS, Chai CY, Liu KY, Chen JY, Hsu SH.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is associated with many human neoplasms, in
which EBV-derived latent membrane protein-1 (LMP1) appears to be critical, but
its exact oncogenic mechanism remains to be defined. To this end, our initial
microarray analyses identified a LMP1-inducible gene, Ugene, originally
characterized as a binding partner for uracil DNA glycosylase 2, which is highly 
expressed in malignant colon cancer. In this report, it was found that Ugene,
designated herein as LMP1-induced protein (LMPIP), was induced, in a
time-dependent manner, in EBV-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells and
LMP1-transfected 293 cells. Functionally, when compared with mock-transfected
cells, overexpression of LMPIP in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cell lines
resulted in a decrease in reactive oxygen species production and maintained
mitochondria membrane potential (Δψ) loss induced by H(2)O(2). The NPC cells
transfected with LMPIP also showed a decrease in G1 population and an increase in
the cell population in sub-G1 and multiploid phase, concomitant with increased
levels of cell cycle activators, including cyclin D1 and CDK4. In contrast,
silencing of LMPIP expression in the NPC tumor cell lines with short hairpin RNA 
interference revealed significantly decreased cell population at G1/S phase,
while the number of cells in multiploid phase increased. Significantly, NPC cells
with LMPIP knock-down also showed a decrease in tumorigenic and transforming
activity induced by ectopic LMP1 expression, as determined by analyses of soft
agar foci and tumor size in nude mice. Further, elevated LMPIP expression was
also noted in cytoplasm and nuclei in EBV-infected NPC tumor cell mass and
non-EBV-infected tumor cell lines. These results suggested that LMPIP may have an
important mediator role in EBV-mediated neoplasm and may serve as a new target
for therapy of tumors induced by EBV infection.

DOI: 10.1038/onc.2011.16 
PMID: 21317926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

