

1915. Hear Res. 2011 Jul;277(1-2):127-33. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2011.02.001. Epub 2011 
Feb 12.

Measurement of absolute auditory thresholds in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Osmanski MS(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
michael.osmanski@jhu.edu

The common marmoset is a small, arboreal, New World primate that has emerged as a
promising non-human model system in auditory neuroscience. A complete
understanding of the neuroethology of auditory processing in marmosets will
include behavioral work examining how sounds are perceived by these animals.
However, there have been few studies of the marmoset's hearing and perceptual
abilities and the audiogram of this species has not been measured using modern
psychophysical methods. The present experiment pairs psychophysics with an
operant conditioning technique to examine perception of pure tone stimuli by
marmosets using an active behavioral paradigm. Subjects were trained to lick at a
feeding tube when they detected a sound. Correct responses provided access to a
food reward. Pure tones of varying intensities were presented to subjects using
the method of constant stimuli. Behavioral thresholds were calculated for each
animal based on hit rate--threshold was defined by the tone intensity that the
animal correctly identified 50% of the time. Results show that marmoset hearing
is comparable to that of other New World monkeys, with a hearing range extending 
from about 125 Hz up to 36 kHz and a sensitivity peak around 7 kHz.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2011.02.001 
PMCID: PMC3123402
PMID: 21303689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1916. Drug Metab Rev. 2011 Aug;43(3):346-61. doi: 10.3109/03602532.2010.549492. Epub
2011 Feb 9.

Macaque cytochromes P450: nomenclature, transcript, gene, genomic structure, and 
function.

Uno Y(1), Iwasaki K, Yamazaki H, Nelson DR.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacokinetics and Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, 
Ltd., Kainan, Japan. uno-yasuhiro@snbl.co.jp

Monkeys, especially macaques, including cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis) and
rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta), are frequently used in drug metabolism studies
due to their evolutionary closeness to humans. Recently, numerous cytochrome P450
(P450 or CYP) cDNAs have been identified and characterized in cynomolgus and
rhesus monkeys and were named by the P450 Nomenclature Committee. However, recent
advances in genome analysis of cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys revealed that some
monkey P450s are apparently orthologous to human P450s and thus need to be
renamed corresponding to their human orthologs. In this review, we focus on the
P450s identified in cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys and present an overview of the 
identity and functional characteristics of each P450 cDNA in the CYP1-4 families.
Information on the Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata), African green monkey
(Cercopithecus aethiops), and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), primate species used
in some drug metabolism studies, are also included. We compared the genomic
structure of the macaque P450 genes to those of human and rat P450 genes in the
CYP1-4 families. Based on sequence identity, phylogeny, and genomic organization 
of monkey P450s, we determined orthologous relationships of monkey P450s and, in 
this article, propose a revised nomenclature: CYP2B17/CYP2B30 to CYP2B6,
CYP2C20/CYP2C74 to CYP2C8, CYP2C43/CYP2C83 to CYP2C9, CYP2C75 to CYP2C19, CYP2F6 
to CYP2F1, CYP3A8/CYP3A21/CYP3A64 to CYP3A4, CYP3A66 to CYP3A5, and CYP4F45 to
CYP4F2. The information presented in this review is expected to promote a better 
understanding of monkey P450 genes through comparative genomics and thereby make 
it more feasible to use monkeys in drug metabolism studies.

DOI: 10.3109/03602532.2010.549492 
PMID: 21303270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

