

1916. Drug Metab Rev. 2011 Aug;43(3):346-61. doi: 10.3109/03602532.2010.549492. Epub
2011 Feb 9.

Macaque cytochromes P450: nomenclature, transcript, gene, genomic structure, and 
function.

Uno Y(1), Iwasaki K, Yamazaki H, Nelson DR.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacokinetics and Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, 
Ltd., Kainan, Japan. uno-yasuhiro@snbl.co.jp

Monkeys, especially macaques, including cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis) and
rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta), are frequently used in drug metabolism studies
due to their evolutionary closeness to humans. Recently, numerous cytochrome P450
(P450 or CYP) cDNAs have been identified and characterized in cynomolgus and
rhesus monkeys and were named by the P450 Nomenclature Committee. However, recent
advances in genome analysis of cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys revealed that some
monkey P450s are apparently orthologous to human P450s and thus need to be
renamed corresponding to their human orthologs. In this review, we focus on the
P450s identified in cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys and present an overview of the 
identity and functional characteristics of each P450 cDNA in the CYP1-4 families.
Information on the Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata), African green monkey
(Cercopithecus aethiops), and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), primate species used
in some drug metabolism studies, are also included. We compared the genomic
structure of the macaque P450 genes to those of human and rat P450 genes in the
CYP1-4 families. Based on sequence identity, phylogeny, and genomic organization 
of monkey P450s, we determined orthologous relationships of monkey P450s and, in 
this article, propose a revised nomenclature: CYP2B17/CYP2B30 to CYP2B6,
CYP2C20/CYP2C74 to CYP2C8, CYP2C43/CYP2C83 to CYP2C9, CYP2C75 to CYP2C19, CYP2F6 
to CYP2F1, CYP3A8/CYP3A21/CYP3A64 to CYP3A4, CYP3A66 to CYP3A5, and CYP4F45 to
CYP4F2. The information presented in this review is expected to promote a better 
understanding of monkey P450 genes through comparative genomics and thereby make 
it more feasible to use monkeys in drug metabolism studies.

DOI: 10.3109/03602532.2010.549492 
PMID: 21303270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1917. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2011 Mar;144(3):392-410. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.21421. Epub 2010 
Nov 29.

Comparative microcomputed tomography and histological study of maxillary
pneumatization in four species of new world monkeys: the perinatal period.

Smith TD(1), Rossie JB, Cooper GM, Schmieg RM, Bonar CJ, Mooney MP, Siegel MI.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock, PA, USA. 
timothy.smith@sru.edu

In anthropoid primates, it has been hypothesized that the magnitude of maxillary 
sinus growth is influenced by adjacent dental and soft tissue matrices.
Relatively, little comparative evidence exists for the perinatal period when
secondary pneumatization is at its earliest stages in some primates. Here, dental
and midfacial variables were studied in a perinatal sample of four anthropoid
primates, including three callitrichines (Leontopithecus, Saguinus, and
Callithrix) and Saimiri boliviensis. In the latter species, the maxillary recess 
(the ontogenetic precursor to a "true" maxillary sinus) does not undergo
secondary pneumatization. Using histological methods and micro-computed
tomography, midfacial and dental dimensions and radiographic hydroxyapatite
density of tooth cusps were measured. The distribution of osteoclasts and
osteoblasts was also documented. Kruskal-Wallis's one-way analysis of variance
tests indicates significant (P < 0.05) differences among groups for dental and
midfacial measurements. In particular, the posterior maxillary dentition is
relatively larger and more mineralized in Saimiri compared to the callitrichines.
At posterior dental levels, Saimiri has the lowest palatonasal index [interdental
(palatal) width/width of the nasal cavity] and highest bizygomatic-interorbital
index. Distribution of osteoclasts indicates that the inferomedial surfaces of
the orbits are resorptive in perinatal Saimiri, whereas, in all callitrichines,
these surfaces are depository. Taken together, these findings suggest that
pneumatization in Saimiri is suppressed by an inward growth trajectory of the
orbits, relatively large posterior dentition, and a correspondingly compressed
nasal region.

Copyright Â© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.21421 
PMID: 21302266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

