

1917. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2011 Mar;144(3):392-410. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.21421. Epub 2010 
Nov 29.

Comparative microcomputed tomography and histological study of maxillary
pneumatization in four species of new world monkeys: the perinatal period.

Smith TD(1), Rossie JB, Cooper GM, Schmieg RM, Bonar CJ, Mooney MP, Siegel MI.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock, PA, USA. 
timothy.smith@sru.edu

In anthropoid primates, it has been hypothesized that the magnitude of maxillary 
sinus growth is influenced by adjacent dental and soft tissue matrices.
Relatively, little comparative evidence exists for the perinatal period when
secondary pneumatization is at its earliest stages in some primates. Here, dental
and midfacial variables were studied in a perinatal sample of four anthropoid
primates, including three callitrichines (Leontopithecus, Saguinus, and
Callithrix) and Saimiri boliviensis. In the latter species, the maxillary recess 
(the ontogenetic precursor to a "true" maxillary sinus) does not undergo
secondary pneumatization. Using histological methods and micro-computed
tomography, midfacial and dental dimensions and radiographic hydroxyapatite
density of tooth cusps were measured. The distribution of osteoclasts and
osteoblasts was also documented. Kruskal-Wallis's one-way analysis of variance
tests indicates significant (P < 0.05) differences among groups for dental and
midfacial measurements. In particular, the posterior maxillary dentition is
relatively larger and more mineralized in Saimiri compared to the callitrichines.
At posterior dental levels, Saimiri has the lowest palatonasal index [interdental
(palatal) width/width of the nasal cavity] and highest bizygomatic-interorbital
index. Distribution of osteoclasts indicates that the inferomedial surfaces of
the orbits are resorptive in perinatal Saimiri, whereas, in all callitrichines,
these surfaces are depository. Taken together, these findings suggest that
pneumatization in Saimiri is suppressed by an inward growth trajectory of the
orbits, relatively large posterior dentition, and a correspondingly compressed
nasal region.

Copyright © 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.21421 
PMID: 21302266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1918. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2011 Aug 1;35(6):1499-504. doi:
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.021. Epub 2011 Feb 26.

Reading marmoset behavior 'semantics' under particular social context by
multi-parameters correlation analysis.

Koshiba M(1), Mimura K, Sugiura Y, Okuya T, Senoo A, Ishibashi H, Nakamura S.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, Japan.

Social interactions are a fundamental aspect of human and animal behavior.
Although neuroimaging and other non-invasive methods have progressed recently,
the neurobiology of social behavior requires the use of animal models. Here, we
introduced a multi-behavior parameter integration method and applied it to
female-male interaction of adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Based on 
the correlated parameters and meeting context, we found that the behavioral
endpoints clustered in four distinct categories, which could be interpreted as
active, freeze, alert, and affinity emotional states. The relevance of this
interpretation was supported as the female behavior category change positively
correlated with serum cortisol and progesterone levels after social interaction. 
Thus, our multi-behavior parameter integration method may be useful to evaluate
social emotionality in animal models, as well as to quantify social behavior in
human psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.021 
PMID: 21300127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

