

1918. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2011 Aug 1;35(6):1499-504. doi:
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.021. Epub 2011 Feb 26.

Reading marmoset behavior 'semantics' under particular social context by
multi-parameters correlation analysis.

Koshiba M(1), Mimura K, Sugiura Y, Okuya T, Senoo A, Ishibashi H, Nakamura S.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, Japan.

Social interactions are a fundamental aspect of human and animal behavior.
Although neuroimaging and other non-invasive methods have progressed recently,
the neurobiology of social behavior requires the use of animal models. Here, we
introduced a multi-behavior parameter integration method and applied it to
female-male interaction of adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Based on 
the correlated parameters and meeting context, we found that the behavioral
endpoints clustered in four distinct categories, which could be interpreted as
active, freeze, alert, and affinity emotional states. The relevance of this
interpretation was supported as the female behavior category change positively
correlated with serum cortisol and progesterone levels after social interaction. 
Thus, our multi-behavior parameter integration method may be useful to evaluate
social emotionality in animal models, as well as to quantify social behavior in
human psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.021 
PMID: 21300127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1919. Neurosci Res. 2011 May;70(1):128-32. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2011.01.016. Epub 2011
Feb 1.

Internet-based atlas of the primate spinal cord.

Tokuno H(1), Tanaka I, Senoo A, Umitsu Y, Akazawa T, Nakamura Y, Watson C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for Neuroscience, 
Fuchu, Tokyo 183-8526, Japan. tokuno-hr@igakuken.or.jp

In 2009, we reported an online brain atlas of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) at http://marmoset-brain.org:2008. Here we report new digital images of 
the primate spinal cord sections added to the website. We prepared histological
sections of every segment of the spinal cord of the common marmoset, rhesus
monkey and Japanese monkey with various staining techniques. The sections were
scanned with Carl Zeiss MIRAX SCAN at light microscopic resolution. Obtained
digital data were processed and converted into multi-resolutionary images with
Adobe Photoshop and Zoomify Design. These images of the primate spinal cords are 
now available on the web via the Internet.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2011.01.016 
PMID: 21291922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

