

1920. J Chem Ecol. 2011 Feb;37(2):145-9. doi: 10.1007/s10886-011-9911-x. Epub 2011 Jan 
27.

Why feed on fungi? The nutritional content of sporocarps consumed by buffy-headed
marmosets, Callithrix flaviceps (Primates: Callitrichidae), in southeastern
Brazil.

Hilário RR(1), Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systematics and Ecology, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, Cidade
Universitária, João Pessoa, PB, Brazil. renatohilario@gmail.com

The typical diet of Callithrix marmosets is based on gums, although fungi are the
dietary staple of a single group of Callithrix flaviceps studied in the Augusto
Ruschi Biological Reserve, in southeastern Brazil. Here, we present the
nutritional composition of two species of Mycocitrus fungi consumed by C.
flaviceps, and discuss possible determinants of the preference of the marmosets
for fungi over gums. The fungi were high in sugar/fiber and poor in proteins, and
were similar in composition to the gums exploited by other marmosets and to the
fungi consumed by Callimico goeldii. The reduced protein content of the fungi may
be offset by the arthropod component of the diet of the Callithrix flaviceps
study group. The low relative metabolic rate and enlarged cecum of Callithrix
enable these marmosets to exploit foods with a high fiber content. In addition,
the greater digestibility of chitin in comparison with plant fiber may make fungi
a nutritionally more valuable resource to marmosets than gums. Marmosets, thus,
may prefer to feed on fungi when an adequate supply of this resource is available
in the environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10886-011-9911-x 
PMID: 21271277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1921. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2011 Mar;37(3):493-501. doi:
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2010.11.010. Epub 2011 Jan 21.

A comparison of the imaging performance of high resolution ultrasound scanners
for preclinical imaging.

Moran CM(1), Pye SD, Ellis W, Janeczko A, Morris KD, McNeilly AS, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Physics, Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences, The Queens Medical
Research Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
Carmel.Moran@ed.ac.uk

Nine ultrasound transducers from six ultrasound scanners were assessed for their 
utility for preclinical ultrasound imaging. The transducers were: L8-16, L10-22
(Diasus; Dynamic Imaging Ltd., Livingston, UK); L17-5, L15-7io (iU22; Philips,
Seattle, WA, USA), HFL38/13-6 (MicroMaxx; Sonosite Inc., Bothell, WA, USA); il3Lv
(Vivid 5; GE, Fairfield, CT, USA), RMV 704 (Vevo 770; Visualsonics Inc., Toronto,
Canada) and MS550S, MS550D (Vevo 2100; Visualsonics Inc.). A quantitative
analysis of the ultrasound images from all nine transducers employed measurements
of the resolution integral as an indication of the versatility and technology of 
the ultrasound scanners. Two other parameters derived from the resolution
integral, the characteristic resolution and depth of field, were used to
characterise imaging performance. Six of these transducers were also assessed
qualitatively by ultrasonically scanning 59 female common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) yielding a total of 215 scans. The quantitative measurements for each of
the transducers were consistent with the results obtained in the qualitative in
vivo assessment. Over a 0-10 mm imaging depth, the values of the resolution
integral, characteristic resolution and depth of field, measured using the
Edinburgh Pipe Phantom, ranged in magnitude from 7-72, 93-930 μm and 3.3-9.2 mm
respectively. The largest resolution integrals were obtained using the Vevo 770
and Vevo 2100 scanners. The Edinburgh Pipe Phantom provides a quantitative method
of characterising the imaging performance of preclinical imaging scanners.

Copyright © 2011 World Federation for Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2010.11.010 
PMCID: PMC3183231
PMID: 21256667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

