

1921. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2011 Mar;37(3):493-501. doi:
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2010.11.010. Epub 2011 Jan 21.

A comparison of the imaging performance of high resolution ultrasound scanners
for preclinical imaging.

Moran CM(1), Pye SD, Ellis W, Janeczko A, Morris KD, McNeilly AS, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Physics, Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences, The Queens Medical
Research Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
Carmel.Moran@ed.ac.uk

Nine ultrasound transducers from six ultrasound scanners were assessed for their 
utility for preclinical ultrasound imaging. The transducers were: L8-16, L10-22
(Diasus; Dynamic Imaging Ltd., Livingston, UK); L17-5, L15-7io (iU22; Philips,
Seattle, WA, USA), HFL38/13-6 (MicroMaxx; Sonosite Inc., Bothell, WA, USA); il3Lv
(Vivid 5; GE, Fairfield, CT, USA), RMV 704 (Vevo 770; Visualsonics Inc., Toronto,
Canada) and MS550S, MS550D (Vevo 2100; Visualsonics Inc.). A quantitative
analysis of the ultrasound images from all nine transducers employed measurements
of the resolution integral as an indication of the versatility and technology of 
the ultrasound scanners. Two other parameters derived from the resolution
integral, the characteristic resolution and depth of field, were used to
characterise imaging performance. Six of these transducers were also assessed
qualitatively by ultrasonically scanning 59 female common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) yielding a total of 215 scans. The quantitative measurements for each of
the transducers were consistent with the results obtained in the qualitative in
vivo assessment. Over a 0-10 mm imaging depth, the values of the resolution
integral, characteristic resolution and depth of field, measured using the
Edinburgh Pipe Phantom, ranged in magnitude from 7-72, 93-930 μm and 3.3-9.2 mm
respectively. The largest resolution integrals were obtained using the Vevo 770
and Vevo 2100 scanners. The Edinburgh Pipe Phantom provides a quantitative method
of characterising the imaging performance of preclinical imaging scanners.

Copyright © 2011 World Federation for Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2010.11.010 
PMCID: PMC3183231
PMID: 21256667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1922. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 May;39(9):3710-23. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkq1325. Epub 2011
Jan 18.

Species-specific microRNA roles elucidated following astrocyte activation.

Mor E(1), Cabilly Y, Goldshmit Y, Zalts H, Modai S, Edry L, Elroy-Stein O,
Shomron N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine,
George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978,
Israel.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that play a central role in
regulation of gene expression by binding to target genes. Many miRNAs were
associated with the function of the central nervous system (CNS) in health and
disease. Astrocytes are the CNS most abundant glia cells, providing support by
maintaining homeostasis and by regulating neuronal signaling, survival and
synaptic plasticity. Astrocytes play a key role in repair of brain insults, as
part of local immune reactivity triggered by inflammatory or pathological
conditions. Thus, astrocyte activation, or astrogliosis, is an important outcome 
of the innate immune response, which can be elicited by endotoxins such as
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines such as interferon-gamma (IFN-γ). The
involvement of miRNAs in inflammation and stress led us to hypothesize that
astrogliosis is mediated by miRNA function. In this study, we compared the miRNA 
regulatory layer expressed in primary cultured astrocyte derived from rodents
(mice) and primates (marmosets) brains upon exposure to LPS and IFN-γ. We
identified subsets of differentially expressed miRNAs some of which are shared
with other immunological related systems while others, surprisingly, are mouse
and rat specific. Of interest, these specific miRNAs regulate genes involved in
the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) signaling pathway, indicating a
miRNA-based species-specific regulation. Our data suggests that miRNA function is
more significant in the mechanisms governing astrocyte activation in rodents
compared to primates.

© The Author(s) 2011. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkq1325 
PMCID: PMC3089466
PMID: 21247879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

