

1924. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2011 Aug 1;35(6):1493-8. doi:
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.008. Epub 2011 Jan 14.

Effects of constant daylight exposure during early development on marmoset
psychosocial behavior.

Senoo A(1), Okuya T, Sugiura Y, Mimura K, Honda Y, Tanaka I, Kodama T, Tokuno H, 
Yui K, Nakamura S, Usui S, Koshiba M.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, 184-8588, Japan.

Due to global industrialization, the light cycle is shifting to longer daytime.
Mounting evidence indicates that social developmental disorders may correlate
with longer periods of daytime in childhood. However, the exact mechanisms of
this link remain unclear. To examine the impact of longer day-time on
psychosocial development, we developed a novel non-human primate model, using the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) reared under constant daylight from birth.
Marmosets were reared individually by human nursing under constant light (LL)
during varying periods in juvenile development, and their behaviors were compared
with those of normal day-night cycle (LD) marmosets by multivariate analysis
based on principal component analysis (PCA). LL marmosets elicited egg-like calls
(e-call) less in juvenile period, and displayed side-to-side shakes of the upper 
body with rapid head rotation through adulthood frequently. Based on the PCA,
these behaviors were interpreted as 'alert' or 'hyperactive' states.
Additionally, behavioral development of marmosets reared under constant dark (DD)
was markedly different from both LD and LL marmosets, suggesting the fundamental 
importance of daylight-dependent neuronal and endocrine processes and entrainment
by a constant 24-hour light/dark cycle on psychosocial behavior development.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.008 
PMID: 21238530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1925. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2011 Apr;197(4):329-37.
doi: 10.1007/s00359-010-0617-2. Epub 2011 Jan 12.

Oxytocin changes primate paternal tolerance to offspring in food transfer.

Saito A(1), Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive and Behavioral Science, Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

Oxytocin facilitates social recognition in rats and mice, onset of maternal
behavior in virgin mice and formation of pair bonds without copulation in prairie
voles. However, the relationship between this peptide and paternal behavior in
primates remains largely unknown. We investigated whether oxytocin affects
paternal behavior in common marmosets. In these primates, fathers as well as
mothers take care of their infants, and transferring food to the infants is one
of their more obvious caretaking behaviors. We tested whether oxytocin and an
oxytocin receptor antagonist affect the transfer of food to offspirng by fathers.
After intracerebroventricular infusion of the vehicle, oxytocin, or the oxytocin 
receptor antagonist, the fathers' behavior, including picking up food,
transferring food to the offspring, and refusing to transfer food to the
offspring, was analyzed. Compared with the vehicle, oxytocin reduced the
frequency of refusal. This was not caused by reduction of appetite. Although the 
oxytocin receptor antagonist did not change the frequency of refusal behavior of 
the fathers statistically significant manner, these observations suggest that the
tolerance of the adult male marmoset toward its offspring as shown by the
transfer of food is increased by oxytocin administered into the central nervous
system.

© Springer-Verlag 2011

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-010-0617-2 
PMID: 21225271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

