

1925. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2011 Apr;197(4):329-37.
doi: 10.1007/s00359-010-0617-2. Epub 2011 Jan 12.

Oxytocin changes primate paternal tolerance to offspring in food transfer.

Saito A(1), Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive and Behavioral Science, Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

Oxytocin facilitates social recognition in rats and mice, onset of maternal
behavior in virgin mice and formation of pair bonds without copulation in prairie
voles. However, the relationship between this peptide and paternal behavior in
primates remains largely unknown. We investigated whether oxytocin affects
paternal behavior in common marmosets. In these primates, fathers as well as
mothers take care of their infants, and transferring food to the infants is one
of their more obvious caretaking behaviors. We tested whether oxytocin and an
oxytocin receptor antagonist affect the transfer of food to offspirng by fathers.
After intracerebroventricular infusion of the vehicle, oxytocin, or the oxytocin 
receptor antagonist, the fathers' behavior, including picking up food,
transferring food to the offspring, and refusing to transfer food to the
offspring, was analyzed. Compared with the vehicle, oxytocin reduced the
frequency of refusal. This was not caused by reduction of appetite. Although the 
oxytocin receptor antagonist did not change the frequency of refusal behavior of 
the fathers statistically significant manner, these observations suggest that the
tolerance of the adult male marmoset toward its offspring as shown by the
transfer of food is increased by oxytocin administered into the central nervous
system.

Â© Springer-Verlag 2011

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-010-0617-2 
PMID: 21225271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1926. J Proteome Res. 2011 Apr 1;10(4):1548-57. doi: 10.1021/pr1009367. Epub 2011 Feb
22.

Evolutionary glycomics: characterization of milk oligosaccharides in primates.

Tao N(1), Wu S, Kim J, An HJ, Hinde K, Power ML, Gagneux P, German JB, Lebrilla
CB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Davis, California 95616,
United States.

Free oligosaccharides are abundant components of mammalian milk and have primary 
roles as prebiotic compounds, in immune defense, and in brain development. A mass
spectrometry-based technique is applied to profile milk oligosaccharides from
apes (chimpanzee, gorilla, and siamang), new world monkeys (golden lion tamarin
and common marmoset), and an old world monkey (rhesus). The purpose of this study
is to evaluate the patterns of primate milk oligosaccharide composition from a
phylogenetic perspective to assess the extent to which the compositions of HMOs
derives from ancestral primate patterns as opposed to more recent evolutionary
events. Milk oligosaccharides were quantitated by nanoflow liquid chromatography 
on chip-based devices. The relative abundances of fucosylated and sialylated milk
oligosaccharides in primates were also determined. For a systematic and
comprehensive study of evolutionary patterns of milk oligosaccharides, cluster
analysis of primate milk was performed using the chromatographic profile. In
general, the oligosaccharides in primate milk, including humans, are more complex
and exhibit greater diversity compared to the ones in nonprimate milk. A detailed
comparison of the oligosaccharides across evolution revealed nonsequential
developmental pattern, that is, that primate milk oligosaccharides do not
necessarily cluster according to the primate phylogeny. This report represents
the first comprehensive and quantitative effort to profile and elucidate the
structures of free milk oligosaccharides so that they can be related to glycan
function in different primates.

DOI: 10.1021/pr1009367 
PMCID: PMC3070053
PMID: 21214271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

