

1929. ILAR J. 2011;52(3):386-92. doi: 10.1093/ilar.52.3.386.

Workshop summary: neotropical primates in biomedical research.

Tardif SD, Abee CR, Mansfield KG.

This report summarizes presentations and discussions at an NIH-sponsored workshop
on Neotropical Primates in Biomedical Research, held in September 2010.
Neotropical primates (New World monkeys), with their smaller size, faster
maturation, and shorter lifespans than Old World monkeys, are efficient models
and present unique opportunities for studying human health and disease. After
overviews of the most commonly used neotropical species-squirrel monkeys,
marmosets, and owl monkeys-speakers described the use of neotropical primates in 
specific areas of immunology, infectious disease, neuroscience, and physiology
research. Presentations addressed the development of new research tools:
immune-based reagents, fMRI technologies suited to these small primates,
sequencing of the marmoset genome, the first germline transgenic monkey, and
neotropical primate induced pluripotent stem cells. In the discussions after the 
presentations, participants identified challenges to both continued use and
development of new uses of neotropical primates in research and suggested the
following actions to address the challenges: (1) mechanisms to support breeding
colonies of some neotropical species to ensure a well-characterized domestic
source; (2) resources for the continuing development of critical research tools
to improve the immunological and hormonal characterization of neotropical
primates; (3) improved opportunities for networking among investigators who use
neotropical primates, training and other measures to improve colony and
veterinary management, and continuedÂ research on neotropical primate management
and veterinary care issues; (4) support for development activities to produce
models that are more affordable and more efficient for moving research "from
benchside to bedside"; and (5) establishment of a small program that would fund
"orphan" species.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.52.3.386 
PMID: 23382152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1930. Biochem Genet. 2011 Jun;49(5-6):283-91. doi: 10.1007/s10528-010-9406-4. Epub 2010
Dec 29.

Alternative splicing of human height-related zinc finger and BTB
domain-containing 38 gene through Alu exonization.

Hong KW(1), Shin YB, Jin HS, Lim JE, Choi JY, Chang KT, Kim HS, Oh B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, School of Medicine, Kyung Hee
University, Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul, Korea.

Recently, genome-wide association studies have identified a strong association
between the ZBTB38 locus and human height. In a functional study, we detected two
RT-PCR products of ZBTB38, amplified with primers in exons 7 and 8 from a
chondrocyte cell line, C-28/I2. Sequencing revealed that the longer product
contained an Alu segment in intron 7 of ZBTB38, which contained a potential
splicing acceptor site that likely was used to generate the alternative
transcript. Insertion of the Alu segment changed the consensus Kozak sequence of 
the ZBTB38 transcript, potentially altering translational efficiency. We
performed RT-PCR using 16 tissue samples from humans and 8 tissue samples from
primates to determine any tissue specificity or evolutionary conservation of the 
alternative splicing. Although we failed to identify any difference among the
tissues, all primate samples expressed only the shorter Alu segment (lacking the 
transcript), suggesting that the alternative splicing event is hominid
primate-specific.

DOI: 10.1007/s10528-010-9406-4 
PMID: 21188497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

