

1935. J Vis. 2010 Dec 16;10(14):15. doi: 10.1167/10.14.15.

A simple method for creating wide-field visual stimulus for electrophysiology:
mapping and analyzing receptive fields using a hemispheric display.

Yu HH(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, 
VIC, Australia. hhyu00@gmail.com

Modern neurophysiological and psychophysical studies of vision are typically
based on computer-generated stimuli presented on flat screens. While this
approach allows precise delivery of stimuli, it suffers from a fundamental
limitation in terms of the maximum achievable spatial coverage. This constraint
becomes important in studies that require stimulation of large expanses of the
visual field, such as those involving the mapping of receptive fields throughout 
the extent of a cortical area or subcortical nucleus, or those comparing neural
response properties across a wide range of eccentricities. Here we describe a
simple and highly cost-effective method for the projection of computer-generated 
stimuli on a hemispheric screen, which combines the advantages of computerized
control and wide-field (100° × 75°) delivery, without the requirement of highly
specialized hardware. The description of the method includes programming
techniques for the generation of stimuli in spherical coordinates and for the
quantitative determination of receptive field sizes and shapes. The value of this
approach is demonstrated by quantitative electrophysiological data obtained in
the far peripheral representations of various cortical areas, including automated
mapping of receptive field extents in cortex that underwent plasticity following 
lesions.

DOI: 10.1167/10.14.15 
PMID: 21163958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1936. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2011 Feb;59(1):19-27. doi: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2010.12.003. 
Epub 2010 Dec 13.

Overview of the marmoset as a model in nonclinical development of pharmaceutical 
products.

Orsi A(1), Rees D, Andreini I, Venturella S, Cinelli S, Oberto G.

Author information: 
(1)Salupont Consulting Ltd., Kent Science Park, 940 Cornforth Drive,
Sittingbourne, Kent, ME9 8PX, UK. aorsi@salupontconsulting.com

Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is one of the more primitive non-human
primate species and is used widely in fundamental biology, pharmacology and
toxicology studies. Marmosets breed well in captivity with good reproductive
efficiencies and their sexual maturity is reached within 18 months of age
allowing for rapid expansion of colonies and early availability of sexually
mature animals permitting an earlier assessment of product candidates in the
adult. Their relatively small size allows a reduction in material requirements
leading to a reduction in development time and cost. Fewer animals are also
required due to their ability to be used in both pharmacology and toxicology
(nonclinical) studies. These factors, alongside a better understanding of their
optimal nutrient and welfare requirements over recent years, facilitate the
generation of a more cohesive and robust dataset. With the growth of
biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals, non-human primate use has, by necessity,
also increased; nevertheless, there is also a growing public call for minimizing 
their use. Utilizing, the more primitive marmoset species may provide the optimal
compromise and once the scientific rationale has been carefully considered and
their use justified, there are several advantages to using the marmoset as a
model in nonclinical development of pharmaceutical products.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2010.12.003 
PMCID: PMC7126225
PMID: 21156195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

