

1936. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2011 Feb;59(1):19-27. doi: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2010.12.003. 
Epub 2010 Dec 13.

Overview of the marmoset as a model in nonclinical development of pharmaceutical 
products.

Orsi A(1), Rees D, Andreini I, Venturella S, Cinelli S, Oberto G.

Author information: 
(1)Salupont Consulting Ltd., Kent Science Park, 940 Cornforth Drive,
Sittingbourne, Kent, ME9 8PX, UK. aorsi@salupontconsulting.com

Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is one of the more primitive non-human
primate species and is used widely in fundamental biology, pharmacology and
toxicology studies. Marmosets breed well in captivity with good reproductive
efficiencies and their sexual maturity is reached within 18 months of age
allowing for rapid expansion of colonies and early availability of sexually
mature animals permitting an earlier assessment of product candidates in the
adult. Their relatively small size allows a reduction in material requirements
leading to a reduction in development time and cost. Fewer animals are also
required due to their ability to be used in both pharmacology and toxicology
(nonclinical) studies. These factors, alongside a better understanding of their
optimal nutrient and welfare requirements over recent years, facilitate the
generation of a more cohesive and robust dataset. With the growth of
biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals, non-human primate use has, by necessity,
also increased; nevertheless, there is also a growing public call for minimizing 
their use. Utilizing, the more primitive marmoset species may provide the optimal
compromise and once the scientific rationale has been carefully considered and
their use justified, there are several advantages to using the marmoset as a
model in nonclinical development of pharmaceutical products.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2010.12.003 
PMCID: PMC7126225
PMID: 21156195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1937. J Neurosci. 2010 Dec 8;30(49):16741-54. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2016-10.2010.

Cortical processing of dynamic sound envelope transitions.

Zhou Y(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
zhouyi@jhu.edu

Slow envelope fluctuations in the range of 2-20 Hz provide important segmental
cues for processing communication sounds. For a successful segmentation, a neural
processor must capture envelope features associated with the rise and fall of
signal energy, a process that is often challenged by the interference of
background noise. This study investigated the neural representations of slowly
varying envelopes in quiet and in background noise in the primary auditory cortex
(A1) of awake marmoset monkeys. We characterized envelope features based on the
local average and rate of change of sound level in envelope waveforms and
identified envelope features to which neurons were selective by reverse
correlation. Our results showed that envelope feature selectivity of A1 neurons
was correlated with the degree of nonmonotonicity in their static rate-level
functions. Nonmonotonic neurons exhibited greater feature selectivity than
monotonic neurons in quiet and in background noise. The diverse envelope feature 
selectivity decreased spike-timing correlation among A1 neurons in response to
the same envelope waveforms. As a result, the variability, but not the average,
of the ensemble responses of A1 neurons represented more faithfully the dynamic
transitions in low-frequency sound envelopes both in quiet and in background
noise.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2016-10.2010 
PMCID: PMC3358036
PMID: 21148013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

