

1937. J Neurosci. 2010 Dec 8;30(49):16741-54. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2016-10.2010.

Cortical processing of dynamic sound envelope transitions.

Zhou Y(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
zhouyi@jhu.edu

Slow envelope fluctuations in the range of 2-20 Hz provide important segmental
cues for processing communication sounds. For a successful segmentation, a neural
processor must capture envelope features associated with the rise and fall of
signal energy, a process that is often challenged by the interference of
background noise. This study investigated the neural representations of slowly
varying envelopes in quiet and in background noise in the primary auditory cortex
(A1) of awake marmoset monkeys. We characterized envelope features based on the
local average and rate of change of sound level in envelope waveforms and
identified envelope features to which neurons were selective by reverse
correlation. Our results showed that envelope feature selectivity of A1 neurons
was correlated with the degree of nonmonotonicity in their static rate-level
functions. Nonmonotonic neurons exhibited greater feature selectivity than
monotonic neurons in quiet and in background noise. The diverse envelope feature 
selectivity decreased spike-timing correlation among A1 neurons in response to
the same envelope waveforms. As a result, the variability, but not the average,
of the ensemble responses of A1 neurons represented more faithfully the dynamic
transitions in low-frequency sound envelopes both in quiet and in background
noise.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2016-10.2010 
PMCID: PMC3358036
PMID: 21148013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1938. Hear Res. 2011 May;275(1-2):30-42. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2010.11.011. Epub 2010
Dec 9.

Rate-level responses in awake marmoset auditory cortex.

Watkins PV(1), Barbour DL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University, One Brookings Dr., Campus Box
1097, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA.

Investigations of auditory neuronal firing rate as a function of sound level have
revealed a wide variety of rate-level function shapes, including neurons with
nonmonotonic or level-tuned functions. These neurons have an unclear role in
auditory processing but have been found to be quite common. In the present study 
of awake marmoset primary auditory cortex (A1) neurons, 56% (305 out of 544),
when stimulated with tones at the highest sound level tested, exhibited a
decrement in driven rate of at least 50% from the maximum. These nonmonotonic
neurons demonstrated significantly lower response thresholds than monotonic
neurons, although both populations exhibited thresholds skewed toward lower
values. Nonmonotonic neurons significantly outnumbered monotonic neurons in the
frequency range 6-13 kHz, which is the frequency range containing most marmoset
vocalization energy. Spontaneous rate was inversely correlated with threshold in 
both populations, and spontaneous rates of nonmonotonic neurons had significantly
lower values than spontaneous rates of monotonic neurons, although distributions 
of maximum driven rates were not significantly different. Finally, monotonicity
was found to be organized within electrode penetrations like characteristic
frequency but with less structure. These findings are consistent with the
hypothesis that nonmonotonic neurons play a unique role in representing sound
level, particularly at the lowest sound levels and for complex vocalizations.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2010.11.011 
PMCID: PMC3095711
PMID: 21145961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

