

1938. Hear Res. 2011 May;275(1-2):30-42. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2010.11.011. Epub 2010
Dec 9.

Rate-level responses in awake marmoset auditory cortex.

Watkins PV(1), Barbour DL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University, One Brookings Dr., Campus Box
1097, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA.

Investigations of auditory neuronal firing rate as a function of sound level have
revealed a wide variety of rate-level function shapes, including neurons with
nonmonotonic or level-tuned functions. These neurons have an unclear role in
auditory processing but have been found to be quite common. In the present study 
of awake marmoset primary auditory cortex (A1) neurons, 56% (305 out of 544),
when stimulated with tones at the highest sound level tested, exhibited a
decrement in driven rate of at least 50% from the maximum. These nonmonotonic
neurons demonstrated significantly lower response thresholds than monotonic
neurons, although both populations exhibited thresholds skewed toward lower
values. Nonmonotonic neurons significantly outnumbered monotonic neurons in the
frequency range 6-13 kHz, which is the frequency range containing most marmoset
vocalization energy. Spontaneous rate was inversely correlated with threshold in 
both populations, and spontaneous rates of nonmonotonic neurons had significantly
lower values than spontaneous rates of monotonic neurons, although distributions 
of maximum driven rates were not significantly different. Finally, monotonicity
was found to be organized within electrode penetrations like characteristic
frequency but with less structure. These findings are consistent with the
hypothesis that nonmonotonic neurons play a unique role in representing sound
level, particularly at the lowest sound levels and for complex vocalizations.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2010.11.011 
PMCID: PMC3095711
PMID: 21145961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1939. Horm Behav. 2011 Feb;59(2):265-70. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2010.12.001. Epub 2010
Dec 9.

Differential endocrine responses to infant odors in common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) fathers.

Ziegler TE(1), Peterson LJ, Sosa ME, Barnard AM.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin - Madison,
1220 Capitol Court, Madison, WI 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Olfactory cues can exert priming effects on many mammalian species. Paternally
experienced marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, exposed to direct isolated olfactory
contact with their own infant's scent show rapid decreases in testosterone levels
within 20 min, whereas paternally inexperienced males do not. The following study
tests whether there is a differential steroid response to exposure of infant
scent from dependent infants (own and novel) and independent infants (own and
novel). We examined the serum levels of estradiol, estrone, testosterone,
dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and combined estrogens and androgens in eight male
marmosets 20 min after exposure to isolated infant scent. Testosterone and
androgen levels combined were significantly lower with exposure to own infant
scent than a novel infant scent when the infants were at a dependent age but not 
at an independent age. Estrogen levels elevated significantly in response to own 
infant scent when the infants were at a dependent age but not at an independent
age. These results suggest that marmoset fathers are more responsive to priming
cues from related infants and hormonal responses from fathers are greatest when
the infant is at a dependent age.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2010.12.001 
PMCID: PMC3040271
PMID: 21145893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

