

1942. Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(6):148. doi: 10.1186/ar3181. Epub 2010 Nov 30.

A novel preclinical model for rheumatoid arthritis research.

Petersen F, Yu X.

Comment on
    Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(5):R200.

Based on increasing knowledge on the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA),
more and more potential therapeutics have been developed. To evaluate their
therapeutic efficacy, safety and toxicity, appropriate animal models are
required. Although rodent models of RA have been extensively used for preclinical
evaluation, the differences between rodents and humans limit their usability for 
some species-specific therapeutics. Therefore, autoimmune arthritis developed in 
a non-human primate with essential hallmarks of RA will be an alternative model
for preclinical studies.

DOI: 10.1186/ar3181 
PMCID: PMC3046512
PMID: 21138598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1943. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2011 Feb 1;170(3):514-21. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2010.11.023. 
Epub 2010 Dec 2.

Tissue-specific expression of squirrel monkey chorionic gonadotropin.

Vasauskas AA(1), Hubler TR, Boston L, Scammell JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, University of South Alabama College of
Medicine, Mobile, AL 36688, USA.

Pituitary gonadotropins LH and FSH play central roles in reproductive function.
In Old World primates, LH stimulates ovulation in females and testosterone
production in males. Recent studies have found that squirrel monkeys and other
New World primates lack expression of LH in the pituitary. Instead, chorionic
gonadotropin (CG), which is normally only expressed in the placenta of Old World 
primates, is the active luteotropic pituitary hormone in these animals. The goal 
of this study was to investigate the tissue-specific regulation of squirrel
monkey CG. We isolated the squirrel monkey CGβ gene and promoter from genomic DNA
from squirrel monkey B-lymphoblasts and compared the promoter sequence to that of
the common marmoset, another New World primate, and human and rhesus macaque CGβ 
and LHβ. Using reporter gene assays, we found that a squirrel monkey CGβ promoter
fragment (-1898/+9) is active in both mouse pituitary LβT2 and human placenta
JEG3 cells, but not in rat adrenal PC12 cells. Furthermore, within this construct
separate cis-elements are responsible for pituitary- and placenta-specific
expression. Pituitary-specific expression is governed by Egr-1 binding sites in
the proximal 250 bp of the promoter, whereas placenta-specific expression is
controlled by AP-2 sites further upstream. Thus, selective expression of the
squirrel monkey CGβ promoter in pituitary and placental cells is governed by
distinct cis-elements that exhibit homology with human LHβ and marmoset CGβ
promoters, respectively.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2010.11.023 
PMCID: PMC3022102
PMID: 21130091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

