

1943. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2011 Feb 1;170(3):514-21. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2010.11.023. 
Epub 2010 Dec 2.

Tissue-specific expression of squirrel monkey chorionic gonadotropin.

Vasauskas AA(1), Hubler TR, Boston L, Scammell JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, University of South Alabama College of
Medicine, Mobile, AL 36688, USA.

Pituitary gonadotropins LH and FSH play central roles in reproductive function.
In Old World primates, LH stimulates ovulation in females and testosterone
production in males. Recent studies have found that squirrel monkeys and other
New World primates lack expression of LH in the pituitary. Instead, chorionic
gonadotropin (CG), which is normally only expressed in the placenta of Old World 
primates, is the active luteotropic pituitary hormone in these animals. The goal 
of this study was to investigate the tissue-specific regulation of squirrel
monkey CG. We isolated the squirrel monkey CGβ gene and promoter from genomic DNA
from squirrel monkey B-lymphoblasts and compared the promoter sequence to that of
the common marmoset, another New World primate, and human and rhesus macaque CGβ 
and LHβ. Using reporter gene assays, we found that a squirrel monkey CGβ promoter
fragment (-1898/+9) is active in both mouse pituitary LβT2 and human placenta
JEG3 cells, but not in rat adrenal PC12 cells. Furthermore, within this construct
separate cis-elements are responsible for pituitary- and placenta-specific
expression. Pituitary-specific expression is governed by Egr-1 binding sites in
the proximal 250 bp of the promoter, whereas placenta-specific expression is
controlled by AP-2 sites further upstream. Thus, selective expression of the
squirrel monkey CGβ promoter in pituitary and placental cells is governed by
distinct cis-elements that exhibit homology with human LHβ and marmoset CGβ
promoters, respectively.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2010.11.023 
PMCID: PMC3022102
PMID: 21130091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1944. Stem Cells Dev. 2011 Sep;20(9):1587-99. doi: 10.1089/scd.2010.0351. Epub 2011 Jan
16.

Gene targeting and subsequent site-specific transgenesis at the β-actin (ACTB)
locus in common marmoset embryonic stem cells.

Shiozawa S(1), Kawai K, Okada Y, Tomioka I, Maeda T, Kanda A, Shinohara H,
Suemizu H, James Okano H, Sotomaru Y, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Nonhuman primate embryonic stem (ES) cells have vast promise for preclinical
studies. Genetic modification in nonhuman primate ES cells is an essential
technique for maximizing the potential of these cells. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a nonhuman primate, is expected to be a useful transgenic
model for preclinical studies. However, genetic modification in common marmoset
ES (cmES) cells has not yet been adequately developed. To establish efficient and
stable genetic modifications in cmES cells, we inserted the enhanced green
fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene with heterotypic lox sites into the β-actin
(ACTB) locus of the cmES cells using gene targeting. The resulting knock-in ES
cells expressed EGFP ubiquitously under the control of the endogenous ACTB
promoter. Using inserted heterotypic lox sites, we demonstrated Cre
recombinase-mediated cassette exchange (RMCE) and successfully established a
monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP) knock-in cmES cell line. Further, a
herpes simplex virus-thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) knock-in cmES cell line was
established using RMCE. The growth of tumor cells originating from the cell line 
was significantly suppressed by the administration of ganciclovir. Therefore, the
HSV-tk/ganciclovir system is promising as a safeguard for stem cell therapy. The 
stable and ubiquitous expression of EGFP before RMCE enables cell fate to be
tracked when the cells are transplanted into an animal. Moreover, the creation of
a transgene acceptor locus for site-specific transgenesis will be a powerful
tool, similar to the ROSA26 locus in mice.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2010.0351 
PMID: 21126169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

