

1946. Primates. 2011 Apr;52(2):101-4. doi: 10.1007/s10329-010-0228-0. Epub 2010 Nov 25.

When play is a family business: adult play, hierarchy, and possible stress
reduction in common marmosets.

Norscia I(1), Palagi E.

Author information: 
(1)Natural History Museum, University of Pisa, via Roma 79, Calci, Pisa, Italy.

Easy to recognize but not easy to define, animal play is a baffling behavior
because it has no obvious immediate benefits for the performers. However, the
absence of immediate advantages, if true, would leave adult play (costly but
maintained by evolution, spanning lemurs to Homo sapiens) unexplained. Although a
commonly held view maintains that play is limited by stress, an emergent
hypothesis states that play can regulate stress in the short term. Here we
explored this hypothesis in a captive family group of New World monkeys,
Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset). We observed six subjects and gathered data 
on aggressive, play, and scratching behavior via focal (6 h/individual) and all
occurrences sampling (115 h). We found that play levels were highest during
pre-feeding, the period of maximum anxiety due to the forthcoming competition
over food. Scratching (the most reliable indicator of stress in primates) and
play showed opposite trends along hierarchy, with dominants scratching more and
playing less than subordinates. Finally, scratching decreased after play, whereas
play appeared to be unrelated to previous scratching events, symptoms of a
potential stressful state. In conclusion, both play timing and hierarchical
distribution indicate that play limits stress, more than vice versa, at least in 
the short term.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-010-0228-0 
PMID: 21107884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1947. Proc Biol Sci. 2011 Jun 7;278(1712):1626-32. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2010.1890. Epub
2010 Nov 24.

Canaries in the coal mine: a cross-species analysis of the plurality of obesity
epidemics.

Klimentidis YC(1), Beasley TM, Lin HY, Murati G, Glass GE, Guyton M, Newton W,
Jorgensen M, Heymsfield SB, Kemnitz J, Fairbanks L, Allison DB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL, USA.

A dramatic rise in obesity has occurred among humans within the last several
decades. Little is known about whether similar increases in obesity have occurred
in animals inhabiting human-influenced environments. We examined samples
collectively consisting of over 20 000 animals from 24 populations (12 divided
separately into males and females) of animals representing eight species living
with or around humans in industrialized societies. In all populations, the
estimated coefficient for the trend of body weight over time was positive (i.e.
increasing). The probability of all trends being in the same direction by chance 
is 1.2 × 10(-7). Surprisingly, we find that over the past several decades,
average mid-life body weights have risen among primates and rodents living in
research colonies, as well as among feral rodents and domestic dogs and cats. The
consistency of these findings among animals living in varying environments,
suggests the intriguing possibility that the aetiology of increasing body weight 
may involve several as-of-yet unidentified and/or poorly understood factors (e.g.
viral pathogens, epigenetic factors). This finding may eventually enhance the
discovery and fuller elucidation of other factors that have contributed to the
recent rise in obesity rates.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2010.1890 
PMCID: PMC3081766
PMID: 21106594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

