

1955. Aging Cell. 2011 Feb;10(1):28-38. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2010.00639.x. Epub
2010 Nov 15.

Cellular organization of adult neurogenesis in the Common Marmoset.

Bunk EC(1), Stelzer S, Hermann S, Schäfers M, Schlatt S, Schwamborn JC.

Author information: 
(1)ZMBE, Cell Biology, Stem Cell Biology and Regeneration Group, Germany.

Adult neurogenesis within the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate
gyrus and the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricle (LV) has been
most intensely studied within the brains of rodents such as mice and rats.
However, little is known about the cell types and processes involved in adult
neurogenesis within primates such as the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
Moreover, substantial differences seem to exist between the neurogenic niche of
the LV between rodents and humans. Here, we set out to use immunohistochemical
and autogradiographic analysis to characterize the anatomy of the neurogenic
niches and the expression of cell type-specific markers in those niches in the
adult common marmoset brain. Moreover, we demonstrate significant differences in 
the activity of neurogenesis in the adult marmoset brain compared to the adult
mouse brain. Finally, we provide evidence for ongoing proliferation of
neuroblasts within both the SGZ and SVZ of the adult brain and further show that 
the age-dependent decline of neurogenesis in the hippocampus is associated with a
decrease in neuroblast cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2010.00639.x 
PMID: 21040399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1956. Nutrients. 2010 Nov;2(11):1156-87. doi: 10.3390/nu2111156. Epub 2010 Nov 23.

Early exposure to soy isoflavones and effects on reproductive health: a review of
human and animal studies.

Dinsdale EC(1), Ward WE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto,
Ontario, Canada. elsa.dinsdale@utoronto.ca

Soy isoflavones are phytoestrogens with potential hormonal activity due to their 
similar chemical structure to 17-β-estradiol. The increasing availability of soy 
isoflavones throughout the food supply and through use of supplements has
prompted extensive research on biological benefits to humans in chronic disease
prevention and health maintenance. While much of this research has focused on
adult populations, infants fed soy protein based infant formulas are exposed to
substantial levels of soy isoflavones, even when compared to adult populations
that consume a higher quantity of soy-based foods. Infant exposure, through soy
formula, primarily occurs from birth to one year of life, a stage of development 
that is particularly sensitive to dietary and environmental compounds. This has
led investigators to study the potential hormonal effects of soy isoflavones on
later reproductive health outcomes. Such studies have included minimal human data
with the large majority of studies using animal models. This review discusses key
aspects of the current human and animal studies and identifies critical areas to 
be investigated as there is no clear consensus in this research field.

DOI: 10.3390/nu2111156 
PMCID: PMC3257624
PMID: 22254003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

