

1957. Horm Behav. 2011 May;59(5):696-701. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2010.10.009. Epub 2010
Oct 26.

Conditioned sexual arousal in a nonhuman primate.

Snowdon CT(1), Tannenbaum PL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Ziegler TE, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, 1202 West Johnson Street,
Madison, WI 53606, USA. snowdon@wisc.edu

Conditioning of sexual arousal has been demonstrated in several species from fish
to humans but has not been demonstrated in nonhuman primates. Controversy exists 
over whether nonhuman primates produce pheromones that arouse sexual behavior.
Although common marmosets copulate throughout the ovarian cycle and during
pregnancy, males exhibit behavioral signs of arousal, demonstrate increased
neural activation of anterior hypothalamus and medial preoptic area, and have an 
increase in serum testosterone after exposure to odors of novel ovulating females
suggestive of a sexually arousing pheromone. Males also have increased androgens 
prior to their mate's ovulation. However, males presented with odors of ovulating
females demonstrate activation of many other brain areas associated with
motivation, memory, and decision making. In this study, we demonstrate that male 
marmosets can be conditioned to a novel, arbitrary odor (lemon) with observation 
of erections, and increased exploration of the location where they previously
experienced a receptive female, and increased scratching in post-conditioning
test without a female present. This conditioned response was demonstrated up to a
week after the end of conditioning trials, a much longer lasting effect of
conditioning than reported in studies of other species. These results further
suggest that odors of ovulating females are not pheromones, strictly speaking and
that marmoset males may learn specific characteristics of odors of females
providing a possible basis for mate identification.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2010.10.009 
PMCID: PMC3043118
PMID: 21029736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1958. J Neurosci. 2010 Oct 27;30(43):14552-9. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2631-10.2010.

Differential contributions of the primate ventrolateral prefrontal and
orbitofrontal cortex to serial reversal learning.

Rygula R(1), Walker SC, Clarke HF, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United
Kingdom. rr362@cam.ac.uk

The discrimination reversal paradigm is commonly used to measure a subject's
ability to adapt their behavior according to changes in stimulus-reward
contingencies. Human functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated
activations in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and the inferior frontal
gyrus (IFG) in subjects performing this task. Excitotoxic lesions of analogous
regions in marmosets have revealed, however, that although the OFC is indeed
critical for reversal learning, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC)
(analogous to IFG) is not, contributing instead to higher order processing, such 
as that required in attentional set-shifting and strategy transfer. One major
difference between the marmoset and human studies has been the level of training 
subjects received in reversal learning, being far greater in the latter. Since
exposure to repeated contingency changes, as occurs in serial reversal learning, 
is likely to trigger the development of higher order, rule-based strategies, we
hypothesized a critical role of the marmoset VLPFC in performance of a serial
reversal learning paradigm. After extensive training in reversal learning,
marmosets received an excitotoxic lesion of the VLPFC, OFC, or a sham control
procedure. In agreement with our prediction, postsurgery, VLPFC lesioned animals 
were impaired in performing a series of discrimination reversals, but only when
novel visual stimuli were introduced. In contrast, OFC lesioned animals were
impaired regardless of whether the visual stimuli were the same or different from
those used during presurgery training. Together, these data demonstrate the
heterogeneous but interrelated involvement of primate OFC and VLPFC in the
performance of serial reversal learning.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2631-10.2010 
PMCID: PMC3044865
PMID: 20980613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

