

1958. J Neurosci. 2010 Oct 27;30(43):14552-9. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2631-10.2010.

Differential contributions of the primate ventrolateral prefrontal and
orbitofrontal cortex to serial reversal learning.

Rygula R(1), Walker SC, Clarke HF, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United
Kingdom. rr362@cam.ac.uk

The discrimination reversal paradigm is commonly used to measure a subject's
ability to adapt their behavior according to changes in stimulus-reward
contingencies. Human functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated
activations in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and the inferior frontal
gyrus (IFG) in subjects performing this task. Excitotoxic lesions of analogous
regions in marmosets have revealed, however, that although the OFC is indeed
critical for reversal learning, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC)
(analogous to IFG) is not, contributing instead to higher order processing, such 
as that required in attentional set-shifting and strategy transfer. One major
difference between the marmoset and human studies has been the level of training 
subjects received in reversal learning, being far greater in the latter. Since
exposure to repeated contingency changes, as occurs in serial reversal learning, 
is likely to trigger the development of higher order, rule-based strategies, we
hypothesized a critical role of the marmoset VLPFC in performance of a serial
reversal learning paradigm. After extensive training in reversal learning,
marmosets received an excitotoxic lesion of the VLPFC, OFC, or a sham control
procedure. In agreement with our prediction, postsurgery, VLPFC lesioned animals 
were impaired in performing a series of discrimination reversals, but only when
novel visual stimuli were introduced. In contrast, OFC lesioned animals were
impaired regardless of whether the visual stimuli were the same or different from
those used during presurgery training. Together, these data demonstrate the
heterogeneous but interrelated involvement of primate OFC and VLPFC in the
performance of serial reversal learning.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2631-10.2010 
PMCID: PMC3044865
PMID: 20980613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1959. Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(5):R200. doi: 10.1186/ar3172. Epub 2010 Oct 26.

Collagen-induced arthritis in common marmosets: a new nonhuman primate model for 
chronic arthritis.

Vierboom MP(1), Breedveld E, Kondova I, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
161, 2288 GJ Rijswijk, The Netherlands. vierboom@bprc.nl

Comment in
    Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(6):148.

INTRODUCTION: There is an ever-increasing need for animal models to evaluate
efficacy and safety of new therapeutics in the field of rheumatoid arthritis
(RA). Particularly for the early preclinical evaluation of human-specific
biologicals targeting the progressive phase of the disease, there is a need for
relevant animal models. In response to this requirement we set out to develop a
model of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in a small-sized nonhuman primate
species (300 to 400 g at adult age); that is, the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).
METHODS: Twenty-two animals divided into three experiments were immunized with
collagen type II (CII) of either bovine or chicken origin with different
immunization strategies. The animals were analyzed for clinical manifestation of 
arthritis, hematology and clinical chemistry, immunological responses against CII
and histopathological features of the arthritis.
RESULTS: Clinically manifest arthritis was observed in almost 100% (21 out of 22)
of the animals. Fifty percent of the animals developed semi-acute CIA while the
other 50% displayed a more chronic disease. Both cellular (CD3/CD4 and CD3/CD8)
and humoral responses (IgM and IgG) against CII were involved in the development 
of the disease. Besides mild histopathological changes in bone and cartilage,
severe inflammation in extraarticular tissues like periosteum and subcutaneous
tissues was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: This new model in marmosets more closely resembles chronic RA with
respect to the chronic disease course and pathomorphological presentation than
the more acute monophasic and destructive CIA model in macaques. This model can
therefore fill a niche in preclinical testing of new human specific therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1186/ar3172 
PMCID: PMC2991037
PMID: 20977720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

