

1960. J Med Chem. 2010 Nov 25;53(22):8104-15. doi: 10.1021/jm100971t. Epub 2010 Oct 25.

In vivo characterization of a dual adenosine A2A/A1 receptor antagonist in animal
models of Parkinson's disease.

Shook BC(1), Rassnick S, Osborne MC, Davis S, Westover L, Boulet J, Hall D,
Rupert KC, Heintzelman GR, Hansen K, Chakravarty D, Bullington JL, Russell R,
Branum S, Wells KM, Damon S, Youells S, Li X, Beauchamp DA, Palmer D, Reyes M,
Demarest K, Tang Y, Rhodes K, Jackson PF.

Author information: 
(1)Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research and Development, L.L.C., Welsh and
McKean Roads, P.O. Box 776, Spring House, Pennsylvania 19477, USA.
bshook@its.jnj.com

The in vivo characterization of a dual adenosine A(2A)/A(1) receptor antagonist
in several animal models of Parkinson's disease is described. Discovery and
scale-up syntheses of compound 1 are described in detail, highlighting
optimization steps that increased the overall yield of 1 from 10.0% to 30.5%.
Compound 1 is a potent A(2A)/A(1) receptor antagonist in vitro (A(2A) K(i) = 4.1 
nM; A(1) K(i) = 17.0 nM) that has excellent activity, after oral administration, 
across a number of animal models of Parkinson's disease including mouse and rat
models of haloperidol-induced catalepsy, mouse model of reserpine-induced
akinesia, rat 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model of drug-induced rotation,
and MPTP-treated non-human primate model.

DOI: 10.1021/jm100971t 
PMID: 20973483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1961. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2011 Feb;336(2):423-30. doi: 10.1124/jpet.110.169532. Epub 
2010 Oct 21.

Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibition reduces
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine-induced hyperactivity in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned non-human primate model of 
Parkinson's disease.

Johnston TH(1), Huot P, Fox SH, Wakefield JD, Sykes KA, Bartolini WP, Milne GT,
Pearson JP, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Dopaminergic therapies remain the most efficacious symptomatic treatments for
Parkinson's disease (PD) but are associated with motor complications, including
dyskinesia, and nonmotor complications, such as psychosis, impulse control
disorders (ICD), and dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS). Nondopaminergic
neurotransmitter systems, including the endocannabinoid system, are probably
critical to the development of these complications. The role of fatty acid amide 
hydrolase (FAAH) in mediating l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced
behaviors was explored in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmoset model of PD.
Pharmacodynamic and locomotor effects of the selective FAAH inhibitor
[3-(3-carbamoylphenyl)phenyl] N-cyclohexylcarbamate (URB597) were assessed via
bioanalytical (liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry) and behavioral
observation approaches. URB597 (3, 10, 30, or 60 mg/kg p.o.) increased plasma
levels of the FAAH substrates N-arachidonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide), N-oleoyl 
ethanolamide, and N-palmitoyl ethanolamide by 10.3 ± 0.3-, 7.8 ± 0.2-, and 1.8 ± 
0.1-fold (mean of URB597 groups ± S.E.M.), respectively, compared with vehicle
(all p < 0.001) 4 h after administration. Treatment with L-DOPA (20 mg/kg s.c.)
alleviated parkinsonism but elicited dyskinesia, psychosis-like-behaviors and
hyperactivity, a potential correlate of ICD and DDS. During the 2 to 4 h after
L-DOPA, corresponding to 4 to 6 h after URB597 administration, URB597 reduced
total L-DOPA-induced activity and the magnitude of hyperactivity by 32 and 52%,
respectively, to levels equivalent to those seen in normal animals. Treatment
with URB597 (10 mg/kg p.o.) did not modify the antiparkinsonian actions of L-DOPA
or L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and psychosis. URB597 did not alter plasma L-DOPA
levels and was without behavioral effects when administered alone. Inhibition of 
FAAH may represent a novel approach to reducing L-DOPA-induced side effects, such
as ICD and DDS, while maintaining the antiparkinsonian benefits of L-DOPA
treatment.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.110.169532 
PMID: 20966038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

