

1962. Front Integr Neurosci. 2010 Sep 23;4. pii: 123. doi: 10.3389/fnint.2010.00123.
eCollection 2010.

Activation of frontal neocortical areas by vocal production in marmosets.

Simões CS(1), Vianney PV, de Moura MM, Freire MA, Mello LE, Sameshima K, Araújo
JF, Nicolelis MA, Mello CV, Ribeiro S.

Author information: 
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra - International Institute of Neuroscience of Natal
Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil.

Primates often rely on vocal communication to mediate social interactions.
Although much is known about the acoustic structure of primate vocalizations and 
the social context in which they are usually uttered, our knowledge about the
neocortical control of audio-vocal interactions in primates is still incipient,
being mostly derived from lesion studies in squirrel monkeys and macaques. To map
the neocortical areas related to vocal control in a New World primate species,
the common marmoset, we employed a method previously used with success in other
vertebrate species: Analysis of the expression of the immediate early gene Egr-1 
in freely behaving animals. The neocortical distribution of Egr-1 immunoreactive 
cells in three marmosets that were exposed to the playback of conspecific
vocalizations and vocalized spontaneously (H/V group) was compared to data from
three other marmosets that also heard the playback but did not vocalize (H/n
group). The anterior cingulate cortex, the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and the 
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex presented a higher number of Egr-1 immunoreactive
cells in the H/V group than in H/n animals. Our results provide direct evidence
that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, the region that comprises Broca's area 
in humans and has been associated with auditory processing of species-specific
vocalizations and orofacial control in macaques, is engaged during vocal output
in marmosets. Altogether, our results support the notion that the network of
neocortical areas related to vocal communication in marmosets is quite similar to
that of Old world primates. The vocal production role played by these areas and
their importance for the evolution of speech in primates are discussed.

DOI: 10.3389/fnint.2010.00123 
PMCID: PMC2955454
PMID: 20953246 


1963. J Hum Evol. 2010 Dec;59(6):595-607. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2010.06.008. Epub 2010 
Oct 16.

The bony labyrinth of the early platyrrhine primate Chilecebus.

Ni X(1), Flynn JJ, Wyss AR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History, Central Park
West at 79th Street, New York, NY 10024, USA.nixijun@ivpp.ac.cn

We document the morphology of the bony labyrinth of Chilecebus carrascoensis, one
of the best preserved early platyrrhines known, based on high resolution CT
scanning and 3D digital reconstruction. The cochlea is low and conical in form,
as in other anthropoids, but has only 2.5 spiral turns. When the allometric
relationship with body mass is considered, cochlear size is similar to that in
extant primates. The relative size of the semicircular canals, which is well
within the range of other primates, indicates that Chilecebus carrascoensis was
probably not as agile in its locomotion as other small-bodied platyrrhines such
as Leontopithecus rosalia, Saguinus oedipus, and Callithrix jacchus, but it
probably was not a suspensory acrobat or a slow climber. The proportion, shape,
and orientation of the semicircular canals in Chilecebus carrascoensis also
mirror that typically seen in extant primates. However, no single variable can be
used for predicting the locomotor pattern in Chilecebus carrascoensis. Based on
Principle Component Analysis (PCA) scores we calculated rescaled Euclidean
distances for various taxa; primates with similar locomotor patterns tend to
share shorter distances. Results for Chilecebus carrascoensis underscore its
general resemblance to living quadrupedal primate taxa, but it is not positioned 
especially near any single living taxon.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2010.06.008 
PMID: 20952046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

