

1963. J Hum Evol. 2010 Dec;59(6):595-607. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2010.06.008. Epub 2010 
Oct 16.

The bony labyrinth of the early platyrrhine primate Chilecebus.

Ni X(1), Flynn JJ, Wyss AR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History, Central Park
West at 79th Street, New York, NY 10024, USA.nixijun@ivpp.ac.cn

We document the morphology of the bony labyrinth of Chilecebus carrascoensis, one
of the best preserved early platyrrhines known, based on high resolution CT
scanning and 3D digital reconstruction. The cochlea is low and conical in form,
as in other anthropoids, but has only 2.5 spiral turns. When the allometric
relationship with body mass is considered, cochlear size is similar to that in
extant primates. The relative size of the semicircular canals, which is well
within the range of other primates, indicates that Chilecebus carrascoensis was
probably not as agile in its locomotion as other small-bodied platyrrhines such
as Leontopithecus rosalia, Saguinus oedipus, and Callithrix jacchus, but it
probably was not a suspensory acrobat or a slow climber. The proportion, shape,
and orientation of the semicircular canals in Chilecebus carrascoensis also
mirror that typically seen in extant primates. However, no single variable can be
used for predicting the locomotor pattern in Chilecebus carrascoensis. Based on
Principle Component Analysis (PCA) scores we calculated rescaled Euclidean
distances for various taxa; primates with similar locomotor patterns tend to
share shorter distances. Results for Chilecebus carrascoensis underscore its
general resemblance to living quadrupedal primate taxa, but it is not positioned 
especially near any single living taxon.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2010.06.008 
PMID: 20952046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1964. Vis Neurosci. 2011 Jan;28(1):39-50. doi: 10.1017/S095252381000026X. Epub 2010 Oct
18.

Bipolar input to melanopsin containing ganglion cells in primate retina.

Grünert U(1), Jusuf PR, Lee SC, Nguyen DT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology Save Sight Institute, The University of Sydney,
Eye Hospital Campus, Sydney, Australia. ugrunert@sydney.edu.au

Two morphological types of melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells have been
described in primate retina. Both types show intrinsic light responses as well as
rod- and cone-driven ON-type responses. Outer stratifying cells have their
dendrites close to the inner nuclear layer (OFF sublamina); inner stratifying
cells have their dendrites close to the ganglion cell layer (ON sublamina). Both 
inner and outer stratifying cells receive synaptic input via ribbon synapses, but
the bipolar cell types providing this input have not been identified. Here, we
addressed the question whether the diffuse (ON) cone bipolar type DB6 and/or rod 
bipolar cells contact melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells. Melanopsin containing
ganglion cells in marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and macaque (Macaca fascicularis)
retinas were identified immunohistochemically; DB6 cells were labeled with
antibodies against the carbohydrate epitope CD15, rod bipolar cells were labeled 
with antibodies against protein kinase C, and putative synapses between the two
cells types were identified with antibodies against piccolo. For one inner cell, 
nearly all of the DB6 axon terminals that overlap with its dendrites in the
two-dimensional space show areas of close contact. In vertical sections, the
large majority of the areas of close contact also contain a synaptic punctum,
suggesting that DB6 cells contact inner melanopsin cells. The output from DB6
cells accounts for about 30% of synapses onto inner melanopsin cells. Synaptic
contacts between rod bipolar axons and inner dendrites were not observed. In the 
OFF sublamina, about 10% of the DB6 axons are closely associated with dendrites
of outer cells, and in about a third of these areas, axonal en passant synapses
are detected. This result suggests that DB6 cells may also provide input to outer
melanopsin cells.

DOI: 10.1017/S095252381000026X 
PMID: 20950505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

