

1965. Int J Primatol. 2010 Oct;31(5):796-812. Epub 2010 Aug 7.

Effects of Habitat Structure and Fragmentation on Diversity and Abundance of
Primates in Tropical Deciduous Forests in Bolivia.

Pyritz LW, Büntge AB, Herzog SK, Kessler M.

Habitat structure and anthropogenic disturbance are known to affect primate
diversity and abundance. However, researchers have focused on lowland rain
forests, whereas endangered deciduous forests have been neglected. We aimed to
investigate the relationships between primate diversity and abundance and habitat
parameters in 10 deciduous forest fragments southeast of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. We 
obtained primate data via line-transect surveys and visual and acoustic
observations. In addition, we assessed the vegetation structure (canopy height,
understory density), size, isolation time, and surrounding forest area of the
fragments. We interpreted our results in the context of the historical
distribution data for primates in the area before fragmentation and interviews
with local people. We detected 5 of the 8 historically observed primate species: 
Alouatta caraya, Aotus azarae boliviensis, Callithrix melanura, Callicebus
donacophilus, and Cebus libidinosus juruanus. Total species number and detection 
rates decreased with understory density. Detection rates also negatively
correlated with forest areas in the surroundings of a fragment, which may be due 
to variables not assessed, i.e., fragment shape, distance to nearest town.
Observations for Alouatta and Aotus were too few to conduct further statistics.
Cebus and Callicebus were present in 90% and 70% of the sites, respectively, and 
their density did not correlate with any of the habitat variables assessed,
signaling high ecological plasticity and adaptability to anthropogenic impact in 
these species. Detections of Callithrix were higher in areas with low forest
strata. Our study provides baseline data for future fragmentation studies in
Neotropical dry deciduous forests and sets a base for specific conservation
measures.

DOI: 10.1007/s10764-010-9429-z 
PMCID: PMC2945471
PMID: 20949116 


1966. J Pharmacol Sci. 2010;114(3):298-303. Epub 2010 Oct 8.

Zonisamide attenuates MPTP neurotoxicity in marmosets.

Choudhury ME(1), Moritoyo T, Yabe H, Nishikawa N, Nagai M, Kubo M, Matsuda S,
Nomoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Therapeutic Medicine, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Japan.

MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) induces parkinsonism in
humans and animals. The effects of zonisamide on dopamine neurons were studied in
MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Groups of animals (n = 3)
were treated with MPTP (2.5 mg/kg, every 24 h x 3); MPTP plus zonisamide (40
mg/kg administered 1 h before each MPTP dose); MPTP plus selegiline (a known
MAO-B inhibitor) (2 mg/kg administered 1 h before each MPTP dose); and saline
controls. An immunohistochemical study of the substantia nigra was performed 14
days after MPTP treatment in each group. MPTP reduced the mean number of tyrosine
hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons to 10% of the normal control group and mean
cell size was significantly (P < 0.001) reduced from 424 to 159 µm². In the group
pre-treated with zonisamide, the mean number of TH-positive neurons was reduced
to 26% of that in the normal control group and the mean neuron size was
significantly (P < 0.05) increased from 159 to 273 µm² compared with the group
treated with MPTP alone. Moreover, in the group pre-treated with selegiline, the 
mean number of TH-positive neurons was 47% of that in the normal control group
and the mean neuron size was increased significantly (P < 0.01) from 159 to 319
µm² compared to the group treated with MPTP alone. This observation suggests that
zonisamide reduces MPTP toxicity.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.10120fp 
PMID: 20948167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

