

1966. J Pharmacol Sci. 2010;114(3):298-303. Epub 2010 Oct 8.

Zonisamide attenuates MPTP neurotoxicity in marmosets.

Choudhury ME(1), Moritoyo T, Yabe H, Nishikawa N, Nagai M, Kubo M, Matsuda S,
Nomoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Therapeutic Medicine, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Japan.

MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) induces parkinsonism in
humans and animals. The effects of zonisamide on dopamine neurons were studied in
MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Groups of animals (n = 3)
were treated with MPTP (2.5 mg/kg, every 24 h x 3); MPTP plus zonisamide (40
mg/kg administered 1 h before each MPTP dose); MPTP plus selegiline (a known
MAO-B inhibitor) (2 mg/kg administered 1 h before each MPTP dose); and saline
controls. An immunohistochemical study of the substantia nigra was performed 14
days after MPTP treatment in each group. MPTP reduced the mean number of tyrosine
hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons to 10% of the normal control group and mean
cell size was significantly (P < 0.001) reduced from 424 to 159 µm². In the group
pre-treated with zonisamide, the mean number of TH-positive neurons was reduced
to 26% of that in the normal control group and the mean neuron size was
significantly (P < 0.05) increased from 159 to 273 µm² compared with the group
treated with MPTP alone. Moreover, in the group pre-treated with selegiline, the 
mean number of TH-positive neurons was 47% of that in the normal control group
and the mean neuron size was increased significantly (P < 0.01) from 159 to 319
µm² compared to the group treated with MPTP alone. This observation suggests that
zonisamide reduces MPTP toxicity.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.10120fp 
PMID: 20948167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1967. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2010 Sep;41(3):389-94.

Comparison of racemic ketamine versus (S+) ketamine when combined with midazolam 
for anesthesia of Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata.

Furtado MM(1), Nunes AL, Intelizano TR, Teixeira RH, Cortopassi SR.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Medicina Veterinária Preventiva e Saúde Animal, Faculdade de
Medicina Veterinária e Zootecnia, Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil.
marianafurtado@jaguar.org.br

Ten common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and 10 black-tufted marmosets
(Callithrix penicillata) were immobilized to compare the anesthetic effects of
racemic ketamine and (S+) ketamine in combination with midazolam. The animals
were distributed into four groups: five common marmosets (group CJR) and five
black-tufted marmosets (group CPR) received 9.8 +/- 1.4 mg/kg of racemic
ketamine, and five common marmosets (group CJS) and five black-tufted marmosets
(group CPS) received 10.4 +/- 1.6 mg/kg of (S+) ketamine. All groups received
similar dosages of midazolam (1.0 +/- 0.15 mg/kg). During immobilization, heart
rates, respiratory rates, rectal temperatures, and muscle relaxation scores were 
recorded at 5, 10, and 20 min after initial injection. Quality of induction and
quality of recovery were evaluated in each marmoset by recording physical
reactions including withdrawal reflexes, involuntary movements, salivation,
compulsive licking, catalepsy, and ataxia. There were no significant differences 
in the induction, immobilization, and recovery times between the four groups.
Similarly, there were no significant differences between groups in heart rates,
respiratory rates, or body temperatures, although there was a significant
decrease in respiratory rates over time in group CPR. In addition, the CJR and
CPS groups showed significant decreases over time in rectal temperature. Muscle
relaxation was more profound in the CPR group than in the other groups.
Compulsive licking, involuntary movements, salivation, and withdrawal reflexes
were observed more frequently in animals given S(+) ketamine; but in general,
racemic ketamine and S(+) ketamine had similar effects in all callitrichines.
Further studies are required to confirm that S(+) ketamine has different potency 
in these species.

DOI: 10.1638/2008-0016.1 
PMID: 20945634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

