

1969. Endocrinology. 2010 Dec;151(12):5905-15. doi: 10.1210/en.2010-0283. Epub 2010 Sep
29.

A thrombospondin-mimetic peptide, ABT-898, suppresses angiogenesis and promotes
follicular atresia in pre- and early-antral follicles in vivo.

Garside SA(1), Henkin J, Morris KD, Norvell SM, Thomas FH, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, Queens Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, UK.
S.Garside@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Using a novel in vitro angiogenesis assay, we previously showed that
thrombospondin (TSP)-1 has antiangiogenic effects on rat follicles and induces
apoptosis in granulosa cells in vitro. ABT-898 is an octapeptide mimetic of TSP-1
closely related to ABT-510. Here, we demonstrate the inhibitory effects of
ABT-898 on follicular angiogenesis and its proapoptotic effect on granulosa
cells. To investigate the potential of this peptide to inhibit follicular
angiogenesis in vivo, marmoset monkeys were treated with 2.5 mg/kg ABT-898 twice 
daily throughout the follicular phase of the cycle. Although treatment did not
block emergence of dominant follicles, angiogenesis was reduced in preantral and 
early-antral follicles. Furthermore, the incidence of atresia at these follicle
stages was increased. To investigate whether treatment with ABT-898 would
interfere with the timing or duration of the normal ovulatory rise in plasma
progesterone, marmosets were treated with a depot formulation containing 25 mg
ABT-898 at the start of the follicular phase, with a second injection after 2 wk.
Despite active concentrations of peptide being maintained in the circulation, no 
apparent effects on the ovulatory cycle were observed. Taken together, these
results indicate that ABT-898 is capable of having a dual effect by inhibiting
follicular angiogenesis and promoting atresia of antral follicles in vivo but
does not prevent ovulation or induce luteolysis, as has been observed with direct
vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors. These results suggest that ABT-898
could be a novel therapeutic to inhibit abnormal angiogenesis and induce atresia 
of accumulated follicles in polycystic ovary syndrome.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2010-0283 
PMID: 20881256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1970. Am J Primatol. 2010 Nov;72(11):1004-12. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20850.

Pattern of maternal circulating CRH in laboratory-housed squirrel and owl
monkeys.

Power ML(1), Williams LE, Gibson SV, Schulkin J, Helfers J, Zorrilla EP.

Author information: 
(1)Conservation Ecology Center, Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington,
District of Columbia, USA. mpower@acog.org

The anthropoid primate placenta appears to be unique in producing
corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). Placental CRH is involved in an endocrine 
circuit key to the production of estrogens during pregnancy. CRH induces cortisol
production by the maternal and fetal adrenal glands, leading to further placental
CRH production. CRH also stimulates the fetal adrenal glands to produce
dehydroepiandrostendione sulfate (DHEAS), which the placenta converts into
estrogens. There are at least two patterns of maternal circulating CRH across
gestation among anthropoids. Monkeys examined to date (Papio and Callithrix) have
an early-to-mid gestational peak of circulating CRH, followed by a steady decline
to a plateau level, with a possible rise near parturition. In contrast, humans
and great apes have an exponential rise in circulating CRH peaking at
parturition. To further document and compare patterns of maternal circulating CRH
in anthropoid primates, we collected monthly blood samples from 14 squirrel
monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) and ten owl monkeys (Aotus nancymaae) during
pregnancy. CRH immunoreactivity was measured from extracted plasma by using
solid-phase radioimmunoassay. Both squirrel and owl monkeys displayed a
mid-gestational peak in circulating CRH: days 45-65 of the 152-day gestation for 
squirrel monkeys (mean±SEM CRH=2,694±276 pg/ml) and days 60-80 of the 133-day
gestation for owl monkeys (9,871±974 pg/ml). In squirrel monkeys, circulating CRH
declined to 36% of mean peak value by 2 weeks before parturition and then
appeared to increase; the best model for circulating CRH over gestation in
squirrel monkeys was a cubic function, similar to previous results for baboons
and marmosets. In owl monkeys, circulating CRH appeared to reach plateau with no 
subsequent significant decline approaching parturition, although a cubic function
was the best fit. This study provides additional evidence for a mid-gestational
peak of maternal circulating CRH in ancestral anthropoids that has been lost in
the hominoid lineage.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20850 
PMCID: PMC2947327
PMID: 20872786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

