

1970. Am J Primatol. 2010 Nov;72(11):1004-12. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20850.

Pattern of maternal circulating CRH in laboratory-housed squirrel and owl
monkeys.

Power ML(1), Williams LE, Gibson SV, Schulkin J, Helfers J, Zorrilla EP.

Author information: 
(1)Conservation Ecology Center, Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington,
District of Columbia, USA. mpower@acog.org

The anthropoid primate placenta appears to be unique in producing
corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). Placental CRH is involved in an endocrine 
circuit key to the production of estrogens during pregnancy. CRH induces cortisol
production by the maternal and fetal adrenal glands, leading to further placental
CRH production. CRH also stimulates the fetal adrenal glands to produce
dehydroepiandrostendione sulfate (DHEAS), which the placenta converts into
estrogens. There are at least two patterns of maternal circulating CRH across
gestation among anthropoids. Monkeys examined to date (Papio and Callithrix) have
an early-to-mid gestational peak of circulating CRH, followed by a steady decline
to a plateau level, with a possible rise near parturition. In contrast, humans
and great apes have an exponential rise in circulating CRH peaking at
parturition. To further document and compare patterns of maternal circulating CRH
in anthropoid primates, we collected monthly blood samples from 14 squirrel
monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) and ten owl monkeys (Aotus nancymaae) during
pregnancy. CRH immunoreactivity was measured from extracted plasma by using
solid-phase radioimmunoassay. Both squirrel and owl monkeys displayed a
mid-gestational peak in circulating CRH: days 45-65 of the 152-day gestation for 
squirrel monkeys (mean±SEM CRH=2,694±276 pg/ml) and days 60-80 of the 133-day
gestation for owl monkeys (9,871±974 pg/ml). In squirrel monkeys, circulating CRH
declined to 36% of mean peak value by 2 weeks before parturition and then
appeared to increase; the best model for circulating CRH over gestation in
squirrel monkeys was a cubic function, similar to previous results for baboons
and marmosets. In owl monkeys, circulating CRH appeared to reach plateau with no 
subsequent significant decline approaching parturition, although a cubic function
was the best fit. This study provides additional evidence for a mid-gestational
peak of maternal circulating CRH in ancestral anthropoids that has been lost in
the hominoid lineage.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20850 
PMCID: PMC2947327
PMID: 20872786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1971. J Comp Psychol. 2010 Nov;124(4):402-11. doi: 10.1037/a0019736.

Differences in social and vocal behavior between left- and right-handed common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Gordon DJ(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behavior, School of Science and Technology,
University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2350, Australia. dgordon2@une.edu.au

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) show either a left- or right-hand
preference for reaching to pick up food and they retain the same preference
throughout adult life. We compared the behavior of 10 right-handed and 10
left-handed marmosets, matched for age and sex. They were presented with live
crickets both when alone and when in their social group. The marmosets captured
more crickets and the latency to capture the first cricket was shorter when they 
were in a group than when they were alone. This effect of social facilitation was
significantly greater for right- than left-handed individuals. The number of
vocalizations (tsik, crackle, very brief whistle, cough, and phee) produced by
the left- and right-handed marmosets differed significantly: right-handed
marmosets produced an increased number of all of these calls when the crickets
were presented, whereas left-handed marmosets did not show a change from
pretesting levels. The right-handed marmosets also produced more tsik (mobbing)
calls than left-handed marmosets when they were presented with a fear-inducing
stimulus and performed more head cocking and parallax movements than the
left-handed marmosets. Hence, hand preference is associated with differences in
exploratory and social behavior, the latter including vocal communication.

(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2010 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0019736 
PMID: 20853949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

