

1971. J Comp Psychol. 2010 Nov;124(4):402-11. doi: 10.1037/a0019736.

Differences in social and vocal behavior between left- and right-handed common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Gordon DJ(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behavior, School of Science and Technology,
University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2350, Australia. dgordon2@une.edu.au

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) show either a left- or right-hand
preference for reaching to pick up food and they retain the same preference
throughout adult life. We compared the behavior of 10 right-handed and 10
left-handed marmosets, matched for age and sex. They were presented with live
crickets both when alone and when in their social group. The marmosets captured
more crickets and the latency to capture the first cricket was shorter when they 
were in a group than when they were alone. This effect of social facilitation was
significantly greater for right- than left-handed individuals. The number of
vocalizations (tsik, crackle, very brief whistle, cough, and phee) produced by
the left- and right-handed marmosets differed significantly: right-handed
marmosets produced an increased number of all of these calls when the crickets
were presented, whereas left-handed marmosets did not show a change from
pretesting levels. The right-handed marmosets also produced more tsik (mobbing)
calls than left-handed marmosets when they were presented with a fear-inducing
stimulus and performed more head cocking and parallax movements than the
left-handed marmosets. Hence, hand preference is associated with differences in
exploratory and social behavior, the latter including vocal communication.

(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2010 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0019736 
PMID: 20853949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1972. Exp Neurol. 2010 Dec;226(2):320-7. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2010.09.007. Epub
2010 Sep 16.

The partial dopamine agonist pardoprunox (SLV308) administered in combination
with l-dopa improves efficacy and decreases dyskinesia in MPTP treated common
marmosets.

Tayarani-Binazir K(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, McCreary AC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Biomedical and Health
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Dopamine agonist treatment in early Parkinson's disease (PD) induces less
dyskinesia than l-dopa. However, once dyskinesia has developed, dopamine agonists
administered with l-dopa exacerbate involuntary movements. The dopamine partial
D2/D3 agonist pardoprunox reverses motor deficits in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates without hyperactivity, indicating that pardoprunox may alleviate
dyskinesia without compromising l-dopa's beneficial actions. This study examines 
a clinical scenario in which pardoprunox was introduced, in an l-dopa sparing
strategy, to existing l-dopa treatment in MPTP-treated marmosets previously
primed to express dyskinesia. l-Dopa (5-10 mg/kg) produced effects, which were
stable over the 13 treatment days, of increased locomotor activity, reversed
motor disability and marked dyskinesia. Pardoprunox (SLV308; 0.0125-0.025 mg/kg) 
plus l-dopa (3-10 mg/kg) administration increased locomotor activity over the
same treatment period and initially produced an equivalent reversal of motor
disability compared to l-dopa, however this effect was enhanced as treatment
progressed. This reflected the prolonged duration of effect of pardoprunox
compared to that of l-dopa. While pardoprunox plus l-dopa treatment initially
produced dyskinesia to the same extent as l-dopa alone, the intensity diminished 
as treatment progressed and it was significantly different at the end of the
study. On subsequent l-dopa challenge there was no difference in motor disability
reversal between those animals previously treated with pardoprunox plus l-dopa
compared to l-dopa alone but the combination treatment produced significantly
less dyskinesia. These data suggest that pardoprunox may provide therapeutic
benefit in mid to late stage PD by reducing dyskinesia while maintaining efficacy
when used with concomitant l-dopa treatment.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2010.09.007 
PMID: 20843474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

