

1972. Exp Neurol. 2010 Dec;226(2):320-7. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2010.09.007. Epub
2010 Sep 16.

The partial dopamine agonist pardoprunox (SLV308) administered in combination
with l-dopa improves efficacy and decreases dyskinesia in MPTP treated common
marmosets.

Tayarani-Binazir K(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, McCreary AC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Biomedical and Health
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Dopamine agonist treatment in early Parkinson's disease (PD) induces less
dyskinesia than l-dopa. However, once dyskinesia has developed, dopamine agonists
administered with l-dopa exacerbate involuntary movements. The dopamine partial
D2/D3 agonist pardoprunox reverses motor deficits in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates without hyperactivity, indicating that pardoprunox may alleviate
dyskinesia without compromising l-dopa's beneficial actions. This study examines 
a clinical scenario in which pardoprunox was introduced, in an l-dopa sparing
strategy, to existing l-dopa treatment in MPTP-treated marmosets previously
primed to express dyskinesia. l-Dopa (5-10 mg/kg) produced effects, which were
stable over the 13 treatment days, of increased locomotor activity, reversed
motor disability and marked dyskinesia. Pardoprunox (SLV308; 0.0125-0.025 mg/kg) 
plus l-dopa (3-10 mg/kg) administration increased locomotor activity over the
same treatment period and initially produced an equivalent reversal of motor
disability compared to l-dopa, however this effect was enhanced as treatment
progressed. This reflected the prolonged duration of effect of pardoprunox
compared to that of l-dopa. While pardoprunox plus l-dopa treatment initially
produced dyskinesia to the same extent as l-dopa alone, the intensity diminished 
as treatment progressed and it was significantly different at the end of the
study. On subsequent l-dopa challenge there was no difference in motor disability
reversal between those animals previously treated with pardoprunox plus l-dopa
compared to l-dopa alone but the combination treatment produced significantly
less dyskinesia. These data suggest that pardoprunox may provide therapeutic
benefit in mid to late stage PD by reducing dyskinesia while maintaining efficacy
when used with concomitant l-dopa treatment.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2010.09.007 
PMID: 20843474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1973. Anim Cogn. 2011 Mar;14(2):175-86. doi: 10.1007/s10071-010-0351-8. Epub 2010 Sep
10.

Modulation of physical understanding by common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Yamazaki Y(1), Iriki A, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)The Graduate School of Sociology, Keio University, 2F Mita Toho Building,
3-1-7 Mita, Tokyo, 108-0073, Japan. yumyam@brain.riken.jp

The understanding of physical causality in common marmosets was tested using
support problems in which a pair of sheets was presented to determine whether
subjects would choose the sheet that had a food item on it (i.e., the sheet was
supporting the food item). In two experiments, the conditions were manipulated in
terms of the length of the sheet, the distance between the sheet and the food
item, the presence of a gap separating the two sheets, and the size of the food
item. In Experiment 1, the marmosets had difficulty rejecting an irretrievable
food item when it was located closer to them than a retrievable item. Although
their performance was strongly affected by the size of the irretrievable food
item, they quickly learned to reject that alternative. In contrast, no
improvement was found when one sheet was divided into two pieces such that the
food item could not be retrieved when its near side was pulled. A similar
response tendency was observed in Experiment 2, in which the effects of the large
food item were examined in three different conditions. Thus, common marmosets
were influenced by the perceptual features of the food in solving the support
problems, as are other non-human primates. In addition, they consistently failed 
to appreciate the presence of a gap and, therefore, failed to reject the
distracter alternative. However, all animals rapidly learned that the size of the
food item was an irrelevant variable, and some showed an elementary conceptual
understanding of support. These findings suggest that marmosets' physical
understanding may improve with experience.

© The Author(s) 2010. This article is published with open access at
Springerlink.com

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-010-0351-8 
PMCID: PMC3040304
PMID: 20830498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

