

1974. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2011 Mar;214(1):33-53. doi: 10.1007/s00213-010-1989-2.
Epub 2010 Sep 1.

The developmental impact of prenatal stress, prenatal dexamethasone and postnatal
social stress on physiology, behaviour and neuroanatomy of primate offspring:
studies in rhesus macaque and common marmoset.

Pryce CR(1), Aubert Y, Maier C, Pearce PC, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zürich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

RATIONALE: Exposure of the immature mammalian brain to stress factors, including 
stress levels of glucocorticoids, either prenatally or postnatally, is regarded
as a major regulatory factor in short- and long-term brain function and, in
human, as a major aetiological factor in neuropsychiatric disorders. Experimental
human studies are not feasible and animal studies are required to demonstrate
causality and elucidate mechanisms. A number of studies have been conducted and
reviewed in rodents but there are relatively few studies in primates.
OBJECTIVES: Here we present an overview of our published studies and some
original data on the effects of: (1) prenatal stress on
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) re/activity and hippocampus neuroanatomy in 
juvenile-adolescent rhesus macaques; (2) prenatal dexamethasone (DEX) on HPA
activity, behaviour and prefrontal cortex neuroanatomy in infant-adolescent
common marmosets; (3) postnatal daily parental separation stress on HPA
re/activity, behaviour, sleep and hippocampus and prefrontal cortex neuroanatomy 
in infant-adolescent common marmoset.
RESULTS: Prenatal stress increased basal cortisol levels and reduced neurogenesis
in macaque. Prenatal DEX was without effect on HPA activity and reduced social
play and skilled motor behaviour in marmoset. Postnatal social stress increased
basal cortisol levels, reduced social play, increased awakening and reduced
hippocampal glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor expression in marmoset.
CONCLUSIONS: Perinatal stress-related environmental events exert short- and
long-term effects on HPA function, behaviour and brain status in rhesus macaque
and common marmoset. The mechanisms mediating the enduring effects remain to be
elucidated, with candidates including increased basal HPA function and epigenetic
programming.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-010-1989-2 
PMCID: PMC3045510
PMID: 20809212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1975. Vision Res. 2010 Nov 23;50(23):2515-29. doi: 10.1016/j.visres.2010.08.027. Epub
2010 Aug 25.

Ocular wavefront aberrations in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus: effects
of age and refractive error.

Coletta NJ(1), Marcos S, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)The New England College of Optometry, Boston, MA 02115, United States.
colettan@neco.edu

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is a primate model for emmetropization
studies. The refractive development of the marmoset eye depends on visual
experience, so knowledge of the optical quality of the eye is valuable. We report
on the wavefront aberrations of the marmoset eye, measured with a clinical
Hartmann-Shack aberrometer (COAS, AMO Wavefront Sciences). Aberrations were
measured on both eyes of 23 marmosets whose ages ranged from 18 to 452 days.
Twenty-one of the subjects were members of studies of emmetropization and
accommodation, and two were untreated normal subjects. Eleven of the 21
experimental subjects had worn monocular diffusers and 10 had worn binocular
spectacle lenses of equal power. Monocular deprivation or lens rearing began at
about 45 days of age and ended at about 108 days of age. All refractions and
aberration measures were performed while the eyes were cyclopleged; most
aberration measures were made while subjects were awake, but some control
measurements were performed under anesthesia. Wavefront error was expressed as a 
seventh-order Zernike polynomial expansion, using the Optical Society of
America's naming convention. Aberrations in young marmosets decreased up to about
100 days of age, after which the higher-order RMS aberration leveled off to about
0.10 μm over a 3 mm diameter pupil. Higher-order aberrations were 1.8 times
greater when the subjects were under general anesthesia than when they were
awake. Young marmoset eyes were characterized by negative spherical aberration.
Form-deprived eyes of the monocular deprivation animals had greater wavefront
aberrations than their fellow untreated eyes, particularly for asymmetric
aberrations in the odd-numbered Zernike orders. Both lens-treated and
form-deprived eyes showed similar significant increases in Z3(-3) trefoil
aberration, suggesting the increase in trefoil may be related to factors that do 
not involve visual feedback.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2010.08.027 
PMCID: PMC4169274
PMID: 20800078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

