

1975. Vision Res. 2010 Nov 23;50(23):2515-29. doi: 10.1016/j.visres.2010.08.027. Epub
2010 Aug 25.

Ocular wavefront aberrations in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus: effects
of age and refractive error.

Coletta NJ(1), Marcos S, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)The New England College of Optometry, Boston, MA 02115, United States.
colettan@neco.edu

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is a primate model for emmetropization
studies. The refractive development of the marmoset eye depends on visual
experience, so knowledge of the optical quality of the eye is valuable. We report
on the wavefront aberrations of the marmoset eye, measured with a clinical
Hartmann-Shack aberrometer (COAS, AMO Wavefront Sciences). Aberrations were
measured on both eyes of 23 marmosets whose ages ranged from 18 to 452 days.
Twenty-one of the subjects were members of studies of emmetropization and
accommodation, and two were untreated normal subjects. Eleven of the 21
experimental subjects had worn monocular diffusers and 10 had worn binocular
spectacle lenses of equal power. Monocular deprivation or lens rearing began at
about 45 days of age and ended at about 108 days of age. All refractions and
aberration measures were performed while the eyes were cyclopleged; most
aberration measures were made while subjects were awake, but some control
measurements were performed under anesthesia. Wavefront error was expressed as a 
seventh-order Zernike polynomial expansion, using the Optical Society of
America's naming convention. Aberrations in young marmosets decreased up to about
100 days of age, after which the higher-order RMS aberration leveled off to about
0.10 μm over a 3 mm diameter pupil. Higher-order aberrations were 1.8 times
greater when the subjects were under general anesthesia than when they were
awake. Young marmoset eyes were characterized by negative spherical aberration.
Form-deprived eyes of the monocular deprivation animals had greater wavefront
aberrations than their fellow untreated eyes, particularly for asymmetric
aberrations in the odd-numbered Zernike orders. Both lens-treated and
form-deprived eyes showed similar significant increases in Z3(-3) trefoil
aberration, suggesting the increase in trefoil may be related to factors that do 
not involve visual feedback.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2010.08.027 
PMCID: PMC4169274
PMID: 20800078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1976. Chronobiol Int. 2010 Aug;27(7):1420-37. doi: 10.3109/07420528.2010.501416.

Influence of seasonality on circadian motor activity rhythm in common marmosets
during puberty.

Melo PR(1), Belísio AS, Menezes AA, Azevedo CV.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
Brazil.

The effect of puberty on circadian rhythmicity in nonhuman primates has been
little studied, even though it has been demonstrated that puberty-related changes
in circadian activity rhythm occur in a number of species, including humans. To
characterize the motor activity rhythm during puberty in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), six animals was continuously monitored by actimeters
between their 5th and 12th months of age. The animals were housed with their
families in outdoor cages under seminatural conditions. Onset of puberty was
determined from fecal estrogen and progesterone levels in females and androgen
levels in males. The spectral power of the circadian component stabilized later
in the last two animals to enter puberty. The bimodal characteristic of the
active phase in this species became progressively more apparent over the course
of the months in which the mean temperature was highest, irrespective of the
animal's age. Although the onset of activity advanced after entry into puberty,
this parameter showed a strong correlation with sunrise, indicating that
seasonality influences this variable. Neither age nor climatic factors included
in the regression model influenced the differences in phase angles between
sunrise and onset of activity, and between sunset and offset of activity. Total
activity was the only parameter influenced by age in the regression model,
showing an increase after entry into puberty. Despite the evidence of pubertal
influence on both the circadian component and total activity, under seminatural
conditions seasonal factors may have a more important effect on motor activity
rhythm in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.3109/07420528.2010.501416 
PMID: 20795884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

