

1976. Chronobiol Int. 2010 Aug;27(7):1420-37. doi: 10.3109/07420528.2010.501416.

Influence of seasonality on circadian motor activity rhythm in common marmosets
during puberty.

Melo PR(1), Belísio AS, Menezes AA, Azevedo CV.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
Brazil.

The effect of puberty on circadian rhythmicity in nonhuman primates has been
little studied, even though it has been demonstrated that puberty-related changes
in circadian activity rhythm occur in a number of species, including humans. To
characterize the motor activity rhythm during puberty in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), six animals was continuously monitored by actimeters
between their 5th and 12th months of age. The animals were housed with their
families in outdoor cages under seminatural conditions. Onset of puberty was
determined from fecal estrogen and progesterone levels in females and androgen
levels in males. The spectral power of the circadian component stabilized later
in the last two animals to enter puberty. The bimodal characteristic of the
active phase in this species became progressively more apparent over the course
of the months in which the mean temperature was highest, irrespective of the
animal's age. Although the onset of activity advanced after entry into puberty,
this parameter showed a strong correlation with sunrise, indicating that
seasonality influences this variable. Neither age nor climatic factors included
in the regression model influenced the differences in phase angles between
sunrise and onset of activity, and between sunset and offset of activity. Total
activity was the only parameter influenced by age in the regression model,
showing an increase after entry into puberty. Despite the evidence of pubertal
influence on both the circadian component and total activity, under seminatural
conditions seasonal factors may have a more important effect on motor activity
rhythm in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.3109/07420528.2010.501416 
PMID: 20795884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1977. J Immunol. 2010 Oct 1;185(7):3990-4003. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1001393. Epub 2010 
Aug 25.

Late B cell depletion with a human anti-human CD20 IgG1κ monoclonal antibody
halts the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in marmosets.

Kap YS(1), van Driel N, Blezer E, Parren PW, Bleeker WK, Laman JD, Craigen JL, 't
Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Depletion of CD20(+) B cells has been related to reduced clinical activity in
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. The underlying mechanism is not
understood, because serum IgG levels were unaltered by the treatment. We report
the effect of late B cell depletion on cellular and humoral immune mechanisms in 
a preclinical multiple sclerosis model (i.e., experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis [EAE] in the common marmoset). We used a novel human anti-human
CD20 IgG1κ mAb (HuMab 7D8) that cross-reacts with marmoset CD20. EAE was induced 
in 14 marmosets by immunization with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG) in CFA. After 21 d, B cells were depleted in seven monkeys by 
HuMab 7D8, and seven control monkeys received PBS. The Ab induced profound and
long-lasting B cell depletion from PBMCs and lymphoid organs throughout the
observation period of 106 d. Whereas all of the control monkeys developed
clinically evident EAE, overt neurologic deficits were reduced substantially in
three HuMab 7D8-treated monkeys, and four HuMab 7D8-treated monkeys remained
completely asymptomatic. The effect of HuMab 7D8 was confirmed on magnetic
resonance images, detecting only small lesions in HuMab 7D8-treated monkeys. The 
infusion of HuMab 7D8 arrested the progressive increase of anti-MOG IgG Abs.
Although CD3(+) T cell numbers in lymphoid organs were increased, their
proliferation and cytokine production were impaired significantly. Most notable
were the substantially reduced mRNA levels of IL-7 and proinflammatory cytokines 
(IL-6, IL-17A, IFN-γ, and TNF-α). In conclusion, B cell depletion prevents the
development of clinical and pathological signs of EAE, which is associated with
impaired activation of MOG-reactive T cells in lymphoid organs.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1001393 
PMID: 20739677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

