

1979. Reproduction. 2010 Nov;140(5):733-42. doi: 10.1530/REP-10-0235. Epub 2010 Aug 20.

Germ cell dynamics in the testis of the postnatal common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

Albert S(1), Ehmcke J, Wistuba J, Eildermann K, Behr R, Schlatt S, Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, University of Münster, Domagkstrasse 11, 48149 Münster,
Germany.

The seminiferous epithelium in the nonhuman primate Callithrix jacchus is
similarly organized to man. This monkey has therefore been used as a preclinical 
model for spermatogenesis and testicular stem cell physiology. However, little is
known about the developmental dynamics of germ cells in the postnatal primate
testis. In this study, we analyzed testes of newborn, 8-week-old, and adult
marmosets employing immunohistochemistry using pluripotent stem cell and germ
cell markers DDX4 (VASA), POU5F1 (OCT3/4), and TFAP2C (AP-2γ). Stereological and 
morphometric techniques were applied for quantitative analysis of germ cell
populations and testicular histological changes. Quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) of
testicular mRNA was applied using 16 marker genes establishing the corresponding 
profiles during postnatal testicular development. Testis size increased during
the first 8 weeks of life with the main driver being longitudinal outgrowth of
seminiferous cords. The number of DDX4-positive cells per testis doubled between 
birth and 8 weeks of age whereas TFAP2C- and POU5F1-positive cells remained
unchanged. This increase in DDX4-expressing cells indicates dynamic growth of the
differentiated A-spermatogonial population. The presence of cells expressing
POU5F1 and TFAP2C after 8 weeks reveals the persistence of less differentiated
germ cells. The mRNA and protein profiles determined by qRT-PCR and western blot 
in newborn, 8-week-old, and adult marmosets corroborated the immunohistochemical 
findings. In conclusion, we demonstrated the presence of distinct spermatogonial 
subpopulations in the primate testis exhibiting different dynamics during early
testicular development. Our study demonstrates the suitability of the marmoset
testis as a model for human testicular development.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-10-0235 
PMID: 20729334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1980. Mov Disord. 2010 Oct 15;25(13):2059-66. doi: 10.1002/mds.23249.

Pardoprunox reverses motor deficits but induces only mild dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Johnston LC(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, McCreary AC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Long-acting full dopamine D(2) agonists produce less dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated primates and in
Parkinson's disease than effective antiparkinsonian doses of levodopa. They do
not however, prevent priming for dyskinesia expression on subsequent levodopa
exposure. In contrast, the effects of partial D(2) receptor agonists on
dyskinesia are unclear. We now examine the ability of the partial D(2) agonist
pardoprunox (SLV308) to improve motor function and its propensity to prime for
dyskinesia in drug naïve, MPTP-treated common marmosets. Previously, drug naïve, 
MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with equivalent doses of either
pardoprunox (SLV308) (0.1 mg/kg po), ropinirole (0.18 mg/kg po), or levodopa (10 
mg/kg po BID) for 28 days. All treatments induced a similar reduction of motor
disability. Dyskinesia induced by levodopa was of greater intensity than that
following administration of either pardoprunox (SLV308) or ropinirole.
Administration of pardoprunox (SLV308) resulted in dyskinesia that was less
intense and of shorter duration than either ropinirole or levodopa. At the end of
drug treatment, acute challenge with levodopa resulted in the expression of
marked dyskinesia in animals that had previously received chronic levodopa or
ropinirole treatment. However, animals previously treated with pardoprunox
(SLV308) showed only mild dyskinesia in response to the levodopa challenge. These
results suggest that the partial D(2) agonist pardoprunox (SLV308) is less likely
to prime for dyskinesia or to lead to the expression of dyskinesia than either
levodopa or full dopamine agonists.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.23249 
PMID: 20721904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

