

1980. Mov Disord. 2010 Oct 15;25(13):2059-66. doi: 10.1002/mds.23249.

Pardoprunox reverses motor deficits but induces only mild dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Johnston LC(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, McCreary AC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Long-acting full dopamine D(2) agonists produce less dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated primates and in
Parkinson's disease than effective antiparkinsonian doses of levodopa. They do
not however, prevent priming for dyskinesia expression on subsequent levodopa
exposure. In contrast, the effects of partial D(2) receptor agonists on
dyskinesia are unclear. We now examine the ability of the partial D(2) agonist
pardoprunox (SLV308) to improve motor function and its propensity to prime for
dyskinesia in drug naïve, MPTP-treated common marmosets. Previously, drug naïve, 
MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with equivalent doses of either
pardoprunox (SLV308) (0.1 mg/kg po), ropinirole (0.18 mg/kg po), or levodopa (10 
mg/kg po BID) for 28 days. All treatments induced a similar reduction of motor
disability. Dyskinesia induced by levodopa was of greater intensity than that
following administration of either pardoprunox (SLV308) or ropinirole.
Administration of pardoprunox (SLV308) resulted in dyskinesia that was less
intense and of shorter duration than either ropinirole or levodopa. At the end of
drug treatment, acute challenge with levodopa resulted in the expression of
marked dyskinesia in animals that had previously received chronic levodopa or
ropinirole treatment. However, animals previously treated with pardoprunox
(SLV308) showed only mild dyskinesia in response to the levodopa challenge. These
results suggest that the partial D(2) agonist pardoprunox (SLV308) is less likely
to prime for dyskinesia or to lead to the expression of dyskinesia than either
levodopa or full dopamine agonists.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.23249 
PMID: 20721904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1981. Neurobiol Dis. 2010 Dec;40(3):599-607. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2010.08.004. Epub 2010 
Aug 14.

Morphological changes in serotoninergic neurites in the striatum and globus
pallidus in levodopa primed MPTP treated common marmosets with dyskinesia.

Zeng BY(1), Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Rose S, Parent A, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)NDRG, School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Hyperinnervation of the striatum by serotoninergic (5-HT) terminals occurs after 
destruction of the dopaminergic nigro-striatal pathway. Recent studies have
suggested that non-physiological release of dopamine (DA) formed from levodopa in
these serotoninergic terminals underlies abnormal involuntary movement (AIMs)
induction in 6-OHDA lesioned rats. In the present study, we used tryptophan
hydroxylase (TPH) immunohistochemistry to determine whether
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) treatment and
the induction of dyskinesia by levodopa alter the morphology of 5-HT fibres in
the striatum of common marmosets. The caudate-putamen of normal monkeys contained
numerous fine and smooth TPH positive fibres and numerous varicose fibres, but a 
marked hyperinnervation of TPH positive fibres characterised by a significant
increase in the number and diameter of TPH positive axon varicosities was noted
in the dorsal caudate and putamen of MPTP-intoxicated monkeys but not the globus 
pallidus. In MPTP-intoxicated marmosets that had received chronic levodopa
treatment to induce dyskinesia, a further increase in the number and enlargement 
of TPH positive axonal varicosities in both caudate nucleus and putamen was
evident. Following LID induction, a similar pattern of increase was also observed
in the external segment of the globus pallidus, but only a significant varicosity
enlargement was seen in the internal pallidal segment. These results confirm that
striatal 5-HT hyperinnervation follows nigro-striatal pathway loss and provide
the first evidence in primates that chronic levodopa treatment and the onset of
dyskinesia are associated with a marked hypertrophy of striatal 5-HT axonal
varicosities. These findings support the concept that altered 5-HT function may
contribute to the genesis or expression of LID.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2010.08.004 
PMID: 20713157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

