

1982. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2010 Aug;136(2):72-6.

[Telemetric monitoring of cardiovascular function in drug discovery].

[Article in Japanese]

Nishio M(1).

Author information: 
(1)nishio.masashi@mv.mt-pharma.co.jp

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.136.72 
PMID: 20702964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1983. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2011 Sep;6(3):341-53. doi: 10.1007/s11481-010-9238-3.
Epub 2010 Aug 12.

Effects of early IL-17A neutralization on disease induction in a primate model of
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

Kap YS(1), Jagessar SA, van Driel N, Blezer E, Bauer J, van Meurs M, Smith P,
Laman JD, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, P.O. Box 3306
2280 GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

We report on the effect of antibody-mediated neutralization of interleukin
(IL)-17A in a non-human primate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE)
model induced with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (rhMOG).
We tested a human-anti-human IL-17A-antibody in two doses (3 and 30 mg/kg)
against placebo (PBS). The treatment was started 1 day before EAE induction and
continued throughout the experiment. Although all monkeys developed clinically
evident EAE, the onset of neurological signs was delayed in some monkeys from
both treatment groups. Total CNS lesion volumes, demyelination, or inflammation
did not differ between the different groups. Immune profiling revealed an altered
distribution of IL-17A producing cells in the lymphoid organs of antibody-treated
monkeys. Comparable numbers of IL-17A producing cells were observed in the brain.
RhMOG-induced T cell proliferation in the lymph nodes was slightly reduced after 
anti-IL-17A antibody treatment. To summarize, we found that anti-IL-17A antibody 
as a single treatment from disease induction effects a trend towards delayed
neurological disease progression in the marmoset EAE model, although the effect
did not reach statistical significance. This suggests a role of IL-17A in late
stage disease in the marmoset EAE model, but IL-17A may not be the dominant
pathogenic cytokine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-010-9238-3 
PMCID: PMC3128270
PMID: 20700661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

