

1983. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2011 Sep;6(3):341-53. doi: 10.1007/s11481-010-9238-3.
Epub 2010 Aug 12.

Effects of early IL-17A neutralization on disease induction in a primate model of
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

Kap YS(1), Jagessar SA, van Driel N, Blezer E, Bauer J, van Meurs M, Smith P,
Laman JD, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, P.O. Box 3306
2280 GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

We report on the effect of antibody-mediated neutralization of interleukin
(IL)-17A in a non-human primate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE)
model induced with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (rhMOG).
We tested a human-anti-human IL-17A-antibody in two doses (3 and 30 mg/kg)
against placebo (PBS). The treatment was started 1 day before EAE induction and
continued throughout the experiment. Although all monkeys developed clinically
evident EAE, the onset of neurological signs was delayed in some monkeys from
both treatment groups. Total CNS lesion volumes, demyelination, or inflammation
did not differ between the different groups. Immune profiling revealed an altered
distribution of IL-17A producing cells in the lymphoid organs of antibody-treated
monkeys. Comparable numbers of IL-17A producing cells were observed in the brain.
RhMOG-induced T cell proliferation in the lymph nodes was slightly reduced after 
anti-IL-17A antibody treatment. To summarize, we found that anti-IL-17A antibody 
as a single treatment from disease induction effects a trend towards delayed
neurological disease progression in the marmoset EAE model, although the effect
did not reach statistical significance. This suggests a role of IL-17A in late
stage disease in the marmoset EAE model, but IL-17A may not be the dominant
pathogenic cytokine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-010-9238-3 
PMCID: PMC3128270
PMID: 20700661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1984. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2010 Sep 1;878(25):2299-306. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2010.06.018. Epub 2010 Jun 25.

Determination of ticagrelor and two metabolites in plasma samples by liquid
chromatography and mass spectrometry.

Sillén H(1), Cook M, Davis P.

Author information: 
(1)AstraZeneca R&D, Mölndal, Sweden. Henrik.Sillen@astrazeneca.com

Rapid and sensitive analytical methods using liquid chromatography with tandem
mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) were developed for the determination of ticagrelor, 
the first reversible oral platelet P2Y(12) receptor inhibitor, and its
metabolites AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX in human plasma. Ticagrelor and its
metabolites were extracted using protein precipitation with acetonitrile.
Chromatographic separations were performed on reversed phase columns and
detection using atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI). Ticagrelor and
AR-C124910XX were analyzed in the same assay, with the internal standard,
d7-ZD6140, on a C18 column using negative ionization; AR-C133913XX analyzed
separately on a phenyl column using positive ionization. Full validation of the
methods was performed including selectivity, lower limit of quantification,
accuracy, precision stability and incurred sample reproducibility and incurred
sample stability. Total analytical run time was short (2 min). Calibration curves
were established in the range 5-5000ng/mL for ticagrelor, 2.5-2500 ng/mL for
AR-C124910XX and 2-1000 ng/mL for AR-C133913XX. Lower limits of quantification
for ticagrelor, AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX were determined to be 5, 2.5 and
2.0 ng/mL, respectively from 100 microL of human plasma. For ticagrelor,
AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX, mean intra-batch accuracy was 91.9-109.0%,
86.8-109.2% and 100.5-112.0%, respectively; intra-batch precision was 4.0-8.4%,
5.2-16.9% and 3.9-12.3%, respectively. The methods were also applied to
quantification of ticagrelor, AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX in rabbit, rat, mouse
and marmoset, using 25 microL of animal plasma. A modified methodology was
developed to quantify ticagrelor and AR-C124910XX in plasma from dog and
cynomolgus monkey. Human incurred samples were found to generate consistent
reproducibility and stability results. This method was successfully applied to
determine plasma concentrations following administration of ticagrelor in human
volunteers and patients, and animal safety evaluation studies. This validated
methods has the advantages of being straightforward, robust and allows a fast
throughput of samples.
