

1984. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2010 Sep 1;878(25):2299-306. doi: 
10.1016/j.jchromb.2010.06.018. Epub 2010 Jun 25.

Determination of ticagrelor and two metabolites in plasma samples by liquid
chromatography and mass spectrometry.

Sillén H(1), Cook M, Davis P.

Author information: 
(1)AstraZeneca R&D, Mölndal, Sweden. Henrik.Sillen@astrazeneca.com

Rapid and sensitive analytical methods using liquid chromatography with tandem
mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) were developed for the determination of ticagrelor, 
the first reversible oral platelet P2Y(12) receptor inhibitor, and its
metabolites AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX in human plasma. Ticagrelor and its
metabolites were extracted using protein precipitation with acetonitrile.
Chromatographic separations were performed on reversed phase columns and
detection using atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI). Ticagrelor and
AR-C124910XX were analyzed in the same assay, with the internal standard,
d7-ZD6140, on a C18 column using negative ionization; AR-C133913XX analyzed
separately on a phenyl column using positive ionization. Full validation of the
methods was performed including selectivity, lower limit of quantification,
accuracy, precision stability and incurred sample reproducibility and incurred
sample stability. Total analytical run time was short (2 min). Calibration curves
were established in the range 5-5000ng/mL for ticagrelor, 2.5-2500 ng/mL for
AR-C124910XX and 2-1000 ng/mL for AR-C133913XX. Lower limits of quantification
for ticagrelor, AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX were determined to be 5, 2.5 and
2.0 ng/mL, respectively from 100 microL of human plasma. For ticagrelor,
AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX, mean intra-batch accuracy was 91.9-109.0%,
86.8-109.2% and 100.5-112.0%, respectively; intra-batch precision was 4.0-8.4%,
5.2-16.9% and 3.9-12.3%, respectively. The methods were also applied to
quantification of ticagrelor, AR-C124910XX and AR-C133913XX in rabbit, rat, mouse
and marmoset, using 25 microL of animal plasma. A modified methodology was
developed to quantify ticagrelor and AR-C124910XX in plasma from dog and
cynomolgus monkey. Human incurred samples were found to generate consistent
reproducibility and stability results. This method was successfully applied to
determine plasma concentrations following administration of ticagrelor in human
volunteers and patients, and animal safety evaluation studies. This validated
methods has the advantages of being straightforward, robust and allows a fast
throughput of samples.

2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2010.06.018 
PMID: 20688583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1985. J Neurophysiol. 2010 Oct;104(4):1884-98. doi: 10.1152/jn.01118.2009. Epub 2010
Aug 4.

Linear and nonlinear contributions to the visual sensitivity of neurons in
primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Solomon SG(1), Tailby C, Cheong SK, Camp AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute,
University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
samuels@physiol.usyd.edu.au

Several parallel pathways convey retinal signals to the visual cortex of
primates. The signals of the parvocellular (P) and magnocellular (M) pathways are
well characterized; the properties of other rarely encountered cell types are
distinctive in many ways, but it is not clear that they can provide signals with 
the same fidelity. Here we study this by characterizing the temporal receptive
field of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of anesthetized marmosets. For
each neuron, we measured the response to a flickering uniform field, and, from
this, estimated the linear and nonlinear receptive fields using spike-triggered
average (STA) and spike-triggered covariance (STC) analyses. As expected the
response of most P-cells was dominated by the STA, but the response of most
M-cells required additional nonlinear components, and these usually acted to
suppress cell responses. The STC analysis showed stronger suppressive axes in
suppressed-by-contrast cells, and both suppressive and excitatory axes in on-off 
cells. Together, the STA and the STC analyses form a model of the temporal
response to a large uniform field: under this model, the information that was
provided by suppressed-by-contrast cells or on-off cells approached that provided
by the P- and M-cells. However, whereas P- and M-cells provided more information 
about luminance, the nonlinear cells provided more information about the contrast
energy. This suggests that the nonlinear cells provide complimentary signals to
those of P- and M-cells, with reasonably high fidelity, and may play an important
role in normal visual processing.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01118.2009 
PMID: 20685925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

