

1987. Genes Cells. 2010 Sep 1;15(9):959-69. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2010.01437.x. Epub
2010 Jul 28.

Generating induced pluripotent stem cells from common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) fetal liver cells using defined factors, including Lin28.

Tomioka I(1), Maeda T, Shimada H, Kawai K, Okada Y, Igarashi H, Oiwa R, Iwasaki
T, Aoki M, Kimura T, Shiozawa S, Shinohara H, Suemizu H, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kanagawa, Japan.

Although embryonic stem (ES) cell-like induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells have 
potential therapeutic applications in humans, they are also useful for creating
genetically modified human disease models in nonhuman primates. In this study, we
generated common marmoset iPS cells from fetal liver cells via the
retrovirus-mediated introduction of six human transcription factors: Oct-3/4,
Sox2, Klf4, c-Myc, Nanog, and Lin28. Four to five weeks after introduction,
several colonies resembling marmoset ES cells were observed and picked for
further expansion in ES cell medium. Eight cell lines were established, and
validation analyses of the marmoset iPS cells followed. We detected the
expression of ES cell-specific surface markers. Reverse transcription-PCR showed 
that these iPS cells expressed endogenous Oct-3/4, Sox2, Klf4, c-Myc, Nanog and
Lin28 genes, whereas all of the transgenes were silenced. Karyotype analysis
showed that two of three iPS cell lines retained a normal karyotype after a
2-month culture. Both embryoid body and teratoma formation showed that marmoset
iPS cells had the developmental potential to give rise to differentiated
derivatives of all three primary germ layers. In summary, we generated marmoset
iPS cells via the transduction of six transcription factors; this provides a
powerful preclinical model for studies in regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2010.01437.x 
PMCID: PMC2970909
PMID: 20670273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1988. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2010 Sep;54(9):3922-6. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00390-10.
Epub 2010 Jul 12.

Bioavailability and efficacy of levofloxacin against Francisella tularensis in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Lever MS, Dean RE, Pearce PC, Stevens DJ, Simpson AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Porton Down,
Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4 0JQ, United Kingdom. mnelson@dstl.gov.uk

Pharmacokinetic and efficacy studies with levofloxacin were performed in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of inhalational tularemia. Plasma
levofloxacin pharmacokinetics were determined in six animals in separate
single-dose and multidose studies. Plasma drug concentrations were analyzed using
liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry-electrospray ionization. On day 7 
of a twice-daily dosing regimen of 40 mg/kg, the levofloxacin half-life, maximum 
concentration, and area under the curve in marmoset plasma were 2.3 h, 20.9
microg/ml, and 81.4 microg/liter/h, respectively. An efficacy study was
undertaken using eight treated and two untreated control animals. Marmosets were 
challenged with a mean of 1.5 x 10(2) CFU of Francisella tularensis by the
airborne route. Treated animals were administered 16.5 mg/kg levofloxacin by
mouth twice daily, based on the pharmacokinetic parameters, beginning 24 h after 
challenge. Control animals had a raised core body temperature by 57 h
postchallenge and died from infection by day 5. All of the other animals
survived, remained afebrile, and lacked overt clinical signs. No bacteria were
recovered from the organs of these animals at postmortem after culling at day 24 
postchallenge. In conclusion, postexposure prophylaxis with orally administered
levofloxacin was efficacious against acute inhalational tularemia in the common
marmoset. The marmoset appears to be an appropriate animal model for the
evaluation of postexposure therapies.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00390-10 
PMCID: PMC2934983
PMID: 20625157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

