

1988. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2010 Sep;54(9):3922-6. doi: 10.1128/AAC.00390-10.
Epub 2010 Jul 12.

Bioavailability and efficacy of levofloxacin against Francisella tularensis in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Lever MS, Dean RE, Pearce PC, Stevens DJ, Simpson AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Porton Down,
Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4 0JQ, United Kingdom. mnelson@dstl.gov.uk

Pharmacokinetic and efficacy studies with levofloxacin were performed in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of inhalational tularemia. Plasma
levofloxacin pharmacokinetics were determined in six animals in separate
single-dose and multidose studies. Plasma drug concentrations were analyzed using
liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry-electrospray ionization. On day 7 
of a twice-daily dosing regimen of 40 mg/kg, the levofloxacin half-life, maximum 
concentration, and area under the curve in marmoset plasma were 2.3 h, 20.9
microg/ml, and 81.4 microg/liter/h, respectively. An efficacy study was
undertaken using eight treated and two untreated control animals. Marmosets were 
challenged with a mean of 1.5 x 10(2) CFU of Francisella tularensis by the
airborne route. Treated animals were administered 16.5 mg/kg levofloxacin by
mouth twice daily, based on the pharmacokinetic parameters, beginning 24 h after 
challenge. Control animals had a raised core body temperature by 57 h
postchallenge and died from infection by day 5. All of the other animals
survived, remained afebrile, and lacked overt clinical signs. No bacteria were
recovered from the organs of these animals at postmortem after culling at day 24 
postchallenge. In conclusion, postexposure prophylaxis with orally administered
levofloxacin was efficacious against acute inhalational tularemia in the common
marmoset. The marmoset appears to be an appropriate animal model for the
evaluation of postexposure therapies.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00390-10 
PMCID: PMC2934983
PMID: 20625157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1989. Am J Primatol. 2010 Dec;72(12):1039-46. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20860.

Hunting strategies in wild common marmosets are prey and age dependent.

Schiel N(1), Souto A, Huber L, Bezerra BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, Rua Dom Manoel 
Medeiros s/n, Dois Irmãos, Recife/Pernambuco, Brazil. nschiel@yahoo.com

We investigated the hunting strategies of wild common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) to determine whether the strategies differed among animals of different 
age classes and/or prey type. The study was conducted in a fragment of Atlantic
Rain Forest, situated 40 km from Recife (PE/Brazil). Twenty-seven individuals
from four social groups were observed. Captured prey items were divided into
three categories. The hunting strategies of the common marmosets were ranked into
four categories. The acquisition of larger prey (items more than 2.0 cm) involved
the appropriate body movements and postures that concealed the approaching
marmosets, whereas the acquisition of smaller prey (items under 2.0 cm) involved 
less concealing behaviors. Furthermore, adults and juveniles (age ≥ 5 months)
were more capable of capturing larger prey than were younger (1-2 months) or
older infants (3-4 months). Although older infants were successful in capturing
certain prey, they often failed when they attempted to capture larger prey that
jumped and/or used flight to escape. The results suggest that both the experience
of the monkeys and escape behavior of the prey affect predation efficiency in
wild common marmosets.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20860 
PMID: 20623501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

