

1989. Am J Primatol. 2010 Dec;72(12):1039-46. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20860.

Hunting strategies in wild common marmosets are prey and age dependent.

Schiel N(1), Souto A, Huber L, Bezerra BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, Rua Dom Manoel 
Medeiros s/n, Dois Irmãos, Recife/Pernambuco, Brazil. nschiel@yahoo.com

We investigated the hunting strategies of wild common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) to determine whether the strategies differed among animals of different 
age classes and/or prey type. The study was conducted in a fragment of Atlantic
Rain Forest, situated 40 km from Recife (PE/Brazil). Twenty-seven individuals
from four social groups were observed. Captured prey items were divided into
three categories. The hunting strategies of the common marmosets were ranked into
four categories. The acquisition of larger prey (items more than 2.0 cm) involved
the appropriate body movements and postures that concealed the approaching
marmosets, whereas the acquisition of smaller prey (items under 2.0 cm) involved 
less concealing behaviors. Furthermore, adults and juveniles (age ≥ 5 months)
were more capable of capturing larger prey than were younger (1-2 months) or
older infants (3-4 months). Although older infants were successful in capturing
certain prey, they often failed when they attempted to capture larger prey that
jumped and/or used flight to escape. The results suggest that both the experience
of the monkeys and escape behavior of the prey affect predation efficiency in
wild common marmosets.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20860 
PMID: 20623501  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1990. J Med Chem. 2010 Aug 12;53(15):5801-12. doi: 10.1021/jm1005429.

Discovery of
N-[(2S)-5-(6-fluoro-3-pyridinyl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2-yl]-2-propanesulfonamide,
a novel clinical AMPA receptor positive modulator.

Ward SE(1), Harries M, Aldegheri L, Andreotti D, Ballantine S, Bax BD, Harris AJ,
Harker AJ, Lund J, Melarange R, Mingardi A, Mookherjee C, Mosley J, Neve M,
Oliosi B, Profeta R, Smith KJ, Smith PW, Spada S, Thewlis KM, Yusaf SP.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, GlaxoSmithKline, New
Frontiers Science Park, Harlow, Essex, UK. simon.e.ward@gsk.com

A series of AMPA receptor positive allosteric modulators has been optimized from 
poorly penetrant leads to identify molecules with excellent preclinical
pharmacokinetics and CNS penetration. These discoveries led to 17i, a potent,
efficacious CNS penetrant molecule with an excellent pharmacokinetic profile
across preclinical species, which is well tolerated and is also orally
bioavailable in humans.

DOI: 10.1021/jm1005429 
PMID: 20614889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

