

199. Biomed Phys Eng Express. 2020 Jul 7;6(4):045022. doi: 10.1088/2057-1976/ab8d97.

Design and construction of a gradient coil for high resolution marmoset imaging.

Handler WB(1), Bindseil G, Chaddock R, Dalrymple B, Gati JS, Gilbert KM, Harris
CT, Klassen ML, Peterson J, Van Sas F, Chronik BA.

Author information: 
(1)xMR lab, Physics and Astronomy Department, Western University, London,
Ontario, Canada.

A gradient coil with integrated second and third order shims has been designed
and constructed for use inside an actively shielded 310 mm horizontal bore 9.4 T 
small animal MRI. An extension of the boundary element method, to minimise the
power deposited in conducting surfaces, was used to design the gradients, and a
boundary element method with a constraint on mutual inductance was used to design
the shims. The gradient coil allows for improved imaging performance and was
optimized for an imaging region appropriate for marmoset imaging studies.
Efficiencies of 1.5 mT m-1 A-1 were achieved in a 15 cm wide bore while
maintaining gradient uniformity ≤5% over the 8 cm region of interest. Two new
cooling methods were implemented which allowed the gradient coil to operate at
100 A RMS, 25 % of max current with a temperature rise below 30 C.

DOI: 10.1088/2057-1976/ab8d97 
PMID: 33444282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Sci Rep. 2021 Jan 12;11(1):825. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-80632-3.

Higher social tolerance in wild versus captive common marmosets: the role of
interdependence.

de Oliveira Terceiro FE(1)(2), Arruda MF(3), van Schaik CP(4), Araújo A(3),
Burkart JM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Behaviour, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Norte, Av. Sen. Salgado Filho, 3000 - Candelária, Natal, RN, 59064-741, Brazil.
deoliveiraterceiro@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Anthropology, Universität Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057,
Zürich, Switzerland. deoliveiraterceiro@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Physiology and Behaviour, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Norte, Av. Sen. Salgado Filho, 3000 - Candelária, Natal, RN, 59064-741, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anthropology, Universität Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057,
Zürich, Switzerland.

Social tolerance in a group reflects the balance between within-group competition
and interdependence: whereas increased competition leads to a reduction in social
tolerance, increased interdependence increases it. Captivity reduces both feeding
competition and interdependence and can therefore affect social tolerance. In
independently breeding primates, social tolerance has been shown to be higher in 
captivity, indicating a strong effect of food abundance. It is not known,
however, how social tolerance in cooperative breeders, with their much higher
interdependence, responds to captivity. Here, we therefore compared social
tolerance between free-ranging and captive groups in the cooperatively breeding
common marmoset and found higher social tolerance (measured as proximity near
food, co-feeding, and food sharing) in the wild. Most likely, social tolerance in
the wild is higher because interdependence is particularly high in the wild,
especially because infant care is more costly there than in captivity. These
results indicate that the high social tolerance of these cooperative breeders in 
captivity is not an artefact, and that captive data may even have underestimated 
it. They may also imply that the cooperative breeding and foraging of our hominin
ancestors, which relied on strong interdependence at multiple levels, was
associated with high social tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-80632-3 
PMCID: PMC7804027
PMID: 33436898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

