

1990. J Med Chem. 2010 Aug 12;53(15):5801-12. doi: 10.1021/jm1005429.

Discovery of
N-[(2S)-5-(6-fluoro-3-pyridinyl)-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-2-yl]-2-propanesulfonamide,
a novel clinical AMPA receptor positive modulator.

Ward SE(1), Harries M, Aldegheri L, Andreotti D, Ballantine S, Bax BD, Harris AJ,
Harker AJ, Lund J, Melarange R, Mingardi A, Mookherjee C, Mosley J, Neve M,
Oliosi B, Profeta R, Smith KJ, Smith PW, Spada S, Thewlis KM, Yusaf SP.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, GlaxoSmithKline, New
Frontiers Science Park, Harlow, Essex, UK. simon.e.ward@gsk.com

A series of AMPA receptor positive allosteric modulators has been optimized from 
poorly penetrant leads to identify molecules with excellent preclinical
pharmacokinetics and CNS penetration. These discoveries led to 17i, a potent,
efficacious CNS penetrant molecule with an excellent pharmacokinetic profile
across preclinical species, which is well tolerated and is also orally
bioavailable in humans.

DOI: 10.1021/jm1005429 
PMID: 20614889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1991. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2010 Aug;81(2):73-85. doi: 10.1159/000313011. Epub 2010
Jul 6.

Functional context of scent-marking in Callithrix penicillata.

Oliveira DG(1), Macedo RH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Comportamento Animal, Universidade de Brasília, Brasília,
Brazil.

Most mammals use olfactory signals for communicating identity, reproductive
status and group-related dynamics. Callitrichids produce secretions as olfactory 
signals, the functional context of which is poorly known, especially in the wild.
We analysed the functional significance of scent-marking in a free-ranging group 
of Callithrix penicillata in central Brazil. We recorded all occurrences of
scent-marking according to context and conducted 10-min focal observations of
adults and 'scan sampling' of the focal tree. We recorded the sex of
scent-marking individuals and the location of occurrence within the home range,
and found that there was no variation in rate of marking relative to either
variable. However, females marked more along areas of contact with other groups
in the home range and less in the core (non-contact) areas. Scent-marking in
intergroup encounters, even when in agonistic contexts, was not associated with
territorial disputes between groups. This suggests distinct functions for
scent-marking for intra- versus intergroup communication. We also found a
positive correlation between rate of scent-marking and height in the resource
tree and between exudativory and air humidity.

(c) 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000313011 
PMID: 20606455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

