

1991. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2010 Aug;81(2):73-85. doi: 10.1159/000313011. Epub 2010
Jul 6.

Functional context of scent-marking in Callithrix penicillata.

Oliveira DG(1), Macedo RH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Comportamento Animal, Universidade de Brasília, Brasília,
Brazil.

Most mammals use olfactory signals for communicating identity, reproductive
status and group-related dynamics. Callitrichids produce secretions as olfactory 
signals, the functional context of which is poorly known, especially in the wild.
We analysed the functional significance of scent-marking in a free-ranging group 
of Callithrix penicillata in central Brazil. We recorded all occurrences of
scent-marking according to context and conducted 10-min focal observations of
adults and 'scan sampling' of the focal tree. We recorded the sex of
scent-marking individuals and the location of occurrence within the home range,
and found that there was no variation in rate of marking relative to either
variable. However, females marked more along areas of contact with other groups
in the home range and less in the core (non-contact) areas. Scent-marking in
intergroup encounters, even when in agonistic contexts, was not associated with
territorial disputes between groups. This suggests distinct functions for
scent-marking for intra- versus intergroup communication. We also found a
positive correlation between rate of scent-marking and height in the resource
tree and between exudativory and air humidity.

(c) 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000313011 
PMID: 20606455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1992. J Med Chem. 2010 Aug 12;53(15):5827-43. doi: 10.1021/jm100482n.

Design and synthesis of novel tricyclic benzoxazines as potent 5-HT(1A/B/D)
receptor antagonists leading to the discovery of
6-{2-[4-(2-methyl-5-quinolinyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl}-4H-imidazo[5,1-c][1,4]benzox
azine-3-carboxamide (GSK588045).

Bromidge SM(1), Arban R, Bertani B, Bison S, Borriello M, Cavanni P, Dal Forno G,
Di-Fabio R, Donati D, Fontana S, Gianotti M, Gordon LJ, Granci E, Leslie CP,
Moccia L, Pasquarello A, Sartori I, Sava A, Watson JM, Worby A, Zonzini L,
Zucchelli V.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences CEDD, GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park, Harlow,
Essex, UK. stevebromidge@gmail.com

Bioisoteric replacement of the metabolically labile N-methyl amide group of a
series of benzoxazinones with small heterocyclic rings has led to novel series of
fused tricyclic benzoxazines which are potent 5-HT(1A/B/D) receptor antagonists
with and without concomitant human serotonin transporter (hSerT) activity.
Optimizing against multiple parameters in parallel identified
6-{2-[4-(2-methyl-5-quinolinyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl}-4H-imidazo[5,1-c][1,4]benzox
azine-3-carboxamide (GSK588045) as a potent 5-HT(1A/B/D) receptor antagonist with
a high degree of selectivity over human ether-a-go-go related gene (hERG)
potassium channels, favorable pharmacokinetics, and excellent activity in vivo in
rodent pharmacodynamic (PD) models. On the basis of its outstanding overall
profile, this compound was progressed as a clinical candidate with the ultimate
aim to assess its potential as a faster acting antidepressant/anxiolytic with
reduced side-effect burden.

DOI: 10.1021/jm100482n 
PMID: 20590088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

