

1994. Biol Lett. 2011 Feb 23;7(1):23-5. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2010.0455. Epub 2010 Jun 23.

Brevity is not always a virtue in primate communication.

Bezerra BM(1), Souto AS, Radford AN, Jones G.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, , Woodland Road, Bristol
BS8 1UG, UK.

Semple et al. (Semple et al. in press, Biol. Lett. (doi:10.1098/rsbl.2009.1062)) 
argued that the 'law of brevity' (an inverse relationship between word length and
frequency of use) applies not only to human language but also to vocal signalling
in non-human primates, because coding efficiency is paramount in both situations.
We analysed the frequency of use of signals of different duration in the vocal
repertoires of two Neotropical primate species studied in the wild-the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and the golden-backed uakari (Cacajao
melanocephalus). The key prediction of the law of brevity was not supported in
either species: although the most frequently emitted calls were relatively brief,
they were not the shortest signals in the repertoire. The costs and benefits
associated with signals of different duration must be appreciated to understand
properly their frequency of use. Although relatively brief vocal signals may be
favoured by natural selection in order to minimize energetic costs, the very
briefest signals may be ambiguous, contain reduced information or be difficult to
detect or locate, and may therefore be selected against. Analogies between human 
language and vocal communication in animals can be misleading as a basis for
understanding frequency of use, because coding efficiency is not the only factor 
of importance in animal communication, and the costs and benefits associated with
different signal durations will vary in a species-specific manner.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2010.0455 
PMCID: PMC3030868
PMID: 20573617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1995. J Anat. 2011 Jan;218(1):151-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-7580.2010.01247.x.

Finite element analysis of performance in the skulls of marmosets and tamarins.

Dumont ER(1), Davis JL, Grosse IR, Burrows AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA, USA. 
bdumont@bio.umass.edu

Reliance on plant exudates is a relatively rare dietary specialization among
mammals. One well-studied example of closely related exudate feeders is the New
World marmosets and tamarins. Whereas marmosets actively gouge tree bark with
their incisors to stimulate the flow of sap, tamarins are opportunistic exudate
feeders that do not gouge bark. Several studies of the dentaries and jaw
adductors indicate that marmosets exhibit specializations for increased gape at
the expense of bite force. Few studies, however, have looked to the cranium of
marmosets for evidence of functional specializations. Using 3D finite element
models of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus and the tamarin Saguinus fuscicollis,
we investigated the performance of the cranium under loading regimes that
mimicked unilateral molar biting and bark-gouging. We investigated three measures
of performance: the efficiency with which muscle force is transferred to bite
force, the extent to which the models are stressed (a predictor of failure), and 
the work expended by muscles as they deform the skull (total strain energy). We
found that during molar biting the two models exhibited similar levels of
performance, though the Saguinus model had slightly higher mechanical efficiency,
a slightly lower state of stress, and expended more energy on deformation. In
contrast, under the bark-gouging load, Callithrix exhibited much higher
mechanical efficiency than Saguinas, but did so at the expense of more work and
higher levels of von Mises stress. This analysis illustrates that differences in 
the shapes of the skulls of Callithrix and Saguinus confer differences in
performance. Whether these aspects of performance are targets of selection awaits
broader comparative analyses.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal of Anatomy © 2010 Anatomical Society of Great Britain
and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7580.2010.01247.x 
PMCID: PMC3039787
PMID: 20572898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

