

1995. J Anat. 2011 Jan;218(1):151-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-7580.2010.01247.x.

Finite element analysis of performance in the skulls of marmosets and tamarins.

Dumont ER(1), Davis JL, Grosse IR, Burrows AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA, USA. 
bdumont@bio.umass.edu

Reliance on plant exudates is a relatively rare dietary specialization among
mammals. One well-studied example of closely related exudate feeders is the New
World marmosets and tamarins. Whereas marmosets actively gouge tree bark with
their incisors to stimulate the flow of sap, tamarins are opportunistic exudate
feeders that do not gouge bark. Several studies of the dentaries and jaw
adductors indicate that marmosets exhibit specializations for increased gape at
the expense of bite force. Few studies, however, have looked to the cranium of
marmosets for evidence of functional specializations. Using 3D finite element
models of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus and the tamarin Saguinus fuscicollis,
we investigated the performance of the cranium under loading regimes that
mimicked unilateral molar biting and bark-gouging. We investigated three measures
of performance: the efficiency with which muscle force is transferred to bite
force, the extent to which the models are stressed (a predictor of failure), and 
the work expended by muscles as they deform the skull (total strain energy). We
found that during molar biting the two models exhibited similar levels of
performance, though the Saguinus model had slightly higher mechanical efficiency,
a slightly lower state of stress, and expended more energy on deformation. In
contrast, under the bark-gouging load, Callithrix exhibited much higher
mechanical efficiency than Saguinas, but did so at the expense of more work and
higher levels of von Mises stress. This analysis illustrates that differences in 
the shapes of the skulls of Callithrix and Saguinus confer differences in
performance. Whether these aspects of performance are targets of selection awaits
broader comparative analyses.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal of Anatomy © 2010 Anatomical Society of Great Britain
and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7580.2010.01247.x 
PMCID: PMC3039787
PMID: 20572898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1996. Primates. 2011 Jan;52(1):43-50. doi: 10.1007/s10329-010-0205-7. Epub 2010 Jun 22.

Development of infant common marmosets' (Callithrix jacchus) preference for their
parents over adults from another group.

Saito A(1), Izumi A, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan. casaito@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Parent-offspring attachment is important for animals which have offspring that
require parental care for their development. Infant attachment to the mother has 
been examined in macaques, but it remains poorly understood in common marmosets. 
Here, we examined the abilities of 14 common marmoset infants to show preference 
for their parents over adults from another group at the ages of 4, 10, and
15 weeks. Each infant was exposed to its parent and an adult from another group
in an I-shaped maze. Although 4-week-old infants did not show a significant
difference between approach behaviors toward their parents and other adults, 10- 
and 15-week-old infants approached and stayed longer near their parents than
adults from another group. These results suggest selective approach behavior
develops in marmosets by the age of 10 weeks.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-010-0205-7 
PMID: 20567877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

