

1996. Primates. 2011 Jan;52(1):43-50. doi: 10.1007/s10329-010-0205-7. Epub 2010 Jun 22.

Development of infant common marmosets' (Callithrix jacchus) preference for their
parents over adults from another group.

Saito A(1), Izumi A, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan. casaito@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Parent-offspring attachment is important for animals which have offspring that
require parental care for their development. Infant attachment to the mother has 
been examined in macaques, but it remains poorly understood in common marmosets. 
Here, we examined the abilities of 14 common marmoset infants to show preference 
for their parents over adults from another group at the ages of 4, 10, and
15 weeks. Each infant was exposed to its parent and an adult from another group
in an I-shaped maze. Although 4-week-old infants did not show a significant
difference between approach behaviors toward their parents and other adults, 10- 
and 15-week-old infants approached and stayed longer near their parents than
adults from another group. These results suggest selective approach behavior
develops in marmosets by the age of 10 weeks.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-010-0205-7 
PMID: 20567877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1997. Science. 2010 Jun 18;328(5985):1563-6. doi: 10.1126/science.1187197.

Down-regulation of a host microRNA by a Herpesvirus saimiri noncoding RNA.

Cazalla D(1), Yario T, Steitz JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale University School of Medicine, Boyer Center for Molecular
Medicine, 295 Congress Avenue, New Haven, CT 06536, USA.

Erratum in
    Science. 2010 Sep 17;329(5998):1467. Steitz, Joan [corrected to Steitz, Joan A].

Comment in
    Science. 2010 Jun 18;328(5985):1494-5.

T cells transformed by Herpesvirus saimiri express seven viral U-rich noncoding
RNAs of unknown function called HSURs. We noted that conserved sequences in HSURs
1 and 2 constitute potential binding sites for three host-cell microRNAs
(miRNAs). Coimmunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that HSURs 1 and 2 interact
with the predicted miRNAs in virally transformed T cells. The abundance of one of
these miRNAs, miR-27, is dramatically lowered in transformed cells, with
consequent effects on the expression of miR-27 target genes. Transient knockdown 
and ectopic expression of HSUR 1 demonstrate that it directs degradation of
mature miR-27 in a sequence-specific and binding-dependent manner. This viral
strategy illustrates use of a ncRNA to manipulate host-cell gene expression via
the miRNA pathway.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1187197 
PMCID: PMC3075239
PMID: 20558719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

