

1998. J Med Microbiol. 2010 Sep;59(Pt 9):1107-1113. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.020669-0. Epub
2010 Jun 17.

Characterization of lethal inhalational infection with Francisella tularensis in 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Lever MS(1), Dean RE(1), Savage VL(1), Salguero FJ(2), Pearce PC(1),
Stevens DJ(1), Simpson AJH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4 0JQ, UK.
(2)Veterinary Laboratories Agency, Weybridge, Addlestone, Surrey KT15 3NB, UK.

The intracellular Gram-negative pathogen Francisella tularensis is the causative 
agent of tularaemia and is prevalent in many countries in the northern
hemisphere. To determine whether the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) would
be a suitable non-human primate model of inhalational tularaemia, a
pathophysiology study was undertaken. Ten animals were challenged with
approximately 10(2) c.f.u. F. tularensis strain SCHU S4 (F. tularensis subsp.
tularensis). To look for trends in the infection, pairs of animals were
sacrificed at 24 h intervals between 0 and 96 h post-challenge and blood and
organs were assessed for bacteriology, pathology and haematological and
immunological parameters. The first indication of infection was a raised core
temperature at 3 days post-challenge. This coincided with a number of other
factors: a rapid increase in the number of bacteria isolated from all organs,
more pronounced gross pathology and histopathology, and an increase in the
immunological response. As the disease progressed, higher bacterial and cytokine 
levels were detected. More extensive pathology was observed, with multifocal
lesions seen in the lungs, liver and spleen. Disease progression in the common
marmoset appears to be consistent with human clinical and pathological features
of tularaemia, indicating that this may be a suitable animal model for the
investigation of novel medical interventions such as vaccines or therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.020669-0 
PMCID: PMC3052436
PMID: 20558585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1999. Am J Primatol. 2010 Nov;72(11):974-80. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20854.

The communicative content of the common marmoset phee call during antiphonal
calling.

Miller CT(1), Mandel K, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, San Diego, 92093, USA.
corymiller@ucsd.edu

Vocalizations are a dominant means of communication for numerous species,
including nonhuman primates. These acoustic signals are encoded with a rich array
of information available to signal receivers that can be used to guide
species-typical behaviors. In this study, we examined the communicative content
of common marmoset phee calls, the species-typical long distance contact call,
during antiphonal calling. This call type has a relatively stereotyped acoustic
structure, consisting of a series of long tonal pulses. Analyses revealed that
calls could be reliably classified based on the individual identity and social
group of the caller. Our analyses did not, however, correctly classify phee calls
recorded under different social contexts, although differences were evident along
individual acoustic parameters. Further tests of antiphonal calling interactions 
showed that spontaneously produced phee calls differ from antiphonal phee calls
in their peak and end frequency, which may be functionally significant. Overall, 
this study shows that the marmoset phee call has a rich communicative content
encoded in its acoustic structure available to conspecifics during antiphonal
calling exchanges.

Â© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20854 
PMCID: PMC3715969
PMID: 20549761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

