

1999. Am J Primatol. 2010 Nov;72(11):974-80. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20854.

The communicative content of the common marmoset phee call during antiphonal
calling.

Miller CT(1), Mandel K, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of California, San Diego, 92093, USA.
corymiller@ucsd.edu

Vocalizations are a dominant means of communication for numerous species,
including nonhuman primates. These acoustic signals are encoded with a rich array
of information available to signal receivers that can be used to guide
species-typical behaviors. In this study, we examined the communicative content
of common marmoset phee calls, the species-typical long distance contact call,
during antiphonal calling. This call type has a relatively stereotyped acoustic
structure, consisting of a series of long tonal pulses. Analyses revealed that
calls could be reliably classified based on the individual identity and social
group of the caller. Our analyses did not, however, correctly classify phee calls
recorded under different social contexts, although differences were evident along
individual acoustic parameters. Further tests of antiphonal calling interactions 
showed that spontaneously produced phee calls differ from antiphonal phee calls
in their peak and end frequency, which may be functionally significant. Overall, 
this study shows that the marmoset phee call has a rich communicative content
encoded in its acoustic structure available to conspecifics during antiphonal
calling exchanges.

Â© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20854 
PMCID: PMC3715969
PMID: 20549761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2000. Syst Biol Reprod Med. 2010 Jun;56(3):207-12. doi: 10.3109/19396361003653311.

The marmoset and cotton rat as animal models for the study of sperm chromatin
packaging.

Nanassy L(1), Griffin J, Emery BR, Carrell DT.

Author information: 
(1)Andrology and IVF Laboratories, Department of Surgery, University of Utah
School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.

In the human, canonical histones are largely replaced by protamine 1 (P1) and
protamine 2 (P2) during late spermatogenesis. Recent studies have demonstrated
that abnormal replacement of the histones is associated with severe male
infertility and has profound implications for early embryogenesis. In this review
the hispid cotton rat and the common marmoset are evaluated as animal models for 
the study of chromatin packaging in sperm. The DNA sequences of protamine 1 and
protamine 2 in the cotton rat are also reported. We have found that the P1 and P2
genes share a 64% and 56% amino acid identity with human, respectively. The
hispid cotton rat expresses both protamines, has a similar P1:P2 ratio, and a
gene sequence homologous to human, thus making it a possible model organism for
chromatin studies. The common marmoset also expresses both protamine genes and
has a very similar spermatogenetic characteristic to man. This review considers
both animals as possible models to study the mechanisms of protamine regulation
and the effects of altered expression caused by environmental or physiological
perturbations.

DOI: 10.3109/19396361003653311 
PMID: 20536320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

