

20. Elife. 2022 Jan 20;11. pii: e71647. doi: 10.7554/eLife.71647.

An open-source tool for automated analysis of breathing behaviors in common
marmosets and rodents.

Bishop M(1), Weinhold M(1), Turk AZ(1), Adeck A(1), SheikhBahaei S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuron-Glia Signaling and Circuits Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda,
United States.

The respiratory system maintains homeostatic levels of oxygen (O2) and carbon
dioxide (CO2) in the body through rapid and efficient regulation of breathing
frequency and depth (tidal volume). The commonly used methods of analyzing
breathing data in behaving experimental animals are usually subjective,
laborious, and time-consuming. To overcome these hurdles, we optimized an
analysis toolkit for the unsupervised study of respiratory activities in animal
subjects. Using this tool, we analyzed breathing behaviors of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a New World non-human primate model. Using whole-body
plethysmography in room air as well as acute hypoxic (10% O2) and hypercapnic (6%
CO2) conditions, we describe breathing behaviors in awake, freely behaving
marmosets. Our data indicate that marmosets' exposure to acute hypoxia decreased 
metabolic rate and increased sigh rate. However, the hypoxic condition did not
augment ventilation. Hypercapnia, on the other hand, increased both the frequency
and depth (i.e., tidal volume) of breathing.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.71647 
PMCID: PMC8856653
PMID: 35049499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MB, MW, AT, AA, SS No competing interests
declared


21. Infect Immun. 2022 Mar 17;90(3):e0055021. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00550-21. Epub 2022
Jan 18.

The Innate Immune Response in the Marmoset during the Acute Pneumonic Disease
Caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei.

Ngugi S(1), Laws T(1), Simpson AJ(1)(2)(3), Nelson M(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBR division, DSTL Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Lao-Oxford-Mahosot Hospital-Wellcome Trust Research Unit (LOMWRU), Mahosot
Hospital, Vientiane, Lao People's Democratic Republic.
(3)Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of
Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of melioidosis, a severe human
infection that is difficult to treat with antibiotics and for which there is no
effective vaccine. Development of novel treatments rely upon appropriately
characterized animal models. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has been
established at Defense Science and Technology laboratories (DSTL) as a model of
melioidosis. Further analysis was performed on samples generated in these studies
to provide a description of the innate immune response. Many of the immunological
features described, (migration/activation of neutrophils and macrophages,
activation of T cells, elevation of key cytokines IFNγ, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β)
have been observed in acute melioidosis human cases and correlated with
prognosis. Expression of the MHCII marker (HLA-DR) on neutrophils showed
potential as a diagnostic with 80% accuracy when comparing pre- and postchallenge
levels in paired blood samples. Discriminant analysis of cell surface, activation
markers on neutrophils combined with levels of key cytokines, differentiated
between disease states from single blood samples with 78% accuracy. These key
markers have utility as a prototype postexposure, presymptomatic diagnostic.
Ultimately, these data further validate the use of the marmoset as a suitable
model for determining efficacy of medical countermeasures against B.
pseudomallei.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00550-21 
PMCID: PMC8929355
PMID: 35041487 

