

200. Sci Rep. 2021 Jan 12;11(1):825. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-80632-3.

Higher social tolerance in wild versus captive common marmosets: the role of
interdependence.

de Oliveira Terceiro FE(1)(2), Arruda MF(3), van Schaik CP(4), Araújo A(3),
Burkart JM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Behaviour, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Norte, Av. Sen. Salgado Filho, 3000 - Candelária, Natal, RN, 59064-741, Brazil.
deoliveiraterceiro@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Anthropology, Universität Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057,
Zürich, Switzerland. deoliveiraterceiro@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Physiology and Behaviour, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Norte, Av. Sen. Salgado Filho, 3000 - Candelária, Natal, RN, 59064-741, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anthropology, Universität Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057,
Zürich, Switzerland.

Social tolerance in a group reflects the balance between within-group competition
and interdependence: whereas increased competition leads to a reduction in social
tolerance, increased interdependence increases it. Captivity reduces both feeding
competition and interdependence and can therefore affect social tolerance. In
independently breeding primates, social tolerance has been shown to be higher in 
captivity, indicating a strong effect of food abundance. It is not known,
however, how social tolerance in cooperative breeders, with their much higher
interdependence, responds to captivity. Here, we therefore compared social
tolerance between free-ranging and captive groups in the cooperatively breeding
common marmoset and found higher social tolerance (measured as proximity near
food, co-feeding, and food sharing) in the wild. Most likely, social tolerance in
the wild is higher because interdependence is particularly high in the wild,
especially because infant care is more costly there than in captivity. These
results indicate that the high social tolerance of these cooperative breeders in 
captivity is not an artefact, and that captive data may even have underestimated 
it. They may also imply that the cooperative breeding and foraging of our hominin
ancestors, which relied on strong interdependence at multiple levels, was
associated with high social tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-80632-3 
PMCID: PMC7804027
PMID: 33436898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Netw Neurosci. 2020 Dec 1;4(4):1181-1196. doi: 10.1162/netn_a_00159. eCollection 
2020.

Network topology of the marmoset connectome.

Liu ZQ(1), Zheng YQ(2), Misic B(1).

Author information: 
(1)McConnell Brain Imaging Centre, Montréal Neurological Institute, McGill
University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Biomedical Engineering, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

The brain is a complex network of interconnected and interacting neuronal
populations. Global efforts to understand the emergence of behavior and the
effect of perturbations depend on accurate reconstruction of white matter
pathways, both in humans and in model organisms. An emerging animal model for
next-generation applied neuroscience is the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
A recent open respository of retrograde and anterograde tract tracing presents an
opportunity to systematically study the network architecture of the marmoset
brain (Marmoset Brain Architecture Project; http://www.marmosetbrain.org). Here
we comprehensively chart the topological organization of the mesoscale marmoset
cortico-cortical connectome. The network possesses multiple nonrandom attributes 
that promote a balance between segregation and integration, including
near-minimal path length, multiscale community structure, a connective core, a
unique motif composition, and multiple cavities. Altogether, these structural
attributes suggest a link between network architecture and function. Our findings
are consistent with previous reports across a range of species, scales, and
reconstruction technologies, suggesting a small set of organizational principles 
universal across phylogeny. Collectively, these results provide a foundation for 
future anatomical, functional, and behavioral studies in this model organism.

© 2020 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

DOI: 10.1162/netn_a_00159 
PMCID: PMC7781610
PMID: 33409435 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared
that no competing interests exist.

