

2001. J Neurosci. 2010 May 26;30(21):7314-25. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5072-09.2010.

Contribution of inhibition to stimulus selectivity in primary auditory cortex of 
awake primates.

Sadagopan S(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Recent studies have demonstrated the high selectivity of neurons in primary
auditory cortex (A1) and a highly sparse representation of sounds by the
population of A1 neurons in awake animals. However, the underlying receptive
field structures that confer high selectivity on A1 neurons are poorly
understood. The sharp tuning of A1 neurons' excitatory receptive fields (RFs)
provides a partial explanation of the above properties. However, it remains
unclear how inhibitory components of RFs contribute to the selectivity of A1
neurons observed in awake animals. To examine the role of the inhibition in
sharpening stimulus selectivity, we have quantitatively analyzed stimulus-induced
suppressive effects over populations of single neurons in frequency, amplitude,
and time in A1 of awake marmosets. In addition to the well documented
short-latency side-band suppression elicited by masking tones around the best
frequency (BF) of a neuron, we uncovered long-latency suppressions caused by
single-tone stimulation. Such long-latency suppressions also included
monotonically increasing suppression with sound level both on-BF and off-BF, and 
persistent suppression lasting up to 100 ms after stimulus offset in a
substantial proportion of A1 neurons. The extent of the suppression depended on
the shape of a neuron's frequency-response area ("O" or "V" shaped). These
findings suggest that the excitatory RF of A1 neurons is cocooned by wide-ranging
inhibition that contributes to the high selectivity in A1 neurons' responses to
complex stimuli. Population sparseness of the tone-responsive A1 neuron
population may also be a consequence of this pervasive inhibition.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5072-09.2010 
PMCID: PMC3842484
PMID: 20505098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2002. J Comp Neurol. 2010 Jul 1;518(13):2633-44. doi: 10.1002/cne.22356.

SPP1 is expressed in corticospinal neurons of the macaque sensorimotor cortex.

Higo N(1), Sato A, Yamamoto T, Nishimura Y, Oishi T, Murata Y, Onoe H,
Yoshino-Saito K, Tsuboi F, Takahashi M, Isa T, Kojima T.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial
Science and Technology (AIST), Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8568, Japan.
n.higo@aist.go.jp

The cellular distribution of SPP1, which we recently identified as a gene with
greater expression in the macaque primary motor cortex than in the premotor or
prefrontal cortices, was examined in rhesus macaque, common marmoset, and rat
brains. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that SPP1 mRNA was
expressed specifically in pyramidal neurons in layer V of the sensorimotor cortex
of the rhesus macaque. These SPP1 mRNA-positive neurons were most abundant in the
primary motor area, followed by Brodmann area 5 and the supplementary motor area,
in accordance with the distribution of corticospinal neurons. In addition,
injection of a retrograde neuroanatomical tracer into the lateral corticospinal
tract (CST) of the spinal cord caused labeling of SPP1 positive neurons,
indicating the expression of SPP1 in corticospinal neurons. SPP1 was also
expressed in the thalamus, brainstem, and spinal ventral horn of the rhesus
macaque. Although SPP1 was also detected in the brainstem and spinal cord of the 
marmoset and the rat, it was not detected in their cerebral cortices. Selective
expression in the corticospinal neurons of the sensorimotor cortex of the rhesus 
macaque suggests that SPP1 plays a critical role in the functional or structural 
specialization of highly developed corticospinal systems in certain primate
species.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22356 
PMID: 20503431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

