

2003. J Neurotrauma. 2010 Jul;27(7):1321-32. doi: 10.1089/neu.2010.1294.

Upregulation of EphA4 on astrocytes potentially mediates astrocytic gliosis after
cortical lesion in the marmoset monkey.

Goldshmit Y(1), Bourne J.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia. yona.goldshmit@med.monash.edu.au

Glial scar formation occurs in response to brain injury in mammalian models and
inhibits axonal growth. Identification of molecules that may mediate reactivity
of astrocytes has become a leading therapeutic goal in the field of neurotrauma. 
In adult rodent brain and spinal cord, many of the Eph receptors and their ephrin
ligands have been demonstrated to be upregulated on reactive astrocytes at the
injury site; however, little is known about the expression of these molecules in 
nonhuman primate injury models. This study examines the role of the tyrosine
kinase EphA4 receptor, which predominantly binds most ephrin ligands, after
injury in marmoset monkey brain. Following lesioning of the primary visual cortex
(V1) in the adult marmoset, EphA4 is strongly upregulated on reactive astrocytes 
around the lesion site, which secrete extracellular matrix molecules such as
chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, which are known for their inhibitory effect on
axonal growth and regeneration. This astrocyte reactivity was also associated
with neuronal death in the area adjacent to the lesion site. EphA4 activation
induced by clustered ephrin A5-Fc-mediated astrocyte proliferation and glial
fibrillary acidic protein expression in vitro, as demonstrated by closure of
scratched wound and MTT assays, occurs via two potential signaling pathways, the 
mitogen-activated protein kinase and Rho pathways. These results in a nonhuman
primate model highlight the importance of developing pharmacotherapeutic
approaches to block these molecules following brain injury.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2010.1294 
PMID: 20486805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2004. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Oct;51(10):5288-96. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-5389.
Epub 2010 May 19.

Evaluation of AAV-mediated expression of Chop2-GFP in the marmoset retina.

Ivanova E(1), Hwang GS, Pan ZH, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Wayne State University School of
Medicine, Detroit, Michigan, USA. eivanova@med.wayne.edu

PURPOSE: Converting inner retinal neurons to photosensitive cells by expressing
channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) offers a novel approach for treating blindness caused
by retinal degenerative diseases. In the present study, the recombinant
adeno-associated virus serotype 2 (rAAV2)-mediated expression and function of a
fusion construct of channelopsin-2 (Chop2) and green fluorescent protein (GFP)
(Chop2-GFP) were evaluated in the inner retinal neurons in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus.
METHODS: rAAV2 vectors carrying ubiquitous promoters were injected into the
vitreous chamber. Expression of Chop2-GFP and functional properties of ChR2 were 
examined by immunocytochemical and electrophysiological methods 3 months after
injection.
RESULTS: The percentage of Chop2-GFP-expressing cells in the ganglion cell layer 
was found to be retinal region- and animal age-dependent. The highest percentage 
was observed in the far-peripheral region. Chop2-GFP expression was also found in
the foveal and parafoveal region. In the peripheral retina in young animals with 
high viral concentrations, the expression of Chop2-GFP was observed in all major 
classes of retinal neurons, including all major types of ganglion cells. The
morphologic properties of Chop2-GFP-positive cells were normal for at least 3
months, and ChR2-mediated light responses were demonstrated by
electrophysiological recordings.
CONCLUSIONS: The rAAV2-mediated expression of ChR2 was observed in the inner
retinal neurons in the marmoset retina through intravitreal delivery. The
marmoset could be a valuable nonhuman primate model for developing ChR2-based
gene therapy for treating blinding retinal degenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-5389 
PMCID: PMC2939198
PMID: 20484599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

