

2004. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2010 Oct;51(10):5288-96. doi: 10.1167/iovs.10-5389.
Epub 2010 May 19.

Evaluation of AAV-mediated expression of Chop2-GFP in the marmoset retina.

Ivanova E(1), Hwang GS, Pan ZH, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Wayne State University School of
Medicine, Detroit, Michigan, USA. eivanova@med.wayne.edu

PURPOSE: Converting inner retinal neurons to photosensitive cells by expressing
channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) offers a novel approach for treating blindness caused
by retinal degenerative diseases. In the present study, the recombinant
adeno-associated virus serotype 2 (rAAV2)-mediated expression and function of a
fusion construct of channelopsin-2 (Chop2) and green fluorescent protein (GFP)
(Chop2-GFP) were evaluated in the inner retinal neurons in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus.
METHODS: rAAV2 vectors carrying ubiquitous promoters were injected into the
vitreous chamber. Expression of Chop2-GFP and functional properties of ChR2 were 
examined by immunocytochemical and electrophysiological methods 3 months after
injection.
RESULTS: The percentage of Chop2-GFP-expressing cells in the ganglion cell layer 
was found to be retinal region- and animal age-dependent. The highest percentage 
was observed in the far-peripheral region. Chop2-GFP expression was also found in
the foveal and parafoveal region. In the peripheral retina in young animals with 
high viral concentrations, the expression of Chop2-GFP was observed in all major 
classes of retinal neurons, including all major types of ganglion cells. The
morphologic properties of Chop2-GFP-positive cells were normal for at least 3
months, and ChR2-mediated light responses were demonstrated by
electrophysiological recordings.
CONCLUSIONS: The rAAV2-mediated expression of ChR2 was observed in the inner
retinal neurons in the marmoset retina through intravitreal delivery. The
marmoset could be a valuable nonhuman primate model for developing ChR2-based
gene therapy for treating blinding retinal degenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.10-5389 
PMCID: PMC2939198
PMID: 20484599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2005. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2010 Jun 15;20(12):3768-71. doi:
10.1016/j.bmcl.2010.04.058. Epub 2010 Apr 18.

Synthetic studies on selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonists. Part II:
synthesis and structure-activity relationships of novel benzofuran derivatives.

Saku O(1), Saki M, Kurokawa M, Ikeda K, Uchida S, Takizawa T, Uesaka N.

Author information: 
(1)Fuji Research Park, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd, Suntou-gun, Shizuoka, Japan.
osamu.saku@kyowa-kirin.co.jp

Based on the previously reported lead compound, a series of benzofuran
derivatives were prepared to study their antagonistic activities to A(2A)
receptor. The replacement of the phenyl group at the 4-position with a
heterocyclic ring improved the PK profile and aqueous solubility. From these
studies, we discovered a potent new A(2A) antagonist, 12a, which has both a good 
oral bioavailability and in vivo efficacy on motor disability in MPTP-treated
common marmosets.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2010.04.058 
PMID: 20483600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

