

2005. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2010 Jun 15;20(12):3768-71. doi:
10.1016/j.bmcl.2010.04.058. Epub 2010 Apr 18.

Synthetic studies on selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonists. Part II:
synthesis and structure-activity relationships of novel benzofuran derivatives.

Saku O(1), Saki M, Kurokawa M, Ikeda K, Uchida S, Takizawa T, Uesaka N.

Author information: 
(1)Fuji Research Park, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd, Suntou-gun, Shizuoka, Japan.
osamu.saku@kyowa-kirin.co.jp

Based on the previously reported lead compound, a series of benzofuran
derivatives were prepared to study their antagonistic activities to A(2A)
receptor. The replacement of the phenyl group at the 4-position with a
heterocyclic ring improved the PK profile and aqueous solubility. From these
studies, we discovered a potent new A(2A) antagonist, 12a, which has both a good 
oral bioavailability and in vivo efficacy on motor disability in MPTP-treated
common marmosets.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2010.04.058 
PMID: 20483600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2006. J Neurosci. 2010 May 12;30(19):6577-87. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0277-10.2010.

Neural correlates of context-dependent perceptual enhancement in the inferior
colliculus.

Nelson PC(1), Young ED.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Hearing and Balance, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. pcnelson@jhu.edu

In certain situations, preceding auditory stimulation can actually result in
heightened sensitivity to subsequent sounds. Many of these phenomena appear to be
generated in the brain as reflections of central computations. One example is the
robust perceptual enhancement (or "pop out") of a probe signal within a broadband
sound whose onset time is delayed relative to the remainder of a mixture of
tones. Here we show that the neural representation of such stimuli undergoes a
dramatic transformation as the pathway is ascended, from an implicit and
distributed peripheral code to explicitly facilitated single-neuron responses at 
the level of the inferior colliculus (IC) of two awake and passively listening
female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Many key features of the IC
responses directly parallel psychophysical measures of enhancement, including the
dependence on the width of a spectral notch surrounding the probe, the overall
level of the complex, and the duration of the preceding sound (referred to as the
conditioner). Neural detection thresholds for the probe with and without the
conditioner were also in qualitative agreement with analogous psychoacoustic
measures. Response characteristics during the conditioners were predictive of the
enhancement or suppression of the ensuing probe response: buildup responses were 
associated with enhancement, whereas adapting conditioner responses were more
likely to result in suppression. These data can be primarily explained by a
phenomenological computational model using dynamic (adapting) inhibition as a
necessary ingredient in the generation of neural enhancement.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0277-10.2010 
PMCID: PMC2882180
PMID: 20463220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

