

2006. J Neurosci. 2010 May 12;30(19):6577-87. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0277-10.2010.

Neural correlates of context-dependent perceptual enhancement in the inferior
colliculus.

Nelson PC(1), Young ED.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Hearing and Balance, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. pcnelson@jhu.edu

In certain situations, preceding auditory stimulation can actually result in
heightened sensitivity to subsequent sounds. Many of these phenomena appear to be
generated in the brain as reflections of central computations. One example is the
robust perceptual enhancement (or "pop out") of a probe signal within a broadband
sound whose onset time is delayed relative to the remainder of a mixture of
tones. Here we show that the neural representation of such stimuli undergoes a
dramatic transformation as the pathway is ascended, from an implicit and
distributed peripheral code to explicitly facilitated single-neuron responses at 
the level of the inferior colliculus (IC) of two awake and passively listening
female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Many key features of the IC
responses directly parallel psychophysical measures of enhancement, including the
dependence on the width of a spectral notch surrounding the probe, the overall
level of the complex, and the duration of the preceding sound (referred to as the
conditioner). Neural detection thresholds for the probe with and without the
conditioner were also in qualitative agreement with analogous psychoacoustic
measures. Response characteristics during the conditioners were predictive of the
enhancement or suppression of the ensuing probe response: buildup responses were 
associated with enhancement, whereas adapting conditioner responses were more
likely to result in suppression. These data can be primarily explained by a
phenomenological computational model using dynamic (adapting) inhibition as a
necessary ingredient in the generation of neural enhancement.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0277-10.2010 
PMCID: PMC2882180
PMID: 20463220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2007. Vet Pathol. 2010 Sep;47(5):969-76. doi: 10.1177/0300985810369905. Epub 2010 May
11.

Small intestinal adenocarcinoma in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Miller AD(1), Kramer JA, Lin KC, Knight H, Martinot A, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)New England Regional Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine
Hill Drive, Southborough, MA 01760, USA. Andrew_Miller@hms.harvard.edu

Small intestinal adenocarcinomas are uncommon neoplasms that are rarely reported 
in nonhuman primates. These neoplasms are also rare in humans, although they are 
thought to share a similar pathogenesis with the more common colorectal
carcinoma. Herein the authors report the clinical, histologic,
immunohistochemical, and molecular characteristics of small intestinal
adenocarcinoma in 10 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Retrospective
analysis of necropsy records revealed small intestinal carcinoma to be the most
common neoplastic cause of morbidity and mortality in aged common marmosets. The 
average age of affected animals was 6.6 years old, and there was no sex
predilection. Nine of 10 (90%) tumors arose within the proximal small intestine
near the interface with the duodenum. All cases were characterized by
disorganization, loss of polarity, and proliferation of neoplastic epithelial
cells along the crypt to midvillous interface. Two of 10 (20%) were defined as
carcinoma in situ. Eight of 10 (80%) had some degree of invasion, with lymphatic 
invasion and lymph node metastasis present in 6 of 10 (60%) animals.
Immunohistochemically, 10 of 10 (100%) expressed cytokeratin; 7 of 9 (77%)
expressed E-cadherin; and 8 of 9 (88%) expressed beta-catenin. The expression of 
E-cadherin and beta-catenin was decreased in the cell membrane and increased in
the cytoplasm. No Helicobacter-like bacteria were observed via silver stain, and 
callitrichine herpesvirus 3 was detected by polymerase chain reaction with equal 
frequency from neoplastic and nonneoplastic intestinal sections. The tumors
described in this population illustrate comparable features to human cases of
small intestine carcinoma and may serve as a potential animal model for small
intestinal carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985810369905 
PMCID: PMC2955325
PMID: 20460447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

