

2007. Vet Pathol. 2010 Sep;47(5):969-76. doi: 10.1177/0300985810369905. Epub 2010 May
11.

Small intestinal adenocarcinoma in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Miller AD(1), Kramer JA, Lin KC, Knight H, Martinot A, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)New England Regional Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine
Hill Drive, Southborough, MA 01760, USA. Andrew_Miller@hms.harvard.edu

Small intestinal adenocarcinomas are uncommon neoplasms that are rarely reported 
in nonhuman primates. These neoplasms are also rare in humans, although they are 
thought to share a similar pathogenesis with the more common colorectal
carcinoma. Herein the authors report the clinical, histologic,
immunohistochemical, and molecular characteristics of small intestinal
adenocarcinoma in 10 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Retrospective
analysis of necropsy records revealed small intestinal carcinoma to be the most
common neoplastic cause of morbidity and mortality in aged common marmosets. The 
average age of affected animals was 6.6 years old, and there was no sex
predilection. Nine of 10 (90%) tumors arose within the proximal small intestine
near the interface with the duodenum. All cases were characterized by
disorganization, loss of polarity, and proliferation of neoplastic epithelial
cells along the crypt to midvillous interface. Two of 10 (20%) were defined as
carcinoma in situ. Eight of 10 (80%) had some degree of invasion, with lymphatic 
invasion and lymph node metastasis present in 6 of 10 (60%) animals.
Immunohistochemically, 10 of 10 (100%) expressed cytokeratin; 7 of 9 (77%)
expressed E-cadherin; and 8 of 9 (88%) expressed beta-catenin. The expression of 
E-cadherin and beta-catenin was decreased in the cell membrane and increased in
the cytoplasm. No Helicobacter-like bacteria were observed via silver stain, and 
callitrichine herpesvirus 3 was detected by polymerase chain reaction with equal 
frequency from neoplastic and nonneoplastic intestinal sections. The tumors
described in this population illustrate comparable features to human cases of
small intestine carcinoma and may serve as a potential animal model for small
intestinal carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985810369905 
PMCID: PMC2955325
PMID: 20460447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2008. Cereb Cortex. 2011 Jan;21(1):178-90. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhq079. Epub 2010 May
10.

Level-tuned neurons in primary auditory cortex adapt differently to loud versus
soft sounds.

Watkins PV(1), Barbour DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St Louis, St
Louis, MO 63130, USA.

The responses of auditory neurons tuned to stimulus intensity (i.e., nonmonotonic
rate-level responders) have typically been analyzed with stimulus paradigms that 
eliminate neuronal adaptation to recent stimulus statistics. This procedure is
usually accomplished by presenting individual sounds with long silent periods
between them. Studies using such paradigms have led to hypotheses that
nonmonotonic neurons may play a role in amplitude spectrum coding or
level-invariant representations of complex spectral shapes. We have previously
proposed an alternate hypothesis that level-tuned neurons may represent
specialized coders of low sound levels because they preserve their sensitivity to
low levels even when average sound level is relatively high. Here we demonstrate 
that nonmonotonic neurons in awake marmoset primary auditory cortex accomplish
this feat by adapting their upper dynamic range to encode sounds with high mean
level, leaving the lower dynamic range available for encoding relatively rare
low-level sounds. This adaptive behavior manifests in nonmonotonic relative to
monotonic neurons as 1) a lesser amount of overall shifting of rate-level
response thresholds and (2) a nonmonotonic gain adjustment with increasing mean
stimulus level.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhq079 
PMCID: PMC3000570
PMID: 20457692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

