

2008. Cereb Cortex. 2011 Jan;21(1):178-90. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhq079. Epub 2010 May
10.

Level-tuned neurons in primary auditory cortex adapt differently to loud versus
soft sounds.

Watkins PV(1), Barbour DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St Louis, St
Louis, MO 63130, USA.

The responses of auditory neurons tuned to stimulus intensity (i.e., nonmonotonic
rate-level responders) have typically been analyzed with stimulus paradigms that 
eliminate neuronal adaptation to recent stimulus statistics. This procedure is
usually accomplished by presenting individual sounds with long silent periods
between them. Studies using such paradigms have led to hypotheses that
nonmonotonic neurons may play a role in amplitude spectrum coding or
level-invariant representations of complex spectral shapes. We have previously
proposed an alternate hypothesis that level-tuned neurons may represent
specialized coders of low sound levels because they preserve their sensitivity to
low levels even when average sound level is relatively high. Here we demonstrate 
that nonmonotonic neurons in awake marmoset primary auditory cortex accomplish
this feat by adapting their upper dynamic range to encode sounds with high mean
level, leaving the lower dynamic range available for encoding relatively rare
low-level sounds. This adaptive behavior manifests in nonmonotonic relative to
monotonic neurons as 1) a lesser amount of overall shifting of rate-level
response thresholds and (2) a nonmonotonic gain adjustment with increasing mean
stimulus level.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhq079 
PMCID: PMC3000570
PMID: 20457692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2009. Vet Clin Pathol. 2010 Mar;39(1):5-19. doi: 10.1111/j.1939-165X.2010.00217.x.

Laboratory diagnosis of malaria in nonhuman primates.

Ameri M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Wyeth Research, Chazy, NY, USA.
amerim@wyeth.com

Nonhuman primates (NHPs) are commonly used for biomedical research because of the
high level of gene homology that underlies physiologic similarity to human
beings. Malaria parasites of the genus Plasmodium cause one of the most frequent 
parasitic diseases of NHPs originating from tropical and subtropical areas and as
such represent a significant research confounder. Malaria in NHPs presents a
diagnostic challenge especially to those laboratories that see no more than a few
malaria cases per year in NHPs. The accurate and timely diagnosis of malaria
infection in NHPs facilitates the appropriate treatment of individuals infected
with the malaria parasites. Conventional microscopy based on the examination of
Giemsa-stained thick and thin blood films remains the mainstay of laboratory
diagnosis of malaria infection because of the high diagnostic sensitivity and
specificity and also the capability for Plasmodium species identification and
parasite counts. This procedure is recognized as technically difficult and
time-consuming, requiring considerable training to obtain the necessary skills.
In the past few years, efforts to replace the traditional but tedious reading of 
blood films have led to different techniques for the detection of malaria
parasites, including fluorescence microscopy, detection of intraleukocytic
hemozoin or malaria pigment using automated blood cell analyzers,
immunochromatographic rapid diagnostic tests based on malaria antigen detection, 
and PCR assays. These techniques offer new approaches for diagnosing malaria in
NHPs. This review focuses on the available laboratory diagnostic tools for
malaria in NHPs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1939-165X.2010.00217.x 
PMID: 20456124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

