

2009. Vet Clin Pathol. 2010 Mar;39(1):5-19. doi: 10.1111/j.1939-165X.2010.00217.x.

Laboratory diagnosis of malaria in nonhuman primates.

Ameri M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Wyeth Research, Chazy, NY, USA.
amerim@wyeth.com

Nonhuman primates (NHPs) are commonly used for biomedical research because of the
high level of gene homology that underlies physiologic similarity to human
beings. Malaria parasites of the genus Plasmodium cause one of the most frequent 
parasitic diseases of NHPs originating from tropical and subtropical areas and as
such represent a significant research confounder. Malaria in NHPs presents a
diagnostic challenge especially to those laboratories that see no more than a few
malaria cases per year in NHPs. The accurate and timely diagnosis of malaria
infection in NHPs facilitates the appropriate treatment of individuals infected
with the malaria parasites. Conventional microscopy based on the examination of
Giemsa-stained thick and thin blood films remains the mainstay of laboratory
diagnosis of malaria infection because of the high diagnostic sensitivity and
specificity and also the capability for Plasmodium species identification and
parasite counts. This procedure is recognized as technically difficult and
time-consuming, requiring considerable training to obtain the necessary skills.
In the past few years, efforts to replace the traditional but tedious reading of 
blood films have led to different techniques for the detection of malaria
parasites, including fluorescence microscopy, detection of intraleukocytic
hemozoin or malaria pigment using automated blood cell analyzers,
immunochromatographic rapid diagnostic tests based on malaria antigen detection, 
and PCR assays. These techniques offer new approaches for diagnosing malaria in
NHPs. This review focuses on the available laboratory diagnostic tools for
malaria in NHPs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1939-165X.2010.00217.x 
PMID: 20456124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2010. J Neurochem. 2010 Jul;114(2):499-511. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2010.06776.x. Epub
2010 Apr 28.

Calcium-permeable AMPA receptors are involved in the induction and expression of 
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

Kobylecki C(1), Cenci MA, Crossman AR, Ravenscroft P.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
christopher.kobylecki@manchester.ac.uk

Overactivity of striatal alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid
(AMPA) glutamate receptors is implicated in the pathophysiology of L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we evaluated the
behavioural and molecular effects of acute and chronic blockade of
Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors in animal models of PD and LID. The acute effects
of the Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptor antagonist
1-trimethylammonio-5-(1-adamantane-methylammoniopentane) dibromide hydrobromide
(IEM 1460) on abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA)-lesioned rat and LID in the MPTP-lesioned non-human primate were
assessed. Subsequently, the effects of chronic treatment of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats 
with vehicle, L-DOPA/benserazide (6/15 mg/kg, i.p.) + vehicle or L-DOPA + IEM
1460 (3 mg/kg, i.p.) on behavioural and molecular correlates of priming for LID
were evaluated. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat and MPTP-lesioned non-human primate,
acute treatment with IEM 1460 (1-3 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced LID without
adverse effects on motor performance. Chronic co-treatment for 21 days with IEM
1460 reduced the induction of AIMs by L-DOPA in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat without
affecting peak rotarod performance, and attenuated AIMs score by 75% following
l-DOPA challenge (p < 0.05). Chronic IEM 1460 treatment reversed L-DOPA-induced
up-regulation of pre-proenkephalin-A, and normalised pre-proenkephalin-B mRNA
expression in the lateral striatum, indicating an inhibition of both behavioural 
and molecular correlates of priming. These data suggest that Ca(2+)-permeable
AMPA receptors are critically involved in both the induction and subsequent
expression of LID, and represent a potential target for anti-dyskinetic
therapies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2010.06776.x 
PMID: 20456008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

