

2010. J Neurochem. 2010 Jul;114(2):499-511. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2010.06776.x. Epub
2010 Apr 28.

Calcium-permeable AMPA receptors are involved in the induction and expression of 
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

Kobylecki C(1), Cenci MA, Crossman AR, Ravenscroft P.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
christopher.kobylecki@manchester.ac.uk

Overactivity of striatal alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid
(AMPA) glutamate receptors is implicated in the pathophysiology of L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we evaluated the
behavioural and molecular effects of acute and chronic blockade of
Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors in animal models of PD and LID. The acute effects
of the Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptor antagonist
1-trimethylammonio-5-(1-adamantane-methylammoniopentane) dibromide hydrobromide
(IEM 1460) on abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA)-lesioned rat and LID in the MPTP-lesioned non-human primate were
assessed. Subsequently, the effects of chronic treatment of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats 
with vehicle, L-DOPA/benserazide (6/15 mg/kg, i.p.) + vehicle or L-DOPA + IEM
1460 (3 mg/kg, i.p.) on behavioural and molecular correlates of priming for LID
were evaluated. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat and MPTP-lesioned non-human primate,
acute treatment with IEM 1460 (1-3 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced LID without
adverse effects on motor performance. Chronic co-treatment for 21 days with IEM
1460 reduced the induction of AIMs by L-DOPA in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat without
affecting peak rotarod performance, and attenuated AIMs score by 75% following
l-DOPA challenge (p < 0.05). Chronic IEM 1460 treatment reversed L-DOPA-induced
up-regulation of pre-proenkephalin-A, and normalised pre-proenkephalin-B mRNA
expression in the lateral striatum, indicating an inhibition of both behavioural 
and molecular correlates of priming. These data suggest that Ca(2+)-permeable
AMPA receptors are critically involved in both the induction and subsequent
expression of LID, and represent a potential target for anti-dyskinetic
therapies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2010.06776.x 
PMID: 20456008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2011. Mikrobiol Z. 2010 Mar-Apr;72(2):36-42.

Inhibitors of Epstein-Barr virus reproduction--ribonucleosides of 3-substituted
1,2,4-triazino[5,6-b] [1,4] benzothiasines.

Golovan AJ(1), Nesterova NV, Zagorodnya SD, Alexeeva LV, Palchykovska LI, Usenko 
LS, Baranova GV.

Author information: 
(1)Zabolotny Institute of Microbiology and Virology, National Academy of Sciences
of Ukraine, 154 Acad Zabolotny St., Kyiv, MSP, D 03680, Ukraine.

Studying of antiviral effect of condensed triazine derivatives--3-oxo-
triazinobenzothiazine (the preparation No 1), its ribonucleoside (the preparation
No 3) and ribonucleoside of its 3-thio-analogue (the preparation No 2) on
reproduction of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in lymphoblastoid Raji cells is reported
in present work. The cytotoxic action of these preparations on test cells was
determined and CC50 index was 125 microg/ml for the preparation No 1, for
preparation No 2 - 625 microg/ml, and for preparation No 3 - 750 microg/ml.
Antiviral activity of the preparations was tested by inhibition level of
accumulation of viral DNA in the cell culture, and effective concentration (EC50 
index) was determined for each preparation. EC50 constituted 1 microg/ml for each
triazinobenzothiazines. Selectivity index (SI) was 125 for preparation No 1, for 
preparation No 2 - 625, and for preparation No 3 - 750. The obtained results of
studying of triazinobenzothiazines as inhibitors of EBV-infection support their
high antiEBV activity and can be interesting for further investigations.


PMID: 20455440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

