

2012. PLoS One. 2010 Apr 29;5(4):e10412. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010412.

A novel highly reproducible and lethal nonhuman primate model for orthopox virus 
infection.

Kramski M(1), MÃ¤tz-Rensing K, Stahl-Hennig C, Kaup FJ, Nitsche A, Pauli G,
Ellerbrok H.

Author information: 
(1)Robert Koch-Institut, Berlin, Germany.

The intentional re-introduction of Variola virus (VARV), the agent of smallpox,
into the human population is of great concern due its bio-terroristic potential. 
Moreover, zoonotic infections with Cowpox (CPXV) and Monkeypox virus (MPXV) cause
severe diseases in humans. Smallpox vaccines presently available can have severe 
adverse effects that are no longer acceptable. The efficacy and safety of new
vaccines and antiviral drugs for use in humans can only be demonstrated in animal
models. The existing nonhuman primate models, using VARV and MPXV, need very high
viral doses that have to be applied intravenously or intratracheally to induce a 
lethal infection in macaques. To overcome these drawbacks, the infectivity and
pathogenicity of a particular CPXV was evaluated in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).A CPXV named calpox virus was isolated from a lethal
orthopox virus (OPV) outbreak in New World monkeys. We demonstrated that
marmosets infected with calpox virus, not only via the intravenous but also the
intranasal route, reproducibly develop symptoms resembling smallpox in humans.
Infected animals died within 1-3 days after onset of symptoms, even when very low
infectious viral doses of 5x10(2) pfu were applied intranasally. Infectious virus
was demonstrated in blood, saliva and all organs analyzed.We present the first
characterization of a new OPV infection model inducing a disease in common
marmosets comparable to smallpox in humans. Intranasal virus inoculation
mimicking the natural route of smallpox infection led to reproducible infection. 
In vivo titration resulted in an MID(50) (minimal monkey infectious dose 50%) of 
8.3x10(2) pfu of calpox virus which is approximately 10,000-fold lower than MPXV 
and VARV doses applied in the macaque models. Therefore, the calpox
virus/marmoset model is a suitable nonhuman primate model for the validation of
vaccines and antiviral drugs. Furthermore, this model can help study mechanisms
of OPV pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010412 
PMCID: PMC2861679
PMID: 20454688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2013. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2010 Apr;69(4):372-85. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e3181d5d053.

Induction of progressive demyelinating autoimmune encephalomyelitis in common
marmoset monkeys using MOG34-56 peptide in incomplete freund adjuvant.

Jagessar SA(1), Kap YS, Heijmans N, van Driel N, van Straalen L, Bajramovic JJ,
Brok HP, Blezer EL, Bauer J, Laman JD, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the neotropical primate common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a relevant autoimmune animal model of multiple
sclerosis. T cells specific for peptide 34 to 56 of myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG34-56) have a central pathogenic role in this model. The aim of 
this study was to assess the requirement for innate immune stimulation for
activation of this core pathogenic autoimmune mechanism. Marmoset monkeys were
sensitized against synthetic MOG34-56 peptide alone or in combination with the
nonencephalitogenic peptide MOG74-96 formulated in incomplete Freund adjuvant,
which lacks microbial components. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
development was recorded by monitoring neurological signs, brain magnetic
resonance imaging, and longitudinal profiling of cellular and humoral immune
parameters. All monkeys developed autoimmune inflammatory/demyelinating central
nervous system disease characterized by massive brain and spinal cord
demyelinating white matter lesions with activated macrophages and CD3+ T cells.
Immune profiling ex vivo demonstrated the activation of mainly CD3+CD4+/8+CD56+ T
cells against MOG34-56. Upon ex vivo stimulation, these T cells produced more
interleukin 17A compared with TH1 cytokines (e.g. interferon-gamma) and displayed
peptide-specific cytolytic activity. These results indicate that the full
spectrum of marmoset experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis can be induced by 
sensitization against a single MOG peptide in incomplete Freund adjuvant lacking 
microbial compounds for innate immune activation and by eliciting
antigen-specific T-cell cytolytic activity.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e3181d5d053 
PMID: 20448482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

