

2013. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2010 Apr;69(4):372-85. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e3181d5d053.

Induction of progressive demyelinating autoimmune encephalomyelitis in common
marmoset monkeys using MOG34-56 peptide in incomplete freund adjuvant.

Jagessar SA(1), Kap YS, Heijmans N, van Driel N, van Straalen L, Bajramovic JJ,
Brok HP, Blezer EL, Bauer J, Laman JD, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the neotropical primate common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a relevant autoimmune animal model of multiple
sclerosis. T cells specific for peptide 34 to 56 of myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG34-56) have a central pathogenic role in this model. The aim of 
this study was to assess the requirement for innate immune stimulation for
activation of this core pathogenic autoimmune mechanism. Marmoset monkeys were
sensitized against synthetic MOG34-56 peptide alone or in combination with the
nonencephalitogenic peptide MOG74-96 formulated in incomplete Freund adjuvant,
which lacks microbial components. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
development was recorded by monitoring neurological signs, brain magnetic
resonance imaging, and longitudinal profiling of cellular and humoral immune
parameters. All monkeys developed autoimmune inflammatory/demyelinating central
nervous system disease characterized by massive brain and spinal cord
demyelinating white matter lesions with activated macrophages and CD3+ T cells.
Immune profiling ex vivo demonstrated the activation of mainly CD3+CD4+/8+CD56+ T
cells against MOG34-56. Upon ex vivo stimulation, these T cells produced more
interleukin 17A compared with TH1 cytokines (e.g. interferon-gamma) and displayed
peptide-specific cytolytic activity. These results indicate that the full
spectrum of marmoset experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis can be induced by 
sensitization against a single MOG peptide in incomplete Freund adjuvant lacking 
microbial compounds for innate immune activation and by eliciting
antigen-specific T-cell cytolytic activity.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e3181d5d053 
PMID: 20448482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2014. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2010 Aug;20(8):582-93. doi:
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2010.03.001.

An in vivo pharmacological evaluation of pardoprunox (SLV308)--a novel combined
dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor partial agonist and 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist with
efficacy in experimental models of Parkinson's disease.

Jones CA(1), Johnston LC, Jackson MJ, Smith LA, van Scharrenburg G, Rose S,
Jenner PG, McCreary AC.

Author information: 
(1)Abbott Pharmaceuticals B.V., Weesp, The Netherlands (formerly Solvay
Pharmaceuticals B.V.).

Partial D(2/3) dopamine (DA) receptor agonists provide a novel approach to the
treatment of the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) that may avoid common
dopaminergic side-effects, including dyskinesia and psychosis. The present study 
focussed on the in vivo pharmacological and therapeutic characterisation of the
novel D(2/3) receptor partial agonist and full 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist
pardoprunox (SLV308; 7-[4-methyl-1-piperazinyl]-2(3H)-benzoxazolone
monochloride). Pardoprunox induced contralateral turning behaviour in rats with
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the substantia nigra pars
compacta (SNpc) (MED=0.03mg/kg; po). In
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets,
pardoprunox dose-dependently increased locomotor activity (MED=0.03mg/kg; po) and
decreased motor disability (MED=0.03mg/kg; po). The effects of pardoprunox were
reversed by the D(2) antagonist sulpiride. In contrast pardoprunox attenuated
novelty-induced locomotor activity (MED=0.01mg/kg; po), (+)-amphetamine-induced
hyperlocomotion (MED=0.3mg/kg; po) and apomorphine-induced climbing
(MED=0.6mg/kg; po) in rodents. Pardoprunox also induced 5-HT(1A)
receptor-mediated behaviours, including flat body posture and lower lip
retraction (MED=0.3mg/kg; po) and these were reversed by the 5-HT(1A) receptor
antagonist WAY100635. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pardoprunox
possesses dopamine D2/3 partial agonist effects, 5-HT1A agonist effects and
reduces parkinsonism in animal models. functional DA D(2) receptor partial
agonist activity and is effective in experimental models predictive of efficacy
in PD. The presence of functional 5-HT(1A) agonist activity might confer
anti-dyskinetic activity and have effects that control neuropsychiatric
components of PD.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2010.03.001 
PMID: 20434890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

