

2014. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2010 Aug;20(8):582-93. doi:
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2010.03.001.

An in vivo pharmacological evaluation of pardoprunox (SLV308)--a novel combined
dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor partial agonist and 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist with
efficacy in experimental models of Parkinson's disease.

Jones CA(1), Johnston LC, Jackson MJ, Smith LA, van Scharrenburg G, Rose S,
Jenner PG, McCreary AC.

Author information: 
(1)Abbott Pharmaceuticals B.V., Weesp, The Netherlands (formerly Solvay
Pharmaceuticals B.V.).

Partial D(2/3) dopamine (DA) receptor agonists provide a novel approach to the
treatment of the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) that may avoid common
dopaminergic side-effects, including dyskinesia and psychosis. The present study 
focussed on the in vivo pharmacological and therapeutic characterisation of the
novel D(2/3) receptor partial agonist and full 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist
pardoprunox (SLV308; 7-[4-methyl-1-piperazinyl]-2(3H)-benzoxazolone
monochloride). Pardoprunox induced contralateral turning behaviour in rats with
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the substantia nigra pars
compacta (SNpc) (MED=0.03mg/kg; po). In
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets,
pardoprunox dose-dependently increased locomotor activity (MED=0.03mg/kg; po) and
decreased motor disability (MED=0.03mg/kg; po). The effects of pardoprunox were
reversed by the D(2) antagonist sulpiride. In contrast pardoprunox attenuated
novelty-induced locomotor activity (MED=0.01mg/kg; po), (+)-amphetamine-induced
hyperlocomotion (MED=0.3mg/kg; po) and apomorphine-induced climbing
(MED=0.6mg/kg; po) in rodents. Pardoprunox also induced 5-HT(1A)
receptor-mediated behaviours, including flat body posture and lower lip
retraction (MED=0.3mg/kg; po) and these were reversed by the 5-HT(1A) receptor
antagonist WAY100635. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pardoprunox
possesses dopamine D2/3 partial agonist effects, 5-HT1A agonist effects and
reduces parkinsonism in animal models. functional DA D(2) receptor partial
agonist activity and is effective in experimental models predictive of efficacy
in PD. The presence of functional 5-HT(1A) agonist activity might confer
anti-dyskinetic activity and have effects that control neuropsychiatric
components of PD.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2010.03.001 
PMID: 20434890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2015. Reproduction. 2010 Jul;140(1):93-104. doi: 10.1530/REP-10-0140. Epub 2010 Apr 20.

Identification of androgen receptor phosphorylation in the primate ovary in vivo.

McEwan IJ(1), McGuinness D, Hay CW, Millar RP, Saunders PT, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Queen's Medical Research Institute, 47
Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, Scotland, UK. iain.mcewan@abdn.ac.uk

The androgen receptor (AR) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, and
is important for both male and female reproductive health. The receptor is a
target for a number of post-translational modifications including
phosphorylation, which has been intensively studied in vitro. However, little is 
known about the phosphorylation status of the receptor in target tissues in vivo.
The common marmoset is a useful model for studying human reproductive functions, 
and comparison of the AR primary sequence from this primate shows high
conservation of serines known to be phosphorylated in the human receptor and
corresponding flanking amino acids. We have used a panel of phosphospecific
antibodies to study AR phosphorylation in the marmoset ovary throughout the
follicular phase and after treatment with GNRH antagonist or testosterone
propionate. In normal follicular phase ovaries, total AR (both phosphorylated and
non-phosphorylated forms) immunopositive staining was observed in several cell
types including granulosa cells of developing follicles, theca cells and
endothelial cells lining blood vessels. Receptor phosphorylation at serines 81,
308, and 650 was detected primarily in the granulosa cells of developing
follicles, surface epithelium, and vessel endothelial cells. Testosterone
treatment lead to a modest increase in AR staining in all stages of follicle
studied, while GNRH antagonist had no effect. Neither treatment significantly
altered the pattern of phosphorylation compared to the control group. These
results demonstrate that phosphorylation of the AR occurs, at a subset of serine 
residues, in a reproductive target tissue in vivo, which appears refractory to
hormonal manipulations.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-10-0140 
PMCID: PMC2892820
PMID: 20406952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

