

2015. Reproduction. 2010 Jul;140(1):93-104. doi: 10.1530/REP-10-0140. Epub 2010 Apr 20.

Identification of androgen receptor phosphorylation in the primate ovary in vivo.

McEwan IJ(1), McGuinness D, Hay CW, Millar RP, Saunders PT, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Queen's Medical Research Institute, 47
Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, Scotland, UK. iain.mcewan@abdn.ac.uk

The androgen receptor (AR) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, and
is important for both male and female reproductive health. The receptor is a
target for a number of post-translational modifications including
phosphorylation, which has been intensively studied in vitro. However, little is 
known about the phosphorylation status of the receptor in target tissues in vivo.
The common marmoset is a useful model for studying human reproductive functions, 
and comparison of the AR primary sequence from this primate shows high
conservation of serines known to be phosphorylated in the human receptor and
corresponding flanking amino acids. We have used a panel of phosphospecific
antibodies to study AR phosphorylation in the marmoset ovary throughout the
follicular phase and after treatment with GNRH antagonist or testosterone
propionate. In normal follicular phase ovaries, total AR (both phosphorylated and
non-phosphorylated forms) immunopositive staining was observed in several cell
types including granulosa cells of developing follicles, theca cells and
endothelial cells lining blood vessels. Receptor phosphorylation at serines 81,
308, and 650 was detected primarily in the granulosa cells of developing
follicles, surface epithelium, and vessel endothelial cells. Testosterone
treatment lead to a modest increase in AR staining in all stages of follicle
studied, while GNRH antagonist had no effect. Neither treatment significantly
altered the pattern of phosphorylation compared to the control group. These
results demonstrate that phosphorylation of the AR occurs, at a subset of serine 
residues, in a reproductive target tissue in vivo, which appears refractory to
hormonal manipulations.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-10-0140 
PMCID: PMC2892820
PMID: 20406952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2016. Immunogenetics. 2010 Jun;62(6):383-95. doi: 10.1007/s00251-010-0445-0. Epub 2010 
Apr 20.

Comprehensive analysis and characterization of the TCR alpha chain sequences in
the common marmoset.

Fujii Y(1), Matsutani T, Kitaura K, Suzuki S, Itoh T, Takasaki T, Suzuki R,
Kurane I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, 18-1 Sakuradai, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, 228-0815, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is useful as a nonhuman primate model of
human diseases. Although the marmoset model has great potential for studying
autoimmune diseases and immune responses against pathogens, little information is
available regarding the genes involved in adaptive immunity. Here, we identified 
one TCR alpha constant (TRAC), 46 TRAJ (joining), and 35 TRAV (variable) segments
from marmoset cDNA. Marmoset TRAC, TRAJ, and TRAV shared 80%, 68-100%, and 79-98%
identity with their human counterparts at the amino acid level, respectively. The
amino acid sequences were less conserved in TRAC than in TCRbeta chain constant
(TRBC). Comparative analysis of TRAV between marmosets and humans showed that the
rates of synonymous substitutions per site (d(S)) were not significantly
different between the framework regions (FRs) and complementarity determining
regions (CDRs), whereas the rates of nonsynonymous substitutions per site (d(N)) 
were significantly lower in the FRs than in CDRs. Interestingly, the d(N) values 
of the CDRs were greater for TRBV than TRAV. These results suggested that after
the divergence of Catarrhini from Platyrrhini, amino acid substitutions were
decreased in the FRs by purifying selection and occurred more frequently in
CDRbeta than in CDRalpha by positive selection, probably depending on structural 
and functional constraints. This study provides not only useful information
facilitating the investigation of adaptive immunity using the marmoset model but 
also new insight into the molecular evolution of the TCR heterodimer in primate
species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-010-0445-0 
PMID: 20405119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

