

2016. Immunogenetics. 2010 Jun;62(6):383-95. doi: 10.1007/s00251-010-0445-0. Epub 2010 
Apr 20.

Comprehensive analysis and characterization of the TCR alpha chain sequences in
the common marmoset.

Fujii Y(1), Matsutani T, Kitaura K, Suzuki S, Itoh T, Takasaki T, Suzuki R,
Kurane I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, 18-1 Sakuradai, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, 228-0815, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is useful as a nonhuman primate model of
human diseases. Although the marmoset model has great potential for studying
autoimmune diseases and immune responses against pathogens, little information is
available regarding the genes involved in adaptive immunity. Here, we identified 
one TCR alpha constant (TRAC), 46 TRAJ (joining), and 35 TRAV (variable) segments
from marmoset cDNA. Marmoset TRAC, TRAJ, and TRAV shared 80%, 68-100%, and 79-98%
identity with their human counterparts at the amino acid level, respectively. The
amino acid sequences were less conserved in TRAC than in TCRbeta chain constant
(TRBC). Comparative analysis of TRAV between marmosets and humans showed that the
rates of synonymous substitutions per site (d(S)) were not significantly
different between the framework regions (FRs) and complementarity determining
regions (CDRs), whereas the rates of nonsynonymous substitutions per site (d(N)) 
were significantly lower in the FRs than in CDRs. Interestingly, the d(N) values 
of the CDRs were greater for TRBV than TRAV. These results suggested that after
the divergence of Catarrhini from Platyrrhini, amino acid substitutions were
decreased in the FRs by purifying selection and occurred more frequently in
CDRbeta than in CDRalpha by positive selection, probably depending on structural 
and functional constraints. This study provides not only useful information
facilitating the investigation of adaptive immunity using the marmoset model but 
also new insight into the molecular evolution of the TCR heterodimer in primate
species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-010-0445-0 
PMID: 20405119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2017. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2010;81(1):31-40. doi: 10.1159/000278839. Epub 2010 Apr
13.

Four breeding females in a free-ranging group of buffy-headed marmosets
(Callithrix flaviceps).

Hilário RR(1), Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av.
Antônio Carlos, 6627, Pampulha Belo Horizonte, 31.270-901 Brazil.
renatohilario@gmail.com

The reproductive patterns recorded in a free-ranging group of Callithrix
flaviceps were unique in a number of ways, including 4 females breeding
simultaneously, a non-breeding dominant female, and a well-defined birth season. 
In addition, all observed copulations involved extragroup individuals. The more
socially dominant breeding female had more births and more surviving offspring,
on average, than subordinate females, and was implicated in at least 1
infanticide. All 4 females carried their own infants for relatively long periods 
following the births, apparently as a defence mechanism related to the risk of
infanticide. It remains unclear whether the unusual number of breeding females in
the group represents a species-specific pattern, or the result of specific local 
circumstances.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000278839 
PMID: 20389095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

