

2017. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2010;81(1):31-40. doi: 10.1159/000278839. Epub 2010 Apr
13.

Four breeding females in a free-ranging group of buffy-headed marmosets
(Callithrix flaviceps).

Hilário RR(1), Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av.
Antônio Carlos, 6627, Pampulha Belo Horizonte, 31.270-901 Brazil.
renatohilario@gmail.com

The reproductive patterns recorded in a free-ranging group of Callithrix
flaviceps were unique in a number of ways, including 4 females breeding
simultaneously, a non-breeding dominant female, and a well-defined birth season. 
In addition, all observed copulations involved extragroup individuals. The more
socially dominant breeding female had more births and more surviving offspring,
on average, than subordinate females, and was implicated in at least 1
infanticide. All 4 females carried their own infants for relatively long periods 
following the births, apparently as a defence mechanism related to the risk of
infanticide. It remains unclear whether the unusual number of breeding females in
the group represents a species-specific pattern, or the result of specific local 
circumstances.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000278839 
PMID: 20389095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2018. J Immunol. 2010 May 15;184(10):5895-902. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.0902850. Epub 2010
Apr 12.

Virus-specific cytotoxic CD4+ T cells for the treatment of EBV-related tumors.

Merlo A(1), Turrini R, Bobisse S, Zamarchi R, Alaggio R, Dolcetti R, Mautner J,
Zanovello P, Amadori A, Rosato A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology and Surgical Sciences, University of Padova, Italy.

Although adoptive immunotherapy with CD8(+) CTL is providing clinically relevant 
results against EBV-driven malignancies, the effector role of CD4(+) T cells has 
been poorly investigated. We addressed this issue in a lymphoblastoid cell
line-induced mouse model of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) by 
comparing the therapeutic efficacy of EBV-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell lines
upon adoptive transfer. CD4(+) T cells disclosed a long-lasting and stronger
proliferative potential than CD8(+) T cells, had a similar activation and
differentiation marker profile, efficiently killed their targets in a MHC class
II-restricted manner, and displayed a lytic machinery comparable to that of
cognate CD8(+) T cells. A detailed analysis of Ag specificity revealed that
CD4(+) T cells potentially target EBV early lytic cycle proteins. Nonetheless,
when assessed for the relative therapeutic impact after in vivo transfer, CD4(+) 
T cells showed a reduced activity compared with the CD8(+) CTL counterpart. This 
feature was apparently due to a strong and selective downmodulation of MHC class 
II expression on the tumor cells surface, a phenomenon that could be reverted by 
the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, thus leading to restoration of
lymphoblastoid cell line recognition and killing by CD4(+) T cells, as well as to
a more pronounced therapeutic activity. Conversely, immunohistochemical analysis 
disclosed that HLA-II expression is fully retained in human PTLD samples. Our
data indicate that EBV-specific cytotoxic CD4(+) T cells are therapeutic in mice 
bearing PTLD-like tumors, even in the absence of CD8(+) T cells. These findings
pave the way to use cultures of pure CD4(+) T cells in immunotherapeutic
approaches for EBV-related malignancies.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.0902850 
PMID: 20385879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

