

2018. J Immunol. 2010 May 15;184(10):5895-902. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.0902850. Epub 2010
Apr 12.

Virus-specific cytotoxic CD4+ T cells for the treatment of EBV-related tumors.

Merlo A(1), Turrini R, Bobisse S, Zamarchi R, Alaggio R, Dolcetti R, Mautner J,
Zanovello P, Amadori A, Rosato A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology and Surgical Sciences, University of Padova, Italy.

Although adoptive immunotherapy with CD8(+) CTL is providing clinically relevant 
results against EBV-driven malignancies, the effector role of CD4(+) T cells has 
been poorly investigated. We addressed this issue in a lymphoblastoid cell
line-induced mouse model of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) by 
comparing the therapeutic efficacy of EBV-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell lines
upon adoptive transfer. CD4(+) T cells disclosed a long-lasting and stronger
proliferative potential than CD8(+) T cells, had a similar activation and
differentiation marker profile, efficiently killed their targets in a MHC class
II-restricted manner, and displayed a lytic machinery comparable to that of
cognate CD8(+) T cells. A detailed analysis of Ag specificity revealed that
CD4(+) T cells potentially target EBV early lytic cycle proteins. Nonetheless,
when assessed for the relative therapeutic impact after in vivo transfer, CD4(+) 
T cells showed a reduced activity compared with the CD8(+) CTL counterpart. This 
feature was apparently due to a strong and selective downmodulation of MHC class 
II expression on the tumor cells surface, a phenomenon that could be reverted by 
the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, thus leading to restoration of
lymphoblastoid cell line recognition and killing by CD4(+) T cells, as well as to
a more pronounced therapeutic activity. Conversely, immunohistochemical analysis 
disclosed that HLA-II expression is fully retained in human PTLD samples. Our
data indicate that EBV-specific cytotoxic CD4(+) T cells are therapeutic in mice 
bearing PTLD-like tumors, even in the absence of CD8(+) T cells. These findings
pave the way to use cultures of pure CD4(+) T cells in immunotherapeutic
approaches for EBV-related malignancies.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.0902850 
PMID: 20385879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2019. Behav Processes. 2010 Jun;84(2):629-31. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2010.04.004. Epub
2010 Apr 10.

Bimodal temporal organization of specific vigilance behaviors in captive black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Nunes DM(1), Gon√ßalves I Jr, Emile N, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

The aerial/terrestrial scan and glance behaviors of 20 captive adult black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata), kept undisturbed in their own
familiar social environments, were assessed at 07:00, 09:00, 11:00, 13:00 and
15:00 h, as little is known on the temporal organization of their vigilance
repertoire, particularly under normal social and stress-free conditions. For each
time point, four 20-min observation sessions were held. Although general high
vigilance rates were observed, significantly more time was spent scanning the
upper part of the home-cage, particularly during the earliest and latest hours of
the day. Significantly higher terrestrial than aerial glance frequencies were
also seen, yet both remained constant throughout the day. Therefore, the observed
pattern not only varied significantly according to the specific vigilance
behavior and time of day, but also seemed associated with eco-physiological
factors, such as the search/intake of food, sleep site selection and higher risk 
of air-born threats.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2010.04.004 
PMID: 20385213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

