

2019. Behav Processes. 2010 Jun;84(2):629-31. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2010.04.004. Epub
2010 Apr 10.

Bimodal temporal organization of specific vigilance behaviors in captive black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Nunes DM(1), Gonçalves I Jr, Emile N, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

The aerial/terrestrial scan and glance behaviors of 20 captive adult black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata), kept undisturbed in their own
familiar social environments, were assessed at 07:00, 09:00, 11:00, 13:00 and
15:00 h, as little is known on the temporal organization of their vigilance
repertoire, particularly under normal social and stress-free conditions. For each
time point, four 20-min observation sessions were held. Although general high
vigilance rates were observed, significantly more time was spent scanning the
upper part of the home-cage, particularly during the earliest and latest hours of
the day. Significantly higher terrestrial than aerial glance frequencies were
also seen, yet both remained constant throughout the day. Therefore, the observed
pattern not only varied significantly according to the specific vigilance
behavior and time of day, but also seemed associated with eco-physiological
factors, such as the search/intake of food, sleep site selection and higher risk 
of air-born threats.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2010.04.004 
PMID: 20385213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2020. Vet Parasitol. 2010 Jul 15;171(1-2):123-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.02.044.
Epub 2010 Mar 4.

Helminths found in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata and Callithrixjacchus)
introduced to the region of occurrence of golden lion tamarins
(Leontopithecusrosalia) in Brazil.

dos Santos Sales I(1), Ruiz-Miranda CR, de Paula Santos C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Celular e Tecidual, Centro de Biociências e
Biotecnologia, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense, 28013-602 Campos dos
Goytacazes, RJ, Brazil.

The introduction of exotic species can increase the risk of extinction of native 
species through the introduction of new diseases, predation or resource
competition. The marmosets Callithrix penicillata and Callithrix jacchus and
hybrids of these two species have been introduced to privately owned forests in
the lowland Atlantic forest of the Rio de Janeiro State in Brazil, the region of 
occurrence of the endangered golden lion tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia. Because
the ecology and biology of the marmosets and tamarins is similar, there is a
reasonable risk that the marmosets would transmit pathogens such as endo
parasites. The objective of this study was to identify the helminth fauna present
in the introduced marmosets through an analysis of fecal samples of wild caught
animals, and to evaluate the parasitological profile according to age, sex and
geographical location. Eggs belonging to the Acanthocephala and Nematoda were
found in the feces. One nematode egg type was identified as being Primasubulura
jacchi. The ocurrence of nematodes was higher in males, acanthocephala were found
in all age groups and sexes and P. jacchi was found with higher frequency in
adult females. The geographic distribution analysis revealed that some of the
forests had a higher predominance of parasites. Little is known about the
pathology of parasites in free living Neotropical mammals, and this knowledge
would be necessary to infer about the risk (form a parasitological standpoint)
that the marmoset presence represents for the survival of the endangered golden
lion tamarin.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.02.044 
PMID: 20378249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

