

202. Front Neural Circuits. 2020 Dec 21;14:612595. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2020.612595.
eCollection 2020.

Dynamic Interhemispheric Desynchronization in Marmosets and Humans With Disorders
of the Corpus Callosum.

Szczupak D(1)(2), Yen CC(2), Liu C(1)(2)(3), Tian X(1)(2), Lent R(4)(5),
Tovar-Moll F(4)(5), Silva AC(1)(2); IRC5 Consortium.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University Pittsburgh Brain Institute, University 
of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, United States.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, CAS Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(4)Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Instituto D'Or de Pesquisa e Ensino, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The corpus callosum, the principal structural avenue for interhemispheric
neuronal communication, controls the brain's lateralization. Developmental
malformations of the corpus callosum (CCD) can lead to learning and intellectual 
disabilities. Currently, there is no clear explanation for these symptoms. Here, 
we used resting-state functional MRI (rsfMRI) to evaluate the dynamic
resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) in both the cingulate cortex (CG)
and the sensory areas (S1, S2, A1) in three marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with
spontaneous CCD. We also performed rsfMRI in 10 CCD human subjects (six
hypoplasic and four agenesic). We observed no differences in the strength of rsFC
between homotopic CG and sensory areas in both species when comparing them to
healthy controls. However, in CCD marmosets, we found lower strength of
quasi-periodic patterns (QPP) correlation in the posterior interhemispheric
sensory areas. We also found a significant lag of interhemispheric communication 
in the medial CG, suggesting asynchrony between the two hemispheres.
Correspondingly, in human subjects, we found that the CG of acallosal subjects
had a higher QPP correlation than controls. In comparison, hypoplasic subjects
had a lower QPP correlation and a delay of 1.6 s in the sensory regions. These
results show that CCD affects the interhemispheric synchrony of both CG and
sensory areas and that, in both species, its impact on cortical communication
varies along the CC development gradient. Our study shines a light on how CCD
misconnects homotopic regions and opens a line of research to explain the causes 
of the symptoms exhibited by CCD patients and how to mitigate them.

Copyright © 2020 Szczupak, Yen, Liu, Tian, Lent, Tovar-Moll and Silva.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2020.612595 
PMCID: PMC7779638
PMID: 33408615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


203. Anim Cogn. 2021 May;24(3):629-643. doi: 10.1007/s10071-020-01465-1. Epub 2021 Jan
4.

Navigating in a challenging semiarid environment: the use of a route-based mental
map by a small-bodied neotropical primate.

Abreu F(1), Garber PA(2), Souto A(3), Presotto A(4), Schiel N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Dois Irmãos, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil.
filipaabreu88@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Anthropology, Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation
Biology, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, 61801, USA.
(3)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Av. Professor Moraes 
Rego, 1235, Recife, PE, 50670-901, Brazil.
(4)Department of Geography and Geosciences, Salisbury University, Salisbury, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Dois Irmãos, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil.

To increase efficiency in the search for resources, many animals rely on their
spatial abilities. Specifically, primates have been reported to use mostly
topological and rarely Euclidean maps when navigating in large-scale space. Here,
we aimed to investigate if the navigation of wild common marmosets inhabiting a
semiarid environment is consistent with a topological representation and how
environmental factors affect navigation. We collected 497 h of direct behavioral 
and GPS information on a group of marmosets using a 2-min instantaneous focal
animal sampling technique. We found that our study group reused not only
long-route segments (mean of 1007 m) but entire daily routes, a pattern that is
not commonly seen in primates. The most frequently reused route segments were the
ones closer to feeding sites, distant to resting sites, and in areas sparse in
tree vegetation. We also identified a total of 56 clustered direction change
points indicating that the group modified their direction of travel. These
changes in direction were influenced by their close proximity to resting and
feeding sites. Despite our small sample size, the obtained results are important 
and consistent with the contention that common marmosets navigate using a
topological map that seems to benefit these animals in response to the
exploitation of clustered exudate trees. Based on our findings, we hypothesize
that the Caatinga landscape imposes physical restrictions in our group's
navigation such as gaps in vegetation, small trees and xerophytic plants. This
study, based on preliminary evidence, raises the question of whether navigation
patterns are an intrinsic characteristic of a species or are ecologically
dependent and change according to the environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-020-01465-1 
PMID: 33394185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

