

2020. Vet Parasitol. 2010 Jul 15;171(1-2):123-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.02.044.
Epub 2010 Mar 4.

Helminths found in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata and Callithrixjacchus)
introduced to the region of occurrence of golden lion tamarins
(Leontopithecusrosalia) in Brazil.

dos Santos Sales I(1), Ruiz-Miranda CR, de Paula Santos C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Celular e Tecidual, Centro de Biociências e
Biotecnologia, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense, 28013-602 Campos dos
Goytacazes, RJ, Brazil.

The introduction of exotic species can increase the risk of extinction of native 
species through the introduction of new diseases, predation or resource
competition. The marmosets Callithrix penicillata and Callithrix jacchus and
hybrids of these two species have been introduced to privately owned forests in
the lowland Atlantic forest of the Rio de Janeiro State in Brazil, the region of 
occurrence of the endangered golden lion tamarin, Leontopithecus rosalia. Because
the ecology and biology of the marmosets and tamarins is similar, there is a
reasonable risk that the marmosets would transmit pathogens such as endo
parasites. The objective of this study was to identify the helminth fauna present
in the introduced marmosets through an analysis of fecal samples of wild caught
animals, and to evaluate the parasitological profile according to age, sex and
geographical location. Eggs belonging to the Acanthocephala and Nematoda were
found in the feces. One nematode egg type was identified as being Primasubulura
jacchi. The ocurrence of nematodes was higher in males, acanthocephala were found
in all age groups and sexes and P. jacchi was found with higher frequency in
adult females. The geographic distribution analysis revealed that some of the
forests had a higher predominance of parasites. Little is known about the
pathology of parasites in free living Neotropical mammals, and this knowledge
would be necessary to infer about the risk (form a parasitological standpoint)
that the marmoset presence represents for the survival of the endangered golden
lion tamarin.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2010.02.044 
PMID: 20378249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2021. Eur J Neurosci. 2010 Mar;31(6):1043-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2010.07118.x.
Epub 2010 Mar 3.

Spatial and temporal frequency tuning in striate cortex: functional uniformity
and specializations related to receptive field eccentricity.

Yu HH(1), Verma R, Yang Y, Tibballs HA, Lui LL, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton VIC 3800, Australia.
Hsin-Hao.Yu@med.monash.edu.au

In light of anatomical evidence suggesting differential connection patterns in
central vs. peripheral representations of cortical areas, we investigated the
extent to which the response properties of cells in the primary visual area (V1) 
of the marmoset change as a function of eccentricity. Responses to combinations
of the spatial and temporal frequencies of visual stimuli were quantified for
neurons with receptive fields ranging from 3 degrees to 70 degrees eccentricity. 
Optimal spatial frequencies and stimulus speeds reflected the expectation that
the responses of cells throughout V1 are essentially uniform, once scaled
according to the cortical magnification factor. In addition, temporal frequency
tuning was similar throughout V1. However, spatial frequency tuning curves
depended both on the cell's optimal spatial frequency and on the receptive field 
eccentricity: cells with peripheral receptive fields showed narrower bandwidths
than cells with central receptive fields that were sensitive to the same optimal 
spatial frequency. Although most V1 cells had separable spatial and temporal
frequency tuning, the proportion of neurons displaying significant spatiotemporal
interactions increased in the representation of far peripheral vision (> 50
degrees). In addition, of the fewer than 5% of V1 cells that showed robust
(spatial frequency independent) selectivity to stimulus speed, most were
concentrated in the representation of the far periphery. Spatiotemporal
interactions in the responses of many cells in the peripheral representation of
V1 reduced the ambiguity of responses to high-speed (> 30 degrees/s) signals.
These results support the notion of a relative specialization for motion
processing in the far peripheral representations of cortical areas, including V1.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2010.07118.x 
PMID: 20377618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

