

2022. Behav Neurosci. 2010 Apr;124(2):192-203. doi: 10.1037/a0018868.

Autonomic, behavioral, and neural analyses of mild conditioned negative affect in
marmosets.

Mikheenko Y(1), Man MS, Braesicke K, Johns ME, Hill G, Agustín-Pavón C, Roberts
AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Avoidance and alerting behaviors and accompanying physiological responses,
including changes in heart rate (HR), are core components of negative emotion.
Investigations into the neural mechanisms underlying the regulation and
integration of these responses require animal models that simultaneously measure 
both the physiological and behavioral components of emotion. A primate model is
of particular importance in view of the well developed prefrontal cortex of
primates, and this region's critical role in emotion regulation and the etiology 
of affective disorders. Therefore, we have developed a simple aversive
conditioning paradigm to assess, simultaneously, cardiovascular and behavioral
responses in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Validation of the paradigm was
achieved by (1) comparing conditioned responses to a predictive cue with
pseudoconditioned responses to a nonpredictive cue; (2) assessing the acquisition
of conditioning following lesions of the amygdala, a region essential for
associative learning in humans and rats; and (3) determining the contributions of
the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system to the conditioned autonomic
responses. Marmosets acquired conditioned HR and behavioral responses in the
conditioned, but not the pseudoconditioned or amygdala lesioned groups.
Conditioned HR accelerations were reduced by both parasympathetic and sympathetic
blockade. Thus, a model of associative learning of mild negative emotion in the
marmoset has been validated by psychological, neurological, and pharmacological
investigation. Future studies will determine the role of the prefrontal cortex in
the regulation of these negative emotional responses, to provide insights into
the neuropathology of affective disorders.

DOI: 10.1037/a0018868 
PMID: 20364879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2023. Stem Cell Res. 2010 May;4(3):180-8. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2010.02.003. Epub 2010 Mar
6.

Generation of induced pluripotent stem cells from newborn marmoset skin
fibroblasts.

Wu Y(1), Zhang Y, Mishra A, Tardif SD, Hornsby PJ.

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, Shaanxi
712100, China. WuY4@uthscsa.edu

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) hold great promise for regenerative
medicine. For the application of iPSCs to forms of autologous cell therapy,
suitable animal models are required. Among species that could potentially be used
for this purpose, nonhuman primates are particularly important, and among these
the marmoset offers significant advantages. In order to demonstrate the
feasibility of the application of iPSC technology to this species, here we
derived lines of marmoset iPSCs. Using retroviral transduction with human Oct4,
Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc, we derived clones that fulfil critical criteria for
successful reprogramming: they exhibit typical iPSC morphology; they are alkaline
phosphatase positive; they express high levels of NANOG, OCT4 and SOX2 mRNAs,
while the corresponding vector genes are silenced; they are immunoreactive for
Oct4, TRA-1-81 and SSEA-4; and when implanted into immunodeficient mice they
produce teratomas that have derivatives of all three germ layers (endoderm,
alpha-fetoprotein; ectoderm, betaIII-tubulin; mesoderm, smooth muscle actin).
Starting with a population of 4 x 10(5) newborn marmoset skin fibroblasts, we
obtained approximately 100 colonies with iPSC-like morphology. Of these, 30 were 
expanded sufficiently to be cryopreserved, and, of those, 8 were characterized in
more detail. These experiments provide proof of principle that iPSC technology
can be adapted for use in the marmoset, as a future model of autologous cell
therapy.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2010.02.003 
PMCID: PMC2875323
PMID: 20363201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

