

2023. Stem Cell Res. 2010 May;4(3):180-8. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2010.02.003. Epub 2010 Mar
6.

Generation of induced pluripotent stem cells from newborn marmoset skin
fibroblasts.

Wu Y(1), Zhang Y, Mishra A, Tardif SD, Hornsby PJ.

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, Shaanxi
712100, China. WuY4@uthscsa.edu

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) hold great promise for regenerative
medicine. For the application of iPSCs to forms of autologous cell therapy,
suitable animal models are required. Among species that could potentially be used
for this purpose, nonhuman primates are particularly important, and among these
the marmoset offers significant advantages. In order to demonstrate the
feasibility of the application of iPSC technology to this species, here we
derived lines of marmoset iPSCs. Using retroviral transduction with human Oct4,
Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc, we derived clones that fulfil critical criteria for
successful reprogramming: they exhibit typical iPSC morphology; they are alkaline
phosphatase positive; they express high levels of NANOG, OCT4 and SOX2 mRNAs,
while the corresponding vector genes are silenced; they are immunoreactive for
Oct4, TRA-1-81 and SSEA-4; and when implanted into immunodeficient mice they
produce teratomas that have derivatives of all three germ layers (endoderm,
alpha-fetoprotein; ectoderm, betaIII-tubulin; mesoderm, smooth muscle actin).
Starting with a population of 4 x 10(5) newborn marmoset skin fibroblasts, we
obtained approximately 100 colonies with iPSC-like morphology. Of these, 30 were 
expanded sufficiently to be cryopreserved, and, of those, 8 were characterized in
more detail. These experiments provide proof of principle that iPSC technology
can be adapted for use in the marmoset, as a future model of autologous cell
therapy.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2010.02.003 
PMCID: PMC2875323
PMID: 20363201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2024. Curr Drug Metab. 2010 Feb;11(2):142-52.

Macaque CYP2C76 encodes cytochrome P450 enzyme not orthologous to any human
isozymes.

Uno Y(1), Fujino H, Iwasaki K, Utoh M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacokinetics and Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, 
Ltd., Kainan, Japan. uno-yasuhiro@snbl.co.jp

Cynomolgus monkey is used in the study of drug metabolism and toxicity due to its
evolutionary closeness to human as compared with other non-human primate species.
However, it has become certain that drug metabolism in monkeys is different than 
in humans. Such species differences have not been fully investigated at a
molecular level largely due to the scarcity of information on drug-metabolizing
enzyme genes. In cynomolgus monkey, we have identified cDNAs for 21 kinds of
cytochromes P450 (CYPs), among which CYP2C76 does not correspond to any human CYP
isozymes and is partly responsible for the difference in pitavastatin metabolism 
between cynomolgus monkey and human. In cynomolgus monkey CYP2C76, we identified 
numerous genetic variants including a null genotype. Heterozygotes for this null 
genotype are expected to be poor metabolizers in CYP2C76-mediated drug
metabolism. To provide new clues to CYP2C76 function, here, we have taken
advantage of sequence information that has been recently deposited to public
databases to assess the presence of CYP2C76 orthologs in primate species. In this
assessment, we found the CYP2C76 cDNA sequence in rhesus monkey, and a gene
sequence highly homologous to cynomolgus monkey CYP2C76 in the marmoset and
orangutan genomes, raising the possibility that CYP2C76 could also play a role in
these primate species. This review paper gives an overview of CYP2C76 from
isolation to molecular characterization, and its implication in drug metabolism.

DOI: 10.2174/138920010791110854 
PMID: 20359284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

