

2025. Synapse. 2010 Aug;64(8):594-601. doi: 10.1002/syn.20766.

Mapping of serotonin transporters by positron emission tomography with [11C]DASB 
in conscious common marmosets: comparison with rhesus monkeys.

Yokoyama C(1), Yamanaka H, Onoe K, Kawasaki A, Nagata H, Shirakami K, Doi H, Onoe
H.

Author information: 
(1)Functional Probe Research Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Molecular Imaging
Science 6-7-3 Minatojima Minamimachi, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is unique among the primates in its
small body size, reproductive efficacy, and characteristic social behavior,
making it useful as an animal model in neuroscientific research. To assess the
brain serotonergic systems, we investigated the binding of
[(11)C]-3-amino-4-(2-dimetylaminomethyl-phenylsulfanyl)-benzonitrile
([(11)C]DASB) to brain serotonin transporter (SERT) in conscious common marmosets
using positron emission tomography (PET), and compared with findings for rhesus
monkeys. Both species showed globally similar distribution patterns of
[(11)C]DASB uptake in the brain, with highest activity in the midline of the
brain and lowest in the cerebellum, and higher activity in some subcortical
regions than in surrounding cortex, while the common marmoset brain showed almost
equal or rather higher binding potential (BP) values (BP(ND)) in cortical regions
and hippocampus, and lower BP(ND) than the rhesus monkey brain in some
subcortical regions. Test-retest reproducibility of BP(ND) at an interval of
several months was high, indicating reliable and stable measurements of serotonin
transporters in both species. These results suggest that SERT imaging by PET with
[(11)C]DASB under conscious state is valuable for investigating the physiological
serotonergic functions in common marmosets (182).

DOI: 10.1002/syn.20766 
PMID: 20340166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2026. Primates. 2010 Oct;51(4):315-25. doi: 10.1007/s10329-010-0196-4. Epub 2010 Mar
26.

Maternal care and infant development in Callimico goeldii and Callithrix jacchus.

Ross AC(1), Porter LM, Power ML, Sodaro V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
abigail.ross@utoronto.ca

Callimico goeldii gives birth to single offspring, whereas other callitrichids,
including Callithrix jacchus, twin. This study compares maternal effort and
infant development in C. goeldii and C. jacchus; it is the first study to look at
nursing frequency. Infants were observed from birth for 7 weeks in two captive
groups each of C. goeldii and C. jacchus. C. goeldii mothers physiologically
invested the same or less than C. jacchus mothers. C. goeldii mothers gained the 
same amount of weight during pregnancy in absolute terms as did the smaller C.
jacchus. This results in a smaller gain in proportion to maternal weight but an
equivalent proportional gain on a per fetus basis. C. goeldii mothers nursed
their infants less based on duration of nursing bouts compared with C. jacchus
mothers. C. goeldii mothers transported their infants exclusively through the
first 2 weeks of life, which is longer than C. jacchus mothers, who exclusively
transported infants only during the first week of life. As maternal infant
carriage declined, other group members transported offspring in both species. C. 
goeldii infants engaged in independent locomotive sequences later in development 
and tasted solid foods less frequently than C. jacchus infants when compared at
equivalent ages. A single, opportunistic milk sample obtained from a C. goeldii
mother when her infant was 48 days old indicates that C. goeldii milk contains
gross energy from crude protein within the range of variation observed in
Callithrix milk. Despite the similarities in milk quality and prenatal effort in 
individual fetuses, C. goeldii infants gain weight faster from 0 to 18 months
than do C. jacchus infants. A reduction in litter size allows C. goeldii mothers 
to spend more time carrying their infant and to delay weaning, thereby allowing
accelerated infant and juvenile growth rates compared with C. jacchus.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-010-0196-4 
PMID: 20339900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

