

2030. Am J Primatol. 2010 Aug;72(8):681-8. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20824.

Time course of vocal modulation during isolation in common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Yamaguchi C(1), Izumi A, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Models for Human Disease, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Japan.

Common marmosets vocalize phee calls as isolation calls, which seem to facilitate
their reunion with family groups. To identify multiple acoustic properties with
different time courses, we examined acoustic modulations of phees during
different social contexts of isolation. Subject marmosets were totally isolated
in one condition, were visually isolated and could exchange vocalizations in
another condition, and were visually isolated and subsequently totally isolated
in a third condition. We recorded 6,035 phees of 10 male-female marmoset pairs
and conducted acoustic analysis. The marmosets frequently vocalized phees that
were temporally elongated and louder during isolation, with varying time courses 
of these changes in acoustic parameters. The vocal rates and sound levels of the 
phees increased as soon as the marmosets saw their pair mates being taken away,
and then gradually calmed down. The phee duration was longer in conditions during
which there were no vocal responses from their pair mates. Louder vocalizations
are conspicuous and seem to be effective for long-distance transmission, whereas 
shorter call duration during vocal exchanges might avoid possible vocal overlap
between mates.

2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20824 
PMID: 20301139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2031. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2010 Dec;33(6):e81-8. doi:
10.1016/j.cimid.2010.02.006. Epub 2010 Mar 17.

Evaluation of a recombinant measles virus expressing hepatitis C virus envelope
proteins by infection of human PBL-NOD/Scid/Jak3null mouse.

Satoh M(1), Saito M, Tanaka K, Iwanaga S, Ali SN, Seki T, Okada S, Kohara M,
Harada S, Kai C, Tsukiyama-Kohara K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Phylaxiology, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kumamoto
University, 1-1-1 Honjo, Kumamoto-city, Kumamoto 860-8556, Japan.

In this study, we infected NOD/Scid/Jak3null mice engrafted human peripheral
blood leukocytes (hu-PBL-NOJ) with measles virus Edmonston B strain (MV-Edm)
expressing hepatitis C virus (HCV) envelope proteins (rMV-E1E2) to evaluate the
immunogenicity as a vaccine candidate. Although human leukocytes could be
isolated from the spleen of mock-infected mice during the 2-weeks experiment, the
proportion of engrafted human leukocytes in mice infected with MV
(10(3)-10(5)pfu) or rMV-E1E2 (10(4)pfu) was decreased. Viral infection of the
splenocytes was confirmed by the development of cytopathic effects (CPEs) in
co-cultures of splenocytes and B95a cells and verified using RT-PCR. Finally,
human antibodies against MV were more frequently observed than E2-specific
antibodies in serum from mice infected with a low dose of virus (MV,
10(0)-10(1)pfu, and rMV-E1E2, 10(1)-10(2)pfu). These results showed the
possibility of hu-PBL-NOJ mice for the evaluation of the immunogenicity of viral 
proteins.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2010.02.006 
PMCID: PMC7112578
PMID: 20299097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

