

2031. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2010 Dec;33(6):e81-8. doi:
10.1016/j.cimid.2010.02.006. Epub 2010 Mar 17.

Evaluation of a recombinant measles virus expressing hepatitis C virus envelope
proteins by infection of human PBL-NOD/Scid/Jak3null mouse.

Satoh M(1), Saito M, Tanaka K, Iwanaga S, Ali SN, Seki T, Okada S, Kohara M,
Harada S, Kai C, Tsukiyama-Kohara K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Phylaxiology, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kumamoto
University, 1-1-1 Honjo, Kumamoto-city, Kumamoto 860-8556, Japan.

In this study, we infected NOD/Scid/Jak3null mice engrafted human peripheral
blood leukocytes (hu-PBL-NOJ) with measles virus Edmonston B strain (MV-Edm)
expressing hepatitis C virus (HCV) envelope proteins (rMV-E1E2) to evaluate the
immunogenicity as a vaccine candidate. Although human leukocytes could be
isolated from the spleen of mock-infected mice during the 2-weeks experiment, the
proportion of engrafted human leukocytes in mice infected with MV
(10(3)-10(5)pfu) or rMV-E1E2 (10(4)pfu) was decreased. Viral infection of the
splenocytes was confirmed by the development of cytopathic effects (CPEs) in
co-cultures of splenocytes and B95a cells and verified using RT-PCR. Finally,
human antibodies against MV were more frequently observed than E2-specific
antibodies in serum from mice infected with a low dose of virus (MV,
10(0)-10(1)pfu, and rMV-E1E2, 10(1)-10(2)pfu). These results showed the
possibility of hu-PBL-NOJ mice for the evaluation of the immunogenicity of viral 
proteins.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2010.02.006 
PMCID: PMC7112578
PMID: 20299097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2032. J Med Primatol. 2010 Jun;39(3):166-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2010.00408.x. Epub
2010 Mar 4.

Congenital digital aplasia in a free-ranging group of silvery marmosets, Mico
argentatus.

Ferrari SF(1), Coutinho PE, Corrêa HK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Universidade Federal de Sergipe, São Cristóvão-SE,
Brazil. ferrari@pitheciineactiongroup.org

Congenital aplasia of the hallux (big toe) was observed in seven adult and infant
members of a free-ranging group of silvery marmosets (Mico argentatus) in the
Alter do Chão savannah of central Amazonia. Apparently heritable, the condition
was more common in males (80%) than females (50%) but was found in no other
members of the population. Animals with the condition presented normal behaviour.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2010.00408.x 
PMID: 20236218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

