

2037. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2010 Jul;142(3):468-75. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.21259.

Mycophagy and its influence on habitat use and ranging patterns in Callimico
goeldii.

Porter LM(1), Garber PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL 60155,
USA. lmporter@niu.edu

Mycophagy has been documented in a number of species of marmosets and lion
tamarins (Callitrichinae) but its effect on ranging behavior is not known. We
present the results of 10 years of research on five groups of Goeldi's monkey
(Callimico goeldii) at a field site in northwestern Bolivia. We studied the diet 
and ranging behavior of two of the groups. On average, groups contained 4.5
individuals (range 2.0-9.0), but they gradually decreased in size until only the 
breeding female remained in the home range. The annual diet was composed of fungi
(31.1-34.9%), fruits (34.0-40.6%), prey (17.4-30.1%), and exudates (1.0-10.9%).
They had large home ranges (114-150 ha) and over time individuals tended to shift
their core areas of use. They used secondary and bamboo forest and forest with
dense understories more than expected based on availability. We suggest that the 
large home ranges and shifting core areas used by C. goeldii are components of a 
foraging strategy to track patchy, low density, and ephemeral fungal fruiting
bodies. Our results, along with data published on other callitrichines, indicate 
that groups of Leontopithecus, Callithrix, and Callimico that eat fungi have
larger home ranges than those that do not. Mycophagy is one of the several
factors that evidently affect home range size in callitrichines. Fungi are
clearly an important food source for a number of populations, but additional
studies are needed to determine why some eat fungi frequently while others do
not.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.21259 
PMID: 20209492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2038. Mult Scler. 2010 May;16(5):537-48. doi: 10.1177/1352458509360362. Epub 2010 Mar
1.

Focal and diffuse cortical degenerative changes in a marmoset model of multiple
sclerosis.

Pomeroy IM(1), Jordan EK, Frank JA, Matthews PM, Esiri MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
ian.pomeroy@nhs.net

BACKGROUND: Degenerative features, such as neuronal, glial, synaptic and axonal
loss, have been identified in neocortical and other grey matter structures in
patients with multiple sclerosis, but mechanisms for neurodegeneration are
unclear. Cortical demyelinating lesions are a potential cause of this
degeneration, but the pathological and clinical significance of these lesions is 
uncertain as they remain difficult to identify and study in vivo. In this study
we aimed to describe and quantify cellular and subcellular pathology in the
cortex of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced marmoset experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis using quantitative immunohistochemical methods.
RESULTS: We found evidence of diffuse axonal damage occurring throughout cortical
grey matter with evidence for synaptic loss and gliosis and a 13.6% decrease in
neuronal size and occurring in deep cortical layers. Evidence of additional
axonal damage and a 29.6-36.5% loss of oligodendrocytes was found in demyelinated
cortical lesions. Leucocortical lesions also showed neuronal loss of 22.2% and a 
15.8% increase in oligodendrocyte size.
CONCLUSIONS: The marmoset experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model,
therefore, shows both focal and generalized neurodegeneration. The generalized
changes cannot be directly related to focal lesions, suggesting that they are
either a consequence of diffusible inflammatory factors or secondary to remote
lesions acting through trans-synaptic or retrograde degeneration.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458509360362 
PMCID: PMC2874633
PMID: 20194580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

