

2039. Neuroreport. 2010 Mar 31;21(5):328-32. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e3283360ba8.

Neurofeedback training on sensorimotor rhythm in marmoset monkeys.

Philippens IH(1), Vanwersch RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. philippens@bprc.nl

Neurofeedback research in a model closely related to humans is recommended to
rule out placebo effects and unspecific factors bridging the gap between
nonvalidated empirical and standardized controlled research. In this article,
telemetric sensorimotor rhythm (SMR; 11-14 Hz) feedback training in the marmoset 
monkey is applied to examine the monkey's capability to voluntary control their
brain activity. Four monkeys, provided with two epidural bioelectric electrodes
above the sensorimotor cortex, were trained with positive reinforcement on SMR
measured by online analyses of 1.28 s electroencephalogram epochs in 30-min
sessions. These monkeys learned within five sessions to increase their alpha
activity. The first evidence of nonhuman primates having an operant control over 
the SMR is provided, an initial step for a much-needed scientific basis to
neurofeedback.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e3283360ba8 
PMID: 20186109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2040. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2009;12(3):214-22. doi: 10.1080/10888700902955963.

Severe intragroup aggressions in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

De Filippis B(1), Chiarotti F, Vitale A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, Istituto Superiore di Sanita,
Rome, Italy.

Members of captive colonies of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small New
World primate, can occasionally be victims of repeated, and potentially fatal,
attacks by a family-mate. This study examined the records of a colony, looking
for past instances of such aggressions. The aim was to better understand the
possible causes underlying this phenomenon and to identify variables that could
minimize their occurrence. The results showed that both males and females behaved
as aggressors at the same rate, but females attacked just females, whereas males 
attacked both males and females. Most aggressions involved siblings and occurred 
at a higher rate when the cages were occupied by more than 5 nonhuman animals.
The influence of group size was significant only when females behaved as
aggressors. This study suggests that several factors can determine the occurrence
of these aggressions and that their relative importance depends on the sex of the
aggressor. The results of this study highlight the importance of collecting
further data to verify whether crowding in a confined space, rather than group
size per se, affects the incidence of these aggressions.

DOI: 10.1080/10888700902955963 
PMID: 20183475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

