

2040. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2009;12(3):214-22. doi: 10.1080/10888700902955963.

Severe intragroup aggressions in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

De Filippis B(1), Chiarotti F, Vitale A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, Istituto Superiore di Sanita,
Rome, Italy.

Members of captive colonies of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small New
World primate, can occasionally be victims of repeated, and potentially fatal,
attacks by a family-mate. This study examined the records of a colony, looking
for past instances of such aggressions. The aim was to better understand the
possible causes underlying this phenomenon and to identify variables that could
minimize their occurrence. The results showed that both males and females behaved
as aggressors at the same rate, but females attacked just females, whereas males 
attacked both males and females. Most aggressions involved siblings and occurred 
at a higher rate when the cages were occupied by more than 5 nonhuman animals.
The influence of group size was significant only when females behaved as
aggressors. This study suggests that several factors can determine the occurrence
of these aggressions and that their relative importance depends on the sex of the
aggressor. The results of this study highlight the importance of collecting
further data to verify whether crowding in a confined space, rather than group
size per se, affects the incidence of these aggressions.

DOI: 10.1080/10888700902955963 
PMID: 20183475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2041. Front Neuroanat. 2010 Feb 12;4:8. doi: 10.3389/neuro.05.008.2010. eCollection
2010.

Retinal afferents synapse with relay cells targeting the middle temporal area in 
the pulvinar and lateral geniculate nuclei.

Warner CE(1), Goldshmit Y, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Bourne Group, Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University
Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Considerable debate continues regarding thalamic inputs to the middle temporal
area (MT) of the visual cortex that bypass the primary visual cortex (V1) and the
role they might have in the residual visual capability following a lesion of V1. 
Two specific retinothalamic projections to area MT have been speculated to relay 
through the medial portion of the inferior pulvinar nucleus (PIm) and the
koniocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). Although a
number of studies have demonstrated retinal inputs to regions of the thalamus
where relays to area MT have been observed, the relationship between the retinal 
terminals and area MT relay cells has not been established. Here we examined
direct retino-recipient regions of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
pulvinar nucleus and the LGN following binocular injections of anterograde
tracer, as well as area MT relay cells in these nuclei by injection of retrograde
tracer into area MT. Retinal afferents were shown to synapse with area MT relay
cells as demonstrated by colocalization with the presynaptic vesicle membrane
protein synaptophysin. We also established the presence of direct synapes of
retinal afferents on area MT relay cells within the PIm, as well as the
koniocellular K1 and K3 layers of the LGN, thereby corroborating the existence of
two disynaptic pathways from the retina to area MT that bypass V1.

DOI: 10.3389/neuro.05.008.2010 
PMCID: PMC2826187
PMID: 20179789 

