

2041. Front Neuroanat. 2010 Feb 12;4:8. doi: 10.3389/neuro.05.008.2010. eCollection
2010.

Retinal afferents synapse with relay cells targeting the middle temporal area in 
the pulvinar and lateral geniculate nuclei.

Warner CE(1), Goldshmit Y, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Bourne Group, Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University
Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Considerable debate continues regarding thalamic inputs to the middle temporal
area (MT) of the visual cortex that bypass the primary visual cortex (V1) and the
role they might have in the residual visual capability following a lesion of V1. 
Two specific retinothalamic projections to area MT have been speculated to relay 
through the medial portion of the inferior pulvinar nucleus (PIm) and the
koniocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). Although a
number of studies have demonstrated retinal inputs to regions of the thalamus
where relays to area MT have been observed, the relationship between the retinal 
terminals and area MT relay cells has not been established. Here we examined
direct retino-recipient regions of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
pulvinar nucleus and the LGN following binocular injections of anterograde
tracer, as well as area MT relay cells in these nuclei by injection of retrograde
tracer into area MT. Retinal afferents were shown to synapse with area MT relay
cells as demonstrated by colocalization with the presynaptic vesicle membrane
protein synaptophysin. We also established the presence of direct synapes of
retinal afferents on area MT relay cells within the PIm, as well as the
koniocellular K1 and K3 layers of the LGN, thereby corroborating the existence of
two disynaptic pathways from the retina to area MT that bypass V1.

DOI: 10.3389/neuro.05.008.2010 
PMCID: PMC2826187
PMID: 20179789 


2042. J Neurosci Methods. 2010 May 15;188(2):219-25. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2010.02.011. Epub 2010 Feb 17.

Performance of juvenile baboons on neuropsychological tests assessing associative
learning, motivation and attention.

ZÃ¼rcher NR(1), Rodriguez JS, Jenkins SL, Keenan K, Bartlett TQ, McDonald TJ,
Nathanielsz PW, Nijland MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Center for Pregnancy and Newborn
Research, The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San
Antonio, TX 78229, USA. rodriguezj13@uthscsa.edu

The CANTAB (Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery), a system
developed for human neuropsychological testing, has previously been used to
assess cognitive function in two species of nonhuman primates, common marmoset
monkeys and rhesus macaques. We describe the application of the system to the
juvenile baboon, a nonhuman primate species offering specific investigative
advantages. Juvenile baboons were trained and tested on a progressive ratio task 
to assess motivation, simple discrimination and simple reversal tasks to assess
associative learning, and intra- and extra-dimensional set-shifting tasks to
assess selective attention and attentional set-shifting, respectively. Study
subjects were 8 juvenile baboons (Papio sp.), 4 females and 4 males aged
3.0+/-0.1 (mean+SEM) years and weight 8.2+/-0.4 kg. All baboons were easily
trained, readily learned the neuropsychological tests and exhibited a stable
performance. Applying a method such as the CANTAB has significant implications
for expanding on the translational utility of the baboon in studies of
neurodevelopment.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2010.02.011 
PMCID: PMC3409834
PMID: 20170676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

