

2046. J Neurophysiol. 2010 Apr;103(4):1708-11. doi: 10.1152/jn.00182.2010. Epub 2010
Feb 17.

On pitch, the ear and the brain of the beholder. Focus on "neural coding of
periodicity in marmoset auditory cortex.".

Schnupp JW, Bizley JK.

Comment on
    J Neurophysiol. 2010 Apr;103(4):1809-22.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00182.2010 
PMID: 20164385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2047. Reproduction. 2010 May;139(5):923-30. doi: 10.1530/REP-09-0257. Epub 2010 Feb 15.

Luteotrophic effects of relaxin, chorionic gonadotrophin and FSH in common
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Beindorff N(1), Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Kellnerweg 4, 37077
GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

In early pregnant primates, relaxin (RLX) is highly upregulated within the corpus
luteum (CL), suggesting that RLX may have an important role in the implantation
of the blastocyst. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the
local effects of RLX and gonadotrophins on the maintenance of the CL using an in 
vitro microdialysis system. CLs of common marmoset monkeys were collected by
luteectomy during different stages of the luteal phase and early pregnancy. Each 
CL was perfused with either Ringer's solution alone or Ringer's solution
supplemented with either porcine RLX (250, 500 and 1000 ng/ml) or gonadotrophins 
(50 IU/ml). Application of RLX provoked a significant luteal response of
progesterone (P(4)) and oestradiol (E(2)) secretions during the mid-luteal phase 
(500 ng/ml: P(4) 54+/-42%, E(2) 24+/-11%; 1000 ng/ml: E(2) 16+/-13%), and
especially during the late luteal phase (250 ng/ml: P(4) 53+/-10%; 500 ng/ml:
P(4) 44+/-15%; 1000 ng/ml: P(4) 62+/-15%, E(2) 18+/-7%). The effects of RLX on
steroid secretion were irrespective of the RLX dosages. While treatment with
human chorionic gonadotrophin did not affect luteal steroid or RLX secretion, the
application of FSH resulted in a significant increase in the secretion of both
P(4) (20+/-8%) and E(2) (37+/-28%), and a prominent rise in RLX during early
pregnancy. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that RLX and FSH have a
luteotrophic function in the marmoset monkeys; moreover, FSH has a function
beyond its traditional role just as a follicle-stimulating hormone.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-09-0257 
PMID: 20156883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

