

2047. Reproduction. 2010 May;139(5):923-30. doi: 10.1530/REP-09-0257. Epub 2010 Feb 15.

Luteotrophic effects of relaxin, chorionic gonadotrophin and FSH in common
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Beindorff N(1), Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Kellnerweg 4, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.

In early pregnant primates, relaxin (RLX) is highly upregulated within the corpus
luteum (CL), suggesting that RLX may have an important role in the implantation
of the blastocyst. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the
local effects of RLX and gonadotrophins on the maintenance of the CL using an in 
vitro microdialysis system. CLs of common marmoset monkeys were collected by
luteectomy during different stages of the luteal phase and early pregnancy. Each 
CL was perfused with either Ringer's solution alone or Ringer's solution
supplemented with either porcine RLX (250, 500 and 1000 ng/ml) or gonadotrophins 
(50 IU/ml). Application of RLX provoked a significant luteal response of
progesterone (P(4)) and oestradiol (E(2)) secretions during the mid-luteal phase 
(500 ng/ml: P(4) 54+/-42%, E(2) 24+/-11%; 1000 ng/ml: E(2) 16+/-13%), and
especially during the late luteal phase (250 ng/ml: P(4) 53+/-10%; 500 ng/ml:
P(4) 44+/-15%; 1000 ng/ml: P(4) 62+/-15%, E(2) 18+/-7%). The effects of RLX on
steroid secretion were irrespective of the RLX dosages. While treatment with
human chorionic gonadotrophin did not affect luteal steroid or RLX secretion, the
application of FSH resulted in a significant increase in the secretion of both
P(4) (20+/-8%) and E(2) (37+/-28%), and a prominent rise in RLX during early
pregnancy. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that RLX and FSH have a
luteotrophic function in the marmoset monkeys; moreover, FSH has a function
beyond its traditional role just as a follicle-stimulating hormone.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-09-0257 
PMID: 20156883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2048. Behav Brain Res. 2010 Jun 26;210(1):74-83. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2010.02.017. Epub
2010 Feb 12.

Selective lesions of the dorsomedial striatum impair serial spatial reversal
learning in rats.

Castañé A(1), Theobald DE, Robbins TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute (BCNI), University of Cambridge, CB2 3EB, Cambridge,
United Kingdom. acfnqi@iibb.csic.es <acfnqi@iibb.csic.es>

Impairments in reversal learning have been attributed to orbitofrontal cortex
(OFC) dysfunction in many species. However, the role of subcortical areas
interconnected with the OFC such as the striatum remains poorly understood. This 
study directly evaluated the contribution of core and shell sub-regions of the
nucleus accumbens (NAc), dorsomedial (DMS) and dorsolateral (DLS) striatum to
reversal learning of an instrumental two-lever spatial discrimination task in
rats. Selective NAc core, DMS and DLS lesions were achieved with microinjections 
of quinolinic acid and NAc shell lesions with ibotenic acid. Damage to NAc core
or shell did not affect retention of a previously acquired instrumental spatial
discrimination. In contrast, DLS and DMS lesions produced changes in aspects of
discrimination performance such as the latency to collect earned food pellets.
Neither NAc core or shell lesions nor DLS lesions affected the main indices of
reversal performance. Conversely, DMS lesion rats showed a significant impairment
in reversal learning. DMS damage increased the number of errors to reach criteria
that were perseverative in nature. The deficit in reversal learning in DMS lesion
rats was not associated with an impairment to extinguish instrumental responding.
There were no effects on spontaneous locomotor activity. Our data are in
agreement with recent work showing that lesions of the medial striatum in
marmoset monkeys produce perseverative impairments during a serial visual
discrimination reversal task and support the hypothesis that dorsomedial striatal
dysfunction contributes to pathological perseveration, which is a common feature 
of many psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2010.02.017 
PMCID: PMC3038258
PMID: 20153781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

