

2048. Behav Brain Res. 2010 Jun 26;210(1):74-83. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2010.02.017. Epub
2010 Feb 12.

Selective lesions of the dorsomedial striatum impair serial spatial reversal
learning in rats.

Castañé A(1), Theobald DE, Robbins TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and Behavioural and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute (BCNI), University of Cambridge, CB2 3EB, Cambridge,
United Kingdom. acfnqi@iibb.csic.es <acfnqi@iibb.csic.es>

Impairments in reversal learning have been attributed to orbitofrontal cortex
(OFC) dysfunction in many species. However, the role of subcortical areas
interconnected with the OFC such as the striatum remains poorly understood. This 
study directly evaluated the contribution of core and shell sub-regions of the
nucleus accumbens (NAc), dorsomedial (DMS) and dorsolateral (DLS) striatum to
reversal learning of an instrumental two-lever spatial discrimination task in
rats. Selective NAc core, DMS and DLS lesions were achieved with microinjections 
of quinolinic acid and NAc shell lesions with ibotenic acid. Damage to NAc core
or shell did not affect retention of a previously acquired instrumental spatial
discrimination. In contrast, DLS and DMS lesions produced changes in aspects of
discrimination performance such as the latency to collect earned food pellets.
Neither NAc core or shell lesions nor DLS lesions affected the main indices of
reversal performance. Conversely, DMS lesion rats showed a significant impairment
in reversal learning. DMS damage increased the number of errors to reach criteria
that were perseverative in nature. The deficit in reversal learning in DMS lesion
rats was not associated with an impairment to extinguish instrumental responding.
There were no effects on spontaneous locomotor activity. Our data are in
agreement with recent work showing that lesions of the medial striatum in
marmoset monkeys produce perseverative impairments during a serial visual
discrimination reversal task and support the hypothesis that dorsomedial striatal
dysfunction contributes to pathological perseveration, which is a common feature 
of many psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2010.02.017 
PMCID: PMC3038258
PMID: 20153781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2049. J Neurophysiol. 2010 Apr;103(4):1809-22. doi: 10.1152/jn.00281.2009. Epub 2010
Feb 10.

Neural coding of periodicity in marmoset auditory cortex.

Bendor D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Bldg. 46, Rm. 5233, 43 Vassar
St., Cambridge, MA, USA. dbendor@mit.edu

Comment in
    J Neurophysiol. 2010 Apr;103(4):1708-11.

Pitch, our perception of how high or low a sound is on a musical scale, crucially
depends on a sound's periodicity. If an acoustic signal is temporally jittered so
that it becomes aperiodic, the pitch will no longer be perceivable even though
other acoustical features that normally covary with pitch are unchanged. Previous
electrophysiological studies investigating pitch have typically used only
periodic acoustic stimuli, and as such these studies cannot distinguish between a
neural representation of pitch and an acoustical feature that only correlates
with pitch. In this report, we examine in the auditory cortex of awake marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) the neural coding of a periodicity's repetition
rate, an acoustic feature that covaries with pitch. We first examine if
individual neurons show similar repetition rate tuning for different periodic
acoustic signals. We next measure how sensitive these neural representations are 
to the temporal regularity of the acoustic signal. We find that neurons
throughout auditory cortex covary their firing rate with the repetition rate of
an acoustic signal. However, similar repetition rate tuning across acoustic
stimuli and sensitivity to temporal regularity were generally only observed in a 
small group of neurons found near the anterolateral border of primary auditory
cortex, the location of a previously identified putative pitch processing center.
These results suggest that although the encoding of repetition rate is a general 
component of auditory cortical processing, the neural correlate of periodicity is
confined to a special class of pitch-selective neurons within the putative pitch 
processing center of auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00281.2009 
PMCID: PMC2853289
PMID: 20147419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

