

2049. J Neurophysiol. 2010 Apr;103(4):1809-22. doi: 10.1152/jn.00281.2009. Epub 2010
Feb 10.

Neural coding of periodicity in marmoset auditory cortex.

Bendor D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Bldg. 46, Rm. 5233, 43 Vassar
St., Cambridge, MA, USA. dbendor@mit.edu

Comment in
    J Neurophysiol. 2010 Apr;103(4):1708-11.

Pitch, our perception of how high or low a sound is on a musical scale, crucially
depends on a sound's periodicity. If an acoustic signal is temporally jittered so
that it becomes aperiodic, the pitch will no longer be perceivable even though
other acoustical features that normally covary with pitch are unchanged. Previous
electrophysiological studies investigating pitch have typically used only
periodic acoustic stimuli, and as such these studies cannot distinguish between a
neural representation of pitch and an acoustical feature that only correlates
with pitch. In this report, we examine in the auditory cortex of awake marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) the neural coding of a periodicity's repetition
rate, an acoustic feature that covaries with pitch. We first examine if
individual neurons show similar repetition rate tuning for different periodic
acoustic signals. We next measure how sensitive these neural representations are 
to the temporal regularity of the acoustic signal. We find that neurons
throughout auditory cortex covary their firing rate with the repetition rate of
an acoustic signal. However, similar repetition rate tuning across acoustic
stimuli and sensitivity to temporal regularity were generally only observed in a 
small group of neurons found near the anterolateral border of primary auditory
cortex, the location of a previously identified putative pitch processing center.
These results suggest that although the encoding of repetition rate is a general 
component of auditory cortical processing, the neural correlate of periodicity is
confined to a special class of pitch-selective neurons within the putative pitch 
processing center of auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00281.2009 
PMCID: PMC2853289
PMID: 20147419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2050. Chem Biol Interact. 2010 Sep 6;187(1-3):416-20. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.02.003.
Epub 2010 Feb 8.

Protection by pyridostigmine bromide of marmoset hemi-diaphragm
acetylcholinesterase activity after soman exposure.

Haigh JR(1), Adler M, Apland JP, Deshpande SS, Barham CB, Desmond P, Koplovitz I,
Lenz DE, Gordon RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Regulated Laboratories, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, 
Silver Spring, MD 20910, USA. julian.haigh@amedd.army.mil

Pyridostigmine bromide (PB) was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) in 2003 as a pretreatment in humans against the lethal effects of the
irreversible nerve agent soman (GD). Organophosphate (OP) chemical warfare agents
such as GD exert their toxic effects by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase (AChE)
from terminating the action of acetylcholine at postsynaptic sites in cholinergic
nerve terminals (including crucial peripheral muscle such as diaphragm). As part 
of the post-marketing approval of PB, the FDA required (under 21CFR314, the "two 
animal rule") the study of a non-human primate model (the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus jacchus) to demonstrate increased survival against lethal GD
poisoning, and protection of physiological hemi-diaphragm function after PB
pretreatment and subsequent GD exposure. Marmosets (male and female) were placed 
in the following experimental groups: (i) control (saline pretreatment only),
(ii) low dose PB (12.5 microg/kg), or (iii) high dose (39.5 microg/kg) PB. Thirty
minutes after the PB dose, animals were challenged with either saline (control)
or soman (GD, 45 microg/kg), followed 1 min later by atropine (2mg/kg) and 2-PAM 
(25mg/kg). After a further 16 min, animals were euthanized and the complete
diaphragm removed; the right hemi-diaphragm was frozen immediately at -80 degrees
C, and the left hemi-diaphragm was placed in a tissue bath for 4h (to allow for
decarbamylation to occur), then frozen. AChE activities were determined using the
automated WRAIR cholinesterase assay. Blood samples were collected for AChE
activities prior to PB, before GD challenge, and after sacrifice. RBC-AChE was
inhibited by approximately 18% and 50% at the low and high doses of PB,
respectively, compared to control (baseline) activity. In the absence of PB
pretreatment, the inhibition of RBC-AChE by GD was 98%. The recovery of
hemi-diaphragm AChE activity after the 4h wash period (decarbamylation) was
approximately 8% and 17%, at the low and high PB doses, respectively, compared
with the baseline (control) AChE activity prior to PB pretreatment or soman
exposure. The results suggest that PB pretreatment protects a critical fraction
of AChE activity in the marmoset diaphragm, which is sufficient to allow the
animal to breathe despite exposure to a dose of soman that is lethal in
unprotected animals.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.02.003 
PMID: 20144889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

