

2051. Biol Psychiatry. 2010 Jun 1;67(11):1106-9. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2009.12.016.
Epub 2010 Feb 4.

Primate early life stress leads to long-term mild hippocampal decreases in
corticosteroid receptor expression.

Arabadzisz D(1), Diaz-Heijtz R, Knuesel I, Weber E, Pilloud S, Dettling AC,
Feldon J, Law AJ, Harrison PJ, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Behavioral Neurobiology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, 
ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Expression of mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and glucocorticoid
receptor (GR) genes are moderately reduced in several brain regions in
depression. These reductions could be partly due to early life stress (ELS),
which predicts emotional disorders. Controlled primate studies are important to
test whether ELS sufficient to induce long-term emotional changes also induces
long-term altered MR and/or GR brain expression.
METHODS: In the common marmoset, ELS of daily 30-120-min social isolation across 
month-1 resulted in some long-term changes in homeostasis and emotional behavior.
In some of these same subjects, the aim of this study was to use
marmoset-specific riboprobes to determine whether ELS produced long-term effects 
on brain MR and GR gene expression.
RESULTS: At adolescence, relative to control subjects, ELS marmosets exhibited
mildly reduced messenger RNA signal for both MR (-15%, p = .05) and GR (-13%, p =
.02) in hippocampus-primarily CA1-2-but not in prefrontal cortex, other cortical 
regions, or hypothalamus.
CONCLUSIONS: In adolescent marmoset monkey brains, reduced hippocampal expression
of MR and GR are consistent chronic-indicators of ELS. It is unlikely that these 
chronic, mild, specific reductions were acute-mediators of the observed long-term
emotional effects of ELS. However, they do suggest involvement of hippocampal
MR/GR in the neurodevelopmental effects of ELS.

Copyright 2010 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsych.2009.12.016 
PMID: 20132928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2052. Am J Primatol. 2010 Jun;72(6):549-58. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20805.

Neighbor effects in marmosets: social contagion of agonism and affiliation in
captive Callithrix jacchus.

Watson CF(1), Caldwell CA.

Author information: 
(1)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group, Department of Psychology, University
of Stirling, Stirling, Scotland. c.f.watson@stir.ac.uk

Researchers have demonstrated the neighbor effect for affiliative and agonistic
neighbor vocalizations in captive chimpanzees. We extend the investigation of the
neighbor effect to New World monkeys, Callithrix jacchus. We collected data on
vocalizations and behaviors of 31 focal individuals and concurrent neighbor
vocalization within three behavioral categories: intragroup and intergroup
aggression and intragroup affiliation. We investigated whether there was an
influence of neighbor vocalizations on focal behavior within the same behavioral 
category. For data analysis we used approximate randomization of paired-sample
t-tests. We found that marmosets performed intergroup aggressive behavior
(bristle, anogenital present for neighbor loud shrill only) for significantly
longer, and emitted significantly more intergroup agonistic vocalizations
(twitter, loud shrill), at a high frequency of intergroup agonistic neighbor
vocalizations (twitter, loud shrill) than at low. The marmosets were also
significantly more likely to engage in bristle behavior immediately after hearing
a neighbor intergroup aggressive call (twitter, loud shrill) than directly
beforehand. High neighbor intragroup agonistic calls (chatter) were associated
with significantly longer spent in related behavior (composite of: attack, chase,
steal food). Affiliative behaviors (share food, grooming invite) were engaged in 
by marmosets for significantly longer at higher frequencies of affiliative
neighbor chirp calls than at low. Marmosets were also significantly more likely
to perform food sharing and active affiliative contact immediately after rather
than before hearing a neighbor chirp call. Our findings suggest that neighbor
vocalizations influence marmoset behavior through social contagion and indicate
that the neighbor effect for affiliation and aggression generalizes to the
marmoset.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20805 
PMID: 20131362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

