

2055. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2010 Nov;16(11):1669-72. doi:
10.1111/j.1469-0691.2010.03163.x.

Natural zoonotic infections of two marmosets and one domestic rabbit with herpes 
simplex virus type 1 did not reveal a correlation with a certain gG-, gI- or gE
genotype.

Sekulin K(1), Janková J, Kolodziejek J, Huemer HP, Gruber A, Meyer J, Nowotny N.

Author information: 
(1)University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria.

Infections with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) are not restricted to humans 
but infrequently may be transmitted to certain animal species, in some cases
resulting in severe disease, including encephalitis and death. Recent studies
demonstrate that humanderived HSV-1 field isolates can be typed according to
their gG- gIand gE gene sequences. We investigated whether HSV-1 infections of
animals were predominantly caused by a certain genotype. Isolates derived from
two marmosets and one domestic rabbit, however, revealed different genotypes.
Despite the very limited number of investigated animal-derived HSV-1 strains,
this result does not point towards the existence of certain HSV-1 genotypes with 
a higher potential of being transmitted to animals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-0691.2010.03163.x 
PMID: 20121821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2056. Am J Primatol. 2010 Jun;72(6):515-21. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20804.

Feeding ecology of a group of buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps):
fungi as a preferred resource.

Hilário RR(1), Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biology, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Pampulha,
Belo Horizonte, Brazil. renatohilario@gmail.com

Mycophagy is a relatively rare behavior in primates and has only been recorded in
five callitrichid species. Here, we present data on the feeding ecology of a
free-ranging group of Callithrix flaviceps, which was studied in the Augusto
Ruschi Biological Reserve, Southeastern Brazil, in 2008. In contrast with other
marmosets, which are typically gummivorous, the study group was predominantly
mycophagous-insectivorous, with fungi corresponding to 64.8% of total feeding
records, and gum (6.1%) and fruit (3.3%) together providing only a minor part of 
the diet. Prey corresponded to 25.8% of the group's diet. The fungi (Mycocitrus
spp.) consumed by the marmosets were found attached to the stems of Merostachys
bamboo. As the animal component of the group's diet was similar to that recorded 
in studies of other marmosets, we propose that fungi were exploited primarily as 
a substitute for plant material, in particular exudates. This highly mycophagous 
diet may be determined by two principal factors: (1) the abundance of fungi
within the study area, and (2) the avoidance of bark gouging, for which C.
flaviceps may be less specialized than most other marmosets. These conclusions
are supported by comparisons with other marmoset groups, which indicate an
ecological specialization for mycophagy in C. flaviceps, and that the species
will resort to gummivory in habitats where fungi are scarce.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20804 
PMID: 20120010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

