

2056. Am J Primatol. 2010 Jun;72(6):515-21. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20804.

Feeding ecology of a group of buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps):
fungi as a preferred resource.

Hilário RR(1), Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Biology, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Pampulha,
Belo Horizonte, Brazil. renatohilario@gmail.com

Mycophagy is a relatively rare behavior in primates and has only been recorded in
five callitrichid species. Here, we present data on the feeding ecology of a
free-ranging group of Callithrix flaviceps, which was studied in the Augusto
Ruschi Biological Reserve, Southeastern Brazil, in 2008. In contrast with other
marmosets, which are typically gummivorous, the study group was predominantly
mycophagous-insectivorous, with fungi corresponding to 64.8% of total feeding
records, and gum (6.1%) and fruit (3.3%) together providing only a minor part of 
the diet. Prey corresponded to 25.8% of the group's diet. The fungi (Mycocitrus
spp.) consumed by the marmosets were found attached to the stems of Merostachys
bamboo. As the animal component of the group's diet was similar to that recorded 
in studies of other marmosets, we propose that fungi were exploited primarily as 
a substitute for plant material, in particular exudates. This highly mycophagous 
diet may be determined by two principal factors: (1) the abundance of fungi
within the study area, and (2) the avoidance of bark gouging, for which C.
flaviceps may be less specialized than most other marmosets. These conclusions
are supported by comparisons with other marmoset groups, which indicate an
ecological specialization for mycophagy in C. flaviceps, and that the species
will resort to gummivory in habitats where fungi are scarce.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20804 
PMID: 20120010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2057. Mov Disord. 2010 Feb 15;25(3):377-84. doi: 10.1002/mds.22960.

Pramipexole combined with levodopa improves motor function but reduces dyskinesia
in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Tayarani-Binazir KA(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, Olanow CW, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.

Reduced expression of dyskinesia is observed in levodopa-primed MPTP-treated
common marmosets when dopamine agonists are used to replace levodopa. We now
investigate whether a combination of the D-2/D-3 agonist pramipexole and levodopa
also reduces dyskinesia intensity while maintaining the reversal of motor
disability. Drug naïve, non-dyskinetic MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated
daily for up to 62 days with levodopa (12.5 mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o. 
BID) or pramipexole (0.04-0.3 mg/kg BID) producing equivalent reversal of motor
disability and increases in locomotor activity. Levodopa alone resulted in marked
dyskinesia induction but little or no dyskinesia resulted from the administration
of pramipexole. From day 36, some animals were treated with a combination of
levodopa (3.125-6.25 mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o. BID) and pramipexole
(0.1-0.2 mg/kg p.o. SID). This improved motor disability to a greater extent than
occurred with levodopa alone. Importantly, while dyskinesia was greater than that
produced by pramipexole alone, the combination resulted in less intense
dyskinesia than produced by levodopa alone. These results suggest that
pramipexole could be administered with a reduced dose of levodopa to minimize
dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease while maintaining therapeutic efficacy.

(c) 2010 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.22960 
PMID: 20108359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

