

2057. Mov Disord. 2010 Feb 15;25(3):377-84. doi: 10.1002/mds.22960.

Pramipexole combined with levodopa improves motor function but reduces dyskinesia
in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Tayarani-Binazir KA(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, Olanow CW, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.

Reduced expression of dyskinesia is observed in levodopa-primed MPTP-treated
common marmosets when dopamine agonists are used to replace levodopa. We now
investigate whether a combination of the D-2/D-3 agonist pramipexole and levodopa
also reduces dyskinesia intensity while maintaining the reversal of motor
disability. Drug na√Øve, non-dyskinetic MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated
daily for up to 62 days with levodopa (12.5 mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o. 
BID) or pramipexole (0.04-0.3 mg/kg BID) producing equivalent reversal of motor
disability and increases in locomotor activity. Levodopa alone resulted in marked
dyskinesia induction but little or no dyskinesia resulted from the administration
of pramipexole. From day 36, some animals were treated with a combination of
levodopa (3.125-6.25 mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o. BID) and pramipexole
(0.1-0.2 mg/kg p.o. SID). This improved motor disability to a greater extent than
occurred with levodopa alone. Importantly, while dyskinesia was greater than that
produced by pramipexole alone, the combination resulted in less intense
dyskinesia than produced by levodopa alone. These results suggest that
pramipexole could be administered with a reduced dose of levodopa to minimize
dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease while maintaining therapeutic efficacy.

(c) 2010 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.22960 
PMID: 20108359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2058. J Pharmacol Toxicol Methods. 2010 May-Jun;61(3):271-6. doi:
10.1016/j.vascn.2010.01.006. Epub 2010 Jan 25.

Sensitivity of common marmosets to detect drug-induced QT interval prolongation: 
moxifloxacin case study.

Komatsu R(1), Honda M, Holzgrefe HH, Kubo J, Yamada Y, Isobe T, Kimura K, Itoh T,
Tamaoki N, Tabo M.

Author information: 
(1)Fuji Gotemba Laboratory, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shizuoka 412-8513,
Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Moxifloxacin is the most widely used positive reference agent in
clinical cardiac repolarization studies, but it has not been characterized in
common marmosets which are uniquely suited to studies in early-stage development 
due to their small size and minimal test article requirements. The purpose of
this study was to evaluate the sensitivity of the common marmoset to detect
moxifloxacin-associated QT interval prolongation.
METHODS: Eight telemetered common marmosets were monitored for 24 h following
oral administration of moxifloxacin by gavage at 0, 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg using a
Latin square design. Concurrently, a pharmacokinetic evaluation in 8
non-telemetered animals was conducted. A rate-corrected QT (QTc) interval was
derived using an individual probabilistic QT rate-correction. QTc
(placebo-adjusted QTc change from the individual baseline) was calculated and the
relationship between pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) was
analyzed.
RESULTS: A slight, but not significant, increase in QTc was detected with 10
mg/kg of moxifloxacin. Moxifloxacin at 30 and 100 mg/kg elicited dose-dependent
increases in QTc of 14.0+/-3.6 and 35.0+/-6.2 ms, respectively, with associated
total moxifloxacin C(max) values of 6.5+/-0.5 and 16.5+/-1.6 microg/mL,
respectively. From the PK/PD relationship, the plasma concentration which would
attain QTc of 5 to 10 ms was estimated to be 1.67-3.73 microg/mL. The results
were consistent with typical clinical trial results (QTc of 6.6-14.8 ms at
2.5-3.5 microg/mL).
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates that the common marmoset is highly
sensitive to moxifloxacin-associated changes in cardiac repolarization, assessed 
as QTc. As such, this species is suitable for precise and reliable detection of
small, but significant, drug-associated increases in QTc interval. Thus, the
common marmoset should be regarded as a validated animal model for the detection 
of QT risk in early-stage drug development and represents an important addition
to the current in vivo armamentarium.
