

2058. J Pharmacol Toxicol Methods. 2010 May-Jun;61(3):271-6. doi:
10.1016/j.vascn.2010.01.006. Epub 2010 Jan 25.

Sensitivity of common marmosets to detect drug-induced QT interval prolongation: 
moxifloxacin case study.

Komatsu R(1), Honda M, Holzgrefe HH, Kubo J, Yamada Y, Isobe T, Kimura K, Itoh T,
Tamaoki N, Tabo M.

Author information: 
(1)Fuji Gotemba Laboratory, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shizuoka 412-8513,
Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Moxifloxacin is the most widely used positive reference agent in
clinical cardiac repolarization studies, but it has not been characterized in
common marmosets which are uniquely suited to studies in early-stage development 
due to their small size and minimal test article requirements. The purpose of
this study was to evaluate the sensitivity of the common marmoset to detect
moxifloxacin-associated QT interval prolongation.
METHODS: Eight telemetered common marmosets were monitored for 24 h following
oral administration of moxifloxacin by gavage at 0, 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg using a
Latin square design. Concurrently, a pharmacokinetic evaluation in 8
non-telemetered animals was conducted. A rate-corrected QT (QTc) interval was
derived using an individual probabilistic QT rate-correction. QTc
(placebo-adjusted QTc change from the individual baseline) was calculated and the
relationship between pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) was
analyzed.
RESULTS: A slight, but not significant, increase in QTc was detected with 10
mg/kg of moxifloxacin. Moxifloxacin at 30 and 100 mg/kg elicited dose-dependent
increases in QTc of 14.0+/-3.6 and 35.0+/-6.2 ms, respectively, with associated
total moxifloxacin C(max) values of 6.5+/-0.5 and 16.5+/-1.6 microg/mL,
respectively. From the PK/PD relationship, the plasma concentration which would
attain QTc of 5 to 10 ms was estimated to be 1.67-3.73 microg/mL. The results
were consistent with typical clinical trial results (QTc of 6.6-14.8 ms at
2.5-3.5 microg/mL).
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates that the common marmoset is highly
sensitive to moxifloxacin-associated changes in cardiac repolarization, assessed 
as QTc. As such, this species is suitable for precise and reliable detection of
small, but significant, drug-associated increases in QTc interval. Thus, the
common marmoset should be regarded as a validated animal model for the detection 
of QT risk in early-stage drug development and represents an important addition
to the current in vivo armamentarium.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vascn.2010.01.006 
PMID: 20097298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2059. J Pharmacol Toxicol Methods. 2010 May-Jun;61(3):264-70. doi:
10.1016/j.vascn.2010.01.005. Epub 2010 Jan 25.

Application of probabilistic analysis for precisely correcting the QT interval
for heart rate in telemetered common marmosets.

Honda M(1), Komatsu R, Holzgrefe HH, Yamada Y, Isobe T, Kimura K, Itoh T, Tamaoki
N, Tabo M.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment Dept. Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. 1-135 Komakado,
Gotemba, Shizuoka 412-8513, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: QT intervals are strongly influenced by preceeding heart rate
history and are also characterized by rate-independent variability, leading to
difficulty in precise rate-correction of the raw QT interval. The present study
elucidates a novel analytical method that effectively addresses this problematic 
phenomenon in telemetered common marmosets.
METHODS: ECGs were collected from telemetered common marmosets (male and female) 
and analyzed by computerized algorithms. Descriptive statistics were calculated
from the mean of QT intervals for 5-ms increments of RR. The QT interval was
corrected for the RR interval by applying Bazett's, Fridericia's, and individual 
probabilistic QT rate-correction formulae.
RESULTS: The linear regression of log-transformed QT and RR intervals derived
from a probabilistic approach yielded a well-correlated QT-RR fit. Assessed as
the slope of the QTc-RR interval, application of individual probabilistic QT
rate-corrections resulted in the most effective dissociation of the effects of
rate from the raw QT interval, compared to generic rate-correction formulae.
Using individual corrections, the QTc was stable while the interquartile range
(IQR) of the QTc distribution was stable, spanning 5-10 ms for each subject over 
all physiological RR intervals. Heart rate variability distributions were
centered about unity during both photoperiods and sinus arrhythmia was far less
pronounced compared with measurements in dogs.
DISCUSSION: Probabilistic QT rate-correction eliminated the confounding effects
of heart rate and provided a stable QTc baseline. These results indicate that
application of this method of analysis in telemetered common marmosets results in
a high degree of sensitivity for the consistent detection of small (5-10 ms)
changes in the QTc interval.
