

206. J Chem Neuroanat. 2021 Mar;112:101914. doi: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2020.101914. Epub 
2020 Dec 31.

Distribution and morphology of calbindin neurons in the Amygdaloid Complex of the
marmoset monkey (callithrix jacchus).

de Góis Morais PLA(1), Paiva KM(2), Oliveira RF(2), Santana MAD(3), Guzen FP(2), 
Engelberth RCGJ(4), de Souza Cavalcante J(4), Nascimento ES Junior(4), Cavalcanti
JRLP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade do Estado do Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. Electronic address:
Pauloleonardo87@hotmail.com.
(2)Universidade do Estado do Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal do Vale do São Francisco, Brazil.
(4)Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil.

The location and distribution of the calcium-binding protein calbindin-D28k (CB) 
has been considered to be of great value as a neuronal marker for identifying
distinct brain regions and discrete neuronal populations. In the amygdaloid
complex (AC), the balance of excitatory and inhibitory inputs is controlled by CB
immunoreactive interneurons. Alterations of inhibitory mechanisms in the AC may
play a role in the emotional symptomatology of neurological diseases like
Alzheimer's and psychiatric disorders like posttraumatic stress disorder. The
present investigation examined the distribution and morphology of CB-containing
neurons, neuropils and fibers in marmoset monkey ACs by using immunohistochemical
and morphometrical methods. We recognized four types of CB cells in the AC: type 
1 (multipolar), type 2 (spherical or bipolar), type 3 (pyramidal) and type 4
(halo cells), a cell type specific to the marmoset located in the basal and
central nuclei. We detected CB cells in all nuclei and areas of the AC, where
most of the cells were present in the deep nuclei (lateral, basal, accessory
basal and paralaminar). In the superficial nuclei (the nucleus of the lateral
olfactory tract, medial nucleus, periamygdaloid cortex and cortical nuclei), the 
CB cells were abundant in layers 2 and 3. The intercalated nuclei contained small
densely packed cells. The CB neuropils were particularly dense in layer 1 of the 
superficial nuclei, in the deep nuclei and in the amygdalohippocampal area. Large
CB immunoreactive neurons in the white matter and fibers with varicosities were
found in the myelin tracts that surrounded the AC. These findings are the first
step in determining whether some of these cells are specifically disrupted in
pathological states.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2020.101914 
PMID: 33388377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2021 Mar 1;60(2):188-194. doi:
10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-20-000082. Epub 2020 Dec 29.

Pharmacokinetics of Buprenorphine and Sustained-release Buprenorphine in Common
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Fitz CB(1), Goodroe AE(2), Moody DE(3), Fang WB(3), Capuano SV III(4).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Services Unit, Wisconsin National Primate Research Center,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin;, Email:
cfitz@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Veterinary Resources, Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio,
Texas.
(3)Center for Human Toxicology, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology,
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(4)Veterinary Services Unit, Wisconsin National Primate Research Center,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.

Buprenorphine is an essential component of analgesic protocols in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The use of buprenorphine HCl (BUP) and
sustained-release buprenorphine (BSR) formulations has become commonplace in this
species, but the pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated. Healthy adult (age,
2.4 to 6.8 y; 6 female and 6 male) common marmosets were enrolled in this study
to determine the pharmacokinetic parameters, plasma concentration-time curves,
and any apparent adverse effects of these compounds. Equal numbers of each sex
were randomly assigned to receive BUP (0.02 mg/kg IM) or BSR (0.2 mg/kg SC),
resulting in peak plasma concentrations (mean ± 1 SD) of 15.2 ± 8.1 and 2.8 ± 1.2
ng/mL, terminal phase t1/2 of 2.2 ± 1.0 and 32.6 ± 9.6 h, and AUC0-last of 16.1 ±
3.7 and 98.6 ± 42.7 ng × h/mL. The plasma concentrations of buprenorphine
exceeded the proposed minimal therapeutic threshold (0.1 ng/mL) at 5 and 15 min
after BUP and BSR administration, showing that both compounds are rapid-acting,
and remained above that threshold through the final time points of 8 and 72 h.
Extrapolation of the terminal elimination phase of the mean concentration-time
curves was used to develop the clinical dosing frequencies of 6 to 8 h for BUP
and 3.0 to 3.5 d for BSR. Some adverse effects were observed after the
administration of BUP to common marmosets in this study, thus mandating judicious
use in clinical practice. BSR provided a safe, long-acting option for analgesia
and therefore can be used to refine analgesic protocols in this species.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-20-000082 
PMCID: PMC7974810
PMID: 33375952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

