

2060. J Neurosci Res. 2010 May 15;88(7):1394-405. doi: 10.1002/jnr.22322.

Transplantation of galectin-1-expressing human neural stem cells into the injured
spinal cord of adult common marmosets.

Yamane J(1), Nakamura M, Iwanami A, Sakaguchi M, Katoh H, Yamada M, Momoshima S, 
Miyao S, Ishii K, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Okano HJ, Kanemura Y, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Delayed transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NS/PCs) into the injured
spinal cord can promote functional recovery in adult rats and monkeys. To enhance
the functional recovery after NS/PC transplantation, we focused on galectin-1, a 
carbohydrate-binding protein with pleiotropic roles in cell growth,
differentiation, apoptosis, and neurite outgrowth. Here, to determine the
combined therapeutic effect of NS/PC transplantation and galectin-1 on spinal
cord injury (SCI), human NS/PCs were transfected by lentivirus with galectin-1
and green fluorescent protein (GFP), (Gal-NS/PCs) or GFP alone (GFP-NS/PCs),
expanded in vitro, and then transplanted into the spinal cord of adult common
marmosets, 9 days after contusive cervical SCI. The animals' motor function was
evaluated by their spontaneous motor activity, bar grip power, and performance on
a treadmill test. Histological analyses revealed that the grafted human NS/PCs
survived and differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. There
were significant differences in the myelinated area, corticospinal fibers, and
serotonergic fibers among the Gal-NS/PC, GFP-NS/PC, vehicle-control, and
sham-operated groups. The Gal-NS/PC-grafted animals showed a better performance
on all the behavioral tests compared with the other groups. These findings
suggest that Gal-NS/PCs have better therapeutic potential than NS/PCs for SCI in 
nonhuman primates and that human Gal-NS/PC transplantation might be a feasible
treatment for human SCI.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.22322 
PMID: 20091712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2061. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2010 Apr 1;166(2):436-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2010.01.009. 
Epub 2010 Jan 11.

The relationship between the production and the anti-gonadotrophic action of
prostaglandin F 2 alpha in luteal cells from the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) in the early and mid-luteal phase.

Webley GE(1), Michael AE, Abayasekara DR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Regent's Park, London NW1 4RY, UK.

To address the potential luteolytic role for prostaglandin F(2 alpha) (PGF(2
alpha)) in the corpus luteum of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), 
the ability of marmoset luteal cells, maintained in monolayer culture, to produce
PGF(2 alpha) was determined in vitro in the presence and absence of human
chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) and other established pharmacological modulators of
PGF(2 alpha) synthesis. We also assessed the effects of the PGF(2 alpha)
analogue, cloprostenol, on progesterone output from luteal cells isolated in the 
early luteal phase versus the mid-luteal phase (days 3 and 14 post ovulation,
respectively). Cloprostenol had no effect on progesterone output from luteal
cells isolated on day 3 of the luteal phase, whereas it significantly inhibited
both basal and hCG-stimulated progesterone synthesis by day 14 luteal cells
during the culture period 48-72 h (P<0.001). Intra-luteal PGF(2 alpha)
concentrations were 5-fold higher in luteal cells isolated in the early luteal
phase than in mid-luteal phase cells (16.5+/-3.5 versus 3.5+/-0.6 pmol/10(5)
cells). While PGF(2 alpha) production was unaffected by hCG in vitro, it was
decreased by indomethacin (1000 ng/ml) (P<0.05) and stimulated by the calcium
ionophore A23187 (10 micromol/l) (P<0.05) in luteal cells from both stages of the
luteal phase. Phospholipase A(2) did not influence PGF(2 alpha) production by day
3 luteal cells whereas at 10 IU/ml, it significantly stimulated PGF(2 alpha)
production by day 14 luteal cells (P<0.05). Hence, the timing of luteolysis in
the common marmoset monkey appears to involve changes in both the luteal cell
response to and production of PGF(2 alpha).

(c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2010.01.009 
PMID: 20067799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

