

2064. Behav Processes. 2010 May;84(1):536-40. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2009.12.014. Epub
2009 Dec 24.

Within-session changes in licking as a function of sucrose concentration in
common marmosets.

Ishii T(1), Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Mita Toho Building 7F, Centre for Advanced Research for Logic and Sensibility,
Keio University, 3-1-5 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-0073, Japan.
ishii@psy.flet.keio.ac.jp

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were allowed to lick sucrose solutions
freely in 30-min sessions. We examined how the rate of licking changed in the
course of a session and how the pattern of changes was affected by different
concentrations (1%, 5%, and 25%) of solutions. The results showed that licking
rates decreased monotonically regardless of the concentrations and that the
decreasing patterns could be reasonably explained by exponential functions. The
rates of decrease were slowest for the 5% solution and fastest for the 1%
solution. The linear relation between the number of licks in a short interval and
the cumulative number of licks before that interval, which was suggested by
Aoyama (1996), did not always hold. The cumulative records of licking for
individual sessions revealed that a break-and-run pattern of licking sometimes
dominated after a licking rate slowed down, and that this pattern could disturb
the linear relation.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2009.12.014 
PMID: 20035844  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2065. Horm Behav. 2010 Feb;57(2):255-62. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.12.004. Epub 2009
Dec 16.

Manipulation of the oxytocin system alters social behavior and attraction in
pair-bonding primates, Callithrix penicillata.

Smith AS(1), Agmo A, Birnie AK, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Facility, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA. asmith@neuro.fsu.edu

The establishment and maintenance of stable, long-term male-female relationships,
or pair-bonds, are marked by high levels of mutual attraction, selective
preference for the partner, and high rates of sociosexual behavior. Central
oxytocin (OT) affects social preference and partner-directed social behavior in
rodents, but the role of this neuropeptide has yet to be studied in heterosexual 
primate relationships. The present study evaluated whether the OT system plays a 
role in the dynamics of social behavior and partner preference during the first 3
weeks of cohabitation in male and female marmosets, Callithrix penicillata. OT
activity was stimulated by intranasal administration of OT, and inhibited by oral
administration of a non-peptide OT-receptor antagonist (L-368,899; Merck). Social
behavior throughout the pairing varied as a function of OT treatment. Compared to
controls, marmosets initiated huddling with their social partner more often after
OT treatments but reduced proximity and huddling after OT antagonist treatments. 
OT antagonist treatment also eliminated food sharing between partners. During the
24-h preference test, all marmosets interacted more with an opposite-sex stranger
than with the partner. By the third-week preference test, marmosets interacted
with the partner and stranger equally with the exception that intranasal-OT
treatments facilitated initial partner-seeking behavior over initial contact with
the stranger. Our findings demonstrate that pharmacological manipulations of OT
activity alter partner-directed social behavior during pair interactions,
suggesting that central OT may facilitate the process of pair-bond formation and 
social relationships in marmoset monkeys.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.12.004 
PMCID: PMC2824532
PMID: 20025881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

