

2069. J Neurosci. 2009 Dec 9;29(49):15455-71. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1648-09.2009.

Four projection streams from primate V1 to the cytochrome oxidase stripes of V2.

Federer F(1), Ichida JM, Jeffs J, Schiessl I, McLoughlin N, Angelucci A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84132,
USA.

In the primate visual system, areas V1 and V2 distribute information they receive
from the retina to all higher cortical areas, sorting this information into
dorsal and ventral streams. Therefore, knowledge of the organization of
projections between V1 and V2 is crucial to understand how the cortex processes
visual information. In primates, parallel output pathways from V1 project to
distinct V2 stripes. The traditional tripartite division of V1-to-V2 projections 
was recently replaced by a bipartite scheme, in which thin stripes receive V1
inputs from blob columns, and thick and pale stripes receive common input from
interblob columns. Here, we demonstrate that thick and pale stripes, instead,
receive spatially segregated V1 inputs and that the interblob is partitioned into
two compartments: the middle of the interblob projecting to pale stripes and the 
blob/interblob border region projecting to thick stripes. Double-labeling
experiments further demonstrate that V1 cells project to either thick or pale
stripes, but rarely to both. We also find laminar specialization of V1 outputs,
with layer 4B contributing projections mainly to thick stripes, and no
projections to one set of pale stripes. These laminar differences suggest
different contribution of magno, parvo, and konio inputs to each V1 output
pathway. These results provide a new foundation for parallel processing models of
the visual system by demonstrating four V1-to-V2 pathways: blob columns-to-thin
stripes, blob/interblob border columns-to-thick stripes, interblob
columns-to-pale(lateral) stripes, layer 2/3-4A interblobs-to-pale(medial)
stripes.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1648-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC2909028
PMID: 20007470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2070. Methods Mol Biol. 2010;598:341-59. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60761-401-2_23.

Immunotoxicity testing in nonhuman primates.

Grote-Wessels S, Frings W, Smith CA, Weinbauer GF.

Biological relevance is generally the major justification for using nonhuman
primates (NHP) during preclinical safety assessment. This holds particularly true
for the evaluation of biopharmaceuticals with NHP often being the species of
choice. For safety assessment of small molecules, NHP are used in case of a
higher degree of metabolic similarity, to detect the highly specific immunotoxic 
side effects and to discriminate toxicity from efficacy of immunomodulatory
drugs. Unlike for rodent immunotoxicity studies, standardized tests and protocols
are generally less available for NHP. The immunotoxicity testing protocols
described in the present chapter have been adapted for application to NHP
samples. In principle, rodent protocols can be transferred to NHP. Fortunately,
most of the immunotoxicity parameters delineated in the ICH S8 guideline can be
applied to NHP specimens. Exceptions are the host resistance assay and the
delayed type hypersensitivity test. Owing to the close structural and
physiological similarity between NHP and human, human test kits or reagents are
often well suited for application to NHP samples. For data evaluation it should
be noted that no inbred strains of NHP are available, resulting in a large
inter-animal variability for most immunotoxicity assay results. The experimental 
protocols and reagents described in this chapter were developed specifically for 
the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis), currently the most commonly used NHP
species in toxicology. In many instances, these protocols will also be applicable
to rhesus monkeys (M. mulatta) and potentially to other Old World macaques. For
the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey also used in toxicology,
the choice of available immunotoxicity testing protocols is much reduced when
compared to macaques.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60761-401-2_23 
PMID: 19967524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

