

2071. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2009;2009:3833-6. doi:
10.1109/IEMBS.2009.5335132.

Low-cost wireless neural recording system and software.

Gregory JA(1), Borna A, Roy S, Wang X, Lewandowski B, Schmidt M, Najafi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA. jagregor@umich.edu

We describe a flexible wireless neural recording system, which is comprised of a 
15-channel analog FM transmitter, digital receiver and custom user interface
software for data acquisition. The analog front-end is constructed from
commercial off the shelf (COTS) components and weighs 6.3g (including batteries) 
and is capable of transmitting over 24 hours up to a range over 3m with a
25microV(rms) in-vivo noise floor. The Software Defined Radio (SDR) and the
acquisition software provide a data acquisition platform with real time data
display and can be customized based on the specifications of various experiments.
The described system was characterized with in-vitro and in-vivo experiments and 
the results are presented.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2009.5335132 
PMCID: PMC4324723
PMID: 19965244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2072. Hear Res. 2010 Feb;260(1-2):96-108. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2009.12.001. Epub 2009 
Dec 4.

Sound localization cues in the marmoset monkey.

Slee SJ(1), Young ED.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering Dept., Johns Hopkins University, 505 Traylor Research
Building, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. sslee1@jhmi.edu

The most important acoustic cues available to the brain for sound localization
are produced by the interaction of sound with the animal's head and external
ears. As a first step in understanding the relation between these cues and their 
neural representation in a vocal new-world primate, we measured head-related
transfer functions (HRTFs) across frequency for a wide range of sound locations
in three anesthetized marmoset monkeys. The HRTF magnitude spectrum has a broad
resonance peak at 6-12 kHz that coincides with the frequency range of the major
call types of this species. A prominent first spectral notch (FN) in the HRTF
magnitude above this resonance was observed at most source locations. The center 
frequency of the FN increased monotonically from approximately 12 to 26 kHz with 
increases in elevation in the lateral field. In the frontal field FN frequency
changed in a less orderly fashion with source position. From the HRTFs we derived
interaural time (ITDs) and level differences (ILDs). ITDs and ILDs (below 12 kHz)
varied as a function of azimuth between +/-250 micros and +/-20dB, respectively. 
A reflexive orienting behavioral paradigm was used to confirm that marmosets can 
orient to sound sources.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2009.12.001 
PMCID: PMC2819082
PMID: 19963054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

