

2072. Hear Res. 2010 Feb;260(1-2):96-108. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2009.12.001. Epub 2009 
Dec 4.

Sound localization cues in the marmoset monkey.

Slee SJ(1), Young ED.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering Dept., Johns Hopkins University, 505 Traylor Research
Building, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. sslee1@jhmi.edu

The most important acoustic cues available to the brain for sound localization
are produced by the interaction of sound with the animal's head and external
ears. As a first step in understanding the relation between these cues and their 
neural representation in a vocal new-world primate, we measured head-related
transfer functions (HRTFs) across frequency for a wide range of sound locations
in three anesthetized marmoset monkeys. The HRTF magnitude spectrum has a broad
resonance peak at 6-12 kHz that coincides with the frequency range of the major
call types of this species. A prominent first spectral notch (FN) in the HRTF
magnitude above this resonance was observed at most source locations. The center 
frequency of the FN increased monotonically from approximately 12 to 26 kHz with 
increases in elevation in the lateral field. In the frontal field FN frequency
changed in a less orderly fashion with source position. From the HRTFs we derived
interaural time (ITDs) and level differences (ILDs). ITDs and ILDs (below 12 kHz)
varied as a function of azimuth between +/-250 micros and +/-20dB, respectively. 
A reflexive orienting behavioral paradigm was used to confirm that marmosets can 
orient to sound sources.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2009.12.001 
PMCID: PMC2819082
PMID: 19963054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2073. J Vet Med Sci. 2009 Nov;71(11):1493-7.

Bone mineral analysis through dual energy X-ray absorptiometry in laboratory
animals.

TSUJIO M(1), MIZOROGI T, KITAMURA I, MAEDA Y, NISHIJIMA K, KUWAHARA S, OHNO T,
NIIDA S, NAGAYA M, Saito R, Tanaka S.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Facility for Aging Research (AFAR), National Center for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology (NCGG), Obu, Aichi, Japan.

To determine how to eliminate species difference in animal bone experiment, bone 
mineral content (BMC) was measured using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)
on the femurs of laboratory mice (Mus musculus) and rats (Rattus norvegicus), and
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Measures were taken on femurs in situ,
detached from the body, skinned and defleshed, or dried completely. When the BMC 
of the bone measured in the intact limb attached to the trunk was set at 100%,
the actual BMC of the dry bone was 58.7 +/- 11.5% in mice and 103.2 +/- 3.2% in
rats. Similarly, the bone area (Area) and bone mineral density (BMD) of the dried
femur was significantly lower in the mouse femurs than intact limb. Thus, soft
limb tissue such as skin and muscle modified the BMC, Area, and BMD only in mouse
but not in those from rats or marmosets. The bone mineral ratio (BMR; BMC divided
by dry bone weight) was nearest to the human bone value in the rat femurs,
whereas the mouse femur BMR was the most different. The BMR was proved to be a
practical index in evaluating bone characteristics in laboratory animals, but the
mouse femur might not be suitable as an animal model for research into the aging 
of human bone.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.001493 
PMID: 19959901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

