

2073. J Vet Med Sci. 2009 Nov;71(11):1493-7.

Bone mineral analysis through dual energy X-ray absorptiometry in laboratory
animals.

TSUJIO M(1), MIZOROGI T, KITAMURA I, MAEDA Y, NISHIJIMA K, KUWAHARA S, OHNO T,
NIIDA S, NAGAYA M, Saito R, Tanaka S.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Facility for Aging Research (AFAR), National Center for Geriatrics and 
Gerontology (NCGG), Obu, Aichi, Japan.

To determine how to eliminate species difference in animal bone experiment, bone 
mineral content (BMC) was measured using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)
on the femurs of laboratory mice (Mus musculus) and rats (Rattus norvegicus), and
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Measures were taken on femurs in situ,
detached from the body, skinned and defleshed, or dried completely. When the BMC 
of the bone measured in the intact limb attached to the trunk was set at 100%,
the actual BMC of the dry bone was 58.7 +/- 11.5% in mice and 103.2 +/- 3.2% in
rats. Similarly, the bone area (Area) and bone mineral density (BMD) of the dried
femur was significantly lower in the mouse femurs than intact limb. Thus, soft
limb tissue such as skin and muscle modified the BMC, Area, and BMD only in mouse
but not in those from rats or marmosets. The bone mineral ratio (BMR; BMC divided
by dry bone weight) was nearest to the human bone value in the rat femurs,
whereas the mouse femur BMR was the most different. The BMR was proved to be a
practical index in evaluating bone characteristics in laboratory animals, but the
mouse femur might not be suitable as an animal model for research into the aging 
of human bone.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.001493 
PMID: 19959901  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2074. Microbiol Immunol. 2009 Dec;53(12):667-74. doi: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.2009.00176.x.

Epitope mapping of Canine distemper virus phosphoprotein by monoclonal
antibodies.

Sugai A(1), Kooriyama T, Sato H, Yoneda M, Kai C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Research Center, The Institute of Medical Science, The
University of Tokyo, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

The gene for phosphoprotein (P) of CDV encodes three different proteins, P, V,
and C. The P protein is involved in viral gene transcription and replication. In 
the present study, we produced MAbs against a unique domain of the CDV-P protein,
from aa 232 to 507, and determined their antigenic sites. By immunizing BALB/c
mice with the recombinant P protein-specific fragment, we obtained six MAbs.
Competitive binding inhibition assays revealed that they recognized two distinct 
regions of the P protein. Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence assays
using deletion mutants of the unique C-terminus of the CDV-P protein revealed
that all MAbs recognized a central short region (aa 233-303) of the CDV-P
protein. In addition, linear and conformational epitopes have been determined,
and at least four antigenic sites exist in the P protein central region.
Furthermore, four of the MAbs were found to react with the P protein of recent
Japanese field isolates but not with that of the older CDV strains, including a
vaccine strain. Thus, these MAbs could be clinically useful for quick diagnosis
during the CDV outbreaks.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.2009.00176.x 
PMID: 19954454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

