

2074. Microbiol Immunol. 2009 Dec;53(12):667-74. doi: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.2009.00176.x.

Epitope mapping of Canine distemper virus phosphoprotein by monoclonal
antibodies.

Sugai A(1), Kooriyama T, Sato H, Yoneda M, Kai C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Research Center, The Institute of Medical Science, The
University of Tokyo, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

The gene for phosphoprotein (P) of CDV encodes three different proteins, P, V,
and C. The P protein is involved in viral gene transcription and replication. In 
the present study, we produced MAbs against a unique domain of the CDV-P protein,
from aa 232 to 507, and determined their antigenic sites. By immunizing BALB/c
mice with the recombinant P protein-specific fragment, we obtained six MAbs.
Competitive binding inhibition assays revealed that they recognized two distinct 
regions of the P protein. Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence assays
using deletion mutants of the unique C-terminus of the CDV-P protein revealed
that all MAbs recognized a central short region (aa 233-303) of the CDV-P
protein. In addition, linear and conformational epitopes have been determined,
and at least four antigenic sites exist in the P protein central region.
Furthermore, four of the MAbs were found to react with the P protein of recent
Japanese field isolates but not with that of the older CDV strains, including a
vaccine strain. Thus, these MAbs could be clinically useful for quick diagnosis
during the CDV outbreaks.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.2009.00176.x 
PMID: 19954454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2075. Nat Methods. 2010 Jan;7(1):61-6. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.1403. Epub 2009 Nov 29.

Nongenetic method for purifying stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes.

Hattori F(1), Chen H, Yamashita H, Tohyama S, Satoh YS, Yuasa S, Li W, Yamakawa
H, Tanaka T, Onitsuka T, Shimoji K, Ohno Y, Egashira T, Kaneda R, Murata M,
Hidaka K, Morisaki T, Sasaki E, Suzuki T, Sano M, Makino S, Oikawa S, Fukuda K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Regenerative Medicine and Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics, Keio
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    Nat Methods. 2010 Jan;7(1):40-2.

Several applications of pluripotent stem cell (PSC)-derived cardiomyocytes
require elimination of undifferentiated cells. A major limitation for
cardiomyocyte purification is the lack of easy and specific cell marking
techniques. We found that a fluorescent dye that labels mitochondria,
tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester perchlorate, could be used to selectively mark 
embryonic and neonatal rat cardiomyocytes, as well as mouse, marmoset and human
PSC-derived cardiomyocytes, and that the cells could subsequently be enriched
(>99% purity) by fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Purified cardiomyocytes
transplanted into testes did not induce teratoma formation. Moreover, aggregate
formation of PSC-derived cardiomyocytes through homophilic cell-cell adhesion
improved their survival in the immunodeficient mouse heart. Our approaches will
aid in the future success of using PSC-derived cardiomyocytes for basic and
clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1038/nmeth.1403 
PMID: 19946277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

