

2076. J Exp Biol. 2009 Dec;212(Pt 24):4040-55. doi: 10.1242/jeb.029983.

The morphology of the masticatory apparatus facilitates muscle force production
at wide jaw gapes in tree-gouging common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Eng CM(1), Ward SR, Vinyard CJ, Taylor AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California, San Diego, CA
92121, USA. cmeng@fas.harvard.edu

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) generate wide jaw gapes when gouging trees 
with their anterior teeth to elicit tree exudate flow. Closely related cotton-top
tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) do not gouge trees but share similar diets including 
exudates. Maximizing jaw opening theoretically compromises the bite forces that
marmosets can generate during gouging. To investigate how jaw-muscle architecture
and craniofacial position impact muscle performance during gouging, we combine
skull and jaw-muscle architectural features to model muscle force production
across a range of jaw gapes in these two species. We incorporate joint mechanics,
resting sarcomere length and muscle architecture estimates from the masseter and 
temporalis to model muscle excursion, sarcomere length and relative tension as a 
function of joint angle. Muscle excursion from occlusion to an estimated maximum 
functional gape of 55 deg. was smaller in all regions of the masseter and
temporalis of C. jacchus compared with S. oedipus except the posterior
temporalis. As a consequence of reduced muscle excursion distributed over more
sarcomeres in series (i.e. longer fibers), sarcomere length operating ranges are 
smaller in C. jacchus jaw muscles across this range of gapes. This configuration 
allows C. jacchus to act on a more favorable portion of the length-tension curve 
at larger gapes and thereby generate relatively greater tension in these muscles 
compared with S. oedipus. Our results suggest that biting performance during tree
gouging in common marmosets is improved by a musculoskeletal configuration that
reduces muscle stretch at wide gapes while simultaneously facilitating
comparatively large muscle forces at the extremes of jaw opening.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.029983 
PMCID: PMC4075048
PMID: 19946083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2077. J Immunol Methods. 2010 Jan 31;352(1-2):59-70. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2009.11.008.
Epub 2009 Nov 18.

Propagation and characterisation of dendritic cells from G-CSF mobilised
peripheral blood monocytes and stem cells in common marmoset monkeys.

Prasad S(1), Kireta S, Leedham E, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Immunology Laboratory and Department of Medicine, University
of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Campus, 28 Woodville Road, Woodville,
SA 5011, Australia.

The common marmoset is a small New World Primate that has been used as an
immunological model for a number of human diseases. Dendritic cells (DC) have not
been extensively characterised in this species and in particular protocols to
derive DC from living donors without the need for animal sacrifice are presently 
lacking. This study establishes new protocols to generate substantial numbers of 
marmoset DC for use in cell therapy studies. Recombinant human G-CSF was used to 
mobilise peripheral blood monocytes and CD34(+) stem cells in sufficient numbers 
for large scale in-vitro DC propagation using cytokine conditioning including
IL-4, GM-CSF, FLT3-L, stem cell factor and thrombopoietin. Marmoset DC exhibited 
morphology similar to human DC, were capable of antigen uptake and presentation
and had moderate allo-stimulatory ability. Monocyte-derived DC had a
maturation-resistant immature phenotype, whereas haematopoietic precursor-derived
DC were semi-mature in phenotype and function. This study confirms the
feasibility of the marmoset as a unique small primate model in which to pursue
DC-based immunotherapy strategies.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2009.11.008 
PMID: 19931270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

