

2077. J Immunol Methods. 2010 Jan 31;352(1-2):59-70. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2009.11.008.
Epub 2009 Nov 18.

Propagation and characterisation of dendritic cells from G-CSF mobilised
peripheral blood monocytes and stem cells in common marmoset monkeys.

Prasad S(1), Kireta S, Leedham E, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Immunology Laboratory and Department of Medicine, University
of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Campus, 28 Woodville Road, Woodville,
SA 5011, Australia.

The common marmoset is a small New World Primate that has been used as an
immunological model for a number of human diseases. Dendritic cells (DC) have not
been extensively characterised in this species and in particular protocols to
derive DC from living donors without the need for animal sacrifice are presently 
lacking. This study establishes new protocols to generate substantial numbers of 
marmoset DC for use in cell therapy studies. Recombinant human G-CSF was used to 
mobilise peripheral blood monocytes and CD34(+) stem cells in sufficient numbers 
for large scale in-vitro DC propagation using cytokine conditioning including
IL-4, GM-CSF, FLT3-L, stem cell factor and thrombopoietin. Marmoset DC exhibited 
morphology similar to human DC, were capable of antigen uptake and presentation
and had moderate allo-stimulatory ability. Monocyte-derived DC had a
maturation-resistant immature phenotype, whereas haematopoietic precursor-derived
DC were semi-mature in phenotype and function. This study confirms the
feasibility of the marmoset as a unique small primate model in which to pursue
DC-based immunotherapy strategies.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2009.11.008 
PMID: 19931270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2078. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2010 Apr;141(4):583-93. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.21178.

Trabecular bone structure in the mandibular condyles of gouging and nongouging
platyrrhine primates.

Ryan TM(1), Colbert M, Ketcham RA, Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology and Center for Quantitative Imaging, Pennsylvania
State University, University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA. tmr21@psu.edu

The relationship between mandibular form and biomechanical function is a topic of
significant interest to morphologists and paleontologists alike. Several previous
studies have examined the morphology of the mandible in gouging and nongouging
primates as a means of understanding the anatomical correlates of this feeding
behavior. The goal of the current study was to quantify the trabecular bone
structure of the mandibular condyle of gouging and nongouging primates to assess 
the functional morphology of the jaw in these animals. High-resolution computed
tomography scan data were collected from the mandibles of five adult common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), saddle-back tamarins (Saguinus fuscicollis), and 
squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus), respectively, and various three-dimensional 
morphometric parameters were measured from the condylar trabecular bone. No
significant differences were found among the taxa for most trabecular bone
structural features. Importantly, no mechanically significant parameters, such as
bone volume fraction and degree of anisotropy, were found to vary significantly
between gouging and nongouging primates. The lack of significant differences in
mechanically relevant structural parameters among these three platyrrhine taxa
may suggest that gouging as a habitual dietary behavior does not involve
significantly higher loads on the mandibular condyle than other masticatory
behaviors. Alternatively, the similarities in trabecular architecture across
these three taxa may indicate that trabecular bone is relatively unimportant
mechanically in the condyle of these primates and therefore is functionally
uninformative.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.21178 
PMID: 19918988  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

