

2079. Cereb Cortex. 2010 Jul;20(7):1668-75. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhp236. Epub 2009 Nov
10.

Opposing effects of 5,7-DHT infusions into the orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala 
on flexible responding.

Man MS(1), Dalley JW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.

Central serotonin is implicated in a variety of emotional and behavioral control 
processes. Serotonin depletion can lead to exaggerated aversive processing and
deficient response inhibition, effects that have been linked to serotonin's
actions in the amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), respectively. However, a 
direct comparison of serotonin manipulations within the OFC and amygdala in the
same experimental context has not been undertaken. This study compared the
effects of infusing the serotonin neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the
OFC and amygdala of marmosets performing an appetitive test of response
inhibition. Marmosets had to learn to inhibit a prepotent response tendency to
choose a box containing high-incentive food and instead choose a box containing
low-incentive food, to obtain reward. OFC infusions caused long-lasting
reductions in serotonin tissue levels, as revealed at postmortem, and exaggerated
prepotent responses. In contrast, the significantly reduced prepotent responses
following amygdala infusions occurred at a time when serotonin tissue levels had 
undergone considerable recovery, but there remained residual reductions in
extracellular serotonin, in vivo. These opposing behavioral effects of serotonin 
manipulations in the same experimental context may be understood in terms of the 
top-down regulatory control of the amygdala by the OFC.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhp236 
PMID: 19903764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2080. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2010 Jan;298(1):R70-8. doi:
10.1152/ajpregu.00193.2009. Epub 2009 Nov 4.

Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone release from hypothalamic explants of
male marmoset monkeys compared with male rats.

Woller MJ(1), Tannenbaum PL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Eshelman BD, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Sciences, Univ. of Wisconsin-Whitewater, Whitewater, WI 53190-1790,
USA. wollerm@uww.edu

The present study was conducted to quantify in vitro gonadotropin-releasing
hormone (GnRH) release parameters in the male marmoset. We established primary
cultures of marmoset hypothalamic tissues for approximately 2 days (marmosets) to
assess GnRH release profiles in vitro in hypothalamic explants from testis-intact
and gonadectomized males. Pulsatile GnRH release profiles were readily
demonstrated from in vitro hypothalamic explants isolated from adult male
marmoset monkeys. Gonadectomy of male marmosets resulted in elevated mean GnRH
and pulse amplitude from hypothalamic explants on the 1st day of culture (day 0).
GnRH pulse amplitude increased by day 2 in approximately 67% of hypothalamic
explants from testis-intact marmosets, suggesting release from an endogenous
regulator of GnRH. We also measured GnRH release profiles in vitro in
hypothalamic explants from testis-intact and gonadectomized rats. Male rats
showed no changes in any concentration or frequency release parameters for GnRH
following gonadectomy or during successive days in culture. The present study
represents a unique examination of GnRH release from male marmoset monkey
hypothalamic tissue and compares release dynamics directly with those obtained
from male rat, suggesting a species difference in feedback regulation of GnRH
release.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.00193.2009 
PMCID: PMC2806204
PMID: 19889867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

