

2080. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2010 Jan;298(1):R70-8. doi:
10.1152/ajpregu.00193.2009. Epub 2009 Nov 4.

Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone release from hypothalamic explants of
male marmoset monkeys compared with male rats.

Woller MJ(1), Tannenbaum PL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Eshelman BD, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Sciences, Univ. of Wisconsin-Whitewater, Whitewater, WI 53190-1790,
USA. wollerm@uww.edu

The present study was conducted to quantify in vitro gonadotropin-releasing
hormone (GnRH) release parameters in the male marmoset. We established primary
cultures of marmoset hypothalamic tissues for approximately 2 days (marmosets) to
assess GnRH release profiles in vitro in hypothalamic explants from testis-intact
and gonadectomized males. Pulsatile GnRH release profiles were readily
demonstrated from in vitro hypothalamic explants isolated from adult male
marmoset monkeys. Gonadectomy of male marmosets resulted in elevated mean GnRH
and pulse amplitude from hypothalamic explants on the 1st day of culture (day 0).
GnRH pulse amplitude increased by day 2 in approximately 67% of hypothalamic
explants from testis-intact marmosets, suggesting release from an endogenous
regulator of GnRH. We also measured GnRH release profiles in vitro in
hypothalamic explants from testis-intact and gonadectomized rats. Male rats
showed no changes in any concentration or frequency release parameters for GnRH
following gonadectomy or during successive days in culture. The present study
represents a unique examination of GnRH release from male marmoset monkey
hypothalamic tissue and compares release dynamics directly with those obtained
from male rat, suggesting a species difference in feedback regulation of GnRH
release.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.00193.2009 
PMCID: PMC2806204
PMID: 19889867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2081. Anim Behav. 2009 Nov;78(5):1195-1203.

Motor planning for vocal production in common marmosets.

Miller CT(1), Eliades SJ, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine.

The vocal motor plan is one of the most fundamental and poorly understood
elements of primate vocal production. Here we tested whether a single vocal motor
plan comprises the full length of a vocalization. We hypothesized that if a
single motor plan was determined at vocal onset, the acoustic features early in
the call should be predictive of the subsequent call structure. Analyses were
performed on two classes of features in marmoset phee calls: continuous and
discrete. We first generated correlation matrices of all the continuous features 
of phee calls. Results showed that the start frequency of a phee's first pulse
significantly correlated with all subsequent spectral features. Moreover,
significant correlations were evident within the spectral features as well as
within the temporal features, but there was little relationship between these
measures. Using a discrete feature, 'the number of pulses in the phee call', a
discriminant function was able to correctly classify the number of pulses in the 
calls well above chance based solely on the acoustic structure of the call's
first pulse. Together, these data suggest that a vocal motor plan for the
complete call structure is established at call onset. These findings provide a
key insight into the mechanisms underlying vocal production in nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2009.07.038 
PMCID: PMC3755634
PMID: 23997242 

