

2082. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2009;125(4):253-9. doi: 10.1159/000235930. Epub 2009 Oct
27.

A non-human primate BAC resource to study interchromosomal segmental
duplications.

Kirsch S(1), Hodler C, Schempp W.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Segmental duplications (SDs) are involved in the reshaping and evolutionary
development of primate genome architecture. Their intrinsic property to promote
genomic instability facilitates genome rearrangements, thereby contributing to
karyotype diversity in primates. However, comparative analyses of SDs based on
whole-genome shotgun assemblies of primate genomes may lead to a distorted view
of their evolutionary dynamics as this method will incorrectly assemble or simply
not represent these regions. Therefore high-quality sequences of chromosomally
assigned SDs are indispensable for unraveling the amplification and dispersal
pattern of SDs during primate evolution. Here, we use an updated version of the
ancestral duplicon state of the non-palindromic SDs of all 4 human Y-chromosome
euchromatin/heterochromatin transition regions to perform a survey of duplicons
genome-wide across 7 primate species. By adjusting experimental conditions to the
mean nucleotide sequence divergence to human we identified 11,075 BAC clones
carrying primate orthologs or paralogs of human Y chromosome-derived duplicons.
Preliminary results indicate lineage-specific amplification of duplicons in
prosimians and gibbons. This BAC-based framework represents the first complete
set of a defined number of duplicons over 60 million years of primate evolution. 
Comparative sequence analysis of this genetic resource can contribute to our
deeper understanding of the impact of segmental duplications on primate genome
evolution.

(c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000235930 
PMID: 19864887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2083. Magn Reson Med. 2009 Dec;62(6):1510-22. doi: 10.1002/mrm.22135.

Magnetic susceptibility mapping of brain tissue in vivo using MRI phase data.

Shmueli K(1), de Zwart JA, van Gelderen P, Li TQ, Dodd SJ, Duyn JH.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced MRI Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging, National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1065, USA. shmuelik@mail.nih.gov

Phase images in susceptibility-weighted MRI of brain provide excellent contrast. 
However, the phase is affected by tissue geometry and orientation relative to the
main magnetic field (B(0)), and phase changes extend beyond areas of altered
susceptibility. Magnetic susceptibility, on the other hand, is an intrinsic
tissue property, closely reflecting tissue composition. Therefore, recently
developed inverse Fourier-based methods were applied to calculate susceptibility 
maps from high-resolution phase images acquired at a single orientation at 7 T in
the human brain (in vivo and fixed) and at 11.7 T in fixed marmoset brain. In
susceptibility images, the contrast of cortical layers was more consistent than
in phase images and was independent of the structures' orientation relative to
B(0). The contrast of iron-rich deep-brain structures (red nucleus and substantia
nigra) in susceptibility images agreed more closely with iron-dominated R(2) (*) 
images than the phase image contrast, which extended outside the structures. The 
mean susceptibility in these regions was significantly correlated with their
estimated iron content. Susceptibility maps calculated using this method overcome
the orientation-dependence and non-locality of phase image contrast and seem to
reflect underlying tissue composition. Susceptibility images should be easier to 
interpret than phase images and could improve our understanding of the sources of
susceptibility contrast.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.22135 
PMCID: PMC4275127
PMID: 19859937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

