

2083. Magn Reson Med. 2009 Dec;62(6):1510-22. doi: 10.1002/mrm.22135.

Magnetic susceptibility mapping of brain tissue in vivo using MRI phase data.

Shmueli K(1), de Zwart JA, van Gelderen P, Li TQ, Dodd SJ, Duyn JH.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced MRI Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging, National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1065, USA. shmuelik@mail.nih.gov

Phase images in susceptibility-weighted MRI of brain provide excellent contrast. 
However, the phase is affected by tissue geometry and orientation relative to the
main magnetic field (B(0)), and phase changes extend beyond areas of altered
susceptibility. Magnetic susceptibility, on the other hand, is an intrinsic
tissue property, closely reflecting tissue composition. Therefore, recently
developed inverse Fourier-based methods were applied to calculate susceptibility 
maps from high-resolution phase images acquired at a single orientation at 7 T in
the human brain (in vivo and fixed) and at 11.7 T in fixed marmoset brain. In
susceptibility images, the contrast of cortical layers was more consistent than
in phase images and was independent of the structures' orientation relative to
B(0). The contrast of iron-rich deep-brain structures (red nucleus and substantia
nigra) in susceptibility images agreed more closely with iron-dominated R(2) (*) 
images than the phase image contrast, which extended outside the structures. The 
mean susceptibility in these regions was significantly correlated with their
estimated iron content. Susceptibility maps calculated using this method overcome
the orientation-dependence and non-locality of phase image contrast and seem to
reflect underlying tissue composition. Susceptibility images should be easier to 
interpret than phase images and could improve our understanding of the sources of
susceptibility contrast.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.22135 
PMCID: PMC4275127
PMID: 19859937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2084. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2010 Apr 1;166(2):307-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2009.10.008. 
Epub 2009 Oct 23.

Maternal androgen levels during pregnancy are associated with early-life growth
in Geoffroy's marmosets, Callithrix geoffroyi.

Smith AS(1), Birnie AK, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Center, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA. asmith@neuro.fsu.edu

Fetal development is a critical period of physical development, and factors in
the intrauterine environment can cause lasting effects on the growth and
development of offspring. There is little research evaluating organizational
effects of early androgen exposure of endogenous maternal origins on the prenatal
and postnatal growth of offspring. We evaluated the association between maternal 
androgen levels during gestation and pre- and postnatal growth of offspring.
Maternal androgen levels in marmoset females were measured using enzyme
immunoassays of urine samples acquired during 18 pregnancies. Somatic
measurements of the resulting 25 viable offspring were taken on postnatal days
(PND) 2, 30, 60, 120, 180, 240, and 300. Maternal androgen levels during the
first trimester were negatively associated with weight, body length, and several 
girth measurements (i.e., torso, head, chest, and arm circumference) of offspring
on PND 2. First trimester maternal androgen was also negatively associated with
physical growth during early and late infancy but seemed to be positively
associated with a rebound in juvenile growth. Exposure to maternal androgen
during early gestation led to both a reduction in birth weight and postnatal
catch-up for both males and females, equally. Fetal growth retardation and the
reprogramming of metabolic tissues by exposure to prenatal androgen could be
mediating factors of suppressed postnatal growth.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2009.10.008 
PMCID: PMC2834851
PMID: 19854190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

