

2084. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2010 Apr 1;166(2):307-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2009.10.008. 
Epub 2009 Oct 23.

Maternal androgen levels during pregnancy are associated with early-life growth
in Geoffroy's marmosets, Callithrix geoffroyi.

Smith AS(1), Birnie AK, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Center, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA. asmith@neuro.fsu.edu

Fetal development is a critical period of physical development, and factors in
the intrauterine environment can cause lasting effects on the growth and
development of offspring. There is little research evaluating organizational
effects of early androgen exposure of endogenous maternal origins on the prenatal
and postnatal growth of offspring. We evaluated the association between maternal 
androgen levels during gestation and pre- and postnatal growth of offspring.
Maternal androgen levels in marmoset females were measured using enzyme
immunoassays of urine samples acquired during 18 pregnancies. Somatic
measurements of the resulting 25 viable offspring were taken on postnatal days
(PND) 2, 30, 60, 120, 180, 240, and 300. Maternal androgen levels during the
first trimester were negatively associated with weight, body length, and several 
girth measurements (i.e., torso, head, chest, and arm circumference) of offspring
on PND 2. First trimester maternal androgen was also negatively associated with
physical growth during early and late infancy but seemed to be positively
associated with a rebound in juvenile growth. Exposure to maternal androgen
during early gestation led to both a reduction in birth weight and postnatal
catch-up for both males and females, equally. Fetal growth retardation and the
reprogramming of metabolic tissues by exposure to prenatal androgen could be
mediating factors of suppressed postnatal growth.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2009.10.008 
PMCID: PMC2834851
PMID: 19854190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2085. Chem Biol Interact. 2010 Jan 5;183(1):67-78. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2009.10.007.

Comparative study of the oxidation of propranolol enantiomers in hepatic and
small intestinal microsomes from cynomolgus and marmoset monkeys.

Shimizudani T(1), Nagaoka K, Hanioka N, Yamano S, Narimatsu S.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama
University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.

Oxidative metabolism of propranolol (PL) enantiomers (R-PL and S-PL) to
4-hydroxypropranolol (4-OH-PL), 5-OH-PL and N-deisopropylpropranolol (NDP) was
examined in hepatic microsomes from cynomolgus and marmoset monkeys and in small 
intestinal microsomes from monkeys and humans. In hepatic microsomes, levels of
oxidation activities were similar between the two monkey species, and substrate
enantioselectivity (R-PL<S-PL) was observed in the formation of 5-OH-PL and/or
NDP. Kinetic experiments revealed that the formation of all metabolites was
biphasic in cynomolgus monkeys, whereas only the formation of NDP was biphasic in
marmosets. Inhibition experiments employing human CYP antibodies and chemical
inhibitors suggested that mainly CYP2D enzymes and partially CYP1A and 2C enzymes
are involved in the oxidation of PL in both monkey liver microsomes. In small
intestinal microsomes, activity levels were much higher in cynomolgus monkeys
than in marmosets and humans and reversed substrate enantioselectivity
(R-PL>S-PL) was seen in the formation of NDP in cynomolgus monkeys and humans and
in the formation of 5-OH-PL in marmosets. The formation of the three metabolites 
in cynomolgus monkeys and the formation of NDP in marmosets were biphasic, while 
the formation of 4-OH-PL in humans was monophasic. From the inhibition
experiments using CYP antibodies, CYP2C9 and 2C19 were thought to be involved as 
N-deisopropylases and CYP2D6 and 3A4 as 4-hydroxylases in human small intestine. 
Furthermore, CYP1A, 2C and 3A enzymes could be involved in cynomolgus monkeys and
CYP2C and 3A enzymes in marmosets. These results indicate that the oxidative
profile of PL in hepatic and small intestinal microsomes differ considerably
among cynomolgus monkeys, marmosets and humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2009.10.007 
PMID: 19853591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

