

2086. Exp Neurol. 2010 Jan;221(1):79-85. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.10.004. Epub
2009 Oct 13.

Continuous rotigotine administration reduces dyskinesia resulting from pulsatile 
treatment with rotigotine or L-DOPA in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Stockwell KA(1), Scheller DK, Smith LA, Rose S, Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

We previously showed that continuous infusion of rotigotine resulted in less
dyskinesia than repeated pulsatile rotigotine administration or repeated oral
administration of L-DOPA in MPTP-treated marmosets. Now we investigate whether
continuous rotigotine delivery modifies established dyskinesia induced by prior
exposure to repeated pulsatile administration of L-DOPA or rotigotine in
MPTP-treated common marmosets. Repeated oral administration of L-DOPA or
subcutaneous bolus administration of rotigotine over 28 days improved motor
deficits but resulted in the onset of dyskinesia of moderate intensity. When
these animals were switched to a 28-day continuous infusion of rotigotine, the
reversal of motor disability was maintained. In those animals initially treated
with L-DOPA, there was a small reduction in dyskinesia intensity but a
significant reduction in the duration of dyskinesia. However, in animals
initially treated with repeated bolus administration of rotigotine, dyskinesia
intensity was significantly reduced. Initial treatment with a continuous infusion
of rotigotine for 28 days reversed motor disability and resulted in a low
incidence of dyskinesia. On switching to repeated oral administration of L-DOPA, 
the improvement in motor disability was maintained but the propensity of L-DOPA
to provoke dyskinesia was not affected. In addition, while the continuous
delivery of rotigotine prevented the expression of dyskinesia, the previously
demonstrated ability of dopamine agonists to prime for dyskinesia could not be
avoided. These data suggest that dyskinesia induced by pulsatile drug treatment
may be improved by switching to continuous rotigotine delivery. In addition,
while continuous delivery of rotigotine may prime for dyskinesia, it does not
lead to its expression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.10.004 
PMID: 19833125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2087. J Comp Neurol. 2009 Dec 10;517(5):655-69. doi: 10.1002/cne.22183.

Synaptic inputs onto small bistratified (blue-ON/yellow-OFF) ganglion cells in
marmoset retina.

Percival KA(1), Jusuf PR, Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

The inner plexiform layer of the retina contains functional subdivisions, which
segregate ON and OFF type light responses. Here, we studied quantitatively the ON
and OFF synaptic input to small bistratified (blue-ON/yellow-OFF) ganglion cells 
in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Small bistratified cells display an extensive 
inner dendritic tier that receives blue-ON input from short-wavelength-sensitive 
(S) cones via blue cone bipolar cells. The outer dendritic tier is sparse and is 
thought to receive yellow-OFF input from medium (M)- and long
(L)-wavelength-sensitive cones via OFF diffuse bipolar cells. In total, 14 small 
bistratified cells from different eccentricities were analyzed. The cells were
retrogradely labeled from the koniocellular layers of the lateral geniculate
nucleus and subsequently photofilled. Retinal preparations were processed with
antibodies against the C-terminal binding protein 2, the AMPA receptor subunit
GluR4, and/or gephyrin to identify bipolar and/or amacrine input. The results
show that the synaptic input is evenly distributed across the dendritic tree,
with a density similar to that reported previously for other ganglion cell types.
The population of cells showed a consistent pattern, where bipolar input to the
inner tier is about fourfold greater than bipolar input to the outer tier. This
structural asymmetry of bipolar input may help to balance the weight of cone
signals from the sparse S cone array against inputs from the much denser M/L cone
array.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22183 
PMID: 19830807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

