

2089. Eur J Neurosci. 2009 Oct;30(8):1517-26. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2009.06939.x.
Epub 2009 Oct 12.

Segregation of short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cone signals in the macaque dorsal 
lateral geniculate nucleus.

Roy S(1), Jayakumar J, Martin PR, Dreher B, Saalmann YB, Hu D, Vidyasagar TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry & Vision Sciences, University of Melbourne, Carlton,
Vic. 3053, Australia.

An important problem in the study of the mammalian visual system is whether
functionally different retinal ganglion cell types are anatomically segregated
further up along the central visual pathway. It was previously demonstrated that,
in a New World diurnal monkey (marmoset), the neurones carrying signals from the 
short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cones [blue-yellow (B/Y)-opponent cells] are
predominantly located in the koniocellular layers of the dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN), whereas the red-green (R/G)-opponent cells carrying
signals from the medium- and long-wavelength-sensitive cones are segregated in
the parvocellular layers. Here, we used extracellular single-unit recordings
followed by histological reconstruction to investigate the distribution of
color-selective cells in the LGN of the macaque, an Old World diurnal monkey.
Cells were classified using cone-isolating stimuli to identify their cone inputs.
Our results indicate that the majority of cells carrying signals from S-cones are
located either in the koniocellular layers or in the 'koniocellular bridges' that
fully or partially span the parvocellular layers. By contrast, the R/G-opponent
cells are located in the parvocellular layers. We conclude that anatomical
segregation of B/Y- and R/G-opponent afferent signals for color vision is common 
to the LGNs of New World and Old World diurnal monkeys.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2009.06939.x 
PMCID: PMC2777259
PMID: 19821840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2090. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2010 Jan;117(1):55-67. doi: 10.1007/s00702-009-0323-9. 
Epub 2009 Oct 7.

The dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonist aplindore improves motor deficits in
MPTP-treated common marmosets alone and combined with L-dopa.

Jackson MJ(1), Andree TH, Hansard M, Hoffman DC, Hurtt MR, Kehne JH, Pitler TA,
Smith LA, Stack G, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)School of Health and Biomedical Sciences, Neurodegenerative Diseases Research 
Centre, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

Dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD) using L-dopa is
invariably associated with a loss of drug efficacy ("wearing off") and the onset 
of dyskinesia. The use of dopamine receptor partial agonists might improve
therapeutic benefit without increased dyskinesia expression but may antagonise
the effects of L-dopa. We now examine the effects of the novel high affinity,
dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonist, aplindore alone and in combination with
L-dopa in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common 
marmoset. In non-dyskinetic MPTP treated animals, aplindore (0.05-1.0 mg/kg p.o.)
produced a dose-dependent reversal of motor disability and an increase in
locomotor activity that was maximal at doses of 0.2 mg/kg and above. In animals
previously exposed to L: -dopa to induce dyskinesia, escalating and repeated
dosing of aplindore (0.05-0.5 mg/kg p.o.) produced a sustained, dose-related
improvement in motor disability and an increase in locomotor activity. The
effects were maximal at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg and above and not different from
those produced by L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o.). Aplindore
administration also led to dose-dependent expression of dyskinesia but at 0.1
mg/kg, this was significantly less intense than that produced by L-dopa.
Administration of aplindore (1.0 mg/kg p.o.) in combination with L-dopa (2.5
mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o.) did not inhibit the reversal of motor
deficits but improved motor disability and increased both locomotor activity and 
dyskinesia expression equivalent to that produced by L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg plus
carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o.). These data suggest that dopamine receptor partial
agonists would be effective in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and would not
inhibit the beneficial actions of L-dopa.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-009-0323-9 
PMID: 19809864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

