

2090. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2010 Jan;117(1):55-67. doi: 10.1007/s00702-009-0323-9. 
Epub 2009 Oct 7.

The dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonist aplindore improves motor deficits in
MPTP-treated common marmosets alone and combined with L-dopa.

Jackson MJ(1), Andree TH, Hansard M, Hoffman DC, Hurtt MR, Kehne JH, Pitler TA,
Smith LA, Stack G, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)School of Health and Biomedical Sciences, Neurodegenerative Diseases Research 
Centre, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

Dopamine replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD) using L-dopa is
invariably associated with a loss of drug efficacy ("wearing off") and the onset 
of dyskinesia. The use of dopamine receptor partial agonists might improve
therapeutic benefit without increased dyskinesia expression but may antagonise
the effects of L-dopa. We now examine the effects of the novel high affinity,
dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonist, aplindore alone and in combination with
L-dopa in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common 
marmoset. In non-dyskinetic MPTP treated animals, aplindore (0.05-1.0 mg/kg p.o.)
produced a dose-dependent reversal of motor disability and an increase in
locomotor activity that was maximal at doses of 0.2 mg/kg and above. In animals
previously exposed to L: -dopa to induce dyskinesia, escalating and repeated
dosing of aplindore (0.05-0.5 mg/kg p.o.) produced a sustained, dose-related
improvement in motor disability and an increase in locomotor activity. The
effects were maximal at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg and above and not different from
those produced by L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o.). Aplindore
administration also led to dose-dependent expression of dyskinesia but at 0.1
mg/kg, this was significantly less intense than that produced by L-dopa.
Administration of aplindore (1.0 mg/kg p.o.) in combination with L-dopa (2.5
mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o.) did not inhibit the reversal of motor
deficits but improved motor disability and increased both locomotor activity and 
dyskinesia expression equivalent to that produced by L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg plus
carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg p.o.). These data suggest that dopamine receptor partial
agonists would be effective in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and would not
inhibit the beneficial actions of L-dopa.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-009-0323-9 
PMID: 19809864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2091. Neurosci Res. 2010 Jan;66(1):62-85. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.09.1709. Epub 2009
Oct 4.

Gene expression profiles in the common marmoset brain determined using a newly
developed common marmoset-specific DNA microarray.

Fukuoka T(1), Sumida K, Yamada T, Higuchi C, Nakagaki K, Nakamura K, Kohsaka S,
Saito K, Oeda K.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-0022, Japan.
toshifumi-fukuoka@ds-pharma.co.jp

To facilitate common marmoset brain research, we produced a DNA microarray with
7557 probe sets derived from the common marmoset brain. Gene expression profiles 
in the frontal lobe, hippocampus, cerebellum and amygdaloid nucleus were then
analyzed and the top 100 probe sets expressed in each structure were compared.
The three lists for the frontal lobe, hippocampus and amygdaloid nucleus were
very similar but the probe sets for the cerebellum demonstrated specific
differences. Some of the genes specifically expressed in cerebellum were analyzed
by real-time quantitative PCR to verify the DNA microarray results. Of examined
genes, 5 showed extremely strong expression in cerebellum in comparison with the 
other structures. The results of real-time quantitative PCR were well consistent 
with the microarray findings, validating our newly developed DNA microarray as a 
useful tool for brain research with the common marmoset.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.09.1709 
PMID: 19808062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

