

2091. Neurosci Res. 2010 Jan;66(1):62-85. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.09.1709. Epub 2009
Oct 4.

Gene expression profiles in the common marmoset brain determined using a newly
developed common marmoset-specific DNA microarray.

Fukuoka T(1), Sumida K, Yamada T, Higuchi C, Nakagaki K, Nakamura K, Kohsaka S,
Saito K, Oeda K.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-0022, Japan.
toshifumi-fukuoka@ds-pharma.co.jp

To facilitate common marmoset brain research, we produced a DNA microarray with
7557 probe sets derived from the common marmoset brain. Gene expression profiles 
in the frontal lobe, hippocampus, cerebellum and amygdaloid nucleus were then
analyzed and the top 100 probe sets expressed in each structure were compared.
The three lists for the frontal lobe, hippocampus and amygdaloid nucleus were
very similar but the probe sets for the cerebellum demonstrated specific
differences. Some of the genes specifically expressed in cerebellum were analyzed
by real-time quantitative PCR to verify the DNA microarray results. Of examined
genes, 5 showed extremely strong expression in cerebellum in comparison with the 
other structures. The results of real-time quantitative PCR were well consistent 
with the microarray findings, validating our newly developed DNA microarray as a 
useful tool for brain research with the common marmoset.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.09.1709 
PMID: 19808062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2092. Ann Neurol. 2009 Sep;66(3):343-54. doi: 10.1002/ana.21745.

Human neural stem cells ameliorate autoimmune encephalomyelitis in non-human
primates.

Pluchino S(1), Gritti A, Blezer E, Amadio S, Brambilla E, Borsellino G, Cossetti 
C, Del Carro U, Comi G, 't Hart B, Vescovi A, Martino G.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.
pluchino.stefano@hsr.it

OBJECTIVE: Transplanted neural stem/precursor cells (NPCs) display peculiar
therapeutic plasticity in vivo. Although the replacement of cells was first
expected as the prime therapeutic mechanism of stem cells in regenerative
medicine, it is now clear that transplanted NPCs simultaneously instruct several 
therapeutic mechanisms, among which replacement of cells might not necessarily
prevail. A comprehensive understanding of the mechanism(s) by which NPCs exert
their therapeutic plasticity is lacking. This study was designed as a preclinical
approach to test the feasibility of human NPC transplantation in an outbreed
nonhuman primate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model
approximating the clinical and complex neuropathological situation of human
multiple sclerosis (MS) more closely than EAE in the standard laboratory rodent.
METHODS: We examined the safety and efficacy of the intravenous (IV) and
intrathecal (IT) administration of human NPCs in common marmosets affected by
human myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein 1-125-induced EAE. Treatment commenced 
upon the occurrence of detectable brain lesions on a 4.7T spectrometer.
RESULTS: EAE marmosets injected IV or IT with NPCs accumulated lower disability
and displayed increased survival, as compared with sham-treated controls.
Transplanted NPCs persisted within the host central nervous system (CNS), but
were also found in draining lymph nodes, for up to 3 months after transplantation
and exhibited remarkable immune regulatory capacity in vitro.
INTERPRETATION: Herein, we provide the first evidence that human CNS stem cells
ameliorate EAE in nonhuman primates without overt side effects. Immune regulation
(rather than neural differentiation) is suggested as the major putative mechanism
by which NPCs ameliorate EAE in vivo. Our findings represent a critical step
toward the clinical use of human NPCs in MS.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.21745 
PMID: 19798728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

