

2095. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2010 Feb;30(2):273-85. doi: 10.1038/jcbfm.2009.209.
Epub 2009 Sep 30.

Permanent or transient chronic ischemic stroke in the non-human primate:
behavioral, neuroimaging, histological, and immunohistochemical investigations.

Bihel E(1), Pro-Sistiaga P, Letourneur A, Toutain J, Saulnier R, Insausti R,
Bernaudin M, Roussel S, Touzani O.

Author information: 
(1)CERVOxy Team, Hypoxia and Cerebrovascular Pathophysiology, CI-NAPS UMR-6232,
CNRS, CEA, Université de Caen, Université Paris Descartes, Caen, France.

Using multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), behavioral, and
immunohistochemical analyses, we examined pathological changes at the acute,
sub-acute, and chronic stages, induced by permanent or temporary ischemia in the 
common marmoset. Animals underwent either permanent (pMCAO) or 3-h transient
(tMCAO) occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO) by the intraluminal thread
approach. MRI scans were performed at 1 h, 8, and 45 days after MCAO.
Sensorimotor deficits were assessed weekly up to 45 days after MCAO.
Immunohistological studies were performed to examine neuronal loss, astrogliosis,
and neurogenesis. Remote lesions were analyzed using retrograde neuronal tracers.
At day 8 (D8), the lesion defined on diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)-MRI and
T2-MRI was significantly larger in pMCAO as compared with that in the tMCAO
group. At D45, the former still displayed abnormal signals in T2-MRI. Post-mortem
analyses revealed widespread neuronal loss and associated astrogliosis to a
greater extent in the pMCAO group. Neurogenesis was increased in both groups in
the vicinity of the lesion. Disconnections between the caudate and the temporal
cortex, and between the parietal cortex and the thalamus, were observed.
Sensorimotor impairments were more severe and long-lasting in pMCAO relative to
tMCAO. The profile of brain damage and functional deficits seen in the marmoset
suggests that this model could be suitable to test therapies against stroke.

DOI: 10.1038/jcbfm.2009.209 
PMCID: PMC2949113
PMID: 19794396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2096. Genet Mol Biol. 2009 Oct;32(4):786-91. doi: 10.1590/S1415-47572009005000069. Epub
2009 Dec 1.

Synteny of human chromosomes 14 and 15 in the platyrrhines (Primates,
Platyrrhini).

Gifalli-Iughetti C(1), Koiffmann CP.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Estudos do Genoma Humano, Departamento de Genética e Biologia
Evolutiva, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP
Brazil.

In order to study the intra- and interspecific variability of the 14/15
association in Platyrrhini, we analyzed 15 species from 13 genera, including
species that had not been described yet. The DNA libraries of human chromosomes
14 and 15 were hybridized to metaphases of Alouatta guariba clamitans, A. caraya,
A. sara, Ateles paniscus chamek, Lagothrix lagothricha, Brachyteles arachnoides, 
Saguinus midas midas, Leontopithecus chrysomelas, Callimico goeldii, Callithrix
sp., Cebus apella, Aotus nigriceps, Cacajao melanocephalus,Chiropotes satanas and
Callicebus caligatus. The 14/15 hybridization pattern was present in 13 species, 
but not in Alouatta sara that showed a 14/15/14 pattern and Aotus nigriceps that 
showed a 15/14/15/14 pattern. In the majority of the species, the HSA 14
homologue retained synteny for the entire chromosome, whereas the HSA 15
homologue displayed fragmented segments. Within primates, the New World monkeys
represent the taxon with the highest variability in chromosome number (2n = 16 to
62). The presence of the HSA 14/15 association in all species and subspecies
studied herein confirms that this association is the ancestral condition for
platyrrhines and that this association has been retained in most platyrrhines,
despite the occurrence of extensive inter- and intrachromosomal rearrangements in
this infraorder of Primates.

DOI: 10.1590/S1415-47572009005000069 
PMCID: PMC3036896
PMID: 21637455 

