

2096. Genet Mol Biol. 2009 Oct;32(4):786-91. doi: 10.1590/S1415-47572009005000069. Epub
2009 Dec 1.

Synteny of human chromosomes 14 and 15 in the platyrrhines (Primates,
Platyrrhini).

Gifalli-Iughetti C(1), Koiffmann CP.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Estudos do Genoma Humano, Departamento de Genética e Biologia
Evolutiva, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP
Brazil.

In order to study the intra- and interspecific variability of the 14/15
association in Platyrrhini, we analyzed 15 species from 13 genera, including
species that had not been described yet. The DNA libraries of human chromosomes
14 and 15 were hybridized to metaphases of Alouatta guariba clamitans, A. caraya,
A. sara, Ateles paniscus chamek, Lagothrix lagothricha, Brachyteles arachnoides, 
Saguinus midas midas, Leontopithecus chrysomelas, Callimico goeldii, Callithrix
sp., Cebus apella, Aotus nigriceps, Cacajao melanocephalus,Chiropotes satanas and
Callicebus caligatus. The 14/15 hybridization pattern was present in 13 species, 
but not in Alouatta sara that showed a 14/15/14 pattern and Aotus nigriceps that 
showed a 15/14/15/14 pattern. In the majority of the species, the HSA 14
homologue retained synteny for the entire chromosome, whereas the HSA 15
homologue displayed fragmented segments. Within primates, the New World monkeys
represent the taxon with the highest variability in chromosome number (2n = 16 to
62). The presence of the HSA 14/15 association in all species and subspecies
studied herein confirms that this association is the ancestral condition for
platyrrhines and that this association has been retained in most platyrrhines,
despite the occurrence of extensive inter- and intrachromosomal rearrangements in
this infraorder of Primates.

DOI: 10.1590/S1415-47572009005000069 
PMCID: PMC3036896
PMID: 21637455 


2097. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2010 Jan;117(1):45-51. doi: 10.1007/s00702-009-0315-9. 
Epub 2009 Sep 22.

Expression of catechol-O-methyltransferase in the brain and periphery of normal
and MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Zeng BY(1), Balfour RH, Jackson MJ, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Biomedical and Health
Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK. b.zeng@kcl.ac.uk

Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibition is widely used to potentiate the
effects of levodopa in Parkinson's disease but the effects of nigral dopaminergic
cell loss and levodopa treatment on COMT activity are not known. The present
study investigated the expression of COMT in the brain and liver of normal common
marmosets, and animals treated with MPTP and those treated with levodopa to
induce dyskinesia. Reverse transcript PCR demonstrated the expression of COMT
mRNA in the liver, cortex and striatum of normal marmosets. Using Western
blotting, the presence of two subunits of COMT protein, membrane bound COMT
(MB-COMT) and soluble COMT (S-COMT), was shown in the liver, cortex and striatum 
of normal marmosets. Quantitative analysis of the MB-COMT and S-COMT subunit
bands showed that there was no significant difference in the density of bands in 
MPTP treated marmosets or those exposed to levodopa compared to normal animals.
COMT immunoreactivity was expressed in many brain regions including the cortex
and striatum. No difference in COMT staining intensity was observed between
normal, MPTP exposed or MPTP plus levodopa treated animals. COMT immunostaining
was present in most striatal neurones and it was occasionally seen in glial
cells. The data from present study demonstrated the expression of COMT mRNA and
protein in the brain of common marmoset contrary to a previous report that it is 
not expressed in this species. COMT activity appears unaffected by loss of the
dopaminergic nigro-striatal pathway and levodopa treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-009-0315-9 
PMID: 19771390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

