

2099. Brain Res Rev. 2009 Dec 11;62(1):1-18. doi: 10.1016/j.brainresrev.2009.09.001.
Epub 2009 Sep 8.

A combined histological and MRI brain atlas of the common marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus.

Newman JD(1), Kenkel WM, Aronoff EC, Bock NA, Zametkin MR, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Unit on Developmental Neuroethology, Laboratory of Comparative Ethology,
Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, 
Poolesville, MD 20837, USA. jdnewman@helix.nih.gov

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is of growing importance for research in
neuroscience and related fields. In the present work, we describe a combined
histological and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) atlas constructed from the
brains of two adult female marmosets. Histological sections were processed from
Nissl staining and digitized to produce an atlas in a large format that
facilitates visualization of structures with significant detail. Naming of
identifiable brain structures was performed utilizing current terminology. The
histological sections and a simplified schematic atlas are available online at
http://udn.nichd.nih.gov/brainatlas_home.html.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresrev.2009.09.001 
PMCID: PMC2787800
PMID: 19744521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2100. Am J Primatol. 2009 Dec;71(12):969-75. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20739.

Placental insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) and its relation to litter size 
in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Rutherford JN(1), Eklund A, Tardif S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Biology, College of Dentistry, University of Illinois at
Chicago, 801 S. Paulina Street, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. ruther4d@uic.edu

The primate placenta produces a wide variety of hormones throughout gestation
that regulate placental function and fetal growth. One such hormone is
insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II), a peptide implicated in cell division,
differentiation, and amino acid transport. IGF-II concentrations were measured in
23 common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) term placentas from twin and triplet
litters in order to determine whether previously described differences in
fetoplacental phenotype such as placental and litter mass and placental surface
area were related to differences in endocrine function. IGF-II was extracted from
frozen tissue samples and measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit
designed for human tissue, which was validated for marmoset placenta. IGF-II
concentrations were not related to placental or litter mass, and twin and triplet
placentas did not differ in total concentration. However, per individual fetus,
triplets were associated with a significant 42% reduction in IGF-II concentration
(P = 0.03), and IGF-II concentration per gram of fetal mass was a third lower in 
triplet litters. The triplet placenta exhibits a global expansion of the surface 
area which was contrasted by a per unit area reduction in IGF-II concentration (r
= -0.75, P = 0.01), a pattern that explains why twin and triplet placentas
overall did not differ in concentration. Per fetus, triplet pregnancies are
associated with relatively less maternal mass, placental mass and microscopic
surface area suggesting that the intrauterine growth of triplets is supported by 
systems that increase the efficiency of nutrient transfer. The finding that
individual triplet fetuses are also associated with significantly lower IGF-II
concentrations is consistent with the view that the marmoset fetoplacental unit
exhibits a flexible pattern of placental allocation and metabolism. Plasticity in
placental endocrine and metabolic function is likely to play an important role in
the ability of the fetus to sense and accommodate the intrauterine environment
and, by extension, the external ecology.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20739 
PMCID: PMC3535070
PMID: 19743442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

