

2100. Am J Primatol. 2009 Dec;71(12):969-75. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20739.

Placental insulin-like growth factor II (IGF-II) and its relation to litter size 
in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Rutherford JN(1), Eklund A, Tardif S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Biology, College of Dentistry, University of Illinois at
Chicago, 801 S. Paulina Street, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. ruther4d@uic.edu

The primate placenta produces a wide variety of hormones throughout gestation
that regulate placental function and fetal growth. One such hormone is
insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II), a peptide implicated in cell division,
differentiation, and amino acid transport. IGF-II concentrations were measured in
23 common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) term placentas from twin and triplet
litters in order to determine whether previously described differences in
fetoplacental phenotype such as placental and litter mass and placental surface
area were related to differences in endocrine function. IGF-II was extracted from
frozen tissue samples and measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit
designed for human tissue, which was validated for marmoset placenta. IGF-II
concentrations were not related to placental or litter mass, and twin and triplet
placentas did not differ in total concentration. However, per individual fetus,
triplets were associated with a significant 42% reduction in IGF-II concentration
(P = 0.03), and IGF-II concentration per gram of fetal mass was a third lower in 
triplet litters. The triplet placenta exhibits a global expansion of the surface 
area which was contrasted by a per unit area reduction in IGF-II concentration (r
= -0.75, P = 0.01), a pattern that explains why twin and triplet placentas
overall did not differ in concentration. Per fetus, triplet pregnancies are
associated with relatively less maternal mass, placental mass and microscopic
surface area suggesting that the intrauterine growth of triplets is supported by 
systems that increase the efficiency of nutrient transfer. The finding that
individual triplet fetuses are also associated with significantly lower IGF-II
concentrations is consistent with the view that the marmoset fetoplacental unit
exhibits a flexible pattern of placental allocation and metabolism. Plasticity in
placental endocrine and metabolic function is likely to play an important role in
the ability of the fetus to sense and accommodate the intrauterine environment
and, by extension, the external ecology.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20739 
PMCID: PMC3535070
PMID: 19743442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2101. J Neurosci. 2009 Sep 9;29(36):11192-202. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1286-09.2009.

Nonlinear spectrotemporal interactions underlying selectivity for complex sounds 
in auditory cortex.

Sadagopan S(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Departments of Neuroscience and
Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.

In the auditory cortex of awake animals, a substantial number of neurons do not
respond to pure tones. These neurons have historically been classified as
"unresponsive" and even been speculated as being nonauditory. We discovered,
however, that many of these neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake 
marmoset monkeys were in fact highly selective for complex sound features. We
then investigated how such selectivity might arise from the tone-tuned inputs
that these neurons likely receive. We found that these non-tone responsive
neurons exhibited nonlinear combination-sensitive responses that require precise 
spectral and temporal combinations of two tone pips. The nonlinear
spectrotemporal maps derived from these neurons were correlated with their
selectivity for complex acoustic features. These non-tone responsive and
nonlinear neurons were commonly encountered at superficial cortical depths in A1.
Our findings demonstrate how temporally and spectrally specific nonlinear
integration of putative tone-tuned inputs might underlie a diverse range of high 
selectivity of A1 neurons in awake animals. We propose that describing A1 neurons
with complex response properties in terms of tone-tuned input channels can
conceptually unify a wide variety of observed neural selectivity to complex
sounds into a lower dimensional description.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1286-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC2757444
PMID: 19741126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

