

2101. J Neurosci. 2009 Sep 9;29(36):11192-202. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1286-09.2009.

Nonlinear spectrotemporal interactions underlying selectivity for complex sounds 
in auditory cortex.

Sadagopan S(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Departments of Neuroscience and
Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.

In the auditory cortex of awake animals, a substantial number of neurons do not
respond to pure tones. These neurons have historically been classified as
"unresponsive" and even been speculated as being nonauditory. We discovered,
however, that many of these neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake 
marmoset monkeys were in fact highly selective for complex sound features. We
then investigated how such selectivity might arise from the tone-tuned inputs
that these neurons likely receive. We found that these non-tone responsive
neurons exhibited nonlinear combination-sensitive responses that require precise 
spectral and temporal combinations of two tone pips. The nonlinear
spectrotemporal maps derived from these neurons were correlated with their
selectivity for complex acoustic features. These non-tone responsive and
nonlinear neurons were commonly encountered at superficial cortical depths in A1.
Our findings demonstrate how temporally and spectrally specific nonlinear
integration of putative tone-tuned inputs might underlie a diverse range of high 
selectivity of A1 neurons in awake animals. We propose that describing A1 neurons
with complex response properties in terms of tone-tuned input channels can
conceptually unify a wide variety of observed neural selectivity to complex
sounds into a lower dimensional description.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1286-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC2757444
PMID: 19741126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2102. Biol Lett. 2010 Feb 23;6(1):36-8. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2009.0591. Epub 2009 Sep 9.

A foraging advantage for dichromatic marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi) at low
light intensity.

Caine NG(1), Osorio D, Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University, San Marcos, CA 92096,
USA.

Most New World monkey species have both dichromatic and trichromatic individuals 
present in the same population. The selective forces acting to maintain the
variation are hotly debated and are relevant to the evolution of the 'routine'
trichromatic colour vision found in catarrhine primates. While trichromats have a
foraging advantage for red food compared with dichromats, visual tasks which
dichromats perform better have received less attention. Here we examine the
effects of light intensity on foraging success among marmosets. We find that
dichromats outperform trichomats when foraging in shade, but not in sun. The
simplest explanation is that dichromats pay more attention to achromatic cues
than trichromats. However, dichromats did not show a preference for foraging in
shade compared with trichromats. Our results reveal several interesting parallels
with a recent study in capuchin monkeys (Cebus capucinus), and suggest that
dichromat advantage for certain tasks contributes to maintenance of the colour
vision polymorphism.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2009.0591 
PMCID: PMC2817255
PMID: 19740895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

