

2102. Biol Lett. 2010 Feb 23;6(1):36-8. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2009.0591. Epub 2009 Sep 9.

A foraging advantage for dichromatic marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi) at low
light intensity.

Caine NG(1), Osorio D, Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University, San Marcos, CA 92096,
USA.

Most New World monkey species have both dichromatic and trichromatic individuals 
present in the same population. The selective forces acting to maintain the
variation are hotly debated and are relevant to the evolution of the 'routine'
trichromatic colour vision found in catarrhine primates. While trichromats have a
foraging advantage for red food compared with dichromats, visual tasks which
dichromats perform better have received less attention. Here we examine the
effects of light intensity on foraging success among marmosets. We find that
dichromats outperform trichomats when foraging in shade, but not in sun. The
simplest explanation is that dichromats pay more attention to achromatic cues
than trichromats. However, dichromats did not show a preference for foraging in
shade compared with trichromats. Our results reveal several interesting parallels
with a recent study in capuchin monkeys (Cebus capucinus), and suggest that
dichromat advantage for certain tasks contributes to maintenance of the colour
vision polymorphism.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2009.0591 
PMCID: PMC2817255
PMID: 19740895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2103. Neurosci Res. 2009 Dec;65(4):384-92. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.08.016. Epub 2009
Sep 6.

Transplantation of dendritic cells promotes functional recovery from spinal cord 
injury in common marmoset.

Yaguchi M(1), Tabuse M, Ohta S, Ohkusu-Tsukada K, Takeuchi T, Yamane J, Katoh H, 
Nakamura M, Matsuzaki Y, Yamada M, Itoh T, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H, Toda M.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Research Group, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo
160-8582, Japan.

We previously reported that implantation of dendritic cells (DCs) into the
injured site activates neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) and promotes
functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) in mice. Working toward
clinical application of DC therapy for SCI, we analyzed whether DCs promote
functional recovery after SCI in a non-human primate, the common marmoset (CM).
CMs are usually born as dizygotic twins. They are thus natural bone marrow and
peripheral blood chimeras due to sharing of the placental circulation between
dizygotic twins, leading to functional immune tolerance. In this study, to
identify adequate CM donor-and-host pairs, mixed leukocyte reaction (MLR) assays 
were performed. Then, CM-DCs were generated from the bone marrow of the twin
selected to be donor and transplanted into the injured site of the spinal cord of
the other twin selected to be host, 7 days after injury. Histological analyses
revealed fewer areas of demyelination around the injured site in DC-treated CMs
than in controls. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that more motor neurons and
corticospinal tracts were preserved after SCI in DC-treated CMs. Motor functions 
were evaluated using three different behavior tests and earlier functional
recovery was observed in DC-treated CMs. These results suggest DC therapy to
possibly be beneficial in primates with SCI and that this treatment has potential
for clinical application.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.08.016 
PMID: 19737583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

