

2103. Neurosci Res. 2009 Dec;65(4):384-92. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.08.016. Epub 2009
Sep 6.

Transplantation of dendritic cells promotes functional recovery from spinal cord 
injury in common marmoset.

Yaguchi M(1), Tabuse M, Ohta S, Ohkusu-Tsukada K, Takeuchi T, Yamane J, Katoh H, 
Nakamura M, Matsuzaki Y, Yamada M, Itoh T, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H, Toda M.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Research Group, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo
160-8582, Japan.

We previously reported that implantation of dendritic cells (DCs) into the
injured site activates neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) and promotes
functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) in mice. Working toward
clinical application of DC therapy for SCI, we analyzed whether DCs promote
functional recovery after SCI in a non-human primate, the common marmoset (CM).
CMs are usually born as dizygotic twins. They are thus natural bone marrow and
peripheral blood chimeras due to sharing of the placental circulation between
dizygotic twins, leading to functional immune tolerance. In this study, to
identify adequate CM donor-and-host pairs, mixed leukocyte reaction (MLR) assays 
were performed. Then, CM-DCs were generated from the bone marrow of the twin
selected to be donor and transplanted into the injured site of the spinal cord of
the other twin selected to be host, 7 days after injury. Histological analyses
revealed fewer areas of demyelination around the injured site in DC-treated CMs
than in controls. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that more motor neurons and
corticospinal tracts were preserved after SCI in DC-treated CMs. Motor functions 
were evaluated using three different behavior tests and earlier functional
recovery was observed in DC-treated CMs. These results suggest DC therapy to
possibly be beneficial in primates with SCI and that this treatment has potential
for clinical application.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.08.016 
PMID: 19737583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2104. J Neurosci Methods. 2009 Dec 15;185(1):15-22. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2009.08.022. Epub 2009 Sep 6.

Visualizing the entire cortical myelination pattern in marmosets with magnetic
resonance imaging.

Bock NA(1), Kocharyan A, Liu JV, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1065, USA. bockn@mcmaster.ca

Myeloarchitecture, the pattern of myelin density across the cerebral cortex, has 
long been visualized in histological sections to identify distinct anatomical
areas of the cortex. In humans, two-dimensional (2D) magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) has been used to visualize myeloarchitecture in select areas of the cortex,
such as the stripe of Gennari in the primary visual cortex and Heschl's gyrus in 
the primary auditory cortex. Here, we investigated the use of MRI contrast based 
on longitudinal relaxation time (T(1)) to visualize myeloarchitecture in vivo
over the entire cortex of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small
non-human primate that is becoming increasingly important in neuroscience and
neurobiology research. Using quantitative T(1) mapping, we found that T(1) at 7T 
in a cortical region with a high myelin content was 15% shorter than T(1) in a
region with a low myelin content. To maximize this T(1) contrast for imaging
cortical myelination patterns, we optimized a magnetization-prepared rapidly
acquired gradient echo (MP-RAGE) sequence. In whole-brain, 3D T(1)-weighted
images made in vivo with the sequence, we identified six major cortical areas
with high myelination and confirmed the results with histological sections
stained for myelin. We also identified several subtle features of
myeloarchitecture, showing the sensitivity of our technique. The ability to image
myeloarchitecture over the entire cortex may prove useful in studies of
longitudinal changes of the topography of the cortex associated with development 
and neuronal plasticity, as well as for guiding and confirming the location of
functional measurements.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2009.08.022 
PMCID: PMC2783340
PMID: 19737577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

