

2107. J Histochem Cytochem. 2009 Dec;57(12):1159-67. doi: 10.1369/jhc.2009.954123. Epub
2009 Sep 3.

A monoclonal antibody selection for immunohistochemical examination of lymphoid
tissues from non-human primates.

Kap YS(1), van Meurs M, van Driel N, Koopman G, Melief MJ, Brok HP, Laman JD, 't 
Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Center, Rijswijk,
The Netherlands.

Non-human primates (NHPs) offer valuable animal models for basic research into
human diseases and for the preclinical validation of new therapeutics. Detailed
in situ examination of the involved cell types using immunohistochemistry is
often hampered by the lack of cross-reactive antibodies (Abs). In the current
study, we have tested a large panel of monoclonal antibodies raised against human
leukocyte differentiation and activation markers for cross-reactivity on
cryosections of lymphoid tissue from six NHP species. In total, we have tested
130 Abs against 69 antigens expressed in tissues from one great ape species
(chimpanzee/Pan troglodytes), two Old World species (rhesus macaque/Macaca
mulatta and cynomolgus macaque/Macaca fascicularis), and three New World species 
(common marmoset/Callithrix jacchus, cotton-top tamarin/Saguinus oedipus, and owl
monkey/Aotus triviogatus). We have found a large panel of cross-reactive Abs: 93 
of 102 (91%) in chimpanzee, 97 of 125 (78%) in rhesus macaque, 70 of 109 (64%) in
cynomolgus macaque, 69 of 116 (60%) in common marmoset, 40 of 81 (49%) in
cotton-top tamarin, and 35 of 80 (44%) in owl monkey. The availability of a
reliable panel of cross-reactive markers is important to gaining further insight 
into immunological processes in disease-affected tissues from NHP species.

DOI: 10.1369/jhc.2009.954123 
PMCID: PMC2778089
PMID: 19729671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2108. Mol Biol Evol. 2009 Dec;26(12):2865-75. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msp197. Epub 2009 Sep
2.

Evolutionary trajectories of primate genes involved in HIV pathogenesis.

Ortiz M(1), Guex N, Patin E, Martin O, Xenarios I, Ciuffi A, Quintana-Murci L,
Telenti A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microbiology, University Hospital Center and University of
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

The current availability of five complete genomes of different primate species
allows the analysis of genetic divergence over the last 40 million years of
evolution. We hypothesized that the interspecies differences observed in
susceptibility to HIV-1 would be influenced by the long-range selective pressures
on host genes associated with HIV-1 pathogenesis. We established a list of human 
genes (n = 140) proposed to be involved in HIV-1 biology and pathogenesis and a
control set of 100 random genes. We retrieved the orthologous genes from the
genome of humans and of four nonhuman primates (Pan troglodytes, Pongo pygmaeus
abeli, Macaca mulatta, and Callithrix jacchus) and analyzed the nucleotide
substitution patterns of this data set using codon-based maximum likelihood
procedures. In addition, we evaluated whether the candidate genes have been
targets of recent positive selection in humans by analyzing HapMap Phase 2
single-nucleotide polymorphisms genotyped in a region centered on each candidate 
gene. A total of 1,064 sequences were used for the analyses. Similar median
K(A)/K(S) values were estimated for the set of genes involved in HIV-1
pathogenesis and for control genes, 0.19 and 0.15, respectively. However, genes
of the innate immunity had median values of 0.37 (P value = 0.0001, compared with
control genes), and genes of intrinsic cellular defense had K(A)/K(S) values
around or greater than 1.0 (P value = 0.0002). Detailed assessment allowed the
identification of residues under positive selection in 13 proteins: AKT1,
APOBEC3G, APOBEC3H, CD4, DEFB1, GML, IL4, IL8RA, L-SIGN/CLEC4M, PTPRC/CD45,
Tetherin/BST2, TLR7, and TRIM5alpha. A number of those residues are relevant for 
HIV-1 biology. The set of 140 genes involved in HIV-1 pathogenesis did not show a
significant enrichment in signals of recent positive selection in humans
(intraspecies selection). However, we identified within or near these genes 24
polymorphisms showing strong signatures of recent positive selection.
Interestingly, the DEFB1 gene presented signatures of both interspecies positive 
selection in primates and intraspecies recent positive selection in humans. The
systematic assessment of long-acting selective pressures on primate genomes is a 
useful tool to extend our understanding of genetic variation influencing
contemporary susceptibility to HIV-1.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msp197 
PMID: 19726537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

