

2108. Mol Biol Evol. 2009 Dec;26(12):2865-75. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msp197. Epub 2009 Sep
2.

Evolutionary trajectories of primate genes involved in HIV pathogenesis.

Ortiz M(1), Guex N, Patin E, Martin O, Xenarios I, Ciuffi A, Quintana-Murci L,
Telenti A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Microbiology, University Hospital Center and University of
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

The current availability of five complete genomes of different primate species
allows the analysis of genetic divergence over the last 40 million years of
evolution. We hypothesized that the interspecies differences observed in
susceptibility to HIV-1 would be influenced by the long-range selective pressures
on host genes associated with HIV-1 pathogenesis. We established a list of human 
genes (n = 140) proposed to be involved in HIV-1 biology and pathogenesis and a
control set of 100 random genes. We retrieved the orthologous genes from the
genome of humans and of four nonhuman primates (Pan troglodytes, Pongo pygmaeus
abeli, Macaca mulatta, and Callithrix jacchus) and analyzed the nucleotide
substitution patterns of this data set using codon-based maximum likelihood
procedures. In addition, we evaluated whether the candidate genes have been
targets of recent positive selection in humans by analyzing HapMap Phase 2
single-nucleotide polymorphisms genotyped in a region centered on each candidate 
gene. A total of 1,064 sequences were used for the analyses. Similar median
K(A)/K(S) values were estimated for the set of genes involved in HIV-1
pathogenesis and for control genes, 0.19 and 0.15, respectively. However, genes
of the innate immunity had median values of 0.37 (P value = 0.0001, compared with
control genes), and genes of intrinsic cellular defense had K(A)/K(S) values
around or greater than 1.0 (P value = 0.0002). Detailed assessment allowed the
identification of residues under positive selection in 13 proteins: AKT1,
APOBEC3G, APOBEC3H, CD4, DEFB1, GML, IL4, IL8RA, L-SIGN/CLEC4M, PTPRC/CD45,
Tetherin/BST2, TLR7, and TRIM5alpha. A number of those residues are relevant for 
HIV-1 biology. The set of 140 genes involved in HIV-1 pathogenesis did not show a
significant enrichment in signals of recent positive selection in humans
(intraspecies selection). However, we identified within or near these genes 24
polymorphisms showing strong signatures of recent positive selection.
Interestingly, the DEFB1 gene presented signatures of both interspecies positive 
selection in primates and intraspecies recent positive selection in humans. The
systematic assessment of long-acting selective pressures on primate genomes is a 
useful tool to extend our understanding of genetic variation influencing
contemporary susceptibility to HIV-1.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msp197 
PMID: 19726537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2109. J Virol. 2009 Nov;83(22):11635-44. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01483-09. Epub 2009 Sep 2.

General and target-specific RNA binding properties of Epstein-Barr virus SM
posttranscriptional regulatory protein.

Han Z(1), Verma D, Hilscher C, Dittmer DP, Swaminathan S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, and University of
Florida Shands Cancer Center, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) SM protein is an essential nuclear shuttling protein
expressed by EBV early during the lytic phase of replication. SM acts to increase
EBV lytic gene expression by binding EBV mRNAs and enhancing accumulation of the 
majority of EBV lytic cycle mRNAs. SM increases target mRNA stability and nuclear
export, in addition to modulating RNA splicing. SM and its homologs in other
herpesvirus have been hypothesized to function in part by binding viral RNAs and 
recruiting cellular export factors. Although activation of gene expression by SM 
is gene specific, it is unknown whether SM binds to mRNA in a specific manner or 
whether its RNA binding is target independent. SM-mRNA complexes were isolated
from EBV-infected B-lymphocyte cell lines induced to permit lytic EBV
replication, and a quantitative measurement of mRNAs corresponding to all known
EBV open reading frames was performed by real-time quantitative reverse
transcription-PCR. The results showed that although SM has broad RNA binding
properties, there is a clear hierarchy of affinities among EBV mRNAs with respect
to SM complex formation. In vitro binding assays with two of the most highly
SM-associated transcripts suggested that SM binds preferentially to specific
sequences or structures present in noncoding regions of some EBV mRNAs.
Furthermore, the presence of these sequences conferred responsiveness to SM.
These data are consistent with a mechanism of action similar to that of hnRNPs,
which exert sequence-specific effects on gene expression despite having multiple 
degenerate consensus binding sites common to a large number of RNAs.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01483-09 
PMCID: PMC2772688
PMID: 19726500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

