

211. Nat Microbiol. 2021 Jan;6(1):73-86. doi: 10.1038/s41564-020-00841-4. Epub 2020
Dec 18.

Responses to acute infection with SARS-CoV-2 in the lungs of rhesus macaques,
baboons and marmosets.

Singh DK(1)(2), Singh B(1)(2), Ganatra SR(1)(2), Gazi M(2), Cole J(1)(2),
Thippeshappa R(1)(2), Alfson KJ(2), Clemmons E(1)(2), Gonzalez O(1)(2), Escobedo 
R(1)(2), Lee TH(1)(2), Chatterjee A(1)(2), Goez-Gazi Y(2), Sharan R(1)(2), Gough 
M(1)(2), Alvarez C(1)(2), Blakley A(1)(2), Ferdin J(1)(2), Bartley C(1)(2),
Staples H(1)(2), Parodi L(1)(2), Callery J(1)(2), Mannino A(1)(2), Klaffke B(2), 
Escareno P(2), Platt RN 2nd(2), Hodara V(1)(2), Scordo J(2), Gautam S(2),
Vilanova AG(2), Olmo-Fontanez A(2), Schami A(2), Oyejide A(3), Ajithdoss DK(3),
Copin R(3), Baum A(3), Kyratsous C(3), Alvarez X(1)(2), Ahmed M(4), Rosa B(4),
Goodroe A(1)(2), Dutton J(1)(2), Hall-Ursone S(1)(2), Frost PA(1)(2), Voges
AK(1)(2)(5), Ross CN(1)(2), Sayers K(1)(2), Chen C(1)(2), Hallam C(2), Khader
SA(4), Mitreva M(4), Anderson TJC(2), Martinez-Sobrido L(2), Patterson JL(2),
Turner J(2), Torrelles JB(2), Dick EJ Jr(1)(2), Brasky K(1)(2), Schlesinger
LS(1)(2), Giavedoni LD(6)(7), Carrion R Jr(8)(9), Kaushal D(10)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(3)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Tarrytown, NY, USA.
(4)Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis, St Louis, MO, USA.
(5)Veterinary Imaging Consulting of South Texas, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(6)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.
lgiavedoni@txbiomed.org.
(7)Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.
lgiavedoni@txbiomed.org.
(8)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.
rcarrion@txbiomed.org.
(9)Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.
rcarrion@txbiomed.org.
(10)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, TX, USA.
dkaushal@txbiomed.org.
(11)Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.
dkaushal@txbiomed.org.

Erratum in
    Nat Microbiol. 2021 Mar;6(3):413.

Comment in
    Lab Anim (NY). 2021 Feb;50(2):44.

Non-human primate models will expedite therapeutics and vaccines for coronavirus 
disease 2019 (COVID-19) to clinical trials. Here, we compare acute severe acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection in young and old rhesus
macaques, baboons and old marmosets. Macaques had clinical signs of viral
infection, mild to moderate pneumonitis and extra-pulmonary pathologies, and both
age groups recovered in two weeks. Baboons had prolonged viral RNA shedding and
substantially more lung inflammation compared with macaques. Inflammation in
bronchoalveolar lavage was increased in old versus young baboons. Using
techniques including computed tomography imaging, immunophenotyping, and
alveolar/peripheral cytokine response and immunohistochemical analyses, we
delineated cellular immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection in macaque and
baboon lungs, including innate and adaptive immune cells and a prominent type-I
interferon response. Macaques developed T-cell memory phenotypes/responses and
bystander cytokine production. Old macaques had lower titres of
SARS-CoV-2-specific IgG antibody levels compared with young macaques. Acute
respiratory distress in macaques and baboons recapitulates the progression of
COVID-19 in humans, making them suitable as models to test vaccines and
therapies.

DOI: 10.1038/s41564-020-00841-4 
PMCID: PMC7890948
PMID: 33340034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Neurophysiol. 2021 Jan 1;125(1):296-304. doi: 10.1152/jn.00581.2020. Epub 2020 
Dec 16.

Visual responses in the dorsolateral frontal cortex of marmoset monkeys.

Feizpour A(1)(2), Majka P(1)(3), Chaplin TA(1)(2), Rowley D(1)(2), Yu HH(1)(2),
Zavitz E(1)(2), Price NSC(1)(2), Rosa MGP(1)(2), Hagan MA(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Laboratory of Neuroinformatics, Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology of
the Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.

The marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has gained attention in neurophysiology 
research as a new primate model for visual processing and behavior. In
particular, marmosets have a lissencephalic cortex, making multielectrode,
optogenetic, and calcium-imaging techniques more accessible than other primate
models. However, the degree of homology of brain circuits for visual behavior
with those identified in macaques and humans is still being ascertained. For
example, whereas the location of the frontal eye fields (FEF) within the
dorsolateral frontal cortex has been proposed, it remains unclear whether neurons
in the corresponding areas show visual responses-an important characteristic of
FEF neurons in other species. Here, we provide the first description of receptive
field properties and neural response latencies in the marmoset dorsolateral
frontal cortex, based on recordings using Utah arrays in anesthetized animals. We
find brisk visual responses in specific regions of the dorsolateral prefrontal
cortex, particularly in areas 8aV, 8C, and 6DR. As in macaque FEF, the receptive 
fields were typically large (10°-30° in diameter) and the median responses
latency was brisk (60 ms). These results constrain the possible interpretations
about the location of the marmoset FEF and suggest that the marmoset model's
significant advantages for the use of physiological techniques may be leveraged
in the study of visuomotor cognition.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Behavior and cognition in
humans and other primates rely on networks of brain areas guided by the frontal
cortex. The marmoset offers exciting new opportunities to study links between
brain physiology and behavior, but the functions of frontal cortex areas are
still being identified in this species. Here, we provide the first evidence of
visual receptive fields in the marmoset dorsolateral frontal cortex, an important
step toward future studies of visual cognitive behavior.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00581.2020 
PMID: 33326337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

