

2110. Am J Primatol. 2009 Dec;71(12):957-63. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20737.

Digestion in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a gummivore-frugivore.

Power ML(1), Myers EW.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Conservation and Ecology Center, Smithsonian National
Zoological Park, PO Box 37012 MRC 5503, Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA.
powerm@si.edu

Wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) feed on fruits, insects, and gums, all
of which provide different digestive challenges. Much of the ingested mass of
fruits consists of seeds. In general, seeds represent indigestible bulk to
marmosets and could inhibit feeding if they are not eliminated rapidly. In
contrast, gums are beta-linked polysaccharides that require microbial
fermentation. Their digestion would benefit from an extended residence time
within the gut. Earlier research found that mean retention time (MRT) for a
liquid digestive marker (cobalt EDTA) was significantly longer than MRT for a
particulate marker (chromium-mordanted fiber), suggesting that common marmosets
preferentially retain liquid digesta. We conducted two four-day-long digestion
trials on 13 individually housed adult common marmosets fed a single-item,
purified diet in order to examine the relations among MRT of cobalt EDTA and
chromium-mordanted fiber, food dry matter intake (DMI), and apparent
digestibility of dry matter (ADDM). We compared the MRT values with the data from
the previous study mentioned above and a study using polystyrene beads. There
were no significant correlations among MRT, ADDM, or DMI, although increases in
DMI between trials were associated with decreases in MRT. ADDM was consistent
within individuals between trials; but the mean values ranged from 75.0 to 83.4% 
among individuals. We found no difference in MRT between the liquid (17.5 + or - 
1.6 hr) and particulate (17.9 + or - 1.4 hr) markers. Although these values were 
not significantly different than found previously, the MRT for chromium-mordanted
fiber tended to be longer. This probably reflects the relatively small size of
the chromium-mordanted fiber particles used in this study. An inverse
relationship between particle size and MRT was evident; the mean MRT of
polysterene beads, the largest marker, was only 8.3 + or - 1.5 hr. Marmosets
appear to retain liquids and small particles within the gut longer than large
particles.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20737 
PMID: 19725117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2111. Diabetes. 2009 Dec;58(12):2873-9. doi: 10.2337/db09-0873. Epub 2009 Aug 31.

Prenatal programming of metabolic syndrome in the common marmoset is associated
with increased expression of 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1.

Nyirenda MJ(1), Carter R, Tang JI, de Vries A, Schlumbohm C, Hillier SG, Streit
F, Oellerich M, Armstrong VW, Fuchs E, Seckl JR.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology Unit, Queen's Medical Research Institute, University of
Edinburgh, U.K.

OBJECTIVE: Recent studies in humans and animal models of obesity have shown
increased adipose tissue activity of 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1
(11beta-HSD1), which amplifies local tissue glucocorticoid concentrations. The
reasons for this 11beta-HSD1 dysregulation are unknown. Here, we tested whether
11beta-HSD1 expression, like the metabolic syndrome, is "programmed" by prenatal 
environmental events in a nonhuman primate model, the common marmoset monkey.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We used a "fetal programming" paradigm where brief
antenatal exposure to glucocorticoids leads to the metabolic syndrome in the
offspring. Pregnant marmosets were given the synthetic glucocorticoid
dexamethasone orally for 1 week in either early or late gestation, or they were
given vehicle. Tissue 11beta-HSD1 and glucocorticoid receptor mRNA expression
were examined in the offspring at 4 and 24 months of age.
RESULTS: Prenatal dexamethasone administration, selectively during late
gestation, resulted in early and persistent elevations in 11beta-HSD1 mRNA
expression and activity in the liver, pancreas, and subcutaneous-but not
visceral-fat. The increase in 11beta-HSD1 occurred before animals developed
obesity or overt features of the metabolic syndrome. In contrast to rodents, in
utero dexamethasone exposure did not alter glucocorticoid receptor expression in 
metabolic tissues in marmosets.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that long-term upregulation of 11beta-HSD1 in
metabolically active tissues may follow prenatal "stress" hormone exposure and
indicates a novel mechanism for fetal origins of adult obesity and the metabolic 
syndrome.

DOI: 10.2337/db09-0873 
PMCID: PMC2780883
PMID: 19720800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

