

2113. Lancet. 2009 Aug 22;374(9690):607-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61514-2.

The science and ethics of primate research.

Thew M, Seymour E.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2009 Jun 6;373(9679):1920.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61514-2 
PMID: 19700003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2114. Transgenic Res. 2010 Apr;19(2):181-6. doi: 10.1007/s11248-009-9316-6. Epub 2009
Aug 19.

"What's wrong with my monkey?" Ethical perspectives on germline transgenesis in
marmosets.

Olsson IA(1), Sand√∏e P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Science, IBMC-Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular,
Universidade do Porto, Rua do Campo Alegre 823, 4150-180 Porto, Portugal.
olsson@ibmc.up.pt

The birth of the first transgenic primate to have inherited a transgene from its 
parents opens the possibility to set up transgenic marmoset colonies, as these
monkeys are small and relatively easy to keep and breed in research facilities.
The prospect of transgenic marmoset models of human disease, readily available in
the way that transgenic laboratory mice are currently, prompts excitement in the 
scientific community; but the idea of monkeys being bred to carry diseases is
also contentious. We structure an ethical analysis of the transgenic marmoset
case around three questions: whether it is acceptable to use animals as models of
human disease; whether it is acceptable to genetically modify animals; and
whether these animals' being monkeys makes a difference. The analysis considers
the prospect of transgenic marmoset studies coming to replace transgenic mouse
studies and lesion studies in marmosets in some areas of research. The
mainstream, broadly utilitarian view of animal research suggests that such a
transition will not give rise to greater ethical problems than those presently
faced. It can be argued that using marmosets rather than mice will not result in 
more animal suffering, and that the benefits of research will improve with a move
to a species more similar in phylogenetic terms to humans. The biological and
social proximity of monkeys and humans may also benefit the animals by making it 
easier for scientists and caretakers to recognize signs of suffering and
increasing the human motivation to limit it. The animal welfare and research
impacts of the transition to marmoset use will depend very much on the extent to 
which researchers take these issues seriously and seek to minimize animal harm
and optimize human benefit.

DOI: 10.1007/s11248-009-9316-6 
PMID: 19690974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

