

2114. Transgenic Res. 2010 Apr;19(2):181-6. doi: 10.1007/s11248-009-9316-6. Epub 2009
Aug 19.

"What's wrong with my monkey?" Ethical perspectives on germline transgenesis in
marmosets.

Olsson IA(1), Sandøe P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Science, IBMC-Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular,
Universidade do Porto, Rua do Campo Alegre 823, 4150-180 Porto, Portugal.
olsson@ibmc.up.pt

The birth of the first transgenic primate to have inherited a transgene from its 
parents opens the possibility to set up transgenic marmoset colonies, as these
monkeys are small and relatively easy to keep and breed in research facilities.
The prospect of transgenic marmoset models of human disease, readily available in
the way that transgenic laboratory mice are currently, prompts excitement in the 
scientific community; but the idea of monkeys being bred to carry diseases is
also contentious. We structure an ethical analysis of the transgenic marmoset
case around three questions: whether it is acceptable to use animals as models of
human disease; whether it is acceptable to genetically modify animals; and
whether these animals' being monkeys makes a difference. The analysis considers
the prospect of transgenic marmoset studies coming to replace transgenic mouse
studies and lesion studies in marmosets in some areas of research. The
mainstream, broadly utilitarian view of animal research suggests that such a
transition will not give rise to greater ethical problems than those presently
faced. It can be argued that using marmosets rather than mice will not result in 
more animal suffering, and that the benefits of research will improve with a move
to a species more similar in phylogenetic terms to humans. The biological and
social proximity of monkeys and humans may also benefit the animals by making it 
easier for scientists and caretakers to recognize signs of suffering and
increasing the human motivation to limit it. The animal welfare and research
impacts of the transition to marmoset use will depend very much on the extent to 
which researchers take these issues seriously and seek to minimize animal harm
and optimize human benefit.

DOI: 10.1007/s11248-009-9316-6 
PMID: 19690974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2115. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Dec;53(3):808-25. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.08.004.
Epub 2009 Aug 12.

Patterns of macroevolution among Primates inferred from a supermatrix of
mitochondrial and nuclear DNA.

Fabre PH(1), Rodrigues A, Douzery EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution (ISEM, UMR 5554 CNRS), Université
Montpellier II, Place E. Bataillon, CC 064, 34095 Montpellier Cedex 5, France.
phfabre@univ-montp2.fr

Here, we present a new primate phylogeny inferred from molecular supermatrix
analyses of size 42 kb containing 70% of missing data, and representing 75% of
primate species diversity. The supermatrix was analysed using a gene-partitioned 
maximum likelihood approach to obtain an exhaustive molecular phylogenetic
framework. All clades recovered from recent molecular works were upheld in our
analyses demonstrating that the presence of missing data did not bias our
supermatrix inference. The resulting phylogenetic tree was subsequently dated
with a molecular dating method to provide a timescale for speciation events.
Results obtained from our relaxed molecular clock analyses concurred with
previous works based on the same fossil constraints. The resulting dated tree
allowed to infer of macroevolutionary processes among the primates. Shifts in
diversification rate and speciation rates were determined using the SymmeTREE
method and a birthdeath process. No significant asymmetry was detected for the
primate clade, but significant shifts in diversification rate were identified for
seven clades: Anthropoidea, Lemuriformes, Lemuridae, Galagidae, Callithrix genus,
the Cercopithecinae and Asian Macaca. Comparisons with previous primate supertree
results reveal that (i) there was a diversification event at the root of the
Lemuriformes, (ii) a higher diversification rate is detected for Cercopithecidae 
and Anthropoidea and (iii) a shift in diversification is always recovered for
Macaca genus. Macroevolutionary inferences and primate divergence dates show that
major primate diversification events occurred after the Paleogene, suggesting the
extinction of ancient primate lineages.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.08.004 
PMID: 19682589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

