

2117. Horm Behav. 2009 Oct;56(4):436-43. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.07.012. Epub 2009
Aug 5.

Prolactin's mediative role in male parenting in parentally experienced marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Ziegler TE(1), Prudom SL, Zahed SR, Parlow AF, Wegner F.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Prolactin has been implicated in promoting paternal care behaviors but little
evidence of causality has been found to date except for birds and fish. This
study was designed to examine the possible causal relationships between prolactin
and male parenting behaviors, reproductive hormones, and physical changes in
cooperatively breeding common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus. Fifteen parentally
experienced fathers were studied over three consecutive infant care periods
during two weeks prior and three weeks following their mates' parturition under
three-treatment conditions: normal control pregnancy, decreased prolactin and
elevated prolactin. The treatments significantly altered the serum prolactin
levels in the fathers. Using three methods of determining a father's level of
parental care: infant carrying, family effort and responsiveness to infant
stimulus tests, we found that only the male response to infant stimuli was
altered by the hormone treatments. Lowering prolactin significantly reduced male 
responsiveness to infant stimuli but elevating prolactin showed the same effect. 
Hormonal sampling indicated that testosterone levels showed an inverse
relationship to prolactin levels during a normal peripartum period and prolactin 
treatment reduced this relationship. Prepartum estradiol levels were
significantly elevated during the lowered prolactin treatment and estradiol was
significantly lowered postpartum with the elevated prolactin treatment. Father's 
weight decreased significantly by the third week of infant care during the normal
treatment. Males in the elevated prolactin treatment lost little or no weight
from prepartum while in the lowered prolactin treatment showed the most weight
loss. The present findings did not distinguish a direct causal relationship of
prolactin on behavior in experienced fathers but did find an interaction with
other hormones and weight gain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2009.07.012 
PMCID: PMC2761515
PMID: 19664636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2118. Eur J Neurosci. 2009 Aug;30(4):578-92. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2009.06846.x.
Epub 2009 Aug 3.

Connections of the marmoset rostrotemporal auditory area: express pathways for
analysis of affective content in hearing.

Reser DH(1), Burman KJ, Richardson KE, Spitzer MW, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
David.Reser@med.monash.edu.au

The current hierarchical model of primate auditory cortical processing proposes a
core of 'primary-like' areas, which is surrounded by secondary (belt) and
tertiary (parabelt) regions. The rostrotemporal auditory cortical area (RT)
remains the least well characterized of the three proposed core areas, and its
functional organization has only recently come under scrutiny. Here we used
injections of anterograde and retrograde tracers in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) to examine the connectivity of RT and its adjacent areas. As
expected from the current model, RT exhibited dense core-like reciprocal
connectivity with the ventral division of the medial geniculate body, the rostral
core area and the auditory belt, but had weaker connections with the parabelt.
However, RT also projected to the ipsilateral rostromedial prefrontal cortex
(area 10), the dorsal temporal pole and the ventral caudate nucleus, as well as
bilaterally to the lateral nucleus of the amygdala. Thus, RT has connectivity
with limbic structures previously believed to connect only with higher-order
auditory association cortices, and is probably functionally distinct from the
other core areas. While this view is consistent with a proposed role of RT in
temporal integration, our results also indicate that RT could provide an
anatomical 'shortcut' for processing affective content in auditory information.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2009.06846.x 
PMID: 19663937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

