

212. J Neurophysiol. 2021 Jan 1;125(1):296-304. doi: 10.1152/jn.00581.2020. Epub 2020 
Dec 16.

Visual responses in the dorsolateral frontal cortex of marmoset monkeys.

Feizpour A(1)(2), Majka P(1)(3), Chaplin TA(1)(2), Rowley D(1)(2), Yu HH(1)(2),
Zavitz E(1)(2), Price NSC(1)(2), Rosa MGP(1)(2), Hagan MA(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Laboratory of Neuroinformatics, Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology of
the Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.

The marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has gained attention in neurophysiology 
research as a new primate model for visual processing and behavior. In
particular, marmosets have a lissencephalic cortex, making multielectrode,
optogenetic, and calcium-imaging techniques more accessible than other primate
models. However, the degree of homology of brain circuits for visual behavior
with those identified in macaques and humans is still being ascertained. For
example, whereas the location of the frontal eye fields (FEF) within the
dorsolateral frontal cortex has been proposed, it remains unclear whether neurons
in the corresponding areas show visual responses-an important characteristic of
FEF neurons in other species. Here, we provide the first description of receptive
field properties and neural response latencies in the marmoset dorsolateral
frontal cortex, based on recordings using Utah arrays in anesthetized animals. We
find brisk visual responses in specific regions of the dorsolateral prefrontal
cortex, particularly in areas 8aV, 8C, and 6DR. As in macaque FEF, the receptive 
fields were typically large (10°-30° in diameter) and the median responses
latency was brisk (60 ms). These results constrain the possible interpretations
about the location of the marmoset FEF and suggest that the marmoset model's
significant advantages for the use of physiological techniques may be leveraged
in the study of visuomotor cognition.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Behavior and cognition in
humans and other primates rely on networks of brain areas guided by the frontal
cortex. The marmoset offers exciting new opportunities to study links between
brain physiology and behavior, but the functions of frontal cortex areas are
still being identified in this species. Here, we provide the first evidence of
visual receptive fields in the marmoset dorsolateral frontal cortex, an important
step toward future studies of visual cognitive behavior.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00581.2020 
PMID: 33326337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Neuroimage. 2021 Feb 1;226:117620. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117620. Epub
2020 Dec 8.

Marmoset Brain Mapping V3: Population multi-modal standard volumetric and
surface-based templates.

Liu C(1), Yen CC(2), Szczupak D(3), Tian X(3), Glen D(4), Silva AC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute, 3501
Fifth Avenue, 6065 Biomedical Science Tower 3, Pittsburgh PA, USA; Cerebral
Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA; CAS Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Institute of Neuroscience, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai 200031, China.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute, 3501
Fifth Avenue, 6065 Biomedical Science Tower 3, Pittsburgh PA, USA; Cerebral
Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Scientific and Statistical Computing Core, National Institute of Mental
Health, National Institutes of Health (NIMH/NIH), Bethesda, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute, 3501
Fifth Avenue, 6065 Biomedical Science Tower 3, Pittsburgh PA, USA; Cerebral
Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. Electronic address: afonso@pitt.edu.

The standard anatomical brain template provides a common space and coordinate
system for visualizing and analyzing neuroimaging data from large cohorts of
subjects. Previous templates and atlases for the common marmoset brain were
either based on data from a single individual or lacked essential functionalities
for neuroimaging analysis. Here, we present new population-based in-vivo standard
templates and tools derived from multi-modal data of 27 marmosets, including
multiple types of T1w and T2w contrast images, DTI contrasts, and large
field-of-view MRI and CT images. We performed multi-atlas labeling of anatomical 
structures on the new templates and constructed highly accurate tissue-type
segmentation maps to facilitate volumetric studies. We built fully featured brain
surfaces and cortical flat maps to facilitate 3D visualization and surface-based 
analyses, which are compatible with most surface analyzing tools, including
FreeSurfer, AFNI/SUMA, and the Connectome Workbench. Analysis of the MRI and CT
datasets revealed significant variations in brain shapes, sizes, and regional
volumes of brain structures, highlighting substantial individual variabilities in
the marmoset population. Thus, our population-based template and associated tools
provide a versatile analysis platform and standard coordinate system for a wide
range of MRI and connectome studies of common marmosets. These new template tools
comprise version 3 of our Marmoset Brain Mapping Project and are publicly
available via marmosetbrainmapping.org/v3.html.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117620 
PMCID: PMC7908070
PMID: 33307224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

