

2121. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2009;80(3):175-88. doi: 10.1159/000230035. Epub 2009 Jul 
29.

Effect of nest box availability on the circadian activity rhythm of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Gonçalves FB(1), Belísio AS, Azevedo CV.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal
do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.

The effect of nest box availability on the circadian activity rhythm (CAR) was
compared in a diurnal primate kept in two conditions: with and without nest box, 
in a light-dark (LD) cycle (12:12) and constant light (LL). Marmosets kept in LD 
without nest box showed a longer duration of the activity phase (alpha), smaller 
day-to-day variability in activity onset and offset and higher levels of
activity, particularly towards the end of the activity time. In LL, all animals
maintained with nest box expressed free-running CAR, but without nest box, 3 of
the 4 individuals showed relative coordination with the outdoor LD cycle,
possibly due to social synchronization with captive marmosets maintained
outdoors. All animals showed longer alpha and higher levels of activity without
nest box. Thus, the availability of a nest box is an important aspect in
maintaining marmosets, influencing CAR expression in this diurnal primate in LD
and LL conditions, possibly due to differences in light exposure that induces
masking. Further studies are needed to evaluate the effects of the unavailability
of a nest box on CAR in LL conditions.

DOI: 10.1159/000230035 
PMID: 19641323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2122. Am J Primatol. 2009 Nov;71(11):912-8. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20729.

Development of microsatellite DNA markers and their chromosome assignment in the 
common marmoset.

Katoh H(1), Takabayashi S, Itoh T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Japan. hideki-k@hama-med.ac.jp

This study was performed to develop microsatellite DNA markers, which are useful 
for linkage analyses, gene mapping and blood chimera analyses in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We searched 153 of 295 bacterial artificial clone 
DNA sequences of the common marmoset that were archived in the NCBI database in
2004. On the basis of the search, we designed 186 PCR primer sets. When tested
using 5 unrelated individuals, we successfully detected 154 markers with PCR
products, of which 80 (52%) were polymorphic and 74 (48%) were monomorphic. We
assigned each of the 154 markers to a human chromosome based on BLAST searches,
which was achieved by searching the entire human genome sequences using an
approximately 3 kb section of each forward primer sequence, including
approximately 1.5 kb of the upstream and approximately 1.5 kb of the downstream
sequences. Combining our assignment data and the chromosome painting-assisted
karyotype of the common marmoset [Sherlock et al., Genomics 33:214-219, 1996], we
prepared a list of 154 microsatellite DNA markers that were assigned to human
chromosomes, except for the Y chromosome, which is equivalent to a chromosome
map. Using five microsatellite DNA markers, we have established a fragment
analysis method with a sequencer, which can be routinely used for blood chimera
analysis, parentage diagnosis and individual identification.

Copyright 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20729 
PMID: 19637280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

