

2122. Am J Primatol. 2009 Nov;71(11):912-8. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20729.

Development of microsatellite DNA markers and their chromosome assignment in the 
common marmoset.

Katoh H(1), Takabayashi S, Itoh T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Japan. hideki-k@hama-med.ac.jp

This study was performed to develop microsatellite DNA markers, which are useful 
for linkage analyses, gene mapping and blood chimera analyses in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We searched 153 of 295 bacterial artificial clone 
DNA sequences of the common marmoset that were archived in the NCBI database in
2004. On the basis of the search, we designed 186 PCR primer sets. When tested
using 5 unrelated individuals, we successfully detected 154 markers with PCR
products, of which 80 (52%) were polymorphic and 74 (48%) were monomorphic. We
assigned each of the 154 markers to a human chromosome based on BLAST searches,
which was achieved by searching the entire human genome sequences using an
approximately 3 kb section of each forward primer sequence, including
approximately 1.5 kb of the upstream and approximately 1.5 kb of the downstream
sequences. Combining our assignment data and the chromosome painting-assisted
karyotype of the common marmoset [Sherlock et al., Genomics 33:214-219, 1996], we
prepared a list of 154 microsatellite DNA markers that were assigned to human
chromosomes, except for the Y chromosome, which is equivalent to a chromosome
map. Using five microsatellite DNA markers, we have established a fragment
analysis method with a sequencer, which can be routinely used for blood chimera
analysis, parentage diagnosis and individual identification.

Copyright 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20729 
PMID: 19637280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2123. Chem Biol Drug Des. 2009 Jun;73(6):637-43. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-0285.2009.00810.x.

Interaction of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) receptor binding inhibitor-8: a
novel FSH-binding inhibitor, with FSH and its receptor.

Chitnis SS(1), Selvaakumar C, Jagtap DD, Barnwal RP, Chary KV, Mahale SD,
Nandedkar TD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Indian Council of
Medical Research, Mumbai, India.

Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) receptor binding inhibitor (FRBI-8) is a novel
octapeptide purified from human ovarian follicular fluid. In vitro, it inhibits
the binding of FSH to granulosa cells and in vivo, it induces atresia in
developing follicles in rodents. This peptide, when administered to marmosets and
bonnet monkeys, altered the circulating progesterone levels. This study was
carried out to elucidate structure of the FRBI-8 and understand its mechanism of 
inhibiting interaction of FSH to its receptors. Homology modeling predicted that 
the FRBI-8 adopts a turn and random coil. This is further confirmed by circular
dichroism and NMR. Docking studies of the FRBI-8 with reported FSH-FSHR hormone
binding (FSHR(HB)) domain complex using ZDOCK algorithm revealed that the FRBI-8 
binds to FSHbetaL2-FSHR(HB) binding interface which is otherwise known to be
crucial for activation of signal transduction cascade. FRBI-8 analogs were
designed by replacing the acidic amino acid residues at positions 2, 5 and 6 with
Ala, individually. Docking studies revealed that D6A mutant (FRBI-8(D6A)) had a
higher binding affinity than the native FRBI-8. In vitro radioreceptor assay with
FRBI-8(D6A) showed 50% lower IC(50) compared with the FRBI-8, confirming the in
silico observations. Thus, the study reveals that both FRBI-8 and FRBI-8(D6A)
interfered with the binding of FSH to its receptor.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-0285.2009.00810.x 
PMID: 19635055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

