

2123. Chem Biol Drug Des. 2009 Jun;73(6):637-43. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-0285.2009.00810.x.

Interaction of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) receptor binding inhibitor-8: a
novel FSH-binding inhibitor, with FSH and its receptor.

Chitnis SS(1), Selvaakumar C, Jagtap DD, Barnwal RP, Chary KV, Mahale SD,
Nandedkar TD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Indian Council of
Medical Research, Mumbai, India.

Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) receptor binding inhibitor (FRBI-8) is a novel
octapeptide purified from human ovarian follicular fluid. In vitro, it inhibits
the binding of FSH to granulosa cells and in vivo, it induces atresia in
developing follicles in rodents. This peptide, when administered to marmosets and
bonnet monkeys, altered the circulating progesterone levels. This study was
carried out to elucidate structure of the FRBI-8 and understand its mechanism of 
inhibiting interaction of FSH to its receptors. Homology modeling predicted that 
the FRBI-8 adopts a turn and random coil. This is further confirmed by circular
dichroism and NMR. Docking studies of the FRBI-8 with reported FSH-FSHR hormone
binding (FSHR(HB)) domain complex using ZDOCK algorithm revealed that the FRBI-8 
binds to FSHbetaL2-FSHR(HB) binding interface which is otherwise known to be
crucial for activation of signal transduction cascade. FRBI-8 analogs were
designed by replacing the acidic amino acid residues at positions 2, 5 and 6 with
Ala, individually. Docking studies revealed that D6A mutant (FRBI-8(D6A)) had a
higher binding affinity than the native FRBI-8. In vitro radioreceptor assay with
FRBI-8(D6A) showed 50% lower IC(50) compared with the FRBI-8, confirming the in
silico observations. Thus, the study reveals that both FRBI-8 and FRBI-8(D6A)
interfered with the binding of FSH to its receptor.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-0285.2009.00810.x 
PMID: 19635055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2124. Exp Neurol. 2009 Oct;219(2):533-42. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.07.011. Epub
2009 Jul 18.

Continuous administration of rotigotine to MPTP-treated common marmosets enhances
anti-parkinsonian activity and reduces dyskinesia induction.

Stockwell KA(1), Scheller D, Rose S, Jackson MJ, Tayarani-Binazir K, Iravani MM, 
Smith LA, Olanow CW, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

Rotigotine is a novel, non-ergoline dopamine D(3)/D(2)/D(1)-receptor agonist for 
the treatment of Parkinson's disease that can be continuously delivered by the
transdermal route to provide stable plasma levels. Continuous drug delivery
should reduce the risk of dyskinesia induction in comparison to pulsatile
dopaminergic treatment. Thus the aim of the study was to compare the reversal of 
motor disability and induction of dyskinesia produced by continuous compared to
pulsatile rotigotine administration in MPTP-treated common marmosets. The study
also investigated whether pulsatile or continuous rotigotine administration in
combination with l-DOPA prevented l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Animals were treated
for 28 days with vehicle or pulsatile (twice daily) or continuous delivery of
rotigotine (via an osmotic minipump). Subsequently, l-DOPA was then
co-administered for a further 28 days. Animals were assessed for locomotor
activity, motor disability and dyskinesia induction. The study showed that both
continuous and pulsatile administration of rotigotine improved motor deficits and
normalized motor function in MPTP-treated monkeys. However, continuous rotigotine
delivery reduced dyskinesia expression compared to pulsatile treatment. Both
pulsatile and continuous rotigotine administration produced less dyskinesia than 
administration of l-DOPA alone. The addition of l-DOPA to either pulsatile or
continuous rotigotine treatment resulted in the induction of marked dyskinesia
similar to that produced by treatment with l-DOPA alone. These data further
support the hypothesis that continuous delivery of a dopaminergic agent reduces
the risk of dyskinesia induction. However, continuous rotigotine administration
did not prevent l-DOPA from inducing dyskinesia suggesting that l-DOPA may induce
dyskinesia by mechanisms different from dopamine agonist drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.07.011 
PMID: 19619533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

