

2126. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2009 Aug;195(8):783-9.
doi: 10.1007/s00359-009-0456-1. Epub 2009 Jul 12.

Antiphonal call timing in marmosets is behaviorally significant: interactive
playback experiments.

Miller CT(1), Beck K, Meade B, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
corymiller@ucsd.edu

Studies of primate vocal communication systems have generally focused on
vocalizations and the information they convey to conspecifics. But the
vocalizations are not the only sources of information. Aspects of each species
vocal behaviors are likely to be communicatively rich as well. During vocal
interactions, for example, the latency delay between the calls could communicate 
an important message to the signal receiver, such as an interest and willingness 
to socialize. Here we employed novel, interactive playback software to address
this issue in the antiphonal calling behavior of common marmosets. In these
experiments, we parametrically varied the latency delay of antiphonal call
stimuli and measured its effects on subjects' resultant vocal behavior. Results
showed that marmosets produced successively fewer antiphonal call responses
during test conditions with increasing latency delays. Moreover, although
subjects produced significantly more antiphonal than spontaneous calls in
conditions with antiphonal call timing delays up to 9 s, a longer delay resulted 
in a significant decline in calling. These data suggest that antiphonal call
timing is a salient cue for maintaining antiphonal calling interactions and may
be used by marmosets to determine whether a subsequent call is produced in
response to or independently of their own.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-009-0456-1 
PMCID: PMC3787898
PMID: 19597736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2127. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2009 Dec;103(12):1291-2; author reply 1292. doi:
10.1016/j.trstmh.2009.05.011. Epub 2009 Jul 2.

Comment on: GB virus infection: a silent anti-HIV panacea within?

Stapleton JT.

Comment on
    Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2008 Dec;102(12):1176-80.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trstmh.2009.05.011 
PMID: 19576606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

