

2128. J Virol. 2009 Sep;83(17):8771-80. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00112-09. Epub 2009 Jun 24.

A New World primate deficient in tetherin-mediated restriction of human
immunodeficiency virus type 1.

Wong SK(1), Connole M, Sullivan JS, Choe H, Carville A, Farzan M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Harvard Medical School, and
New England Primate Research Center, Southborough, Massachusettts 01772, USA.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) does not replicate in primary cells
of New World primates. To better understand this restriction, we expressed owl
monkey (Aotus nancymaae) CD4 and CXCR4 in the owl monkey kidney cell line, OMK.
An HIV-1 variant modified to evade the owl monkey restriction factor TRIM-cyp
replicated efficiently in these cells but could not replicate in primary A.
nancymaae CD4-positive T cells. To understand this difference, we examined
APOBEC3G and tetherin orthologs from OMK cells and primary A. nancymaae cells. We
observed that OMK cells expressed substantially lower levels of APOBEC3G than did
A. nancymaae cells. A. nancymaae, but not marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), APOBEC3G
was partially downregulated by HIV-1 vif and reduced but did not abolish HIV-1
replication when stably expressed in OMK cells. The functional difference between
A. nancymaae and marmoset APOBEC3Gs mapped to residue 128, previously shown to
distinguish African green monkey from human APOBEC3G. We also characterized
tetherin orthologs from OMK and A. nancymaae cells. The A. nancymaae tetherin
ortholog, but not OMK tetherin, prevented HIV-1 release. Alteration of threonine 
181 of OMK tetherin rescued its function and its efficient N glycosylation. All
alleles of Aotus lemurinus griseimembra examined, but none of A. nancymaae or
Aotus vociferans, encoded this nonfunctional tetherin ortholog. Our data indicate
that HIV-1 replication in owl monkeys is not restricted at entry but can be
limited by APOBEC3G and tetherin. Further, A. lemurinus griseimembra does not
restrict HIV-1 replication via tetherin, a property likely useful for the study
of tetherin-restricted viruses.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00112-09 
PMCID: PMC2738210
PMID: 19553332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2129. Neurosci Lett. 2009 Sep 25;461(3):217-22. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2009.06.016. Epub
2009 Jun 17.

Distribution of vasopressin and oxytocin binding sites in the brain and upper
spinal cord of the common marmoset.

Schorscher-Petcu A(1), Dupr√© A, Tribollet E.

Author information: 
(1)Douglas Mental Health University Institute, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec H4H 1R3, Canada.

The aim of this study was to label selectively and to map central vasopressin
(AVP) and oxytocin (OT) binding sites in the common marmoset. [(125)I]VPA, a
compound selective in rodents and human for the AVP V(1a) receptor, yielded the
same labeling pattern as [(3)H]AVP, thus suggesting that most AVP receptors
present in the marmoset brain are of the V(1a) subtype. Numerous areas exhibited 
AVP binding sites, among which the olfactory bulb, the accumbens nucleus, the bed
nucleus of the stria terminalis, the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic, arcuate and
ventromedial nuclei, the medial amygdaloid nucleus, the nucleus of the solitary
tract and the cerebral cortex. Binding sites for [(125)I]OTA, a selective OT
receptor antagonist in rat and human, were markedly less abundant than
[(125)I]VPA ones, and, to a few exceptions, expressed in different areas. Neither
AVP, nor OT binding sites were detected in the hypothalamic paraventricular (PVN)
and supraoptic (SON) nuclei identified by neurophysin immunoreactivity. Marked
species-related differences were observed in the distribution of both AVP and OT 
binding sites. Altogether, our data provide a morphological basis to investigate 
the function of central AVP and OT in the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2009.06.016 
PMID: 19539696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

