

2132. Cloning Stem Cells. 2009 Jun;11(2):225-33. doi: 10.1089/clo.2008.0064.

Growth characteristics of the nonhuman primate embryonic stem cell line cjes001
depending on feeder cell treatment.

Fleischmann G(1), MÃ¼ller T, Blasczyk R, Sasaki E, Horn PA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, University Hospital Essen , Essen,
Germany.

Embryonic stem cells (ESC) hold tremendous potential for therapeutic
applications, including regenerative medicine, as well as for understanding basic
mechanisms in stem cell biology. Since numerous experiments cannot be conducted
in human ESC because of ethical or practical limitations, nonhuman primate ESC
serve as invaluable clinically relevant models. The novel marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) ESC line cjes001 was characterized using different stem cell markers.
The cells were stained positively with Oct4, SSEA-3, SSEA-4, Tra-1-60, Tra-1-81, 
and Sox-2 underscoring their status as undifferentiated ESC. ESC are typically
grown on mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) as feeder cells whose proliferation is
arrested either by treatment with Mitomycin C or by gamma-irradiation. To assess 
the impact of these treatments on the ability of MEF to support the growth of
undifferentiated ESC, we used an MTT assay to evaluate the cellular metabolic
activity of growth arrested feeder cells. There was a significant (p < 0.02)
difference in gamma-irradiated cells displaying a higher metabolic activity
compared to Mitomycin C inactivation. Also we quantified 69 soluble factors in
the supernatant of both Mitomycin-treated and gamma-irradiated MEF by bead-based 
multiplex analysis, and thus established a profile of MEF-secreted factors. The
time course of secretion was analyzed by monitoring the supernatant at 0, 6, 12, 
and 24 h after changing the medium. Comparing gamma-irradiated and
Mitomycin-treated MEF suggested higher amounts of some cytokines including FGF or
SCF by the former. We also assessed whether the method of inactivation had an
effect on growth kinetics and differentiation of primate ESC. There appeared to
be a trend to a lower number of differentiated ESC colonies on the
gamma-irradiated feeder cells, suggesting that this may be the preferable method 
of growth arrest.

DOI: 10.1089/clo.2008.0064 
PMID: 19522672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2133. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2009 Nov;50(11):5411-8. doi: 10.1167/iovs.08-3246.
Epub 2009 Jun 10.

CD73, a novel cell surface antigen that characterizes retinal photoreceptor
precursor cells.

Koso H(1), Minami C, Tabata Y, Inoue M, Sasaki E, Satoh S, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of Medical
Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

PURPOSE: The authors sought to identify cell surface markers of photoreceptor and
its precursor cells.
METHODS: The expression of surface CD antigens that label both temporally and
spatially distinct populations of mouse retinal cells were examined. Of the
antibodies that showed positive signals in retinal cells, CD73 was focused on for
more detailed analyses.
RESULTS: Mouse retinal subpopulations that expressed CD73 first appeared around
birth and subsequently increased dramatically in number, eventually representing 
more than 90% of the retinal cells in the adult. CD73(+) cells were postmitotic
and mostly rhodopsin-negative at postnatal day 1. However, in the adult retina,
most of these cells expressed rhodopsin but not s-opsin. In reaggregation
cultures, CD73(+) cells differentiated into rhodopsin-positive cells more rapidly
than CD73(-) cells, which supports the idea that CD73 is an early photoreceptor
lineage marker. The effects of ectopic expression in retinal cells of Nrl and
Crx, both of which are transcription factors known to be expressed in
photoreceptor lineage, suggest that CD73 is genetically downstream of Crx in the 
rod cell differentiation lineage. Adult retina of the common marmoset monkey also
showed correlation of the expression pattern of rhodopsin and CD73.
CONCLUSIONS: CD73 is a cell surface marker of cone/rod common precursors and
mature rod cells in mice and is genetically localized between Nrl and Crx. The
expression of CD73 was conserved in primate rod cells, and CD73 provides an
useful tool to purify photoreceptor cells for transplantation aimed at the
regeneration of photoreceptors.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.08-3246 
PMID: 19515998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

