

2136. Antibiot Khimioter. 2009;54(1-2):14-6.

[Antiviral activity of panavir in experimental Measles virus infection in cell
cultures].

[Article in Russian]

Markushin SG, Litvin AA.

Antiviral activity of Panavir was studied in a model of experimental infection
due to Morbillivirus in subcultures of cells Vero and B-16. It was shown that at 
multiplicity of the infection (0.001-0.0001 TCD50/cell) Panavir inhibited
reproduction of the virus in concentrations of 12-100 mcg/0.2 ml.


PMID: 19499711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2137. Hum Reprod. 2009 Sep;24(9):2244-54. doi: 10.1093/humrep/dep200. Epub 2009 Jun 2.

Effect of fetal or neonatal exposure to monobutyl phthalate (MBP) on testicular
development and function in the marmoset.

McKinnell C(1), Mitchell RT, Walker M, Morris K, Kelnar CJ, Wallace WH, Sharpe
RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, The
Queen's Medical Research Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16
4TJ, UK. c.mckinnell@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Fetal exposure of male rats to some phthalates induces reproductive
abnormalities, raising concerns for similar effects in humans. In order to
address this in a more appropriate animal model, the aim of the present studies
was to investigate the effect of fetal/neonatal exposure to monobutyl phthalate
(MBP) in a non-human primate, the marmoset. In particular, to determine if
exposure resulted in effects at birth, or in adulthood, similar to those in male 
rats, and whether there was evidence for induction of carcinoma-in-situ (CIS) or 
testicular germ cell tumours (TGCT).
METHODS: Pregnant female marmosets were dosed from approximately 7-15 weeks
gestation with 500 mg/kg/day MBP and male offspring studied at birth (1-5 days; n
= 6) or in adulthood (n = 5). In another study, newborn males (n = 5 co-twins)
were dosed with 500 mg/kg/day MBP for 14 days, commencing at approximately 4 days
of age.
RESULTS: Fetal exposure of marmosets to MBP did not affect gross testicular
morphology, reproductive tract development or testosterone levels at birth, nor
were germ cell number and proliferation, Sertoli cell number or germ:Sertoli cell
ratio affected. In two of six MBP-exposed animals, unusual clusters of
undifferentiated germ cells were found, but their significance is unclear.
Neonatal MBP treatment did not affect germ cell numbers or differentiation. Fetal
exposure to MBP did not affect testis size/morphology, germ cell numbers or
fertility in adulthood. There was no evidence for CIS or TGCT.
CONCLUSIONS: Fetal exposure of marmosets to MBP does not measurably affect testis
development/function or cause testicular dysgenesis, and no effects emerge by
adulthood. Some effects on germ cell development were found, but these were
inconsistent and of uncertain significance.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dep200 
PMCID: PMC2727403
PMID: 19491204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

