

2137. Hum Reprod. 2009 Sep;24(9):2244-54. doi: 10.1093/humrep/dep200. Epub 2009 Jun 2.

Effect of fetal or neonatal exposure to monobutyl phthalate (MBP) on testicular
development and function in the marmoset.

McKinnell C(1), Mitchell RT, Walker M, Morris K, Kelnar CJ, Wallace WH, Sharpe
RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, The
Queen's Medical Research Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16
4TJ, UK. c.mckinnell@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Fetal exposure of male rats to some phthalates induces reproductive
abnormalities, raising concerns for similar effects in humans. In order to
address this in a more appropriate animal model, the aim of the present studies
was to investigate the effect of fetal/neonatal exposure to monobutyl phthalate
(MBP) in a non-human primate, the marmoset. In particular, to determine if
exposure resulted in effects at birth, or in adulthood, similar to those in male 
rats, and whether there was evidence for induction of carcinoma-in-situ (CIS) or 
testicular germ cell tumours (TGCT).
METHODS: Pregnant female marmosets were dosed from approximately 7-15 weeks
gestation with 500 mg/kg/day MBP and male offspring studied at birth (1-5 days; n
= 6) or in adulthood (n = 5). In another study, newborn males (n = 5 co-twins)
were dosed with 500 mg/kg/day MBP for 14 days, commencing at approximately 4 days
of age.
RESULTS: Fetal exposure of marmosets to MBP did not affect gross testicular
morphology, reproductive tract development or testosterone levels at birth, nor
were germ cell number and proliferation, Sertoli cell number or germ:Sertoli cell
ratio affected. In two of six MBP-exposed animals, unusual clusters of
undifferentiated germ cells were found, but their significance is unclear.
Neonatal MBP treatment did not affect germ cell numbers or differentiation. Fetal
exposure to MBP did not affect testis size/morphology, germ cell numbers or
fertility in adulthood. There was no evidence for CIS or TGCT.
CONCLUSIONS: Fetal exposure of marmosets to MBP does not measurably affect testis
development/function or cause testicular dysgenesis, and no effects emerge by
adulthood. Some effects on germ cell development were found, but these were
inconsistent and of uncertain significance.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dep200 
PMCID: PMC2727403
PMID: 19491204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2138. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):523-7. doi: 10.1038/nature08090.

Generation of transgenic non-human primates with germline transmission.

Sasaki E(1), Suemizu H, Shimada A, Hanazawa K, Oiwa R, Kamioka M, Tomioka I,
Sotomaru Y, Hirakawa R, Eto T, Shiozawa S, Maeda T, Ito M, Ito R, Kito C,
Yagihashi C, Kawai K, Miyoshi H, Tanioka Y, Tamaoki N, Habu S, Okano H, Nomura T.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 1430 Nogawa, Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki,
Kanagawa 216-0001, Japan. esasaki@ciea.or.jp

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):515-6.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is increasingly attractive for use as a 
non-human primate animal model in biomedical research. It has a relatively high
reproduction rate for a primate, making it potentially suitable for transgenic
modification. Although several attempts have been made to produce non-human
transgenic primates, transgene expression in the somatic tissues of live infants 
has not been demonstrated by objective analyses such as polymerase chain reaction
with reverse transcription or western blots. Here we show that the injection of a
self-inactivating lentiviral vector in sucrose solution into marmoset embryos
results in transgenic common marmosets that expressed the transgene in several
organs. Notably, we achieved germline transmission of the transgene, and the
transgenic offspring developed normally. The successful creation of transgenic
marmosets provides a new animal model for human disease that has the great
advantage of a close genetic relationship with humans. This model will be
valuable to many fields of biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08090 
PMID: 19478777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

