

2141. Nature. 2009 May 28;459(7246):483. doi: 10.1038/459483a.

Time to connect.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1038/459483a 
PMID: 19478734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2142. J Virol. 2009 Aug;83(16):8062-75. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00032-09. Epub 2009 May 27.

Lack of adaptation of chimeric GB virus B/hepatitis C virus in the marmoset
model: possible effects of bottleneck.

Weatherford T(1), Chavez D, Brasky KM, Lemon SM, Martin A, Lanford RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical
Research, San Antonio, TX 78227, USA.

Approximately 3% of the world population is chronically infected with hepatitis C
virus (HCV). GB virus B (GBV-B), a surrogate model for HCV, causes hepatitis in
tamarins and is the virus phylogenetically most closely related to HCV.
Previously we described a chimeric GBV-B containing an HCV insert from the 5'
noncoding region (NCR) that was adapted for efficient replication in tamarins
(Saguinus species). We have also demonstrated that wild-type (WT) GBV-B rapidly
adapts for efficient replication in a closely related species, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Here, we demonstrate that the chimeric virus
failed to adapt during serial passage in marmosets. The chimeric virus was
passaged four times through 24 marmosets. During passage, two marmoset phenotypes
were observed: susceptible and partially resistant. Although appearing to adapt
in a resistant animal during a prolonged and gradual increase in viremia, the
chimeric GBV-B failed to replicate efficiently upon passage to a na√Øve marmoset. 
The resistance was specific to the chimeric virus, as the chimeric
virus-resistant animals were susceptible to marmoset-adapted WT virus during
rechallenge studies. Three isolates of the chimeric virus were sequenced, and 20 
nucleotide changes were observed, including eight amino acid changes. Three
unique changes were observed in the 5' NCR chimeric insert, an area that is
highly conserved in HCV. We speculate that the failure of the chimeric virus to
adapt in marmosets might be due to a bottleneck that occurs at the time of
infection of resistant animals, which may lead to a loss of fitness upon serial
passage.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00032-09 
PMCID: PMC2715777
PMID: 19474092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

