

2142. J Virol. 2009 Aug;83(16):8062-75. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00032-09. Epub 2009 May 27.

Lack of adaptation of chimeric GB virus B/hepatitis C virus in the marmoset
model: possible effects of bottleneck.

Weatherford T(1), Chavez D, Brasky KM, Lemon SM, Martin A, Lanford RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical
Research, San Antonio, TX 78227, USA.

Approximately 3% of the world population is chronically infected with hepatitis C
virus (HCV). GB virus B (GBV-B), a surrogate model for HCV, causes hepatitis in
tamarins and is the virus phylogenetically most closely related to HCV.
Previously we described a chimeric GBV-B containing an HCV insert from the 5'
noncoding region (NCR) that was adapted for efficient replication in tamarins
(Saguinus species). We have also demonstrated that wild-type (WT) GBV-B rapidly
adapts for efficient replication in a closely related species, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Here, we demonstrate that the chimeric virus
failed to adapt during serial passage in marmosets. The chimeric virus was
passaged four times through 24 marmosets. During passage, two marmoset phenotypes
were observed: susceptible and partially resistant. Although appearing to adapt
in a resistant animal during a prolonged and gradual increase in viremia, the
chimeric GBV-B failed to replicate efficiently upon passage to a na√Øve marmoset. 
The resistance was specific to the chimeric virus, as the chimeric
virus-resistant animals were susceptible to marmoset-adapted WT virus during
rechallenge studies. Three isolates of the chimeric virus were sequenced, and 20 
nucleotide changes were observed, including eight amino acid changes. Three
unique changes were observed in the 5' NCR chimeric insert, an area that is
highly conserved in HCV. We speculate that the failure of the chimeric virus to
adapt in marmosets might be due to a bottleneck that occurs at the time of
infection of resistant animals, which may lead to a loss of fitness upon serial
passage.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00032-09 
PMCID: PMC2715777
PMID: 19474092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2143. J Endocrinol. 2009 Dec;203(3):313-26. doi: 10.1677/JOE-08-0554. Epub 2009 May 27.

Plasticity of the zona reticularis in the adult marmoset adrenal cortex: voyages 
of discovery in the New World.

Pattison JC(1), Abbott DH, Saltzman W, Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 7E Meriter
Hospital/Park, 202 South Park Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53715, USA.

Adrenarche in humans occurs at the age of 5-7 years, yet the process by which
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) biosynthesis in the adrenal zona reticularis (ZR)
increases so dramatically remains as a matter of debate. One suggestion is that
increased DHEA production by P450c17 (CYP17A1 as listed in HUGO Database) in the 
ZR results from a coincident fall in the expression of HSD3B, which would
otherwise compete for pregnenolone substrate. Nonetheless, studies of human and
rhesus adrenal show that cytochrome b5 (CYTB5) expression increases in the ZR
with DHEA biosynthesis, and cloned human and rhesus P450c17 show selective
increases in 17,20-lyase activity in the presence of CYTB5. The marmoset, a New
World primate, expresses a fetal zone during development which regresses after
birth. Adult males, however, do not develop an obvious functional ZR, while
females develop a ZR in a manner that depends on their social/gonadal status. In 
all social and physiologic states, changes in marmoset ZR function relate
directly to changes in the expression of CYTB5. Recent cloning and expression of 
marmoset P450c17 also show that while amino acid sequence homology is in the
order of approximately 85% of that found in human and rhesus sequences, and basal
lyase activity is low compared with rhesus, all previously described amino acids 
critical to human 17,20-lyase activity are completely conserved. Furthermore, the
17,20-lyase activity of the marmoset P450c17 clone is dramatically increased by
addition of CYTB5. We propose that these combined data from the marmoset model
provide further compelling evidence that the control of ZR CYTB5 expression is a 
key determinant of ZR function.

DOI: 10.1677/JOE-08-0554 
PMID: 19474057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

