

2143. J Endocrinol. 2009 Dec;203(3):313-26. doi: 10.1677/JOE-08-0554. Epub 2009 May 27.

Plasticity of the zona reticularis in the adult marmoset adrenal cortex: voyages 
of discovery in the New World.

Pattison JC(1), Abbott DH, Saltzman W, Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 7E Meriter
Hospital/Park, 202 South Park Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53715, USA.

Adrenarche in humans occurs at the age of 5-7 years, yet the process by which
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) biosynthesis in the adrenal zona reticularis (ZR)
increases so dramatically remains as a matter of debate. One suggestion is that
increased DHEA production by P450c17 (CYP17A1 as listed in HUGO Database) in the 
ZR results from a coincident fall in the expression of HSD3B, which would
otherwise compete for pregnenolone substrate. Nonetheless, studies of human and
rhesus adrenal show that cytochrome b5 (CYTB5) expression increases in the ZR
with DHEA biosynthesis, and cloned human and rhesus P450c17 show selective
increases in 17,20-lyase activity in the presence of CYTB5. The marmoset, a New
World primate, expresses a fetal zone during development which regresses after
birth. Adult males, however, do not develop an obvious functional ZR, while
females develop a ZR in a manner that depends on their social/gonadal status. In 
all social and physiologic states, changes in marmoset ZR function relate
directly to changes in the expression of CYTB5. Recent cloning and expression of 
marmoset P450c17 also show that while amino acid sequence homology is in the
order of approximately 85% of that found in human and rhesus sequences, and basal
lyase activity is low compared with rhesus, all previously described amino acids 
critical to human 17,20-lyase activity are completely conserved. Furthermore, the
17,20-lyase activity of the marmoset P450c17 clone is dramatically increased by
addition of CYTB5. We propose that these combined data from the marmoset model
provide further compelling evidence that the control of ZR CYTB5 expression is a 
key determinant of ZR function.

DOI: 10.1677/JOE-08-0554 
PMID: 19474057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2144. Anim Cogn. 2009 Sep;12(5):725-32. doi: 10.1007/s10071-009-0234-z. Epub 2009 May
18.

Recognition of a 3D snake model and its 2D photographic image by captive black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Emile N(1), Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, CEP 70910-900, Brazil.

Two-dimensional (2D) displays of real three-dimensional (3D) objects are
frequently used experimental tools in animal studies. Whether marmoset monkeys,
with their highly diverse and complex anti-predation strategies, readily
recognized 2D representations of potential threats has yet to be determined, as
seen in other primates. Thus, the behavioral responses of adult captive black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) toward an unfamiliar motionless
snake-model and its photograph were assessed. Pictorially na√Øve subjects were
randomly divided into two groups (n = 12/each) and submitted to two trials. Group
1 was initially exposed to the 3D object and after 1 week to its photograph.
Group 2 was first presented the picture and only tested with the real object 1
week later. All 15-min trials were divided into three consecutive 5-min
intervals: pre-exposure, exposure and post-exposure. In the presence of the 3D
snake object, regardless of its presentation order, the frequency of direct
gazes, head-cocks, tsik-tsik alarm/mobbing calls and genital displays increased
significantly. The photograph induced a similar response, although only when the 
object had been previously presented, as significantly higher levels of these
behaviors were seen in Group 1 than Group 2. Proximity to the stimulus, aerial
scan, terrestrial glance, displacement activities and locomotion were not
consistently influenced by the stimuli's presence and/or order of presentation.
Therefore, marmosets recognized and responded appropriately to biologically and
emotionally relevant 3D and 2D stimuli. Since the aversive/fearful reactions
toward the photograph were only seen after the snake object had been presented,
the former seems to be essentially a learned response.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-009-0234-z 
PMID: 19449190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

