

2144. Anim Cogn. 2009 Sep;12(5):725-32. doi: 10.1007/s10071-009-0234-z. Epub 2009 May
18.

Recognition of a 3D snake model and its 2D photographic image by captive black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Emile N(1), Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, CEP 70910-900, Brazil.

Two-dimensional (2D) displays of real three-dimensional (3D) objects are
frequently used experimental tools in animal studies. Whether marmoset monkeys,
with their highly diverse and complex anti-predation strategies, readily
recognized 2D representations of potential threats has yet to be determined, as
seen in other primates. Thus, the behavioral responses of adult captive black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) toward an unfamiliar motionless
snake-model and its photograph were assessed. Pictorially na√Øve subjects were
randomly divided into two groups (n = 12/each) and submitted to two trials. Group
1 was initially exposed to the 3D object and after 1 week to its photograph.
Group 2 was first presented the picture and only tested with the real object 1
week later. All 15-min trials were divided into three consecutive 5-min
intervals: pre-exposure, exposure and post-exposure. In the presence of the 3D
snake object, regardless of its presentation order, the frequency of direct
gazes, head-cocks, tsik-tsik alarm/mobbing calls and genital displays increased
significantly. The photograph induced a similar response, although only when the 
object had been previously presented, as significantly higher levels of these
behaviors were seen in Group 1 than Group 2. Proximity to the stimulus, aerial
scan, terrestrial glance, displacement activities and locomotion were not
consistently influenced by the stimuli's presence and/or order of presentation.
Therefore, marmosets recognized and responded appropriately to biologically and
emotionally relevant 3D and 2D stimuli. Since the aversive/fearful reactions
toward the photograph were only seen after the snake object had been presented,
the former seems to be essentially a learned response.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-009-0234-z 
PMID: 19449190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2145. Mol Biol Evol. 2009 Aug;26(8):1889-900. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msp101. Epub 2009 May
8.

New insights into centromere organization and evolution from the white-cheeked
gibbon and marmoset.

Cellamare A(1), Catacchio CR, Alkan C, Giannuzzi G, Antonacci F, Cardone MF,
Della Valle G, Malig M, Rocchi M, Eichler EE, Ventura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.

The evolutionary history of alpha-satellite DNA, the major component of primate
centromeres, is hardly defined because of the difficulty in its sequence assembly
and its rapid evolution when compared with most genomic sequences. By using
several approaches, we have cloned, sequenced, and characterized alpha-satellite 
sequences from two species representing critical nodes in the primate phylogeny: 
the white-cheeked gibbon, a lesser ape, and marmoset, a New World monkey.
Sequence analyses demonstrate that white-cheeked gibbon and marmoset
alpha-satellite sequences are formed by units of approximately 171 and
approximately 342 bp, respectively, and they both lack the high-order structure
found in humans and great apes. Fluorescent in situ hybridization
characterization shows a broad dispersal of alpha-satellite in the white-cheeked 
gibbon genome including centromeric, telomeric, and chromosomal interstitial
localizations. On the other hand, centromeres in marmoset appear organized in
highly divergent dimers roughly of 342 bp that show a similarity between monomers
much lower than previously reported dimers, thus representing an ancient dimeric 
structure. All these data shed light on the evolution of the centromeric
sequences in Primates. Our results suggest radical differences in the structure, 
organization, and evolution of alpha-satellite DNA among different primate
species, supporting the notion that 1) all the centromeric sequence in Primates
evolved by genomic amplification, unequal crossover, and sequence homogenization 
using a 171 bp monomer as the basic seeding unit and 2) centromeric function is
linked to relatively short repeated elements, more than higher-order structure.
Moreover, our data indicate that complex higher-order repeat structures are a
peculiarity of the hominid lineage, showing the more complex organization in
humans.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msp101 
PMCID: PMC2734153
PMID: 19429672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

