

2147. Br J Pharmacol. 2009 Aug;157(7):1157-71. doi: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2009.00196.x.
Epub 2009 Apr 27.

Effects of NXY-059 in experimental stroke: an individual animal meta-analysis.

Bath PM(1), Gray LJ, Bath AJ, Buchan A, Miyata T, Green AR; NXY-059 Efficacy
Meta-analysis in Individual Animals with Stroke Investigators.

Author information: 
(1)Stroke Trials Unit, University of Nottingham, Clinical Sciences Building, City
Hospital Campus, Hucknall Road, Nottingham, UK. philip.bath@nottingham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Pharmacol. 2009 Aug;157(7):1154-6.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Disodium 2,4-disulphophenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (NXY-059)
was neuroprotective in experimental stroke models but ineffective in a large
clinical trial. This first-ever individual animal meta-analysis was used to
assess the preclinical studies.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Studies were obtained from AstraZeneca and PubMed
searches. Data for each animal were obtained from the lead author of each study
and/or AstraZeneca. Published summary data were used if individual data were not 
available. Infarct volume and motor impairment were standardized to reflect
different species and scales. Standardized mean difference (SMD), coefficients
from multilevel models and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) are presented.
KEY RESULTS: Fifteen studies (26 conditions, 12 laboratories) involving rats
(544), mice (9) and marmosets (32) were identified (NXY-059: 332, control: 253)
with individual data for 442 animals. Four studies were unpublished. Studies
variably used randomization (40%), blinding of surgeon (53%) and outcome assessor
(67%). NXY-059 reduced total (SMD -1.17, 95% CI -1.50 to -0.84), cortical (SMD
-2.17, 95% CI -2.99 to -1.34) and subcortical (-1.43, 95% CI -2.20 to -0.86)
lesion volume; efficacy was seen in transient, permanent and thrombotic
ischaemia, up to 180 min post occlusion. NXY-059 reduced motor impairment (SMD
-1.66, 95% CI -2.18 to -1.14) and neglect. Evidence for performance, attrition
and publication bias was present.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: NXY-059 was neuroprotective in experimental stroke 
although bias may have resulted in efficacy being overestimated. Efficacy in
young, healthy, male animals is a poor predictor of clinical outcome. We suggest 
the use of preclinical meta-analysis before initiation of future clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2009.00196.x 
PMCID: PMC2743834
PMID: 19422398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2148. J Neurosci. 2009 May 6;29(18):6033-41. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0312-09.2009.

Response disengagement on a spatial self-ordered sequencing task: effects of
regionally selective excitotoxic lesions and serotonin depletion within the
prefrontal cortex.

Walker SC(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
3EB, UK.

Prefrontal cortex (PFC) is critical for self-ordered response sequencing.
Patients with frontal lobe damage are impaired on response sequencing tasks, and 
increased blood flow has been reported in ventrolateral and dorsolateral PFC in
subjects performing such tasks. Previously, we have shown that large excitotoxic 
lesions of the lateral PFC (LPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex FC (OFC), but not
global prefrontal dopamine depletion, markedly impaired marmoset performance on a
spatial self-ordered sequencing task (SSOST). To determine whether LPFC or OFC
was responsible for the previously observed impairments and whether the
underlying neural mechanism was modulated by serotonin, the present study
compared the effects of selective LPFC and OFC excitotoxic lesions and
5,7-DHT-induced PFC serotonin depletions in marmosets on SSOST performance.
Severe and long-lasting impairments in SSOST performance, including robust
perseverative responding, followed LPFC but not OFC lesions. The deficit was
ameliorated by task manipulations that precluded perseveration. Depletions of
serotonin within LPFC and OFC had no effect, despite impairing performance on a
visual discrimination reversal task, thus providing further evidence for
differential monaminergic regulation of prefrontal function. In the light of the 
proposed attentional control functions of ventrolateral PFC and the failure of
LPFC-lesioned animals to disengage from the immediately preceding response, it is
proposed that this deficit may be due to a failure to attend to and register that
a response has been made and thus should not be repeated. However, 5-HT does not 
appear to be implicated in this response inhibitory capacity.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0312-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC4263250
PMID: 19420270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

