

2148. J Neurosci. 2009 May 6;29(18):6033-41. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0312-09.2009.

Response disengagement on a spatial self-ordered sequencing task: effects of
regionally selective excitotoxic lesions and serotonin depletion within the
prefrontal cortex.

Walker SC(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 
3EB, UK.

Prefrontal cortex (PFC) is critical for self-ordered response sequencing.
Patients with frontal lobe damage are impaired on response sequencing tasks, and 
increased blood flow has been reported in ventrolateral and dorsolateral PFC in
subjects performing such tasks. Previously, we have shown that large excitotoxic 
lesions of the lateral PFC (LPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex FC (OFC), but not
global prefrontal dopamine depletion, markedly impaired marmoset performance on a
spatial self-ordered sequencing task (SSOST). To determine whether LPFC or OFC
was responsible for the previously observed impairments and whether the
underlying neural mechanism was modulated by serotonin, the present study
compared the effects of selective LPFC and OFC excitotoxic lesions and
5,7-DHT-induced PFC serotonin depletions in marmosets on SSOST performance.
Severe and long-lasting impairments in SSOST performance, including robust
perseverative responding, followed LPFC but not OFC lesions. The deficit was
ameliorated by task manipulations that precluded perseveration. Depletions of
serotonin within LPFC and OFC had no effect, despite impairing performance on a
visual discrimination reversal task, thus providing further evidence for
differential monaminergic regulation of prefrontal function. In the light of the 
proposed attentional control functions of ventrolateral PFC and the failure of
LPFC-lesioned animals to disengage from the immediately preceding response, it is
proposed that this deficit may be due to a failure to attend to and register that
a response has been made and thus should not be repeated. However, 5-HT does not 
appear to be implicated in this response inhibitory capacity.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0312-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC4263250
PMID: 19420270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2149. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2009 Apr;1160:140-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.03947.x.

Relaxin supports implantation and early pregnancy in the marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Lieder K, Husen B, Ebert K, Lier S, Einspanier R, Unemori E,
Kemper M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, University of
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. einspanier@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de

To test the hypothesis that relaxin is an important factor supporting
implantation, two approaches have been carried out using a human-relevant animal 
model, the marmoset monkey. First, uterine mRNA transcription and protein
expression during the implantation phase in the conceptive and nonconceptive
cycles were examined. Second, functional parameters were analyzed to assess the
in vivo effects of exogenous applied relaxin throughout implantation. Relaxin and
its receptor, RXFP1, were highly upregulated shortly before and during the
physical process of implantation, indicating that relaxin is an important factor 
for remodeling and immunotolerance. The action of relaxin on the uterus was
accompanied by an increase of estrogen-associated factors and macrophage
infiltration, suggesting redundant systems necessary for successful implantation.
The data from relaxin-treated animals supported those obtained from naive tissues
in terms of increases in angiogenesis as well as earlier and faster growth of the
uterus and placenta in the relaxin-treated marmoset monkey group, resulting in
parturition 7-10 days earlier than the control group, but not pathological. In
general, relaxin is very effective in preparing the endometrium for implantation.
These findings should encourage further clinical research regarding introducing
relaxin for pathological pregnancies, such as early pregnancy failure or
insufficient placenta.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.03947.x 
PMID: 19416176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

