

2149. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2009 Apr;1160:140-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.03947.x.

Relaxin supports implantation and early pregnancy in the marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Lieder K, Husen B, Ebert K, Lier S, Einspanier R, Unemori E,
Kemper M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, University of
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. einspanier@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de

To test the hypothesis that relaxin is an important factor supporting
implantation, two approaches have been carried out using a human-relevant animal 
model, the marmoset monkey. First, uterine mRNA transcription and protein
expression during the implantation phase in the conceptive and nonconceptive
cycles were examined. Second, functional parameters were analyzed to assess the
in vivo effects of exogenous applied relaxin throughout implantation. Relaxin and
its receptor, RXFP1, were highly upregulated shortly before and during the
physical process of implantation, indicating that relaxin is an important factor 
for remodeling and immunotolerance. The action of relaxin on the uterus was
accompanied by an increase of estrogen-associated factors and macrophage
infiltration, suggesting redundant systems necessary for successful implantation.
The data from relaxin-treated animals supported those obtained from naive tissues
in terms of increases in angiogenesis as well as earlier and faster growth of the
uterus and placenta in the relaxin-treated marmoset monkey group, resulting in
parturition 7-10 days earlier than the control group, but not pathological. In
general, relaxin is very effective in preparing the endometrium for implantation.
These findings should encourage further clinical research regarding introducing
relaxin for pathological pregnancies, such as early pregnancy failure or
insufficient placenta.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.03947.x 
PMID: 19416176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2150. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2009 Aug;93(2):134-40. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2009.04.020.
Epub 2009 May 3.

Humans and natural predators induce different fear/anxiety reactions and response
pattern to diazepam in marmoset monkeys.

Cagni P(1), Gon√ßalves I Jr, Ziller F, Emile N, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

The behavioral response of marmoset monkeys in the Human Threat (HT) test of
anxiety, and the effects of diazepam (DZP), were compared to those in the
Predator Confrontation (PC) procedure. Subjects (n=13) were initially submitted
to four habituation trials, followed by four random confrontation sessions for
each test (DZP 0, 1, 2 and 3 mg/kg). Each trial was divided into three
consecutive 5-min intervals: pre-exposure, exposure (human observer, taxidermized
oncilla cat) and post-exposure. As DZP induced sedation, marmosets (n=10) were
re-tested in a second experiment, consisting of two habituation trials and four
confrontation sessions per stimulus, with lower DZP doses (0, 0.10, 0.25 and 0.50
mg/kg). Exposure to both stimuli significantly increased direct gazes and alarm
calls, being dose-dependently reduced by DZP only in the PC test. In the HT
protocol, the significant decrease in aerial scans was not detected with 0.10
mg/kg DZP. Locomotion, proximity, displacement activities and vigilance were not 
consistently influenced by the stimuli and/or DZP. The results thus suggest that 
the HT test had a greater impact on the marmosets' behavior, while DZP was more
effective on the reactions observed in the PC test, possibly due to the inherent 
nature of each stimulus, distinct threat levels and/or presentation order.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2009.04.020 
PMID: 19414027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

