

2151. J Pharmacol Sci. 2009 May;110(1):64-8. Epub 2009 Apr 29.

Zonisamide increases dopamine turnover in the striatum of mice and common
marmosets treated with MPTP.

Yabe H(1), Choudhury ME, Kubo M, Nishikawa N, Nagai M, Nomoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Therapeutic Medicine, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Japan.

The effect of zonisamide, an antiepileptic agent with anti-parkinsonian effects, 
was studied on dopamine neurons of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated C57 mice and common marmosets. Groups of mice (n = 8 - 9) were
treated with: MPTP (15 mg/kg every 2 h x4); MPTP plus zonisamide (40 mg/kg
administered 1 h before each MPTP dose); MPTP plus selegiline (2 mg/kg
administered 1 h before the first MPTP dose); zonisamide (40 mg/kg x4); and
saline controls. Groups of common marmosets (n = 4 - 6) were treated with: MPTP
(2.5 mg/kg every 24 h x3); MPTP plus zonisamide (40 mg/kg administered 1 h before
each MPTP dose); MPTP plus selegiline (2 mg/kg administered 1 h before the first 
MPTP dose); and saline controls. Brain dopamine and its metabolites were
determined by HPLC. Dopamine content decreased in the striatum of MPTP-treated
mice and monkeys. Co-administration of selegiline inhibited the effect of MPTP
and dopamine contents were similar to those of the controls. Co-administration of
zonisamide did not inhibit the effect of MPTP on dopamine content, but increased 
striatal dopamine turnover of animals treated with MPTP plus zonisamide more than
in those treated with MPTP alone. MPTP treatment caused a compensatory increase
of dopamine turnover in the striatum by remaining neurons. Zonisamide may help
dopaminergic neurons by increasing striatal dopamine turnover following MPTP
treatment.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.09019fp 
PMID: 19403994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2152. Am J Primatol. 2009 Jul;71(7):617-22. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20697.

Temporal rules in vocal exchanges of phees and trills in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Yamaguchi C(1), Izumi A, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Models for Human Disease, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan.

Marmosets exchange two types of calls: phees and trills. We played back phees and
trills to investigate the temporal rules of vocal exchanges using ten captive
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The marmosets usually emitted the same
type of vocalizations just after the stimulus playbacks, and similar regularities
were observed in the temporal intervals of phees and in trills. They vocalized
with shorter intervals when they responded with trills rather than phees, and,
after the first call, they repeatedly vocalized trills with shorter intervals
than phees. These results suggest that the temporal rules between phees and
trills are qualitatively similar but quantitatively different. These results
might be owing to the different distances over which these contact calls are
used.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20697 
PMID: 19396872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

