

2152. Am J Primatol. 2009 Jul;71(7):617-22. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20697.

Temporal rules in vocal exchanges of phees and trills in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Yamaguchi C(1), Izumi A, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Models for Human Disease, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan.

Marmosets exchange two types of calls: phees and trills. We played back phees and
trills to investigate the temporal rules of vocal exchanges using ten captive
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The marmosets usually emitted the same
type of vocalizations just after the stimulus playbacks, and similar regularities
were observed in the temporal intervals of phees and in trills. They vocalized
with shorter intervals when they responded with trills rather than phees, and,
after the first call, they repeatedly vocalized trills with shorter intervals
than phees. These results suggest that the temporal rules between phees and
trills are qualitatively similar but quantitatively different. These results
might be owing to the different distances over which these contact calls are
used.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20697 
PMID: 19396872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2153. Comp Med. 2009 Apr;59(2):174-9.

Treatment of giardiasis in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with tinidazole.

Kramer JA(1), Hachey AM, Wachtman LM, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Primate Research Center, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA.

Erratum in
    Comp Med. 2009 Jun;59(3):220.

Giardia intestinalis is a common protozoan parasite that can infect many
laboratory animal primates, although its role as a contributor to the induction
of gastrointestinal disease remains unclear. This study sought to investigate the
prevalence of Giardia in a colony of common marmosets by using a Giardia
antigen-capture assay and to address the possible eradication of this infection
by using tinidazole, an antiprotozoal similar to metronidazole but requiring
fewer doses. Among 31 colony marmosets, 13 (42%) were positive for Giardia. Two
doses of oral tinidazole eliminated the infection in all animals. Repeat testing 
of the 13 Giardia-positive monkeys 1 y later showed that 11 remained negative and
that treated animals had a significant increase in weight at 1 y. Giardia antigen
is common in common marmoset feces, and treatment using oral tinidazole is
possible and highly effective.


PMCID: PMC2703147
PMID: 19389310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

