

2153. Comp Med. 2009 Apr;59(2):174-9.

Treatment of giardiasis in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with tinidazole.

Kramer JA(1), Hachey AM, Wachtman LM, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Primate Research Center, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA.

Erratum in
    Comp Med. 2009 Jun;59(3):220.

Giardia intestinalis is a common protozoan parasite that can infect many
laboratory animal primates, although its role as a contributor to the induction
of gastrointestinal disease remains unclear. This study sought to investigate the
prevalence of Giardia in a colony of common marmosets by using a Giardia
antigen-capture assay and to address the possible eradication of this infection
by using tinidazole, an antiprotozoal similar to metronidazole but requiring
fewer doses. Among 31 colony marmosets, 13 (42%) were positive for Giardia. Two
doses of oral tinidazole eliminated the infection in all animals. Repeat testing 
of the 13 Giardia-positive monkeys 1 y later showed that 11 remained negative and
that treated animals had a significant increase in weight at 1 y. Giardia antigen
is common in common marmoset feces, and treatment using oral tinidazole is
possible and highly effective.


PMCID: PMC2703147
PMID: 19389310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2154. Am J Hum Biol. 2009 Nov-Dec;21(6):745-53. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20923.

Fetal signaling through placental structure and endocrine function: illustrations
and implications from a nonhuman primate model.

Rutherford JN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA. julienne-rutherford@northwestern.edu

The placenta is a transmitter of fetal need and fetal quality, interfacing
directly with maternal physiology and ecology. Plasticity of placental structure 
and function across the developmental timeframe of gestation may serve as an
important tool by which a fetus calibrates its growth to shifting maternal
ecology and resource availability, and thereby signals its quality and
adaptability to a changing environment. Signals of this quality may be conveyed
by the size of the placental interface, an important marker of fetal access to
maternal resources, or by production of placental insulin-like growth factor-II, 
a driver of fetoplacental growth. Litter size variation in the common marmoset
monkey offers the opportunity to explore intrauterine resource allocation and
placental plasticity in an important nonhuman primate model. Triplet marmosets
are born at lower birth weights and have poorer postnatal outcomes and
survivorship than do twins; triplet placentas differ in placental efficiency,
microscopic morphology, and endocrine function. Through placental plasticity,
triplet fetuses are able to adjust functional access to maternal resources in a
way that allows pregnancy to proceed. However, the costs of such mechanisms may
relate to reduced fetal growth and altered postnatal outcomes, with the potential
to lead to adverse adult health consequences, suggesting an important link
between the placenta itself and the developmental origins of health and disease.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20923 
PMCID: PMC3319756
PMID: 19384862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

