

2155. Behav Brain Res. 2009 Jun 8;200(1):214-9.

Two new test methods to quantify motor deficits in a marmoset model for
Parkinson's disease.

Verhave PS(1), Vanwersch RA, van Helden HP, Smit AB, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Security and Safety,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands. nelleke.verhave@tno.nl

The validity of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model for human
disease depends on the development of parameters with clinical relevance. We
tested the effect of treatment with MPTP in two newly developed non-invasive
motor behavioral paradigms in the context of Parkinson's disease. The "Tower" was
designed to quantify the marmoset's natural jumping behavior as a measure for
akinesia, the "Hourglass" to test the marmoset's natural righting reflex as
measure for rigidity, analogous to axial motor behavior in humans. MPTP treatment
affected marmoset behavior in both testing paradigms. The marmoset's righting
reflex in the Hourglass remained significantly impaired during the full 3-week
period after the MPTP intoxication. In the Tower, the marmosets were not able to 
jump the largest distances one week after MPTP and showed a persistent reduction 
in activity during the 3-week period after the MPTP intoxication. Because not all
aspects of motor behavior are similarly affected by MPTP, a complete behavioral
sketch of parkinsonian marmosets should preferably include a range of motor
behavior functions to create an overview of the full range of motor impairments. 
Both the Hourglass and Tower test provide important behavioral parameters in a
clinically relevant multiple testing approach in motor disorder models.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2009.01.022 
PMID: 19378465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2156. Methods Mol Biol. 2009;549:157-73. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60327-931-4_11.

Animal models of multiple sclerosis.

Furlan R(1), Cuomo C, Martino G.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit - DIBIT and Department of Neuroscience, San Raffaele
Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy.

Since its first description, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis,
originally designated experimental allergic encephalitis (EAE), has been proposed
as animal model to investigate pathogenetic hypotheses and test new treatments in
the field of central nervous system inflammation and demyelination, which has
become, in the last 30 years, the most popular animal model of multiple sclerosis
(MS). This experimental disease can be obtained in all mammals tested so far,
including nonhuman primates, allowing very advanced preclinical studies. Its
appropriate use has led to the development of the most recent treatments approved
for MS, also demonstrating its predictive value when properly handled. Some of
the most exciting experiments validating the use of neural precursor cells (NPCs)
as a potential therapeutic option in CNS inflammation have been performed in this
model. We review here the most relevant immunological features of EAE in the
different animal species and strains, and describe detailed protocols to obtain
the three most common clinical courses of EAE in mice, with the hope to provide
both cultural and practical basis for the use of this fascinating animal model.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60327-931-4_11 
PMID: 19378202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

