

2159. Am J Hum Biol. 2009 Nov-Dec;21(6):739-44. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20920.

Variations in male parenting behavior and physiology in the common marmoset.

Ziegler TE(1), Prudom SL, Zahed SR.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Infant survival and wellbeing is dependent upon good parenting skills. In some
species of primates, fathers are necessary to ensure both positive developmental 
and social outcomes for their offspring. Common marmosets and the related
cotton-top tamarin monkeys provide extensive paternal care of multiple offspring 
and are essential for infant survival. However, we have found significant
variation in a father's motivation to respond to infant stimuli. Additionally,
marmoset males who are experienced fathers are significantly more motivated to
respond to infants and infant stimuli than adult males who have yet to be
fathers. Expectant fathers appear to be preparing for their energetic role in
infant care by responding with increases in multiple reproductive hormones and
showing weight gain during their mate's pregnancy. Male marmosets have been shown
to be hormonally responsive to scent signals. Males show increased testosterone
shortly after smelling periovulatory scents and lower levels of testosterone
following presentation of their own infant's scent. These two inverse
testosterone responses combined indicate that paternal males have a flexible
system of responding to socially relevant odor cues. Thus males can be ready to
mate when their mate is fertile while continuing to be responsive to their
infants when these two events occur simultaneously. A male's hormonal and
physical responsiveness to parenting may be due to pair bonding between the male 
and his mate. Examining the variability between males in their behavioral,
physical, and hormonal responses to their mate's pregnancy, and infant stimuli
provides the means for determining the mechanisms of good parenting in fathers.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20920 
PMCID: PMC5030771
PMID: 19367571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2160. Cereb Cortex. 2009 Dec;19(12):2865-79. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhp062. Epub 2009 Apr 
14.

Paraneoplastic antigen-like 5 gene (PNMA5) is preferentially expressed in the
association areas in a primate specific manner.

Takaji M(1), Komatsu Y, Watakabe A, Hashikawa T, Yamamori T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, 38
Nishigonaka Myodaiji, Okazaki 444-8585, Japan.

To understand the relationship between the structure and function of primate
neocortical areas at a molecular level, we have been screening for genes
differentially expressed across macaque neocortical areas by restriction landmark
cDNA scanning (RLCS). Here, we report enriched expression of the paraneoplastic
antigen-like 5 gene (PNMA5) in association areas but not in primary sensory
areas, with the lowest expression level in primary visual cortex. In situ
hybridization in the primary sensory areas revealed PNMA5 mRNA expression
restricted to layer II. Along the ventral visual pathway, the expression
gradually increased in the excitatory neurons from the primary to higher visual
areas. This differential expression pattern was very similar to that of
retinol-binding protein (RBP) mRNA, another association-area-enriched gene that
we reported previously. Additional expression analysis for comparison of other
genes in the PNMA gene family, PNMA1, PNMA2, PNMA3, and MOAP1 (PNMA4), showed
that they were widely expressed across areas and layers but without the
differentiated pattern of PNMA5. In mouse brains, PNMA1 was only faintly
expressed and PNMA5 was not detected. Sequence analysis showed divergence of
PNMA5 sequences among mammals. These findings suggest that PNMA5 acquired a
certain specialized role in the association areas of the neocortex during primate
evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhp062 
PMCID: PMC2774394
PMID: 19366867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

