

2160. Cereb Cortex. 2009 Dec;19(12):2865-79. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhp062. Epub 2009 Apr 
14.

Paraneoplastic antigen-like 5 gene (PNMA5) is preferentially expressed in the
association areas in a primate specific manner.

Takaji M(1), Komatsu Y, Watakabe A, Hashikawa T, Yamamori T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, 38
Nishigonaka Myodaiji, Okazaki 444-8585, Japan.

To understand the relationship between the structure and function of primate
neocortical areas at a molecular level, we have been screening for genes
differentially expressed across macaque neocortical areas by restriction landmark
cDNA scanning (RLCS). Here, we report enriched expression of the paraneoplastic
antigen-like 5 gene (PNMA5) in association areas but not in primary sensory
areas, with the lowest expression level in primary visual cortex. In situ
hybridization in the primary sensory areas revealed PNMA5 mRNA expression
restricted to layer II. Along the ventral visual pathway, the expression
gradually increased in the excitatory neurons from the primary to higher visual
areas. This differential expression pattern was very similar to that of
retinol-binding protein (RBP) mRNA, another association-area-enriched gene that
we reported previously. Additional expression analysis for comparison of other
genes in the PNMA gene family, PNMA1, PNMA2, PNMA3, and MOAP1 (PNMA4), showed
that they were widely expressed across areas and layers but without the
differentiated pattern of PNMA5. In mouse brains, PNMA1 was only faintly
expressed and PNMA5 was not detected. Sequence analysis showed divergence of
PNMA5 sequences among mammals. These findings suggest that PNMA5 acquired a
certain specialized role in the association areas of the neocortex during primate
evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhp062 
PMCID: PMC2774394
PMID: 19366867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2161. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2009 Sep;34(8):1222-34. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2009.03.012. Epub 2009 Apr 11.

Effects of elevated circulating cortisol concentrations on maternal behavior in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
Saltzman@ucr.edu

Both acute and chronic stress can impair maternal behavior and increase rates of 
infant abuse in several species. The mechanisms inducing these effects are
unknown, but experimental manipulation of circulating corticosterone levels
alters maternal behavior in rats, and circulating or excreted cortisol
concentrations have been found to correlate either positively or negatively with 
maternal behavior in humans and nonhuman primates. In this study, therefore, we
experimentally tested the hypothesis that both acute and chronic treatment with
exogenous glucocorticoids would alter maternal behavior in a primate, the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Multiparous females, approximately 3-5 weeks
postpartum, received daily injections of either cortisol (hydrocortisone sodium
succinate and hydrocortisone acetate; N=7) or vehicle (N=7) for 8 days, and
maternal behavior was characterized under baseline conditions as well as during
exposure to a noise stressor. Cortisol treatment successfully elevated both
morning and afternoon plasma cortisol concentrations and suppressed circulating
levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone. In home-cage observations,
cortisol-treated females carried their infants significantly less than control
mothers, and in noise-stressor tests, several hours after the first cortisol or
vehicle treatment, cortisol-treated mothers inspected their infants significantly
more often than controls. Aggression towards infants was infrequent and mild, and
did not differ between treatment groups. These findings provide the first
experimental evidence that cortisol elevations can alter maternal behavior in
primates. As these effects were limited in scope, however, they suggest that
other stress-responsive hormones or neuropeptides may additionally play a role in
mediating the effects of stress on maternal behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2009.03.012 
PMCID: PMC2716431
PMID: 19362777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

