

2161. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2009 Sep;34(8):1222-34. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2009.03.012. Epub 2009 Apr 11.

Effects of elevated circulating cortisol concentrations on maternal behavior in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
Saltzman@ucr.edu

Both acute and chronic stress can impair maternal behavior and increase rates of 
infant abuse in several species. The mechanisms inducing these effects are
unknown, but experimental manipulation of circulating corticosterone levels
alters maternal behavior in rats, and circulating or excreted cortisol
concentrations have been found to correlate either positively or negatively with 
maternal behavior in humans and nonhuman primates. In this study, therefore, we
experimentally tested the hypothesis that both acute and chronic treatment with
exogenous glucocorticoids would alter maternal behavior in a primate, the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Multiparous females, approximately 3-5 weeks
postpartum, received daily injections of either cortisol (hydrocortisone sodium
succinate and hydrocortisone acetate; N=7) or vehicle (N=7) for 8 days, and
maternal behavior was characterized under baseline conditions as well as during
exposure to a noise stressor. Cortisol treatment successfully elevated both
morning and afternoon plasma cortisol concentrations and suppressed circulating
levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone. In home-cage observations,
cortisol-treated females carried their infants significantly less than control
mothers, and in noise-stressor tests, several hours after the first cortisol or
vehicle treatment, cortisol-treated mothers inspected their infants significantly
more often than controls. Aggression towards infants was infrequent and mild, and
did not differ between treatment groups. These findings provide the first
experimental evidence that cortisol elevations can alter maternal behavior in
primates. As these effects were limited in scope, however, they suggest that
other stress-responsive hormones or neuropeptides may additionally play a role in
mediating the effects of stress on maternal behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2009.03.012 
PMCID: PMC2716431
PMID: 19362777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2162. J Neurosci. 2009 Apr 8;29(14):4548-63. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0529-09.2009.

Connections of the dorsomedial visual area: pathways for early integration of
dorsal and ventral streams in extrastriate cortex.

Rosa MG(1), Palmer SM, Gamberini M, Burman KJ, Yu HH, Reser DH, Bourne JA,
Tweedale R, Galletti C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Melbourne, Victoria
3800, Australia. marcello.rosa@med.monash.edu.au

The dorsomedial area (DM), a subdivision of extrastriate cortex characterized by 
heavy myelination and relative emphasis on peripheral vision, remains the least
understood of the main targets of striate cortex (V1) projections in primates.
Here we placed retrograde tracer injections encompassing the full extent of this 
area in marmoset monkeys, and performed quantitative analyses of the numerical
strengths and laminar patterns of its afferent connections. We found that
feedforward projections from V1 and from the second visual area (V2) account for 
over half of the inputs to DM, and that the vast majority of the remaining
connections come from other topographically organized visual cortices.
Extrastriate projections to DM originate in approximately equal proportions from 
adjacent medial occipitoparietal areas, from the superior temporal
motion-sensitive complex centered on the middle temporal area (MT), and from
ventral stream-associated areas. Feedback from the posterior parietal cortex and 
other association areas accounts for <10% of the connections. These results do
not support the hypothesis that DM is specifically associated with a medial
subcircuit of the dorsal stream, important for visuomotor integration. Instead,
they suggest an early-stage visual-processing node capable of contributing across
cortical streams, much as V1 and V2 do. Thus, although DM may be important for
providing visual inputs for guided body movements (which often depend on
information contained in peripheral vision), this area is also likely to
participate in other functions that require integration across wide expanses of
visual space, such as perception of self-motion and contour completion.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0529-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC6665729
PMID: 19357280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

