

2164. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2009 Apr;68(4):341-55. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e31819f1d24.

Clinical, pathological, and immunologic aspects of the multiple sclerosis model
in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

't Hart BA(1), Massacesi L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

The efficacy of many new immunomodulatory therapies for multiple sclerosis (MS)
patients has often been disappointing, reflecting our incomplete understanding of
this enigmatic disease. There is a growing awareness that, at least in part,
there may be limited applicability to the human disease of results obtained in
the widely studied MS model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in rodents.
This review describes the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model
developed in a small neotropical primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). The model has features including clinicopathologic correlation
patterns, lesion heterogeneity, immunologic mechanisms, and disease markers that 
more closely mimic the human disease. Several unique features of experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis in marmosets, together with their outbred nature and
close genetic and immunologic similarities to humans, create an attractive
experimental model for translational research into MS, particularly for the
preclinical evaluation of new biologic therapeutic molecules that cannot be
investigated in rodents because of their species specificity. Moreover, this
model provides new insights into possible pathogenetic mechanisms in MS.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e31819f1d24 
PMID: 19337065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2165. Int J Exp Pathol. 2009 Apr;90(2):109-18. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00631.x.

Establishment of lethal inhalational infection with Francisella tularensis
(tularaemia) in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Lever MS, Savage VL, Salguero FJ, Pearce PC, Stevens DJ, Simpson AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK. mnelson@dstl.gov.uk

Susceptibility and lethality studies of inhalational tularaemia were undertaken
using the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to determine its suitability as a 
non-human primate model. Pairs of marmosets were exposed to varying challenge
doses of Francisella tularensis by the airborne route and monitored for up to 14 
days postchallenge (p.c.). Lethal infection was achieved following a retained
dose of less than 10 bacterial colony-forming units (CFU). However, precise
LD(50) determination was not possible. The model was characterized using a target
challenge dose of approximately 100 CFU. Increased core body temperature was the 
first indicator of disease, at approximately 2.5 days p.c. Overt clinical signs
were first observed 12-18 h after the temperature increase. Significantly
decreased activity was observed after approximately 3 days. All animals succumbed
to infection between 4.5 and 7 days p.c. At postmortem examination, gross
pathology was evident in the liver, spleen and lungs of all animals and high
bacterial numbers were detected in all the organs assessed. Bacteraemia was
demonstrated in all animals postmortem. Histopathological observations included
severe suppurative bronchopneumonia, severe multifocal pyogranulomatous
hepatitis, splenitis and lymphadenitis. Tularaemia disease progression in the
common marmoset therefore appears to be consistent with the disease seen in
humans and other animal models. The common marmoset may therefore be considered a
suitable model for further studies of inhalational tularaemia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00631.x 
PMCID: PMC2676706
PMID: 19335549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

