

2165. Int J Exp Pathol. 2009 Apr;90(2):109-18. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00631.x.

Establishment of lethal inhalational infection with Francisella tularensis
(tularaemia) in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Lever MS, Savage VL, Salguero FJ, Pearce PC, Stevens DJ, Simpson AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK. mnelson@dstl.gov.uk

Susceptibility and lethality studies of inhalational tularaemia were undertaken
using the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to determine its suitability as a 
non-human primate model. Pairs of marmosets were exposed to varying challenge
doses of Francisella tularensis by the airborne route and monitored for up to 14 
days postchallenge (p.c.). Lethal infection was achieved following a retained
dose of less than 10 bacterial colony-forming units (CFU). However, precise
LD(50) determination was not possible. The model was characterized using a target
challenge dose of approximately 100 CFU. Increased core body temperature was the 
first indicator of disease, at approximately 2.5 days p.c. Overt clinical signs
were first observed 12-18 h after the temperature increase. Significantly
decreased activity was observed after approximately 3 days. All animals succumbed
to infection between 4.5 and 7 days p.c. At postmortem examination, gross
pathology was evident in the liver, spleen and lungs of all animals and high
bacterial numbers were detected in all the organs assessed. Bacteraemia was
demonstrated in all animals postmortem. Histopathological observations included
severe suppurative bronchopneumonia, severe multifocal pyogranulomatous
hepatitis, splenitis and lymphadenitis. Tularaemia disease progression in the
common marmoset therefore appears to be consistent with the disease seen in
humans and other animal models. The common marmoset may therefore be considered a
suitable model for further studies of inhalational tularaemia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00631.x 
PMCID: PMC2676706
PMID: 19335549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2166. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2009 Aug;17(8):1499-505. doi: 10.1038/oby.2009.77. Epub 
2009 Mar 26.

Characterization of obese phenotypes in a small nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Tardif SD(1), Power ML, Ross CN, Rutherford JN, Layne-Colon DG, Paulik MA.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, San Antonio, Texas, USA. tardif@uthscsa.edu

This report explores aspects of developing obesity in two captive populations of 
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small primate with a short lifespan that
may be of value in modeling chronic aspects of obesity acquisition and its
lifetime effects. Two populations were examined. In study 1, body composition,
lipid parameters, and glucose metabolic parameters were measured in a population 
of 64 adult animals. Animals classified as obese (>80th percentile relative fat
based on sex) displayed both dyslipidemia (higher triglyceride and very
low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)) and altered glucose metabolism (higher fasting
glucose and HbA(1c)). Using operational definitions of atypical values for
factors associated with metabolic syndrome in humans, five subjects (7.8%) had at
least three atypical factors and five others had two atypical factors. A
previously unreported finding in these normally sexually monomorphic primates was
higher body weight, fat weights, and percent fat in females compared to males. In
a second study, longitudinal weight data for a larger population (n = 210) were
analyzed to evaluate the development of high weight animals. Differences in
weights for animals that would exceed the 90th percentile in early adulthood were
evident from infancy, with a 15% difference in weight between future-large weight
vs. their future-normal weight litter mates as early as 4-6 months of age. The
marmoset, therefore, demonstrates similar suites of obesity-related alterations
to those seen in other primates, including humans, suggesting that this species
is worthy of consideration for obesity studies in which its fast maturity, high
fertility, relatively short lifespan, and small size may be of advantage.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2009.77 
PMCID: PMC3823549
PMID: 19325546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

