

2166. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2009 Aug;17(8):1499-505. doi: 10.1038/oby.2009.77. Epub 
2009 Mar 26.

Characterization of obese phenotypes in a small nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Tardif SD(1), Power ML, Ross CN, Rutherford JN, Layne-Colon DG, Paulik MA.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, San Antonio, Texas, USA. tardif@uthscsa.edu

This report explores aspects of developing obesity in two captive populations of 
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small primate with a short lifespan that
may be of value in modeling chronic aspects of obesity acquisition and its
lifetime effects. Two populations were examined. In study 1, body composition,
lipid parameters, and glucose metabolic parameters were measured in a population 
of 64 adult animals. Animals classified as obese (>80th percentile relative fat
based on sex) displayed both dyslipidemia (higher triglyceride and very
low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)) and altered glucose metabolism (higher fasting
glucose and HbA(1c)). Using operational definitions of atypical values for
factors associated with metabolic syndrome in humans, five subjects (7.8%) had at
least three atypical factors and five others had two atypical factors. A
previously unreported finding in these normally sexually monomorphic primates was
higher body weight, fat weights, and percent fat in females compared to males. In
a second study, longitudinal weight data for a larger population (n = 210) were
analyzed to evaluate the development of high weight animals. Differences in
weights for animals that would exceed the 90th percentile in early adulthood were
evident from infancy, with a 15% difference in weight between future-large weight
vs. their future-normal weight litter mates as early as 4-6 months of age. The
marmoset, therefore, demonstrates similar suites of obesity-related alterations
to those seen in other primates, including humans, suggesting that this species
is worthy of consideration for obesity studies in which its fast maturity, high
fertility, relatively short lifespan, and small size may be of advantage.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2009.77 
PMCID: PMC3823549
PMID: 19325546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2167. NMR Biomed. 2009 Aug;22(7):730-6. doi: 10.1002/nbm.1384.

Manganese-enhanced MRI visualizes V1 in the non-human primate visual cortex.

Bock NA(1), Kocharyan A, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1065, USA. bockn@mail.nih.gov

MRI at 7 Tesla has been used to investigate the accumulation of manganese in the 
occipital cortex of common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) after
administering four fractionated injections of 30 mg/kg MnCl(2) . 4H(2)O in the
tail vein. We found a statistically significant decrease in T(1) in the primary
(V1) and secondary (V2) areas of the visual cortex caused by an accumulation of
manganese. The larger T(1) shortening in V1 (DeltaT(1) = 640 ms) relative to V2
(DeltaT(1) = 490 ms) allowed us to robustly detect the V1/V2 border in vivo using
heavily T(1)-weighted MRI. Furthermore, the dorso-medial (DM) and middle-temporal
(MT) areas of the visual pathway could be identified by their T(1)-weighted
enhancement. We showed by comparison to histological sections stained for
cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity that the extent of V1 is accurately identified
throughout the visual cortex by manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI). This provides a
means of visualizing functional cortical regions in vivo and could be used in
longitudinal studies of phenomena such as cortical plasticity, and for
non-destructive localization of cortical regions to guide in the implementation
of functional techniques.
