

2167. NMR Biomed. 2009 Aug;22(7):730-6. doi: 10.1002/nbm.1384.

Manganese-enhanced MRI visualizes V1 in the non-human primate visual cortex.

Bock NA(1), Kocharyan A, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1065, USA. bockn@mail.nih.gov

MRI at 7 Tesla has been used to investigate the accumulation of manganese in the 
occipital cortex of common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) after
administering four fractionated injections of 30 mg/kg MnCl(2) . 4H(2)O in the
tail vein. We found a statistically significant decrease in T(1) in the primary
(V1) and secondary (V2) areas of the visual cortex caused by an accumulation of
manganese. The larger T(1) shortening in V1 (DeltaT(1) = 640 ms) relative to V2
(DeltaT(1) = 490 ms) allowed us to robustly detect the V1/V2 border in vivo using
heavily T(1)-weighted MRI. Furthermore, the dorso-medial (DM) and middle-temporal
(MT) areas of the visual pathway could be identified by their T(1)-weighted
enhancement. We showed by comparison to histological sections stained for
cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity that the extent of V1 is accurately identified
throughout the visual cortex by manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI). This provides a
means of visualizing functional cortical regions in vivo and could be used in
longitudinal studies of phenomena such as cortical plasticity, and for
non-destructive localization of cortical regions to guide in the implementation
of functional techniques.

2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.1384 
PMCID: PMC3133650
PMID: 19322808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2168. Am J Primatol. 2009 Jun;71(6):503-9. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20682.

Social learning and mother's behavior in manipulative tasks in infant marmosets.

Dell'Mour V(1), Range F, Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Wien, Austria. vera_dellmour@yahoo.de

High levels of social tolerance are considered to promote social learning, as
they allow direct observation of a manipulating conspecific and facilitate
scrounging. Owing to tolerance toward infants, infancy is thought to be
especially suited for learning socially transmitted behaviors. Despite this, few 
studies have investigated social learning of infants, particularly in
manipulative tasks where observation might be most helpful. Here, we investigated
(1) the influence of social learning on task acquisition in infant marmosets, and
(2) whether the mother augments her behavior in a way that may enhance social
learning by her infants. We tested infant and juvenile marmosets in four
different complex foraging-related tasks, featuring large living insects (two
tasks) or artificially embedded prey (two tasks). Each individual observed the
mother solving two of the tasks and served as a control in the other two tasks.
Observers manipulated more and succeeded sooner than control animals, suggesting 
that observing the mother promoted learning either directly or by decreasing
neophobia. Moreover, the data suggest that learning in 11-15 week-old infants
might be promoted actively by the mother. She solved the tasks, consumed less
food, and consumed it later than when foraging with older offspring or alone.
Furthermore, the results indicate the possible importance of the third and fourth
month of infancy as the crucial ontogenetic period for social learning in
marmosets, corroborating recent observations of free-living common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20682 
PMID: 19319974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

