

2170. Endocr Dev. 2009;15:101-134. doi: 10.1159/000207612. Epub 2009 Mar 3.

Male fertility and strategies for fertility preservation following childhood
cancer treatment.

Mitchell RT, Saunders PTK, Sharpe RM, Kelnar CJH, Wallace WHB.

Infertility in the male is a potential complication of childhood cancer treatment
for long-term survivors. The risk is dependent primarily on the treatment used,
but also on the underlying disease. Chemotherapy (especially alkylating agents)
and radiotherapy, even in low doses, may damage the seminiferous epithelium and
impair spermatogenesis in both children and adults. Leydig cell function and
testosterone production are generally preserved after chemotherapy and low dose
radiotherapy, whilst larger doses of radiotherapy may result in hypogonadism.
Patients treated with potentially gonadotoxic treatments require regular
multidisciplinary follow-up including assessment of puberty and gonadal function.
Currently the only option available for fertility preservation in young males
treated for cancer is semen cryopreservation. For pre-pubertal patients,
techniques for fertility preservation remain theoretical and as yet unproven.
These include hormonal manipulation of the gonadal environment before treatment, 
germ cell transplantation and testis xenografting, which have all shown promise
in a variety of animal studies. Refinement of these techniques requires
investigations in relevant animal models. In the present chapter we include data 
which suggest that the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkey, a New World
primate, exhibits important parallels with human testicular development and may
help us to understand why the pre-pubertal testis is vulnerable to effects of
cytotoxic therapy on future fertility.

Copyright (c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000207612 
PMID: 19293606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2171. J Med Primatol. 2009 Aug;38(4):257-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2009.00350.x.
Epub 2009 Mar 5.

Endometrial and cervical polyps in 22 baboons (Papio sp.), 5 cynomolgus macaques 
(Macaca fascicularis) and one marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Bennett MW(1), Dick EJ Jr, Schlabritz-Loutsevitch NE, Lopez-Alvarenga JC,
Williams PC, Sharp RM, Hubbard GB.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center at the Southwest Foundation for
Biomedical Research, San Antonio, TX 78245-0549, USA.

BACKGROUND: Endometrial and cervical polyps are masses of endometrium or cervical
epithelium that bulge into the uterine or cervical lumen. The physiopathology and
contributing factors of endometrial polyps development are still unknown.
METHODS: Clinical and pathology records of 28 non-human primates with
histologically confirmed endometrial and cervical polyps were reviewed.
Twenty-one baboons with endometrial polyps were evaluated for age at diagnosis,
body weight, menstrual cycle length, presence of endometriosis and adenomyosis
and number of offspring, cesarean sections, and stillbirths.
RESULTS: Endometrial polyps in baboons were associated with increased age,
decreased menstrual cycle lengths, endometriosis, and decreased parity. No
differences were found for weight, adenomyosis, or number of cesarean sections or
stillbirths.
CONCLUSIONS: Baboons are a promising model for the study of endometrial polyps
because of their similarity to humans in both the development of endometrial
polyps and association of many of the same risk factors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2009.00350.x 
PMCID: PMC2729650
PMID: 19281481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

