

2171. J Med Primatol. 2009 Aug;38(4):257-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2009.00350.x.
Epub 2009 Mar 5.

Endometrial and cervical polyps in 22 baboons (Papio sp.), 5 cynomolgus macaques 
(Macaca fascicularis) and one marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Bennett MW(1), Dick EJ Jr, Schlabritz-Loutsevitch NE, Lopez-Alvarenga JC,
Williams PC, Sharp RM, Hubbard GB.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center at the Southwest Foundation for
Biomedical Research, San Antonio, TX 78245-0549, USA.

BACKGROUND: Endometrial and cervical polyps are masses of endometrium or cervical
epithelium that bulge into the uterine or cervical lumen. The physiopathology and
contributing factors of endometrial polyps development are still unknown.
METHODS: Clinical and pathology records of 28 non-human primates with
histologically confirmed endometrial and cervical polyps were reviewed.
Twenty-one baboons with endometrial polyps were evaluated for age at diagnosis,
body weight, menstrual cycle length, presence of endometriosis and adenomyosis
and number of offspring, cesarean sections, and stillbirths.
RESULTS: Endometrial polyps in baboons were associated with increased age,
decreased menstrual cycle lengths, endometriosis, and decreased parity. No
differences were found for weight, adenomyosis, or number of cesarean sections or
stillbirths.
CONCLUSIONS: Baboons are a promising model for the study of endometrial polyps
because of their similarity to humans in both the development of endometrial
polyps and association of many of the same risk factors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2009.00350.x 
PMCID: PMC2729650
PMID: 19281481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2172. J Virol. 2009 Jun;83(11):5806-14. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00033-09. Epub 2009 Mar 11.

The marmoset model of GB virus B infections: adaptation to host phenotypic
variation.

Weatherford T(1), Chavez D, Brasky KM, Lanford RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical
Research, San Antonio, TX 78227, USA.

Worldwide, approximately 170 million people are chronically infected with
hepatitis C virus (HCV), and chronic infection frequently progresses to serious
liver disease, including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. GB virus B
(GBV-B), the virus phylogenetically most closely related to HCV, causes hepatitis
in tamarins. We have demonstrated the suitability of the tamarin as a host for
GBV-B and as a surrogate nonhuman primate model for HCV infection, and we have
initiated studies of GBV-B infection in a closely related species, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Here, we demonstrate that marmosets exhibit two
phenotypes upon infection with GBV-B: the susceptible phenotype and the partially
resistant phenotype. In addition, we identify changes that may correlate with
adaptation of the virus to the partially resistant host. GBV-B was serially
passaged five times through 14 marmosets as one lineage and two times through 6
marmosets as a second lineage. Virus adapted to the marmosets and eventually
exhibited robust infections in two separate lineages, lineages 1 and 2. A third
lineage was initiated with a molecular clone, and again, susceptible and
partially resistant phenotypes were observed. Three isolates were fully sequenced
(from lineage 1), and 21 nucleotide changes were observed, with six amino acid
changes. We speculate that the marmoset partially resistant phenotype may be due 
to a polymorphism in the marmoset population that affects critical virus-host
interactions and that wild-type GBV-B is capable of rapidly adapting to this
altered host.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00033-09 
PMCID: PMC2681958
PMID: 19279089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

