

2172. J Virol. 2009 Jun;83(11):5806-14. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00033-09. Epub 2009 Mar 11.

The marmoset model of GB virus B infections: adaptation to host phenotypic
variation.

Weatherford T(1), Chavez D, Brasky KM, Lanford RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical
Research, San Antonio, TX 78227, USA.

Worldwide, approximately 170 million people are chronically infected with
hepatitis C virus (HCV), and chronic infection frequently progresses to serious
liver disease, including cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. GB virus B
(GBV-B), the virus phylogenetically most closely related to HCV, causes hepatitis
in tamarins. We have demonstrated the suitability of the tamarin as a host for
GBV-B and as a surrogate nonhuman primate model for HCV infection, and we have
initiated studies of GBV-B infection in a closely related species, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Here, we demonstrate that marmosets exhibit two
phenotypes upon infection with GBV-B: the susceptible phenotype and the partially
resistant phenotype. In addition, we identify changes that may correlate with
adaptation of the virus to the partially resistant host. GBV-B was serially
passaged five times through 14 marmosets as one lineage and two times through 6
marmosets as a second lineage. Virus adapted to the marmosets and eventually
exhibited robust infections in two separate lineages, lineages 1 and 2. A third
lineage was initiated with a molecular clone, and again, susceptible and
partially resistant phenotypes were observed. Three isolates were fully sequenced
(from lineage 1), and 21 nucleotide changes were observed, with six amino acid
changes. We speculate that the marmoset partially resistant phenotype may be due 
to a polymorphism in the marmoset population that affects critical virus-host
interactions and that wild-type GBV-B is capable of rapidly adapting to this
altered host.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00033-09 
PMCID: PMC2681958
PMID: 19279089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2173. Primates. 2009 Jul;50(3):253-60. doi: 10.1007/s10329-009-0137-2. Epub 2009 Mar
11.

Behavioral and hormonal response of common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, to two 
environmental conditions.

Barbosa MN(1), Mota MT.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Base de Pesquisa de Endocrinologia Comportamental,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Campus Universit√°rio, Caixa Postal
1511, Natal, RN, 59078-970, Brazil.

Captive animals of several species change their behavioral pattern and hormonal
profile in response to physical (for example, cage size and temperature) and
social (for example, group size and social isolation) modification of their
environment. To evaluate the effect of environmental change in captivity, the
affiliative (contact/proximity and allogrooming) and individual (approach,
leaving, scent mark, locomotion, and autogrooming) behavior of five family groups
of common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, were recorded on weekdays (non-quiet)
and at the weekend (quiet) for two months. In addition, fecal samples were
collected for four of these groups to measure their cortisol levels under both
conditions. The behavioral pattern and hormonal profile of breeding pairs and
their offspring were modified by different management routines used in the
experimental conditions. We found that the animals spent more time in affiliative
interactions at the weekend, whereas on weekdays, they showed more individual
behaviors. Moreover, cortisol levels of breeding pairs and their offspring were
higher on weekdays, suggesting that common marmosets living in captivity react to
environmental modification by changing their behavioral and hormonal pattern.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-009-0137-2 
PMID: 19277829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

