

2174. PLoS One. 2009;4(3):e4781. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004781. Epub 2009 Mar 10.

Contrast adaptation contributes to contrast-invariance of orientation tuning of
primate V1 cells.

Nowak LG(1), Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, UniversitÃ© Toulouse 3-CNRS,
Toulouse, France. Lionel.Nowak@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

BACKGROUND: Studies in rodents and carnivores have shown that orientation tuning 
width of single neurons does not change when stimulus contrast is modified.
However, in these studies, stimuli were presented for a relatively long duration 
(e. g., 4 seconds), making it possible that contrast adaptation contributed to
contrast-invariance of orientation tuning. Our first purpose was to determine, in
marmoset area V1, whether orientation tuning is still contrast-invariant with the
stimulation duration is comparable to that of a visual fixation.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We performed extracellular recordings and
examined orientation tuning of single-units using static sine-wave gratings that 
were flashed for 200 msec. Sixteen orientations and three contrast levels,
representing low, medium and high values in the range of effective contrasts for 
each neuron, were randomly intermixed. Contrast adaptation being a slow
phenomenon, cells did not have enough time to adapt to each contrast
individually. With this stimulation protocol, we found that the tuning width
obtained at intermediate contrast was reduced to 89% (median), and that at low
contrast to 76%, of that obtained at high contrast. Therefore, when probed with
briefly flashed stimuli, orientation tuning is not contrast-invariant in marmoset
V1. Our second purpose was to determine whether contrast adaptation contributes
to contrast-invariance of orientation tuning. Stationary gratings were presented,
as previously, for 200 msec with randomly varying orientations, but the contrast 
was kept constant within stimulation blocks lasting >20 sec, allowing for
adaptation to the single contrast in use. In these conditions, tuning widths
obtained at low contrast were still significantly less than at high contrast
(median 85%). However, tuning widths obtained with medium and high contrast
stimuli no longer differed significantly.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Orientation tuning does not appear to be
contrast-invariant when briefly flashed stimuli vary in both contrast and
orientation, but contrast adaptation partially restores contrast-invariance of
orientation tuning.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004781 
PMCID: PMC2652072
PMID: 19274097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2175. J Comp Neurol. 2009 May 1;514(1):11-29. doi: 10.1002/cne.21976.

Architectural subdivisions of medial and orbital frontal cortices in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Burman KJ(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

Although the common marmoset has become a model for the study of several
neurological conditions that affect the frontal lobe, knowledge of the boundaries
of the areas located in the orbital and medial frontal regions has remained
incomplete. Here we examined histological sections stained for myelin, Nissl
substance, and cytochrome oxidase, allowing identification of likely homologues
of most of the architectural fields defined in Old World monkeys. Ventrally, we
identified three granular fields at or near the frontal pole (area 10, and the
medial and lateral subregions of area 11), and two granular fields along the
lateral margin of the orbitofrontal cortex (medial and orbital subdivisions of
area 12). More caudal and medially, dysgranular and agranular cortices included
four subdivisions of area 13 as well as rostral and caudal subdivisions of area
14 (at the ventromedial convexity). The ventral frontotemporal transition
encompassed at least two subdivisions of agranular insular cortex, as well as the
likely homologues of the gustatory cortices. Most of the medial surface was
encompassed by area 10 (which projected a caudomedial finger-like extension
toward the subgenual cortex), together with a relatively large dysgranular area
32 and an agranular area 25 (in subgenual cortex). Finally, the caudal limit of
the medial frontal cortex included two fields of agranular cingulate cortex
(areas 24a and 24b). These findings enhance our understanding of the
architectural organization of the marmoset frontal cortex and highlight a highly 
conserved basic organization across simian primates, allowing the informed
interpretation of experimental neurological studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21976 
PMID: 19260047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

