

2175. J Comp Neurol. 2009 May 1;514(1):11-29. doi: 10.1002/cne.21976.

Architectural subdivisions of medial and orbital frontal cortices in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Burman KJ(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

Although the common marmoset has become a model for the study of several
neurological conditions that affect the frontal lobe, knowledge of the boundaries
of the areas located in the orbital and medial frontal regions has remained
incomplete. Here we examined histological sections stained for myelin, Nissl
substance, and cytochrome oxidase, allowing identification of likely homologues
of most of the architectural fields defined in Old World monkeys. Ventrally, we
identified three granular fields at or near the frontal pole (area 10, and the
medial and lateral subregions of area 11), and two granular fields along the
lateral margin of the orbitofrontal cortex (medial and orbital subdivisions of
area 12). More caudal and medially, dysgranular and agranular cortices included
four subdivisions of area 13 as well as rostral and caudal subdivisions of area
14 (at the ventromedial convexity). The ventral frontotemporal transition
encompassed at least two subdivisions of agranular insular cortex, as well as the
likely homologues of the gustatory cortices. Most of the medial surface was
encompassed by area 10 (which projected a caudomedial finger-like extension
toward the subgenual cortex), together with a relatively large dysgranular area
32 and an agranular area 25 (in subgenual cortex). Finally, the caudal limit of
the medial frontal cortex included two fields of agranular cingulate cortex
(areas 24a and 24b). These findings enhance our understanding of the
architectural organization of the marmoset frontal cortex and highlight a highly 
conserved basic organization across simian primates, allowing the informed
interpretation of experimental neurological studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21976 
PMID: 19260047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2176. Hum Reprod. 2009 Jun;24(6):1359-72. doi: 10.1093/humrep/dep012. Epub 2009 Feb 27.

A novel embryonic stem cell line derived from the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) exhibiting germ cell-like characteristics.

Müller T(1), Fleischmann G, Eildermann K, Mätz-Rensing K, Horn PA, Sasaki E, Behr
R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Research Group, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Embryonic stem cells (ESC) hold great promise for the treatment of
degenerative diseases. However, before clinical application of ESC in cell
replacement therapy can be achieved, the safety and feasibility must be
extensively tested in animal models. The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) is a useful preclinical non-human primate model due to its physiological
similarities to human. Yet, few marmoset ESC lines exist and differences in their
developmental potential remain unclear.
METHODS: Blastocysts were collected and immunosurgery was performed. cjes001
cells were tested for euploidy by karyotyping. The presence of markers for
pluripotency was confirmed by immunofluorescence staining and RT-PCR. Histology
of teratoma, in vitro differentiation and embryoid body formation revealed the
differentiation potential.
RESULTS: cjes001 cells displayed a normal 46,XX karyotype. Alkaline phosphatase
activity, expression of telomerase and the transcription factors OCT4, NANOG and 
SOX2 as well as the presence of stage-specific embryonic antigen (SSEA)-3,
SSEA-4, tumor rejection antigens (TRA)-1-60, and TRA-1-81 indicated pluripotency.
Teratoma formation assay displayed derivatives of all three embryonic germ
layers. Upon non-directed differentiation, the cells expressed the germ cell
markers VASA, BOULE, germ cell nuclear factor and synaptonemal complex protein 3 
and showed co-localization of VASA protein within individual cells with the germ 
line stem cell markers CD9, CD49f, SSEA-4 and protein gene product 9.5,
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The cjes001 cells represent a new pluripotent ESC line with evidence
for enhanced spontaneous differentiation potential into germ cells. This cjes001 
line will be very valuable for comparative studies on primate ESC biology.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dep012 
PMID: 19251728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

