

2177. J Neurosci. 2009 Feb 25;29(8):2553-62. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5359-08.2009.

Wide-dynamic-range forward suppression in marmoset inferior colliculus neurons is
generated centrally and accounts for perceptual masking.

Nelson PC(1), Smith ZM, Young ED.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Hearing and Balance, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. pcnelson@jhu.edu

An organism's ability to detect and discriminate sensory inputs depends on the
recent stimulus history. For example, perceptual detection thresholds for a brief
tone can be elevated by as much as 50 dB when following a masking stimulus.
Previous work suggests that such forward masking is not a direct result of
peripheral neural adaptation; the central pathway apparently modifies the
representation in a way that further attenuates the input's response to short
probe signals. Here, we show that much of this transformation is complete by the 
level of the inferior colliculus (IC). Single-neuron extracellular responses were
recorded in the central nucleus of the awake marmoset IC. The threshold for a 20 
ms probe tone presented at best frequency was determined for various masker-probe
delays, over a range of masker sound pressure levels (SPLs) and frequencies. The 
most striking aspect of the data was the increased potency of forward maskers as 
their SPL was increased, despite the fact that the excitatory response to the
masker was often saturating or nonmonotonic over the same range of levels. This
led to probe thresholds at high masker levels that were almost always higher than
those observed in the auditory nerve. Probe threshold shifts were not usually
caused by a persistent excitatory response to the masker; instead we propose a
wide-dynamic-range inhibitory mechanism locked to sound offset as an explanation 
for several key aspects of the data. These findings further delineate the role of
subcortical auditory processing in the generation of a context-dependent
representation of ongoing acoustic scenes.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5359-08.2009 
PMCID: PMC2677200
PMID: 19244530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2178. Neuroscience. 2009 May 5;160(2):434-51. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2009.02.028. 
Epub 2009 Feb 21.

Distribution and functional characterization of pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating polypeptide receptors in the brain of non-human primates.

Jolivel V(1), Basille M, Aubert N, de Jouffrey S, Ancian P, Le Bigot JF, Noack P,
Massonneau M, Fournier A, Vaudry H, Gonzalez BJ, Vaudry D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (U413), EA 4310,
Neuronal and Neuroendocrine Differentiation and Communication, European Institute
for Peptide Research (IFRMP23), University of Rouen, 76821 Mont-Saint-Aignan,
France.

The distribution and density of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating
polypeptide (PACAP) binding sites have been investigated in the brain of the
primates Jacchus callithrix (marmoset) and Macaca fascicularis (macaque) using
[(125)I]-PACAP27 as a radioligand. PACAP binding sites were widely expressed in
the brain of these two species with particularly high densities in the septum,
hypothalamus and habenula. A moderate density of recognition sites was seen in
all subdivisions of the cerebral cortex with a heterogenous distribution, the
highest concentrations occurring in layers I and VI while the underlying white
matter was almost devoid of binding sites. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed intense expression of the mRNAs encoding the 
short and hop-1 variants of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating
polypeptide-specific receptor (PAC1-R) in the cortex of both marmoset and
macaque, whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating polypeptide mutual receptor, subtype 1 (VPAC1-R) and
vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating
polypeptide mutual receptor, subtype 2 (VPAC2-R) mRNAs were expressed at a much
lower level. In situ hybridization histochemistry showed intense expression of
PAC1-R and weak expression of VPAC1-R mRNAs in layer IV of the cerebral cortex.
Incubation of cortical tissue slices with PACAP induced a dose-dependent
stimulation of cyclic AMP formation, indicating that PACAP binding sites
correspond to functional receptors. Moreover, treatment of primate cortical
slices with 100 nM PACAP significantly reduced the activity of caspase-3, a key
enzyme of the apoptotic cascade. The present results indicate that PACAP should
exert the same neuroprotective effect in the brain of primates as in rodents and 
suggest that PAC1-R agonists may have a therapeutic value to prevent neuronal
cell death after stroke or in specific neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2009.02.028 
PMID: 19236905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

