

2179. J Comp Psychol. 2009 Feb;123(1):18-25. doi: 10.1037/a0013089.

Hand preference predicts reactions to novel foods and predators in marmosets
(Callithrix geoffroyi).

Braccini SN(1), Caine NG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University San Marcos, CA 92025,
USA.

In chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus),
left-handed individuals are less likely than right-handed individuals to explore 
new objects and situations, suggesting a relationship between the hemispheric
specialization of emotional states and motor function. To further explore this
relationship and to test the hypothesis that fearfulness is related to hand
preference, we assessed willingness to approach, sniff, and taste novel foods,
and the duration of freeze reactions in response to hawk calls, in 18 Geoffroy's 
marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi). In accordance with these hypotheses,
left-handed marmosets were slower to explore novel foods and slower to emerge
from a freeze response than right-handed marmosets. Hand preference and at least 
some features of temperament seem to be related in this and other species of
primates.

Copyright 2009 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0013089 
PMID: 19236141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2180. Primates. 2009 Jul;50(3):231-7. doi: 10.1007/s10329-009-0132-7. Epub 2009 Feb 18.

Vocalisations of wild common marmosets are influenced by diurnal and ontogenetic 
factors.

Bezerra BM(1), Souto Ada S, de Oliveira MA, Halsey LG.

Author information: 
(1)Bat Ecology and Bioacoustics Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Bristol, Woodland Road, BS8 1UG, Bristol, UK.
bruna.bezerra@bristol.ac.uk

The vocalisations of wild common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, were recorded to 
investigate whether call rate by individuals is affected by time of day, age, sex
or dominance rank within a group. We also investigated how vocalisation pitch was
affected by age, focussing on a single common call, the trill call. Adults
vocalised more than juveniles or infants during the majority of daylight hours.
Only the call rate of juveniles varied significantly over the day. No differences
were found between either sex or dominance rank with respect to rate of
vocalisations. The trill calls emitted by young wild common marmosets were of a
higher pitch than those emitted by adults. We conclude that the auditory
communication of wild common marmosets is related to the age of the animals, both
in terms of call rate and the physical characteristics of their vocalisations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-009-0132-7 
PMID: 19224328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

