

218. Brain Struct Funct. 2021 Jan;226(1):195-205. doi: 10.1007/s00429-020-02176-6.
Epub 2020 Dec 2.

Mapping the neural circuitry of predator fear in the nonhuman primate.

Montardy Q(1), Kwan WC(2), Mundinano IC(2), Fox DM(2), Wang L(1), Gross CT(3),
Bourne JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Shenzhen Key Lab of Neuropsychiatric Modulation and Collaborative Innovation
Center for Brain Science, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Brain Connectome
and Behavior, CAS Center for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence
Technology, Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute (BCBDI), Shenzhen
Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen-Hong
Kong Institute of Brain Science-Shenzhen Fundamental Research Institutions,
Shenzhen, 518055, China.
(2)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC,
3800, Australia.
(3)Epigenetics and Neurobiology Unit, EMBL Rome, European Molecular Biology
Laboratory, Via Ramarini 32, 00015, Monterotondo, RM, Italy. gross@embl.it.

In rodents, innate and learned fear of predators depends on the medial
hypothalamic defensive system, a conserved brain network that lies downstream of 
the amygdala and promotes avoidance via projections to the periaqueductal gray.
Whether this network is involved in primate fear remains unknown. To address
this, we provoked flight responses to a predator (moving snake) in the marmoset
monkey under laboratory conditions. We combined c-Fos immunolabeling and
anterograde/retrograde tracing to map the functional connectivity of the
ventromedial hypothalamus, a core node in the medial hypothalamic defensive
system. Our findings demonstrate that the ventromedial hypothalamus is recruited 
by predator exposure in primates and that anatomical connectivity of the rodent
and primate medial hypothalamic defensive system are highly conserved.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-020-02176-6 
PMCID: PMC7817595
PMID: 33263778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020 Dec;26(12):3039-3043. doi: 10.3201/eid2612.191562.

Hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae as Unexpected Cause of Fatal Outbreak in
Captive Marmosets, Brazil.

Guerra JM, Fernandes NCCA, Morales Dos Santos AL, Barrel JSP, Petri BSS, Milanelo
L, Tiba-Casas MR, Liserre AM, Gonçalves CR, Sacchi CT, Catão-Dias JL, Camargo CH.

After the sudden death of captive marmosets in São Paulo, Brazil, we conducted a 
histologic and microbiologic study. We found hyperacute septicemia caused by
hypermucoviscous sequence type 86 K2 Klebsiella pneumoniae. We implemented
prophylactic antimicrobial therapy, selected dedicated staff for marmoset
interactions, and sanitized the animals' fruit to successfully control this
outbreak.

DOI: 10.3201/eid2612.191562 
PMCID: PMC7706955
PMID: 33219810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

