

2180. Primates. 2009 Jul;50(3):231-7. doi: 10.1007/s10329-009-0132-7. Epub 2009 Feb 18.

Vocalisations of wild common marmosets are influenced by diurnal and ontogenetic 
factors.

Bezerra BM(1), Souto Ada S, de Oliveira MA, Halsey LG.

Author information: 
(1)Bat Ecology and Bioacoustics Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Bristol, Woodland Road, BS8 1UG, Bristol, UK.
bruna.bezerra@bristol.ac.uk

The vocalisations of wild common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, were recorded to 
investigate whether call rate by individuals is affected by time of day, age, sex
or dominance rank within a group. We also investigated how vocalisation pitch was
affected by age, focussing on a single common call, the trill call. Adults
vocalised more than juveniles or infants during the majority of daylight hours.
Only the call rate of juveniles varied significantly over the day. No differences
were found between either sex or dominance rank with respect to rate of
vocalisations. The trill calls emitted by young wild common marmosets were of a
higher pitch than those emitted by adults. We conclude that the auditory
communication of wild common marmosets is related to the age of the animals, both
in terms of call rate and the physical characteristics of their vocalisations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-009-0132-7 
PMID: 19224328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2181. PLoS One. 2009;4(2):e4472. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004472. Epub 2009 Feb 18.

The maintenance of traditions in marmosets: individual habit, not social
conformity? A field experiment.

Pesendorfer MB(1), Gunhold T, Schiel N, Souto A, Huber L, Range F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria. mario.pesendorfer@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Social conformity is a cornerstone of human culture because it
accelerates and maintains the spread of behaviour within a group. Few empirical
studies have investigated the role of social conformity in the maintenance of
traditions despite an increasing body of literature on the formation of
behavioural patterns in non-human animals. The current report presents a field
experiment with free-ranging marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) which investigated
whether social conformity is necessary for the maintenance of behavioural
patterns within groups or whether individual effects such as habit formation
would suffice.
METHODS: Using a two-action apparatus, we established alternative behavioural
patterns in six family groups composed of 36 individuals. These groups
experienced only one technique during a training phase and were thereafter tested
with two techniques available. The monkeys reliably maintained the trained method
over a period of three weeks, despite discovering the alternative technique.
Three additional groups were given the same number of sessions, but those 21
individuals could freely choose the method to obtain a reward. In these control
groups, an overall bias towards one of the two methods was observed, but animals 
with a different preference did not adjust towards the group norm. Thirteen of
the fifteen animals that discovered both techniques remained with the action with
which they were initially successful, independent of the group preference and the
type of action (Binomial test: exp. proportion: 0.5, p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that the maintenance of behavioural patterns
within groups 1) could be explained by the first rewarded manipulation and
subsequent habit formation and 2) do not require social conformity as a
mechanism. After an initial spread of a behaviour throughout a group, this
mechanism may lead to a superficial appearance of conformity without the
involvement of such a socially and cognitively complex mechanism. This is the
first time that such an experiment has been conducted with free-ranging primates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004472 
PMCID: PMC2636861
PMID: 19223965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

