

2181. PLoS One. 2009;4(2):e4472. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004472. Epub 2009 Feb 18.

The maintenance of traditions in marmosets: individual habit, not social
conformity? A field experiment.

Pesendorfer MB(1), Gunhold T, Schiel N, Souto A, Huber L, Range F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria. mario.pesendorfer@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Social conformity is a cornerstone of human culture because it
accelerates and maintains the spread of behaviour within a group. Few empirical
studies have investigated the role of social conformity in the maintenance of
traditions despite an increasing body of literature on the formation of
behavioural patterns in non-human animals. The current report presents a field
experiment with free-ranging marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) which investigated
whether social conformity is necessary for the maintenance of behavioural
patterns within groups or whether individual effects such as habit formation
would suffice.
METHODS: Using a two-action apparatus, we established alternative behavioural
patterns in six family groups composed of 36 individuals. These groups
experienced only one technique during a training phase and were thereafter tested
with two techniques available. The monkeys reliably maintained the trained method
over a period of three weeks, despite discovering the alternative technique.
Three additional groups were given the same number of sessions, but those 21
individuals could freely choose the method to obtain a reward. In these control
groups, an overall bias towards one of the two methods was observed, but animals 
with a different preference did not adjust towards the group norm. Thirteen of
the fifteen animals that discovered both techniques remained with the action with
which they were initially successful, independent of the group preference and the
type of action (Binomial test: exp. proportion: 0.5, p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that the maintenance of behavioural patterns
within groups 1) could be explained by the first rewarded manipulation and
subsequent habit formation and 2) do not require social conformity as a
mechanism. After an initial spread of a behaviour throughout a group, this
mechanism may lead to a superficial appearance of conformity without the
involvement of such a socially and cognitively complex mechanism. This is the
first time that such an experiment has been conducted with free-ranging primates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004472 
PMCID: PMC2636861
PMID: 19223965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2182. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 Feb;64(2):199-201. doi:
10.1093/gerona/gln060. Epub 2009 Feb 17.

Comparative biology of aging.

Austad SN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, Barshop Institute for Longevity
and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health Science Center-San Antonio, San
Antonio, TX 78245-3207, USA. austad@uthscsa.edu

Virtually, all research on basic mechanisms of aging has used species that are
short lived and thus demonstrably unsuccessful at combating basic aging
processes. A novel comparative approach would use a diversity of populations and 
species, focusing on those with particularly long, healthy lives, seeking the
causative mechanisms that distinguish them from shorter lived relatives. Species 
of interest from this perspective include the naked mole rat, a mouse-size rodent
that lives up to 30 years in the laboratory, and the little brown bat, which
lives up to 34 years in the wild. Comparisons among dogs of different sizes,
which differ by more than 50% in health span might also prove rewarding, as might
novel species chosen because of their similarity to humans in certain key traits.
Primates, because of their sophisticated cognitive ability, are a group of
special value, and small, short-lived primates like the common marmoset might
prove especially beneficial. Cell repositories and tissue banks from key species,
as well as genomic and analytic tools optimized for comparative studies, would
make valuable contributions to a new comparative approach to basic aging
research.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gln060 
PMCID: PMC2655036
PMID: 19223603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

