

2182. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 Feb;64(2):199-201. doi:
10.1093/gerona/gln060. Epub 2009 Feb 17.

Comparative biology of aging.

Austad SN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, Barshop Institute for Longevity
and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health Science Center-San Antonio, San
Antonio, TX 78245-3207, USA. austad@uthscsa.edu

Virtually, all research on basic mechanisms of aging has used species that are
short lived and thus demonstrably unsuccessful at combating basic aging
processes. A novel comparative approach would use a diversity of populations and 
species, focusing on those with particularly long, healthy lives, seeking the
causative mechanisms that distinguish them from shorter lived relatives. Species 
of interest from this perspective include the naked mole rat, a mouse-size rodent
that lives up to 30 years in the laboratory, and the little brown bat, which
lives up to 34 years in the wild. Comparisons among dogs of different sizes,
which differ by more than 50% in health span might also prove rewarding, as might
novel species chosen because of their similarity to humans in certain key traits.
Primates, because of their sophisticated cognitive ability, are a group of
special value, and small, short-lived primates like the common marmoset might
prove especially beneficial. Cell repositories and tissue banks from key species,
as well as genomic and analytic tools optimized for comparative studies, would
make valuable contributions to a new comparative approach to basic aging
research.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gln060 
PMCID: PMC2655036
PMID: 19223603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2183. Nucl Med Biol. 2009 Feb;36(2):155-62. doi: 10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2008.11.006.

Preparation and evaluation of ethyl [(18)F]fluoroacetate as a proradiotracer of
[(18)F]fluoroacetate for the measurement of glial metabolism by PET.

Mori T(1), Sun LQ, Kobayashi M, Kiyono Y, Okazawa H, Furukawa T, Kawashima H,
Welch MJ, Fujibayashi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Imaging Research Center, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193,
Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Changes in glial metabolism in brain ischemia, Alzheimer's disease,
depression, schizophrenia, epilepsy and manganese neurotoxicity have been
reported in recent studies. Therefore, it is very important to measure glial
metabolism in vivo for the elucidation and diagnosis of these diseases.
Radiolabeled acetate is a good candidate for this purpose, but acetate has little
uptake in the brain due to its low lipophilicity. We have designed a new
proradiotracer, ethyl [(18)F]fluoroacetate ([(18)F]EFA), which is
[(18)F]fluoroacetate ([(18)F]FA) esterified with ethanol, to increase the
lipophilicity of fluoroacetate (FA), allowing the measurement of glial
metabolism.
METHODS: The synthesis of [(18)F]EFA was achieved using ethyl O-mesyl-glycolate
as precursor. The blood-brain barrier permeability of ethyl
[1-(14)C]fluoroacetate ([(14)C]EFA) was estimated by a brain uptake index (BUI)
method. Hydrolysis of [(14)C]EFA in the brain was calculated by the fraction of
radioactivity in lipophilic and water fractions of homogenized brain. Using the
plasma of five animal species, the stability of [(14)C]EFA was measured.
Biodistribution studies of [(18)F]EFA in ddY mice were carried out and compared
with [(18)F]FA. Positron emission tomography (PET) scanning using common
marmosets was performed for 90 min postadministration. At 60 min postinjection of
[(18)F]EFA, metabolite studies were performed. Organs were dissected from the
marmosets, and extracted metabolites were analyzed with a thin-layer
chromatography method.
RESULTS: The synthesis of [(18)F]EFA was accomplished in a short time (29 min)
and with a reproducible radiochemical yield of 28.6+/-3.6% (decay corrected) and 
a high radiochemical purity of more than 95%. In the brain permeability study,
the BUI of [(14)C]EFA was 3.8 times higher than that of sodium
[1-(14)C]fluoroacetate. [(14)C]EFA was hydrolyzed rapidly in rat brains. In
stability studies using the plasma of five animal species, [(14)C]EFA was stable 
only in primate plasma. Biodistribution studies in mice showed that the uptake of
[(18)F]EFA in selected organs was higher than that of [(18)F]FA. From nonprimate 
PET studies, [(18)F]EFA was initially taken into the brain after injection.
Metabolites related to the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle were detected in common
marmoset brain.
CONCLUSION: [(18)F]EFA rapidly enters the brain and is then converted into TCA
cycle metabolites in the brains of common marmosets. [(18)F]EFA shows promise as 
a proradiotracer for the measurement of glial metabolism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2008.11.006 
PMID: 19217527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

