

2183. Nucl Med Biol. 2009 Feb;36(2):155-62. doi: 10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2008.11.006.

Preparation and evaluation of ethyl [(18)F]fluoroacetate as a proradiotracer of
[(18)F]fluoroacetate for the measurement of glial metabolism by PET.

Mori T(1), Sun LQ, Kobayashi M, Kiyono Y, Okazawa H, Furukawa T, Kawashima H,
Welch MJ, Fujibayashi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Imaging Research Center, University of Fukui, Fukui 910-1193,
Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Changes in glial metabolism in brain ischemia, Alzheimer's disease,
depression, schizophrenia, epilepsy and manganese neurotoxicity have been
reported in recent studies. Therefore, it is very important to measure glial
metabolism in vivo for the elucidation and diagnosis of these diseases.
Radiolabeled acetate is a good candidate for this purpose, but acetate has little
uptake in the brain due to its low lipophilicity. We have designed a new
proradiotracer, ethyl [(18)F]fluoroacetate ([(18)F]EFA), which is
[(18)F]fluoroacetate ([(18)F]FA) esterified with ethanol, to increase the
lipophilicity of fluoroacetate (FA), allowing the measurement of glial
metabolism.
METHODS: The synthesis of [(18)F]EFA was achieved using ethyl O-mesyl-glycolate
as precursor. The blood-brain barrier permeability of ethyl
[1-(14)C]fluoroacetate ([(14)C]EFA) was estimated by a brain uptake index (BUI)
method. Hydrolysis of [(14)C]EFA in the brain was calculated by the fraction of
radioactivity in lipophilic and water fractions of homogenized brain. Using the
plasma of five animal species, the stability of [(14)C]EFA was measured.
Biodistribution studies of [(18)F]EFA in ddY mice were carried out and compared
with [(18)F]FA. Positron emission tomography (PET) scanning using common
marmosets was performed for 90 min postadministration. At 60 min postinjection of
[(18)F]EFA, metabolite studies were performed. Organs were dissected from the
marmosets, and extracted metabolites were analyzed with a thin-layer
chromatography method.
RESULTS: The synthesis of [(18)F]EFA was accomplished in a short time (29 min)
and with a reproducible radiochemical yield of 28.6+/-3.6% (decay corrected) and 
a high radiochemical purity of more than 95%. In the brain permeability study,
the BUI of [(14)C]EFA was 3.8 times higher than that of sodium
[1-(14)C]fluoroacetate. [(14)C]EFA was hydrolyzed rapidly in rat brains. In
stability studies using the plasma of five animal species, [(14)C]EFA was stable 
only in primate plasma. Biodistribution studies in mice showed that the uptake of
[(18)F]EFA in selected organs was higher than that of [(18)F]FA. From nonprimate 
PET studies, [(18)F]EFA was initially taken into the brain after injection.
Metabolites related to the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle were detected in common
marmoset brain.
CONCLUSION: [(18)F]EFA rapidly enters the brain and is then converted into TCA
cycle metabolites in the brains of common marmosets. [(18)F]EFA shows promise as 
a proradiotracer for the measurement of glial metabolism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2008.11.006 
PMID: 19217527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2184. Mol Pharmacol. 2009 May;75(5):1005-13. doi: 10.1124/mol.108.053702. Epub 2009 Feb
11.

Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate is a highly potent agonist for the human constitutive 
androstane receptor splice variant CAR2.

DeKeyser JG(1), Stagliano MC, Auerbach SS, Prabhu KS, Jones AD, Omiecinski CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Toxicology and Carcinogenesis, Department of Veterinary
and Biomedical Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA
16802, USA.

The human constitutive androstane receptor (CAR, CAR1) regulates the expression
of genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism in the liver. The CAR gene uses
multiple alternative splicing events during pre-mRNA processing, thereby
enhancing the CAR transcriptome. Previous reports have identified two prominent
human CAR variants, CAR2 and CAR3, that possess four- and five-amino acid
insertions in their ligand binding domains, respectively. Unlike the
constitutively active reference form of the receptor, we now demonstrate that
CAR2 is a ligand-activated receptor and comprises approximately 30% of the
reference transcript level in human liver tissues in human hepatocytes.
Furthermore, we identify the common plasticizer, di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
(DEHP), as a highly potent and uniquely selective agonist of CAR2. Results from
reporter transactivation and mammalian two-hybrid assays reveal that DEHP
activates CAR2 at low nanomolar concentrations, results further supported by
analysis of CAR target gene expression in primary human hepatocytes. In addition,
comparative genomic analyses show that the typical mouse, rat, and marmoset
models of DEHP toxicity cannot accurately profile potential human toxicity
because of these species' inability to generate a CAR2-like transcript. The
discovery that CAR2 is an ultimate human DEHP receptor identifies a novel pathway
modulating human DEHP toxicity with potential clinical implications for a subset 
of patients undergoing critical care medical interventions.

DOI: 10.1124/mol.108.053702 
PMCID: PMC2672810
PMID: 19211671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

