

2187. J Vis. 2008 Oct 22;8(10):7.1-16. doi: 10.1167/8.10.7.

Color signals in the primary visual cortex of marmosets.

Buzás P(1), Szmajda BA, Hashemi-Nezhad M, Dreher B, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Australia.
pbuzas@unimelb.edu.au

This study concerns the input from short-wavelength sensitive (S) cone
photoreceptors to the primary visual cortex (striate cortex, Brodmann area 17,
area V1) in marmosets. Signals from S-cones are thought to reach V1 by way of the
koniocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. However, it is not
known whether the S-cone afferent signals cause selective activation of
cytochrome oxidase-rich cortical "blob" domains. To address this question,
intrinsic optical signals and extracellular responses of V1 neurons were
recorded. Stimuli consisted of drifting achromatic gratings and gratings that
stimulated selectively either the S-cones or the medium-long wavelength sensitive
(ML) cones. All stimuli produced contrast-dependent activation throughout the
imaged regions of V1. The S- and ML-cone-selective stimuli produced activation
levels of respectively 30% and 80% of that to achromatic gratings. No spatial
variation in the strength of S-cone activation was apparent, and the ratio of S
to ML activation was constant across all imaged regions. Consistently, in all of 
the single neurons recorded from V1, the functional input from S-cones was weaker
than the input from ML-cones. We conclude that in the primary visual cortex of
marmosets, S-cone signals are uniformly distributed.

DOI: 10.1167/8.10.7 
PMID: 19146349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2188. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Mar;296(3):E520-31. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.90895.2008. Epub 2009 Jan 13.

KiSS-1 in the mammalian ovary: distribution of kisspeptin in human and marmoset
and alterations in KiSS-1 mRNA levels in a rat model of ovulatory dysfunction.

Gaytán F(1), Gaytán M, Castellano JM, Romero M, Roa J, Aparicio B, Garrido N,
Sánchez-Criado JE, Millar RP, Pellicer A, Fraser HM, Tena-Sempere M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Córdoba, Avda. Menéndez Pidal s/n,
14004 Córdoba, Spain. fi1tesem@uco.es

Kisspeptins, the products of the KiSS-1 gene acting via G protein-coupled
receptor 54 (GPR54), have recently emerged as pivotal signals in the hypothalamic
network triggering the preovulatory surge of gonadotropins and, hence, ovulation.
Additional actions of kisspeptins at other levels of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis have been suggested but remain to date
scarcely studied. We report herein the pattern of expression of KiSS-1 and GPR54 
in the human and nonhuman primate ovary and evaluate changes in ovarian KiSS-1
expression in a rat model of ovulatory dysfunction. KiSS-1 and GPR54 mRNAs were
detected in human ovarian tissue and cultured granulosa-lutein cells. In good
agreement, kisspeptin immunoreactivity was observed in cyclic human and marmoset 
ovaries, with prominent signals in the theca layer of growing follicles, corpora 
lutea, interstitial gland, and ovarian surface epithelium. GPR54 immunoreactivity
was also found in human theca and luteal cells. Administration of indomethacin to
cyclic female rats disturbed ovulation and resulted in a dramatic drop in ovarian
KiSS-1, but not GPR54, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), or progesterone receptor, mRNA
levels at the time of ovulation; an effect mimicked by the selective COX-2
inhibitor NS398 and rescued by coadministration of PGE(2). Likewise, the
stimulatory effect of human choriogonadotropin on ovarian KiSS-1 expression was
partially blunted by indomethacin. In contrast, KiSS-1 mRNA levels remained
unaltered in another model of ovulatory failure, i.e., the RU486-treated rat. In 
summary, we document for the first time the expression of KiSS-1/kisspeptin and
GPR54 in the human and nonhuman primate ovary. In addition, we provide evidence
for the ability of inhibitors of COX-2, known to disturb follicular rupture and
ovulation, to selectively alter the expression of KiSS-1 gene in rat ovary.
Altogether, our results are suggestive of a conserved role of local KiSS-1 in the
direct control of ovarian functions in mammals.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.90895.2008 
PMID: 19141682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

