

2189. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2009 Jul;139(3):353-67. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20991.

The functional correlates of jaw-muscle fiber architecture in tree-gouging and
nongouging callitrichid monkeys.

Taylor AB(1), Eng CM, Anapol FC, Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Doctor of Physical Therapy Division, Department of Community and Family
Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine, Box 104002, Durham, NC 27708, USA. 
andrea.taylor@duke.edu

Common (Callithrix jacchus) and pygmy (Cebuella pygmaea) marmosets and cotton-top
tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) share broadly similar diets of fruits, insects, and
tree exudates. Marmosets, however, differ from tamarins in actively gouging trees
with their anterior dentition to elicit tree exudates flow. Tree gouging in
common marmosets involves the generation of relatively wide jaw gapes, but not
necessarily relatively large bite forces. We compared fiber architecture of the
masseter and temporalis muscles in C. jacchus (N = 18), C. pygmaea (N = 5), and
S. oedipus (N = 13). We tested the hypothesis that tree-gouging marmosets would
exhibit relatively longer fibers and other architectural variables that
facilitate muscle stretch. As an architectural trade-off between maximizing
muscle excursion/contraction velocity and muscle force, we also tested the
hypothesis that marmosets would exhibit relatively less pinnate fibers, smaller
physiologic cross-sectional areas (PCSA), and lower priority indices (I) for
force. As predicted, marmosets display relatively longer-fibered muscles, a
higher ratio of fiber length to muscle mass, and a relatively greater potential
excursion of the distal tendon attachments, all of which favor muscle stretch.
Marmosets further display relatively smaller PCSAs and other features that
reflect a reduced capacity for force generation. The longer fibers and attendant 
higher contraction velocities likely facilitate the production of relatively wide
jaw gapes and the capacity to generate more power from their jaw muscles during
gouging. The observed functional trade-off between muscle excursion/contraction
velocity and muscle force suggests that primate jaw-muscle architecture reflects 
evolutionary changes related to jaw movements as one of a number of functional
demands imposed on the masticatory apparatus.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20991 
PMID: 19140215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2190. Am J Primatol. 2009 Apr;71(4):333-42. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20657.

Dialects in pygmy marmosets? Population variation in call structure.

de la Torre S(1), Snowdon CT.

Author information: 
(1)College of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Department of Ecology,
Universidad San Francisco de Quito, Cumbay√°-Quito, Ecuador. stella@usfq.edu.ec

Population variation in primate vocal structure has been rarely observed. Here,
we report significant population differences in the structure of two
vocalizations in wild pygmy marmosets (Trills and J calls). We studied 14 groups 
of pygmy marmosets Callithrix (Cebuella) pygmaea pygmaea from five populations in
northeastern Ecuador. We analyzed the acoustic structure of Trills and J calls
recorded from two adult animals in each group through focal samples. Although
individuals and groups within a population differed in call structure, we found
consistent structural differences at a population level for Trills and J calls.
Pair-wise comparisons for the two call types point to San Pablo and Amazoonico as
the populations that differed the most, whereas Hormiga and Zancudococha showed
the least differences. Discriminant function analysis indicates that calls from
each population could be classified accurately at rates significantly above
chance. Habitat acoustics, social factors and genetic drift may explain
interpopulation vocal differences. This is the first evidence of
within-subspecies vocal differences, or dialects, in wild populations of a
neotropical primate species.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20657 
PMID: 19132731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

