

2190. Am J Primatol. 2009 Apr;71(4):333-42. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20657.

Dialects in pygmy marmosets? Population variation in call structure.

de la Torre S(1), Snowdon CT.

Author information: 
(1)College of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Department of Ecology,
Universidad San Francisco de Quito, Cumbay√°-Quito, Ecuador. stella@usfq.edu.ec

Population variation in primate vocal structure has been rarely observed. Here,
we report significant population differences in the structure of two
vocalizations in wild pygmy marmosets (Trills and J calls). We studied 14 groups 
of pygmy marmosets Callithrix (Cebuella) pygmaea pygmaea from five populations in
northeastern Ecuador. We analyzed the acoustic structure of Trills and J calls
recorded from two adult animals in each group through focal samples. Although
individuals and groups within a population differed in call structure, we found
consistent structural differences at a population level for Trills and J calls.
Pair-wise comparisons for the two call types point to San Pablo and Amazoonico as
the populations that differed the most, whereas Hormiga and Zancudococha showed
the least differences. Discriminant function analysis indicates that calls from
each population could be classified accurately at rates significantly above
chance. Habitat acoustics, social factors and genetic drift may explain
interpopulation vocal differences. This is the first evidence of
within-subspecies vocal differences, or dialects, in wild populations of a
neotropical primate species.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20657 
PMID: 19132731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2191. Neurobiol Dis. 2009 Aug;35(2):184-92. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.11.010. Epub 2008
Dec 9.

Dopamine D3 receptor stimulation underlies the development of L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia in animal models of Parkinson's disease.

Visanji NP(1), Fox SH, Johnston T, Reyes G, Millan MJ, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, 399 Bathurst Street, MC11-419, Toronto,
Ontario M5T 2S8, Canada.

Development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a major problem in the
long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Sensitization to L-DOPA
correlates with ectopic expression of D3 dopamine receptors in the striatum,
implicating D3 receptors in development of LID. We demonstrate that the selective
D3 antagonist S33084 abolishes development of LID over 30 days in MPTP-lesioned
marmosets without effecting the anti-parkinsonian actions of L-DOPA. Furthermore,
following a 14 day washout, when challenged with L-DOPA in the absence of S33084,
these animals continued to exhibit reduced LID. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat,
S33084 similarly attenuated development of behavioural sensitization to L-DOPA.
Additionally, L-DOPA-induced elevations in striatal pre-proenkephalin-A (PPE-A)
(but not PPE-B, phospho[Thr(34)]DARPP-32, D1, and D2 receptor mRNA or D3 receptor
levels) were reduced in S33084 treated animals. Our data suggest a role for D3
receptors in the development of LID and suggest that initiating L-DOPA treatment 
with a D3 antagonist may reduce the development of LID in PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.11.010 
PMID: 19118628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

