

2191. Neurobiol Dis. 2009 Aug;35(2):184-92. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.11.010. Epub 2008
Dec 9.

Dopamine D3 receptor stimulation underlies the development of L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia in animal models of Parkinson's disease.

Visanji NP(1), Fox SH, Johnston T, Reyes G, Millan MJ, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, 399 Bathurst Street, MC11-419, Toronto,
Ontario M5T 2S8, Canada.

Development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a major problem in the
long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Sensitization to L-DOPA
correlates with ectopic expression of D3 dopamine receptors in the striatum,
implicating D3 receptors in development of LID. We demonstrate that the selective
D3 antagonist S33084 abolishes development of LID over 30 days in MPTP-lesioned
marmosets without effecting the anti-parkinsonian actions of L-DOPA. Furthermore,
following a 14 day washout, when challenged with L-DOPA in the absence of S33084,
these animals continued to exhibit reduced LID. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat,
S33084 similarly attenuated development of behavioural sensitization to L-DOPA.
Additionally, L-DOPA-induced elevations in striatal pre-proenkephalin-A (PPE-A)
(but not PPE-B, phospho[Thr(34)]DARPP-32, D1, and D2 receptor mRNA or D3 receptor
levels) were reduced in S33084 treated animals. Our data suggest a role for D3
receptors in the development of LID and suggest that initiating L-DOPA treatment 
with a D3 antagonist may reduce the development of LID in PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.11.010 
PMID: 19118628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2192. J Neurosci. 2008 Dec 31;28(53):14467-80. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3086-08.2008.

Sensory responses during sleep in primate primary and secondary auditory cortex.

Issa EB(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.

Most sensory stimuli do not reach conscious perception during sleep. It has been 
thought that the thalamus prevents the relay of sensory information to cortex
during sleep, but the consequences for cortical responses to sensory signals in
this physiological state remain unclear. We recorded from two auditory cortical
areas downstream of the thalamus in naturally sleeping marmoset monkeys. Single
neurons in primary auditory cortex either increased or decreased their responses 
during sleep compared with wakefulness. In lateral belt, a secondary auditory
cortical area, the response modulation was also bidirectional and showed no clear
systematic depressive effect of sleep. When averaged across neurons, sound-evoked
activity in these two auditory cortical areas was surprisingly well preserved
during sleep. Neural responses to acoustic stimulation were present during both
slow-wave and rapid-eye movement sleep, were repeatedly observed over multiple
sleep cycles, and demonstrated similar discharge patterns to the responses
recorded during wakefulness in the same neuron. Our results suggest that the
thalamus is not as effective a gate for the flow of sensory information as
previously thought. At the cortical stage, a novel pattern of
activation/deactivation appears across neurons. Because the neural signal reaches
as far as secondary auditory cortex, this leaves open the possibility of altered 
sensory processing of auditory information during sleep.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3086-08.2008 
PMCID: PMC3844765
PMID: 19118181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

