

2195. Reproduction. 2009 Mar;137(3):517-25. doi: 10.1530/REP-08-0417. Epub 2008 Dec 23.

The hormonal induction of cervical remodeling in the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

Simon C(1), Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Leipzig,
Germany.

Controversy still exists regarding the involvement of relaxin (RLX) in cervical
reorganization throughout parturition in the human, despite its well-known role
in facilitating extensive extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling in diverse
organs. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine the influence of
RLX and estrogen (E2) on the cervical tissue of the common marmoset monkey. Two
experimental designs were used: 1) in vivo analysis of the intracervical diameter
under locally applied RLX and 2) ovariectomized (ov) marmosets were treated
systemically with either recombinant human (rh) RLX, E2 or rhRLX+E2 to examine
their action on the cervix. In vivo-locally applied rhRLX induced a distinct and 
significant widening of the cervix (before: 4.8+/-1.1 mm versus after: 5.7+/-0.9 
mm in diameter; P<0.030, MV+/-S.E.M.). This widening effect was most pronounced
in animals without previous pregnancies. In vitro investigation of cervical
tissue showed significantly increased wet weights after all three hormone
treatments (E2: 0.27+/-0.07 g, RLX: 0.25+/-0.04 g, E2+RLX: 0.30+/-0.11 g; all
P<0.05; MV+/-S.E.M.) versus controls (0.10+/-0.04 g). Furthermore, morphological 
changes such as loosening of the connective tissue structure and decline in
collagen content, an increase in the number of eosinophils, increased the
expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP1) and MMP2, as well as gene and
protein expression of the RLX receptor RXFP1 could be detected in the cervical
tissue after all hormone treatments, compared with controls. In summary, RLX has 
a potent widening effect on the cervix of the common marmoset monkey. Although E2
is not required for this RLX effect, a combined application of E2 and RLX induced
the most prominent cervical ripening.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-08-0417 
PMID: 19106202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2196. Optom Vis Sci. 2009 Jan;86(1):E31-9. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e318194072e.

Imposed anisometropia, accommodation, and regulation of refractive state.

Troilo D(1), Totonelly K, Harb E.

Author information: 
(1)State University of New York, State College of Optometry, New York, New York
10036, USA. dtroilo@sunyopt.edu

PURPOSE: To determine the effects of imposed anisometropic retinal defocus on
accommodation, ocular growth, and refractive state changes in marmosets.
METHODS: Marmosets were raised with extended-wear soft contact lenses for an
average duration of 10 weeks beginning at an average age of 76 d. Experimental
animals wore either a positive or negative power contact lens over one eye and a 
plano lens or no lens over the other. Another group wore binocular lenses of
equal magnitude but opposite sign. Untreated marmosets served as controls and
three wore plano lenses monocularly. Cycloplegic refractive state, corneal
curvature, and vitreous chamber depth were measured before, during, and after the
period of lens wear. To investigate the accommodative response, the effective
refractive state was measured through each anisometropic condition at varying
accommodative stimuli positions using an infrared refractometer.
RESULTS: Eye growth and refractive state are significantly correlated with the
sign and power of the contact lens worn. The eyes of marmosets reared with
monocular negative power lenses had longer vitreous chambers and were myopic
relative to contralateral control eyes (p < 0.01). Monocular positive power
lenses produced a significant reduction in vitreous chamber depth and hyperopia
relative to the contralateral control eyes (p < 0.05). In marmosets reared
binocularly with lenses of opposite sign, we found larger interocular differences
in vitreous chamber depths and refractive state (p < 0.001). Accommodation
influences the defocus experienced through the lenses, however, the mean
effective refractive state was still hyperopia in the negative-lens-treated eyes 
and myopia in the positive-lens-treated eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Imposed anisometropia effectively alters marmoset eye growth and
refractive state to compensate for the imposed defocus. The response to imposed
hyperopia is larger and faster than the response to imposed myopia. The pattern
of accommodation under imposed anisometropia produces effective refractive states
that are consistent with the changes in eye growth and refractive state observed.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e318194072e 
PMCID: PMC2702514
PMID: 19104464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

