

2196. Optom Vis Sci. 2009 Jan;86(1):E31-9. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e318194072e.

Imposed anisometropia, accommodation, and regulation of refractive state.

Troilo D(1), Totonelly K, Harb E.

Author information: 
(1)State University of New York, State College of Optometry, New York, New York
10036, USA. dtroilo@sunyopt.edu

PURPOSE: To determine the effects of imposed anisometropic retinal defocus on
accommodation, ocular growth, and refractive state changes in marmosets.
METHODS: Marmosets were raised with extended-wear soft contact lenses for an
average duration of 10 weeks beginning at an average age of 76 d. Experimental
animals wore either a positive or negative power contact lens over one eye and a 
plano lens or no lens over the other. Another group wore binocular lenses of
equal magnitude but opposite sign. Untreated marmosets served as controls and
three wore plano lenses monocularly. Cycloplegic refractive state, corneal
curvature, and vitreous chamber depth were measured before, during, and after the
period of lens wear. To investigate the accommodative response, the effective
refractive state was measured through each anisometropic condition at varying
accommodative stimuli positions using an infrared refractometer.
RESULTS: Eye growth and refractive state are significantly correlated with the
sign and power of the contact lens worn. The eyes of marmosets reared with
monocular negative power lenses had longer vitreous chambers and were myopic
relative to contralateral control eyes (p < 0.01). Monocular positive power
lenses produced a significant reduction in vitreous chamber depth and hyperopia
relative to the contralateral control eyes (p < 0.05). In marmosets reared
binocularly with lenses of opposite sign, we found larger interocular differences
in vitreous chamber depths and refractive state (p < 0.001). Accommodation
influences the defocus experienced through the lenses, however, the mean
effective refractive state was still hyperopia in the negative-lens-treated eyes 
and myopia in the positive-lens-treated eyes.
CONCLUSIONS: Imposed anisometropia effectively alters marmoset eye growth and
refractive state to compensate for the imposed defocus. The response to imposed
hyperopia is larger and faster than the response to imposed myopia. The pattern
of accommodation under imposed anisometropia produces effective refractive states
that are consistent with the changes in eye growth and refractive state observed.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e318194072e 
PMCID: PMC2702514
PMID: 19104464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2197. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2009 Jul;12(6):761-72. doi:
10.1017/S1461145708009723. Epub 2008 Dec 23.

Gene expression in the anterior cingulate cortex and amygdala of adolescent
marmoset monkeys following parental separations in infancy.

Law AJ(1), Pei Q, Feldon J, Pryce CR, Harrison PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Warneford Hospital, Oxford,
UK.

Early life adversities are risk factors for later mood and emotional disorders.
Repeated separation of infant marmosets from their parents provides a validated
primate model of depression vulnerability, producing in-vivo biochemical and
behavioural effects indicative of persistently altered stress reactivity and mild
anhedonia. Here we report the long-term effect (in adolescence) of this
intervention on the expression of synaptophysin, GAP-43, VGluT1, VGAT, MAP-2,
spinophilin, and 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors, in the anterior cingulate cortex
(ACC; supragenual and subgenual areas) and amygdala (lateral, basal and central
nuclei). These genes and regions are implicated in the response to stress or in
mood disorder. The profile of 5-HT1A receptor binding in ACC was affected by
early deprivation, notably in the subgenual region, with a decrease in deep
laminae but an increase in superficial laminae. Following early deprivation,
spinophilin mRNA was reduced in subgenual ACC. In the amygdala, no significant
effects of the manipulation were seen, but expression of several transcripts was 
sexually dimorphic. There were correlations between expression of some
transcripts and in-vivo measurements. The results show that early deprivation in 
a non-human primate has a selective long-term effect on expression of genes in
the ACC, particularly the subgenual area. The results differ from those reported 
in the hippocampus of the same animals, indicating the presence of limbic
region-specific long-term molecular responses to early life stress.

DOI: 10.1017/S1461145708009723 
PMCID: PMC2695425
PMID: 19102816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

