

2197. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2009 Jul;12(6):761-72. doi:
10.1017/S1461145708009723. Epub 2008 Dec 23.

Gene expression in the anterior cingulate cortex and amygdala of adolescent
marmoset monkeys following parental separations in infancy.

Law AJ(1), Pei Q, Feldon J, Pryce CR, Harrison PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Warneford Hospital, Oxford,
UK.

Early life adversities are risk factors for later mood and emotional disorders.
Repeated separation of infant marmosets from their parents provides a validated
primate model of depression vulnerability, producing in-vivo biochemical and
behavioural effects indicative of persistently altered stress reactivity and mild
anhedonia. Here we report the long-term effect (in adolescence) of this
intervention on the expression of synaptophysin, GAP-43, VGluT1, VGAT, MAP-2,
spinophilin, and 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors, in the anterior cingulate cortex
(ACC; supragenual and subgenual areas) and amygdala (lateral, basal and central
nuclei). These genes and regions are implicated in the response to stress or in
mood disorder. The profile of 5-HT1A receptor binding in ACC was affected by
early deprivation, notably in the subgenual region, with a decrease in deep
laminae but an increase in superficial laminae. Following early deprivation,
spinophilin mRNA was reduced in subgenual ACC. In the amygdala, no significant
effects of the manipulation were seen, but expression of several transcripts was 
sexually dimorphic. There were correlations between expression of some
transcripts and in-vivo measurements. The results show that early deprivation in 
a non-human primate has a selective long-term effect on expression of genes in
the ACC, particularly the subgenual area. The results differ from those reported 
in the hippocampus of the same animals, indicating the presence of limbic
region-specific long-term molecular responses to early life stress.

DOI: 10.1017/S1461145708009723 
PMCID: PMC2695425
PMID: 19102816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2198. Am J Primatol. 2009 Apr;71(4):324-32. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20656.

Production and perception of sex differences in vocalizations of Wied's
black-tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Smith AS(1), Birnie AK, Lane KR, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska
68182, USA. assmith@mail.unomaha.edu

Males and females from many species produce distinct acoustic variations of
functionally identical call types. Social behavior may be primed by sex-specific 
variation in acoustic features of calls. We present a series of acoustic analyses
and playback experiments as methods for investigating this subject. Acoustic
parameters of phee calls produced by Wied's black-tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix kuhlii) were analyzed for sex differences. Discriminant function
analyses showed that calls contained sufficient acoustic variation to predict the
sex of the caller. Several frequency variables differed significantly between the
sexes. Natural and synthesized calls were presented to male-female pairs. Calls
elicited differential behavioral responses based on the sex of the caller.
Marmosets became significantly more vigilant following the playback of male phee 
calls (both natural and synthetic) than following female phee calls. In a second 
playback experiment, synthesized calls were modified by independently
manipulating three parameters that were known to differ between the sexes (low-, 
peak-, and end-frequency). When end-frequency-modified calls were presented,
responsiveness was differentiable by sex of caller but did not differ from
responses to natural calls. This suggests that marmosets did not use
end-frequency to determine the sex of the caller. Manipulation of peak-and
low-frequency parameters eliminated the discrete behavioral responses to male and
female calls. Together, these parameters may be important features that encode
for the sex-specific signal. Recognition of sex by acoustic cues seems to be a
multivariate process that depends on the congruency of acoustic features.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20656 
PMCID: PMC2981084
PMID: 19090554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

