

2202. Hum Reprod. 2009 Mar;24(3):536-45. doi: 10.1093/humrep/den390. Epub 2008 Dec 4.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model for histone and protamine
expression during human spermatogenesis.

Hecht N(1), Behr R, Hild A, Bergmann M, Weidner W, Steger K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology and Pediatric Urology, Justus Liebig University Giessen,
Giessen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Histone to protamine exchange, in man, is only 80% complete and
spermatozoal histones are highly acetylated suggesting that their associated
genes may be involved in early gene expression in the embryo.
METHODS: Using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry, we analyzed
expression of protamine-1 and protamine-2, and histone H4 specifically acetylated
at lysine 5 (H4K5ac), 8 (H4K8ac), 12 (H4K12ac) and 16 (H4K16ac) in human (n = 22)
and marmoset (n = 6) testes and ejaculates.
RESULTS: Protamine-1 and protamine-2 mRNA was present in round and elongating
spermatids. All antibodies against acetylated histones revealed positive signals 
in these cells. Human spermatogonia showed positive signals for H4K8ac and
H4K16ac, whereas marmoset spermatogonia were positive for H4K8ac and H4K12ac. In 
man, H4K16ac already displayed a positive immunoreaction with pachytene
spermatocytes, starting at stage III of the seminiferous epithelial cycle. All
antibodies showed positive immunostaining in ejaculated spermatozoa of both
species.
CONCLUSIONS: The common marmoset represents a suitable animal model for studies
on nuclear protein expression during human spermatogenesis. The two species
exhibit a similar organization of seminiferous epithelium and an identical
expression pattern of protamine-1 and protamine-2 mRNA in round and elongating
spermatids. The presence of specifically acetylated histones H4 in testicular
spermatids and ejaculated spermatozoa demonstrates an incomplete histone to
protamine exchange in both species. As acetylated histones are known to be
associated with genes involved in gene expression, the common marmoset may, in
future, be used as a model for investigations on early embryo development which, 
in man, are not possible for ethical reasons.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/den390 
PMID: 19056771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2203. J Mol Med (Berl). 2009 Mar;87(3):273-86. doi: 10.1007/s00109-008-0421-4. Epub
2008 Dec 3.

Brain antigens in functionally distinct antigen-presenting cell populations in
cervical lymph nodes in MS and EAE.

van Zwam M(1), Huizinga R, Melief MJ, Wierenga-Wolf AF, van Meurs M, Voerman JS, 
Biber KP, Boddeke HW, HÃ¶pken UE, Meisel C, Meisel A, Bechmann I, Hintzen RQ, 't
Hart BA, Amor S, Laman JD, Boven LA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Drainage of central nervous system (CNS) antigens to the brain-draining cervical 
lymph nodes (CLN) is likely crucial in the initiation and control of autoimmune
responses during multiple sclerosis (MS). We demonstrate neuronal antigens within
CLN of MS patients. In monkeys and mice with experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) and in mouse models with non-inflammatory CNS damage, the
type and extent of CNS damage was associated with the frequencies of CNS antigens
within the cervical lymph nodes. In addition, CNS antigens drained to the
spinal-cord-draining lumbar lymph nodes. In human MS CLN, neuronal antigens were 
present in pro-inflammatory antigen-presenting cells (APC), whereas the majority 
of myelin-containing cells were anti-inflammatory. This may reflect a different
origin of the cells or different drainage mechanisms. Indeed, neuronal
antigen-containing cells in human CLN did not express the lymph node homing
receptor CCR7, whereas myelin antigen-containing cells in situ and in vitro did. 
Nevertheless, CLN from EAE-affected CCR7-deficient mice contained equal amounts
of myelin and neuronal antigens as wild-type mice. We conclude that the type and 
frequencies of CNS antigens within the CLN are determined by the type and extent 
of CNS damage. Furthermore, the presence of myelin and neuronal antigens in
functionally distinct APC populations within MS CLN suggests that differential
immune responses can be evoked.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-008-0421-4 
PMID: 19050840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

