

2203. J Mol Med (Berl). 2009 Mar;87(3):273-86. doi: 10.1007/s00109-008-0421-4. Epub
2008 Dec 3.

Brain antigens in functionally distinct antigen-presenting cell populations in
cervical lymph nodes in MS and EAE.

van Zwam M(1), Huizinga R, Melief MJ, Wierenga-Wolf AF, van Meurs M, Voerman JS, 
Biber KP, Boddeke HW, HÃ¶pken UE, Meisel C, Meisel A, Bechmann I, Hintzen RQ, 't
Hart BA, Amor S, Laman JD, Boven LA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Drainage of central nervous system (CNS) antigens to the brain-draining cervical 
lymph nodes (CLN) is likely crucial in the initiation and control of autoimmune
responses during multiple sclerosis (MS). We demonstrate neuronal antigens within
CLN of MS patients. In monkeys and mice with experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) and in mouse models with non-inflammatory CNS damage, the
type and extent of CNS damage was associated with the frequencies of CNS antigens
within the cervical lymph nodes. In addition, CNS antigens drained to the
spinal-cord-draining lumbar lymph nodes. In human MS CLN, neuronal antigens were 
present in pro-inflammatory antigen-presenting cells (APC), whereas the majority 
of myelin-containing cells were anti-inflammatory. This may reflect a different
origin of the cells or different drainage mechanisms. Indeed, neuronal
antigen-containing cells in human CLN did not express the lymph node homing
receptor CCR7, whereas myelin antigen-containing cells in situ and in vitro did. 
Nevertheless, CLN from EAE-affected CCR7-deficient mice contained equal amounts
of myelin and neuronal antigens as wild-type mice. We conclude that the type and 
frequencies of CNS antigens within the CLN are determined by the type and extent 
of CNS damage. Furthermore, the presence of myelin and neuronal antigens in
functionally distinct APC populations within MS CLN suggests that differential
immune responses can be evoked.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-008-0421-4 
PMID: 19050840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2204. Behav Neurosci. 2008 Dec;122(6):1343-51. doi: 10.1037/a0013279.

Correlations between hand preference and cortical thickness in the secondary
somatosensory (SII) cortex of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Gorrie CA(1), Waite PM, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neural Injury Research Unit, School of Medical Sciences, University of New
South Wales, Sydney, NSW, USA. c.gorrie@unsw.edu.au

Erratum in
    Behav Neurosci. 2009 Apr;123(2):468-iii.

Cortical asymmetries are well established in humans for language and motor
regions and correlate with handedness. Here the authors investigate structural
differences in the hemispheres of left- and right-handed common marmosets using
surface photography and histology. The hand preferences of 11 marmosets were
assessed over their adult life span using a simple reaching task. A significant
correlation was found between the length of the right lateral sulcus/brain weight
and the % right-hand preference (r = .86, p = .001). Cortical thickness on the
superior bank of the right lateral sulcus posteriorly was also positively
correlated with % right-hand preference (r = .69, p = .025). Comparison of this
site with previously published functional maps of the marmoset cortex show this
area corresponds to SII, a region involved in tactile processing and
somatosensory discriminations. It is suggested that the correlation between SII
thickness and right-hand preference would be consistent with the fact that
right-handed marmosets are more proactive than left-handers in exploring novel
objects by touch. Enlargement of a cortical area involved tactile discriminations
could be a precursor to the evolution of right-handedness as a population bias.

DOI: 10.1037/a0013279 
PMID: 19045953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

