

2208. Radiology. 2008 Dec;249(3):855-64. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2493072141.

Diffusion-tensor neuronal fiber tractography and manganese-enhanced MR imaging of
primate visual pathway in the common marmoset: preliminary results.

Yamada M(1), Momoshima S, Masutani Y, Fujiyoshi K, Abe O, Nakamura M, Aoki S,
Tamaoki N, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Collaborating Institute for
Graduate School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan. kiyusamaya@mac.com

Comment in
    Radiology. 2008 Dec;249(3):725-7.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether diffusion-tensor tractography (DTT) of neuronal
fibers is useful for delineating the configuration of the neuronal fiber
trajectories in the primate visual pathway, including the well-developed optic
chiasm, in comparison with tract tracing at manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance
(MR) imaging.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The handling methods used for all the animals in this
study were approved by the institutional committee for animal experiments.
Diffusion-tensor MR imaging was performed in four healthy common marmosets, and
in two of these animals, manganese-enhanced MR imaging tract tracing was
performed by using a 7.0-T MR imaging unit. The visual pathways were
quantitatively investigated in terms of the manganese distribution observed on
the manganese-enhanced MR images. The images obtained with DTT and
manganese-enhanced MR imaging tract tracing were qualitatively compared, and the 
features of the visual pathway were verified through fusion of the reconstructed 
images obtained by using these two modalities.
RESULTS: DTT provided information regarding the neuroanatomic features of the
marmoset visual pathway and revealed the bilateral branching patterns of the
typical primate retinogeniculate pathways, although several incorrectly tracked
fibers were noted. The distribution of manganese on the manganese-enhanced MR
images revealed bilateral innervation of the retinal projections and depicted the
layered internal structure of the lateral geniculate nuclei bilaterally,
depending on the ocularity of each layer. These morphologic findings were
consistent with those of previous histopathologic studies.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this preliminary study raise the possibility that DTT
is useful for visualizing the neuronal fiber trajectories in primate visual
pathways.
SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIAL:
http://radiology.rsnajnls.org/cgi/content/full/249/3/855/DC1.

RSNA, 2008

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2493072141 
PMID: 19011185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2209. Radiology. 2008 Dec;249(3):725-7. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2493081531.

Does diffusion-tensor MR imaging provide accurate tracing of specific white
matter tracts that correspond to actual anatomic and functional units in the
central nervous system?

Kim S(1), Melhem ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Division of Neuroradiology, Hospital of the
University of Pennsylvania, Dulles 2 Building, 3400 Market St Philadelphia, PA
19104, USA.

Comment on
    Radiology. 2008 Dec;249(3):855-64.

By using healthy common marmoset monkeys, Yamada et al traced the
retinogeniculate pathways with ultra high-spatial-resolution manganese-enhanced
magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and diffusion-tensor imaging at 7 T. Both methods
were compared with morphologic findings described in published histopathologic
studies. Both methods provided identical tracing of the optic nerve, optic
chiasm, and optic tracts to the level of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN),
faithfully reproducing the crossing of the nasal portion of the optic nerve at
the level of the chiasm into the contralateral optic tract. This study strongly
suggests that diffusion-tensor imaging, a noninvasive method that can be used in 
human research and clinical practice, has the potential to provide accurate
tracing of specific white matter tracts that correspond to actual anatomic and
functional units in the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2493081531 
PMID: 19011176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

