

2209. Radiology. 2008 Dec;249(3):725-7. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2493081531.

Does diffusion-tensor MR imaging provide accurate tracing of specific white
matter tracts that correspond to actual anatomic and functional units in the
central nervous system?

Kim S(1), Melhem ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Division of Neuroradiology, Hospital of the
University of Pennsylvania, Dulles 2 Building, 3400 Market St Philadelphia, PA
19104, USA.

Comment on
    Radiology. 2008 Dec;249(3):855-64.

By using healthy common marmoset monkeys, Yamada et al traced the
retinogeniculate pathways with ultra high-spatial-resolution manganese-enhanced
magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and diffusion-tensor imaging at 7 T. Both methods
were compared with morphologic findings described in published histopathologic
studies. Both methods provided identical tracing of the optic nerve, optic
chiasm, and optic tracts to the level of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN),
faithfully reproducing the crossing of the nasal portion of the optic nerve at
the level of the chiasm into the contralateral optic tract. This study strongly
suggests that diffusion-tensor imaging, a noninvasive method that can be used in 
human research and clinical practice, has the potential to provide accurate
tracing of specific white matter tracts that correspond to actual anatomic and
functional units in the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2493081531 
PMID: 19011176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2210. Stress. 2009 May;12(3):215-24. doi: 10.1080/10253890802305075.

Prenatal dexamethasone exposure in the common marmoset monkey enhances gene
expression of antioxidant enzymes in the aorta of adult offspring.

Atanasova S(1), Wieland E, Schlumbohm C, Korecka M, Shaw L, von Ahsen N, Fuchs E,
Oellerich M, Armstrong V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Georg-August University, Goettingen,
Germany.

Human epidemiological studies have indicated that low birth weight associated
with an adverse intrauterine environment is related to a greater incidence of
cardiovascular disorders in later life. In the foetus, endogenous glucocorticoids
generally increase if there is intrauterine nutrient deficiency. The consequent
glucocorticoid hyperexposure has been hypothesised to cause in utero programming 
of atherogenic genes. We investigated the effect of oral treatment with the
synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone during early or late pregnancy in marmoset
monkeys on oxidative and antioxidant status in the offspring. Urinary
concentrations of F(2)-isoprostanes were quantified as markers for in vivo
oxidative stress. Expression of the mRNAs for the antioxidant enzymes cytosolic
glutathione peroxidase (GPx-1), phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase
(GPx-4), cytosolic Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1), mitochondrial Mn-superoxide
dismutase (SOD2), glutathione reductase (GSR), modifier subunit of
glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCLM) and catalase were determined in the aorta. Three
groups of pregnant marmosets (10 animals per group) were treated orally for one
week with vehicle, or with dexamethasone (5 mg/kg daily) during two gestation
windows: early dexamethasone group, pregnancy day 42-48, and late dexamethasone
group, pregnancy day 90-96. In one male sibling of each litter (10 males per
group), aortas were taken at 2 years of age. In the late dexamethasone group a
higher aortic mRNA expression for GPx-1 (p < 0.023), MnSOD (p < 0.016), GCLM (p <
0.019) and GSR (p < 0.014) in comparison to the controls was observed. Aortic
expression in the early dexamethasone group was statistically significantly
higher only for GSR mRNA (p < 0.038). No significant changes in urinary
F(2)-isoprostane concentrations between controls, early and late dexamethasone
groups at 2 years of age were observed. Hence, prenatal exposure to dexamethasone
in the third trimester leads to increased mRNA expression of several aortic
antioxidant enzymes in the offspring. This expression pattern was not temporally 
related to oxidative stress, and it may reflect in utero re-programming of aortic
antioxidant gene expression during prenatal glucocorticoid exposure.

DOI: 10.1080/10253890802305075 
PMID: 19005875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

