

221. J Neurosci. 2021 Jan 13;41(2):284-297. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1112-20.2020. Epub 
2020 Nov 18.

Task Engagement Improves Neural Discriminability in the Auditory Midbrain of the 
Marmoset Monkey.

Shaheen LA(1), Slee SJ(2), David SV(3).

Author information: 
(1)Oregon Hearing Research Center, Oregon Health and Science University,
Portland, Oregon 97239-3098 shaheenl@ohsu.edu.
(2)Micro Systems Engineering Inc, Lake Oswego, Oregon 97035.
(3)Oregon Hearing Research Center, Oregon Health and Science University,
Portland, Oregon 97239-3098.

While task-dependent changes have been demonstrated in auditory cortex for a
number of behavioral paradigms and mammalian species, less is known about how
behavioral state can influence neural coding in the midbrain areas that provide
auditory information to cortex. We measured single-unit activity in the inferior 
colliculus (IC) of common marmosets of both sexes while they performed a
tone-in-noise detection task and during passive presentation of identical task
stimuli. In contrast to our previous study in the ferret IC, task engagement had 
little effect on sound-evoked activity in central (lemniscal) IC of the marmoset.
However, activity was significantly modulated in noncentral fields, where
responses were selectively enhanced for the target tone relative to the
distractor noise. This led to an increase in neural discriminability between
target and distractors. The results confirm that task engagement can modulate
sound coding in the auditory midbrain, and support a hypothesis that subcortical 
pathways can mediate highly trained auditory behaviors.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT
While the cerebral cortex is widely viewed as playing an essential role in the
learning and performance of complex auditory behaviors, relatively little
attention has been paid to the role of brainstem and midbrain areas that process 
sound information before it reaches cortex. This study demonstrates that the
auditory midbrain is also modulated during behavior. These modulations amplify
task-relevant sensory information, a process that is traditionally attributed to 
cortex.

Copyright Â© 2021 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1112-20.2020 
PMCID: PMC7810661
PMID: 33208469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Vet Pathol. 2021 Jan;58(1):147-160. doi: 10.1177/0300985820971752. Epub 2020 Nov 
19.

Urogenital Lesions in Nonhuman Primates at 2 National Primate Research Centers.

Kirejczyk S(1), Pinelli C(1)(2), Gonzalez O(3), Kumar S(3), Dick E Jr(3), Gumber 
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1371Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)*Current address: Department of Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 1161 21st Ave South MCN AA-6206, Nashville,
TN 37232, USA.
(3)7075Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Given their genetic and anatomic similarities to humans, nonhuman primates (NHPs)
may serve as animal models for urogenital diseases of humans. The purpose of this
study was to examine the frequency of spontaneous urogenital lesions occurring
over a 30-year period at the Yerkes and Southwest National Primate Research
Centers and to compare and contrast lesions occurring in Old World versus New
World primates. Lesions occurring in the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), baboon
(Papio spp.), rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), cynomolgus macaque (Macaca
fascicularis), pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemestrina), sooty mangabey (Cercocebus
atys), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), cotton-top tamarin (Sanguinus
oedipus), and squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) are discussed. The most common
lesions of the kidney were medullary amyloidosis, renal cysts, renal tubular
degeneration, glomerulonephritis or glomerulopathy, nephritis, nephrocalcinosis, 
pyelonephritis, and hydronephrosis. Specific causes of renal tubular disease
included pigmentary nephrosis and tubular lipidosis. Renal tumors, including
renal adenoma and carcinoma, lymphoma, and nephroblastoma, were infrequent
diagnoses in all species. Endometriosis was the most frequently diagnosed lesion 
of the female genital tract. Of the animals examined in this study, it was most
frequent in Old World primates. Leiomyoma was the most common uterine tumor.
Granulosa cell tumor was the most frequently observed neoplasm of the ovaries,
followed by teratoma. Of animals included in the study, most ovarian tumors
occurred in baboons. Neoplasms of the male reproductive tract included
interstitial cell tumor, seminoma, penile squamous cell carcinoma, penile
papilloma, and histiocytoma. In New World monkeys, renal lesions were reported
more frequently than genital lesions.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985820971752 
PMCID: PMC7903448
PMID: 33208023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

