

2210. Stress. 2009 May;12(3):215-24. doi: 10.1080/10253890802305075.

Prenatal dexamethasone exposure in the common marmoset monkey enhances gene
expression of antioxidant enzymes in the aorta of adult offspring.

Atanasova S(1), Wieland E, Schlumbohm C, Korecka M, Shaw L, von Ahsen N, Fuchs E,
Oellerich M, Armstrong V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Georg-August University, Goettingen,
Germany.

Human epidemiological studies have indicated that low birth weight associated
with an adverse intrauterine environment is related to a greater incidence of
cardiovascular disorders in later life. In the foetus, endogenous glucocorticoids
generally increase if there is intrauterine nutrient deficiency. The consequent
glucocorticoid hyperexposure has been hypothesised to cause in utero programming 
of atherogenic genes. We investigated the effect of oral treatment with the
synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone during early or late pregnancy in marmoset
monkeys on oxidative and antioxidant status in the offspring. Urinary
concentrations of F(2)-isoprostanes were quantified as markers for in vivo
oxidative stress. Expression of the mRNAs for the antioxidant enzymes cytosolic
glutathione peroxidase (GPx-1), phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase
(GPx-4), cytosolic Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1), mitochondrial Mn-superoxide
dismutase (SOD2), glutathione reductase (GSR), modifier subunit of
glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCLM) and catalase were determined in the aorta. Three
groups of pregnant marmosets (10 animals per group) were treated orally for one
week with vehicle, or with dexamethasone (5 mg/kg daily) during two gestation
windows: early dexamethasone group, pregnancy day 42-48, and late dexamethasone
group, pregnancy day 90-96. In one male sibling of each litter (10 males per
group), aortas were taken at 2 years of age. In the late dexamethasone group a
higher aortic mRNA expression for GPx-1 (p < 0.023), MnSOD (p < 0.016), GCLM (p <
0.019) and GSR (p < 0.014) in comparison to the controls was observed. Aortic
expression in the early dexamethasone group was statistically significantly
higher only for GSR mRNA (p < 0.038). No significant changes in urinary
F(2)-isoprostane concentrations between controls, early and late dexamethasone
groups at 2 years of age were observed. Hence, prenatal exposure to dexamethasone
in the third trimester leads to increased mRNA expression of several aortic
antioxidant enzymes in the offspring. This expression pattern was not temporally 
related to oxidative stress, and it may reflect in utero re-programming of aortic
antioxidant gene expression during prenatal glucocorticoid exposure.

DOI: 10.1080/10253890802305075 
PMID: 19005875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2211. J Comp Neurol. 2009 Jan 10;512(2):218-31. doi: 10.1002/cne.21893.

Expression of synaptic and phototransduction markers during photoreceptor
development in the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Hendrickson A(1), Troilo D, Djajadi H, Possin D, Springer A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Marmoset photoreceptor development was studied to determine the expression
sequence for synaptic, opsin, and phototransduction proteins. All markers appear 
first in cones within the incipient foveal center or in rods at the foveal edge. 
Recoverin appears in cones across 70% of the retina at fetal day (Fd) 88,
indicating that it is expressed shortly after photoreceptors are generated.
Synaptic markers synaptophysin, SV2, glutamate vesicular transporter 1, and CTBP2
label foveal cones at Fd 88 and cones at the retinal edge around birth. Cones and
rods have distinctly different patterns of synaptic protein and opsin expression.
Synaptic markers are expressed first in cones, with a considerable delay before
they appear in rods at the same eccentricity. Cones express synaptic markers 2-3 
weeks before they express opsin, but rods express opsin 2-4 weeks before rod
synaptic marker labeling is detected. Medium/long-wavelength-selective (M&L)
opsin appears in foveal cones and rod opsin in rods around the fovea at Fd 100.
Very few cones expressing short-wavelength-selective (S) opsin are found in the
Fd 105 fovea. Across peripheral retina, opsin appears first in rods, followed
about 1 week later by M&L cone opsin. S cone opsin appears last, and all opsins
reach the retinal edge by 1 week after birth. Cone transducin and rod arrestin
are expressed concurrently with opsin, but cone arrestin appears slightly later. 
Marmoset photoreceptor development differs from that in Macaca and humans. It
starts relatively late, at 56% gestation, compared with Macaca at 32% gestation. 
The marmoset opsin expression sequence is also different from that of either
Macaca or human.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21893 
PMCID: PMC3089894
PMID: 19003975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

