

2213. Restor Neurol Neurosci. 2008;26(4-5):249-66.

Axonal regeneration in the organotypically cultured monkey retina: biological
aspects, dependence on substrates and age-related proteomic profiling.

Rose K(1), Schröer U, Volk GF, Schlatt S, König S, Feigenspan A, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital Münster,
Münster, Germany.

Injury to the mature primate and subprimate optic nerve results in irreversible
impairment and loss of vision, because the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) fail to 
regenerate their cut axons within the optic nerve interior. This study was
performed to examine whether aging monkey RGCs retain the ability to regenerate
their axons in organ culture and whether axonal regeneration is associated with
specific proteomic profile. Retinal stripes obtained from marmoset eyes (C.
jacchus) were cultured between the day of birth and adult stages on different
substrates like laminin-1, laminin-2, collagen, matrigel and poly-D-lysine. No
neurotrophic factors were added to the medium. Axonal growth was monitored with
microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Onset and rate of growth was examined with
time-lapse videography. Vigorous regeneration of axons occurred from identifiable
morphological types of RGCs throughout all stages of life, although the numbers
of axons decreased with age. Axonal growth occurred virtually only on laminin-1. 
Growth correlated with re-expression of the laminin-1 receptor alpha6-integrin
and sustained staining for GAP-43 as shown by immunohistochemistry and
immunoblotting. At proteomic level, there is a maturation-dependent change in the
protein immunostaining within the retina. When retinal slices of the same age
were compared, regeneration-specific protein staining included calmodulin, fatty 
acid binding protein, alpha-crystallin, IFN-gamma, cyclin-dependent kinase
inhibitor (p21), beta-hemoglobin, 60s-ribosomal protein, GAP-DH and
ADP-ribosylation factor (ARF). To our knowledge these data are the first from
subhuman animals to suggest that axonal regeneration of injured RGCs is
correlated to expression of identifiable proteins within the retina.


PMID: 18997304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2214. Immunol Lett. 2008 Dec 22;121(2):116-22. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2008.09.007. Epub
2008 Oct 31.

Novel monoclonal antibodies recognizing different subsets of lymphocytes from the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Ito R(1), Maekawa S, Kawai K, Suemizu H, Suzuki S, Ishii H, Tanioka Y, Satake M, 
Yagita H, Habu S, Ito M.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 1430 Nogawa, Miyamae, Kawasaki
216-0001, Japan.

Callithrix jacchus, the common marmoset, is a small new world primate that is
considered effective as an experimental animal model for various human diseases. 
In this study, we generated monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against common marmoset 
lymphocytes for immunological studies on the common marmoset. We established five
hybridoma clones, 6C9, 10D7, 6F10, 7A4 and 5A1, producing anti-marmoset mAbs
against cell surface antigens on marmoset T and/or B lymphocytes. We confirmed
that 6C9 and 10D7 antibodies recognized CD45 antigen, and 6F10 antibody
recognized CD8 antigen by flow cytometry using marmoset cDNA transfectants. We
also tested them for application of immunoprecipitation, Western blot analysis
and immunohistochemistry. We found that immunohistochemistry using marmoset
spleen sections could be applied with all established mAbs but
immunoprecipitation and the Western blot analysis could be applied with 6F10 and 
10D7 antibodies but not with the other three mAbs. These results show that these 
monoclonal antibodies are useful for advancing immunological research on the
common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2008.09.007 
PMID: 18977390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

