

2214. Immunol Lett. 2008 Dec 22;121(2):116-22. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2008.09.007. Epub
2008 Oct 31.

Novel monoclonal antibodies recognizing different subsets of lymphocytes from the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Ito R(1), Maekawa S, Kawai K, Suemizu H, Suzuki S, Ishii H, Tanioka Y, Satake M, 
Yagita H, Habu S, Ito M.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 1430 Nogawa, Miyamae, Kawasaki
216-0001, Japan.

Callithrix jacchus, the common marmoset, is a small new world primate that is
considered effective as an experimental animal model for various human diseases. 
In this study, we generated monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against common marmoset 
lymphocytes for immunological studies on the common marmoset. We established five
hybridoma clones, 6C9, 10D7, 6F10, 7A4 and 5A1, producing anti-marmoset mAbs
against cell surface antigens on marmoset T and/or B lymphocytes. We confirmed
that 6C9 and 10D7 antibodies recognized CD45 antigen, and 6F10 antibody
recognized CD8 antigen by flow cytometry using marmoset cDNA transfectants. We
also tested them for application of immunoprecipitation, Western blot analysis
and immunohistochemistry. We found that immunohistochemistry using marmoset
spleen sections could be applied with all established mAbs but
immunoprecipitation and the Western blot analysis could be applied with 6F10 and 
10D7 antibodies but not with the other three mAbs. These results show that these 
monoclonal antibodies are useful for advancing immunological research on the
common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2008.09.007 
PMID: 18977390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2215. J Physiol. 2008 Dec 15;586(24):5947-67. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2008.161893. Epub
2008 Oct 27.

Transmission of blue (S) cone signals through the primate lateral geniculate
nucleus.

Tailby C(1), Szmajda BA, Buz√°s P, Lee BB, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Corner of Keppel and Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

This study concerns the transmission of short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cone
signals through the primate dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. The principal cell
classes, magnocellular (MC) and parvocellular (PC), are traditionally segregated 
into on- and off-subtypes on the basis of the sign of their response to luminance
variation. Cells dominated by input from S-cones ('blue-on and blue-off') are
less frequently encountered and their properties are less well understood. Here
we characterize the spatial and chromatic properties of a large sample of blue-on
and blue-off neurons and contrast them with those of PC and MC neurons. The
results confirm that blue-on and blue-off cells have larger receptive fields than
PC and MC neurons at equivalent eccentricities. Relative to blue-on cells,
blue-off cells are less sensitive to S-cone contrast, have larger receptive
fields, and show more low-pass spatial frequency tuning. Thus, blue-on and
blue-off neurons lack the functional symmetry characteristic of on- and
off-subtypes in the MC and PC pathways. The majority of MC and PC cells received 
no detectible input from S-cones. Where present, input from S-cones tended to
provide weak inhibition to PC cells. All cell types showed evidence of a
suppressive extra-classical receptive field driven largely or exclusively by
ML-cones. These data indicate that S-cone signals are isolated to supply the
classical receptive field mechanisms of blue-on and blue-off cells in the LGN,
and that the low spatial precision of S-cone vision has origins in both classical
and extraclassical receptive field properties of subcortical pathways.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2008.161893 
PMCID: PMC2655435
PMID: 18955378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

