

2215. J Physiol. 2008 Dec 15;586(24):5947-67. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2008.161893. Epub
2008 Oct 27.

Transmission of blue (S) cone signals through the primate lateral geniculate
nucleus.

Tailby C(1), Szmajda BA, BuzÃ¡s P, Lee BB, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Corner of Keppel and Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

This study concerns the transmission of short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cone
signals through the primate dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. The principal cell
classes, magnocellular (MC) and parvocellular (PC), are traditionally segregated 
into on- and off-subtypes on the basis of the sign of their response to luminance
variation. Cells dominated by input from S-cones ('blue-on and blue-off') are
less frequently encountered and their properties are less well understood. Here
we characterize the spatial and chromatic properties of a large sample of blue-on
and blue-off neurons and contrast them with those of PC and MC neurons. The
results confirm that blue-on and blue-off cells have larger receptive fields than
PC and MC neurons at equivalent eccentricities. Relative to blue-on cells,
blue-off cells are less sensitive to S-cone contrast, have larger receptive
fields, and show more low-pass spatial frequency tuning. Thus, blue-on and
blue-off neurons lack the functional symmetry characteristic of on- and
off-subtypes in the MC and PC pathways. The majority of MC and PC cells received 
no detectible input from S-cones. Where present, input from S-cones tended to
provide weak inhibition to PC cells. All cell types showed evidence of a
suppressive extra-classical receptive field driven largely or exclusively by
ML-cones. These data indicate that S-cone signals are isolated to supply the
classical receptive field mechanisms of blue-on and blue-off cells in the LGN,
and that the low spatial precision of S-cone vision has origins in both classical
and extraclassical receptive field properties of subcortical pathways.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2008.161893 
PMCID: PMC2655435
PMID: 18955378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2216. Swiss Med Wkly. 2008 Nov 29;138(47-48):692-707. doi: /aop/smw-aop12283.

Autoantibodies in inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous
system.

Lalive PH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Division of Neurology, Geneva University
Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland. patrice.lalive@hcuge.ch

The determination of disease-specific autoantibodies (Abs) is a challenge in any 
autoimmune disease. The significance of Abs detected in inflammatory
demyelinating diseases (IDD) of the central nervous system (CNS), such as
multiple sclerosis (MS), is still unclear. Histopathological reports have
demonstrated that a humoral (Abs)-mediated pattern of demyelination is detected
in >50% of MS patients and is consistently associated with active demyelination. 
The observation that these patients specifically respond to plasmapheresis
reinforces the hypothesis of a specific humoral MS subtype. One of the most
intensively studied antigen targets in MS is a glycoprotein of the myelin sheath 
called the Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein (MOG). Recent advances have shown 
that epitope specificity of MOG is crucial in terms of specificity of the Ab
response. Several other auto-Abs, including anti-myelin, oligodendrocyte and
neuronal Abs have been studied in MS. These auto-Abs may have pathogenic or
protective properties, but could also have no functional role. Recently, the
demonstration of a highly specific auto-Ab in an IDD of the CNS called
neuromyelitis optica (NMO), directed against the aquaporin-4 (AQP-4) located at
the blood brain barrier (BBB), has allowed a refinement of the diagnostic
criteria of NMO and classification of this disease as an autoimmune
channelopathy. These recent advances have reinforced the interest in tracking the
role of the humoral response in the different IDD of the CNS.

DOI: /aop/smw-aop12283 
PMID: 18951202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

