

2218. Proc Biol Sci. 2009 Feb 7;276(1656):389-99. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2008.1374.

Reproductive skew in female common marmosets: what can proximate mechanisms tell 
us about ultimate causes?

Saltzman W(1), Digby LJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Common marmosets are cooperatively breeding monkeys that exhibit high
reproductive skew: most subordinate females fail to reproduce, while others
attempt to breed but produce very few surviving infants. An extensive dataset on 
the mechanisms limiting reproduction in laboratory-housed and free living
subordinate females provides unique insights into the causes of reproductive
skew. Non-breeding adult females undergo suppression of ovulation and inhibition 
of sexual behaviour; however, they receive little or no aggression or mating
interference by dominants and do not exhibit behavioural or physiological signs
of stress. Breeding subordinate females receive comparable amounts of aggression 
to non-breeding females but are able to conceive, gestate and lactate normally.
In groups containing two breeding females,however, both dominant and subordinate 
breeders kill one another's infants. These findings suggest that preconception
reproductive suppression is not imposed on subordinate females by dominants, at a
proximate level, but is instead self-imposed by most subordinates, consistent
with restraint models of reproductive skew. In contrast to restraint models,
however, this self-suppression probably evolved not in response to the threat of 
eviction by dominant females but in response to the threat of infanticide.
Thus,reproductive skew in this species appears to be generated predominantly by
subordinate self-restraint, in a proximate sense, but ultimately by dominant
control over subordinates' reproductive attempts.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2008.1374 
PMCID: PMC2592602
PMID: 18945663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2219. J Immunol. 2008 Nov 1;181(9):6158-69.

Cross-linking of B7-H1 on EBV-transformed B cells induces apoptosis through
reactive oxygen species production, JNK signaling activation, and fasL
expression.

Kim YS(1), Park GB, Lee HK, Song H, Choi IH, Lee WJ, Hur DY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Research Center for Tumor Immunology, Inje
University College of Medicine, Busan, Republic of Korea.

B7-H1 is a newly identified member of the B7 family with important regulatory
functions in cell-mediated immune responses, and it is expressed in human immune 
cells and several tumors. We first observed that expression of surface B7-H1 on B
cells was increased during the immortalization process by EBV, which is strongly 
related to both inflammation and tumorigenesis. Cross-linking of B7-H1 on
EBV-transformed B cells using anti-B7-H1 Ab (clone 130002) induced reactive
oxygen species (ROS) generation, mitochondrial disruption, release of apoptotic
proteins from mitochondria, and subsequent apoptosis. Inhibition of caspases and 
ROS generation recovered B7-H1-mediated apoptosis and proteolytic activities of
caspase-8, -9, and -3. We observed that B7-H1 stimulation induced both
transcription and translation of fasL. ZB4, an antagonistic anti-fas Ab, and
NOK-1, an antagonistic anti-fasL Ab, effectively blocked apoptosis without
exerting any influence on ROS generation. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) completely
blocked the induction of fasL mRNA and protein. We found that B7-H1 stimulation
activated the phosphorylation of JNK and c-jun and down-regulated ERK1/2 and
p-Akt. NAC blocked the activation of JNK and down-regulation of ERK, but both
z-VAD-fmk (N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone) and ZB4 did not
inhibit JNK activation of B7-H1 stimulation. SP600125 blocked fasL induction and 
apoptosis but did not affect ROS generation after B7-H1 stimulation. Taken
together, we concluded that B7-H1-mediated apoptosis on EBV-transformed B cells
may be involved in the induction of fasL, which is evoked by ROS generation and
JNK activation after cross-linking of B7-H1. These results provide a new concept 
for understanding reverse signaling through B7-H1 and another mechanism of tumor 
immunotherapy using anti-B7-H1.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.181.9.6158 
PMID: 18941206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

