

2219. J Immunol. 2008 Nov 1;181(9):6158-69.

Cross-linking of B7-H1 on EBV-transformed B cells induces apoptosis through
reactive oxygen species production, JNK signaling activation, and fasL
expression.

Kim YS(1), Park GB, Lee HK, Song H, Choi IH, Lee WJ, Hur DY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Research Center for Tumor Immunology, Inje
University College of Medicine, Busan, Republic of Korea.

B7-H1 is a newly identified member of the B7 family with important regulatory
functions in cell-mediated immune responses, and it is expressed in human immune 
cells and several tumors. We first observed that expression of surface B7-H1 on B
cells was increased during the immortalization process by EBV, which is strongly 
related to both inflammation and tumorigenesis. Cross-linking of B7-H1 on
EBV-transformed B cells using anti-B7-H1 Ab (clone 130002) induced reactive
oxygen species (ROS) generation, mitochondrial disruption, release of apoptotic
proteins from mitochondria, and subsequent apoptosis. Inhibition of caspases and 
ROS generation recovered B7-H1-mediated apoptosis and proteolytic activities of
caspase-8, -9, and -3. We observed that B7-H1 stimulation induced both
transcription and translation of fasL. ZB4, an antagonistic anti-fas Ab, and
NOK-1, an antagonistic anti-fasL Ab, effectively blocked apoptosis without
exerting any influence on ROS generation. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) completely
blocked the induction of fasL mRNA and protein. We found that B7-H1 stimulation
activated the phosphorylation of JNK and c-jun and down-regulated ERK1/2 and
p-Akt. NAC blocked the activation of JNK and down-regulation of ERK, but both
z-VAD-fmk (N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone) and ZB4 did not
inhibit JNK activation of B7-H1 stimulation. SP600125 blocked fasL induction and 
apoptosis but did not affect ROS generation after B7-H1 stimulation. Taken
together, we concluded that B7-H1-mediated apoptosis on EBV-transformed B cells
may be involved in the induction of fasL, which is evoked by ROS generation and
JNK activation after cross-linking of B7-H1. These results provide a new concept 
for understanding reverse signaling through B7-H1 and another mechanism of tumor 
immunotherapy using anti-B7-H1.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.181.9.6158 
PMID: 18941206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2220. Neuroscience. 2008 Dec 2;157(3):637-43. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2008.09.021. 
Epub 2008 Sep 18.

Segregated hemispheric pathways through the optic chiasm distinguish primates
from rodents.

Jeffery G(1), Levitt JB, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, Bath Street, London
EC1V 9EL, UK. g.jeffery@ucl.ac.uk

At the optic chiasm retinal fibers either cross the midline, or remain uncrossed.
Here we trace hemispheric pathways through the marmoset chiasm and show that
fibers from the lateral optic nerve pass directly toward the ipsilateral optic
tract without any significant change in fiber order and without approaching the
midline, while those from medial regions of the nerve decussate directly.
Anterograde labeling from one eye shows that the two hemispheric pathways remain 
segregated through the proximal nerve and chiasm with the uncrossed confined
laterally. Retrograde labeling from the optic tract confirms this. This clearly
demonstrates that hemispheric pathways are segregated through the primate chiasm.
Previous chiasmatic studies have been undertaken mainly on rodents and ferrets.
In these species there is a major change in fiber order pre-chiasmatically, where
crossed and uncrossed fibers mix, reflecting their embryological history when all
fibers approach the midline prior to their commitment to innervate either
hemisphere. This pattern was thought to be common to placental mammals. In
marsupials there is no change in fiber order and uncrossed fibers remain confined
laterally through nerve and chiasm, again, reflecting their developmental history
when all uncrossed fibers avoid the midline. Recently it has been shown that this
distinction is not a true dichotomy between placental mammals and marsupials, as 
fiber order in tree shrews and humans mirrors the marsupial pattern.
Architectural differences in the mature chiasm probably reflect different
developmental mechanisms regulating pathway choice. Our results therefore suggest
that both the organization and development of the primate optic chiasm differ
markedly from that revealed in rodents and carnivores.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2008.09.021 
PMCID: PMC2736912
PMID: 18854206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

