

222. Vet Pathol. 2021 Jan;58(1):147-160. doi: 10.1177/0300985820971752. Epub 2020 Nov 
19.

Urogenital Lesions in Nonhuman Primates at 2 National Primate Research Centers.

Kirejczyk S(1), Pinelli C(1)(2), Gonzalez O(3), Kumar S(3), Dick E Jr(3), Gumber 
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1371Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)*Current address: Department of Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 1161 21st Ave South MCN AA-6206, Nashville,
TN 37232, USA.
(3)7075Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Given their genetic and anatomic similarities to humans, nonhuman primates (NHPs)
may serve as animal models for urogenital diseases of humans. The purpose of this
study was to examine the frequency of spontaneous urogenital lesions occurring
over a 30-year period at the Yerkes and Southwest National Primate Research
Centers and to compare and contrast lesions occurring in Old World versus New
World primates. Lesions occurring in the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), baboon
(Papio spp.), rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), cynomolgus macaque (Macaca
fascicularis), pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemestrina), sooty mangabey (Cercocebus
atys), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), cotton-top tamarin (Sanguinus
oedipus), and squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) are discussed. The most common
lesions of the kidney were medullary amyloidosis, renal cysts, renal tubular
degeneration, glomerulonephritis or glomerulopathy, nephritis, nephrocalcinosis, 
pyelonephritis, and hydronephrosis. Specific causes of renal tubular disease
included pigmentary nephrosis and tubular lipidosis. Renal tumors, including
renal adenoma and carcinoma, lymphoma, and nephroblastoma, were infrequent
diagnoses in all species. Endometriosis was the most frequently diagnosed lesion 
of the female genital tract. Of the animals examined in this study, it was most
frequent in Old World primates. Leiomyoma was the most common uterine tumor.
Granulosa cell tumor was the most frequently observed neoplasm of the ovaries,
followed by teratoma. Of animals included in the study, most ovarian tumors
occurred in baboons. Neoplasms of the male reproductive tract included
interstitial cell tumor, seminoma, penile squamous cell carcinoma, penile
papilloma, and histiocytoma. In New World monkeys, renal lesions were reported
more frequently than genital lesions.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985820971752 
PMCID: PMC7903448
PMID: 33208023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. PLoS One. 2020 Nov 18;15(11):e0241487. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0241487.
eCollection 2020.

Tissue expression of antigens of ABH blood groups in species of New World Monkeys
(Aotus infulatus, Callithrix jacchus, Sapajus apella and Saimiri sciureus).

Aguiar DCF(1), Pereira WLA(2), de Matos GCB(3), Marruaz da Silva KS(4), de Loiola
RDSP(5), Corvelo TCO(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomolecular Technology, Institute of Biological Sciences,
Federal -University of Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil.
(2)Pathology Laboratory, Rural Federal University of Amazonia, Belém, Pará,
Brazil.
(3)Institute of Health and Animal Production, Veterinary Medicine Course, Rural
Federal University of Amazonia, Belém, Pará, Brazil.
(4)Institute of Science and Technology in Biomodels, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Rio
de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Epidemiology Division, Pará State Health Secretary, Belém, Pará, Brazil.
(6)Laboratory of Immunogenetics, Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal
University of Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2021 Oct 28;16(10):e0259504.

ABH antigens are histo-antigens, but were first described on the surface of human
erythrocytes. They are found in those cells only in great apes and humans, while 
in more primitive animals they are found in tissues and body fluids. ABH antigens
are mainly distributed in tissues that are in contact with the external
environment and may serve as ligands for pathogens in tissues or block their
connection. Description of the distribution of these molecules in non-human
primate tissues is restricted to a few tissues and species. This paper describes 
the expression of human A, B and H type antigens in different organs from four
species of New World Primates, obtained from the Centro Nacional de Primatas, as 
well as comparing that expression with what has been described for humans. In
this study, although the tissue description of the antigens is similar to the
genetic model for humans, some differences in expression between some organs from
those species and those of humans were found. The differences occurred mainly in 
endodermal organs that have secretory functions and are probably under the
control of the human-type FUT-2 enzyme. In the mesodermal-origin organs there was
a reduction or absence of A and B antigen marking, particularly in the H
precursor substance, indicating that those organs are under the control of the
human-type FUT-1 enzyme. These findings have demonstrated that there is similar
ABH antigen reactivity in tissue distribution between the species, although there
are some species-specific cases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0241487 
PMCID: PMC7673508
PMID: 33206689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

