

2220. Neuroscience. 2008 Dec 2;157(3):637-43. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2008.09.021. 
Epub 2008 Sep 18.

Segregated hemispheric pathways through the optic chiasm distinguish primates
from rodents.

Jeffery G(1), Levitt JB, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, Bath Street, London
EC1V 9EL, UK. g.jeffery@ucl.ac.uk

At the optic chiasm retinal fibers either cross the midline, or remain uncrossed.
Here we trace hemispheric pathways through the marmoset chiasm and show that
fibers from the lateral optic nerve pass directly toward the ipsilateral optic
tract without any significant change in fiber order and without approaching the
midline, while those from medial regions of the nerve decussate directly.
Anterograde labeling from one eye shows that the two hemispheric pathways remain 
segregated through the proximal nerve and chiasm with the uncrossed confined
laterally. Retrograde labeling from the optic tract confirms this. This clearly
demonstrates that hemispheric pathways are segregated through the primate chiasm.
Previous chiasmatic studies have been undertaken mainly on rodents and ferrets.
In these species there is a major change in fiber order pre-chiasmatically, where
crossed and uncrossed fibers mix, reflecting their embryological history when all
fibers approach the midline prior to their commitment to innervate either
hemisphere. This pattern was thought to be common to placental mammals. In
marsupials there is no change in fiber order and uncrossed fibers remain confined
laterally through nerve and chiasm, again, reflecting their developmental history
when all uncrossed fibers avoid the midline. Recently it has been shown that this
distinction is not a true dichotomy between placental mammals and marsupials, as 
fiber order in tree shrews and humans mirrors the marsupial pattern.
Architectural differences in the mature chiasm probably reflect different
developmental mechanisms regulating pathway choice. Our results therefore suggest
that both the organization and development of the primate optic chiasm differ
markedly from that revealed in rodents and carnivores.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2008.09.021 
PMCID: PMC2736912
PMID: 18854206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2221. J Hepatol. 2008 Dec;49(6):908-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2008.07.020. Epub 2008 Sep 
15.

Chimeric GB virus B genomes containing hepatitis C virus p7 are infectious in
vivo.

Griffin S(1), Trowbridge R, Thommes P, Parry N, Rowlands D, Harris M, Bright H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences
and Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology, University of Leeds, Leeds
LS2 9JT, UK. s.d.c.griffin@leeds.ac.uk

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The development of new therapies for hepatitis C virus (HCV)
infection has been hampered by the lack of a small animal model. GB virus B
(GBV-B), which infects new world monkeys, has been proposed as a surrogate system
for HCV replication. Despite their short genetic distance, however, difficulties 
exist when extrapolating results from GBV-B to the HCV system. One way of
addressing this is the creation of chimeric GBV-B containing HCV elements.
METHODS: Construction and analysis of GBV-B chimeras in which the p13 ion channel
was replaced by its HCV counterpart, p7.
RESULTS: Replacing all, or part of, the GBV-B p13 protein with HCV p7 resulted in
viable chimeras which replicated at wild-type levels in marmosets following
intra-hepatic RNA injection. Serum from one animal injected with chimeric RNA was
infectious in three na√Øve recipients, indicating that chimeras formed fully
infectious virions. Amantadine, which blocks the ion channel activity of both HCV
and GBV-B proteins in vitro, also inhibited GBV-B replication in primary
hepatocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: These viruses highlight the potential for chimeric GBV-B in the
development of HCV-specific therapies and will provide a means of developing HCV 
p7 as a therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2008.07.020 
PMCID: PMC3098382
PMID: 18845353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

