

2221. J Hepatol. 2008 Dec;49(6):908-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2008.07.020. Epub 2008 Sep 
15.

Chimeric GB virus B genomes containing hepatitis C virus p7 are infectious in
vivo.

Griffin S(1), Trowbridge R, Thommes P, Parry N, Rowlands D, Harris M, Bright H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences
and Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology, University of Leeds, Leeds
LS2 9JT, UK. s.d.c.griffin@leeds.ac.uk

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The development of new therapies for hepatitis C virus (HCV)
infection has been hampered by the lack of a small animal model. GB virus B
(GBV-B), which infects new world monkeys, has been proposed as a surrogate system
for HCV replication. Despite their short genetic distance, however, difficulties 
exist when extrapolating results from GBV-B to the HCV system. One way of
addressing this is the creation of chimeric GBV-B containing HCV elements.
METHODS: Construction and analysis of GBV-B chimeras in which the p13 ion channel
was replaced by its HCV counterpart, p7.
RESULTS: Replacing all, or part of, the GBV-B p13 protein with HCV p7 resulted in
viable chimeras which replicated at wild-type levels in marmosets following
intra-hepatic RNA injection. Serum from one animal injected with chimeric RNA was
infectious in three na√Øve recipients, indicating that chimeras formed fully
infectious virions. Amantadine, which blocks the ion channel activity of both HCV
and GBV-B proteins in vitro, also inhibited GBV-B replication in primary
hepatocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: These viruses highlight the potential for chimeric GBV-B in the
development of HCV-specific therapies and will provide a means of developing HCV 
p7 as a therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2008.07.020 
PMCID: PMC3098382
PMID: 18845353  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2222. Pharm Res. 2009 Jan;26(1):1-18. doi: 10.1007/s11095-008-9646-8. Epub 2008 Oct 8.

Animal models for target diseases in gene therapy--using DNA and siRNA delivery
strategies.

Blagbrough IS(1), Zara C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of Bath, Bath, BA2 7AY,
UK. prsisb@bath.ac.uk

Nanoparticles, including lipopolyamines leading to lipoplexes, liposomes, and
polyplexes are targeted drug carrier systems in the current search for a
successful delivery system for polynucleic acids. This review is focused on the
impact of gene and siRNA delivery for studies of efficacy, pharmacodynamics, and 
pharmacokinetics within the setting of the wide variety of in vivo animal models 
now used. This critical appraisal of the recent literature sets out the different
models that are currently being investigated to bridge from studies in cell lines
through towards clinical reality. Whilst many scientists will be familiar with
rodent (murine, fecine, cricetine, and musteline) models, few probably think of
fish as a clinically relevant animal model, but zebrafish, madake, and rainbow
trout are all being used. Larger animal models include rabbit, cat, dog, and cow.
Pig is used both for the prevention of foot-and-mouth disease and human diseases,
sheep is a model for corneal transplantation, and the horse naturally develops
arthritis. Non-human primate models (macaque, common marmoset, owl monkey) are
used for preclinical gene vector safety and efficacy trials to bridge the gap
prior to clinical studies. We aim for the safe development of clinically
effective delivery systems for DNA and RNAi technologies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11095-008-9646-8 
PMCID: PMC7088656
PMID: 18841450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

