

2222. Pharm Res. 2009 Jan;26(1):1-18. doi: 10.1007/s11095-008-9646-8. Epub 2008 Oct 8.

Animal models for target diseases in gene therapy--using DNA and siRNA delivery
strategies.

Blagbrough IS(1), Zara C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of Bath, Bath, BA2 7AY,
UK. prsisb@bath.ac.uk

Nanoparticles, including lipopolyamines leading to lipoplexes, liposomes, and
polyplexes are targeted drug carrier systems in the current search for a
successful delivery system for polynucleic acids. This review is focused on the
impact of gene and siRNA delivery for studies of efficacy, pharmacodynamics, and 
pharmacokinetics within the setting of the wide variety of in vivo animal models 
now used. This critical appraisal of the recent literature sets out the different
models that are currently being investigated to bridge from studies in cell lines
through towards clinical reality. Whilst many scientists will be familiar with
rodent (murine, fecine, cricetine, and musteline) models, few probably think of
fish as a clinically relevant animal model, but zebrafish, madake, and rainbow
trout are all being used. Larger animal models include rabbit, cat, dog, and cow.
Pig is used both for the prevention of foot-and-mouth disease and human diseases,
sheep is a model for corneal transplantation, and the horse naturally develops
arthritis. Non-human primate models (macaque, common marmoset, owl monkey) are
used for preclinical gene vector safety and efficacy trials to bridge the gap
prior to clinical studies. We aim for the safe development of clinically
effective delivery systems for DNA and RNAi technologies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11095-008-9646-8 
PMCID: PMC7088656
PMID: 18841450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2223. Primates. 2008 Oct;49(4):283-7. doi: 10.1007/s10329-008-0105-2. Epub 2008 Oct 8.

Histopathology findings in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus Linnaeus, 1758)
with chronic weight loss associated with bile tract obstruction by infestation
with Platynosomum (Loos, 1907).

Sousa MB(1), Le√£o AC, Coutinho JF, de Oliveira Ramos AM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande, Caixa Postal, 
1511, Natal, RN 59078-970, Brazil. mdesousa@cb.ufrn.br

Chronic weight loss in marmosets is often associated with wasting marmoset
syndrome (WMS), an important disease that occurs in callitrichid colonies around 
the world. Even though its etiology is very difficult to determine, particular
variables, such as weight loss, diarrhea and alopecia, associated or not with
infestation in the pancreatic ducts with Trichospirura leptossoma (Nematoda:
Thelazioidea), seem to be linked with the syndrome. This study investigated the
histopathology of the lungs, duodenum, liver, gallbladder, extrahepatic bile
ducts and pancreatic ducts of six common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) suffering
from severe non-diarrheic weight loss. Three individuals died naturally and the
other three were euthanized. Microscopic findings showed the presence of adult
flukes (Platynosomum) in the liver. These flukes, which provoke common infection 
in cats, were also observed inside the gallbladder as well as in the intra and
extrahepatic bile ducts in common marmosets. Portal fibrosis was observed in two 
animals, which developed chronic fibrosing hepatopathy (biliary pattern, grade
3). The disease progresses without diarrhea and without pancreatic lesions or
infestation. With the progression, the animals presented with ascending
cholangitis, cholestasis and portal fibrosis, sometimes culminating in secondary 
biliary cirrhosis. Therefore, this infirmity, associated with chronic weight loss
in common marmosets, could be another etiological factor linked with WMS.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-008-0105-2 
PMID: 18841441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

