

2229. Biol Lett. 2008 Dec 23;4(6):603-5. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2008.0358.

Exposure to infant scent lowers serum testosterone in father common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Prudom SL(1), Broz CA, Schultz-Darken N, Ferris CT, Snowdon C, Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI 53715, USA.

Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) males are bi-parental non-human primates
that show extensive paternal behaviour. Fathers are in direct sensory contact
with their infants during the natal period. We found that fathers exposed to
isolated scents of their infant displayed a significant drop in serum
testosterone levels within 20min after exposure, whereas parentally naive males
did not. These data suggest that infant's scent may have a causal role in
regulating paternal testosterone in their fathers. This is the first study to
demonstrate that olfactory cues have an acute effect on paternal care.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2008.0358 
PMCID: PMC2614150
PMID: 18755659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2230. Genet Mol Res. 2008 Jul 29;7(3):663-78.

Evolution of the SEC1 gene in New World monkey lineages (Primates, Platyrrhini).

Borges BN(1), Paiva TS, Harada ML.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Molecular "Francisco Mauro Salzano", Instituto de
Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Pará, Cidade Universitária Prof.
José da Silveira Netto, Belém, PA, Brasil. bnborges@ufpa.br

The structure and evolution of the SEC1 gene were examined for the first time in 
New World primates of the genera Alouatta, Aotus, Ateles, Brachyteles,
Callicebus, Callithrix, Cebus, Chiropotes, Lagothrix, Leontopithecus, Pithecia,
Saguinus, and Saimiri. This gene has a high CG content (63.8%) and an estimated
heterogeneous size ranging from 795 (Callithrix) to 1041 bp (Pithecia), due to
numerous indel events. Similar to other fucosyltransferases, three conserved
regions are shared by these primates, except for the callitrichines, Aotus and
Pithecia, in which indel events resulted in premature stop codons that are
related to the production of a supposedly non-functional protein. Phylogenetic
analysis of the SEC1 gene, transition/transversion rates, and nucleotide sequence
alignment support the hypothesis that primate SEC1 evolved by divergent
evolution, and that the lack of activity in some lineages occurred independently 
at least twice in New World primates, once in the Aotus-Cebus-Callitrichinae
group and again in Pithecia. Likelihood-based inference of ancestral states for
the activity of SEC1 leads us to suppose that inactivation of SEC1 in the
Callitrichinae was a result of a more complex series of events than in Pithecia.

DOI: 10.4238/vol7-3gmr452 
PMID: 18752194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

