

2233. Cereb Cortex. 2009 Apr;19(4):889-98. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhn136. Epub 2008 Aug
22.

Differential contributions of dopamine and serotonin to orbitofrontal cortex
function in the marmoset.

Walker SC(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

We have shown previously that the inhibitory control functions of the
orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) are disrupted by serotonin, but not dopamine
depletions. However, both dopamine and serotonin terminals and receptors are
present within the OFC and thus the aim of the present study was to determine the
differential contributions of these neurotransmitters to orbitofrontal function. 
OFC and dopamine are involved in the process by which neutral stimuli take on
reinforcing properties, by virtue of their prior association with reward, and
guide behavior. Thus, we compared the performance of marmosets with dopaminergic 
or serotoninergic OFC depletions on a test of conditioned reinforcement. To
further our understanding of serotonin in behavioral flexibility, the effect of
these depletions was also compared on the extinction of a visual discrimination. 
Monkeys with serotonin depletions of the OFC displayed stimulus-bound responding 
on both tests of conditioned reinforcement and discrimination extinction
suggesting that orbitofrontal serotonin plays a specific role in preventing
competing, task irrelevant, salient stimuli from biasing responding. In contrast,
monkeys with dopamine depletion were insensitive to conditioned reinforcers and
displayed persistent responding in the absence of reward in extinction, a pattern
of deficits that may reflect basic deficits in the associative processing of
reward.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhn136 
PMCID: PMC2651474
PMID: 18723695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2234. Percept Mot Skills. 2008 Jun;106(3):830-2.

Utility of habituation-dishabituation procedure for comparative cognitive studies
of Callithrix jacchus and Aotus spp.: preliminary assessments.

Kaneko T(1), Tomonaga M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Language and Intelligence, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto
University, Kanrin, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan. tkaneko@pri.kyoto-u.ac.jp

The utility of the habituation-dishabituation procedure was examined in the
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and the owl monkeys (Aotus spp.). The same 
movies were repeatedly shown to monkeys during an habituation phase, followed by 
a test phase during which monkeys were presented with a different movie. The time
monkeys spent looking at the movie gradually decreased during the habituation
phase and then significantly increased when they were presented the new movie.
The limited findings indicate that these monkeys were sensitive to the
habituation-dishabituation paradigm, suggesting that this procedure might be used
to assess cognition and perception.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.106.3.830-832 
PMID: 18712204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

