

2234. Percept Mot Skills. 2008 Jun;106(3):830-2.

Utility of habituation-dishabituation procedure for comparative cognitive studies
of Callithrix jacchus and Aotus spp.: preliminary assessments.

Kaneko T(1), Tomonaga M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Language and Intelligence, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto
University, Kanrin, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan. tkaneko@pri.kyoto-u.ac.jp

The utility of the habituation-dishabituation procedure was examined in the
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and the owl monkeys (Aotus spp.). The same 
movies were repeatedly shown to monkeys during an habituation phase, followed by 
a test phase during which monkeys were presented with a different movie. The time
monkeys spent looking at the movie gradually decreased during the habituation
phase and then significantly increased when they were presented the new movie.
The limited findings indicate that these monkeys were sensitive to the
habituation-dishabituation paradigm, suggesting that this procedure might be used
to assess cognition and perception.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.106.3.830-832 
PMID: 18712204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2235. Mol Cell Biochem. 2008 Dec;319(1-2):181-7. doi: 10.1007/s11010-008-9891-5. Epub
2008 Aug 15.

Construction of a high-performance human fetal liver-derived lentiviral cDNA
library.

Kurita R(1), Oikawa T, Okada M, Yokoo T, Kurihara Y, Honda Y, Kageyama R, Suehiro
Y, Okazaki T, Iga M, Miyoshi H, Tani K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu
University, Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, Japan.

The gene transduction method is a very powerful tool, not only in basic science
but also in clinical medicine. Regenerative medicine is one field that has close 
connection with both basic and clinical. Recently, it has been reported that
induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells can be produced from somatic cells by a
three or four gene transduction. We have also recently reported that lentiviral
gene transfer of the tal1/scl gene can efficiently differentiate non-human
primate common marmoset ES cells into hematopoietic cells without the support of 
stromal cells. In this study, we constructed a high-performance human fetal
liver-derived lentiviral expression library, which contains a high number of
individual clones, in order to develop a very helpful tool for understanding
early hematopoiesis and/or hepatocytosis for future regenerative medicine. Our
lentiviral cDNA library consisted of more than 8 x 10(7) individual clones, and
their average insert size was >2 kb. DNA sequence analysis for each individual
inserted cDNAs revealed that >60% contained the full-length protein-coding
regions for many genes including cytokine receptors, cytoplasmic proteins,
protein inhibitors, and nuclear factors. The transduction efficiency on 293T
cells was 100% and the average size of an integrated cDNA was ~1.1 kb. These
results suggest that our lentiviral human fetal liver cDNA expression library
could be a very helpful tool for accelerating the discovery of novel genes that
are involved in early hematopoiesis and hepatopoiesis and to make the use of iPS 
cells more efficient in the field of regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-008-9891-5 
PMID: 18709335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

