

2236. Mol Vis. 2008 Aug 11;14:1465-79.

Microarray analysis of choroid/RPE gene expression in marmoset eyes undergoing
changes in ocular growth and refraction.

Shelton L(1), Troilo D, Lerner MR, Gusev Y, Brackett DJ, Rada JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Oklahoma Health Science Center, 940 
Stanton L. Young Blvd., Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.

PURPOSE: Visually guided ocular growth is facilitated by scleral extracellular
matrix remodeling at the posterior pole of the eye. Coincident with scleral
remodeling, significant changes in choroidal morphology, blood flow, and protein 
synthesis have been shown to occur in eyes undergoing ocular growth changes. The 
current study is designed to identify gene expression changes that may occur in
the choroid/retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) of marmoset eyes during their
compensation for hyperopic defocus as compared to eyes compensating for myopic
defocus.
METHODS: Total RNA was isolated from choroid/RPE from four common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) undergoing binocular lens treatment using extended wear soft
contact lenses of equal magnitude but opposite sign (+/-5 diopter [D]). After
reverse transcription, cDNA was labeled and hybridized to a human oligonucleotide
microarray and gene transcript expression profiles were determined. Real-time
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and western blot analysis were used to confirm
genes and proteins of interest, respectively.
RESULTS: Microarray analyses in choroid/RPE indicated 204 genes were
significantly changed in minus lens-treated as compared with plus lens-treated
eyes (p<0.05, Student's t-test). Differential choroid/RPE expression of protein
tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type, B (PTPRB), transforming growth factor
beta-induced (TGFBI), and basic fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) were confirmed
by real-time PCR. TGFBIp was confirmed at the protein level by western blot
analysis in marmoset and human cornea, choroid/RPE, and sclera.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that significant gene expression
changes occur in the marmoset choroid/RPE during visually guided ocular growth.
The identification of novel candidate genes in choroid/RPE of marmoset eyes
actively accelerating or decelerating their rates of ocular elongation may
elucidate the choroidal response during the regulation of postnatal ocular growth
and may lead to the identification of choroid/RPE signaling molecules that
participate in scleral remodeling.


PMCID: PMC2504533
PMID: 18698376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2237. Arch Virol. 2008;153(9):1715-23. doi: 10.1007/s00705-008-0184-9. Epub 2008 Aug
12.

A new paramyxovirus, Tianjin strain, isolated from common cotton-eared marmoset: 
genome characterization and structural protein sequence analysis.

Shi LY(1), Li M, Yuan LJ, Wang Q, Li XM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, The College of Basic Medical Science, Tianjin
Medical University, No. 22 Qixiangtai Road, Heping District, Tianjin 300070,
China. shiliying@tijmu.edu.cn

The complete RNA genome sequence of Tianjin strain, isolated from marmoset, has
been determined. The genome was 15,384 nucleotides (nt) in length, which was
identical to that of Sendai virus (SeV), and consisted of six genes in the order 
3'-NP-P/C-M-F-HN-L-5'. The gene junctions contained highly conserved
transcription start and stop signal sequences and trinucleotide intergenic
regions (IGR) similar to those of SeV. There was also an overlapping open reading
frame and a conserved AnGn site (AAAAAGGG) in the P mRNA. Phylogenetic analysis
based on protein sequences from other members of the family Paramyxoviridae
showed that Tianjin strain belonged to the genus Respirovirus and was most
closely related to SeV. Pairwise comparisons of amino acid identities and
phylogenetic analysis with homologous sequences of known SeVs demonstrated that
Tianjin strain represented a new evolutionary lineage of SeV.

DOI: 10.1007/s00705-008-0184-9 
PMID: 18696006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

