

2237. Arch Virol. 2008;153(9):1715-23. doi: 10.1007/s00705-008-0184-9. Epub 2008 Aug
12.

A new paramyxovirus, Tianjin strain, isolated from common cotton-eared marmoset: 
genome characterization and structural protein sequence analysis.

Shi LY(1), Li M, Yuan LJ, Wang Q, Li XM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, The College of Basic Medical Science, Tianjin
Medical University, No. 22 Qixiangtai Road, Heping District, Tianjin 300070,
China. shiliying@tijmu.edu.cn

The complete RNA genome sequence of Tianjin strain, isolated from marmoset, has
been determined. The genome was 15,384 nucleotides (nt) in length, which was
identical to that of Sendai virus (SeV), and consisted of six genes in the order 
3'-NP-P/C-M-F-HN-L-5'. The gene junctions contained highly conserved
transcription start and stop signal sequences and trinucleotide intergenic
regions (IGR) similar to those of SeV. There was also an overlapping open reading
frame and a conserved AnGn site (AAAAAGGG) in the P mRNA. Phylogenetic analysis
based on protein sequences from other members of the family Paramyxoviridae
showed that Tianjin strain belonged to the genus Respirovirus and was most
closely related to SeV. Pairwise comparisons of amino acid identities and
phylogenetic analysis with homologous sequences of known SeVs demonstrated that
Tianjin strain represented a new evolutionary lineage of SeV.

DOI: 10.1007/s00705-008-0184-9 
PMID: 18696006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2238. Hum Reprod. 2008 Dec;23(12):2755-65. doi: 10.1093/humrep/den295. Epub 2008 Aug
11.

Germ cell differentiation in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) during fetal and
neonatal life closely parallels that in the human.

Mitchell RT(1), Cowan G, Morris KD, Anderson RA, Fraser HM, Mckenzie KJ, Wallace 
WH, Kelnar CJ, Saunders PT, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, The
Queen's Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
r.mitchell@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Testicular germ cell tumours (TGCT) are thought to originate from
fetal germ cells that fail to differentiate normally, but no animal model for
these events has been described. We evaluated the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
as a model by comparing perinatal germ cell differentiation with that in humans.
METHODS: Immunohistochemical profiling was used to investigate germ cell
differentiation (OCT4, NANOG, AP-2gamma, MAGE-A4, VASA, NANOS-1) and
proliferation (Ki67) in fetal and neonatal marmoset testes in comparison with the
human and, to a lesser extent, the rat.
RESULTS: In marmosets and humans, differentiation of gonocytes into spermatogonia
is associated with the gradual loss of pluripotency markers such as OCT4 and
NANOG, and the expression of germ cell-specific proteins such as VASA. This
differentiation occurs asynchronously within individual cords during fetal and
early postnatal life. This contrasts with rapid and synchronous germ cell
differentiation within and between cords in the rat. Similarly, germ cell
proliferation in the marmoset and human occurs throughout perinatal life, in
contrast to rats in which proliferation ceases during this period.
CONCLUSIONS: The marmoset provides a good model for normal human germ cell
differentiation and proliferation. The perinatal marmoset may be a useful model
in which to establish factors that lead to failure of normal germ cell
differentiation and the origins of TGCT.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/den295 
PMCID: PMC2583943
PMID: 18694875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

