

2238. Hum Reprod. 2008 Dec;23(12):2755-65. doi: 10.1093/humrep/den295. Epub 2008 Aug
11.

Germ cell differentiation in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) during fetal and
neonatal life closely parallels that in the human.

Mitchell RT(1), Cowan G, Morris KD, Anderson RA, Fraser HM, Mckenzie KJ, Wallace 
WH, Kelnar CJ, Saunders PT, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, The
Queen's Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
r.mitchell@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Testicular germ cell tumours (TGCT) are thought to originate from
fetal germ cells that fail to differentiate normally, but no animal model for
these events has been described. We evaluated the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
as a model by comparing perinatal germ cell differentiation with that in humans.
METHODS: Immunohistochemical profiling was used to investigate germ cell
differentiation (OCT4, NANOG, AP-2gamma, MAGE-A4, VASA, NANOS-1) and
proliferation (Ki67) in fetal and neonatal marmoset testes in comparison with the
human and, to a lesser extent, the rat.
RESULTS: In marmosets and humans, differentiation of gonocytes into spermatogonia
is associated with the gradual loss of pluripotency markers such as OCT4 and
NANOG, and the expression of germ cell-specific proteins such as VASA. This
differentiation occurs asynchronously within individual cords during fetal and
early postnatal life. This contrasts with rapid and synchronous germ cell
differentiation within and between cords in the rat. Similarly, germ cell
proliferation in the marmoset and human occurs throughout perinatal life, in
contrast to rats in which proliferation ceases during this period.
CONCLUSIONS: The marmoset provides a good model for normal human germ cell
differentiation and proliferation. The perinatal marmoset may be a useful model
in which to establish factors that lead to failure of normal germ cell
differentiation and the origins of TGCT.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/den295 
PMCID: PMC2583943
PMID: 18694875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2239. Vaccine. 2008 Sep 26;26(41):5246-54. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.07.057. Epub
2008 Aug 8.

Safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy of the ML29 reassortant vaccine for Lassa
fever in small non-human primates.

Lukashevich IS(1), Carrion R Jr, Salvato MS, Mansfield K, Brasky K, Zapata J,
Cairo C, Goicochea M, Hoosien GE, Ticer A, Bryant J, Davis H, Hammamieh R, Mayda 
M, Jett M, Patterson J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Virology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 725
West Lombard Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, United States.
ilukashevich@ihv.umaryland.edu

A single injection of ML29 reassortant vaccine for Lassa fever induces low,
transient viremia, and low or moderate levels of ML29 replication in tissues of
common marmosets depending on the dose of the vaccination. The vaccination
elicits specific immune responses and completely protects marmosets against fatal
disease by induction of sterilizing cell-mediated immunity. DNA array analysis of
human peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy donors exposed to ML29
revealed that gene expression patterns in ML29-exposed PBMC and control,
media-exposed PBMC, clustered together confirming safety profile of the ML29 in
non-human primates. The ML29 reassortant is a promising vaccine candidate for
Lassa fever.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.07.057 
PMCID: PMC2582173
PMID: 18692539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

