

2241. Bing Du Xue Bao. 2008 May;24(3):234-8.

[Expression and analysis of the nucleoprotein of paramyxovirus Tianjin strain].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Q(1), Li M, Shi LY, Yuan LJ, Wang WX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, China.
wangqing_diamond@yahoo.com.cn

Paramyxovirus Tianjin strain is a novel strain of virus causing common
cotton-eared marmoset fatal infection. To investigate the relationship between
the gene structure and function of nucleoprotein (NP) of Tianjin strain, NP gene 
of paramyxovirus Tianjin strain was cloned and three domains of NP were
expressed. The homologous and phylogenetic analysis of NP sequences among the
paramyxovirus Tianjin strain and eight strains of Sendai viruses from GenBank
were performed. The results indicated the recombinant proteins NP1, NP2 and NP3
showed the native antigenicity to the polyclonal antiserum of paramyxovirus
Tianjin strain, ranking as NP3>NP1>NP2 (precedence order). The homology of NP
nucleotide and the deduced amino acid sequences between paramyxovirus Tianjin
strain and Sendai virus BB1 strain were 94.5%, 96.2%, respectively, whereas the
identity were 85.1% - 88.7% and 92.4% - 94.7% among Tianjin strain and the 7
strains of Sendai viruses from GenBank respectively. There were 15 unique amino
acid substitutions in Tianjin strain NP protein and 11 common amino acid
substitutions same with BB1 strain. This research confirmed that paramyxovirus
Tianjin strain might be a new genotype of Sendai virus and can be helpful in the 
establishment of detection assay applying recombinant NP as antigen instead of
the whole virions.


PMID: 18683562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2242. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Oct 10;510(5):539-49. doi: 10.1002/cne.21813.

The midget-parvocellular pathway of marmoset retina: a quantitative light
microscopic study.

Telkes I(1), Lee SC, Jusuf PR, GrÃ¼nert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

The midget-parvocellular pathway in foveal retina of primates shows a "private
line" (one-to-one) connectivity with cone photoreceptors. The connectivity of
this pathway outside the fovea is not well understood. Here, we studied the
population of OFF midget bipolar cells across the retinae of marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) by using light microscopy. Cone pedicles were labeled with
peanut agglutinin, OFF midget bipolar cells were labeled with antibodies against 
CD15, and midget ganglion cells were retrogradely labeled from the lateral
geniculate nucleus and subsequently photofilled. Each midget bipolar cell
contacts a single cone in foveal retina, but outside the fovea midget bipolar
cells contact multiple cones: one to two cones at 1 mm ( approximately 8
degrees); three to four cones at 3-4 mm ( approximately 25 degrees); and five or 
more cones beyond 6 mm (>50 degrees). Throughout this eccentricity range, all
medium (M) and long (L) wavelength sensitive cones make similar number of
contacts with midget bipolar cells, but short wavelength sensitive (S) cones make
little or no contact. By calculating the numerical convergence between midget
bipolar and midget ganglion cells, we estimate that midget ganglion cells receive
input from up to 25 cones at approximately 5 degrees, and from more than 65 cones
at approximately 50 degrees. No obvious differences were seen between the retinae
of animals with di- or trichromatic color vision. The finding that the one-to-one
connectivity is restricted to the fovea predicts that in marmosets spectral
mixing of M/L cone inputs will occur peripheral to 10 degrees of visual angle.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21813 
PMID: 18683219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

