

2242. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Oct 10;510(5):539-49. doi: 10.1002/cne.21813.

The midget-parvocellular pathway of marmoset retina: a quantitative light
microscopic study.

Telkes I(1), Lee SC, Jusuf PR, GrÃ¼nert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

The midget-parvocellular pathway in foveal retina of primates shows a "private
line" (one-to-one) connectivity with cone photoreceptors. The connectivity of
this pathway outside the fovea is not well understood. Here, we studied the
population of OFF midget bipolar cells across the retinae of marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) by using light microscopy. Cone pedicles were labeled with
peanut agglutinin, OFF midget bipolar cells were labeled with antibodies against 
CD15, and midget ganglion cells were retrogradely labeled from the lateral
geniculate nucleus and subsequently photofilled. Each midget bipolar cell
contacts a single cone in foveal retina, but outside the fovea midget bipolar
cells contact multiple cones: one to two cones at 1 mm ( approximately 8
degrees); three to four cones at 3-4 mm ( approximately 25 degrees); and five or 
more cones beyond 6 mm (>50 degrees). Throughout this eccentricity range, all
medium (M) and long (L) wavelength sensitive cones make similar number of
contacts with midget bipolar cells, but short wavelength sensitive (S) cones make
little or no contact. By calculating the numerical convergence between midget
bipolar and midget ganglion cells, we estimate that midget ganglion cells receive
input from up to 25 cones at approximately 5 degrees, and from more than 65 cones
at approximately 50 degrees. No obvious differences were seen between the retinae
of animals with di- or trichromatic color vision. The finding that the one-to-one
connectivity is restricted to the fovea predicts that in marmosets spectral
mixing of M/L cone inputs will occur peripheral to 10 degrees of visual angle.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21813 
PMID: 18683219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2243. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2009 Mar;10(1):33-42. doi: 10.1007/s11154-008-9099-8.

Nonhuman primates as models for human adrenal androgen production: function and
dysfunction.

Abbott DH(1), Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI 53715, USA.

The origin of circulating DHEA and adrenal-derived androgens in humans and
nonhuman primates is largely distinct from other mammalian species. In humans and
many Old world primates, the fetal adrenal gland and adult zona reticularis (ZR) 
are known to be the source for production of DHEA (and DHEAS) in mg quantities.
In spite of similarities there are also some differences. Herein, we take a
comparative endocrine approach to the diversity of adrenal androgen biosynthesis 
and its developmental timing in three primate species to illustrate how
understanding such differences may provide unique insight into mechanisms
underlying adrenal androgen regulation and its pathophysiology in humans. We
contrast the conventional developmental onset of adrenal DHEA biosynthesis at
adrenarche in humans with (1) an earlier, peri-partutrition onset of adrenal DHEA
synthesis in rhesus macaques (Old World primate) and (2) a more dynamic and
reversible onset of adrenal DHEA biosynthesis in female marmosets (New World
primate), and further consider these events in terms of the corresponding
developmental changes in expression of CYP17, HSD3B2 and CYB5 in the ZR. We also 
integrate these observations with recently described biochemical characterization
of CYP17 cDNA cloned from each of these nonhuman primate species and the
corresponding effects of phosphorylation versus CYB5 coexpression on 17,20 lyase 
versus 17-hydroxylase activity in each case. In addition, female rhesus macaques 
exposed in utero to exogenous androgen excess, exhibit symptoms of adrenal
hyperandrogenism in adult females in a manner reminiscent of that seen in the
human condition of PCOS. The possible mechanisms underlying such adrenal
hyperandrogenism are further considered in terms of the effects of altered
relative expression of CYP17, HSD3B2 and CYB5 as well as the altered signaling
responses of various kinases including protein kinase A, or the insulin sensitive
PI3-kinase/AKT signaling pathway which may impact on 17,20 lyase activity. We
conclude that while the triggers for the onset of ZR function in all three
species show clear differences (age, stage of development, social status,
gender), there are still common mechanisms driving an increase in DHEA
biosynthesis in each case. A full understanding of the mechanisms that control
17,20 lyase function and dysfunction in humans may best be achieved by
comparative studies of the endocrine mechanisms controlling adrenal ZR function
and dysfunction in these nonhuman primate species.

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-008-9099-8 
PMCID: PMC2653599
PMID: 18683055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

