

2243. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2009 Mar;10(1):33-42. doi: 10.1007/s11154-008-9099-8.

Nonhuman primates as models for human adrenal androgen production: function and
dysfunction.

Abbott DH(1), Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI 53715, USA.

The origin of circulating DHEA and adrenal-derived androgens in humans and
nonhuman primates is largely distinct from other mammalian species. In humans and
many Old world primates, the fetal adrenal gland and adult zona reticularis (ZR) 
are known to be the source for production of DHEA (and DHEAS) in mg quantities.
In spite of similarities there are also some differences. Herein, we take a
comparative endocrine approach to the diversity of adrenal androgen biosynthesis 
and its developmental timing in three primate species to illustrate how
understanding such differences may provide unique insight into mechanisms
underlying adrenal androgen regulation and its pathophysiology in humans. We
contrast the conventional developmental onset of adrenal DHEA biosynthesis at
adrenarche in humans with (1) an earlier, peri-partutrition onset of adrenal DHEA
synthesis in rhesus macaques (Old World primate) and (2) a more dynamic and
reversible onset of adrenal DHEA biosynthesis in female marmosets (New World
primate), and further consider these events in terms of the corresponding
developmental changes in expression of CYP17, HSD3B2 and CYB5 in the ZR. We also 
integrate these observations with recently described biochemical characterization
of CYP17 cDNA cloned from each of these nonhuman primate species and the
corresponding effects of phosphorylation versus CYB5 coexpression on 17,20 lyase 
versus 17-hydroxylase activity in each case. In addition, female rhesus macaques 
exposed in utero to exogenous androgen excess, exhibit symptoms of adrenal
hyperandrogenism in adult females in a manner reminiscent of that seen in the
human condition of PCOS. The possible mechanisms underlying such adrenal
hyperandrogenism are further considered in terms of the effects of altered
relative expression of CYP17, HSD3B2 and CYB5 as well as the altered signaling
responses of various kinases including protein kinase A, or the insulin sensitive
PI3-kinase/AKT signaling pathway which may impact on 17,20 lyase activity. We
conclude that while the triggers for the onset of ZR function in all three
species show clear differences (age, stage of development, social status,
gender), there are still common mechanisms driving an increase in DHEA
biosynthesis in each case. A full understanding of the mechanisms that control
17,20 lyase function and dysfunction in humans may best be achieved by
comparative studies of the endocrine mechanisms controlling adrenal ZR function
and dysfunction in these nonhuman primate species.

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-008-9099-8 
PMCID: PMC2653599
PMID: 18683055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2244. Neurosci Lett. 2008 Oct 3;443(2):99-103. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2008.07.065. Epub 
2008 Jul 30.

Discrete retinal input to the parabrachial complex of a new-world primate, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Engelberth RC(1), de Pontes AL, do Nascimento RB, de Lima RR, de Lima RR, de
Toledo CA, de Oliveira Costa MS, Britto LR, de Souza Cavalcante J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Chronobiology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio
Grande do Norte, 59072-970 Natal-RN, Brazil.

Traditional retinal projections target three functionally complementary systems
in the brain of mammals: the primary visual system, the visuomotor integration
systems and the circadian timing system. In recent years, studies in several
animals have been conducted to investigate the retinal projections to these three
systems, despite some evidence of additional targets. The aim of this study was
to disclose a previously unknown connection between the retina and the
parabrachial complex of the common marmoset, by means of the intraocular
injection of cholera toxin subunit b. A few labeled retinal fibers/terminals that
are detected in the medial parabrachial portion of the marmoset brain show clear 
varicosities, suggesting terminal fields. Although the possible role of these
projections remains unknown, they may provide a modulation of the cholinergic
parabrachial neurons which project to the thalamic dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2008.07.065 
PMID: 18682276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

