

2246. Prostate. 2008 Oct 1;68(14):1546-54. doi: 10.1002/pros.20814.

Nonhuman primates as models for studies of prostate specific antigen and
prostatic diseases.

Mubiru JN(1), Hubbard GB, Dick EJ Jr, Furman J, Troyer DA, Rogers J.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Southwest Foundation for
Biomedical Research, San Antonio, Texas 78245-0549, USA. jmubiru@sfbr.org

BACKGROUND: Because prostate specific antigen (PSA) is released at increased
levels into the blood early in the development of prostate cancer, benign
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostatitis, it is widely used as a marker for
these diseases. However, PSA has clinical limitations as a screen for prostatic
diseases due to its low sensitivity and specificity. There is a strong need to
better understand the biology of PSA and factors affecting its serum levels.
METHODS: We evaluated cynomolgus macaques, rhesus macaques, baboons, and
marmosets for their suitability as models for the study of PSA biology and
prostatic diseases.
RESULTS: Prostates of several nonhuman primates are anatomically similar to the
human counterpart. Anti-human PSA antibody detected PSA antigens in all the Old
World monkeys (cynomolgus macaques, rhesus macaques, and baboons) but not in
marmosets. Of the Old World monkeys, cynomolgus macaques have the highest serum
PSA levels; baboons have the lowest. Serum PSA levels from macaques includes a
number of outlier samples with unusually high values. We also report two cases of
abnormal pathologies in macaques accompanied by high serum PSA levels. One case
consisted of prostatic hyperplasia involving both glandular and basal cells in a 
cynomolgus macaque and another of glandular hyperplasia and atrophy in a rhesus
macaque. The finding that pathological changes in the prostate of macaques may
lead to increases in serum PSA is worthy of further exploration.
CONCLUSION: Cynomolgus macaques and rhesus macaques are promising animal models
for PSA biology studies.

DOI: 10.1002/pros.20814 
PMCID: PMC2559969
PMID: 18668524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2247. J Med Chem. 2008 Aug 28;51(16):4858-61. doi: 10.1021/jm800546t. Epub 2008 Jul 30.

Discovery of
(R)-4-(8-fluoro-2-oxo-1,2-dihydroquinazolin-3(4H)-yl)-N-(3-(7-methyl-1H-indazol-5
-yl)-1-oxo-1-(4-(piperidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)propan-2-yl)piperidine-1-carboxami
de (BMS-694153): a potent antagonist of the human calcitonin gene-related peptide
receptor for migraine with rapid and efficient intranasal exposure.

Degnan AP(1), Chaturvedula PV, Conway CM, Cook DA, Davis CD, Denton R, Han X,
Macci R, Mathias NR, Moench P, Pin SS, Ren SX, Schartman R, Signor LJ, Thalody G,
Widmann KA, Xu C, Macor JE, Dubowchik GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience Chemistry, Bristol-Myers Squibb Research &
Development,Wallingford, Connecticut 06492, USA. andrew.degnan@bms.com

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of
migraine. Early chemistry leads suffered from modest potency, significant CYP3A4 
inhibition, and poor aqueous solubility. Herein, we describe the optimization of 
these leads to give 4 (BMS-694153), a molecule with outstanding potency, a
favorable predictive toxicology profile, and remarkable aqueous solubility.
Compound 4 has good intranasal bioavailability in rabbits and shows
dose-dependent activity in validated in vivo and ex vivo migraine models.

DOI: 10.1021/jm800546t 
PMID: 18665579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

