

2249. Behav Brain Res. 2008 Dec 12;194(2):152-61. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2008.06.035. Epub 
2008 Jul 6.

A novel adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor antagonist ASP5854 ameliorates motor
impairment in MPTP-treated marmosets: comparison with existing anti-Parkinson's
disease drugs.

Mihara T(1), Iwashita A, Matsuoka N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Pharmacology Research Labs, Astellas Pharma Inc., 
21 Miyukigaoka, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8585, Japan. takuma.mihara@jp.astellas.com

Recent evidence indicates that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists hold
therapeutic potential for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). A study on
the novel adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor dual antagonist
5-[5-amino-3-(4-fluorophenyl)pyrazin-2-yl]-1-isopropylpyridine-2(1H)-one
(ASP5854) showed it to be effective in various rodents models of PD and
cognition. In the present study, we further investigated the potential of ASP5854
as an anti-PD drug using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated common marmosets, which is a highly predictive model of clinical
efficacy in PD, and compared its effect with those of existing anti-PD drugs.
ASP5854 significantly and dose-dependently improved the total motor disability
score for 7h at doses higher than 1mg/kg, and significantly increased total
locomotor activity at doses higher than 0.1mg/kg without adverse effects.
l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine+benserazide and bromocriptine also significantly
improved the motor disability score and the hypolocomotion caused by MPTP
treatment in a dose-dependent fashion. This amelioration was significant at 32+8 
and 10-32 mg/kg, respectively, although bromocriptine induced severe emesis.
Trihexiphenidyl also significantly improved the total motor disability score at
doses of 10-32 mg/kg; however, while a significant increase in the total
locomotor activity was observed at 10mg/kg, the drug induced ataxia-like behavior
at 32 mg/kg. On the other hand, neither selegiline nor amantadine improved the
total motor disability and hypolocomotion. These data substantiate the evidence
that the novel adenosine antagonist ASP5854 exerts comparable anti-PD activity
with existing anti-PD drugs, which indicates that ASP5854 might have potential to
ameliorate motor deficits in PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2008.06.035 
PMID: 18657577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2250. Neurobiol Dis. 2008 Oct;32(1):66-80. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.06.014. Epub 2008
Jul 3.

PACAP prevents toxicity induced by cisplatin in rat and primate neurons but not
in proliferating ovary cells: involvement of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway.

Aubert N(1), Vaudry D, Falluel-Morel A, Desfeux A, Fisch C, Ancian P, de Jouffrey
S, Le Bigot JF, Couvineau A, Laburthe M, Fournier A, Laudenbach V, Vaudry H,
Gonzalez BJ.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U413, Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neuroendocrinology, European
Institute for Peptide Research (IFRMP 23), University of Rouen,
Mont-Saint-Aignan, France.

Cisplatin is a chemotherapeutic agent whose use is limited by side effects
including neuropathies. In proliferating cells, toxic action of cisplatin is
based on DNA interactions, while, in quiescent cells, it can induce apoptosis by 
interacting with proteins. In the present study, we compared cytotoxic mechanisms
activated by cisplatin in primate and rodent neurons and in ovary cells in order 
to determine whether the anti-apoptotic peptide PACAP could selectively reduce
neurotoxicity. In quiescent neurons, JNK and sphingomyelinase inhibitors blocked 
cisplatin-induced cell death. Toxicity was associated with DNA laddering,
caspase-3 and -9 activations and Bax induction. These effects were prevented by
PACAP. In proliferating cells, cisplatin activated caspase-8 but had no effect on
caspase-9. PACAP exerted no protective effect. These data indicate that cisplatin
activates distinct apoptotic pathways in quiescent neurons and proliferating
cells and that PACAP may reduce neurotoxicity of cisplatin without affecting its 
chemotherapeutic efficacy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.06.014 
PMID: 18652895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

