

2252. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Sep 20;510(3):251-68. doi: 10.1002/cne.21783.

Retinal ganglion cell inputs to the koniocellular pathway.

Szmajda BA(1), Grünert U, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, VIC, Australia.

To understand the transmission of sensory signals in visual pathways we studied
the morphology and central projection of ganglion cell populations in marmoset
monkeys. Retinal ganglion cells were labeled by photofilling following injections
of retrograde tracer in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), or by intracellular
injection with neurobiotin. Ganglion cell morphology was analyzed using
hierarchical cluster analysis. In addition to midget and parasol ganglion cells, 
this method distinguished three main clusters of wide-field cells that correspond
to small bistratified, sparse, and broad thorny cells identified previously. The 
small bistratified and sparse cells occupy neighboring positions on the
hierarchical (linkage distance) tree. These cell types are presumed to carry
signals originating in short-wavelength sensitive (S or "blue") cones in the
retina. The linkage distance from these putative S-cone pathway ganglion cells to
other wide-field cells is similar to the linkage distance from midget cells to
parasol cells, suggesting that S-cone cells form a distinct functional subgroup
of ganglion cells. Small bistratified cells and large sparse cells were the most 
commonly labeled wide-field cells following LGN injections in koniocellular layer
K3. This is consistent with physiological evidence that the role of this layer
includes transmission of S-cone signals to the visual cortex. Other wide-field
cell types were also labeled following injections including K3, and other
koniocellular LGN layers; these cell types may correspond to "non-blue
koniocellular" receptive fields recorded in physiological studies.

Copyright 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21783 
PMID: 18626946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2253. Hum Reprod. 2008 Oct;23(10):2292-8. doi: 10.1093/humrep/den253. Epub 2008 Jul 10.

Glycan stem-cell markers are specifically expressed by spermatogonia in the adult
non-human primate testis.

Müller T(1), Eildermann K, Dhir R, Schlatt S, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Research Group, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The glycan cell surface molecules, stage-specific embryonic antigen
(SSEA)-1, -3 and -4 and tumor-rejection antigen (TRA)-1-60 and -1-81, are
expressed in specific combinations by undifferentiated pluripotent cells, i.e.
embryonic stem cells, induced pluripotent stem cells, embryonal carcinoma cells, 
primordial germ cells and embryonic germ cells. Upon differentiation of the
cells, these markers vanish. Recently, it has been shown that also neonatal and
adult mouse testes contain pluripotent cells. Here, we aimed at identifying in
situ possibly pluripotent cells in the adult primate testis.
METHODS: Monoclonal antibodies raised against the glyco-epitopes SSEA-1, -3 and
-4 and TRA-1-60 and -1-81, respectively, were tested to detect cells expressing
the antigens, by immunohistochemistry on Bouin's-fixed and paraffin-embedded
adult primate testes. Man, the new-world monkey, Callithrix jacchus (common
marmoset), and the old-world monkey species, Macaca mulatta (Rhesus macaque) and 
Macaca silenus (Lion-tailed macaque), were included. The percentage of
SSEA-4-positive cells in three adult marmoset testes was determined using flow
cytometry.
RESULTS: Spermatogonia in the testes of C. jacchus were labeled by SSEA-4,
TRA-1-60 and -1-81-antibodies. In the macaques, spermatogonia were detected by
SSEA-4 and TRA-1-81-antibodies. TRA-1-61 did not bind to macaque spermatogonia.
Also, SSEA-1 and -3 did not bind to spermatogonia in any species. In human
testes, we never obtained any clear staining. The total percentage of
SSEA-4-positive cells in marmoset testes was 8.6 +/- 1.61%.
CONCLUSIONS: SSEA-4 and TRA-1-81-antibodies may be very well suited for the
identification and isolation of spermatogonia, and possibly also germline stem
cells, in the non-human primate testis.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/den253 
PMCID: PMC2721722
PMID: 18621756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

