

2253. Hum Reprod. 2008 Oct;23(10):2292-8. doi: 10.1093/humrep/den253. Epub 2008 Jul 10.

Glycan stem-cell markers are specifically expressed by spermatogonia in the adult
non-human primate testis.

Müller T(1), Eildermann K, Dhir R, Schlatt S, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Research Group, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The glycan cell surface molecules, stage-specific embryonic antigen
(SSEA)-1, -3 and -4 and tumor-rejection antigen (TRA)-1-60 and -1-81, are
expressed in specific combinations by undifferentiated pluripotent cells, i.e.
embryonic stem cells, induced pluripotent stem cells, embryonal carcinoma cells, 
primordial germ cells and embryonic germ cells. Upon differentiation of the
cells, these markers vanish. Recently, it has been shown that also neonatal and
adult mouse testes contain pluripotent cells. Here, we aimed at identifying in
situ possibly pluripotent cells in the adult primate testis.
METHODS: Monoclonal antibodies raised against the glyco-epitopes SSEA-1, -3 and
-4 and TRA-1-60 and -1-81, respectively, were tested to detect cells expressing
the antigens, by immunohistochemistry on Bouin's-fixed and paraffin-embedded
adult primate testes. Man, the new-world monkey, Callithrix jacchus (common
marmoset), and the old-world monkey species, Macaca mulatta (Rhesus macaque) and 
Macaca silenus (Lion-tailed macaque), were included. The percentage of
SSEA-4-positive cells in three adult marmoset testes was determined using flow
cytometry.
RESULTS: Spermatogonia in the testes of C. jacchus were labeled by SSEA-4,
TRA-1-60 and -1-81-antibodies. In the macaques, spermatogonia were detected by
SSEA-4 and TRA-1-81-antibodies. TRA-1-61 did not bind to macaque spermatogonia.
Also, SSEA-1 and -3 did not bind to spermatogonia in any species. In human
testes, we never obtained any clear staining. The total percentage of
SSEA-4-positive cells in marmoset testes was 8.6 +/- 1.61%.
CONCLUSIONS: SSEA-4 and TRA-1-81-antibodies may be very well suited for the
identification and isolation of spermatogonia, and possibly also germline stem
cells, in the non-human primate testis.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/den253 
PMCID: PMC2721722
PMID: 18621756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2254. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Jul 15;105(28):9787-92. doi:
10.1073/pnas.0800417105. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

Uncoupling of behavioral and autonomic responses after lesions of the primate
orbitofrontal cortex.

Reekie YL(1), Braesicke K, Man MS, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development, and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.

Successful adaptation to changes in an animal's emotional and motivational
environment depends on behavioral flexibility accompanied by changes in bodily
responses, e.g., autonomic and endocrine, which support the change in behavior.
Here, we identify the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) as pivotal in the flexible
regulation and coordination of behavioral and autonomic responses during
adaptation. Using an appetitive Pavlovian task, we demonstrate that OFC lesions
in the marmoset (i) impair an animal's ability to rapidly suppress its appetitive
cardiovascular arousal upon termination of a conditioned stimulus and (ii) cause 
an uncoupling of the behavioral and autonomic components of the adaptive response
after reversal of the reward contingencies. These findings highlight the role of 
the OFC in emotional regulation and are highly relevant to our understanding of
disorders such as schizophrenia and autism in which uncoupling of emotional
responses may contribute to the experiential distress and disadvantageous
behavior associated with these disorders.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0800417105 
PMCID: PMC2447863
PMID: 18621690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

