

2256. Am J Primatol. 2008 Oct;70(10):999-1002. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20593.

Food transfer in common marmosets: parents change their tolerance depending on
the age of offspring.

Saito A(1), Izumi A, Nakamura K.

Author information: 
(1)JSPS, Tokyo, Japan. atsuko@ncnp.go.jp

Food transfer is considered to provide infants with additional nutrients during
weaning, and in fact, its frequency peaks around this time. However, the
mechanisms underlying such food transfer remain unclear. In this study, we
investigated whether adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) change their
tolerance to offspring begging for food depending on the offspring's age. We used
four families consisting of breeding pairs, older offspring (29-49 weeks old),
and younger offspring (7-15 weeks old). To directly compare the responses of a
parent with its older and younger offspring, we placed one parent and one
offspring in a testing space at one time. We presented foods where only the
parent could reach them to ensure that the foods were transferred from the parent
to offspring. Younger offspring showed more interest in food being held by the
parents than older offspring. Parents refused older offspring more frequently
than younger offspring and transferred food more often to younger offspring than 
to older offspring. There was no difference in all behavioral categories between 
fathers and mothers. These results suggest that both fathers and mothers are more
tolerant to weanlings, but their tolerance decreases as offspring mature.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20593 
PMID: 18615460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2257. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2009 May;34(6):1381-94. doi: 10.1038/npp.2008.106. Epub 
2008 Jul 9.

Early parental deprivation in the marmoset monkey produces long-term changes in
hippocampal expression of genes involved in synaptic plasticity and implicated in
mood disorder.

Law AJ(1), Pei Q, Walker M, Gordon-Andrews H, Weickert CS, Feldon J, Pryce CR,
Harrison PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford,
Oxfordshire OX3 7JX, UK.

In mood disorder, early stressors including parental separation are vulnerability
factors, and hippocampal involvement is prominent. In common marmoset monkeys,
daily parental deprivation during infancy produces a prodepressive state of
increased basal activity and reactivity in stress systems and mild anhedonia that
persists at least to adolescence. Here we examined the expression of eight genes,
each implicated in neural plasticity and in the pathophysiology of mood disorder,
in the hippocampus of these same adolescent marmosets, relative to their normally
reared sibling controls. We also measured hippocampal volume. Early deprivation
led to decreases in hippocampal growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) mRNA,
serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)R) mRNA and binding ([3H]WAY100635), and to
increased vesicular GABA transporter mRNA. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor
(BDNF), synaptophysin, vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGluT1),
microtubule-associated protein-2, and spinophilin transcripts were unchanged.
There were some correlations with in vivo biochemical and behavioral indices,
including VGluT1 mRNA with reward-seeking behavior, and serotonin 1A receptor
mRNA with CSF cortisol. Early deprivation did not affect hippocampal volume. We
conclude that early deprivation in a nonhuman primate, in the absence of
subsequent stressors, has a long-term effect on the hippocampal expression of
genes implicated in synaptic function and plasticity. The reductions in GAP-43
and serotonin 1A receptor expressions are comparable with findings in mood
disorder, supporting the possibility that the latter reflect an early
developmental contribution to disease vulnerability. Equally, the negative
results suggest that other features of mood disorder, such as decreased
hippocampal volume and BDNF expression, are related to different aspects of the
pathophysiological process.

DOI: 10.1038/npp.2008.106 
PMCID: PMC2669475
PMID: 18615010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

