

2257. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2009 May;34(6):1381-94. doi: 10.1038/npp.2008.106. Epub 
2008 Jul 9.

Early parental deprivation in the marmoset monkey produces long-term changes in
hippocampal expression of genes involved in synaptic plasticity and implicated in
mood disorder.

Law AJ(1), Pei Q, Walker M, Gordon-Andrews H, Weickert CS, Feldon J, Pryce CR,
Harrison PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, University of Oxford, Oxford,
Oxfordshire OX3 7JX, UK.

In mood disorder, early stressors including parental separation are vulnerability
factors, and hippocampal involvement is prominent. In common marmoset monkeys,
daily parental deprivation during infancy produces a prodepressive state of
increased basal activity and reactivity in stress systems and mild anhedonia that
persists at least to adolescence. Here we examined the expression of eight genes,
each implicated in neural plasticity and in the pathophysiology of mood disorder,
in the hippocampus of these same adolescent marmosets, relative to their normally
reared sibling controls. We also measured hippocampal volume. Early deprivation
led to decreases in hippocampal growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) mRNA,
serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)R) mRNA and binding ([3H]WAY100635), and to
increased vesicular GABA transporter mRNA. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor
(BDNF), synaptophysin, vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGluT1),
microtubule-associated protein-2, and spinophilin transcripts were unchanged.
There were some correlations with in vivo biochemical and behavioral indices,
including VGluT1 mRNA with reward-seeking behavior, and serotonin 1A receptor
mRNA with CSF cortisol. Early deprivation did not affect hippocampal volume. We
conclude that early deprivation in a nonhuman primate, in the absence of
subsequent stressors, has a long-term effect on the hippocampal expression of
genes implicated in synaptic function and plasticity. The reductions in GAP-43
and serotonin 1A receptor expressions are comparable with findings in mood
disorder, supporting the possibility that the latter reflect an early
developmental contribution to disease vulnerability. Equally, the negative
results suggest that other features of mood disorder, such as decreased
hippocampal volume and BDNF expression, are related to different aspects of the
pathophysiological process.

DOI: 10.1038/npp.2008.106 
PMCID: PMC2669475
PMID: 18615010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2258. J Virol. 2008 Sep;82(18):9035-42. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00674-08. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a nonhuman primate model to assess the
virulence of eastern equine encephalitis virus strains.

Adams AP(1), Aronson JF, Tardif SD, Patterson JL, Brasky KM, Geiger R, de la
Garza M, Carrion R Jr, Weaver SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Sealy Center for Vaccine Development, University
of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555, USA.

Eastern equine encephalitis virus (EEEV) produces the most severe human arboviral
disease in North America (NA) and is a potential biological weapon. However,
genetically and antigenically distinct strains from South America (SA) have
seldom been associated with human disease or mortality despite serological
evidence of infection. Because mice and other small rodents do not respond
differently to the NA versus SA viruses like humans, we tested common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) by using intranasal infection and monitoring for weight
loss, fever, anorexia, depression, and neurologic signs. The NA EEEV-infected
animals either died or were euthanized on day 4 or 5 after infection due to
anorexia and neurologic signs, but the SA EEEV-infected animals remained healthy 
and survived. The SA EEEV-infected animals developed peak viremia titers of 2.8
to 3.1 log(10) PFU/ml on day 2 or 4 after infection, but there was no detectable 
viremia in the NA EEEV-infected animals. In contrast, virus was detected in the
brain, liver, and muscle of the NA EEEV-infected animals at the time of
euthanasia or death. Similar to the brain lesions described for human EEE, the NA
EEEV-infected animals developed meningoencephalitis in the cerebral cortex with
some perivascular hemorrhages. The findings of this study identify the common
marmoset as a useful model of human EEE for testing antiviral drugs and vaccine
candidates and highlight their potential for corroborating epidemiological
evidence that some, if not all, SA EEEV strains are attenuated for humans.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00674-08 
PMCID: PMC2546911
PMID: 18614636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

