

2259. Hear Res. 2008 Sep;243(1-2):57-68. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2008.05.006. Epub 2008
May 23.

Distortion-product otoacoustic emissions in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): parameter optimization.

Valero MD(1), Pasanen EG, McFadden D, Ratnam R.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas at San Antonio, Department of Biology, One UTSA Circle,
San Antonio, TX 78249, USA.

Distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) were measured in a New World
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We determined the optimal
primary-tone frequency ratio (f(2)/f(1)) to generate DPOAEs of maximal amplitude 
between 3 and 24 kHz. The optimal f(2)/f(1), determined by varying f(2)/f(1) from
1.02 to 1.40 using equilevel primary tones, decreased with increasing f(2)
frequency between 3 and 17 kHz, and increased at 24 kHz. The optimal f(2)/f(1)
ratio increased with increasing primary-tone levels from 50 to 74 dB SPL. When
all stimulus parameters were considered, the mean optimal f(2)/f(1) was
1.224-1.226. Additionally, we determined the effect of reducing L(2) below L(1). 
Decreasing L(2) below L(1) by 0, 5, and 10 dB (f(2)/f(1)=1.21) minimally affected
DPOAE strength. DPOAE levels were stronger in females than males and stronger in 
the right ear than the left, just as in humans. This study is the first to
measure OAEs in the marmoset, and the results indicate that the effect of varying
the frequency ratio and primary-tone level difference on marmoset DPOAEs is
similar to the reported effects in humans and Old World primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2008.05.006 
PMCID: PMC2567920
PMID: 18586424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2260. Toxicol Lett. 2008 Aug 28;180(3):157-65. doi: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2008.05.018. Epub 
2008 Jun 5.

Cardiovascular toxicity of minoxidil in the marmoset.

Hanton G(1), Sobry C, Daguès N, Rochefort GY, Bonnet P, Eder V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology and Comparative Medicine, Pfizer Global Research and 
Development, Z.I. Pocé-sur-Cisse, BP 159, F-37401 Amboise Cedex, France.
gilles.hanton@yahoo.fr

The aim of the experiments was to assess the toxicity of minoxidil, a potent
vasodilator, in marmosets. The animals were treated either at escalating doses
from 2 to 40 mg/kg, escalating doses from 40 to 200 mg/kg or single doses of 150 
mg/kg or 200 mg/kg. ECG recording and echocardiographic examination were
conducted before and 1h after treatment. Necropsy and histopathology were
performed 24h after the last dose. The treatment with minoxidil induced
myocardial necrosis, coronary arteriopathy and degeneration of renal tubules in
animals treated with 150 mg/kg or 200 mg/kg. Myocardial necrosis associated with 
fibrosis in some animals was located mainly in the left and right ventricles
(including papillary muscles), but also in the right atrium, left atrium and/or
interventricular septum. Arteriopathy was observed in small coronary arteries of 
the right or left atrium. ECG and echocardiographic examinations showed that in
animals treated with 150 mg/kg or 200 mg/kg, there were positive chronotropic and
inotropic effects that compensated for the hypotensive effect of the drug and
were considered to have played a key role in the pathogenesis of the
cardiovascular lesions. The cardiotoxicity of minoxidil in marmosets was similar 
to that described in dogs, but occurred at much higher doses. In conclusion
minoxidil produced cardiovascular toxicity in the marmoset, which was probably
due to the marked changes in the cardiac function associated with exaggerated
pharmacological effects of the compound. The marmosets were found to be less
sensitive than dogs to the cardiotoxicity of minoxidil.

DOI: 10.1016/j.toxlet.2008.05.018 
PMID: 18582543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

