

2261. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2008 Jun;215(2):167-80.

Comparison of 30 immunity-related genes from the common marmoset with orthologues
from human and mouse.

Kohu K(1), Yamabe E, Matsuzawa A, Onda D, Suemizu H, Sasaki E, Tanioka Y, Yagita 
H, Suzuki D, Kametani Y, Takai T, Toyoda A, Habu S, Satake M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Immunology, Institute of Development, Aging and
Cancer, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.

In the evolution of primates, the common marmoset belongs to the new world monkey
family and is distinct from the great ape family (which includes humans). In this
study, we predicted the amino acid sequences of 30 immunity-related genes from
the common marmoset and compared them with those from human and mouse. The domain
composition of each orthologous protein was analyzed by the SMART tool and was
found to be the same among the three species. A BLAST search revealed that the
common marmoset and human proteins were 86% identical on average, whereas the
conservation between the common marmoset and mouse or between the human and mouse
was only 60%. This indicates that the common marmoset and human proteins are
closely related and are similarly divergent from the mouse. We divided the 30
proteins into two categories based on the degree of conservation between the
common marmoset and mouse amino acid sequences. One group included 19 proteins
and had a relatively high level of conservation (68% identical), whereas the
other 11 proteins were less conserved (45% identical). This suggests that these
immunity-related genes do not evolve at a uniform rate. Interestingly, however,
ligand/receptor pairs such as interleukin-6 and interleukin-6 receptor appear to 
have evolved simultaneously.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.215.167 
PMID: 18577846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2262. J Neurosci Methods. 2008 Jul 30;172(2):201-14. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2008.04.029. Epub 2008 May 16.

Chronic multi-electrode neural recording in free-roaming monkeys.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
seliades@jhu.edu

Many behaviors of interest to neurophysiologists are difficult to study under
laboratory conditions because such behaviors are often inhibited when an animal
is restrained and socially isolated. Even under the best conditions, such
behaviors may be sparse enough as to require long duration neural recordings or
simultaneous recording of multiple neurons to gather a sufficient amount of data 
for analysis. We have developed a preparation for chronic, multi-electrode
recordings in the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys, small primates, as well as
techniques for neurophysiological recordings when the animals are free-roaming
while singly caged in the environment of the monkey colony. In this report, we
describe our solutions to overcome the problems associated with chronic
recordings in free-roaming animals, where three-dimensional movements present
particular challenges.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2008.04.029 
PMCID: PMC2553366
PMID: 18572250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

