

2262. J Neurosci Methods. 2008 Jul 30;172(2):201-14. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2008.04.029. Epub 2008 May 16.

Chronic multi-electrode neural recording in free-roaming monkeys.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
seliades@jhu.edu

Many behaviors of interest to neurophysiologists are difficult to study under
laboratory conditions because such behaviors are often inhibited when an animal
is restrained and socially isolated. Even under the best conditions, such
behaviors may be sparse enough as to require long duration neural recordings or
simultaneous recording of multiple neurons to gather a sufficient amount of data 
for analysis. We have developed a preparation for chronic, multi-electrode
recordings in the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys, small primates, as well as
techniques for neurophysiological recordings when the animals are free-roaming
while singly caged in the environment of the monkey colony. In this report, we
describe our solutions to overcome the problems associated with chronic
recordings in free-roaming animals, where three-dimensional movements present
particular challenges.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2008.04.029 
PMCID: PMC2553366
PMID: 18572250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2263. Eur J Pharmacol. 2008 Jul 28;589(1-3):8-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2008.04.025.
Epub 2008 Apr 16.

Aspirin induces lytic cytotoxicity in Epstein-Barr virus-positive cells.

Liu SF(1), Wang H, Li ZJ, Deng XY, Xiang H, Tao YG, Li W, Tang M, Cao Y.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Institute, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South
University, Changsha, Hunan, PR China.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection in tumor cells is generally restricted to the 
latent forms of viral infection. Switching the latent form of viral infection
into the lytic form may induce tumor cell death. High levels of nuclear factor
(NF)-kappaB can inhibit EBV lytic replication, and aspirin has the ability to
inhibit NF-kappaB activity. The aims of the current study were to determine the
effects of aspirin on inducing EBV lytic infection, and thus to reveal the
possibility of targeting EBV-positive cancer cells by aspirin. Our results showed
that aspirin depleted NF-kappaB (p65) in the nucleus and reactivated EBV into
lytic replication. Cells exhibited decreased viability in a dose- and
time-dependent manner when incubated with aspirin. When ganciclovir was used in
combination with aspirin to treat EBV-positive B95.8 cells and Raji cells, the
cytotoxic effect of aspirin was amplified. We demonstrated that aspirin reduced
the viability of EBV-positive B lymphocytes due to its ability to induce EBV
lytic replication.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2008.04.025 
PMID: 18571159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

