

2265. Am J Primatol. 2008 Sep;70(9):906-10. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20581.

Polymorphic microsatellite loci for the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
designed using a cost- and time-efficient method.

Raveendran M(1), Tardif S, Ross CN, Austad SN, Harris RA, Milosavljevic A, Rogers
J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San
Antonio, Texas 78227, USA. mraveend@sfbrgenetics.org

We describe a cost- and time-efficient method for designing new microsatellite
markers in any species with substantial genomic DNA sequence data available.
Using this technique, we report 14 new polymorphic dinucleotide microsatellite
loci isolated from the common marmoset. The relative yield of new polymorphisms
was higher with less labor than described in previous marmoset studies. Of 20
loci initially evaluated, 14 were polymorphic and amplified reliably (70% success
rate). The number of alleles ranged from 3 to 9 with heterozygosity varying from 
0.48 to 0.83.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20581 
PMCID: PMC2799112
PMID: 18561252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2266. BMC Bioinformatics. 2008 Jun 13;9:278. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-9-278.

Scipio: using protein sequences to determine the precise exon/intron structures
of genes and their orthologs in closely related species.

Keller O(1), Odronitz F, Stanke M, Kollmar M, Waack S.

Author information: 
(1)Universität Göttingen, Institut für Informatik, Lotzestr. 16-18, 37083
Göttingen, Germany. keller@cs.uni-goettingen.de

BACKGROUND: For many types of analyses, data about gene structure and locations
of non-coding regions of genes are required. Although a vast amount of genomic
sequence data is available, precise annotation of genes is lacking behind.
Finding the corresponding gene of a given protein sequence by means of
conventional tools is error prone, and cannot be completed without manual
inspection, which is time consuming and requires considerable experience.
RESULTS: Scipio is a tool based on the alignment program BLAT to determine the
precise gene structure given a protein sequence and a genome sequence. It
identifies intron-exon borders and splice sites and is able to cope with
sequencing errors and genes spanning several contigs in genomes that have not yet
been assembled to supercontigs or chromosomes. Instead of producing a set of hits
with varying confidence, Scipio gives the user a coherent summary of locations on
the genome that code for the query protein. The output contains information about
discrepancies that may result from sequencing errors. Scipio has also
successfully been used to find homologous genes in closely related species.
Scipio was tested with 979 protein queries against 16 arthropod genomes (intra
species search). For cross-species annotation, Scipio was used to annotate 40
genes from Homo sapiens in the primates Pongo pygmaeus abelii and Callithrix
jacchus. The prediction quality of Scipio was tested in a comparative study
against that of BLAT and the well established program Exonerate.
CONCLUSION: Scipio is able to precisely map a protein query onto a genome. Even
in cases when there are many sequencing errors, or when incomplete genome
assemblies lead to hits that stretch across multiple target sequences, it very
often provides the user with the correct determination of intron-exon borders and
splice sites, showing an improved prediction accuracy compared to BLAT and
Exonerate. Apart from being able to find genes in the genome that encode the
query protein, Scipio can also be used to annotate genes in closely related
species.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-9-278 
PMCID: PMC2442105
PMID: 18554390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

