

2266. BMC Bioinformatics. 2008 Jun 13;9:278. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-9-278.

Scipio: using protein sequences to determine the precise exon/intron structures
of genes and their orthologs in closely related species.

Keller O(1), Odronitz F, Stanke M, Kollmar M, Waack S.

Author information: 
(1)Universität Göttingen, Institut für Informatik, Lotzestr. 16-18, 37083
Göttingen, Germany. keller@cs.uni-goettingen.de

BACKGROUND: For many types of analyses, data about gene structure and locations
of non-coding regions of genes are required. Although a vast amount of genomic
sequence data is available, precise annotation of genes is lacking behind.
Finding the corresponding gene of a given protein sequence by means of
conventional tools is error prone, and cannot be completed without manual
inspection, which is time consuming and requires considerable experience.
RESULTS: Scipio is a tool based on the alignment program BLAT to determine the
precise gene structure given a protein sequence and a genome sequence. It
identifies intron-exon borders and splice sites and is able to cope with
sequencing errors and genes spanning several contigs in genomes that have not yet
been assembled to supercontigs or chromosomes. Instead of producing a set of hits
with varying confidence, Scipio gives the user a coherent summary of locations on
the genome that code for the query protein. The output contains information about
discrepancies that may result from sequencing errors. Scipio has also
successfully been used to find homologous genes in closely related species.
Scipio was tested with 979 protein queries against 16 arthropod genomes (intra
species search). For cross-species annotation, Scipio was used to annotate 40
genes from Homo sapiens in the primates Pongo pygmaeus abelii and Callithrix
jacchus. The prediction quality of Scipio was tested in a comparative study
against that of BLAT and the well established program Exonerate.
CONCLUSION: Scipio is able to precisely map a protein query onto a genome. Even
in cases when there are many sequencing errors, or when incomplete genome
assemblies lead to hits that stretch across multiple target sequences, it very
often provides the user with the correct determination of intron-exon borders and
splice sites, showing an improved prediction accuracy compared to BLAT and
Exonerate. Apart from being able to find genes in the genome that encode the
query protein, Scipio can also be used to annotate genes in closely related
species.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-9-278 
PMCID: PMC2442105
PMID: 18554390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2267. Virus Res. 2008 Sep;136(1-2):118-23. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2008.04.026. Epub
2008 Jun 11.

Effect of siRNA mediated suppression of signaling lymphocyte activation molecule 
on replication of peste des petits ruminants virus in vitro.

Pawar RM(1), Raj GD, Kumar TM, Raja A, Balachandran C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Biotechnology, Madras Veterinary College, Tamil Nadu
Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Chennai 600051, India.

Signaling lymphocyte activation molecule (SLAM) expression was inhibited in B95a 
cell line using siRNA and the effect of SLAM inhibition on peste des petits
ruminants virus (PPRV) replication and infectivity titre was studied. SLAM
suppression was assessed using real-time PCR and flow cytometry to confirm
suppression at the m-RNA and protein levels, respectively. Three chemically
synthesized siRNAs were transfected individually using oligofectamine into B95a
cell line. This resulted in SLAM suppression from 48 to 454-folds, in comparison 
to the untransfected B95a cell line. When the SLAM suppressed B95a cell line was 
infected with PPRV, replication was reduced by 12-143-folds and virus titre was
reduced from log10 1.09 to 2.28. siRNA 3 showed the most potent inhibition of
SLAM expression both at m-RNA and protein levels. This also caused the maximum
reduction of virus replication and virus titre. A 100-fold reduction in PPRV
titres was seen in anti-SLAM antibody neutralized B95a cell line. This further
confirms that SLAM is one of the (co) receptors for PPRV. However, the presence
of other putative virus receptor(s) is/are not ruled out.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2008.04.026 
PMCID: PMC7127705
PMID: 18550191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

