

2268. J Med Primatol. 2008 Jun;37(3):154-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2007.00271.x.

Barbiturate euthanasia solution-induced tissue artifact in nonhuman primates.

Grieves JL(1), Dick EJ Jr, Schlabritz-Loutsevich NE, Butler SD, Leland MM, Price 
SE, Schmidt CR, Nathanielsz PW, Hubbard GB.

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Resources, Southwest National Primate Research Center, Southwest
Foundation for Biomedical Research, San Antonio, TX 76227-5301, USA.

BACKGROUND: Barbiturate euthanasia solutions are a humane and approved means of
euthanasia. Overdosing causes significant tissue damage in a variety of
laboratory animals.
METHODS: One hundred seventeen non-human primates (NHP) representing 7 species
including 12 fetuses euthanized for humane and research reasons by various
vascular routes with Euthasol, Sodium Pentobarbital, Fatal Plus, Beuthanasia D,
or Euthanasia 5 were evaluated for euthanasia-induced tissue damage. Lungs and
livers were histologically graded for hemolysis, vascular damage, edema, and
necrosis. Severity of tissue damage was analyzed for differences on the basis of 
agent, age, sex, dose, and injection route.
RESULTS: Severity of tissue damage was directly related to dose and the
intracardiac injection route, but did not differ by species, sex, and agent used.
CONCLUSIONS: When the recommended dose of agent was used, tissue damage was
generally reduced, minimal, or undetectable. Barbiturate-induced artifacts in
NHPs are essentially the same as in other laboratory species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2007.00271.x 
PMID: 18547259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2269. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2008 Jun;78(6):936-45.

Development of a model of hookworm infection exhibiting salient characteristics
of human infection.

Griffiths GD(1), Brown AP, Hooi DS, Pearce PC, Hornby RJ, Scott L, Pritchard DI.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Department, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory,
Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.

Patent and pathologic infections of the human hookworm Necator americanus were
established in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). In a pilot study, a
laboratory strain of N. americanus was compared with a fresh field isolate.
Pathology was more severe in animals infected with a fresh isolate. In all
animals, infection was associated with increased total plasma IgE and production 
of IgG specific to adult worm excretory/secretory (ES) products. Histamine was
released by basophils in response to IgE, ES products, and a recombinant hookworm
allergen, calreticulin. The pilot study indicated the potential of this animal
model of hookworm infection and led us to investigate the consequences of
infecting a further cohort with the fresh field isolate. This second study
confirmed our initial findings, that it is possible to investigate the human
hookworm N. americanus in a model exhibiting many of the characteristics of the
immunology of hookworm infection in its definitive host.


PMID: 18541773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

