

227. Cells. 2020 Nov 5;9(11). pii: E2422. doi: 10.3390/cells9112422.

Controlling the Switch from Neurogenesis to Pluripotency during Marmoset Monkey
Somatic Cell Reprogramming with Self-Replicating mRNAs and Small Molecules.

Petkov S(1)(2), Dressel R(2)(3), Rodriguez-Polo I(1)(2), Behr R(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, GmbH, Leibniz Institute
for Primate Research, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(2)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), partner site Göttingen,
37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Institute for Cellular and Molecular Immunology, University Medical Center
Göttingen, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) hold enormous potential for the
development of cell-based therapies; however, the safety and efficacy of
potential iPSC-based treatments need to be verified in relevant animal disease
models before their application in the clinic. Here, we report the derivation of 
iPSCs from common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) using self-replicating
mRNA vectors based on the Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus (VEE-mRNAs). By
transfection of marmoset fibroblasts with VEE-mRNAs carrying the human OCT4,
KLF4, SOX2, and c-MYC and culture in the presence of small molecule inhibitors
CHIR99021 and SB431542, we first established intermediate primary colonies with
neural progenitor-like properties. In the second reprogramming step, we converted
these colonies into transgene-free pluripotent stem cells by further culturing
them with customized marmoset iPSC medium in feeder-free conditions. Our
experiments revealed a novel paradigm for flexible reprogramming of somatic
cells, where primary colonies obtained by a single VEE-mRNA transfection can be
directed either toward the neural lineage or further reprogrammed to
pluripotency. These results (1) will further enhance the role of the common
marmoset as animal disease model for preclinical testing of iPSC-based therapies 
and (2) establish an in vitro system to experimentally address developmental
signal transduction pathways in primates.

DOI: 10.3390/cells9112422 
PMCID: PMC7694496
PMID: 33167468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Brain Res. 2021 Jan 15;1751:147198. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2020.147198. Epub
2020 Nov 6.

Social buffering of cortisol release and tympanic temperature asymmetries during 
novelty and isolation stress in marmoset monkeys.

Pereira LC(1), Barros M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia 70910-900, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia 70910-900, Brazil; Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil. Electronic address: mbarros@unb.br.

Novel environments induce a conflicting emotional approach-withdrawal state that 
triggers stress-related reactions. Social support through the presence of a
highly familiar conspecific buffers the individual against such challenges.
Although aversive events seem to be predominantly processed by the right
hemisphere, this is still under debate and little is known about functional
cerebral asymmetries in nonhuman primates during novelty stress, isolation and
social buffering. Here we isolated adult marmoset monkeys in a new open-field
arena or in their familiar home-cages to establish hemisphere activity and
whether the pairmate's presence buffers the response. Monkeys socially isolated
in either location had higher circulating cortisol levels than non-isolated
marmosets, but different hemisphere activity patterns indicated by changes in
baseline tympanic membrane temperatures (TMT). The bilateral increase in the
monkeys that were isolated in the unfamiliar location may reflect an
approach-withdrawal conflict. The left-sided increase in the home-cage isolation 
group was negatively related to cortisol release, this being potentially
associated with a more proactive/approach-prone temperament. Interestingly, TMT
and cortisol were unaltered when the pairmate was present. Thus, positive social 
interaction reduces the perceived intensity of the threat, alters hemisphere
asymmetries and blocks the hormonal response to novelty stress, consistent with a
buffering effect.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2020.147198 
PMID: 33166510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

