

2270. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 Nov;49(11):5168-74. doi: 10.1167/iovs.07-1340.
Epub 2008 Jun 6.

A low-cost and simple imaging technique of the anterior and posterior segments:
eye fundus, ciliary bodies, iridocorneal angle.

Guyomard JL(1), Rosolen SG, Paques M, Delyfer MN, Simonutti M, Tessier Y, Sahel
JA, Legargasson JF, Picaud S.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, Institut de la Vision, Paris, France.

PURPOSE: The authors recently used topical endoscopy to image the mouse eye
fundus. Here, they widened the field of application for this ophthalmologic tool,
imaging both the posterior and the anterior eye segments in larger animals
commonly encountered in research laboratories and veterinary clinics.
METHODS: Pupils were dilated, and local anesthetic and gel were applied to the
animal cornea. The endoscopic probe was placed in contact with the cornea of
conscious rats, sedated cats and dogs, anesthetized sheep, and nonhuman primates.
RESULTS: High-resolution digital images of the eye fundus were obtained in all
investigated animals using the endoscopic probe along the eye axis. Arteriovenous
filling time was monitored with fluorescein angiography in pigmented rats. The
retinal periphery and ciliary bodies could be visualized with the probe placed at
an oblique angle. The probe was inclined further to observe the iridocorneal
angle such that the pectinate ligaments could be seen at high resolution in cats.
The authors used the probe on eyes with retinal detachment, luxation of a
cataractous lens, and pigment infiltration in the iridocorneal angle,
demonstrating its potential use in eye diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: This topical endoscopic technique provides a unique tool for single 
eye examinations. The authors obtained a circular view of the anterior
(iridocorneal angle) and the posterior (fundus) eye segments from all animal
species studied. This technique is inexpensive and easy to use. It can be easily 
moved to the eye of the patient who cannot move to stand in front of classic
apparatus, offering new opportunities in ophthalmology.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.07-1340 
PMID: 18539931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2271. J Neurophysiol. 2008 Aug;100(2):888-906. doi: 10.1152/jn.00884.2007. Epub 2008
Jun 4.

Neural response properties of primary, rostral, and rostrotemporal core fields in
the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys.

Bendor D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University, 720 Rutland Avenue, Traylor 410, Baltimore, MD
21205, USA.

The core region of primate auditory cortex contains a primary and two
primary-like fields (AI, primary auditory cortex; R, rostral field; RT,
rostrotemporal field). Although it is reasonable to assume that multiple core
fields provide an advantage for auditory processing over a single primary field, 
the differential roles these fields play and whether they form a functional
pathway collectively such as for the processing of spectral or temporal
information are unknown. In this report we compare the response properties of
neurons in the three core fields to pure tones and sinusoidally amplitude
modulated tones in awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). The main
observations are as follows. (1) All three fields are responsive to spectrally
narrowband sounds and are tonotopically organized. (2) Field AI responds more
strongly to pure tones than fields R and RT. (3) Field RT neurons have lower best
sound levels than those of neurons in fields AI and R. In addition, rate-level
functions in field RT are more commonly nonmonotonic than in fields AI and R. (4)
Neurons in fields RT and R have longer minimum latencies than those of field AI
neurons. (5) Fields RT and R have poorer stimulus synchronization than that of
field AI to amplitude-modulated tones. (6) Between the three core fields the more
rostral regions (R and RT) have narrower firing-rate-based modulation transfer
functions than that of AI. This effect was seen only for the nonsynchronized
neurons. Synchronized neurons showed no such trend.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00884.2007 
PMCID: PMC2525707
PMID: 18525020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

