

2271. J Neurophysiol. 2008 Aug;100(2):888-906. doi: 10.1152/jn.00884.2007. Epub 2008
Jun 4.

Neural response properties of primary, rostral, and rostrotemporal core fields in
the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys.

Bendor D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University, 720 Rutland Avenue, Traylor 410, Baltimore, MD
21205, USA.

The core region of primate auditory cortex contains a primary and two
primary-like fields (AI, primary auditory cortex; R, rostral field; RT,
rostrotemporal field). Although it is reasonable to assume that multiple core
fields provide an advantage for auditory processing over a single primary field, 
the differential roles these fields play and whether they form a functional
pathway collectively such as for the processing of spectral or temporal
information are unknown. In this report we compare the response properties of
neurons in the three core fields to pure tones and sinusoidally amplitude
modulated tones in awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). The main
observations are as follows. (1) All three fields are responsive to spectrally
narrowband sounds and are tonotopically organized. (2) Field AI responds more
strongly to pure tones than fields R and RT. (3) Field RT neurons have lower best
sound levels than those of neurons in fields AI and R. In addition, rate-level
functions in field RT are more commonly nonmonotonic than in fields AI and R. (4)
Neurons in fields RT and R have longer minimum latencies than those of field AI
neurons. (5) Fields RT and R have poorer stimulus synchronization than that of
field AI to amplitude-modulated tones. (6) Between the three core fields the more
rostral regions (R and RT) have narrower firing-rate-based modulation transfer
functions than that of AI. This effect was seen only for the nonsynchronized
neurons. Synchronized neurons showed no such trend.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00884.2007 
PMCID: PMC2525707
PMID: 18525020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2272. Interdiscip Top Gerontol. 2008;36:29-48. doi: 10.1159/000137678.

Reproduction and aging in marmosets and tamarins.

Tardif SD(1), Araujo A, Arruda MF, French JA, Sousa MB, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX 78245, USA.
tardif@uthscsa.edu

This chapter presents data on the relations between reproduction and aging in
both captive and free-ranging marmosets and tamarins. The relationship is
examined from two perspectives. First, the relation of age to physiological
impairments in reproductive function is explored. Callitrichid females, in common
with many other nonhuman primates, begin to display anovulation associated with
follicular depletion at a point relatively close to the maximum life span. Unlike
Old World primates, however, they continued to display significant steroidogenic 
activity in the ovary. There are age effects on some reproductive output
variables, such as litter size and inter-birth interval, though the effects are
often small. Like other mammals, male marmosets display a change in levels of
androgens with age, although the magnitude of the decrease is not large and they 
actually mount an elevated response to GnRH challenge as they age. We also
examined whether age affects either the establishment or maintenance of a
breeding position, the factors most important in determining lifetime
reproductive success. Infant mortality did increase with increasing parturitions,
suggesting that there may have been aging or parturition effects on lactation.
Generally, marmoset females were well past the age of sexual maturity at the
beginning of the tenure and approaching 8-9 years at the end of it. Reproductive 
decline did not appear to be a gradual process, but a rather abrupt one, often
causing the dismantling of the group. There are potentially interesting relations
among maternal age, mass and declining reproductive performance, given the known 
importance of mass as a determinant of reproductive success in female
callitrichids.

DOI: 10.1159/000137678 
PMID: 18523371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

