

2272. Interdiscip Top Gerontol. 2008;36:29-48. doi: 10.1159/000137678.

Reproduction and aging in marmosets and tamarins.

Tardif SD(1), Araujo A, Arruda MF, French JA, Sousa MB, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX 78245, USA.
tardif@uthscsa.edu

This chapter presents data on the relations between reproduction and aging in
both captive and free-ranging marmosets and tamarins. The relationship is
examined from two perspectives. First, the relation of age to physiological
impairments in reproductive function is explored. Callitrichid females, in common
with many other nonhuman primates, begin to display anovulation associated with
follicular depletion at a point relatively close to the maximum life span. Unlike
Old World primates, however, they continued to display significant steroidogenic 
activity in the ovary. There are age effects on some reproductive output
variables, such as litter size and inter-birth interval, though the effects are
often small. Like other mammals, male marmosets display a change in levels of
androgens with age, although the magnitude of the decrease is not large and they 
actually mount an elevated response to GnRH challenge as they age. We also
examined whether age affects either the establishment or maintenance of a
breeding position, the factors most important in determining lifetime
reproductive success. Infant mortality did increase with increasing parturitions,
suggesting that there may have been aging or parturition effects on lactation.
Generally, marmoset females were well past the age of sexual maturity at the
beginning of the tenure and approaching 8-9 years at the end of it. Reproductive 
decline did not appear to be a gradual process, but a rather abrupt one, often
causing the dismantling of the group. There are potentially interesting relations
among maternal age, mass and declining reproductive performance, given the known 
importance of mass as a determinant of reproductive success in female
callitrichids.

DOI: 10.1159/000137678 
PMID: 18523371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2273. Vaccine. 2008 Jul 4;26(29-30):3711-8. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.04.060. Epub
2008 May 15.

Evaluation of the potential of synthetic peptides of 80 kDa human sperm antigen
(80 kDaHSA) for the development of contraceptive vaccine for male.

Khobarekar BG(1), Vernekar V, Raghavan V, Kamada M, Maegawa M, Bandivdekar AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, National Institute for Research in Reproductive
Health (ICMR), J M Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.
