

2273. Vaccine. 2008 Jul 4;26(29-30):3711-8. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.04.060. Epub
2008 May 15.

Evaluation of the potential of synthetic peptides of 80 kDa human sperm antigen
(80 kDaHSA) for the development of contraceptive vaccine for male.

Khobarekar BG(1), Vernekar V, Raghavan V, Kamada M, Maegawa M, Bandivdekar AH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, National Institute for Research in Reproductive
Health (ICMR), J M Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.

80 kDaHSA has been demonstrated to be responsible for inducing immunoinfertility.
Synthetic peptides NT, 1, 2 and 4 of 80 kDaHSA are immunogenic and
immunobiologically mimic the native protein. Peptides 1 and NT being highly
immunogenic their potential for contraceptive vaccine development was evaluated. 
Active immunization of male rabbits with peptide-1 and -NT induced reversible
infertility in 100% and 60% of animals, respectively and subsequently active
immunization of non-human primate model, male marmosets with peptide-1 induced
reversible infertility in six out of seven high antibody titer animals. The
present study suggests the potential of peptide-1 of 80 kDaHSA for the
development of contraceptive vaccine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.04.060 
PMID: 18514978  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2274. Front Biosci. 2008 May 1;13:3742-59.

Spatial integration and its moderation by attention and acetylcholine.

Roberts MJ(1), Thiele A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon
Tyne, NE2 4HH, United Kingdom.

Attention is often regarded as a mechanism by which attended objects become
perceptually more salient, akin to increasing their contrast. We demonstrate by
means of human psychophysics that attention is better described as a mechanism
that reduces contextual integration, thereby ensuring that task irrelevant
information is prevented from influencing the processing of task relevant
information. To investigate possible neuronal bases of this phenomenon we studied
the effects of attention on spatial integration in V1 of the macaque monkey. In
line with our psychophysical results, attention directed to parafoveal locations 
reduced spatial integration by reducing the summation area of V1 neurons.
Additionally we measured length tuning in V1 in the presence and absence of
externally applied acetylcholine in V1 of the marmoset monkey. The effects of
acetylcholine application and attention were largely similar. Acetylcholine
reduced spatial integration by reducing the neuron's summation area. These data
demonstrate that attention can alter perceptual and neuronal spatial integration,
and that acetylcholine might contribute to task dependent receptive field
dynamics.

DOI: 10.2741/2963 
PMID: 18508469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

