

2279. J Virol. 2008 Jul;82(14):7167-79. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02664-07. Epub 2008 May 14.

Characterization of the New World monkey homologues of human poliovirus receptor 
CD155.

Khan S(1), Peng X, Yin J, Zhang P, Wimmer E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Stony Brook University,
Stony Brook, NY 11794-5222, USA.

In contrast to Old World monkeys, most New World monkeys (NWMs) are not
susceptible to poliovirus (PV), regardless of the route of infection. We have
investigated the molecular basis of restricted PV pathogenesis of NWMs with two
kidney cell lines of NWMs, TMX (tamarin) and NZP-60 (marmoset), and characterized
their PV receptor homologues. TMX cells were susceptible to infection by PV1
(Mahoney) and PV3 (Leon) but not by PV2 (Lansing). Binding studies to TMX cells
indicated that the formation of PV/receptor complexes increased when measured
first at 4 degrees C and then at 25 degrees C, whereas PV2 did not significantly 
bind to TMX cells at either temperature. On the other hand, NZP-60 cells were not
susceptible to infection by any of the PV serotypes. However, a low amount of PV1
bound to NZP-60 cells at 4 degrees C, but there was no increase of binding at 25 
degrees C. In contrast, both NWM cell lines supported genome replication and
virion formation when transfected with viral RNAs of either serotype, an
observation indicating that infection was blocked in receptor-virus interaction. 
To overcome the receptor block, we substituted 3 amino acids in the marmoset
receptor (nCD155), H80Q, N85S, and P87S, found in the human PV receptor, hCD155. 
Cells expressing the mutant receptor (L-nCD155mt) were now susceptible to
infection with PV1, which correlated with an increase in PV1-bound receptor
complexes from 4 degrees C to 25 degrees C. L-nCD155mt cells were, however, still
resistant to PV2 and PV3. These data show that an increase in the formation of
PV/receptor complexes, when measured at 4 degrees C and at 25 degrees C,
correlates with and is an indicator of successful infection at 37 degrees C,
suggesting that the complex formed at 25 degrees C may be an intermediate in PV
uptake.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02664-07 
PMCID: PMC2446954
PMID: 18480448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2280. Theriogenology. 2008 Jul 1;70(1):115-20. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2008.03.011. Epub 2008 May 13.

Validation of non-fluorescent methods to reliably detect acrosomal and plasma
membrane integrity of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) sperm.

Valle RR(1), Valle CM, Nichi M, Muniz JA, Nayudu PL, Guimarães MA.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Centre (DPZ), Reproductive Biology Department, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany. rdrvalle@hotmail.com

Simple, rapid and stable sperm evaluation methods which have been optimized for
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) are critical for studies involving
collection and evaluation of sperm in the field. This is particularly important
for new species groups such as Callitrichidae where the sperm have been little
studied. Of this family, C. jacchus is the best known, and has been chosen as a
model species for other members of the genus Callithrix. The fundamental
evaluation parameters for sperm of any species are viability and acrosomal
status. Semen samples were collected by penile vibratory stimulation. To evaluate
sperm plasma membrane integrity, Eosin-Nigrosin was tested here for the common
marmoset sperm to be used under field conditions. Further, a non-fluorescent
stain for acrosome, the "Simple" stain, developed for domestic and wild cats, was
tested on common marmoset sperm. This was compared with a fluorescent staining,
Fluorescein isothiocyanate-Pisum sativum agglutinin (FITC-PSA), routinely used
and validated for common marmoset at the German Primate Centre to evaluate
acrosomal integrity. Results obtained with the "Simple" stain showed a marked
differentiation between sperm with intact and non-intact acrosome both with and
without ionophore treatment and closely correlated with results obtained with
FITC-PSA. Temperature had no effect on the results with the "Simple" stain and
the complete processing is simple enough to be carried out under field
conditions. These findings indicated that the "Simple" stain and Eosin-Nigrosin
provide rapid and accurate results for C. jacchus sperm and that those methods
can be reliably used as field tools for sperm evaluation for this species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2008.03.011 
PMID: 18479742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

