

2281. Ai Zheng. 2008 May;27(5):455-9.

[Proliferation cycle changes of Epstein-Barr virus in nasopharyngeal carcinoma
cell line CNE after infection].

[Article in Chinese]

He YW(1), Zeng J, Ou XL, Zhang G, Du J.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Microbiology, Biochemistry and Pharmacology, School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, 510080,
People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: The strategy of gene therapy on nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
(NPC) is determined by the characteristics of proliferation cycle of Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) in different histological types of NPC cells. This study was to
investigate the characteristics of proliferation cycle of EBV in NPC cell line
CNE2.
METHODS: CNE2 cells were co-cultivated with marmoset lymphocyte line B95-8, which
was EBV-positive. Then B95-8 cells were removed by cytotoxic test of complement
activation. The initial infection state of EBV in CNE2 cells was analyzed by
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Southern
hybridization.
RESULTS: CNE2 cells were infected with EBV by cell-to-cell contacting. The
transcription of BZLF1, the symbol gene for EBV lytic phase, maintained 12 days
on average. The transcription of EBV-encoded small RNA (EBER), the symbol gene
for EBV infectious phase, maintained 22 days on average.
CONCLUSIONS: After invading CNE2 cells, most EBV initially might be at lytic
phase, then switch to the relatively stable latent phase, and finally be lost due
to cell culture and passage.


PMID: 18479592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2282. Horm Behav. 2008 Aug;54(2):302-11. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2008.03.004. Epub 2008
Mar 25.

Different ovarian responses to potential mates underlie species-specific breeding
strategies in common marmoset and Goeldi's monkey.

Mattle FM(1), Pryce CR, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland. frama@aim.uzh.ch

Callitrichids are cooperative breeders, characterized by obligate twinning,
extensive paternal care, and monopolization of reproduction by the dominant
female. This is the case in the common marmoset, and in common marmoset groups of
more than one adult female, subordinate females are typically acyclic consistent 
with infertility. However, one callitrichid, Goeldi's monkey, gives birth to
singletons and exhibits low paternal care. Given these reproductive traits of
Goeldi's monkey, we hypothesized that there would not be suppression of ovarian
activity. To test this hypothesis, we applied non-invasive endocrine methods in a
step-wise experiment with laboratory groups of both species. In each species, six
pairs of sisters were studied alone, in visual contact with an unrelated male and
in a polygynous trio with the male, and urine samples were collected for
determination of oestrogen titres reflecting ovarian activity. Common marmoset
sister pairs exhibited a marked difference in social status: during the study 5
of 6 dominant females conceived but only 1 of 6 subordinate females; the
remaining 5 subordinates were acyclic at the end of the study, and instances of
ovulation typically resulted in aggression. Goeldi's monkey sister pairs showed
no status differences: in all pairs, however, both sisters exhibited a temporary 
cessation of ovarian cyclicity on trio formation, followed by ovulation and
conception. We conclude that these marked differences in ovarian responses
reflect the differences in inter-female competition for paternal caregiving
resources. In common marmosets with high inter-female competition, suppression of
ovulation functions to reduce aggression received by subordinate females; in
Goeldi's monkey with low competition, temporary cessation of ovulation could
facilitate female choice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2008.03.004 
PMID: 18471815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

