

2282. Horm Behav. 2008 Aug;54(2):302-11. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2008.03.004. Epub 2008
Mar 25.

Different ovarian responses to potential mates underlie species-specific breeding
strategies in common marmoset and Goeldi's monkey.

Mattle FM(1), Pryce CR, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland. frama@aim.uzh.ch

Callitrichids are cooperative breeders, characterized by obligate twinning,
extensive paternal care, and monopolization of reproduction by the dominant
female. This is the case in the common marmoset, and in common marmoset groups of
more than one adult female, subordinate females are typically acyclic consistent 
with infertility. However, one callitrichid, Goeldi's monkey, gives birth to
singletons and exhibits low paternal care. Given these reproductive traits of
Goeldi's monkey, we hypothesized that there would not be suppression of ovarian
activity. To test this hypothesis, we applied non-invasive endocrine methods in a
step-wise experiment with laboratory groups of both species. In each species, six
pairs of sisters were studied alone, in visual contact with an unrelated male and
in a polygynous trio with the male, and urine samples were collected for
determination of oestrogen titres reflecting ovarian activity. Common marmoset
sister pairs exhibited a marked difference in social status: during the study 5
of 6 dominant females conceived but only 1 of 6 subordinate females; the
remaining 5 subordinates were acyclic at the end of the study, and instances of
ovulation typically resulted in aggression. Goeldi's monkey sister pairs showed
no status differences: in all pairs, however, both sisters exhibited a temporary 
cessation of ovarian cyclicity on trio formation, followed by ovulation and
conception. We conclude that these marked differences in ovarian responses
reflect the differences in inter-female competition for paternal caregiving
resources. In common marmosets with high inter-female competition, suppression of
ovulation functions to reduce aggression received by subordinate females; in
Goeldi's monkey with low competition, temporary cessation of ovulation could
facilitate female choice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2008.03.004 
PMID: 18471815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2283. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2008 Sep;137(1):60-8. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20846.

Placental efficiency and intrauterine resource allocation strategies in the
common marmoset pregnancy.

Rutherford JN(1), Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Policy Research and the Department of Anthropology, Northwestern
University, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA. julienne-rutherford@northwestern.edu

Mothers and fetuses are expected to be in some degree of conflict over the
allocation of maternal resources to fetal growth in the intrauterine environment.
Variation in placental structure and function may be one way a fetus can
communicate need and quality to its mother, potentially manipulating maternal
investment in its favor. Whereas common marmosets typically produce twin litters,
they regularly give birth to triplet litters in captivity. The addition of
another fetus is a potential drain on maternal resource availability and thus a
source of elevated conflict over resource allocation. Marmoset littermates share 
a single placental mass, so that differences in the ratio of fetal to placental
weight across litter categories suggest the presence of differential intrauterine
strategies of resource allocation. The fetal/placental weight ratio was
calculated for 26 marmoset pregnancies, representing both twin and triplet
litters, to test the hypothesis that triplet fetuses respond to intrauterine
conflict by soliciting placental overgrowth as a means of accessing maternal
resources. In fact, relative to fetal mass, the triplet marmoset placenta is
significantly undergrown, with individual triplets associated with less placental
mass than their twin counterparts, suggesting that the triplet placenta is
relatively more efficient in its support of fetal growth. There still may be an
important role for maternal-fetal conflict in the programming of placental
structure and function. Placental adaptations that solicit potential increases of
maternal investment may occur at the microscopic or metabolic level, and thus may
not be reflected in the size of the placenta as a whole.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20846 
PMID: 18470898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

