

2284. Anal Chem. 2008 Jun 1;80(11):4200-7. doi: 10.1021/ac800205s. Epub 2008 May 9.

Towards absolute quantification of therapeutic monoclonal antibody in serum by
LC-MS/MS using isotope-labeled antibody standard and protein cleavage isotope
dilution mass spectrometry.

Heudi O(1), Barteau S, Zimmer D, Schmidt J, Bill K, Lehmann N, Bauer C, Kretz O.

Author information: 
(1)DMPK/Bioanalytics, and Biotechnology Development, Novartis Pharma AG, CH-4002 
Basel, Switzerland. Olivier.heudi@novartis.com

Although LC-MS methods are increasingly used for the absolute quantification of
proteins, the lack of appropriate internal standard (IS) hinders the development 
of rapid and standardized analytical methods for both in vitro and in vivo
studies. Here, we have developed a novel method for the absolute quantification
of a therapeutic protein, which is monoclonal antibody (mAb). The method combines
liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and protein cleavage
isotope dilution mass spectrometry with the isotope-labeled mAb as IS. The latter
was identical to the analyzed mAb with the exception that each threonine contains
four (13)C atoms and one (15)N atom. Serum samples were spiked with IS prior to
the overnight trypsin digestion and subsequent sample cleanup. Sample extracts
were analyzed on a C18 ACE column (150 mm x 4.6 mm) using an LC gradient time of 
11 min. Endogenous mAb concentrations were determined by calculating the peak
height ratio of its signature peptide to the corresponding isotope-labeled
peptide. The linear dynamic range was established between 5.00 and 1000 microg/mL
mAb with accuracy and precision within +/-15% at all concentrations and below
+/-20% at the LLOQ (lower limit of quantification). The overall method recovery
in terms of mAb was 14%. The losses due to sample preparation (digestion and
purification) were 72% from which about 32% was due to the first step of the
method, the sample digestion. This huge loss during sample preparation strongly
emphasizes the necessity to employ an IS right from the beginning. Our method was
successfully applied to the mAb quantification in marmoset serum study samples,
and the precision obtained on duplicate samples was, in most cases, below 20%.
The comparison with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) showed higher
exposure in terms of AUC and Cmax with the LC-MS/MS method. Possible reasons for 
this discrepancy are discussed in this study. The results of this study indicate 
that our LC-MS/MS method is a simple, rapid, and precise approach for the
therapeutic mAb quantification to support preclinical and clinical studies.

DOI: 10.1021/ac800205s 
PMID: 18465883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2285. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 Jul 1;36(Web Server issue):W140-4. doi:
10.1093/nar/gkn253. Epub 2008 May 7.

OREST: the online resource for EST analysis.

Waegele B(1), Schmidt T, Mewes HW, Ruepp A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Bioinformatics and Systems Biology (MIPS), Helmholtz Zentrum
München - German Research Center for Environmental Health (GmbH), Ingolstädter
Landstrasse 1, D-85764 Neuherberg, Germany.
brigitte.waegele@helmholtz-muenchen.de

The generation of expressed sequence tag (EST) libraries offers an affordable
approach to investigate organisms, if no genome sequence is available. OREST
(http://mips.gsf.de/genre/proj/orest/index.html) is a server-based EST analysis
pipeline, which allows the rapid analysis of large amounts of ESTs or cDNAs from 
mammalia and fungi. In order to assign the ESTs to genes or proteins OREST maps
DNA sequences to reference datasets of gene products and in a second step to
complete genome sequences. Mapping against genome sequences recovers additional
13% of EST data, which otherwise would escape further analysis. To enable
functional analysis of the datasets, ESTs are functionally annotated using the
hierarchical FunCat annotation scheme as well as GO annotation terms. OREST also 
allows to predict the association of gene products and diseases by Morbid Map
(OMIM) classification. A statistical analysis of the results of the dataset is
possible with the included PROMPT software, which provides information about
enrichment and depletion of functional and disease annotation terms. OREST was
successfully applied for the identification and functional characterization of
more than 3000 EST sequences of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
as part of an international collaboration.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn253 
PMCID: PMC2447738
PMID: 18463135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

