

2285. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 Jul 1;36(Web Server issue):W140-4. doi:
10.1093/nar/gkn253. Epub 2008 May 7.

OREST: the online resource for EST analysis.

Waegele B(1), Schmidt T, Mewes HW, Ruepp A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Bioinformatics and Systems Biology (MIPS), Helmholtz Zentrum
München - German Research Center for Environmental Health (GmbH), Ingolstädter
Landstrasse 1, D-85764 Neuherberg, Germany.
brigitte.waegele@helmholtz-muenchen.de

The generation of expressed sequence tag (EST) libraries offers an affordable
approach to investigate organisms, if no genome sequence is available. OREST
(http://mips.gsf.de/genre/proj/orest/index.html) is a server-based EST analysis
pipeline, which allows the rapid analysis of large amounts of ESTs or cDNAs from 
mammalia and fungi. In order to assign the ESTs to genes or proteins OREST maps
DNA sequences to reference datasets of gene products and in a second step to
complete genome sequences. Mapping against genome sequences recovers additional
13% of EST data, which otherwise would escape further analysis. To enable
functional analysis of the datasets, ESTs are functionally annotated using the
hierarchical FunCat annotation scheme as well as GO annotation terms. OREST also 
allows to predict the association of gene products and diseases by Morbid Map
(OMIM) classification. A statistical analysis of the results of the dataset is
possible with the included PROMPT software, which provides information about
enrichment and depletion of functional and disease annotation terms. OREST was
successfully applied for the identification and functional characterization of
more than 3000 EST sequences of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
as part of an international collaboration.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn253 
PMCID: PMC2447738
PMID: 18463135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2286. FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol. 2008 Jul;53(2):183-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1574-695X.2008.00408.x. Epub 2008 May 6.

Seroprevalence study of Francisella tularensis among hunters in Germany.

Jenzora A(1), Jansen A, Ranisch H, Lierz M, Wichmann O, Grunow R.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Biological Safety, Robert Koch-Institut, Berlin, Germany.

In 2005 and 2006, Francisella tularensis unexpectedly reemerged in western
Germany, when several semi-free-living marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in a
research facility died from tularemia and a group of hare hunters became
infected. It is believed that hunters may have an elevated risk to be exposed to 
zoonotic pathogens, including F. tularensis. A previous cross-sectional study of 
the German population (n=6883) revealed a prevalence of 0.2%. Here, we
investigated 286 sera from individuals mainly hunting in districts with emerging 
tularemia cases (group 1) and 84 sera from a region currently not conspicuous for
tularemia (group 2). Methods included standard enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA), Western blot analysis and indirect immunofluorescence assay. We found
five out of the 286 hunters (1.7%; 95% CI 0.6-4.0%) in group 1 positive with
standard ELISA and Western blot, but none in the Berlin area (group 2; 95% CI
0-0.04%). Group 1 showed an elevated risk for hunters to be seropositive for F.
tularensis compared with the cross-sectional study (OR=7.7; P<0.001). This
indicates a higher prevalence for tularemia in hunters of a suspected endemic
region of Germany.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-695X.2008.00408.x 
PMID: 18462387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

