

2286. FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol. 2008 Jul;53(2):183-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1574-695X.2008.00408.x. Epub 2008 May 6.

Seroprevalence study of Francisella tularensis among hunters in Germany.

Jenzora A(1), Jansen A, Ranisch H, Lierz M, Wichmann O, Grunow R.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Biological Safety, Robert Koch-Institut, Berlin, Germany.

In 2005 and 2006, Francisella tularensis unexpectedly reemerged in western
Germany, when several semi-free-living marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in a
research facility died from tularemia and a group of hare hunters became
infected. It is believed that hunters may have an elevated risk to be exposed to 
zoonotic pathogens, including F. tularensis. A previous cross-sectional study of 
the German population (n=6883) revealed a prevalence of 0.2%. Here, we
investigated 286 sera from individuals mainly hunting in districts with emerging 
tularemia cases (group 1) and 84 sera from a region currently not conspicuous for
tularemia (group 2). Methods included standard enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA), Western blot analysis and indirect immunofluorescence assay. We found
five out of the 286 hunters (1.7%; 95% CI 0.6-4.0%) in group 1 positive with
standard ELISA and Western blot, but none in the Berlin area (group 2; 95% CI
0-0.04%). Group 1 showed an elevated risk for hunters to be seropositive for F.
tularensis compared with the cross-sectional study (OR=7.7; P<0.001). This
indicates a higher prevalence for tularemia in hunters of a suspected endemic
region of Germany.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-695X.2008.00408.x 
PMID: 18462387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2287. Int J Exp Pathol. 2008 Jun;89(3):171-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00581.x.

Experimental respiratory anthrax infection in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Lever MS(1), Stagg AJ, Nelson M, Pearce P, Stevens DJ, Scott EA, Simpson AJ,
Fulop MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK. mslever@dstl.gov.uk

Inhalational anthrax is a rare but potentially fatal infection in man. The common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was evaluated as a small non-human primate (NHP)
model of inhalational anthrax infection, as an alternative to larger NHP species.
The marmoset was found to be susceptible to inhalational exposure to Bacillus
anthracis Ames strain. The pathophysiology of infection following inhalational
exposure was similar to that previously reported in the rhesus and cynomolgus
macaque and humans. The calculated LD(50) for B. anthracis Ames strain in the
marmoset was 1.47 x 10(3) colony-forming units, compared with a published LD(50) 
of 5.5 x 10(4) spores in the rhesus macaque and 4.13 x 10(3) spores in the
cynomolgus macaque. This suggests that the common marmoset is an appropriate
alternative NHP and will be used for the evaluation of medical countermeasures
against respiratory anthrax infection.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00581.x 
PMCID: PMC2525775
PMID: 18460069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

