

2287. Int J Exp Pathol. 2008 Jun;89(3):171-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00581.x.

Experimental respiratory anthrax infection in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Lever MS(1), Stagg AJ, Nelson M, Pearce P, Stevens DJ, Scott EA, Simpson AJ,
Fulop MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK. mslever@dstl.gov.uk

Inhalational anthrax is a rare but potentially fatal infection in man. The common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) was evaluated as a small non-human primate (NHP)
model of inhalational anthrax infection, as an alternative to larger NHP species.
The marmoset was found to be susceptible to inhalational exposure to Bacillus
anthracis Ames strain. The pathophysiology of infection following inhalational
exposure was similar to that previously reported in the rhesus and cynomolgus
macaque and humans. The calculated LD(50) for B. anthracis Ames strain in the
marmoset was 1.47 x 10(3) colony-forming units, compared with a published LD(50) 
of 5.5 x 10(4) spores in the rhesus macaque and 4.13 x 10(3) spores in the
cynomolgus macaque. This suggests that the common marmoset is an appropriate
alternative NHP and will be used for the evaluation of medical countermeasures
against respiratory anthrax infection.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2008.00581.x 
PMCID: PMC2525775
PMID: 18460069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2288. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06910. Epub 2008 May 4.

Neural substrates of vocalization feedback monitoring in primate auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
seliades@jhu.edu

Vocal communication involves both speaking and hearing, often taking place
concurrently. Vocal production, including human speech and animal vocalization,
poses a number of unique challenges for the auditory system. It is important for 
the auditory system to monitor external sounds continuously from the acoustic
environment during speaking despite the potential for sensory masking by
self-generated sounds. It is also essential for the auditory system to monitor
feedback of one's own voice. This self-monitoring may play a part in
distinguishing between self-generated or externally generatedauditory inputs and 
in detecting errors in our vocal production. Previous work in humans and other
animals has demonstrated that the auditory cortex is largely suppressed during
speaking or vocalizing. Despite the importance of self-monitoring, the underlying
neural mechanisms in the mammalian brain, in particular the role of
vocalization-induced suppression, remain virtually unknown. Here we show that
neurons in the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) are
sensitive to auditory feedback during vocal production, and that changes in the
feedback alter the coding properties of these neurons. Furthermore, we found that
the previously described cortical suppression during vocalization actually
increased the sensitivity of these neurons to vocal feedback. This heightened
sensitivity to vocal feedback suggests that these neurons may have an important
role in auditory self-monitoring.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06910 
PMID: 18454135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

