

229. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Feb 5;31(3):1660-1674. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa317.

Marmoset Brain ISH Data Revealed Molecular Difference Between Cortical Folding
Patterns.

Li X(1), Liu T(2)(3), Li Y(4), Li Q(5), Wang X(6), Hu X(1), Guo L(1), Zhang T(1),
Liu T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Information Fusion Technology, School of Automation,
Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an 710072, China.
(2)Center for Genomics and Computational Biology, College of Science, North China
University of Science and Technology, 063210, China.
(3)Center of Computational Biology, School of Life Science and Technology,
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu 611731, China.
(4)Cortical Architecture Imaging and Discovery Lab, Department of Computer
Science and Bioimaging Research Center, The University of Georgia, Athens, GA
30602, USA.
(5)The Information Processing Laboratory, School of Artificial Intelligence,
Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China.
(6)Computational Nano/Bio-Mechanics Lab, College of Engineering, The University
of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602, USA.

Literature studies have demonstrated the structural, connectional, and functional
differences between cortical folding patterns in mammalian brains, such as convex
and concave patterns. However, the molecular underpinning of such convex/concave 
differences remains largely unknown. Thanks to public access to a recently
released set of marmoset whole-brain in situ hybridization data by RIKEN, Japan; 
this data's accessibility empowers us to improve our understanding of the
organization, regulation, and function of genes and their relation to macroscale 
metrics of brains. In this work, magnetic resonance imaging and diffusion tensor 
imaging macroscale neuroimaging data in this dataset were used to delineate
convex/concave patterns in marmoset and to examine their structural features.
Machine learning and visualization tools were employed to investigate the
possible transcriptome difference between cortical convex and concave patterns.
Experimental results demonstrated that a collection of genes is differentially
expressed in convex and concave patterns, and their expression profiles can
robustly characterize and differentiate the two folding patterns. More
importantly, neuroscientific interpretations of these differentially expressed
genes, as well as axonal guidance pathway analysis and gene enrichment analysis, 
offer novel understanding of structural and functional differences between
cortical folding patterns in different regions from a molecular perspective.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permission@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa317 
PMID: 33152757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Neuropharmacology. 2021 Jan;182:108386. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.108386.
Epub 2020 Nov 3.

Selective blockade of the 5-HT3 receptor acutely alleviates dyskinesia and
psychosis in the parkinsonian marmoset.

Kwan C(1), Nuara SG(2), Bédard D(1), Gaudette F(3), Gourdon JC(2), Beaudry F(4), 
Huot P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Plateforme de Pharmacocinétique, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de 
l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department
of Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

In Parkinson's disease (PD), management of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine
(l-DOPA)-related complications, such as l-DOPA induced dyskinesia and psychosis, 
remains inadequate, which poses a significant burden on the quality of life of
patients. We have shown, in the hemi-parkinsonian rat model of PD, that the
selective serotonin type 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonists ondansetron and
granisetron decreased the severity of established dyskinesia, and ondansetron
even attenuated the development of dyskinesia. Here, we seek to confirm these
favourable data on dyskinesia and to explore the effect of ondansetron on the
severity of psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) in the gold standard model of PD,
the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned non-human
primate. We first determined the pharmacokinetic profile of ondansetron in the
marmoset. Subsequently, six MPTP-lesioned marmosets were administered l-DOPA
chronically until they exhibited stable and reproducible dyskinesia and PLBs upon
each administration of l-DOPA. On behavioural assessment days, ondansetron (0.01,
0.1 and 1 mg/kg) or vehicle was administered in conjunction with l-DOPA, and the 
severity of dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonism was evaluated. Ondansetron
0.1 mg/kg alleviated global dyskinesia severity by 73% (P < 0.0001) and decreased
duration of on-time with disabling dyskinesia by 88% (P = 0.0491). Ondansetron
0.1 mg/kg reduced the severity of global PLBs by 80% (P < 0.0001) and suppressed 
on-time with disabling PLBs (P = 0.0213). Ondansetron enhanced the
anti-parkinsonian action of l-DOPA, reducing global parkinsonism by 53% compared 
to l-DOPA (P = 0.0004). These results suggest that selective blockade of the
5-HT3 receptor with ondansetron may be an effective approach to alleviate
l-DOPA-related complications.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.108386 
PMID: 33152452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

