

2290. Neurosci Lett. 2008 May 30;437(2):121-4. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2008.03.069. Epub 
2008 Mar 28.

Diffuse cortical atrophy in a marmoset model of multiple sclerosis.

Pomeroy IM(1), Jordan EK, Frank JA, Matthews PM, Esiri MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
ian.pomeroy@nhs.net

Marmoset experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) has previously been
shown to replicate the essential features of both white matter and grey matter
lesions of MS. This study set out to investigate whether cortical atrophy occurs 
in marmoset EAE and whether cortical thinning is related to the presence of
focal, demyelinated cortical lesions. Seventeen leucocortical lesions and 13
subpial lesions were identified in 6 EAE cases. Cortical thickness surrounding
these lesions was recorded and compared with matched cortical areas from five
control animals. We found a diffuse 13-21% loss of cortical thickness in all
areas of EAE cortex compared with control animals but there was no additional
loss seen in demyelinated versus myelinated EAE cortex. These findings could not 
be accounted for by effects of age, sex and disease duration. We conclude that
localised cortical demyelination is not responsible for the major part of the
atrophy observed and that cortical thinning is largely due to more diffuse or
more remote factors. Marmoset EAE is an invaluable tool which can be used to
further investigate the cause and the substrate of cortical loss in demyelinating
diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2008.03.069 
PMCID: PMC2391306
PMID: 18440142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2291. Curr Protoc Neurosci. 2001 May;Chapter 9:Unit9.4. doi:
10.1002/0471142301.ns0904s09.

Preclinical models of Parkinson's disease.

Bankiewicz KS(1), Sanchez-Pernaute R, Oiwa Y, Kohutnicka M, Cummins A, Eberling
J.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NIH), Bethesda,
Maryland, USA.

Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disease in which pigmented midbrain
neurons progressively die producing a dopamine (DA) deficit in the striatum which
manifests as an akinetic movement disorder. Experimentally induced striatal DA
depletion in animals is a valid model of parkinsonism. The capacity of certain
substances to damage catecholaminergic neurones has been used for a long time to 
produce DA deficiency in animals. This unit focuses on methods for inducing
parkinsonism using the neurotoxins MPTP and 6-hydroxy dopamine and methods for
evaluating the animals. Other models are briefly reviewed.

DOI: 10.1002/0471142301.ns0904s09 
PMID: 18428552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

