

2292. Curr Protoc Hum Genet. 2001 May;Appendix 3:Appendix 3H. doi:
10.1002/0471142905.hga03hs02.

Establishment of permanent cell lines by Epstein-Barr virus transformation.

Gilbert J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

This basic protocol presents Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transformation of B cells
to create a permanent cell line to provide cells for genetic and DNA analysis.
Virus stocks are prepared from cultures of an infected marmoset cell line in the 
first support protocol. Transformed cells may be analyzed immediately or frozen
for future use as described in the second support protocol.

DOI: 10.1002/0471142905.hga03hs02 
PMID: 18428224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2293. Brain Pathol. 2008 Oct;18(4):497-503. doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2008.00149.x. Epub
2008 Mar 26.

No long-term effect two years after intrauterine exposure to dexamethasone on
dentate gyrus volume, neuronal proliferation and differentiation in common
marmoset monkeys.

Tauber SC(1), Bunkowski S, Schlumbohm C, Rühlmann M, Fuchs E, Nau R, Gerber J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Georg-August-University, Göttingen, Germany.

Glucocorticoids are prenatally administered to promote the maturation of the
lungs. They, however, can affect neuronal proliferation and differentiation. In
newborn marmoset monkeys, intrauterine hyperexposure to dexamethasone (DEX)
resulted in a significantly decreased proliferation rate in the hippocampal
dentate gyrus without affecting neuronal differentiation. In this study, marmoset
monkeys received 5 mg/kg body weight DEX either during early (days 42-48) or late
(days 90-96) pregnancy. The volume of the dentate granule cell layer as well as
the proliferation and neuronal differentiation in the dentate gyrus of their
2-year-old offspring were investigated. The density of proliferating cells
(Ki-67), apoptotic cells (in situ tailing) and cells differentiating to neurons
(double cortin, TUC-4 and calretinin) were determined immunohistochemically.
Analysis of the dentate granule cell layer volume showed no significant
differences between early or late DEX-exposed marmosets and untreated control
animals. Similarly, proliferation and neuronal differentiation in DEX-treated
animals was not significantly different in comparison with controls. In summary, 
the decreased proliferation rate observed in newborn marmosets after intrauterine
exposure to DEX was no longer detectable in their 2-year-old siblings suggesting 
no long-lasting effect of prenatal hyperexposure to DEX on neuronal proliferation
and differentiation in the dentate gyrus of marmoset monkeys.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2008.00149.x 
PMCID: PMC8095542
PMID: 18422980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

