

2293. Brain Pathol. 2008 Oct;18(4):497-503. doi: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2008.00149.x. Epub
2008 Mar 26.

No long-term effect two years after intrauterine exposure to dexamethasone on
dentate gyrus volume, neuronal proliferation and differentiation in common
marmoset monkeys.

Tauber SC(1), Bunkowski S, Schlumbohm C, Rühlmann M, Fuchs E, Nau R, Gerber J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Georg-August-University, Göttingen, Germany.

Glucocorticoids are prenatally administered to promote the maturation of the
lungs. They, however, can affect neuronal proliferation and differentiation. In
newborn marmoset monkeys, intrauterine hyperexposure to dexamethasone (DEX)
resulted in a significantly decreased proliferation rate in the hippocampal
dentate gyrus without affecting neuronal differentiation. In this study, marmoset
monkeys received 5 mg/kg body weight DEX either during early (days 42-48) or late
(days 90-96) pregnancy. The volume of the dentate granule cell layer as well as
the proliferation and neuronal differentiation in the dentate gyrus of their
2-year-old offspring were investigated. The density of proliferating cells
(Ki-67), apoptotic cells (in situ tailing) and cells differentiating to neurons
(double cortin, TUC-4 and calretinin) were determined immunohistochemically.
Analysis of the dentate granule cell layer volume showed no significant
differences between early or late DEX-exposed marmosets and untreated control
animals. Similarly, proliferation and neuronal differentiation in DEX-treated
animals was not significantly different in comparison with controls. In summary, 
the decreased proliferation rate observed in newborn marmosets after intrauterine
exposure to DEX was no longer detectable in their 2-year-old siblings suggesting 
no long-lasting effect of prenatal hyperexposure to DEX on neuronal proliferation
and differentiation in the dentate gyrus of marmoset monkeys.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2008.00149.x 
PMCID: PMC8095542
PMID: 18422980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2294. Arch Toxicol. 2008 Oct;82(10):717-27. doi: 10.1007/s00204-008-0296-8. Epub 2008
Apr 17.

Human CYP2E1 mediates the formation of glycidamide from acrylamide.

Settels E(1), Bernauer U, Palavinskas R, Klaffke HS, Gundert-Remy U, Appel KE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Experimental Toxicology, Federal Institute for Risk Assessment,
Thielallee 88-92, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

Regarding the cancer risk assessment of acrylamide (AA) it is of basic interest
to know, as to what amount of the absorbed AA is metabolized to glycidamide (GA) 
in humans, compared to what has been observed in laboratory animals. GA is
suspected of being the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite of AA. From experiments
with CYP2E1-deficient mice it can be concluded that AA is metabolized to GA
primarily by CYP2E1. We therefore examined whether CYP2E1 is involved in GA
formation in non-rodent species with the focus on humans by using human CYP2E1
supersomes, marmoset and human liver microsomes and in addition, genetically
engineered V79 cells expressing human CYP2E1 (V79h2E1 cells). Special emphasis
was placed on the analytical detection of GA, which was performed by gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry. The results show that AA is metabolized to GA
in human CYP2E1 supersomes, in marmoset and human liver microsomes as well as in 
V79h2E1 cells. The activity of GA formation is highest in supersomes; in human
liver it is somewhat higher than in marmoset liver. A monoclonal CYP2E1 human
selective antibody (MAB-2E1) and diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC) were used as
specific inhibitors of CYP2E1. The generation of GA could be inhibited by MAB-2E1
to about 80% in V79h2E1 cells and to about 90% in human and marmoset liver
microsomes. Also DDC led to an inhibition of about 95%. In conclusion, AA is
metabolized to GA by human CYP2E1. Overall, the present work describes (1) the
application and refinement of a sensitive methodology in order to determine low
amounts of GA, (2) the applicability of genetically modified V79 cell lines in
order to investigate specific questions concerning metabolism and (3) the
involvement, for the first time, of human CYP2E1 in the formation of GA from AA. 
Further studies will compare the activities of GA formation in genetically
engineered V79 cells expressing CYP2E1 from different species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-008-0296-8 
PMID: 18418580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

