

2296. Endocrinology. 2008 Jul;149(7):3313-20. doi: 10.1210/en.2007-1649. Epub 2008 Apr 
3.

Inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor in the primate ovary
up-regulates hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha in the follicle and corpus luteum.

Duncan WC(1), van den Driesche S, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Simpson Centre for Reproductive Health, Royal
Infirmary of Edinburgh, 51 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
w.c.duncan@ed.ac.uk

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-dependent angiogenesis is crucial for
follicular growth, and corpus luteum formation and function, in the primate
ovary. In the ovary VEGF can be hormonally regulated, but in other systems, the
main regulator of VEGF expression is hypoxia. We hypothesized that hypoxia was
involved in the regulation of angiogenesis in the cycling ovary. We therefore
used immunohistochemistry to localize hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha in
the marmoset ovary across the ovarian cycle. We also investigated the effect of
VEGF inhibition, using VEGF Trap (aflibercept), on HIF-1alpha localization during
the follicular and luteal phases of the cycle. Finally, we studied the effect of 
chorionic gonadotropin stimulation of the corpus luteum during early pregnancy.
Nuclear HIF-1alpha staining was largely absent from normally growing preantral
and antral follicles. However, there was marked up-regulation of nuclear
HIF-1alpha in the granulosa cells at ovulation that persisted into the early
corpus luteum. Mature corpora lutea and those collected during early pregnancy
had minimal nuclear HIF-1alpha staining. The inhibition of VEGF in the mid-luteal
stage resulted in a time-dependent up-regulation of luteal nuclear HIF-1alpha
staining (P < 0.05). There was never any nuclear HIF-1alpha in the theca cells of
the follicle, but VEGF Trap treatment during the follicular (P < 0.001) or luteal
(P < 0.001) phase increased the proportion of antral follicles with nuclear
HIF-1alpha staining in the granulosa cells. These results indicate that
HIF-1alpha is up-regulated after vascular inhibition, using VEGF Trap, in the
follicle and corpus luteum. However, it is also acutely up-regulated during
ovulation. This suggests a role for HIF-1alpha in both hypoxic and hormonal
regulation of ovarian VEGF expression in vivo.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2007-1649 
PMID: 18388198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2297. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2008 Apr;67(4):326-40. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e31816a6851.

Autoimmunity against myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein is dispensable for the
initiation although essential for the progression of chronic encephalomyelitis in
common marmosets.

Jagessar SA(1), Smith PA, Blezer E, Delarasse C, Pham-Dinh D, Laman JD, Bauer J, 
Amor S, 't Hart B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

To elucidate the pathogenetic significance of myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG)-specific autoreactivity in a genetically and immunologically heterogeneous 
nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis, we analyzed experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the outbred common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). One 
sibling each of 5 bone marrow chimeric marmoset twins was immunized with myelin
derived from wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice (WT myelin); the other sibling was
immunized with myelin from MOG-deficient C57BL/6 mice (MOG -/- myelin). One twin 
pair developed acute EAE simultaneously; the 4 remaining twin siblings immunized 
with WT myelin developed chronic progressive EAE, whereas siblings of these 4
monkeys remained free of clinical disease signs. Many EAE-related abnormalities
were identified in the CNS of both groups by magnetic resonance imaging and
histologic analysis, but mean percentages of spinal cord demyelination were lower
in monkeys immunized with MOG -/- myelin (8.2%) than in WT myelin-immunized
animals (40.5%). There was a strong correlation between the development of overt 
clinical EAE and seropositivity for anti-MOG antibodies, but blood and lymph node
T-cell proliferative responses showed no relationship to disease. These results
indicate that the initiation of CNS inflammation and demyelination can take place
in the absence of detectable autoimmunity against MOG, but the clinical
progression and histopathologic severity depends on the presence of antibodies
against MOG in this multiple sclerosis model.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e31816a6851 
PMID: 18379435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

