

2297. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2008 Apr;67(4):326-40. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e31816a6851.

Autoimmunity against myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein is dispensable for the
initiation although essential for the progression of chronic encephalomyelitis in
common marmosets.

Jagessar SA(1), Smith PA, Blezer E, Delarasse C, Pham-Dinh D, Laman JD, Bauer J, 
Amor S, 't Hart B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

To elucidate the pathogenetic significance of myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG)-specific autoreactivity in a genetically and immunologically heterogeneous 
nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis, we analyzed experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the outbred common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). One 
sibling each of 5 bone marrow chimeric marmoset twins was immunized with myelin
derived from wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice (WT myelin); the other sibling was
immunized with myelin from MOG-deficient C57BL/6 mice (MOG -/- myelin). One twin 
pair developed acute EAE simultaneously; the 4 remaining twin siblings immunized 
with WT myelin developed chronic progressive EAE, whereas siblings of these 4
monkeys remained free of clinical disease signs. Many EAE-related abnormalities
were identified in the CNS of both groups by magnetic resonance imaging and
histologic analysis, but mean percentages of spinal cord demyelination were lower
in monkeys immunized with MOG -/- myelin (8.2%) than in WT myelin-immunized
animals (40.5%). There was a strong correlation between the development of overt 
clinical EAE and seropositivity for anti-MOG antibodies, but blood and lymph node
T-cell proliferative responses showed no relationship to disease. These results
indicate that the initiation of CNS inflammation and demyelination can take place
in the absence of detectable autoimmunity against MOG, but the clinical
progression and histopathologic severity depends on the presence of antibodies
against MOG in this multiple sclerosis model.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e31816a6851 
PMID: 18379435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2298. PLoS Genet. 2008 Mar 21;4(3):e1000031. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000031.

An abundant evolutionarily conserved CSB-PiggyBac fusion protein expressed in
Cockayne syndrome.

Newman JC(1), Bailey AD, Fan HY, Pavelitz T, Weiner AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington, United States of America.

Cockayne syndrome (CS) is a devastating progeria most often caused by mutations
in the CSB gene encoding a SWI/SNF family chromatin remodeling protein. Although 
all CSB mutations that cause CS are recessive, the complete absence of CSB
protein does not cause CS. In addition, most CSB mutations are located beyond
exon 5 and are thought to generate only C-terminally truncated protein fragments.
We now show that a domesticated PiggyBac-like transposon PGBD3, residing within
intron 5 of the CSB gene, functions as an alternative 3' terminal exon. The
alternatively spliced mRNA encodes a novel chimeric protein in which CSB exons
1-5 are joined in frame to the PiggyBac transposase. The resulting
CSB-transposase fusion protein is as abundant as CSB protein itself in a variety 
of human cell lines, and continues to be expressed by primary CS cells in which
functional CSB is lost due to mutations beyond exon 5. The CSB-transposase fusion
protein has been highly conserved for at least 43 Myr since the divergence of
humans and marmoset, and appears to be subject to selective pressure. The human
genome contains over 600 nonautonomous PGBD3-related MER85 elements that were
dispersed when the PGBD3 transposase was last active at least 37 Mya. Many of
these MER85 elements are associated with genes which are involved in neuronal
development, and are known to be regulated by CSB. We speculate that the
CSB-transposase fusion protein has been conserved for host antitransposon
defense, or to modulate gene regulation by MER85 elements, but may cause CS in
the absence of functional CSB protein.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000031 
PMCID: PMC2268245
PMID: 18369450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

