

2298. PLoS Genet. 2008 Mar 21;4(3):e1000031. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000031.

An abundant evolutionarily conserved CSB-PiggyBac fusion protein expressed in
Cockayne syndrome.

Newman JC(1), Bailey AD, Fan HY, Pavelitz T, Weiner AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington, United States of America.

Cockayne syndrome (CS) is a devastating progeria most often caused by mutations
in the CSB gene encoding a SWI/SNF family chromatin remodeling protein. Although 
all CSB mutations that cause CS are recessive, the complete absence of CSB
protein does not cause CS. In addition, most CSB mutations are located beyond
exon 5 and are thought to generate only C-terminally truncated protein fragments.
We now show that a domesticated PiggyBac-like transposon PGBD3, residing within
intron 5 of the CSB gene, functions as an alternative 3' terminal exon. The
alternatively spliced mRNA encodes a novel chimeric protein in which CSB exons
1-5 are joined in frame to the PiggyBac transposase. The resulting
CSB-transposase fusion protein is as abundant as CSB protein itself in a variety 
of human cell lines, and continues to be expressed by primary CS cells in which
functional CSB is lost due to mutations beyond exon 5. The CSB-transposase fusion
protein has been highly conserved for at least 43 Myr since the divergence of
humans and marmoset, and appears to be subject to selective pressure. The human
genome contains over 600 nonautonomous PGBD3-related MER85 elements that were
dispersed when the PGBD3 transposase was last active at least 37 Mya. Many of
these MER85 elements are associated with genes which are involved in neuronal
development, and are known to be regulated by CSB. We speculate that the
CSB-transposase fusion protein has been conserved for host antitransposon
defense, or to modulate gene regulation by MER85 elements, but may cause CS in
the absence of functional CSB protein.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000031 
PMCID: PMC2268245
PMID: 18369450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


2299. J Neurosci. 2008 Mar 26;28(13):3415-26. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2743-07.2008.

Level invariant representation of sounds by populations of neurons in primary
auditory cortex.

Sadagopan S(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Neuroscience, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
vatsun@jhu.edu

A fundamental feature of auditory perception is the constancy of sound
recognition over a large range of intensities. Although this invariance has been 
described in behavioral studies, the underlying neural mechanism is essentially
unknown. Here we show a putative level-invariant representation of sounds by
populations of neurons in primary auditory cortex (A1) that may provide a neural 
basis for the behavioral observations. Previous studies reported that pure-tone
frequency tuning of most A1 neurons widens with increasing sound level. In sharp 
contrast, we found that a large proportion of neurons in A1 of awake marmosets
were narrowly and separably tuned to both frequency and sound level. Tuning
characteristics and firing rates of the neural population were preserved across
all tested sound levels. These response properties lead to a level-invariant
representation of sounds over the population of A1 neurons. Such a representation
is an important step for robust feature recognition in natural environments.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2743-07.2008 
PMCID: PMC6670591
PMID: 18367608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

