

2301. Hear Res. 2008 May;239(1-2):107-25. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2008.01.015. Epub 2008 
Feb 8.

Coding of FM sweep trains and twitter calls in area CM of marmoset auditory
cortex.

Kajikawa Y(1), de la Mothe LA, Blumell S, Sterbing-D'Angelo SJ, D'Angelo W,
Camalier CR, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, United States.

The primate auditory cortex contains three interconnected regions (core, belt,
parabelt), which are further subdivided into discrete areas. The caudomedial area
(CM) is one of about seven areas in the belt region that has been the subject of 
recent anatomical and physiological studies conducted to define the functional
organization of auditory cortex. The main goal of the present study was to
examine temporal coding in area CM of marmoset monkeys using two related classes 
of acoustic stimuli: (1) marmoset twitter calls; and (2) frequency-modulated (FM)
sweep trains modeled after the twitter call. The FM sweep trains were presented
at repetition rates between 1 and 24 Hz, overlapping the natural phrase frequency
of the twitter call (6-8 Hz). Multiunit recordings in CM revealed robust
phase-locked responses to twitter calls and FM sweep trains. For the latter,
phase-locking quantified by vector strength (VS) was best at repetition rates
between 2 and 8 Hz, with a mean of about 5 Hz. Temporal response patterns were
not strictly phase-locked, but exhibited dynamic features that varied with the
repetition rate. To examine these properties, classification of the repetition
rate from the temporal response pattern evoked by twitter calls and FM sweep
trains was examined by Fisher's linear discrimination analysis (LDA). Response
classification by LDA revealed that information was encoded not only by
phase-locking, but also other components of the temporal response pattern. For FM
sweep trains, classification was best for repetition rates from 2 to 8 Hz. Thus, 
the majority of neurons in CM can accurately encode the envelopes of temporally
complex stimuli over the behaviorally-relevant range of the twitter call. This
suggests that CM could be engaged in processing that requires relatively precise 
temporal envelope discrimination, and supports the hypothesis that CM is
positioned at an early stage of processing in the auditory cortex of primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2008.01.015 
PMCID: PMC2581800
PMID: 18342463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2302. J Virol. 2008 May;82(10):4706-19. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00116-08. Epub 2008 Mar 12.

Histone hyperacetylation occurs on promoters of lytic cycle regulatory genes in
Epstein-Barr virus-infected cell lines which are refractory to disruption of
latency by histone deacetylase inhibitors.

Countryman JK(1), Gradoville L, Miller G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.

Activation of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lytic cycle is mediated through the
combined actions of ZEBRA and Rta, the products of the viral BZLF1 and BRLF1
genes. During latency, these two genes are tightly repressed. Histone deacetylase
inhibitors (HDACi) can activate viral lytic gene expression. Therefore, a widely 
held hypothesis is that Zp and Rp, the promoters for BZLF1 and BRLF1, are
repressed by chromatin and that hyperacetylation of histone tails, by allowing
the access of positively acting factors, leads to transcription of BZLF1 and
BRLF1. To investigate this hypothesis, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation
(ChIP) to examine the acetylation and phosphorylation states of histones H3 and
H4 on Zp and Rp in three cell lines, Raji, B95-8, and HH514-16, which differ in
their response to EBV lytic induction by HDACi. We studied the effects of three
HDACi, sodium butyrate (NaB), trichostatin A (TSA), and valproic acid (VPA). We
also examined the effects of tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA) and
5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, on histone
modification. In Raji cells, TPA and NaB act synergistically to activate the EBV 
lytic cycle and promote an increase in histone H3 and H4 acetylation and
phosphorylation at Zp and Rp. Surprisingly, however, when Raji cells were treated
with NaB or TSA, neither of which is sufficient to activate the lytic cycle, an
increase of comparable magnitude of hyperacetylated and phosphorylated histone H3
at Zp and Rp was observed. In B95-8 cells, NaB inhibited lytic induction by TPA, 
yet NaB promoted hyperacetylation of H3 and H4. In HH514-16 cells, NaB and TSA
strongly activated the EBV lytic cycle and caused hyperacetylation of histone H3 
on Zp and Rp. However, when HH514-16 cells were treated with VPA, lytic cycle
mRNAs or proteins were not induced, although histone H3 was hyperacetylated as
measured by immunoblotting or by ChIP on Zp and Rp. Taken together, our data
suggest that open chromatin at EBV BZLF1 and BRLF1 promoters is not sufficient to
activate EBV lytic cycle gene expression.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00116-08 
PMCID: PMC2346723
PMID: 18337569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

