

2302. J Virol. 2008 May;82(10):4706-19. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00116-08. Epub 2008 Mar 12.

Histone hyperacetylation occurs on promoters of lytic cycle regulatory genes in
Epstein-Barr virus-infected cell lines which are refractory to disruption of
latency by histone deacetylase inhibitors.

Countryman JK(1), Gradoville L, Miller G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.

Activation of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lytic cycle is mediated through the
combined actions of ZEBRA and Rta, the products of the viral BZLF1 and BRLF1
genes. During latency, these two genes are tightly repressed. Histone deacetylase
inhibitors (HDACi) can activate viral lytic gene expression. Therefore, a widely 
held hypothesis is that Zp and Rp, the promoters for BZLF1 and BRLF1, are
repressed by chromatin and that hyperacetylation of histone tails, by allowing
the access of positively acting factors, leads to transcription of BZLF1 and
BRLF1. To investigate this hypothesis, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation
(ChIP) to examine the acetylation and phosphorylation states of histones H3 and
H4 on Zp and Rp in three cell lines, Raji, B95-8, and HH514-16, which differ in
their response to EBV lytic induction by HDACi. We studied the effects of three
HDACi, sodium butyrate (NaB), trichostatin A (TSA), and valproic acid (VPA). We
also examined the effects of tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA) and
5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, on histone
modification. In Raji cells, TPA and NaB act synergistically to activate the EBV 
lytic cycle and promote an increase in histone H3 and H4 acetylation and
phosphorylation at Zp and Rp. Surprisingly, however, when Raji cells were treated
with NaB or TSA, neither of which is sufficient to activate the lytic cycle, an
increase of comparable magnitude of hyperacetylated and phosphorylated histone H3
at Zp and Rp was observed. In B95-8 cells, NaB inhibited lytic induction by TPA, 
yet NaB promoted hyperacetylation of H3 and H4. In HH514-16 cells, NaB and TSA
strongly activated the EBV lytic cycle and caused hyperacetylation of histone H3 
on Zp and Rp. However, when HH514-16 cells were treated with VPA, lytic cycle
mRNAs or proteins were not induced, although histone H3 was hyperacetylated as
measured by immunoblotting or by ChIP on Zp and Rp. Taken together, our data
suggest that open chromatin at EBV BZLF1 and BRLF1 promoters is not sufficient to
activate EBV lytic cycle gene expression.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00116-08 
PMCID: PMC2346723
PMID: 18337569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2303. Epilepsy Behav. 2008 Jul;13(1):70-6. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2008.02.010. Epub 2008 
Mar 11.

Behavioral characterization of pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures in the
marmoset.

Bachiega JC(1), Blanco MM, Perez-Mendes P, Cinini SM, Covolan L, Mello LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal de SÃ£o Paulo, Sao Paulo,
Brazil.

This study was designed to characterize seizures induced with pentylenetetrazol
(PTZ) in marmosets. Thirteen adult marmosets (Callithrix sp.) received 20, 30, or
40 mg/kg of PTZ intraperitoneally. PTZ caused all animals to switch their natural
behavioral repertoire to early convulsive behavior. Seizure scores were low at
lower PTZ doses, whereas the highest dose of PTZ led to seizure scores IV and V
(according to Racine's scale) in 69% of animals. To further characterize the
model we performed a preliminary evaluation of the efficacy of three
antiepileptic drugs: phenobarbital, phenytoin, and carbamazepine. Phenobarbital
prevented PTZ-induced seizures in 100% of trials. As expected, phenytoin and
carbamazepine were not effective against PTZ-induced seizures. The present study 
describes the PTZ model of seizures in marmosets with a drug-response profile
similar to that of the rodent model, thus bringing to a well-known model (PTZ in 
rodents) the complexity of a nonhuman primate brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2008.02.010 
PMID: 18337181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

