

2303. Epilepsy Behav. 2008 Jul;13(1):70-6. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2008.02.010. Epub 2008 
Mar 11.

Behavioral characterization of pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures in the
marmoset.

Bachiega JC(1), Blanco MM, Perez-Mendes P, Cinini SM, Covolan L, Mello LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal de SÃ£o Paulo, Sao Paulo,
Brazil.

This study was designed to characterize seizures induced with pentylenetetrazol
(PTZ) in marmosets. Thirteen adult marmosets (Callithrix sp.) received 20, 30, or
40 mg/kg of PTZ intraperitoneally. PTZ caused all animals to switch their natural
behavioral repertoire to early convulsive behavior. Seizure scores were low at
lower PTZ doses, whereas the highest dose of PTZ led to seizure scores IV and V
(according to Racine's scale) in 69% of animals. To further characterize the
model we performed a preliminary evaluation of the efficacy of three
antiepileptic drugs: phenobarbital, phenytoin, and carbamazepine. Phenobarbital
prevented PTZ-induced seizures in 100% of trials. As expected, phenytoin and
carbamazepine were not effective against PTZ-induced seizures. The present study 
describes the PTZ model of seizures in marmosets with a drug-response profile
similar to that of the rodent model, thus bringing to a well-known model (PTZ in 
rodents) the complexity of a nonhuman primate brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2008.02.010 
PMID: 18337181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2304. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2008 May 9;369(3):801-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.141. Epub 2008 Mar 10.

Common marmoset embryonic stem cell can differentiate into cardiomyocytes.

Chen H(1), Hattori F, Murata M, Li W, Yuasa S, Onizuka T, Shimoji K, Ohno Y,
Sasaki E, Kimura K, Hakuno D, Sano M, Makino S, Ogawa S, Fukuda K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Regenerative Medicine and Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics, Keio
University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582,
Japan.

Common marmoset monkeys have recently attracted much attention as a primate
research model, and are preferred to rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys due to their
small bodies, easy handling and efficient breeding. We recently reported the
establishment of common marmoset embryonic stem cell (CMESC) lines that could
differentiate into three germ layers. Here, we report that our CMESC can also
differentiate into cardiomyocytes and investigated their characteristics. After
induction, FOG-2 was expressed, followed by GATA4 and Tbx20, then Nkx2.5 and
Tbx5. Spontaneous beating could be detected at days 12-15. Immunofluorescent
staining and ultrastructural analyses revealed that they possessed
characteristics typical of functional cardiomyocytes. They showed sinus node-like
action potentials, and the beating rate was augmented by isoproterenol
stimulation. The BrdU incorporation assay revealed that CMESC-derived
cardiomyocytes retained a high proliferative potential for up to 24 weeks. We
believe that CMESC-derived cardiomyocytes will advance preclinical studies in
cardiovascular regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.141 
PMID: 18331825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

