

2304. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2008 May 9;369(3):801-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.141. Epub 2008 Mar 10.

Common marmoset embryonic stem cell can differentiate into cardiomyocytes.

Chen H(1), Hattori F, Murata M, Li W, Yuasa S, Onizuka T, Shimoji K, Ohno Y,
Sasaki E, Kimura K, Hakuno D, Sano M, Makino S, Ogawa S, Fukuda K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Regenerative Medicine and Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics, Keio
University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582,
Japan.

Common marmoset monkeys have recently attracted much attention as a primate
research model, and are preferred to rhesus and cynomolgus monkeys due to their
small bodies, easy handling and efficient breeding. We recently reported the
establishment of common marmoset embryonic stem cell (CMESC) lines that could
differentiate into three germ layers. Here, we report that our CMESC can also
differentiate into cardiomyocytes and investigated their characteristics. After
induction, FOG-2 was expressed, followed by GATA4 and Tbx20, then Nkx2.5 and
Tbx5. Spontaneous beating could be detected at days 12-15. Immunofluorescent
staining and ultrastructural analyses revealed that they possessed
characteristics typical of functional cardiomyocytes. They showed sinus node-like
action potentials, and the beating rate was augmented by isoproterenol
stimulation. The BrdU incorporation assay revealed that CMESC-derived
cardiomyocytes retained a high proliferative potential for up to 24 weeks. We
believe that CMESC-derived cardiomyocytes will advance preclinical studies in
cardiovascular regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.141 
PMID: 18331825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2305. Exp Neurol. 2008 May;211(1):172-9. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2008.01.019. Epub
2008 Feb 9.

Continuous delivery of ropinirole reverses motor deficits without dyskinesia
induction in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Stockwell KA(1), Virley DJ, Perren M, Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College London, London, UK.

L-DOPA treatment of Parkinson's disease induces a high incidence of motor
complications, notably dyskinesia. Longer acting dopamine agonists, e.g.
ropinirole, are thought to produce more continuous dopaminergic stimulation and
less severe dyskinesia. However, standard oral administration of dopamine
agonists does not result in constant plasma drug levels, therefore, more
continuous drug delivery may result in both prolonged reversal of motor deficits 
and reduced levels of dyskinesia. Therefore, we compared the effects of repeated 
oral administration of ropinirole to constant subcutaneous infusion in
MPTP-treated common marmosets. Animals received oral administration (0.4 mg/kg,
BID) or continuous infusion of ropinirole (0.8 mg/kg/day) via osmotic minipumps
for 14 days (Phase I). The treatments were then switched and continued for a
further 14 days (Phase II). In Phase I, locomotor activity was similar between
treatment groups but reversal of motor disability was more pronounced in animals 
receiving continuous infusion. Dyskinesia intensity was low in both groups
however there was a trend suggestive of less marked dyskinesia in those animals
receiving continuous infusion. In Phase II, increased locomotor activity was
maintained but animals switched from oral to continuous treatment showing an
initial period of enhanced locomotor activity. The reversal of motor disability
was maintained in both groups, however, motor disability tended towards greater
improvement following continuous infusion. Importantly, dyskinesia remained low
in both groups suggesting that constant delivery of ropinirole neither leads to
priming nor expression of dyskinesia. These results suggest that a once-daily
controlled-release formulation may provide improvements over existing benefits
with standard oral ropinirole in Parkinson's disease patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2008.01.019 
PMID: 18321484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

