

2305. Exp Neurol. 2008 May;211(1):172-9. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2008.01.019. Epub
2008 Feb 9.

Continuous delivery of ropinirole reverses motor deficits without dyskinesia
induction in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Stockwell KA(1), Virley DJ, Perren M, Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College London, London, UK.

L-DOPA treatment of Parkinson's disease induces a high incidence of motor
complications, notably dyskinesia. Longer acting dopamine agonists, e.g.
ropinirole, are thought to produce more continuous dopaminergic stimulation and
less severe dyskinesia. However, standard oral administration of dopamine
agonists does not result in constant plasma drug levels, therefore, more
continuous drug delivery may result in both prolonged reversal of motor deficits 
and reduced levels of dyskinesia. Therefore, we compared the effects of repeated 
oral administration of ropinirole to constant subcutaneous infusion in
MPTP-treated common marmosets. Animals received oral administration (0.4 mg/kg,
BID) or continuous infusion of ropinirole (0.8 mg/kg/day) via osmotic minipumps
for 14 days (Phase I). The treatments were then switched and continued for a
further 14 days (Phase II). In Phase I, locomotor activity was similar between
treatment groups but reversal of motor disability was more pronounced in animals 
receiving continuous infusion. Dyskinesia intensity was low in both groups
however there was a trend suggestive of less marked dyskinesia in those animals
receiving continuous infusion. In Phase II, increased locomotor activity was
maintained but animals switched from oral to continuous treatment showing an
initial period of enhanced locomotor activity. The reversal of motor disability
was maintained in both groups, however, motor disability tended towards greater
improvement following continuous infusion. Importantly, dyskinesia remained low
in both groups suggesting that constant delivery of ropinirole neither leads to
priming nor expression of dyskinesia. These results suggest that a once-daily
controlled-release formulation may provide improvements over existing benefits
with standard oral ropinirole in Parkinson's disease patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2008.01.019 
PMID: 18321484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2306. J Comp Psychol. 2008 Feb;122(1):41-51. doi: 10.1037/0735-7036.122.1.41.

Visuospatial reaching preferences of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): an
assessment of individual biases across a variety of tasks.

Hook MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW, Australia. michellehook@tamu.edu

Using multiple measures of hand preference, the authors investigated
lateralization at an individual level in 21 common marmosets. Despite showing
group biases for sensory and communication functions, these same marmosets did
not show a group bias in direction of lateralized hand use. Hand preferences were
recorded on four novel reaching tasks requiring different levels of visual
guidance and postural control. As found for simple food holding (with the same
subjects), they displayed strong individual hand preferences but no group bias
indicative of handedness. The strength of hand preference was influenced by task 
demands: stronger preferences were expressed when subjects adopted a suspended
posture, and when "successful" versus "unsuccessful" foraging strategies were
compared. Comparisons between visuospatial reaching and simple food holding
preferences also revealed that half of the subjects displayed a division of
function between the hands/hemispheres; subjects displayed opposing preferences
in simple and visuospatial reaching, which would be beneficial for the
performance of coordinated bimanual tasks. Given the apparent absence of a
selective advantage for handedness, the authors suggest that hand preferences may
reflect hemispheric dominance of other cognitive domains (i.e., temperament).

(c) 2008 APA.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.122.1.41 
PMID: 18298280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

