

2306. J Comp Psychol. 2008 Feb;122(1):41-51. doi: 10.1037/0735-7036.122.1.41.

Visuospatial reaching preferences of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): an
assessment of individual biases across a variety of tasks.

Hook MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW, Australia. michellehook@tamu.edu

Using multiple measures of hand preference, the authors investigated
lateralization at an individual level in 21 common marmosets. Despite showing
group biases for sensory and communication functions, these same marmosets did
not show a group bias in direction of lateralized hand use. Hand preferences were
recorded on four novel reaching tasks requiring different levels of visual
guidance and postural control. As found for simple food holding (with the same
subjects), they displayed strong individual hand preferences but no group bias
indicative of handedness. The strength of hand preference was influenced by task 
demands: stronger preferences were expressed when subjects adopted a suspended
posture, and when "successful" versus "unsuccessful" foraging strategies were
compared. Comparisons between visuospatial reaching and simple food holding
preferences also revealed that half of the subjects displayed a division of
function between the hands/hemispheres; subjects displayed opposing preferences
in simple and visuospatial reaching, which would be beneficial for the
performance of coordinated bimanual tasks. Given the apparent absence of a
selective advantage for handedness, the authors suggest that hand preferences may
reflect hemispheric dominance of other cognitive domains (i.e., temperament).

(c) 2008 APA.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.122.1.41 
PMID: 18298280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2307. Lab Anim (NY). 2008 Mar;37(3):116-9. doi: 10.1038/laban0308-116.

A new device for the capture and transport of small nonhuman primates in
scientific research.

Williams PT(1), Poole MJ, Katos AM, Hilmas CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobehavioral Toxicology Branch, Analytical Toxicology Division, United
States Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, 3100 Ricketts Point
Road, APG-EA, MD 21010-5400, USA.

Conventional methods of capturing marmosets and other small nonhuman primates
(NHPs) require prolonged physical contact between animals and their handlers.
This causes NHPs to become stressed and exhausted and can put both animals and
handlers at risk of injury or exposure to infectious diseases. The authors
designed a self-contained device for the capture and transport of small NHPs.
Food rewards encourage primates to enter the device independently, and handlers
can then easily access the animals for routine veterinary or experimental
procedures. Preliminary observations suggest that marmosets quickly become
accustomed to the device and that the device causes less stress than capture by
hand or by net.

DOI: 10.1038/laban0308-116 
PMID: 18292773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

