

2307. Lab Anim (NY). 2008 Mar;37(3):116-9. doi: 10.1038/laban0308-116.

A new device for the capture and transport of small nonhuman primates in
scientific research.

Williams PT(1), Poole MJ, Katos AM, Hilmas CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobehavioral Toxicology Branch, Analytical Toxicology Division, United
States Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, 3100 Ricketts Point
Road, APG-EA, MD 21010-5400, USA.

Conventional methods of capturing marmosets and other small nonhuman primates
(NHPs) require prolonged physical contact between animals and their handlers.
This causes NHPs to become stressed and exhausted and can put both animals and
handlers at risk of injury or exposure to infectious diseases. The authors
designed a self-contained device for the capture and transport of small NHPs.
Food rewards encourage primates to enter the device independently, and handlers
can then easily access the animals for routine veterinary or experimental
procedures. Preliminary observations suggest that marmosets quickly become
accustomed to the device and that the device causes less stress than capture by
hand or by net.

DOI: 10.1038/laban0308-116 
PMID: 18292773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2308. J Biol Chem. 2008 Apr 25;283(17):11763-71. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M800896200. Epub 2008
Feb 21.

Dynamic interaction of the measles virus hemagglutinin with its receptor
signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM, CD150).

Navaratnarajah CK(1), Vongpunsawad S, Oezguen N, Stehle T, Braun W, Hashiguchi T,
Maenaka K, Yanagi Y, Cattaneo R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Virology and Gene Therapy Graduate Track,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

The interaction of measles virus with its receptor signaling lymphocytic
activation molecule (SLAM) controls cell entry and governs tropism. We predicted 
potential interface areas of the measles virus attachment protein hemagglutinin
to begin the investigation. We then assessed the relevance of individual amino
acids located in these areas for SLAM-binding and SLAM-dependent membrane fusion,
as measured by surface plasmon resonance and receptor-specific fusion assays,
respectively. These studies identified one hemagglutinin protein residue,
isoleucine 194, which is essential for primary binding. The crystal structure of 
the hemagglutinin-protein localizes Ile-194 at the interface of propeller blades 
5 and 6, and our data indicate that a small aliphatic side chain of residue 194
stabilizes a protein conformation conducive to binding. In contrast, a quartet of
residues previously shown to sustain SLAM-dependent fusion is not involved in
binding. Instead, our data prove that after binding, this quartet of residues on 
propeller blade 5 conducts conformational changes that are receptor-specific. Our
study sets a structure-based stage for understanding how the SLAM-elicited
conformational changes travel through the H-protein ectodomain before triggering 
fusion protein unfolding and membrane fusion.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M800896200 
PMCID: PMC2431048
PMID: 18292085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

