

2308. J Biol Chem. 2008 Apr 25;283(17):11763-71. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M800896200. Epub 2008
Feb 21.

Dynamic interaction of the measles virus hemagglutinin with its receptor
signaling lymphocytic activation molecule (SLAM, CD150).

Navaratnarajah CK(1), Vongpunsawad S, Oezguen N, Stehle T, Braun W, Hashiguchi T,
Maenaka K, Yanagi Y, Cattaneo R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Virology and Gene Therapy Graduate Track,
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

The interaction of measles virus with its receptor signaling lymphocytic
activation molecule (SLAM) controls cell entry and governs tropism. We predicted 
potential interface areas of the measles virus attachment protein hemagglutinin
to begin the investigation. We then assessed the relevance of individual amino
acids located in these areas for SLAM-binding and SLAM-dependent membrane fusion,
as measured by surface plasmon resonance and receptor-specific fusion assays,
respectively. These studies identified one hemagglutinin protein residue,
isoleucine 194, which is essential for primary binding. The crystal structure of 
the hemagglutinin-protein localizes Ile-194 at the interface of propeller blades 
5 and 6, and our data indicate that a small aliphatic side chain of residue 194
stabilizes a protein conformation conducive to binding. In contrast, a quartet of
residues previously shown to sustain SLAM-dependent fusion is not involved in
binding. Instead, our data prove that after binding, this quartet of residues on 
propeller blade 5 conducts conformational changes that are receptor-specific. Our
study sets a structure-based stage for understanding how the SLAM-elicited
conformational changes travel through the H-protein ectodomain before triggering 
fusion protein unfolding and membrane fusion.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M800896200 
PMCID: PMC2431048
PMID: 18292085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2309. Vis Neurosci. 2008 Jan-Feb;25(1):67-76. doi: 10.1017/S0952523808080073.

Distribution of bipolar input to midget and parasol ganglion cells in marmoset
retina.

Eriköz B(1), Jusuf PR, Percival KA, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Australia.

Different types of retinal ganglion cell show differences in their response
properties. Here we investigated the question of whether these differences are
related to the distribution of the synaptic input to the dendritic tree. We
measured the distribution and density of synaptic input to the dendrites of
midget and parasol ganglion cells in the retina of a New World monkey, the
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Ganglion cells were retrogradely labeled by dye
injection into parvocellular or magnocellular regions of the lateral geniculate
nucleus and subsequently photo-filled. Presumed bipolar cell synapses were
identified immunocytochemically using antibodies against the ribbon protein CtBP2
or the GluR4 subunit of the AMPA receptor. For all cells, colocalized
immunoreactive puncta were distributed across the entire dendritic tree. The
density of the presumed bipolar input to midget ganglion cells was comparable for
both synaptic markers, suggesting that the AMPA receptor GluR4 subunit is
expressed at all synapses between midget bipolar and midget ganglion cells.
Midget ganglion cells had an average of nine colocalized immunoreactive puncta
per 100 microm2 dendritic surface, and parasol cells had an average of seven
colocalized immunoreactive puncta per 100 microm2 dendritic surface. The
densities were comparable in different regions of the dendritic tree and were not
influenced by the location of the cells with respect to the fovea. Our findings
suggest that the differences in the response characteristics of midget and
parasol cells are not due to differences in the density of synaptic input to
their dendritic tree.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523808080073 
PMID: 18282311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

