

2311. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Apr 10;507(5):1811-30. doi: 10.1002/cne.21652.

Distribution of the protein IMPACT, an inhibitor of GCN2, in the mouse, rat, and 
marmoset brain.

Bittencourt S(1), Pereira CM, Avedissian M, Delamano A, Mello LE, Castilho BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP,
04023-062, Brazil.

IMPACT is an inhibitor of GCN2, a kinase that phosphorylates the alpha subunit of
the translation initiation factor 2 (eIF2 alpha). GCN2 has been implicated in
regulating feeding behavior and learning and memory in mice. IMPACT is highly
abundant in the brain, suggesting its relevance in the control of GCN2 activation
in the central nervous system. We describe here the distribution of IMPACT in the
brain of rodents (mice and rats) and of a primate (marmoset) using highly
specific antibodies raised against the mouse IMPACT protein. Neurons expressing
high levels of IMPACT were found in most areas of the brain. In the hippocampal
formation the lack of IMPACT in the dentate gyrus granule cells was striking. The
hypothalamus is exceptionally rich in neurons expressing high levels of IMPACT,
particularly in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The only exception to this pattern
was the ventromedial nucleus. The thalamic neurons are mostly devoid of IMPACT,
with the exception of the paraventricular, reuniens and reticular nuclei, and
intergeniculate leaf. The brainstem displayed high levels of IMPACT. For the
marmoset, IMPACT expression in the brain is not as prominent when compared to
other organs. In the marmoset brain the pattern of IMPACT expression was similar 
to rodents in most areas, except for the very strong labeling of the Purkinje
cells, the lack of IMPACT-positive neurons in the nucleus reuniens, and weak
labeling of interneurons in the hippocampus. GCN1, the activator of GCN2 to which
IMPACT binds, is widely distributed in all neuronal populations, and all
IMPACT-positive cells were also GCN1-positive. The data presented herein suggest 
that IMPACT may be involved in biochemical homeostatic mechanisms that would
prevent GCN2 activation and therefore ATF4 (CREB-2) synthesis in neurons.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21652 
PMID: 18260151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2312. Brain Res. 2008 Mar 10;1198:160-70. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2007.12.065. Epub
2008 Jan 4.

Cerebrospinal fluid to brain transport of manganese in a non-human primate
revealed by MRI.

Bock NA(1), Paiva FF, Nascimento GC, Newman JD, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1065, USA. bockn@mail.nih.gov

Manganese overexposure in non-human primates and humans causes a
neurodegenerative disorder called manganism thought to be related to an
accumulation of the metal in the basal ganglia. Here, we assess changes in the
concentration of manganese in regions of the brain of a non-human primate (the
common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus) following four systemic injections of 30
mg/kg MnCl2 H2O in the tail vein using T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) and compare these to changes in the rat following the same exposure route
and dose. The doses were spaced 48 h apart and we imaged the animals 48 h after
the final dose. We find that marmosets have significantly larger T1-weighted
image enhancements in regions of the brain compared to rats, notably in the basal
ganglia and the visual cortex. To confirm this difference across species reflects
actual differences in manganese concentrations and not variations in the MRI
properties of manganese, we measured the longitudinal relaxivity of manganese
(chi1) in the in vivo brain and found no significant species' difference. The
high manganese uptake in the marmoset basal ganglia and visual cortex can be
explained by CSF-brain transport from the large lateral ventricles and we confirm
this route of uptake with time-course MRI during a tail-vein infusion of
manganese. There is also high uptake in the substructures of the hippocampus that
are adjacent to the ventricles. The large manganese accumulation in these
structures on overexposure may be common to all primates, including humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2007.12.065 
PMCID: PMC2276322
PMID: 18243167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

