

2314. Curr Protoc Cell Biol. 2001 May;Chapter 2:Unit 2.4. doi:
10.1002/0471143030.cb0204s01.

Generation of continuously growing B cell lines by epstein-barr virus
transformation.

Biddison WE(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland, USA.

Primary cultures of cells tend to have a limited life span, which in turn limits 
the availability of a consistent population of cells to study. In this unit,
Epstein-Barr virus produced by a marmoset cell line is used to transform B cells 
into a continuously growing cell line that produces no virus. These cell lines
can be used as a constant source of cells for further study.

DOI: 10.1002/0471143030.cb0204s01 
PMID: 18228349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2315. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2008 May;18(5):383-9. doi:
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2007.11.003. Epub 2008 Jan 28.

Therapeutic effects of Delta9-THC and modafinil in a marmoset Parkinson model.

van Vliet SA(1), Vanwersch RA, Jongsma MJ, Olivier B, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Security and Safety,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands. s.a.m.van.vliet@med.umcg.nl

Current therapies for Parkinson's disease (PD) like l-dopa and dopamine (DA)
agonists have declined efficacy after long term use. Therefore, research towards 
supplementary or alternative medication is needed. The implementation in PD can
be expedited by application of compounds already used in the clinic. In this
study the therapeutic effects of the psychoactive compounds
Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) and modafinil were tested in the
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-marmoset model for PD. The
anti-parkinson effects of Delta(9)-THC (4 mg/kg) and modafinil (100 mg/kg) in
parkinsonian marmosets were assessed with two behavioral rating scales covering
parkinsonian symptoms and involuntary movements and two test systems assessing
the locomotor activity and hand-eye coordination. Delta(9)-THC improved activity 
and hand-eye coordination, but induced compound-related side-effects. Modafinil
improved activity and observed parkinsonian symptoms but not hand-eye
coordination. It can be concluded that both compounds have therapeutic values and
could supplement existing therapies for PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2007.11.003 
PMID: 18222654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

