

2316. Pharmacogenet Genomics. 2008 Jan;18(1):53-66. doi: 10.1097/FPC.0b013e3282f313f8.

CYP3 phylogenomics: evidence for positive selection of CYP3A4 and CYP3A7.

Qiu H(1), Taudien S, Herlyn H, Schmitz J, Zhou Y, Chen G, Roberto R, Rocchi M,
Platzer M, Wojnowski L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: CYP3A metabolizes 50% of currently prescribed drugs and is frequently 
involved in clinically relevant drug interactions. The understanding of roles and
regulations of the individual CYP3A genes in pharmacology and physiology is
incomplete.
METHODS: Using genomic sequences from 16 species we investigated the evolution of
CYP3 genomic loci over a period of 450 million years.
RESULTS: CYP3A genes in amniota evolved from two ancestral CYP3A genes. Upon the 
emergence of eutherian mammals, one of them was lost, whereas, the other acquired
a novel genomic environment owing to translocation. In primates, CYP3A underwent 
rapid evolutionary changes involving multiple gene duplications, deletions,
pseudogenizations, and gene conversions. The expansion of CYP3A in catarrhines
(Old World monkeys, great apes, and humans) differed substantially from New World
primates (e.g. common marmoset) and strepsirrhines (e.g. galago). We detected two
recent episodes of particularly strong positive selection acting on primate CYP3A
protein-coding sequence: (i) on CYP3A7 early in hominoid evolution, which was
accompanied by a restriction of its hepatic expression to fetal period and (ii)
on human CYP3A4 following the split of the chimpanzee and human lineages. In
agreement with these findings, three out of four positively selected amino acids 
investigated in previous biochemical studies of CYP3A affect the activity and
regioselectivity.
CONCLUSIONS: CYP3A7 and CYP3A4 may have acquired catalytic functions especially
important for the evolution of hominoids and humans, respectively.

DOI: 10.1097/FPC.0b013e3282f313f8 
PMID: 18216722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2317. J Immunol. 2008 Feb 1;180(3):1326-37.

Fast progression of recombinant human myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in marmosets is
associated with the activation of MOG34-56-specific cytotoxic T cells.

Kap YS(1), Smith P, Jagessar SA, Remarque E, Blezer E, Strijkers GJ, Laman JD,
Hintzen RQ, Bauer J, Brok HP, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The recombinant human (rh) myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in the common marmoset is
characterized by 100% disease incidence, a chronic disease course, and a variable
time interval between immunization and neurological impairment. We investigated
whether monkeys with fast and slow disease progression display different anti-MOG
T or B cell responses and analyzed the underlying pathogenic mechanism(s). The
results show that fast progressor monkeys display a significantly wider
specificity diversification of anti-MOG T cells at necropsy than slow
progressors, especially against MOG(34-56) and MOG(74-96). MOG(34-56) emerged as 
a critical encephalitogenic peptide, inducing severe neurological disease and
multiple lesions with inflammation, demyelination, and axonal injury in the CNS. 
Although EAE was not observed in MOG(74-96)-immunized monkeys, weak T cell
responses against MOG(34-56) and low grade CNS pathology were detected. When
these cases received a booster immunization with MOG(34-56) in IFA, full-blown
EAE developed. MOG(34-56)-reactive T cells expressed CD3, CD4, or CD8 and CD56,
but not CD16. Moreover, MOG(34-56)-specific T cell lines displayed specific
cytotoxic activity against peptide-pulsed B cell lines. The phenotype and
cytotoxic activity suggest that these cells are NK-CTL. These results support the
concept that cytotoxic cells may play a role in the pathogenesis of multiple
sclerosis.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.180.3.1326 
PMID: 18209026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

