

2317. J Immunol. 2008 Feb 1;180(3):1326-37.

Fast progression of recombinant human myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in marmosets is
associated with the activation of MOG34-56-specific cytotoxic T cells.

Kap YS(1), Smith P, Jagessar SA, Remarque E, Blezer E, Strijkers GJ, Laman JD,
Hintzen RQ, Bauer J, Brok HP, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The recombinant human (rh) myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in the common marmoset is
characterized by 100% disease incidence, a chronic disease course, and a variable
time interval between immunization and neurological impairment. We investigated
whether monkeys with fast and slow disease progression display different anti-MOG
T or B cell responses and analyzed the underlying pathogenic mechanism(s). The
results show that fast progressor monkeys display a significantly wider
specificity diversification of anti-MOG T cells at necropsy than slow
progressors, especially against MOG(34-56) and MOG(74-96). MOG(34-56) emerged as 
a critical encephalitogenic peptide, inducing severe neurological disease and
multiple lesions with inflammation, demyelination, and axonal injury in the CNS. 
Although EAE was not observed in MOG(74-96)-immunized monkeys, weak T cell
responses against MOG(34-56) and low grade CNS pathology were detected. When
these cases received a booster immunization with MOG(34-56) in IFA, full-blown
EAE developed. MOG(34-56)-reactive T cells expressed CD3, CD4, or CD8 and CD56,
but not CD16. Moreover, MOG(34-56)-specific T cell lines displayed specific
cytotoxic activity against peptide-pulsed B cell lines. The phenotype and
cytotoxic activity suggest that these cells are NK-CTL. These results support the
concept that cytotoxic cells may play a role in the pathogenesis of multiple
sclerosis.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.180.3.1326 
PMID: 18209026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2318. Vet Pathol. 2008 Jan;45(1):80-4. doi: 10.1354/vp.45-1-80.

Malignant nephroblastoma in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Zöller M(1), Mätz-Rensing K, Fahrion A, Kaup FJ.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany. mzoeller@dpz.gwdg.de

Necropsy of a 17-month-old male common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with a
history of increased abdominal girth resulted in the finding of a unilateral
polycystic renal neoplasm. Detailed histopathologic and immunohistochemical
investigations revealed different tissue types within the tumor including stromal
connective tissue and fusiform mesenchymal cell formations surrounding blastemal 
cells as well as different developmental stages of organ-specific epithelial
cells accompanied by extensive cyst formation. Metastases were not observed. In
consideration of the macroscopic, histologic, and immunohistochemical findings,
the tumor was classified as a nephroblastoma closely resembling the so-called
Wilms' tumor, a malignant embryonic renal tumor frequently observed in humans,
especially in young children. In contrast, this tumor entity has rarely been
observed in nonhuman primates. This report represents the first documented case
of a cystic variant of nephroblastoma in a nonhuman primate.

DOI: 10.1354/vp.45-1-80 
PMID: 18192583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

