

2319. Hippocampus. 2008;18(4):425-34. doi: 10.1002/hipo.20403.

Calretinin expression in hilar mossy cells of the hippocampal dentate gyrus of
nonhuman primates and humans.

Seress L(1), Abrahám H, Czéh B, Fuchs E, Léránth C.

Author information: 
(1)Central Electron Microscopic Laboratory, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Pécs, Pécs, Hungary. laszlo.seress@aok.pte.hu

Mossy cells, the major excitatory neurons of the hilus of the dentate gyrus
constitutively express calretinin in several rodent species, including mouse and 
hamster, but not in rats. Several studies suggest that mossy cells of the monkey 
dentate gyrus are calretinin-positive, but others have reported mossy cells in
monkeys to be devoid of detectable calretinin-like immunoreactivity. In the
present study, the hilar region was investigated throughout the entire
longitudinal extent of the hippocampal dentate gyrus in both Old World and New
World monkeys, as well as in humans. In the examined four monkey species, mossy
cells were found to be calretinin-positive at the uncal pole and at variable
length within the main body of the dentate gyrus but not in the tail part. The
associational pathway, formed by axons of mossy cells in the inner dentate
molecular layer was calretinin-positive in more caudal sections, suggesting that 
mossy cell axon terminals may contain calretinin, whereas mossy cell somata may
contain calretinin in a concentration too low to be detected by
immunocytochemistry. In contrast, human mossy cells appear to be devoid of
calretinin immunoreactivity in both their somata and their axon terminals. Taken 
together, mossy cells of nonhuman primates and humans exhibit different
expression pattern for calretinin whereas they show similarities in neurochemical
content, such as the cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript peptide.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.20403 
PMID: 18189312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2320. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2008 Apr;33(3):321-7. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.11.014. Epub 2008 Jan 9.

Effects of acute systemic cocaine administration on the cortisol, ACTH and
prolactin levels of black tufted-ear marmosets.

Lima D(1), Spíndola DB, Dias LO, Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

The effect of acute systemic cocaine administration on total circulating
cortisol, adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and prolactin levels of nine adult
black tufted-ear marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) was investigated. For 
each subject, two blood samples were obtained after an i.p. injection of 10 and
20mg/kg of cocaine: one sample was drawn 30-min post-injection, while the second 
was following a 60-min interval. Blood samples were also obtained 0, 30 and 60
min following a saline injection. The 20 mg/kg dose of cocaine induced a
significant decrease in ACTH levels 60 min after being administered. Circulating 
levels of cortisol, on the other hand, increased significantly 60 min after the
20 mg/kg dose. Prolactin concentrations decreased significantly 30 and 60 min
after both doses of cocaine had been administered (10 and 20 mg/kg). Finally, the
content of the three hormones analyzed remained constant 0, 30 and 60 min
post-saline administrations. Therefore, an acute systemic cocaine challenge
alters the basal circulating levels of ACTH, cortisol and prolactin of marmoset
monkeys. A distinct response pattern was observed for each hormone analyzed,
possibly related to specific negative feedback mechanisms and/or this species
glucocorticoid-resistance. The use of this small neotropical primate may thus
provide a unique opportunity to investigate cocaine-induced neuroendocrine
effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.11.014 
PMID: 18187261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

