

232. J Hum Evol. 2020 Dec;149:102882. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2020.102882. Epub 2020 Oct
24.

Meat eating by nonhuman primates: A review and synthesis.

Watts DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Anthropology, Yale University, P.O. Box 208277, New Haven, CT,
06520-8277, United States. Electronic address: david.watts@yale.edu.

Most nonhuman primates prey on vertebrates. Meat-eating, defined as ingestion of 
vertebrate tissue, occurs in 12 families, ≥39 genera, and ≥89 species. It is most
common in capuchins (Cebus and Sapajus spp.), baboons (Papio spp.), bonobos (Pan 
paniscus), and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and modestly common in blue monkeys 
(Cercopithecus mitis), callitrichids (Callithrix spp. and Saguinus spp.), and
squirrel monkeys (Saimiri spp.). It is uncommon in other cercopithecines, rare in
other haplorhines and in lemurs, and virtually absent in colobines. Birds are the
prey class eaten by the most species (≥53), followed by reptiles (≥48),
amphibians (≥38), mammals (≥35), and fish (≥7). Major hypotheses for the
importance of meat eating are that it is (1) mainly an energy source, especially 
(1a) when plant-source foods (PSFs) with high energy return rates are scarce
(energy shortfall hypothesis); (2) mainly a protein source; and (3) mainly a
source of micronutrients scarce in PSFs. Meat eating bouts sometimes provide
substantial energy and protein, and some chimpanzees gain substantial protein
from meat monthly or annually. However, meat typically accounts for only small
proportions of feeding time and of total energy and protein intake, and
quantitative data are inconsistent with the energy shortfall hypothesis. PSFs
and/or invertebrates are presumably the main protein sources, even for
chimpanzees. Support is strongest for the micronutrient hypothesis. Most
chimpanzees eat far less meat than recorded for hunter-gatherers, but the highest
chimpanzee estimates approach the lowest for African hunter-gatherers. In
fundamental contrast to the human predatory pattern, other primates only eat
vertebrates much smaller than they are, tool-assisted predation is rare except in
some capuchins and chimpanzees, and tool use in carcass processing is virtually
absent. However, harvesting of small prey deserves more attention with reference 
to the archaeological and ethnographic record.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2020.102882 
PMID: 33137551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The author declares no
conflict of interest.


233. Neuroimage. 2021 Jan 15;225:117521. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117521. Epub
2020 Nov 1.

The role of MRI in applying the 3Rs to non-human primate neuroscience.

Prescott MJ(1), Poirier C(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in
Research (NC3Rs), Gibbs Building, 215 Euston Road, London NW1 2BE, UK. Electronic
address: mark.prescott@nc3rs.org.uk.
(2)Biosciences Institute & Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle
University, Medical School, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.
Electronic address: colline.poirier@ncl.ac.uk.

Magnetic resonance imaging is playing a significant role in applying the 3Rs to
neuroscience studies using non-human primates. MRI scans are contributing to
refinement by enhancing the selection and assignment of animals, guiding the
manufacture of custom-fitted recording and head fixation devices, and assisting
with the diagnosis of health issues and their treatment. MRI is also being used
to better understand the impact of neuroscience procedures on the welfare of
NHPs. MRI has helped to optimise NHP use and make greater scientific progress
than would otherwise be made using larger numbers of animals. Whilst human fMRI
studies have replaced some NHP studies, their potential to directly replace NHP
electrophysiology is limited at present. Given the considerable advantages of MRI
for electrophysiology experiments, including improved welfare of NHPs,
consideration should be given to focusing NHP electrophysiology laboratories
around MRI facilities. Greater sharing of MRI data sets, and improvements in MRI 
contrast and resolution, are expected to further advance the 3Rs in the future.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117521 
PMID: 33137476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no competing interests.

