

2320. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2008 Apr;33(3):321-7. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.11.014. Epub 2008 Jan 9.

Effects of acute systemic cocaine administration on the cortisol, ACTH and
prolactin levels of black tufted-ear marmosets.

Lima D(1), Sp√≠ndola DB, Dias LO, Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

The effect of acute systemic cocaine administration on total circulating
cortisol, adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and prolactin levels of nine adult
black tufted-ear marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) was investigated. For 
each subject, two blood samples were obtained after an i.p. injection of 10 and
20mg/kg of cocaine: one sample was drawn 30-min post-injection, while the second 
was following a 60-min interval. Blood samples were also obtained 0, 30 and 60
min following a saline injection. The 20 mg/kg dose of cocaine induced a
significant decrease in ACTH levels 60 min after being administered. Circulating 
levels of cortisol, on the other hand, increased significantly 60 min after the
20 mg/kg dose. Prolactin concentrations decreased significantly 30 and 60 min
after both doses of cocaine had been administered (10 and 20 mg/kg). Finally, the
content of the three hormones analyzed remained constant 0, 30 and 60 min
post-saline administrations. Therefore, an acute systemic cocaine challenge
alters the basal circulating levels of ACTH, cortisol and prolactin of marmoset
monkeys. A distinct response pattern was observed for each hormone analyzed,
possibly related to specific negative feedback mechanisms and/or this species
glucocorticoid-resistance. The use of this small neotropical primate may thus
provide a unique opportunity to investigate cocaine-induced neuroendocrine
effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.11.014 
PMID: 18187261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2321. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Mar 10;507(2):1151-68. doi: 10.1002/cne.21596.

Microstimulation and architectonics of frontoparietal cortex in common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Burish MJ(1), Stepniewska I, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program and Medical Scientist Training Program,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240, USA.

We investigated the organization of frontoparietal cortex in the common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) by using intracortical microstimulation and an architectonic
analysis. Primary motor cortex (M1) was identified as an area that evoked visible
movements at low levels of electric current and had a full body representation of
the contralateral musculature. Primary motor cortex represented the contralateral
body from hindlimb to face in a mediolateral sequence, with individual movements 
such as jaw and wrist represented in multiple nearby locations. Primary motor
cortex was coextensive with an agranular area of cortex marked by a distinct
layer V of large pyramidal cells that gradually decreased in size toward the
rostral portion of the area and was more homogenous in appearance than other New 
World primates. In addition to M1, stimulation also evoked movements from several
other areas of frontoparietal cortex. Caudal to primary motor cortex, area 3a was
identified as a thin strip of cortex where movements could be evoked at
thresholds similar to those in M1. Rostral to primary motor cortex, supplementary
motor cortex and premotor areas responded to higher stimulation currents and had 
smaller layer V pyramidal cells. Other areas evoking movements included primary
somatosensory cortex (area 3b), two lateral somatosensory areas (areas PV and
S2), and a caudal somatosensory area. Our results suggest that frontoparietal
cortex in marmosets is organized in a similar fashion to that of other New World 
primates.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21596 
PMID: 18175349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

