

2321. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Mar 10;507(2):1151-68. doi: 10.1002/cne.21596.

Microstimulation and architectonics of frontoparietal cortex in common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Burish MJ(1), Stepniewska I, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program and Medical Scientist Training Program,
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240, USA.

We investigated the organization of frontoparietal cortex in the common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) by using intracortical microstimulation and an architectonic
analysis. Primary motor cortex (M1) was identified as an area that evoked visible
movements at low levels of electric current and had a full body representation of
the contralateral musculature. Primary motor cortex represented the contralateral
body from hindlimb to face in a mediolateral sequence, with individual movements 
such as jaw and wrist represented in multiple nearby locations. Primary motor
cortex was coextensive with an agranular area of cortex marked by a distinct
layer V of large pyramidal cells that gradually decreased in size toward the
rostral portion of the area and was more homogenous in appearance than other New 
World primates. In addition to M1, stimulation also evoked movements from several
other areas of frontoparietal cortex. Caudal to primary motor cortex, area 3a was
identified as a thin strip of cortex where movements could be evoked at
thresholds similar to those in M1. Rostral to primary motor cortex, supplementary
motor cortex and premotor areas responded to higher stimulation currents and had 
smaller layer V pyramidal cells. Other areas evoking movements included primary
somatosensory cortex (area 3b), two lateral somatosensory areas (areas PV and
S2), and a caudal somatosensory area. Our results suggest that frontoparietal
cortex in marmosets is organized in a similar fashion to that of other New World 
primates.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21596 
PMID: 18175349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2322. Endocrinology. 2008 Apr;149(4):1736-47. doi: 10.1210/en.2007-1325. Epub 2008 Jan 
3.

Complete spermatogenesis in orthotopic but not in ectopic transplants of
autologously grafted marmoset testicular tissue.

Luetjens CM(1), Stukenborg JB, Nieschlag E, Simoni M, Wistuba J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
MÃ¼nster, Germany.

Testicular grafting has the potential to become a method to preserve fertility in
prepubertal boys undergoing cancer treatment. The possibility of successful germ 
cell maturation after autologous grafting should be proven preclinically in a
nonhuman primate model. Therefore, in two experiments, we analyzed the potential 
of autologous testicular grafting in the marmoset model. A first experiment in
immature and adult hemi-castrated monkeys addressed the question of whether full 
spermatogenesis in an ectopic graft could be achieved under a relatively normal
endocrine milieu and whether the donor's age is of influence. A second experiment
in castrated immature animals examined whether the transplantation site [ectopic 
(back skin) or orthotopic (scrotum)] influences spermatogenic progress and
whether cryopreserved tissue can be successfully transplanted. Grafts were
analyzed by histology, immunohistochemistry, and morphometry. Bioactive chorionic
gonadotropin and serum testosterone were measured. In the adults, ectopic grafts 
degenerated, whereas in the immature animals, grafts survived at the
spermatogonial level. In the castrates, none of the cryopreserved grafts
survived, ectopic grafts were meiotically arrested, but orthotopic transplants
completed spermatogenesis. Androgen and bioactive chorionic gonadotropin levels
were not decisive for graft development. When ectopic and orthotopic
transplantation sites were compared, the scrotum has a substantially lower
temperature. Thus, the higher temperature at the ectopic transplantation site may
contribute to spermatogenic arrest. Autologous grafting of nonhuman primate
testicular tissues can result in complete spermatogenesis. Our findings indicate 
that transplantation site and developmental age of the tissue play a role more
important than the endocrine milieu.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2007-1325 
PMID: 18174281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

