

2322. Endocrinology. 2008 Apr;149(4):1736-47. doi: 10.1210/en.2007-1325. Epub 2008 Jan 
3.

Complete spermatogenesis in orthotopic but not in ectopic transplants of
autologously grafted marmoset testicular tissue.

Luetjens CM(1), Stukenborg JB, Nieschlag E, Simoni M, Wistuba J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
MÃ¼nster, Germany.

Testicular grafting has the potential to become a method to preserve fertility in
prepubertal boys undergoing cancer treatment. The possibility of successful germ 
cell maturation after autologous grafting should be proven preclinically in a
nonhuman primate model. Therefore, in two experiments, we analyzed the potential 
of autologous testicular grafting in the marmoset model. A first experiment in
immature and adult hemi-castrated monkeys addressed the question of whether full 
spermatogenesis in an ectopic graft could be achieved under a relatively normal
endocrine milieu and whether the donor's age is of influence. A second experiment
in castrated immature animals examined whether the transplantation site [ectopic 
(back skin) or orthotopic (scrotum)] influences spermatogenic progress and
whether cryopreserved tissue can be successfully transplanted. Grafts were
analyzed by histology, immunohistochemistry, and morphometry. Bioactive chorionic
gonadotropin and serum testosterone were measured. In the adults, ectopic grafts 
degenerated, whereas in the immature animals, grafts survived at the
spermatogonial level. In the castrates, none of the cryopreserved grafts
survived, ectopic grafts were meiotically arrested, but orthotopic transplants
completed spermatogenesis. Androgen and bioactive chorionic gonadotropin levels
were not decisive for graft development. When ectopic and orthotopic
transplantation sites were compared, the scrotum has a substantially lower
temperature. Thus, the higher temperature at the ectopic transplantation site may
contribute to spermatogenic arrest. Autologous grafting of nonhuman primate
testicular tissues can result in complete spermatogenesis. Our findings indicate 
that transplantation site and developmental age of the tissue play a role more
important than the endocrine milieu.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2007-1325 
PMID: 18174281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2323. J Virol. 2008 Mar;82(6):3054-60. Epub 2007 Dec 19.

Virus-specific T-cell immunity correlates with control of GB virus B infection in
marmosets.

Woollard DJ(1), Haqshenas G, Dong X, Pratt BF, Kent SJ, Gowans EJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Burnet Institute, G.P.O. Box 2284, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
woollard@burnet.edu.au

GB virus B (GBV-B) is a hepatotropic virus that is closely related to hepatitis C
virus (HCV). GBV-B causes acute hepatitis in infected marmosets and tamarins and 
is therefore a useful small-animal model for the study of HCV. We investigated
virus-specific T-cell responses in marmosets infected with GBV-B. Gamma
interferon (IFN-gamma) enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay responses in the 
peripheral blood of two marmosets were assessed throughout the course of GBV-B
infection. These T-cell responses were directed against the GBV-B nonstructural
proteins 3 (NS3), 4A (NS4A), and 5B (NS5B), and their appearance was temporally
associated with clearance of viremia. These marmosets were then rechallenged with
GBV-B at least 3 months after clearance of the primary infection to determine if 
the animals were protected from reinfection. There was no detectable viremia
following reinfection, although a sharp increase in T-cell responses against
GBV-B proteins was observed. Epitope mapping of T-cell responses to GBV-B was
performed with liver and blood samples from both marmosets after rechallenge with
GBV-B. Three shared, immunodominant T-cell epitopes within NS3 were identified in
animals with multiple common major histocompatibility complex class I alleles.
IFN-gamma ELISPOT responses were also detected in the livers of two marmosets
that had resolved a primary GBV-B infection. These responses were high in
frequency and were directed against epitopes within GBV-B NS3, NS4A, and NS5B
proteins. These results indicate that virus-specific T-cell responses are
detectable in the liver and blood of GBV-B-infected marmosets and that the
clearance of GBV-B is associated with the appearance of these responses.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01153-07 
PMCID: PMC2259009
PMID: 18094181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

