

2325. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Dec 11;104(50):19762-6. Epub 2007 Dec 5.

Other-regarding preferences in a non-human primate: common marmosets provision
food altruistically.

Burkart JM(1), Fehr E, Efferson C, van Schaik CP.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057
Zurich, Switzerland. judith.burkart@aim.uzh.ch

Human cooperation is unparalleled in the animal world and rests on an altruistic 
concern for the welfare of genetically unrelated strangers. The evolutionary
roots of human altruism, however, remain poorly understood. Recent evidence
suggests a discontinuity between humans and other primates because individual
chimpanzees do not spontaneously provide food to other group members, indicating 
a lack of concern for their welfare. Here, we demonstrate that common marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) do spontaneously provide food to nonreciprocating
and genetically unrelated individuals, indicating that other-regarding
preferences are not unique to humans and that their evolution did not require
advanced cognitive abilities such as theory of mind. Because humans and marmosets
are cooperative breeders and the only two primate taxa in which such unsolicited 
prosociality has been found, we conclude that these prosocial predispositions may
emanate from cooperative breeding.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0710310104 
PMCID: PMC2148372
PMID: 18077409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2326. Brain Res. 2008 Jan 16;1189:219-28. Epub 2007 Nov 1.

Exploring the neuroprotective effects of modafinil in a marmoset Parkinson model 
with immunohistochemistry, magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy.

van Vliet SA(1), Blezer EL, Jongsma MJ, Vanwersch RA, Olivier B, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Security and Safety,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands. s.a.m.van.vliet@med.umcg.nl

Erratum in
    Brain Res. 2008 Apr 14;1204:123. van Vlieta, S A M [corrected to van Vliet, S A
M].

Neuroprotective therapeutics stop or slow down the degeneration process in animal
models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Neuronal survival in PD animal models is
often measured by immunohistochemistry. However, dynamic changes in the pathology
of the brain cannot be explored with this technique. Application of proton
magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) can cover this
lacuna as these techniques are non-invasive and can be repeated over time in the 
same animal. Therefore, the sensitivity of both techniques to measure changes in 
PD-pathology was explored in an experiment studying the neuroprotective effects
of the vigilance enhancer modafinil in a marmoset PD model. Eleven marmoset
monkeys were treated with the neurotoxin 1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP). Six of these 11 animals, simultaneously, received a daily oral dose of
modafinil (100 mg/kg) and five received vehicle for 27 days. MR experiments were 
performed at baseline and 1 and 3.5 weeks after the MPTP intoxication period
after which brains were analyzed with immunohistochemistry. Tyrosine hydroxylase 
immunoreactive (TH-IR) staining of dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra pars 
compacta confirmed that modafinil was able to partially prevent the MPTP-induced 
neuronal damage. In MRS, N-acetylaspartate (NAA)/phosphocreatine (tCR) ratios
confirmed the protective effect indicating that this is a sensitive measure to
detect neuroprotection in the MPTP marmoset model. Furthermore, the number of
TH-IR positive neurons and the NAA/tCR ratio were significantly correlated to
behavioral observations indicating that the changes measured in the brain are
also reflected in the behavior and vice versa.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2007.10.059 
PMID: 18076869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

