

2330. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2008 Mar;197(1):59-66. Epub 2007 Dec 5.

Efficacy of caffeine and modafinil in counteracting sleep deprivation in the
marmoset monkey.

van Vliet SA(1), Jongsma MJ, Vanwersch RA, Olivier B, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Safety and Security, Lange
Kleiweg 137, 2288, GJ , Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The effects of sleep deprivation are a burden in our 24-h
society. The use of wake-promoting compounds could improve the performance in
situations where sleep cannot be allowed. In this study, the efficacy of the
wake-promoting compounds, modafinil and caffeine, in counteracting the effects of
24-h sleep deprivation in the marmoset monkey were tested. As caffeine is
habitually used, the efficacy of both compounds after short- and long-term use
was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: After a normal active day, the animals were kept awake and
received wake-promoting compounds during the whole night. Three times during the 
sleep-deprived night, putative fatigue was assessed with an activity test and the
vigilance and ability to execute a task was assessed with a hand-eye coordination
(HEC) task.
RESULTS: Both compounds were able to counteract to some extent the decline in
performance. Modafinil was able to keep the activity at baseline performance, but
performance on the HEC task was not improved. Caffeine was able to keep
performance in the HEC task at a level just below daytime level but was not able 
to keep activity at daytime levels during the last part of the night. Caffeine
and modafinil administration for 2 weeks showed a comparable effect on activity
as acute use. The performance on the HEC task was similar after chronic caffeine 
and improved after chronic modafinil.
CONCLUSION: It is therefore concluded that modafinil and caffeine were both able 
to postpone or prevent the decline in vigilance and psychomotor performance and
increase in fatigue induced by sleep deprivation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-007-1005-7 
PMID: 18057918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2331. J Helminthol. 2008 Mar;82(1):81-4. Epub 2007 Dec 6.

Development of Fasciola hepatica in Lymnaea columella infected with miracidia
derived from cattle and marmoset infections.

Mendes EA(1), Lima WS, de Melo AL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Antonio Carlos, 6627, CP 486, CEP 30123 970, Minas
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

The development of Fasciola hepatica from two species of definitive hosts, i.e.
cattle (Bos taurus) and a marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) in the snail Lymnaea 
columella was determined based on the production of rediae and cercariae and
snail survival rate. More rediae and cercariae at 60-74 days post-infection were 
produced by snails infected by cattle-derived miracidia (cattle group) than by
those infected by marmoset-derived miracidia (marmoset group). Among the L.
columella parasitized by the marmoset group, the survival rate and the percentage
of positive snails were higher than among those parasitized by the cattle group. 
Eggs of F. hepatica released in cattle faeces were significantly bigger than
those released in marmoset faeces. Miracidia originating from parasites that
completed their development in cattle were more efficient in infecting the
intermediate host. These results suggest that vertebrate-host origin influences
the eggs produced by the parasite and the infection rates in the snail host L.
columella.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022149X07873585 
PMID: 18053300  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

