

2332. Horm Behav. 2008 Jan;53(1):274-86. Epub 2007 Oct 17.

Post-conception reproductive competition in cooperatively breeding common
marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Liedl KJ, Salper OJ, Pick RR, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Common marmosets are cooperatively breeding monkeys that exhibit high female
reproductive skew. Subordinate females usually fail to breed as a consequence of 
ovulation suppression and inhibition of sexual behavior, and, even when they do
breed, typically rear fewer infants than dominants. We evaluated possible
mechanisms of post-conception reproductive competition by comparing hormonal
profiles across pregnancy, pregnancy outcomes, infant survivorship, and behavior 
in laboratory-housed families containing one (N=9) or two (N=7) breeding females.
Breeding females in plurally breeding groups did not exhibit well-defined
dominance relationships and rarely engaged in escalated aggression with one
another. No significant differences were found among singly breeding mothers,
plurally breeding mothers, and plurally breeding daughters in urinary chorionic
gonadotropin or estradiol sulfate concentrations during pregnancy, fetal
biparietal diameter, frequency of spontaneous abortion, frequency of stillbirths,
number of live-born infants per litter, or infant mortality rates. When females
gave birth while another female in the family was pregnant, however, their
infants were highly likely to be killed. The perpetrator was definitively
identified in only one family, in which a pregnant female killed her daughter's
infant. These results are consistent with observations of free-living common
marmosets and suggest that breeding females do not regularly influence one
another's pregnancy outcomes, but that they may commonly kill each other's
infants, especially during their own pregnancy. Our findings further suggest that
infanticide by breeding females may have selected for the evolution of
reproductive restraint in subordinate female marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2007.10.005 
PMID: 18045596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2333. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2008 Feb;324(2):600-11. Epub 2007 Nov 16.

S33138
[N-[4-[2-[(3aS,9bR)-8-cyano-1,3a,4,9b-tetrahydro[1]-benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyrrol-2(3H
)-yl)-ethyl]phenylacetamide], a preferential dopamine D3 versus D2 receptor
antagonist and potential antipsychotic agent. II. A neurochemical,
electrophysiological and behavioral characterization in vivo.

Millan MJ(1), Svenningsson P, Ashby CR Jr, Hill M, Egeland M, Dekeyne A, Brocco
M, Di Cara B, Lejeune F, Thomasson N, Munoz C, MocaÃ«r E, Crossman A, Cistarelli
L, Girardon S, Iob L, Veiga S, Gobert A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Recherches Servier, Centre de Recherches de Croissy,
Psychopharmacology Department, 125, Chemin de Ronde, 78290 Croissy-sur-Seine,
France. mark.millan@fr.netgrs.com

The novel benzopyranopyrrolidine, S33138
[N-[4-[2-[(3aS,9bR)-8-cyano-1,3a,4,9b-tetrahydro[1]benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyrrol-2(3H)
-yl)-ethyl]phenylacetamide], is a preferential antagonist of cloned human D(3)
versus D(2L) and D(2S) receptors. In mice, S33138 (0.04-2.5 mg/kg i.p.) increased
levels of mRNA encoding c-fos in D(3) receptor-rich Isles of Calleja and nucleus 
accumbens more potently than in D(2) receptor-rich striatum. Furthermore, chronic
(3 weeks) administration of S33138 to rats reduced the number of spontaneously
active dopaminergic neurones in the ventral tegmental area (0.16-10.0 p.o.) more 
potently than in the substantia nigra (10.0). In primates treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, antiparkinson actions of the
D(3)/D(2) agonist, ropinirole, were potentiated by low doses of S33138 (0.01-0.16
p.o.) but diminished by a high dose (2.5). Consistent with antagonism of
postsynaptic D(3)/D(2) sites, S33138 attenuated hypothermia and yawns elicited by
the D(3)/D(2) agonist 7-OH-DPAT [(+)-7-dihydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin]
in rats, and it blocked (0.01-0.63, s.c.) discriminative properties of PD128,907 
[(+)-(4aR,10bR)-3,4,
4a,10b-tetrahydro-4-propyl-2H,5H-[1]benzopyrano-[4,3-b]-1,4-oxazin-9-ol;
trans-N-[4-[2-(6-cyano-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)ethyl]cyclohexyl]-4-qui
nolininecarboxamide]. Suggesting antagonist properties at D(3)/D(2)
autoreceptors, S33138 prevented (0.16-2.5 s.c.) the inhibitory influence of
PD128,907 upon dopamine release in frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and
striatum and abolished (0.004-0.25 i.v.) its inhibition of ventral tegmental
dopaminergic neuron firing. At higher doses, antagonist actions of S33138
(0.5-4.0 i.v.) at alpha(2C)-adrenoceptors were revealed by an increased firing
rate of adrenergic perikarya. Finally, antagonism of 5-hydroxytryptamine
(5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(7)) receptors was shown by blockade of
1-[2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl]-2-aminopropane-induced head twitches (0.63-10.0
s.c.) and 5-carboxytryptamine-induced hypothermia (2.5-20.0 i.p.), respectively. 
In conclusion, S33138 displays modest antagonist properties at central
alpha(2C)-adrenoceptors, 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(7) receptors. Furthermore, in line
with its in vitro actions, it more potently blocks cerebral populations of D(3)
versus D(2) receptors.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.107.132563 
PMID: 18024787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

