

2337. Immunology. 2008 Apr;123(4):566-74. Epub 2007 Nov 14.

Isolation and characterization of dendritic cells from common marmosets for
preclinical cell therapy studies.

Ohta S(1), Ueda Y, Yaguchi M, Matsuzaki Y, Nakamura M, Toyama Y, Tanioka Y,
Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Okano H, Kawakami Y, Toda M.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Research Group, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

Dendritic cells (DCs) have important functions as modulators of immune responses,
and their ability to activate T cells is of great value in cancer immunotherapy. 
The isolation of DCs from the peripheral blood of rhesus and African green
monkeys has been reported, but the immune system in the common marmoset remains
poorly characterized, although it offers many potential advantages for
preclinical studies. In the present study, we devised methods, based on
techniques developed for mouse and human DC preparation, for isolating DCs from
three major tissue sources in the common marmoset: bone marrow (BM), spleen and
peripheral blood. Each set of separated cells was analysed using the cell surface
DC-associated markers CD11c, CD80, CD83, CD86 and human leucocyte antigen
(HLA)-DR, all of which are antibodies against human antigens, and the cells were 
further characterized both functionally and morphologically as antigen-presenting
cells. BM proved to be an excellent cell source for the isolation of DCs intended
for preclinical studies on cell therapy, for which large quantities of cells are 
required. In the BM-derived CD11c(+) cell population, cells exhibiting the
characteristic features of DCs were enriched, with the typical DC morphology and 
the abilities to undergo endocytosis, to secrete interleukin (IL)-12, and to
stimulate Xenogenic T cells. Moreover, BM-derived DCs produced the neurotrophic
factor NT-3, which is also found in murine splenic DCs. These results suggest
that BM-derived DCs from the common marmoset may be useful for biological
analysis and for preclinical studies on cell therapy for central nervous system
diseases and cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2567.2007.02727.x 
PMCID: PMC2433308
PMID: 18005037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2338. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Nov;26(10):2906-21.

Characterization and synaptic connectivity of melanopsin-containing ganglion
cells in the primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Lee SC, Hannibal J, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Cnr Keppel & Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

Melanopsin is a photopigment expressed in retinal ganglion cells, which are
intrinsically photosensitive and are also involved in retinal circuits arising
from rod and cone photoreceptors. This circuitry, however, is poorly understood. 
Here, we studied the morphology, distribution and synaptic input to
melanopsin-containing ganglion cells in a New World monkey, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). The dendrites of melanopsin-containing cells in marmoset
stratify either close to the inner nuclear layer (outer stratifying), or close to
the ganglion cell layer (inner stratifying). The dendritic fields of
outer-stratifying cells tile the retina, with little overlap. However, the
dendritic fields of outer-stratifying cells largely overlap with the dendritic
fields of inner-stratifying cells. Thus, inner-stratifying and outer-stratifying 
cells may form functionally independent populations. The synaptic input to
melanopsin-containing cells was determined using synaptic markers (antibodies to 
C-terminal binding protein 2, CtBP2, for presumed bipolar synapses, and
antibodies to gephyrin for presumed amacrine synapses). Both outer-stratifying
and inner-stratifying cells show colocalized immunoreactive puncta across their
entire dendritic tree for both markers. The density of CtBP2 puncta on inner
dendrites was about 50% higher than that on outer dendrites. The density of
gephyrin puncta was comparable for outer and inner dendrites but higher than the 
density of CtBP2 puncta. The inner-stratifying cells may receive their input from
a type of diffuse bipolar cell (DB6). Our results are consistent with the idea
that both outer and inner melanopsin cells receive bipolar and amacrine input
across their dendritic tree.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05924.x 
PMID: 18001286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

