

2338. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Nov;26(10):2906-21.

Characterization and synaptic connectivity of melanopsin-containing ganglion
cells in the primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Lee SC, Hannibal J, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Cnr Keppel & Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

Melanopsin is a photopigment expressed in retinal ganglion cells, which are
intrinsically photosensitive and are also involved in retinal circuits arising
from rod and cone photoreceptors. This circuitry, however, is poorly understood. 
Here, we studied the morphology, distribution and synaptic input to
melanopsin-containing ganglion cells in a New World monkey, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). The dendrites of melanopsin-containing cells in marmoset
stratify either close to the inner nuclear layer (outer stratifying), or close to
the ganglion cell layer (inner stratifying). The dendritic fields of
outer-stratifying cells tile the retina, with little overlap. However, the
dendritic fields of outer-stratifying cells largely overlap with the dendritic
fields of inner-stratifying cells. Thus, inner-stratifying and outer-stratifying 
cells may form functionally independent populations. The synaptic input to
melanopsin-containing cells was determined using synaptic markers (antibodies to 
C-terminal binding protein 2, CtBP2, for presumed bipolar synapses, and
antibodies to gephyrin for presumed amacrine synapses). Both outer-stratifying
and inner-stratifying cells show colocalized immunoreactive puncta across their
entire dendritic tree for both markers. The density of CtBP2 puncta on inner
dendrites was about 50% higher than that on outer dendrites. The density of
gephyrin puncta was comparable for outer and inner dendrites but higher than the 
density of CtBP2 puncta. The inner-stratifying cells may receive their input from
a type of diffuse bipolar cell (DB6). Our results are consistent with the idea
that both outer and inner melanopsin cells receive bipolar and amacrine input
across their dendritic tree.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05924.x 
PMID: 18001286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2339. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2008 Apr;28(4):786-96. Epub 2007 Nov 14.

Intraluminal thread model of focal stroke in the non-human primate.

Freret T(1), Bouet V, Toutain J, Saulnier R, Pro-Sistiaga P, Bihel E, Mackenzie
ET, Roussel S, Schumann-Bard P, Touzani O.

Author information: 
(1)University of Caen, CNRS-UMR 6185, Cyceron, Caen, France.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, has recently been
used as a model of focal cerebral ischaemia. Here, we sought to develop a stroke 
model in this species using an intraluminal approach to occlude the middle
cerebral artery (MCA). This technically simple procedure allows both transient
and permanent ischaemia with minimal morbidity. Ten common marmosets underwent
either transient (3 h) or permanent ischaemia by the insertion of a nylon
filament through the external carotid artery up to the origin of the MCA.
Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was monitored by the laser-Doppler flowmetry technique.
Sensorimotor functions were regularly evaluated, and histologic,
immunohistochemical, and magnetic resonance imaging analyses were performed 8
days after the occlusion. The surgical procedure was achieved straightforwardly
without postoperative mortality or cerebral haemorrhage. All animals displayed a 
consistent decrease in CBF that remained stable over 3 h. Infarction affected
both cortical and subcortical structures. Although not statistically significant,
the volume of infarction was smaller in marmosets subjected to transient
ischaemia compared to those permanently occluded (237+/-139 and 358+/-118 mm3,
respectively). In all the behavioural tests used, reperfused marmosets exhibited 
fewer neurologic and functional impairments compared to permanently occluded
ones. We show the feasibility of the induction of permanent or transient focal
cerebral ischaemia in the marmoset using an intraluminal approach with minimal
invasion. This model could be suitable as an advanced screening for potential
stroke therapies in which behavioural, imaging, and histologic analyses can be
compared.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jcbfm.9600575 
PMID: 18000514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

