

2344. Vision Res. 2007 Dec;47(26):3324-34. Epub 2007 Oct 29.

Rotated prism-wear disrupts emmetropization but does not reliably induce
hyperopia in the New World monkey.

Whatham AR(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Oxford, Department of Physiology, Anatomy, & Genetics,
Sherrington Building, Parks Road, OX1 3PT Oxford, UK.

To determine whether a disruption of binocular vision that has been previously
shown to be amblyogenic disturbs visually guided growth, and in particular to
follow-up the observation by Kiorpes and Wallman [Kiorpes, L., & Wallman, J.
(1995). Does experimentally-induced amblyopia cause hyperopia in monkeys? Vision 
Research, 35(9), 1289-1297] that monkeys in whom strabismus had been induced some
years earlier were hyperopic in eyes that had become amblyopic, we induced
unilateral fixation in five infant New World monkeys (marmosets) through the
wearing of a Fresnel prism (of 15 or 30 prism dioptres power) in front of one eye
for four weeks. The prism was rotated every three hours during the prism-wear
period to encourage a preference for fixating with the contralateral eye.
Refractive error and intraocular axial dimensions were measured before, and at
intervals after the prism-wearing period. Fixation preference was measured
behaviourally, during and after the prism-wear period. Cortical visual function
was subsequently assessed through recording of pattern-reversal VEPs in each
marmoset between 11 and 14 months of age to assess whether amblyopia had
developed in the non-fixing eye. All marmosets used the untreated eye almost
exclusively for a monocular visual task by the end of the prism-rearing period.
This preference was still present up to at least 7 months after prism-wear had
ceased. VEP measures showed a loss of sensitivity at low spatial frequencies (the
only ones we were able to test), compatible with amblyopia having developed in
the non-fixating eyes of the prism-reared marmosets. Eyes that wore prisms were
not significantly different from their fellow eyes in mean refractive error or
mean vitreous chamber depth (repeated measures ANOVA; P>0.05) before or at any
time after prism-wear had ceased. Two marmosets developed 2-3D of anisometropia
(one hyperopic and one myopic) at the end of prism-wear, that was attributable to
interocular differences in vitreous chamber depth, and which decreased towards
isometropia in the period following prism-wear removal. Disruption of binocular
vision with rotating prisms can influence emmetropization and ocular growth,
although it does not appear to do so in a consistent way.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2007.09.014 
PMID: 17967473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2345. J Virol. 2008 Jan;82(1):346-57. Epub 2007 Oct 24.

Adaptation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 envelope glycoproteins to
new world monkey receptors.

Pacheco B(1), Basmaciogullari S, Labonte JA, Xiang SH, Sodroski J.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 44 Binney Street, JFB 824, Boston, MA 02115,
USA.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection encounters an early block
in the cells of New World monkeys because the CD4 receptor does not efficiently
support HIV-1 entry. We adapted HIV-1(NL4-3) and HIV-1(KB9), two HIV-1 variants
with different envelope glycoproteins, to replicate efficiently in cells
expressing the CD4 and CXCR4 proteins of the common marmoset, a New World monkey.
The HIV-1(NL4-3) adaptation involves three gp120 changes that result in a
specific increase in affinity for the marmoset CD4 glycoprotein. The already high
affinity of the HIV-1(KB9) envelope glycoproteins for marmoset CD4 did not
significantly change as a result of the adaptation. Instead, changes in the gp120
variable loops and gp41 ectodomain resulted in improved replication in cells
expressing the marmoset receptors. HIV-1(KB9) became relatively sensitive to
neutralization by soluble CD4 and antibodies as a result of the adaptation. These
results demonstrate the distinct mechanistic pathways by which the HIV-1 envelope
glycoproteins can adapt to less-than-optimal CD4 molecules and provide HIV-1
variants that can overcome some of the early blocks in New World monkey cells.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01299-07 
PMCID: PMC2224371
PMID: 17959679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

