

2345. J Virol. 2008 Jan;82(1):346-57. Epub 2007 Oct 24.

Adaptation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 envelope glycoproteins to
new world monkey receptors.

Pacheco B(1), Basmaciogullari S, Labonte JA, Xiang SH, Sodroski J.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 44 Binney Street, JFB 824, Boston, MA 02115,
USA.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection encounters an early block
in the cells of New World monkeys because the CD4 receptor does not efficiently
support HIV-1 entry. We adapted HIV-1(NL4-3) and HIV-1(KB9), two HIV-1 variants
with different envelope glycoproteins, to replicate efficiently in cells
expressing the CD4 and CXCR4 proteins of the common marmoset, a New World monkey.
The HIV-1(NL4-3) adaptation involves three gp120 changes that result in a
specific increase in affinity for the marmoset CD4 glycoprotein. The already high
affinity of the HIV-1(KB9) envelope glycoproteins for marmoset CD4 did not
significantly change as a result of the adaptation. Instead, changes in the gp120
variable loops and gp41 ectodomain resulted in improved replication in cells
expressing the marmoset receptors. HIV-1(KB9) became relatively sensitive to
neutralization by soluble CD4 and antibodies as a result of the adaptation. These
results demonstrate the distinct mechanistic pathways by which the HIV-1 envelope
glycoproteins can adapt to less-than-optimal CD4 molecules and provide HIV-1
variants that can overcome some of the early blocks in New World monkey cells.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01299-07 
PMCID: PMC2224371
PMID: 17959679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2346. Am J Primatol. 2008 Mar;70(3):294-300.

Orchidectomized (orx) marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model to study the
development of osteopenia/osteoporosis.

Seidlov√°-Wuttke D(1), Schlumbohm C, Jarry H, Dullin C, Wuttke W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Endocrinology, University of
Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.

The common marmoset serves as a primate model for many human diseases.
Hypogonadal and particularly aged men develop osteopenia or osteoporosis. Whether
marmosets develop osteoporosis after orchidectomy is not known. This was tested
in seven young and two older adult male orchidectomy animals using quantitative
computer tomography, which allowed quantification of total surface and density of
the cortex and of the cancellous structures of the metaphysis of the tibia and of
the fifth or sixth lumbal vertebra (L5/L6) before or after orchidectomy (orx),
and 1, 6 and 12 months later. Surrogate parameters of whole skeletal bone
metabolism (osteocalcin, OC) and C-terminal breakdown products (telopeptides) of 
collagen-alpha1 (CrossLaps) were also measured. Male marmosets lost between 5 and
20% of their initial cancellous density in the metaphysis of the tibia and this
was statistically significant 6 months after castration. No loss of cancellous
density was observed in L5/L6 of young marmosets and OC and the CrossLaps in the 
serum were decreased at this time point while a reduction was observed in bone
mineral density of L5/L6 in two aged animals. It is concluded that castration of 
young male marmoset for 1 year results in a significant loss of bone mineral
density in the metaphysis of the tibia resulting in osteopenia but not in the
vertebra. The results indicate that male orx marmosets become osteopenic within
12 months after castration and may be a more human-like experimental model for
bone research.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20493 
PMID: 17948894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

