

2346. Am J Primatol. 2008 Mar;70(3):294-300.

Orchidectomized (orx) marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model to study the
development of osteopenia/osteoporosis.

Seidlov√°-Wuttke D(1), Schlumbohm C, Jarry H, Dullin C, Wuttke W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Endocrinology, University of
Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.

The common marmoset serves as a primate model for many human diseases.
Hypogonadal and particularly aged men develop osteopenia or osteoporosis. Whether
marmosets develop osteoporosis after orchidectomy is not known. This was tested
in seven young and two older adult male orchidectomy animals using quantitative
computer tomography, which allowed quantification of total surface and density of
the cortex and of the cancellous structures of the metaphysis of the tibia and of
the fifth or sixth lumbal vertebra (L5/L6) before or after orchidectomy (orx),
and 1, 6 and 12 months later. Surrogate parameters of whole skeletal bone
metabolism (osteocalcin, OC) and C-terminal breakdown products (telopeptides) of 
collagen-alpha1 (CrossLaps) were also measured. Male marmosets lost between 5 and
20% of their initial cancellous density in the metaphysis of the tibia and this
was statistically significant 6 months after castration. No loss of cancellous
density was observed in L5/L6 of young marmosets and OC and the CrossLaps in the 
serum were decreased at this time point while a reduction was observed in bone
mineral density of L5/L6 in two aged animals. It is concluded that castration of 
young male marmoset for 1 year results in a significant loss of bone mineral
density in the metaphysis of the tibia resulting in osteopenia but not in the
vertebra. The results indicate that male orx marmosets become osteopenic within
12 months after castration and may be a more human-like experimental model for
bone research.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20493 
PMID: 17948894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2347. Virology. 2008 Jan 20;370(2):430-42. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

The Epstein-Barr virus BMRF-2 protein facilitates virus attachment to oral
epithelial cells.

Xiao J(1), Palefsky JM, Herrera R, Berline J, Tugizov SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA
94143-0654, USA.

We previously reported that BMRF-2, an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) glycoprotein,
binds to beta1 family integrins and is important for EBV infection of polarized
oral epithelial cells. To further study the functions of BMRF-2, we constructed a
recombinant EBV that lacks BMRF-2 expression by homologous recombination in B95-8
cells. We found that lack of BMRF-2 resulted in about 50% reduction of EBV
attachment to oral epithelial cells, but not to B lymphocytes, suggesting that
BMRF-2 is critical for EBV infection in oral epithelial cells, but not in B
lymphocytes. In polarized oral epithelial cells, infection rate of the
recombinant EBV virus was about 4- to 8-fold lower than the wild-type B95-8
virus. Cell adhesion assays using the BMRF-2 RGD peptide and its RGE and AAA
mutants showed that the RGD motif is critical for BMRF-2 binding to integrins.
These data are consistent with our previous observation that interactions between
EBV BMRF-2 and integrins are critical for infection of oral epithelial cells with
EBV.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2007.09.012 
PMCID: PMC2268893
PMID: 17945327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

