

2347. Virology. 2008 Jan 20;370(2):430-42. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

The Epstein-Barr virus BMRF-2 protein facilitates virus attachment to oral
epithelial cells.

Xiao J(1), Palefsky JM, Herrera R, Berline J, Tugizov SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA
94143-0654, USA.

We previously reported that BMRF-2, an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) glycoprotein,
binds to beta1 family integrins and is important for EBV infection of polarized
oral epithelial cells. To further study the functions of BMRF-2, we constructed a
recombinant EBV that lacks BMRF-2 expression by homologous recombination in B95-8
cells. We found that lack of BMRF-2 resulted in about 50% reduction of EBV
attachment to oral epithelial cells, but not to B lymphocytes, suggesting that
BMRF-2 is critical for EBV infection in oral epithelial cells, but not in B
lymphocytes. In polarized oral epithelial cells, infection rate of the
recombinant EBV virus was about 4- to 8-fold lower than the wild-type B95-8
virus. Cell adhesion assays using the BMRF-2 RGD peptide and its RGE and AAA
mutants showed that the RGD motif is critical for BMRF-2 binding to integrins.
These data are consistent with our previous observation that interactions between
EBV BMRF-2 and integrins are critical for infection of oral epithelial cells with
EBV.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2007.09.012 
PMCID: PMC2268893
PMID: 17945327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2348. Primates. 2008 Apr;49(2):153-6. Epub 2007 Oct 17.

Tolerated mouth-to-mouth food transfers in common marmosets.

Kasper C(1), Voelkl B, Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Althanstrasse 14, 1090, Vienna, Austria.

In this paper we describe tolerated mouth-to-mouth food transfers in captive
adult common marmosets, where an animal approached a conspecific that has
recently received a piece of food, opened the other's mouth forcefully, and
picked food pieces out of it. Tolerated mouth-to-mouth food transfers occurred
between animals of both sexes. They were observed when the possessor was
subordinate as well as when it was dominant, and in four dyads they were observed
in both directions. We argue that this behaviour might have a social function and
that the cooperative breeding system of marmosets might have facilitated its
evolution.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-007-0069-7 
PMID: 17940727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

