

2348. Primates. 2008 Apr;49(2):153-6. Epub 2007 Oct 17.

Tolerated mouth-to-mouth food transfers in common marmosets.

Kasper C(1), Voelkl B, Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Althanstrasse 14, 1090, Vienna, Austria.

In this paper we describe tolerated mouth-to-mouth food transfers in captive
adult common marmosets, where an animal approached a conspecific that has
recently received a piece of food, opened the other's mouth forcefully, and
picked food pieces out of it. Tolerated mouth-to-mouth food transfers occurred
between animals of both sexes. They were observed when the possessor was
subordinate as well as when it was dominant, and in four dyads they were observed
in both directions. We argue that this behaviour might have a social function and
that the cooperative breeding system of marmosets might have facilitated its
evolution.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-007-0069-7 
PMID: 17940727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2349. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Oct 23;104(43):17169-73. Epub 2007 Oct 16.

Diminished adult neurogenesis in the marmoset brain precedes old age.

Leuner B(1), Kozorovitskiy Y, Gross CG, Gould E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.

With aging there is a decline in the number of newly generated neurons in the
dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. In rodents and tree shrews, this age-related
decrease in neurogenesis is evident long before the animals become aged. No
previous studies have investigated whether primates exhibit a similar decline in 
hippocampal neurogenesis with aging. To investigate this possibility, young to
middle aged adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were injected with BrdU
and perfused 3 weeks later. The number of newly generated cells in the
subgranular zone/granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus was significantly lower 
in older animals and decreased linearly with age. A similar age-related decline
in new cells was observed in the subventricular zone but not in the hilar region 
of the dentate gyrus. These data demonstrate that a substantial decrease in
neurogenesis occurs before the onset of old age in the adult marmoset brain,
suggesting the possibility that similar alterations occur in the human brain.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0708228104 
PMCID: PMC2040400
PMID: 17940008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

