

2349. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Oct 23;104(43):17169-73. Epub 2007 Oct 16.

Diminished adult neurogenesis in the marmoset brain precedes old age.

Leuner B(1), Kozorovitskiy Y, Gross CG, Gould E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.

With aging there is a decline in the number of newly generated neurons in the
dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. In rodents and tree shrews, this age-related
decrease in neurogenesis is evident long before the animals become aged. No
previous studies have investigated whether primates exhibit a similar decline in 
hippocampal neurogenesis with aging. To investigate this possibility, young to
middle aged adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were injected with BrdU
and perfused 3 weeks later. The number of newly generated cells in the
subgranular zone/granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus was significantly lower 
in older animals and decreased linearly with age. A similar age-related decline
in new cells was observed in the subventricular zone but not in the hilar region 
of the dentate gyrus. These data demonstrate that a substantial decrease in
neurogenesis occurs before the onset of old age in the adult marmoset brain,
suggesting the possibility that similar alterations occur in the human brain.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0708228104 
PMCID: PMC2040400
PMID: 17940008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2350. Exp Neurol. 2007 Dec;208(2):177-84. Epub 2007 May 8.

The administration of entacapone prevents L-dopa-induced dyskinesia when added to
dopamine agonist therapy in MPTP-treated primates.

Zubair M(1), Jackson MJ, Tayarani-Binazir K, Stockwell KA, Smith LA, Rose S,
Olanow W, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

More continuous delivery of l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa) achieved by
combination with the catechol-O-methyl transfer (COMT) inhibitor entacapone
reduces the onset of dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets compared with
pulsatile l-dopa regimens. We now investigate whether l-dopa delivery also
influences dyskinesia induction when added to dopamine agonist treatment.
Drug-naive 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride
(MPTP)-treated common marmosets were treated with ropinirole twice daily (BID)
for 14 days which reversed motor disability and increased locomotor activity with
minimal dyskinesia. Ropinirole treatment was continued but some animals also
received l-dopa BID or four times daily (QID) with and without entacapone or
vehicle for a further 16 days. Continuing ropinirole treatment alone maintained a
similar reversal of motor deficits and low levels of dyskinesia for the first 14 
days and the second 16 days. The addition of l-dopa BID or QID without entacapone
produced only a minor further reversal of motor deficits, but significantly
increased the intensity of dyskinesia. In contrast, the addition of l-dopa BID or
QID with entacapone also produced some further improvement in motor function with
the combination of entacapone and l-dopa BID significantly improving motor
disability compared to l-dopa alone, but no further increase in dyskinesia
intensity was observed compared with ropinirole alone treatment. The results show
that combined treatment with l-dopa and entacapone has a marked effect on
dyskinesia induction even when therapy has been introduced with a dopamine
agonist.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2007.05.002 
PMID: 17935716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

