

235. Reproduction. 2020 Dec;160(6):R129-R143. doi: 10.1530/REP-20-0354.

Animal models of human pregnancy and placentation: alternatives to the mouse.

Carter AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular and Renal Research, Institute of Molecular Medicine, University
of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

The mouse is often criticized as a model for pregnancy research as gestation is
short, with much of organ development completed postnatally. There are also
differences in the structure and physiology of the placenta between mouse and
human. This review considers eight alternative models that recently have been
proposed and two established ones that seem underutilized. A promising newcomer
among rodents is the spiny mouse, which has a longer gestation than the mouse
with organogenesis complete at birth. The guinea pig is also recommended both
because it has well-developed neonates and because there is a wealth of
information on pregnancy and placentation in the literature. Several smaller
primates are considered. The mouse lemur has its advocates yet is less suited as 
a model for human pregnancy as its young are altricial, placentation very
different from that of humans, and husbandry requirements not fully assessed. In 
contrast, the common marmoset, a New World monkey, has well-developed neonates
and is kept at many primate centres. Marmoset placenta has some features that
closely resemble human placentation, such as the interhaemal barrier, although it
is uncertain if invasion of the uterine arteries occurs in this species. In
conclusion, pregnancy research would benefit greatly from increased use of
alternative models such as the spiny mouse and common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-20-0354 
PMID: 33112767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. J Neurophysiol. 2020 Dec 1;124(6):1900-1913. doi: 10.1152/jn.00480.2020. Epub
2020 Oct 28.

Whole brain mapping of somatosensory responses in awake marmosets investigated
with ultra-high-field fMRI.

Cl√©ry JC(1), Hori Y(1), Schaeffer DJ(1), Gati JS(1)(2), Pruszynski JA(1)(3),
Everling S(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Medical Biophysics, The University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario, Canada.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small-bodied New World primate that
is becoming an important model to study brain functions. Despite several studies 
exploring the somatosensory system of marmosets, all results have come from
anesthetized animals using invasive techniques and postmortem analyses. Here, we 
demonstrate the feasibility for getting high-quality and reproducible
somatosensory mapping in awake marmosets with functional magnetic resonance
imaging (fMRI). We acquired fMRI sequences in four animals, while they received
tactile stimulation (via air-puffs), delivered to the face, arm, or leg. We found
a topographic body representation with the leg representation in the most medial 
part, the face representation in the most lateral part, and the arm
representation between leg and face representation within areas 3a, 3b, and 1/2. 
A similar sequence from leg to face from caudal to rostral sites was identified
in areas S2 and PV. By generating functional connectivity maps of seeds defined
in the primary and second somatosensory regions, we identified two clusters of
tactile representation within the posterior and midcingulate cortex. However,
unlike humans and macaques, no clear somatotopic maps were observed. At the
subcortical level, we found a somatotopic body representation in the thalamus
and, for the first time in marmosets, in the putamen. These maps have similar
organizations, as those previously found in Old World macaque monkeys and humans,
suggesting that these subcortical somatotopic organizations were already
established before Old and New World primates diverged. Our results show the
first whole brain mapping of somatosensory responses acquired in a noninvasive
way in awake marmosets.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We used somatosensory stimulation
combined with functional MRI (fMRI) in awake marmosets to reveal the topographic 
body representation in areas S1, S2, thalamus, and putamen. We showed the
existence of a body representation organization within the thalamus and the
cingulate cortex by computing functional connectivity maps from seeds defined in 
S1/S2, using resting-state fMRI data. This noninvasive approach will be essential
for chronic studies by guiding invasive recording and manipulation techniques.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00480.2020 
PMID: 33112698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

