

2353. Eur J Immunol. 2007 Nov;37(11):3229-39.

Relevant antibody subsets against MOG recognize conformational epitopes
exclusively exposed in solid-phase ELISA.

Menge T(1), von BÃ¼dingen HC, Lalive PH, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Francisco, Department of Neurology, San Francisco
CA, USA.

A pathogenic role for circulating anti-myelin antibodies is difficult to
establish in multiple sclerosis (MS). Here, we unravel a broad heterogeneity
within the anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) antibodies in humans
and non-human primates, and demonstrate that detection of important epitopes of
MOG within the pathogenic repertoire is exclusively dependent on presentation on 
a solid-phase MOG conformer. Results of ELISA and those of a liquid-phase assay
were compared using a MOG protein with identical sequence but different
conformations. We tested sera from 50 human subjects, plasma of Callithrix
jacchus marmosets known to contain antibodies reactive to either conformational
or linearized MOG, and monoclonal, conformation-dependent anti-MOG antibodies. We
have found no antibody reactivity against the soluble MOG conformer in human
serum, and show that this lack of detection is not due to technical artifacts.
Rather, dominant epitopes of MOG are not displayed in soluble phase, as shown by 
a complete lack of binding of conformation-dependent mAb. In MP4-immune marmosets
that exhibit demyelinating pathology due to spreading of antibody determinants to
myelin-embedded MOG, only ELISA can detect pathogenic circulating anti-MOG
antibodies. Thus, the accurate detection of important subsets of pathogenic
anti-MOG antibodies requires methods in which MOG is displayed similarly to its
natural conformation in myelin.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200737249 
PMID: 17918203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2354. Comp Biochem Physiol B Biochem Mol Biol. 2008 Jan;149(1):74-82. Epub 2007 Aug 30.

Fatty acid composition of wild anthropoid primate milks.

Milligan LA(1), Rapoport SI, Cranfield MR, Dittus W, Glander KE, Oftedal OT,
Power ML, Whittier CA, Bazinet RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064,
USA. lmilliga@ucsc.edu

Fatty acids in milk reflect the interplay between species-specific physiological 
mechanisms and maternal diet. Anthropoid primates (apes, Old and New World
monkeys) vary in patterns of growth and development and dietary strategies. Milk 
fatty acid profiles also are predicted to vary widely. This study investigates
milk fatty acid composition of five wild anthropoids (Alouatta palliata,
Callithrix jacchus, Gorilla beringei beringei, Leontopithecus rosalia, Macaca
sinica) to test the null hypothesis of a generalized anthropoid milk fatty acid
composition. Milk from New and Old World monkeys had significantly more 8:0 and
10:0 than milk from apes. The leaf eating species G. b. beringei and A. paliatta 
had a significantly higher proportion of milk 18:3n-3, a fatty acid found
primarily in plant lipids. Mean percent composition of 22:6n-3 was significantly 
different among monkeys and apes, but was similar to the lowest reported values
for human milk. Mountain gorillas were unique among anthropoids in the high
proportion of milk 20:4n-6. This seems to be unrelated to requirements of a
larger brain and may instead reflect species-specific metabolic processes or an
unknown source of this fatty acid in the mountain gorilla diet.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpb.2007.08.006 
PMID: 17916436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

