

2356. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2007 Dec 15;279(1-2):9-15. Epub 2007 Aug 30.

LHR splicing variants and gene expression in the marmoset monkey.

Michel C(1), Gromoll J, Chandolia R, Luetjens CM, Wistuba J, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
D-48149 Muenster, Germany.

In the marmoset monkey, the LHR type II, lacking exon 10, is the native receptor 
type. We characterised the LHR splicing pattern in marmoset testes and the
adrenals during puberty and in pre- and postpubertal ovaries and quantified mRNA 
LHR expression in the testis. We detected 11 LHR splicing variants expressed at
similar levels and generated by exon skipping and/or usage of cryptic splice
sites. No preferred splicing variant during pubertal maturation was observed in
both sexes. Testicular and adrenal LHR expression levels did not significantly
change with age. However, a significant increase during pubertal maturation for
the serum testosterone/LHR ratio indicated that testosterone secretion increases 
in the presence of constant LHR mRNA expression levels. We conclude that LHR
splicing in the marmoset displays a homogenous pattern and that the main function
of the LHR is established in the testis, reaching its highest efficiency during
pubertal maturation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2007.08.009 
PMID: 17913340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2357. Neurobiol Learn Mem. 2008 May;89(4):604-7. Epub 2007 Sep 29.

Memory for time of training modulates performance on a place conditioning task in
marmosets.

Valentinuzzi VS(1), Neto SP, Carneiro BT, Santana KS, Araújo JF, Ralph MR.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, Universidade Federal de Rio
Grande do Norte, RN, Brazil. vvalentinuzzi@crilar-conicet.com.ar

In rodents, the expression of a reward-conditioned place preference (CPP) is
regulated in a circadian pattern such that the preference is exhibited strongly
at the circadian time of prior training but not at other circadian times. Because
each animal is trained only at a single circadian phase, the concept of time as a
context cue is derived from a rhythmic internal state rather than learned
explicitly from the external cues. We now report that the same "time memory" is
expressed following context conditioning in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). Animals were trained at a specific time to discriminate between an
unpaired context and a context paired with food reward. Marmosets were then
tested for preference at circadian times that were either the same or different
from the training time. Preference was expressed only when training and testing
times matched. The results show that time of day learning can be generalized to
this new world primate implying that a similar circadian mechanism might regulate
craving for reward in diverse mammals including human beings.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nlm.2007.08.002 
PMID: 17904878  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

