

2358. Neurobiol Aging. 2009 May;30(5):697-716. Epub 2007 Sep 27.

Age-related accumulation of Reelin in amyloid-like deposits.

Knuesel I(1), Nyffeler M, Morm√®de C, Muhia M, Meyer U, Pietropaolo S, Yee BK,
Pryce CR, LaFerla FM, Marighetto A, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. knuesel@pharma.uzh.ch

Accumulating evidence suggest that alterations in Reelin-mediated signaling may
contribute to neuronal dysfunction associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the 
most common form of senile dementia. However, limited information is available on
the effect of age, the major risk factor of AD, on Reelin expression. Here, we
report that normal aging in rodents and primates is accompanied by accumulation
of Reelin-enriched proteinous aggregates in the hippocampal formation that are
related to the loss of Reelin-expressing neurons. Both phenomena are associated
with age-related memory impairments in wild-type mice. We provide evidence that
normal aging involves loss of Reelin neurons, reduced production and elimination 
of the extracellular deposits, whereas a prenatal immune challenge or the
expression of AD-causing gene products, result in earlier, higher, and more
persistent levels of Reelin-positive deposits. These aggregates co-localize with 
non-fibrillary amyloid-plaques, potentially representing oligomeric Abeta
species. Our findings suggest that elevated Reelin plaque load creates a
precursor condition for senile plaque deposition and may represent a critical
risk factor for sporadic AD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2007.08.011 
PMID: 17904250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2359. Endocrinology. 2008 Jan;149(1):185-92. Epub 2007 Sep 20.

Thrombospondin-1 expression is increased during follicular atresia in the primate
ovary.

Thomas FH(1), Wilson H, Silvestri A, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, University of
Edinburgh Centre for Reproductive Biology, The Queen's Medical Research
Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom.
f.thomas@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Thrombospondin (TSP)-1 is an antiangiogenic extracellular matrix glycoprotein
that modulates several aspects of cellular function. The aim of this study was to
determine the pattern of TSP-1 mRNA and protein expression as well as expression 
of its receptor CD36 in the marmoset ovary and to investigate the effects of
inhibition of gonadotropins or VEGF activity on TSP-1 and CD36 expression in
vivo. GnRH antagonist or VEGF Trap, a soluble decoy receptor, was administered on
d 0 of the follicular phase of the cycle, and ovaries were collected at the end
of the follicular phase (d 10). TSP-1 mRNA and protein were present in granulosa 
cells of preantral and antral follicles, with the highest staining at the late
secondary and tertiary stages. Moreover, expression of TSP-1 mRNA and protein was
significantly increased in tertiary follicles undergoing atresia. CD36 protein
was detected in granulosa cells of preantral and antral follicles as well as in
endothelial cells of large vessels. Inhibition of gonadotropin secretion or VEGF 
activity had no effect on TSP-1 expression; however, expression of CD36 protein
was inhibited by the VEGF Trap. In conclusion, TSP-1 may be involved in the
cessation of angiogenesis in follicles undergoing atresia; alternatively, TSP-1
may act on granulosa and/or endothelial cells to promote follicular atresia in
the ovary. Angiogenesis is likely to involve a balance between pro- and
antiangiogenic factors. Our results suggest that loss of VEGF activity does not
regulate TSP-1 expression directly but may influence TSP-1 activity via
down-regulation of the CD36 receptor.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2007-0835 
PMID: 17884943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

