

2360. Nihon Shinkei Seishin Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2007 Aug;27(4):161-6.

Microarray analysis of laser capture microdissected substantia nigra pars
compacta after a single administration of MPTP in common marmosets.

Iwata S(1), Nomoto M, Miyata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical
and Dental Sciences, 8-35-1 Sakuragaoka, Kagoshima, 890-8544 Japan.
shinichi@m.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

Gene expression profiling was performed in the laser capture microdissected
substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) after a single administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in common marmosets. RNA from
substantia nigra pars compacta tissue underwent a double linear amplification and
was then applied to a whole human genome oligo microarray. Since the number of
TH-immunoreactive cells in the SNc decreased to 50% of that in the control after 
14 days and since our previous study showed that down-regulation of mRNA levels
precedes cell death, genes for which mRNA levels were below 50% of levels in the 
vehicle-treated control throughout the experimental period were defined as being 
vulnerable to MPTP in the present study. There were 48 genes that satisfied this 
condition. In order to elucidate mechanisms of dopaminergic cell death in
Parkinson's disease, extensive gene expression studies at various time points
after MPTP and with various MPTP doses are required.


PMID: 17879594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2361. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2008 Jan;195(4):509-16. Epub 2007 Sep 19.

Neurobehavioral protection by single dose l-deprenyl against MPTP-induced
parkinsonism in common marmosets.

Ando K(1), Maeda J, Inaji M, Okauchi T, Obayashi S, Higuchi M, Suhara T, Tanioka 
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marmoset Research, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
1430 Nogawa, Miyamaeku, Kawasaki 216-0001, Japan. ando@ciea.or.jp

OBJECTIVE: Establishment of preclinical method evaluating behavioral protective
actions of drugs for Parkinson's disease was attempted using l-deprenyl (DEP) as 
a reference drug in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated common marmosets.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifteen marmosets received MPTP at 2 mg/kg, subcutaneously
(s.c.) per day for three consecutive days. To these marmosets, intragastric
(i.g.) administration of DEP at 10 mg/kg was pretreated 2 h before each MPTP
administration in DEP3 group and pretreated only in the first MPTP administration
day in DEP1 group. As a control, distilled water (DW) was pretreated before each 
MPTP administration (n = 5 for each of three groups).
RESULTS: In DW group, decreased daily activity counts and increased dysfunction
scores were persistently observed for 3 weeks after MPTP. In DEP groups, the
similar changes of both levels to those in DW group were temporally observed
after MPTP for several days and then the values recovered to the pre-MPTP levels.
The results of autoradiography performed after above behavioral observations
indicated that markedly lower bindings of [(11)C]PE2I (ligand for dopamine
transporters) were observed at the striatum of DW group marmoset as compared with
the striatum of additionally prepared MPTP-free marmoset (n = 5). The bindings in
DEP groups were almost the same as in the MPTP-free marmoset brains.
CONCLUSION: The present preclinical methods using continuous recording of
activity of marmosets in their living cages and autoradiography using dopamine
transporter ligand might be sensitive for detecting protective actions of drugs
for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-007-0929-2 
PMID: 17879087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

