

2364. J Med Chem. 2007 Oct 4;50(20):4832-44. Epub 2007 Sep 8.

Structural modification of the P2' position of 2,7-dialkyl-substituted
5(S)-amino-4(S)-hydroxy-8-phenyl-octanecarboxamides: the discovery of aliskiren, 
a potent nonpeptide human renin inhibitor active after once daily dosing in
marmosets.

Maibaum J(1), Stutz S, Göschke R, Rigollier P, Yamaguchi Y, Cumin F, Rahuel J,
Baum HP, Cohen NC, Schnell CR, Fuhrer W, Gruetter MG, Schilling W, Wood JM.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, NOVARTIS Pharma AG, WKL-136.683, 
CH-4002 Basel, Switzerland. juergen_klaus.maibaum@novartis.com

Due to its function in the rate limiting initial step of the renin-angiotensin
system, renin is a particularly promising target for drugs designed to control
hypertension, a growing risk to health worldwide. Despite vast efforts over more 
than two decades, no orally efficacious renin inhibitor had reached the market.
As a result of a structure-based topological design approach, we have identified 
a novel class of small-molecule inhibitors with good oral blood-pressure lowering
effects in primates. Further lead optimization aimed for improvement of in vivo
potency and duration of action, mainly by P2' modifications at the
hydroxyethylene transition-state isostere. These efforts resulted in the
discovery of aliskiren (46, CGP060536B, SPP100), a highly potent, selective
inhibitor of renin, demonstrating excellent efficacy in sodium-depleted marmosets
after oral administration, with sustained duration of action in reducing
dose-dependently mean arterial blood pressure. Aliskiren has recently received
regulatory approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1021/jm070316i 
PMID: 17824680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2365. J Med Chem. 2007 Oct 4;50(20):4818-31. Epub 2007 Sep 8.

Novel 2,7-dialkyl-substituted 5(S)-amino-4(S)-hydroxy-8-phenyl-octanecarboxamide 
transition state peptidomimetics are potent and orally active inhibitors of human
renin.

Göschke R(1), Stutz S, Rasetti V, Cohen NC, Rahuel J, Rigollier P, Baum HP,
Forgiarini P, Schnell CR, Wagner T, Gruetter MG, Fuhrer W, Schilling W, Cumin F, 
Wood JM, Maibaum J.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, NOVARTIS Pharma AG, CH-4002
Basel, Switzerland.

The action of renin is the rate-limiting step of the renin-angiotensin system
(RAS), a key regulator of blood pressure. Effective renin inhibitors directly
block the RAS entirely at source and, thus, may provide a vital weapon for
hypertension therapy. Our efforts toward identifying novel small-molecule
peptidomimetic renin inhibitors have resulted in the design of transition-state
isosteres such as 1 bearing an all-carbon 8-phenyl-octanecarboxamide framework.
Optimization of the extended P3 portion of 1 and extensive P2' modifications
provided analogues with improved in vitro potencies in the presence of plasma.
X-ray resolution of rh-renin/38a in the course of SAR work surprisingly unveiled 
the exploitation of a previously unexplored pocket (S3sp) important for strong
binding affinities. Several inhibitors demonstrated oral efficacy in
sodium-depleted marmosets. The most potent, 38a, induced dose-dependently a
pronounced reduction in mean arterial blood pressure, paralleled by complete
blockade of active plasma renin, up to 8 h post-dose. Oral bioavailability of 38a
was 16% in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1021/jm070314y 
PMID: 17824679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

