

2365. J Med Chem. 2007 Oct 4;50(20):4818-31. Epub 2007 Sep 8.

Novel 2,7-dialkyl-substituted 5(S)-amino-4(S)-hydroxy-8-phenyl-octanecarboxamide 
transition state peptidomimetics are potent and orally active inhibitors of human
renin.

GÃ¶schke R(1), Stutz S, Rasetti V, Cohen NC, Rahuel J, Rigollier P, Baum HP,
Forgiarini P, Schnell CR, Wagner T, Gruetter MG, Fuhrer W, Schilling W, Cumin F, 
Wood JM, Maibaum J.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, NOVARTIS Pharma AG, CH-4002
Basel, Switzerland.

The action of renin is the rate-limiting step of the renin-angiotensin system
(RAS), a key regulator of blood pressure. Effective renin inhibitors directly
block the RAS entirely at source and, thus, may provide a vital weapon for
hypertension therapy. Our efforts toward identifying novel small-molecule
peptidomimetic renin inhibitors have resulted in the design of transition-state
isosteres such as 1 bearing an all-carbon 8-phenyl-octanecarboxamide framework.
Optimization of the extended P3 portion of 1 and extensive P2' modifications
provided analogues with improved in vitro potencies in the presence of plasma.
X-ray resolution of rh-renin/38a in the course of SAR work surprisingly unveiled 
the exploitation of a previously unexplored pocket (S3sp) important for strong
binding affinities. Several inhibitors demonstrated oral efficacy in
sodium-depleted marmosets. The most potent, 38a, induced dose-dependently a
pronounced reduction in mean arterial blood pressure, paralleled by complete
blockade of active plasma renin, up to 8 h post-dose. Oral bioavailability of 38a
was 16% in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1021/jm070314y 
PMID: 17824679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2366. Mol Hum Reprod. 2007 Oct;13(10):729-36. Epub 2007 Sep 5.

Effects of inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor at time of selection 
on follicular angiogenesis, expansion, development and atresia in the marmoset.

Taylor PD(1), Wilson H, Hillier SG, Wiegand SJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, University of Edinburgh, The Queen's Medical Research
Institute, Edinburgh, UK.

This study determined the effects of inhibiting vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) at follicle selection. Marmosets were given an injection of VEGF
antagonist, the VEGF Trap on Day 5 of the follicular phase and ovaries were
evaluated on Day 10 or 15. Ovaries from controls were assessed on Day 5 (time of 
selection), Day 10 (peri-ovulatory) and Day 15 (luteal phase). At Day 10, ovaries
of four of the five controls contained dominant follicles, while one had
ovulated. VEGF Trap-treated ovaries also contained large follicles on Day 10, but
VEGF inhibition had suppressed endothelial cell proliferation, leading to
reductions in the thecal vascularization and plasma estradiol relative to
controls. By Day 15, ovaries of controls contained active corpora lutea whereas
ovaries of four of the five treated animals still contained large antral
follicles similar in size to pre-ovulatory follicles, and one had small,
avascular corpora lutea. However, these follicles had a restricted vasculature,
increased incidence of activated caspase-3 staining and morphological features
indicating they would become degenerative non-functional cysts. These results
show that after follicle selection, VEGF is essential for angiogenesis and the
generation of healthy ovulatory follicles and corpora lutea, but fluid
accumulation can still occur in selected follicles in the absence of VEGF.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gam056 
PMID: 17804434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

