

2370. J Comp Psychol. 2007 Aug;121(3):332-44.

Activity of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in limited spaces: hand
movement characteristics.

Przybyszewski AW(1), Sosale S, Chaudhuri A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, McGill University, Montreal, PQ, Canada.
przy@ego.psych.mcgill.ca

The increasing popularity of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) in anatomical,
behavioral, and electrophysiological studies has called for a detailed analysis
of their natural behavior within limited spaces. In the present study, the
authors analyzed hand movements during horizontal and vertical progressions in a 
cylinder. The trajectory of each hand covered the entire cylinder floor during
horizontal progressions and the entire cylinder wall during vertical
progressions. Different marmosets have different patterns of hand movement. The
average maximum angle of hand movements for all marmosets during horizontal and
vertical progressions oscillates, although the average over time is constant and 
similar for both hands, whereas head movements during horizontal progressions
become smaller with successive progressions. Another observed difference between 
rats and monkeys was in the size of head and hand movements at the beginning of
each experimental session. During the 1st horizontal progression, all marmosets
moved their heads to a greater extent than their hands. This sequential head and 
hand movement is referred as bistable behavior. The bistable pattern of motor
behavior, which was also observed in successive progressions, may be derived from
an inherent fear of predators or exploratory interest of a novel environment.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.121.3.332 
PMID: 17696659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2371. Sci Am. 2007 Jul;297(1):30.

All in the family. Paternity shocker: marmoset twins pass on each other's genes.

Soares C.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0707-30 
PMID: 17695836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

