

2372. J Mol Endocrinol. 2007 Aug;39(2):91-104.

Gene structure and promoter functional analysis of the marmoset type II GnRH
receptor.

Faurholm B(1), Cochrane S, Millar RR, Katz AA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/UCT Research Group for Receptor Biology, Institute of Infectious Disease
and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, Cape
Town, Observatory 7925, South Africa.

The marmoset type II GnRH receptor (GnRH-R) gene has the same structure and
genomic organisation as the human and other type II GnRH-R genes. The gene
consists of three exons and two introns and overlaps in the antisense orientation
on its 5' end with peroxisomal membrane protein 11beta and on its 3' end with the
RNA-binding motif protein 8A. However, these genes occur only at one locus in the
marmoset genome, while in the human at two loci. Employing 5' rapid amplification
of cDNA ends demonstrated that the marmoset type II GnRH-R gene has two
transcriptional start sites at -341 and -567 nucleotides relative to the
translational start codon and both start sites lack TATA and CAAT consensus
sequences. A luciferase reporter construct with a 2.3 kb 5' flanking region of
the type II GnRH-R gene was active in a wide variety of cell lines tested,
consistent with the wide tissue expression of the receptor. Progressive 5' and 3'
deletions were employed to identify sequences required for basal expression of
the type II GnRH-R gene. This analysis identified negative regulatory elements in
the regions -2342/-1995, -1679/-1084 and -458/-1 and positive regulatory elements
in the regions -1995/-1679, -1084/-458 and -458/-1 relative to the translational 
start site. The strongest of the positive regions located between -766/-665 has
enhancer activity when cloned in front of a heterologous minimal promoter and is 
critical for basal expression of the type II GnRH-R.

DOI: 10.1677/JME-06-0064 
PMID: 17693609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2373. J Comp Neurol. 2007 Oct 1;504(4):427-39.

Molecular, cellular, and functional characterizations of pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating polypeptide and its receptors in the cerebellum of New and Old
World monkeys.

Aubert N(1), Basille M, Falluel-Morel A, Vaudry D, Bucharles C, Jolivel V, Fisch 
C, De Jouffrey S, Le Bigot JF, Fournier A, Vaudry H, Gonzalez BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) U413,
Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neuroendocrinology, European Institute for
Peptide Research (IFRMP 23), University of Rouen, 76821 Mont-Saint-Aignan,
France.

The neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP)
exerts trophic activities during cerebellar development, and a neuroprotective
effect of PACAP has been demonstrated in pathological conditions such as stroke. 
However, all these data have been obtained in rodents, and neuroprotective
effects of PACAP in primates remain unknown. Because of their evolutionary
relationships with humans, monkeys represent powerful models for validating the
therapeutic interest in PACAP. The objective of the present study was to
characterize PACAP and its receptors in the cerebellum of two nonhuman primates. 
RT-PCR and in situ hybridization experiments revealed that PACAP is expressed in 
the cerebellum by Purkinje cells. Via immunohistochemistry, PACAP was detected in
Purkinje cells and radial glial fibers. With regard to PACAP receptors, PAC1-R
and VPAC1-R were detected by RT-PCR. In situ hybridization revealed a strong
expression of PAC1-R and VPAC1-R in the granule cell layer (GCL), and VPAC1-R was
also expressed in the Purkinje cell layer. A high density of PACAP binding sites 
was visualized in the GCL and the Purkinje cell layer. Competition studies
indicated that, in the GCL, PACAP induced complete displacement of
[(125)I]PACAP27 binding, whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) was a
weak competitor. In contrast, in the Purkinje cell layer, both PACAP and VIP
displaced [(125)I]PACAP27 binding. Measurement of cAMP levels showed that PACAP
is a powerful activator of adenylyl cyclase, whereas VIP is about 100-fold less
potent. Altogether, these observations constitute the first demonstration of a
functional PACAPergic system in monkey cerebellum. They strongly suggest that
neuroprotective effects of PACAP can be transposed to primates, including human.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21451 
PMID: 17663433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

