

2377. Biol Reprod. 2007 Nov;77(5):754-64. Epub 2007 Jul 18.

Dynamic regulation of histone H3 methylation at lysine 4 in mammalian
spermatogenesis.

Godmann M(1), Auger V, Ferraroni-Aguiar V, Di Sauro A, Sette C, Behr R, Kimmins
S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H9X 
3V9.

Spermatogenesis is a highly complex cell differentiation process that is governed
by unique transcriptional regulation and massive chromatin alterations, which are
required for meiosis and postmeiotic maturation. The underlying mechanisms
involve alterations to the epigenetic layer, including histone modifications and 
incorporation of testis-specific nuclear proteins, such as histone variants and
protamines. Histones can undergo methylation, acetylation, and phosphorylation
among other modifications at their N-terminus, and these modifications can signal
changes in chromatin structure. We have identified the temporal and spatial
distributions of histone H3 mono-, di-, and trimethylation at lysine 4 (K4), and 
the lysine-specific histone demethylase AOF2 (amine oxidase flavin-containing
domain 2, previously known as LSD1) during mammalian spermatogenesis. Our results
reveal tightly regulated distributions of H3-K4 methylation and AOF2, and that
H3-K4 methylation is very similar between the mouse and the marmoset. The AOF2
protein levels were found to be higher in the testes than in the somatic tissues.
The distribution of AOF2 matched the cell- and stage-specific patterns of H3-K4
methylation. Interaction studies revealed unique epigenetic regulatory complexes 
associated with H3-K4 methylation in the testis, including the association of
AOF2 and methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 2 (MBD2a/b) in a complex with histone 
deacetylase 1 (HDAC1). These studies enhance our understanding of epigenetic
modifications and their roles in chromatin organization during male germ cell
differentiation in both normal and pathologic states.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.107.062265 
PMID: 17634443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2378. J Infect Dis. 2007 Aug 15;196(4):541-9. Epub 2007 Jun 29.

Measles virus vaccine attenuation: suboptimal infection of lymphatic tissue and
tropism alteration.

Condack C(1), Grivel JC, Devaux P, Margolis L, Cattaneo R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biophysics, National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

The mechanisms of measles virus (MV) vaccine attenuation are insufficiently
characterized. Because the Edmonston vaccine strain can enter cells through CD46 
in addition to the primary MV receptor signaling lymphocyte activation molecule
(SLAM or CD150), we asked whether and how its tropism is altered. In human
tonsillar tissue, this vaccine strain infects naive (CD45RA(+)CD62L(+)) T
lymphocytes, which express SLAM very infrequently, with much higher efficiency
than do wild-type strains. By contrast, it infects B lymphocytes, macrophages,
and NK cells with significantly lower efficiencies than those of wild-type
strains. Infection levels by wild-type strains correlate with the frequency of
SLAM expression and are highest in B cells, which are 40%-55% infected.
SLAM-expressing T cells are more readily infected by all MV strains than are
SLAM-expressing B cells. Thus, vaccine attenuation may be caused by tropism
alteration in combination with suboptimal replication.

DOI: 10.1086/519689 
PMID: 17624839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

