

2378. J Infect Dis. 2007 Aug 15;196(4):541-9. Epub 2007 Jun 29.

Measles virus vaccine attenuation: suboptimal infection of lymphatic tissue and
tropism alteration.

Condack C(1), Grivel JC, Devaux P, Margolis L, Cattaneo R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Biophysics, National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

The mechanisms of measles virus (MV) vaccine attenuation are insufficiently
characterized. Because the Edmonston vaccine strain can enter cells through CD46 
in addition to the primary MV receptor signaling lymphocyte activation molecule
(SLAM or CD150), we asked whether and how its tropism is altered. In human
tonsillar tissue, this vaccine strain infects naive (CD45RA(+)CD62L(+)) T
lymphocytes, which express SLAM very infrequently, with much higher efficiency
than do wild-type strains. By contrast, it infects B lymphocytes, macrophages,
and NK cells with significantly lower efficiencies than those of wild-type
strains. Infection levels by wild-type strains correlate with the frequency of
SLAM expression and are highest in B cells, which are 40%-55% infected.
SLAM-expressing T cells are more readily infected by all MV strains than are
SLAM-expressing B cells. Thus, vaccine attenuation may be caused by tropism
alteration in combination with suboptimal replication.

DOI: 10.1086/519689 
PMID: 17624839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2379. J Gen Virol. 2007 Aug;88(Pt 8):2129-2136. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.82949-0.

Compatibility of the gH homologues of Epstein-Barr virus and related
lymphocryptoviruses.

Wu L(1), Hutt-Fletcher LM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Center for Molecular and Tumor
Virology and Feist-Weiller Cancer Center, Louisiana State University Health
Sciences Center, Shreveport, USA.

Glycoprotein gH, together with its chaperone gL and a third glycoprotein gB, is
essential for cell-cell fusion and virus-cell fusion mediated by herpesviruses.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), the prototype human lymphocryptovirus, requires a
fourth glycoprotein gp42 to support fusion with B cells in addition to epithelial
cells. Two other lymphocryptoviruses, the rhesus lymphocryptovirus (Rh-LCV) and
the common marmoset lymphocryptovirus (CalHV3), have been sequenced in their
entirety and each has a gp42 homologue. Combinations of proteins from EBV, Rh-LCV
and CalHV3 were able to mediate fusion of epithelial cells, but, even when
complexed with EBV gp42, only Rh-LCV and not CalHV3 proteins were able to mediate
fusion with human B cells. CalHV3 gL was also unable to function effectively as a
chaperone for EBV or Rh-LCV gH. The Rh-LCV gH homologue supported more fusion
than EBV gH with an epithelial cell and supported the highest levels of fusion
with a B cell. Chimeric constructs made from Rh-LCV gH and EBV gH that have 85.4 
% sequence identity should prove useful for mapping the regions of gH that are of
importance to fusion as a whole and to B-cell fusion in particular.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.82949-0 
PMCID: PMC2396492
PMID: 17622614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

