

2379. J Gen Virol. 2007 Aug;88(Pt 8):2129-2136. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.82949-0.

Compatibility of the gH homologues of Epstein-Barr virus and related
lymphocryptoviruses.

Wu L(1), Hutt-Fletcher LM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Center for Molecular and Tumor
Virology and Feist-Weiller Cancer Center, Louisiana State University Health
Sciences Center, Shreveport, USA.

Glycoprotein gH, together with its chaperone gL and a third glycoprotein gB, is
essential for cell-cell fusion and virus-cell fusion mediated by herpesviruses.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), the prototype human lymphocryptovirus, requires a
fourth glycoprotein gp42 to support fusion with B cells in addition to epithelial
cells. Two other lymphocryptoviruses, the rhesus lymphocryptovirus (Rh-LCV) and
the common marmoset lymphocryptovirus (CalHV3), have been sequenced in their
entirety and each has a gp42 homologue. Combinations of proteins from EBV, Rh-LCV
and CalHV3 were able to mediate fusion of epithelial cells, but, even when
complexed with EBV gp42, only Rh-LCV and not CalHV3 proteins were able to mediate
fusion with human B cells. CalHV3 gL was also unable to function effectively as a
chaperone for EBV or Rh-LCV gH. The Rh-LCV gH homologue supported more fusion
than EBV gH with an epithelial cell and supported the highest levels of fusion
with a B cell. Chimeric constructs made from Rh-LCV gH and EBV gH that have 85.4 
% sequence identity should prove useful for mapping the regions of gH that are of
importance to fusion as a whole and to B-cell fusion in particular.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.82949-0 
PMCID: PMC2396492
PMID: 17622614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2380. PLoS One. 2007 Jul 11;2(7):e611.

Imitation as faithful copying of a novel technique in marmoset monkeys.

Voelkl B(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria.

Imitative learning has received great attention due to its supposed role in the
development of culture and the cognitive demands it poses on the individual.
Evidence for imitation in non-human primate species, therefore, could shed light 
on the early origins of proto-cultural traits in the primate order. Imitation has
been defined as the learning of an act by seeing it done or, more specifically,
as the copying of a novel or otherwise improbable act. But despite a century of
research and the detection of mirror neurons the empirical basis for this most
advanced form of observational learning is weak. Few, if any, studies have shown 
that the observer has learned the response topography, i.e., the specific action 
by which the response is made. In an experimental set-up we confronted marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with a conspecific model that was previously trained
to open a plastic box in a peculiar way. Employing detailed motion analyses we
show that the observers precisely copied the movement patterns of the novel
action demonstrated by the model. A discriminant analysis classified 13 out of 14
observer movements (92.86%) as model movements and only one as non-observer
movement. This evidence of imitation in non-human primates questions the dominant
opinion that imitation is a human-specific ability. Furthermore, the high
matching degree suggests that marmosets possess the neuronal mechanism to code
the actions of others and to map them onto their own motor repertoire, rather
than priming existing motor-templates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000611 
PMCID: PMC1905941
PMID: 17622356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

