

2386. Gene. 2007 Sep 15;399(2):105-11. Epub 2007 May 22.

Phylogenetic conservation of the androgen receptor AR45 variant form in placental
mammals.

Weiss B(1), Faus H, Haendler B.

Author information: 
(1)Target Discovery, Bayer Schering Pharma AG, D-13342 Berlin, Germany.

A cDNA coding for a tissue-specific AR45 variant form of the androgen receptor
(AR) has recently been identified in humans, with highest expression levels found
in heart. The deduced protein comprises the DNA-binding domain, hinge region and 
ligand-binding domain of the AR, but not the N-terminal domain which is replaced 
by a unique, short, seven amino-acid-long stretch. This sequence is encoded by
the mutually exclusive exon 1B, located between exons 1 and 2 of the human AR
gene. As transcript variants of the steroid receptor family have been shown to
have important implications for hormone function, we set out to analyse the
genomes of different organisms for potential AR45 expression. We found exon 1B to
be conserved in the syntenic chromosomal region of non-human primates such as the
chimpanzee Pan troglodytes, the orang-utan Pongo pygmaeus, the macaque Macaca
mulatta and the marmoset Callithrix jacchus, and of the elephant Loxondonta
africana, the pig Sus scrofa and the dog Canis familiaris. Quantification of AR45
transcript levels in heart, skeletal muscle and lung of Macaca fascicularis
showed the heart to be the main organ of expression. A complete AR45 cDNA was
furthermore isolated from the heart of this species. Comparative analysis of the 
identified AR45 exon 1B regions and of the deduced amino acids revealed a high
conservation among species. The four N-terminal residues were identical in all
eight species, whereas a few changes were seen in the other three residues in the
marmoset, elephant and pig. In contrast, we observed more divergence in the mouse
Mus musculus and rat Rattus norvegicus syntenic regions. Here a stop codon was
found downstream of the potential start codon in the putatively deduced protein
sequence and it can be inferred that no protein corresponding to AR45 exists in
these two species. The existence of AR45 in different placental mammals with the 
exception of mouse and rat suggests a disappearance in rodents late in evolution,
before the separation of the mouse and rat lineages, about 16 million years ago. 
In view of the potential function of AR45 as a regulator of AR function, and
considering the multiple roles of androgens in normal physiology and in several
diseases, these findings have important implications with regard to subtle
differences in the action of the male sexual hormone in various organisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2007.04.037 
PMID: 17574777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2387. J Immunol. 2007 Jun 1;178(11):7151-61.

Genomics and diversity of the common marmoset monkey NK complex.

Averdam A(1), Kuhl H, Sontag M, Becker T, Hughes AL, Reinhardt R, Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Primate Genetics, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that is
increasingly used in biomedical research as a model organism. Due to the
occurrence of natural bone marrow chimerism, it represents a particularly useful 
primate model in immunological research. In this study, we describe the genomic
organization of the CD94, NKG2, and LY49L genes in the NK complex (NKC) of the
common marmoset based on complete sequencing of a bacterial artificial chromosome
clonal contig. This region of the marmoset NKC is 1.5 times smaller than its
human counterpart, but the genes are colinear and orthologous. One exception is
the activating NKG2CE gene, which is probably an ancestral form of the NKG2C- and
NKG2E-activating receptor genes of humans and great apes. The two completely
sequenced marmoset bacterial artificial chromosome clones are derived from
distinct haplotypes, which differ by 200 sites in the overlapping sequence.
Analyses of NKC genes in nine additional marmoset individuals revealed a moderate
degree of polymorphism of the CD94, NKG2A, NKG2CE, and NKG2D genes. Furthermore, 
expression analyses identified several alternatively spliced transcripts,
particularly of the CD94 gene. Several products of alternative splicing of NKC
genes are highly conserved among primates. Alternative transcriptional start
sites were found, but these probably do not lead to a change of the translational
start site or result in longer or shorter cytoplasmic regions of these type II
membrane receptors.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.178.11.7151 
PMID: 17513764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

