

2389. Mol Endocrinol. 2007 Aug;21(8):1984-96. Epub 2007 May 15.

Genomic checkpoints for exon 10 usage in the luteinizing hormone receptor type 1 
and type 2.

Gromoll J(1), Lahrmann L, Godmann M, Müller T, Michel C, Stamm S, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital, D-48129 Münster,
Germany. Joerg.Gromoll@ukmuenster.de

Alternative splicing is a hallmark of glycoprotein hormone receptor gene
regulation, but its molecular mechanism is unknown. The LH receptor (LHR) gene
possesses 11 exons, but exon 10 is constitutively skipped in the New World monkey
lineage (LHR type 2), whereas it is constitutively spliced in the human (LHR type
1). This study identifies the regulatory elements of exon 10 usage. Sequencing of
genomic marmoset DNA revealed that the cryptic LHR exon 10 is highly homologous
to exon 10 from other species and displays intact splice sites. Functional
studies using a minigene approach excluded the contribution of intronic,
marmoset-specific long interspersed nucleotide-1 elements to exon 10 skipping.
Sequencing of the genomic regions surrounding exon 10 from several primate
lineages, sequence comparisons including the human and mouse LHR gene, revealed
the presence of unique nucleotides at 3'-intronic position -19 and -10 and at
position +26 within exon 10 of the marmoset LHR. Exon trap experiments and in
vitro mutagenesis of these nucleotides resulted in the identification of a
composite regulatory element of splicing consisting of cis-acting elements
represented by two polypyrimidine tracts and a trans-acting element within exon
10, which affect the secondary RNA structure. Changes within this complex
resulted either in constitutive exon inclusion, constitutive skipping, or
alternative splicing of exon 10. This work delineates the molecular pathway
leading to intronization of exon 10 in the LHR type 2 and reveals, for the first 
time, the essential function of regulatory and structural elements involved in
glycoprotein hormone receptor splicing.

DOI: 10.1210/me.2006-0506 
PMID: 17505059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2390. Am J Primatol. 2007 Dec;69(12):1399-411.

Paracellular nutrient absorption in a gum-feeding new world primate, the common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

McWhorter TJ(1), Karasov WH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Wildlife Ecology, 226 Russell Labs, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 1630 Linden Drive, Madison, WI, USA.
T.McWhorter@murdoch.edu.au

The common marmoset is one of the few callitrichid species that is not threatened
or endangered in the wild, and is widely used in biomedical research, yet
relatively little is understood about its digestive physiology. Dietary
specialization on plant exudates has lead to relatively reduced small intestines,
yet the common marmoset has exceptional dietary breadth, allowing it to
successfully utilize a variety of habitats. We predicted that passive,
paracellular nutrient absorption would be used by the common marmoset to a
greater extent than in other non-flying mammals. We measured the bioavailability 
and rates of absorption of two metabolically inert carbohydrates not transported 
by mediated pathways (L-rhamnose and cellobiose, molecular masses of 164 and 342,
respectively) to measure paracellular uptake, and of a non-metabolized D-glucose 
analog (3-O-methyl-D-glucose) to measure total uptake by both mediated and
paracellular pathways. We found high bioavailability of 3-O-methyl-D-glucose
(83+/-5%), and much higher bioavailability of the paracellular probes than in
similarly sized non-flying mammals (30+/-3% and 19+/-2% for L-rhamnose and
cellobiose, respectively). Passive, paracellular nutrient absorption accounts for
around 30% of total glucose absorption in common marmosets and intestinal
permeability is significantly higher than in humans, the only other species of
primate measured to date. This may allow the common marmoset to maintain high
digestive efficiency when feeding on higher quality foods (fruit, arthropods,
gums with higher proportions of simple sugars), in spite of relatively reduced
small intestines correlated with adaptations for fermentative digestion of plant 
gums. We find no evidence to support, in primates, the hypothesis that reliance
on paracellular nutrient absorption should increase with body size in mammals,
but suggest instead that it may be associated with small body size and/or
taxon-specific adaptations to diet.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20443 
PMID: 17487879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

