

2391. Neuroreport. 2007 May 28;18(8):741-5.

Central nervous system expression of the exon 9 skipping form of the glutamate
transporter GLAST.

Macnab LT(1), Pow DV.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Newcastle, and HMRI, NSW,
Australia.

We have raised antibodies that selectively recognize an exon 9 skipping form of
GLAST. We demonstrate expression of this protein in brains of rats, cats, monkeys
and humans. Immunolabelling was present in scattered populations of neurons,
particularly in cerebral cortex and colliculi. Neurons were often present in
small clusters and exhibited a range of morphologies, from apparently normal to
highly degenerate. GLAST1b was also expressed by some glial cells. Cortical
neurons expressing the exon 9 skipping form of GLAST also labelled with
antibodies against the C- or N-terminal regions of GLAST. We suggest that
alternate splicing of GLAST by subpopulations of neurons may indicate some
dysfunction in these cells, and may be an indicator of inappropriate local
excitation.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e3280c143b0 
PMID: 17471058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2392. Nat Neurosci. 2007 Jun;10(6):763-71. Epub 2007 Apr 29.

Differential neural coding of acoustic flutter within primate auditory cortex.

Bendor D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 720 Rutland Avenue, Traylor Building
412, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. dbendor@jhu.edu

A sequence of acoustic events is perceived either as one continuous sound or as a
stream of temporally discrete sounds (acoustic flutter), depending on the rate at
which the acoustic events repeat. Acoustic flutter is perceived at repetition
rates near or below the lower limit for perceiving pitch, and is akin to the
discrete percepts of visual flicker and tactile flutter caused by the slow
repetition of sensory stimulation. It has been shown that slowly repeating
acoustic events are represented explicitly by stimulus-synchronized neuronal
firing patterns in primary auditory cortex (AI). Here we show that a second
neural code for acoustic flutter exists in the auditory cortex of marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), in which the firing rate of a neuron is a monotonic
function of an acoustic event's repetition rate. Whereas many neurons in AI
encode acoustic flutter using a dual temporal/rate representation, we find that
neurons in cortical fields rostral to AI predominantly use a monotonic rate code 
and lack stimulus-synchronized discharges. These findings indicate that the
neural representation of acoustic flutter is transformed along the
caudal-to-rostral axis of auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/nn1888 
PMID: 17468752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

