

2396. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2007 Jun;271(2):239-44. Epub 2007 Apr 17.

Helicobacter callitrichis sp. nov., a novel Helicobacter species isolated from
the feces of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Won YS(1), Vandamme P, Yoon JH, Park YH, Hyun BH, Kim HC, Itoh T, Tanioka Y, Choi
YK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul National
University, Seoul, Korea.

A slowly growing microaerophilic Helicobacter species was isolated from the feces
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). This bacterium possessed a pair of
nonsheathed bipolar flagella, was positive for oxidase, catalase and alkaline
phosphatase activities, but was negative for gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase and
urease activity and for nitrate reduction. The bacterium was susceptible to
nalidixic acid and resistant to cephalotine and did not hydrolyze hippurate. On
the basis of phenotypic characteristics, 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis and
whole-cell protein profiles, the isolate represents a new species of the genus
Helicobacter, for which the name Helicobacter callitrichis sp. nov. is proposed; 
the type strain of the new species is R-204(T) (GenBank accession number
AY192526).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6968.2007.00721.x 
PMID: 17439542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2397. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Mar;25(6):1780-92.

Spatial and temporal frequency selectivity of neurons in the middle temporal
visual area of new world monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.

Information about the responses of neurons to the spatial and temporal
frequencies of visual stimuli is important for understanding the types of
computations being performed in different visual areas. We characterized the
spatiotemporal selectivity of neurons in the middle temporal area (MT), which is 
deemed central for the processing of direction and speed of motion. Recordings
obtained in marmoset monkeys using high-contrast sine-wave gratings as stimuli
revealed that the majority of neurons had bandpass spatial and temporal frequency
tuning, and that the selectivity for these parameters was largely separable. Only
in about one-third of the cells was inseparable spatiotemporal tuning detected,
this typically being in the form of an increase in the optimal temporal frequency
as a function of increasing grating spatial frequency. However, most of these
interactions were weak, and only 10% of neurons showed spatial
frequency-invariant representation of speed. Cells with inseparable
spatiotemporal tuning were most commonly found in the infragranular layers,
raising the possibility that they form part of the feedback from MT to caudal
visual areas. While spatial frequency tuning curves were approximately
scale-invariant on a logarithmic scale, temporal frequency tuning curves covering
different portions of the spectrum showed marked and systematic changes. Thus, MT
neurons can be reasonably described as similarly built spatial frequency filters,
each covering a different dynamic range. The small proportion of speed-tuned
neurons, together with the laminar position of these units, are compatible with
the idea that an explicit neural representation of speed emerges from
computations performed in MT.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05453.x 
PMID: 17432965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

