

2399. Invest Clin. 2007 Mar;48(1):57-67.

[Obtention of a heterohybridoma for production of type IgM monoclonal antibodies 
against the D antigen of the Rh system].

[Article in Spanish]

León-González G(1), Cruz C.

Author information: 
(1)Banco Municipal de Sangre del Distrito Capital, Esquina de Pirineos San José, 
Caracas, Venezuela. gonzaleo@cantv.net

The objective was to obtain a heterohybridoma capable of producing a monoclonal
antibody with IgM type anti-D specificity (Rh system), that could be used as a
reactive for hemoclasification. Mononuclear cells (MNC) were extracted from a
blood sample of a highly sensitized woman, five days after giving birth to an Rh 
positive child. These were then transformed with the culture supernatant (CSN) of
B05.8 cells, rich in Epstein Barr virus (EBV). Once transformed and in
exponential growth, they were fused with K6H6/B5 line cells using PEG 4.000 as a 
fusing agent in a 1:1 proportion. After fusion, they were seeded in culture
plates in order to evaluate the formation of hybrids and the secretion of
specific antibodies in the CSN of each well. The efficiency of the fusion was 1.8
x 10(-6), making it possible to obtain an anti-D IgM producing clone, which we
named BMS-9. This clone could be maintained in constant culture for three months,
producing antibodies in a concentration of 4 microg/mL in de CSN. It was also
possible to obtain antibodies with an Artificial Capilar System (ACS) reaching a 
concentration of 24 microg/mL. Potency was determined using Ror cells. In CSN at 
immediate centrifugation (IC): 1 x 32, score 52; 15' from incubation at room
temperature (RT): 1 x 1,024 score 105. With that ACS product at IC: 1 x 32 score 
54; 15' from incubation at RT: 1 x 8.192 score 136; and a 37 degrees C: 1 x 8,192
score 136. Reactivity was detected with red cells D(IIIa), D(IV), D(Va), D(VI)
type IV, D(VII), DFR, DNU, STEM+, DAR and DAU. There was no reactivity with red
cells D(IIIc), DI(Va), D(V) type II, D(VI) types I, II y III, Ro(HAR), DOL and
weak D type II. During field study, no false negative or false positive reactions
were detected. A stable heterohybridoma was obtained, producer of IgM type
anti-D, with enough qualities to be used in blood typing. Given the excellent
qualities of the antibody, we are evaluating dilution media and the addition of
type IgG antibodies in order to manufacture a reactive for use in
hemoclassification.


PMID: 17432544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2400. Environ Health Perspect. 2007 Mar;115(3):390-6. Epub 2006 Dec 19.

Effects of monobutyl and di(n-butyl) phthalate in vitro on steroidogenesis and
Leydig cell aggregation in fetal testis explants from the rat: comparison with
effects in vivo in the fetal rat and neonatal marmoset and in vitro in the human.

Hallmark N(1), Walker M, McKinnell C, Mahood IK, Scott H, Bayne R, Coutts S,
Anderson RA, Greig I, Morris K, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Queen's
Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Certain phthalates can impair Leydig cell distribution and
steroidogenesis in the fetal rat in utero, but it is unknown whether similar
effects might occur in the human.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim in this study was to investigate the effects of di(n-butyl)
phthalate (DBP), or its metabolite monobutyl phthalate (MBP), on testosterone
production and Leydig cell aggregation (LCA) in fetal testis explants from the
rat and human, and to compare the results with in vivo findings for DBP-exposed
rats. We also wanted to determine if DBP/MBP affects testosterone production in
vivo in the neonatal male marmoset.
METHODS: Fetal testis explants obtained from the rat [gestation day (GD)19.5] and
from the human (15-19 weeks of gestation) were cultured for 24-48 hr with or
without human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) or 22R-hydroxycholesterol (22R-OH),
and with or without DBP/MBP. Pregnant rats and neonatal male marmosets were dosed
with 500 mg/kg/day DBP or MBP.
RESULTS: Exposure of rats in utero to DBP (500 mg/kg/day) for 48 hr before GD21.5
induced major suppression of intratesticular testosterone levels and cytochrome
P450 side chain cleavage enzyme (P450scc) expression; this short-term treatment
induced LCA, but was less marked than longer term (GD13.5-20.5) DBP treatment. In
vitro, MBP (10(-3) M) did not affect basal or 22R-OH-stimulated testosterone
production by fetal rat testis explants but slightly attenuated hCG-stimulated
steroidogenesis; MBP induced minor LCA in vitro. None of these parameters were
affected in human fetal testis explants cultured with 10(-3) M MBP for up to 48
hr. Because the in vivo effects of DBP/MBP were not reproduced in vitro in the
rat, the absence of MBP effects in vitro on fetal human testes is inconclusive.
In newborn (Day 2-7) marmosets, administration of a single dose of 500 mg/kg MBP 
significantly (p = 0.019) suppressed blood testosterone levels 5 hr later.
Similar treatment of newborn co-twin male marmosets for 14 days resulted in
increased Leydig cell volume per testis (p = 0.011), compared with co-twin
controls; this is consistent with MBP-induced inhibition of steroidogenesis
followed by compensatory Leydig cell hyperplasia/hypertrophy.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that MBP/DBP suppresses steroidogenesis by
fetal-type Leydig cells in primates as in rodents, but this cannot be studied in 
vitro.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.9490 
PMCID: PMC1849934
PMID: 17431488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

