

2403. J Gen Virol. 2007 May;88(Pt 5):1565-1567. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.82758-0.

A novel monolayer cell line derived from human umbilical cord blood cells shows
high sensitivity to measles virus.

Kobune F(1)(2), Ami Y(3), Katayama M(1), Takahashi M(3), Tuul R(4), Korukluoglu
G(5), Kiyohara T(3), Miura R(2), Sato H(2), Yoneda M(2), Kai C(2).

Author information: 
(1)NPO-Biomedical Science Association, Tokyo 169-0075, Japan.
(2)Laboratory Animal Research Center, Institute of Medical Science, The
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.
(3)National Institute of Infectious Diseases (NIID), Tokyo 190-0011, Japan.
(4)National Center for Communicable Diseases, Ulaanbaatar 48, Mongolia.
(5)National Measles Laboratory, Virology Department, Refik Saydam National
Hygiene Center, Ankara 18-06100, Turkey.

Measles virus (MeV) research is largely dependent on the B95a cell line, which is
derived from marmoset B lymphocytes. As this cell line is persistently infected
with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a novel cell line, COBL-a, was established from
human umbilical cord blood. COBL-a cells have a significant advantage over B95a
cells because they are of human origin, are free from EBV and have higher
sensitivity to wild-type MeV. Thus, COBL-a cells should prove very valuable for
both epidemiological and basic studies of MeV.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.82758-0 
PMID: 17412987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2404. J Physiol. 2007 Jun 15;581(Pt 3):1083-100. Epub 2007 Apr 5.

Linking lateral interactions in flicker perception to lateral geniculate nucleus 
cell responses.

Kozyrev V(1), Silveira LC, Kremers J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of TÃ¼bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany.

The perception of flicker strength in a circular stimulus can be changed by
altering the relative temporal phase of a simultaneously flickering surrounding
annulus: perceived flicker is weak when the two stimuli are modulated in-phase
and strong when the two are modulated in counter-phase. Previously, we found that
responses of single neurons in the monkey lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) to
such stimuli resemble the psychophysical data. On the basis of the resemblance in
data, it was proposed that the physiological basis for the flicker perception may
be present as proximal as the LGN. To strengthen this hypothesis, we simulated
the response of an array of LGN neurons, the receptive fields (RFs) of which are 
covered by the stimulus. The simulations were based upon single-cell recordings
in the LGN of anaesthetized marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) using the same stimuli
as previously. The measurements were repeated for different spatial displacement 
between the stimulus and the RF. The responses depended upon the spatial
displacement and the relative phase between centre and surround stimuli. The
neuronal responses can be adequately described by a difference-of-Gaussians (DOG)
model with a time delay in the RF surround. The model responses at different
displacements can be considered to be identical to the output of an array of
ideal and identical LGN cells with different RF locations. To be able to describe
physiological and psychophysical data, obtained at different stimulus contrasts, 
it was necessary to consider previously described non-linear interactions between
the RF centres and surrounds. We applied a spatial peak-to-trough detector with a
subsequent saturation and threshold to simulate a simple cortical decision
mechanism. The output of this peak-to-trough detector could adequately describe
the psychophysical data.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2007.129486 
PMCID: PMC2170833
PMID: 17412770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

