

2404. J Physiol. 2007 Jun 15;581(Pt 3):1083-100. Epub 2007 Apr 5.

Linking lateral interactions in flicker perception to lateral geniculate nucleus 
cell responses.

Kozyrev V(1), Silveira LC, Kremers J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of TÃ¼bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany.

The perception of flicker strength in a circular stimulus can be changed by
altering the relative temporal phase of a simultaneously flickering surrounding
annulus: perceived flicker is weak when the two stimuli are modulated in-phase
and strong when the two are modulated in counter-phase. Previously, we found that
responses of single neurons in the monkey lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) to
such stimuli resemble the psychophysical data. On the basis of the resemblance in
data, it was proposed that the physiological basis for the flicker perception may
be present as proximal as the LGN. To strengthen this hypothesis, we simulated
the response of an array of LGN neurons, the receptive fields (RFs) of which are 
covered by the stimulus. The simulations were based upon single-cell recordings
in the LGN of anaesthetized marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) using the same stimuli
as previously. The measurements were repeated for different spatial displacement 
between the stimulus and the RF. The responses depended upon the spatial
displacement and the relative phase between centre and surround stimuli. The
neuronal responses can be adequately described by a difference-of-Gaussians (DOG)
model with a time delay in the RF surround. The model responses at different
displacements can be considered to be identical to the output of an array of
ideal and identical LGN cells with different RF locations. To be able to describe
physiological and psychophysical data, obtained at different stimulus contrasts, 
it was necessary to consider previously described non-linear interactions between
the RF centres and surrounds. We applied a spatial peak-to-trough detector with a
subsequent saturation and threshold to simulate a simple cortical decision
mechanism. The output of this peak-to-trough detector could adequately describe
the psychophysical data.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2007.129486 
PMCID: PMC2170833
PMID: 17412770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2405. J Virol. 2007 Jun;81(12):6482-90. Epub 2007 Apr 4.

Lassa virus infection in experimentally infected marmosets: liver pathology and
immunophenotypic alterations in target tissues.

Carrion R Jr(1), Brasky K, Mansfield K, Johnson C, Gonzales M, Ticer A,
Lukashevich I, Tardif S, Patterson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Southwest National Primate Research
Center, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, P.O. Box 760549, San
Antonio, TX 78245-0549, USA.

Lassa virus causes thousands of deaths annually in western Africa and is
considered a potential biological weapon. In an attempt to develop a small
nonhuman primate model of Lassa fever, common marmosets were subcutaneously
inoculated with Lassa virus strain Josiah. This inoculation resulted in a
systemic disease with clinical and morphological features mirroring those in
fatal human Lassa infection: fever, weight loss, high viremia and viral RNA load 
in tissues, elevated liver enzymes, and severe morbidity between days 15 and 20. 
The most prominent histopathology findings included multifocal hepatic necrosis
with mild inflammation and hepatocyte proliferation, lymphoid depletion, and
interstitial nephritis. Cellular aggregates in regions of hepatocellular necrosis
were largely composed of HAM56-positive macrophages, devoid of CD3-positive and
CD20-positive cells, and characterized by marked reductions in the intensity of
HLA-DP, DQ, DR staining. A marked reduction in the major histocompatibility
complex class II expression was also observed in the lymph nodes.
Immunophenotypic alterations in spleen included reductions in overall numbers of 
CD20-positive and CD3-positive cells and the disruption of lymphoid follicular
architecture. These findings identify the common marmoset as an appropriate model
of human Lassa fever and present the first experimental evidence that replication
of Lassa virus in tissues is associated with alterations that would be expected
to impair adaptive immunity.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02876-06 
PMCID: PMC1900113
PMID: 17409137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

