

2412. Mov Disord. 2007 Apr 15;22(5):715-9.

Antiparkinsonian activity of L-propyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide or
melanocyte-inhibiting factor in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Katzenschlager R(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, Stockwell K, Tayarani-Binazir KA, Zubair
M, Smith LA, Jenner P, Lees AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Reta Lila Weston Institute of Neurological Studies, University College London,
UK.

The neuropeptide melanocyte-inhibiting factor (MIF) or
L-propyl-L-leucyl-glycinamide (PLG) has been reported in some studies to improve 
the motor signs of Parkinson's disease (PD) and in rodent models of PD. In this
study of oral and intravenous MIF in N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmosets, a wide range of doses of MIF administered alone (0.25,
1, 2, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg orally) did not increase locomotor activity, relieve motor 
disability, or induce dyskinesias. When MIF (1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg orally or 10 and
20 mg/kg intravenously) was administered concomitantly with levodopa/benserazide,
no significant differences in motor function or dyskinesias were observed
compared with levodopa/benserazide alone. The results of this first study of MIF 
in the marmoset MPTP model provide no encouragement for the reinvestigation of
MIF in the clinical management of the motor signs of PD.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21256 
PMID: 17373723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2413. J Histochem Cytochem. 2007 Jul;55(7):753-62. Epub 2007 Mar 19.

Studies on the expression of 80-kDa human sperm antigen in rat testis and
epididymis.

Khobarekar BG(1), Vernekar VJ, Prabagaran E, Raghavan VP, Bandivdekar AH.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR), JM Street,
Parel, Mumbai, 400 012, India.

The 80-kDa human sperm antigen (HSA) has demonstrated to be a promising candidate
for development of an antifertility vaccine because it is a sperm-specific,
conserved, and immunogenic protein. The present study demonstrates the
androgen-regulated expression of 80-kDa HSA in testis and epididymis of rat by
immunohistochemistry (IHC), using its specific antibodies. Developmental
expression of 80-kDa HSA was investigated on days 10, 20, 40, 60, and 90 of age
in the testis and epididymis by IHC, and relative staining intensity was
estimated by image analysis using BIOVIS software. On days 10 and 20, no
significant staining was observed in the testis and epididymis, whereas it
gradually increased from day 40 onwards. The highest staining was seen on day 90 
in both testis and epididymis. Gradual increase in expression of 80-kDa HSA after
day 40 suggests that it is possibly regulated by androgen. To study the
androgen-regulated expression of 80-kDa, adult male rats were treated with 75
mg/kg body weight of ethylene dimethane sulfonate (EDS), which selectively
destroys Leydig cells and thus induces complete androgen withdrawal. It was
observed that the staining intensity decreased following EDS treatment in rat
testis as well as epididymis, and it was regained after supplementation with
dihydrotestosterone. Increased expression during sexual maturation at the time of
testosterone surge and its regulation by antiandrogen/androgen treatment suggest 
androgen-dependent expression of 80-kDa HSA in rat testis and epididymis.

DOI: 10.1369/jhc.6A7132.2007 
PMID: 17371939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

