

2413. J Histochem Cytochem. 2007 Jul;55(7):753-62. Epub 2007 Mar 19.

Studies on the expression of 80-kDa human sperm antigen in rat testis and
epididymis.

Khobarekar BG(1), Vernekar VJ, Prabagaran E, Raghavan VP, Bandivdekar AH.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR), JM Street,
Parel, Mumbai, 400 012, India.

The 80-kDa human sperm antigen (HSA) has demonstrated to be a promising candidate
for development of an antifertility vaccine because it is a sperm-specific,
conserved, and immunogenic protein. The present study demonstrates the
androgen-regulated expression of 80-kDa HSA in testis and epididymis of rat by
immunohistochemistry (IHC), using its specific antibodies. Developmental
expression of 80-kDa HSA was investigated on days 10, 20, 40, 60, and 90 of age
in the testis and epididymis by IHC, and relative staining intensity was
estimated by image analysis using BIOVIS software. On days 10 and 20, no
significant staining was observed in the testis and epididymis, whereas it
gradually increased from day 40 onwards. The highest staining was seen on day 90 
in both testis and epididymis. Gradual increase in expression of 80-kDa HSA after
day 40 suggests that it is possibly regulated by androgen. To study the
androgen-regulated expression of 80-kDa, adult male rats were treated with 75
mg/kg body weight of ethylene dimethane sulfonate (EDS), which selectively
destroys Leydig cells and thus induces complete androgen withdrawal. It was
observed that the staining intensity decreased following EDS treatment in rat
testis as well as epididymis, and it was regained after supplementation with
dihydrotestosterone. Increased expression during sexual maturation at the time of
testosterone surge and its regulation by antiandrogen/androgen treatment suggest 
androgen-dependent expression of 80-kDa HSA in rat testis and epididymis.

DOI: 10.1369/jhc.6A7132.2007 
PMID: 17371939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2414. J Comp Neurol. 2007 May 20;502(3):442-54.

OFF midget bipolar cells in the retina of the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
express AMPA receptors.

Puller C(1), Haverkamp S, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroanatomy, Max-Planck-Institute for Brain Research, D-60528
Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

Recent studies suggested that different types of OFF bipolar cells express
specific types of ionotropic (AMPA or kainate) glutamate receptors (GluRs) at
their contacts with cone pedicles. However, the question of which GluR type is
expressed by which type of OFF bipolar cell in primate retina is still open. In
this study, the expression of AMPA and kainate receptor subunits at the dendritic
tips of flat (OFF) midget bipolar (FMB) cells was analyzed in the retina of the
common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. We used preembedding electron microscopy and
double immunofluorescence with subunit-specific antibodies. The FMB cells were
labeled with antibodies against the carbohydrate epitope CD15. Cone pedicles were
identified with peanut agglutinin. Immunoreactivity for the GluR1 subunit and for
CD15 is preferentially located at triad-associated flat contacts. Furthermore,
the large majority of GluR1 immunoreactive puncta is localized at the dendritic
tips of FMB cells. These results suggest that FMB cells express the AMPA receptor
subunit GluR1. In contrast, the kainate receptor subunit GluR5 is not colocalized
with the dendritic tips of FMB cells or with the GluR1 subunit. Immunoreactive
puncta for the GluR1 subunit are found at all M/L-cone pedicles but are only
rarely associated with S-cone pedicles. This is consistent with our recent
findings in marmoset retina that FMB cells do not contact S-cone pedicles. The
presence of GluR5 clusters at S-cone pedicles indicates that in primate retinas
OFF bipolar cells expressing kainate receptor subunits receive some S-cone input.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21315 
PMID: 17366611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

