

2415. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2007 May;32(4):331-49. Epub 2007 Mar 23.

Behavioral and physiological effects of an infant-neglect manipulation in a
bi-parental, twinning primate: impact is dependent on familial factors.

Dettling AC(1), Schnell CR, Maier C, Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
ZÃ¼rich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

Experimental animal studies and epidemiological and clinical human studies
demonstrate that atypical infant-caregiving can exert short- and long-term
effects on offspring phenotype, including increased long-term risk of affective
disorders. Whilst the early environment is therefore a major determinant of
behavioral, physiological and neurobiological phenotypes, the effects of early
adversity exhibit individual variation, presumably due to differences in
environment-genotype interactions. Twin studies provide a powerful model with
which to study such interactions. However, human twin studies rarely include
analysis of genotype-environment interactions or of individuals exposed to
extreme environments, and rat studies have rarely attempted to utilize
littermates (i.e. dizygotic twins) to investigate environment-genotype
interactions. Here, we report on the effects of repeated deprivation of
caregiving in the common marmoset, a primate that exhibits dizygotic twinning and
bi-parental care. Breeding pairs each contributed early deprived (ED) twins and
control (CON) twins, thereby allowing for the study of effects of ED, parentage
and ED-parentage interaction. Significant ED x parentage interaction effects were
obtained for basal urinary, plasma and cerebrospinal-fluid cortisol titers
(infancy-adolescence), and basal levels of social and maintenance behaviors
(juveniles); basal urinary cortisol titers during a 2-week period of repeated
psychosocial challenge (juveniles), and social and exploratory behavior during
psychosocial challenge (juveniles). Significant main effects of ED were obtained 
for: basal levels of time spent in contact with parents (ED>CON; juveniles) and
in locomotor activity (ED<CON; adolescents); basal and
psychosocial-stress-related systolic blood pressure (ED>CON; juveniles); time
spent in locomotor activity (ED<CON), contact calling (ED<CON) and exploring
novelty (ED>CON) during psychosocial challenge (juveniles). This study provides
evidence for long-term effects of early environment on bio-behavioral traits and 
states in marmosets specifically, and the importance of including parental
factors in developmental studies in mammals generally.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.01.005 
PMID: 17363175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2416. Vision Res. 2007 Apr;47(9):1228-44. Epub 2007 Mar 13.

Accommodation and induced myopia in marmosets.

Troilo D(1), Quinn N, Baker K.

Author information: 
(1)The New England College of Optometry, 424 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02115,
USA. troilod@neco.edu

Accommodation may indirectly influence visually guided eye growth by affecting
the retinal defocus signal used to guide growth. Specifically, increased lags of 
accommodation associated with low stimulus-response (S-R) function slopes will
impose increased hyperopic blur on the retina and may induce axial elongation and
myopia. The purpose of this study was (1) to measure accommodation in awake, free
viewing marmosets and (2) compare accommodation behavior in marmosets before and 
after inducing different amounts of myopia with binocular spectacle lenses. In
untreated marmosets, the average accommodation S-R slope approached one, but
showed considerable inter-individual variability (mean+/-SD: 0.964+/-0.249 for
monocular viewing; 0.895+/-0.235 for binocular viewing; monocular and binocular
measures not significantly different). The monocular S-R slopes were
significantly reduced following a period of lens rearing that produced axial
myopia (change in slope=-0.30+/-0.30, p<.01) and the reduction in slope was
proportional to the amount of myopia induced (p<.01). The S-R slopes measured
either under monocular or binocular conditions before induction of myopia were
not well correlated with the degree of myopia induced (monocular: r=-.240,
p=.453; binocular: r=-.060, p=.824). These results support the hypothesis that
the reduction in S-R slope in myopes is a consequence of the myopia induced. The 
alternative hypothesis-that low S-R slope increases susceptibility to the
development of myopia--is not supported by the weak correlation between the
pre-manipulation S-R slopes and the magnitude of the myopic shift.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2007.01.018 
PMCID: PMC1892168
PMID: 17360018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

