

2416. Vision Res. 2007 Apr;47(9):1228-44. Epub 2007 Mar 13.

Accommodation and induced myopia in marmosets.

Troilo D(1), Quinn N, Baker K.

Author information: 
(1)The New England College of Optometry, 424 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02115,
USA. troilod@neco.edu

Accommodation may indirectly influence visually guided eye growth by affecting
the retinal defocus signal used to guide growth. Specifically, increased lags of 
accommodation associated with low stimulus-response (S-R) function slopes will
impose increased hyperopic blur on the retina and may induce axial elongation and
myopia. The purpose of this study was (1) to measure accommodation in awake, free
viewing marmosets and (2) compare accommodation behavior in marmosets before and 
after inducing different amounts of myopia with binocular spectacle lenses. In
untreated marmosets, the average accommodation S-R slope approached one, but
showed considerable inter-individual variability (mean+/-SD: 0.964+/-0.249 for
monocular viewing; 0.895+/-0.235 for binocular viewing; monocular and binocular
measures not significantly different). The monocular S-R slopes were
significantly reduced following a period of lens rearing that produced axial
myopia (change in slope=-0.30+/-0.30, p<.01) and the reduction in slope was
proportional to the amount of myopia induced (p<.01). The S-R slopes measured
either under monocular or binocular conditions before induction of myopia were
not well correlated with the degree of myopia induced (monocular: r=-.240,
p=.453; binocular: r=-.060, p=.824). These results support the hypothesis that
the reduction in S-R slope in myopes is a consequence of the myopia induced. The 
alternative hypothesis-that low S-R slope increases susceptibility to the
development of myopia--is not supported by the weak correlation between the
pre-manipulation S-R slopes and the magnitude of the myopic shift.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2007.01.018 
PMCID: PMC1892168
PMID: 17360018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2417. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2007 Oct;32(10):2163-72. Epub 2007 Mar 14.

SB-649915-B, a novel 5-HT1A/B autoreceptor antagonist and serotonin reuptake
inhibitor, is anxiolytic and displays fast onset activity in the rat high light
social interaction test.

Starr KR(1), Price GW, Watson JM, Atkinson PJ, Arban R, Melotto S, Dawson LA,
Hagan JJ, Upton N, Duxon MS.

Author information: 
(1)Schizophrenia and Bipolar Research, Psychiatry Centre of Excellence in Drug
Discovery, GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park, Essex CM19 5AW, UK.

Preclinically, the combination of an SSRI and 5-HT autoreceptor antagonist has
been shown to reduce the time to onset of anxiolytic activity compared to an SSRI
alone. In accordance with this, clinical data suggest the coadministration of an 
SSRI and (+/-) pindolol can decrease the time to onset of
anxiolytic/antidepressant activity. Thus, the dual-acting novel SSRI and
5-HT(1A/B) receptor antagonist, SB-649915-B, has been assessed in acute and
chronic preclinical models of anxiolysis. SB-649915-B (0.1-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.)
significantly reduced ultrasonic vocalization in male rat pups separated from
their mothers (ED(50) of 0.17 mg/kg). In the marmoset human threat test
SB-649915-B (3.0 and 10 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly reduced the number of postures
with no effect on locomotion. In the rat high light social interaction (SI),
SB-649915-B (1.0-7.5 mg/kg, t.i.d.) and paroxetine (3.0 mg/kg, once daily) were
orally administered for 4, 7, and 21 days. Ex vivo inhibition of [(3)H]5-HT
uptake was also measured following SI. SB-649915-B and paroxetine had no effect
on SI after 4 days. In contrast to paroxetine, SB-649915-B (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg,
p.o., t.i.d.) significantly (p<0.05) increased SI time with no effect on
locomotion, indicative of an anxiolytic-like profile on day 7. Anxiolysis was
maintained after chronic (21 days) administration by which time paroxetine also
increased SI significantly. 5-HT uptake was inhibited by SB-649915-B at all time 
points to a similar magnitude as that seen with paroxetine. In conclusion,
SB-649915-B is acutely anxiolytic and reduces the latency to onset of anxiolytic 
behavior compared to paroxetine in the SI model.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.npp.1301341 
PMID: 17356576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

