

2419. Behav Pharmacol. 2007 Mar;18(2):155-60.

Plasma levels of rotigotine and the reversal of motor deficits in MPTP-treated
primates.

Rose S(1), Scheller DK, Breidenbach A, Smith L, Jackson M, Stockwell K, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)aNeurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College London, UK.

Rotigotine is a nonergolinic dopamine D3/D2/D1-receptor agonist used clinically
for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. This study aimed to determine the
relationship between peak antiparkinsonian activity and drug plasma levels after 
administration of rotigotine to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropytidine-treated primates. Using single
subcutaneous injections of rotigotine and blood sampling at two subsequent time
points, the relationship between improvement in motor activity and plasma
rotigotine level was evaluated in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropytidine-treated common marmosets. Rotigotine
(0.01875-0.3 mg/kg subcutaneously) produced an increase in locomotor activity
even at the lowest dose tested. Total increase in motor activity and duration of 
drug effect were dose related. Motor disability was similarly improved by
rotigotine in a dose-dependent manner. At the highest doses, hyperactivity and
stereotypy were observed. Plasma concentrations of rotigotine were linearly
related to dose over dosage range employed, but not to behavioral response.
Results show that pulsatile administration of rotigotine effectively normalizes
motor activity in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropytidine-treated marmosets.
Although dose and plasma concentrations of rotigotine are closely related, drug
effects in the brain measured as locomotion and improvement of disability
dissociate from plasma levels. Plasma levels corresponding to the optimal dose
range (0.01875-0.075 mg/kg) will guide a continuous administration regimen of
rotigotine in a subsequent study using the same experimental model of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0b013e3280ebb400 
PMID: 17351422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2420. Hear Res. 2007 Jul;229(1-2):81-93. Epub 2007 Jan 25.

Neural coding strategies in auditory cortex.

Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu

In contrast to the visual system, the auditory system has longer subcortical
pathways and more spiking synapses between the peripheral receptors and the
cortex. This unique organization reflects the needs of the auditory system to
extract behaviorally relevant information from a complex acoustic environment
using strategies different from those used by other sensory systems. The neural
representations of acoustic information in auditory cortex can be characterized
by three types: (1) isomorphic (faithful) representations of acoustic structures;
(2) non-isomorphic transformations of acoustic features and (3) transformations
from acoustical to perceptual dimensions. The challenge facing auditory
neurophysiologists is to understand the nature of the latter two transformations.
In this article, I will review recent studies from our laboratory regarding
temporal discharge patterns in auditory cortex of awake marmosets and cortical
representations of time-varying signals. Findings from these studies show that
(1) firing patterns of neurons in auditory cortex are dependent on stimulus
optimality and context and (2) the auditory cortex forms internal representations
of sounds that are no longer faithful replicas of their acoustic structures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2007.01.019 
PMID: 17346911  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

