

2420. Hear Res. 2007 Jul;229(1-2):81-93. Epub 2007 Jan 25.

Neural coding strategies in auditory cortex.

Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu

In contrast to the visual system, the auditory system has longer subcortical
pathways and more spiking synapses between the peripheral receptors and the
cortex. This unique organization reflects the needs of the auditory system to
extract behaviorally relevant information from a complex acoustic environment
using strategies different from those used by other sensory systems. The neural
representations of acoustic information in auditory cortex can be characterized
by three types: (1) isomorphic (faithful) representations of acoustic structures;
(2) non-isomorphic transformations of acoustic features and (3) transformations
from acoustical to perceptual dimensions. The challenge facing auditory
neurophysiologists is to understand the nature of the latter two transformations.
In this article, I will review recent studies from our laboratory regarding
temporal discharge patterns in auditory cortex of awake marmosets and cortical
representations of time-varying signals. Findings from these studies show that
(1) firing patterns of neurons in auditory cortex are dependent on stimulus
optimality and context and (2) the auditory cortex forms internal representations
of sounds that are no longer faithful replicas of their acoustic structures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2007.01.019 
PMID: 17346911  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2421. J Comp Neurol. 2007 May 1;502(1):126-40.

Connections of diffuse bipolar cells in primate retina are biased against
S-cones.

Lee SC(1), Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, VIC 3053, Australia.

In mammalian retina, each diffuse bipolar type stratifies in a distinct layer of 
the inner plexiform layer. Thus, different types of bipolar cells provide output 
to distinct visual pathways. Here, the question of whether diffuse bipolar cell
types differ with respect to their contacts with short wavelength-sensitive (S-) 
cones was investigated in the retinas of a New World monkey, Callithrix jacchus, 
and an Old World monkey, Macaca fascicularis. Subpopulations of OFF bipolar cells
were labeled with antibodies to the glutamate transporter Glt-1 and ON bipolar
cells were labeled with antibodies to the alpha subunit of the Go protein
(Goalpha). Two types of diffuse ON bipolar cells, DB4 and DB6, were identified
with antibodies to protein kinase Calpha and CD15, respectively. Cone pedicles
were labeled either with peanut agglutinin coupled to fluorescein or with
antibodies to the ribbon protein, C-terminus binding protein 2. We found that
immunoreactivity for Glt-1 (OFF bipolar cells) is reduced at S-cones in
comparison to medium/long wavelength-sensitive (M/L-) cones. Immunoreactivity for
Goalpha (ON bipolar cells) is comparable at all cone types. Nearly all M/L-cone
pedicles contact the diffuse ON bipolar types DB4 and DB6, but only between 60%
and 75% of the S-cone pedicles make contact. Furthermore, the number of dendritic
tips of DB4 and DB6 cells at S-cone pedicles is lower than that at M/L-cone
pedicles. These results suggest that there is a bias in the S-cone connectivity
of diffuse bipolar cells.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21284 
PMID: 17335043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

