

2424. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 2007 Mar;55(3):393-402.

Indoline derivatives II: synthesis and factor Xa (FXa) inhibitory activities.

Noguchi T(1), Tanaka N, Nishimata T, Goto R, Hayakawa M, Sugidachi A, Ogawa T,
Asai F, Ozeki T, Fujimoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Medicinal Chemistry Research Laboratories, Sankyo Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.

Factor Xa (FXa) is well known to play a pivotal role in blood coagulation, so FXa
inhibitor is a promising drug candidate for prophylaxis and treatment of
thromboembolic diseases. In the course of our research, we have found that
(R)-5-[1-(acetimidoyl)piperidin-4-yloxy]-2-(7-amidinonaphthalen-2-yl)-1-(ethanesu
lfonyl)indoline ((R)-1) showed potent FXa inhibitory activity in vitro. However, 
single oral administation (RS)-1 showed high toxicity in mice. Among newly
synthesized compounds,
({(RS)-5-[1-(acetimidoyl)piperidin-4-yloxy]-2-(7-amidinonaphthalen-2-yl)indolin-1
-yl}sulfonyl)acetic acid ((RS)-11d) showed more potent FXa inhibitory activity
and higher safety than (RS)-1. The R-isoform of compound 11d ((R)-11d) exhibited 
potent in vitro anticoagulant activity in human and hamster plasma. Orally
administered (R)-11d also showed dose-dependent potent anticoagulant activity in 
hamsters, marmosets and cynomolgus monkeys. Compound (R)-11d with potent
anticoagulant activity and high safety is therefore favorable as a novel oral FXa
inhibitor.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.55.393 
PMID: 17329879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2425. J Gen Virol. 2007 Mar;88(Pt 3):895-902. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.82467-0.

A chimeric GB virus B encoding the hepatitis C virus hypervariable region 1 is
infectious in vivo.

Haqshenas G(1), Dong X(2)(1), Netter H(2), Torresi J(3), Gowans EJ(2)(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Macfarlane Burnet Institute, GPO Box 2284, Melbourne, VIC 3001, Australia.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Medicine (RMH/WH), University of Melbourne, Centre for Clinical 
Research Excellence, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, VIC, Australia.

Two GB virus B (GBV-B) chimeric genomes, GBV-HVR and GBV-HVRh (with a hinge),
containing the coding region of the immunodominant hypervariable region 1 (HVR1) 
of the E2 envelope protein of Hepatitis C virus (HCV) were constructed.
Immunoblot analysis confirmed that HVR1 was anchored to the GBV-B E2 protein. To 
investigate the replication competence and in vivo stability of in
vitro-generated chimeric RNA transcripts, two naïve marmosets were inoculated
intrahepatically with the transcripts. The GBV-HVR chimeric genome was detectable
for 2 weeks post-inoculation (p.i.), whereas GBV-HVRh reverted to wild type 1
week p.i. Sequencing analysis of the HVR1 and flanking regions from GBV-HVR RNA
isolated from marmoset serum demonstrated that the HVR1 insert remained unaltered
in the GBV-HVR chimera for 2 weeks. Inoculation of a naïve marmoset with serum
collected at 1 week p.i. also resulted in viraemia and confirmed that the serum
contained infectious particles. All animals cleared the infection by 3 weeks p.i.
and remained negative for the remaining weeks. The chimera may prove useful for
the in vivo examination of any HCV HVR1-based vaccine candidates.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.82467-0 
PMID: 17325362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

