

2425. J Gen Virol. 2007 Mar;88(Pt 3):895-902. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.82467-0.

A chimeric GB virus B encoding the hepatitis C virus hypervariable region 1 is
infectious in vivo.

Haqshenas G(1), Dong X(2)(1), Netter H(2), Torresi J(3), Gowans EJ(2)(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Macfarlane Burnet Institute, GPO Box 2284, Melbourne, VIC 3001, Australia.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Medicine (RMH/WH), University of Melbourne, Centre for Clinical 
Research Excellence, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Parkville, VIC, Australia.

Two GB virus B (GBV-B) chimeric genomes, GBV-HVR and GBV-HVRh (with a hinge),
containing the coding region of the immunodominant hypervariable region 1 (HVR1) 
of the E2 envelope protein of Hepatitis C virus (HCV) were constructed.
Immunoblot analysis confirmed that HVR1 was anchored to the GBV-B E2 protein. To 
investigate the replication competence and in vivo stability of in
vitro-generated chimeric RNA transcripts, two naïve marmosets were inoculated
intrahepatically with the transcripts. The GBV-HVR chimeric genome was detectable
for 2 weeks post-inoculation (p.i.), whereas GBV-HVRh reverted to wild type 1
week p.i. Sequencing analysis of the HVR1 and flanking regions from GBV-HVR RNA
isolated from marmoset serum demonstrated that the HVR1 insert remained unaltered
in the GBV-HVR chimera for 2 weeks. Inoculation of a naïve marmoset with serum
collected at 1 week p.i. also resulted in viraemia and confirmed that the serum
contained infectious particles. All animals cleared the infection by 3 weeks p.i.
and remained negative for the remaining weeks. The chimera may prove useful for
the in vivo examination of any HCV HVR1-based vaccine candidates.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.82467-0 
PMID: 17325362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2426. Endocrinology. 2007 May;148(5):2273-81. Epub 2007 Feb 22.

Expression of anti-Mullerian hormone protein during early follicular development 
in the primate ovary in vivo is influenced by suppression of gonadotropin
secretion and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor.

Thomas FH(1), Telfer EE, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, University of
Edinburgh Centre for Reproductive Biology, The Queen's Medical Research
Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh, EH16 4TJ, UK.
f.thomas@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) plays a role during early follicular development and
selection. The aim of this study was to determine the pattern of AMH protein
expression in the marmoset ovary and to investigate the effects of inhibition of 
gonadotropins or vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) activity on AMH
expression in vivo. GnRH antagonist or VEGF Trap, a soluble decoy receptor, was
administered on d 0 or 5 of the follicular phase of the cycle, and ovaries were
collected at the end of the follicular phase (d 10). AMH protein was expressed in
the marmoset ovary in granulosa cells from the primary stage, with the most
abundant staining at the preantral and early antral stages. Inhibition of
gonadotropin secretion or VEGF activity between d 0-10 of the cycle decreased AMH
expression in early preantral follicles (P < 0.01), and AMH expression was
decreased in late preantral follicles in the presence of the VEGF Trap (P <
0.01), compared with controls. There was significantly less AMH expression in
early antral follicles with both treatments (P < 0.01), and a decrease in the
ratio of oocyte-associated/basement-membrane-associated granulosa cell expression
of AMH (P < 0.05). When treatments were administered from d 5-10 of the cycle,
both VEGF Trap and GnRH antagonist decreased AMH expression in preantral
follicles (P < 0.01) but had no significant effect on early antral follicles. In 
conclusion, VEGF and gonadotropins are involved in the regulation of expression
of AMH in the marmoset. This AMH expression may be a marker of abnormal
folliculogenesis in the absence of gonadotropin stimulation or functional
angiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2006-1501 
PMID: 17317775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

