

2427. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2006 Mar;37(1):44-8.

Cholelithiasis in four callitrichid species (Leontopithecus, Callithrix).

Smith KM(1), Calle P, Raphael BL, James S, Moore R, McAloose D, Baitchman E.

Author information: 
(1)Wildlife Conservation Society, Wildlife Health Sciences, 2300 Southern
Boulevard, Bronx, New York 10460, USA.

Medical records of three male and three female callitrichids of four species
(Leontopithecus chrysopygus, Leontopithecus rosalia, Callithrix argentata
argentata, Callithrix kuhlii) diagnosed with cholelithiasis were reviewed. Ages
of affected animals at the time of diagnosis ranged from 2-14 yr. Definitive
antemortem diagnosis of cholelithiasis was made in four of the six cases. Chronic
weight loss, lethargy, and weakness were seen in all cases. Chronic intermittent 
diarrhea was seen in three cases. Icterus and abnormal gait were each present in 
two of the animals. Hematologic and serum biochemical abnormalities included
leukocytosis in five cases, elevated bilirubin (direct and indirect) in four
cases, and anemia in four cases. Radiographic evidence of choleliths was observed
in three cases. Surgical removal of choleliths was successfully performed on two 
animals. Full necropsies were performed on all cases, and choleliths were
believed to contribute to morbidity in all cases. However, inflammatory bowel
disease was determined to be the primary cause of weight loss and mortality in at
least three animals. All choleliths analyzed were pigment stones, two being
primarily composed of cystine.

DOI: 10.1638/05-032.1 
PMID: 17312811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2428. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2006 Jun;37(2):182-5.

Leptospirosis in Wied's marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Baitchman EJ(1), Calle PP, James SB, Linn MJ, Raphael BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Care, Wildlife Conservation Society, Bronx, New York
10460, USA.

Two adult Wied's marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii) presented with jaundice, anemia,
and weight loss. Death of one individual was attributed to renal tubular
necrosis; liver and kidney were positive for Leptospira antigen by
immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. The second animal was negative for antigen by
IHC staining, but serologically positive for Leptospira borgpetersenii serovar
ballum with an eightfold titer increase in paired samples, and was euthanized
because of unresponsiveness to treatment. Environmental contamination by mice was
suspected as the Leptospira source.

DOI: 10.1638/05-062.1 
PMID: 17312798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

