

2428. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2006 Jun;37(2):182-5.

Leptospirosis in Wied's marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Baitchman EJ(1), Calle PP, James SB, Linn MJ, Raphael BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Care, Wildlife Conservation Society, Bronx, New York
10460, USA.

Two adult Wied's marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii) presented with jaundice, anemia,
and weight loss. Death of one individual was attributed to renal tubular
necrosis; liver and kidney were positive for Leptospira antigen by
immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. The second animal was negative for antigen by
IHC staining, but serologically positive for Leptospira borgpetersenii serovar
ballum with an eightfold titer increase in paired samples, and was euthanized
because of unresponsiveness to treatment. Environmental contamination by mice was
suspected as the Leptospira source.

DOI: 10.1638/05-062.1 
PMID: 17312798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2429. Epidemiol Infect. 2007 Nov;135(8):1256-65. Epub 2007 Feb 19.

Re-emergence of Francisella tularensis in Germany: fatal tularaemia in a colony
of semi-free-living marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Splettstoesser WD(1), MÃ¤tz-Rensing K, Seibold E, Tomaso H, Al Dahouk S, Grunow R,
Essbauer S, Buckendahl A, Finke EJ, Neubauer H.

Author information: 
(1)Bundeswehr Institute of Microbiology, National Reference Laboratory for
Tularaemia, Munich, Germany. wolfsplettstoesser@bundeswehr.org

Francisella tularensis was identified as the cause of a die-off which occurred
among a colony of semi-free-living common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). During 
the outbreak 5 out of 62 animals died of tularaemia in a research facility
located in the district of Goettingen, Germany. All animals had been born at the 
facility suggesting an endemic infection. A total of five culture isolates were
recovered and characterized as F. tularensis holarctica, biovar I. These cultures
represent the first isolates obtained in the Federal Republic of Germany for more
than 45 years. The outbreak area shows several geographical and ecological
characteristics known to favour long-term presence of F. tularensis. Persistence 
of the pathogen in the remote region along the former German-German border,
continuous re-introduction from eastern European countries after destruction of
the 'Iron curtain' or introduction through migrating birds are testable
hypotheses which could explain the emergence of tularaemia in this particular
region.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268807008035 
PMCID: PMC2870702
PMID: 17306050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

