

2429. Epidemiol Infect. 2007 Nov;135(8):1256-65. Epub 2007 Feb 19.

Re-emergence of Francisella tularensis in Germany: fatal tularaemia in a colony
of semi-free-living marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Splettstoesser WD(1), MÃ¤tz-Rensing K, Seibold E, Tomaso H, Al Dahouk S, Grunow R,
Essbauer S, Buckendahl A, Finke EJ, Neubauer H.

Author information: 
(1)Bundeswehr Institute of Microbiology, National Reference Laboratory for
Tularaemia, Munich, Germany. wolfsplettstoesser@bundeswehr.org

Francisella tularensis was identified as the cause of a die-off which occurred
among a colony of semi-free-living common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). During 
the outbreak 5 out of 62 animals died of tularaemia in a research facility
located in the district of Goettingen, Germany. All animals had been born at the 
facility suggesting an endemic infection. A total of five culture isolates were
recovered and characterized as F. tularensis holarctica, biovar I. These cultures
represent the first isolates obtained in the Federal Republic of Germany for more
than 45 years. The outbreak area shows several geographical and ecological
characteristics known to favour long-term presence of F. tularensis. Persistence 
of the pathogen in the remote region along the former German-German border,
continuous re-introduction from eastern European countries after destruction of
the 'Iron curtain' or introduction through migrating birds are testable
hypotheses which could explain the emergence of tularaemia in this particular
region.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268807008035 
PMCID: PMC2870702
PMID: 17306050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2430. J Electron Microsc (Tokyo). 2006 Dec;55(6):301-4. Epub 2007 Feb 15.

The sensory region of muscle spindles in the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle of
the marmoset.

Desaki J, Nishida N.

Erratum in
    J Electron Microsc (Tokyo). 2007 Dec;56(6):257-8.

We examined muscle spindles in the posterior cricoarytenoid (PCA) muscle of the
marmoset. The spindle capsule contained only one intrafusal muscle fiber which
did not form a typical aggregation of equatorial nuclei such as bags and chains. 
The intrafusal fiber was innervated by sensory endings which branched and
arranged irregularly. These sensory endings lay on the surface of the fiber in
shallow grooves or deeply penetrated into it. These findings suggest that the
muscle spindles in the marmoset PCA muscle are strikingly different in the
structure of intrafusal fibers in the arrangement of sensory endings from those
in common mammalian skeletal muscles.

DOI: 10.1093/jmicro/dfl040 
PMID: 17303620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

