

2432. Br J Pharmacol. 2007 Apr;150(7):893-8. Epub 2007 Feb 12.

Nitric oxide fails to confer endogenous antiarrhythmic cardioprotection in the
primate heart in vitro.

Pabla R(1), Curtis MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Rayne Institute, St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The role of nitric oxide (NO) in cardiac pathophysiology 
remains controversial. According to data from several studies using rat and
rabbit isolated hearts, NO is an endogenous cardioprotectant against
reperfusion-induced ventricular fibrillation (VF). Thus, if cardiac NO production
is abolished by perfusion with L-N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME) (100 
microM) there is a concomittant increase in the incidence of reperfusion-induced 
VF, with L-NAME's effects on NO and VF prevented by L- (but not D-) arginine
co-perfusion. To make a better estimate of the clinical relevance of these
findings, 100 microM L-NAME was tested in primate hearts under similar
conditions.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Marmoset (Callithrix jaccus) hearts, isolated and
perfused, were subjected to 60 min left regional ischaemia followed by 10 min
reperfusion in vitro. The ECG was recorded and NO in coronary effluent measured
by chemiluminescence.
KEY RESULTS: L-NAME (100 micro M) decreased NO in coronary effluent throughout
ischaemia and reperfusion (e.g. from 3720+/-777 pmol min(-1) g(-1) in controls to
699+/-98 pmol min(-1) g(-1) after 5 min of ischaemia) and, during ischaemia,
lowered coronary flow and reduced heart rate, actions identical to those seen in 
rat and rabbit hearts. However, the incidence of reperfusion-induced VF was
unchanged (20%, with or without L-NAME).
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: A species difference exists in the effectiveness of
endogenous NO to protect hearts against reperfusion-induced VF. The present
primate data, which presumably take precedence over rat and rabbit data, cast
doubt on the clinical relevance of NO as an endogenous, antiarrhythmic,
cardioprotectant.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0707143 
PMCID: PMC2013886
PMID: 17293889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2433. Horm Behav. 2007 Mar;51(3):436-42. Epub 2007 Jan 3.

Non-invasive measurement of small peptides in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): a radiolabeled clearance study and endogenous excretion under varying
social conditions.

Seltzer LJ(1), Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, 1180 Observatory Drive 5240 Social Science
Building Madison, WI 53706, USA. lseltzer@wisc.edu

A non-invasive assay for measurement of oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) in
primates would enable researchers to study the relationship between the endocrine
system and behavior without disturbing potentially endangered animals in their
natural habitats. In order to test whether or not OT specifically would be
measurable in the urine of a primate, 10 microCi of tritium-labeled OT were
injected into the peripheral blood supply of four adult male common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), with continuous urinary collection over 48 h. When urine
was processed by HPLC separation and beta counting for radioactive clearance, the
label was present in all samples in the fraction where OT elutes. Large amounts
of OT were also seen in a fraction other than that containing the OT standard,
indicating that OT is measurable but that it also undergoes substantial metabolic
breakdown. In a second experiment, we isolated six common marmosets for 48 h and 
then exposed them to social contact to evaluate the effect of changing social
stimuli on endogenous urinary measurement of both OT and AVP. Both were measured 
after HPLC separation to isolate the intact molecule and also to control for
cross-reactivity with metabolites in subsequent RIA. Cortisol was also measured
to objectively evaluate the stress response. A priori assumptions were that
urinary OT and AVP would be lower during a period of isolation and higher during 
periods of social contact. These assumptions were met, leading us to conclude
that peripheral OT and AVP are measurable via urinary assay and that such an
assay is a valid means of evaluating social condition in this species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2006.12.012 
PMID: 17292369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

