

2433. Horm Behav. 2007 Mar;51(3):436-42. Epub 2007 Jan 3.

Non-invasive measurement of small peptides in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): a radiolabeled clearance study and endogenous excretion under varying
social conditions.

Seltzer LJ(1), Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, 1180 Observatory Drive 5240 Social Science
Building Madison, WI 53706, USA. lseltzer@wisc.edu

A non-invasive assay for measurement of oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) in
primates would enable researchers to study the relationship between the endocrine
system and behavior without disturbing potentially endangered animals in their
natural habitats. In order to test whether or not OT specifically would be
measurable in the urine of a primate, 10 microCi of tritium-labeled OT were
injected into the peripheral blood supply of four adult male common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), with continuous urinary collection over 48 h. When urine
was processed by HPLC separation and beta counting for radioactive clearance, the
label was present in all samples in the fraction where OT elutes. Large amounts
of OT were also seen in a fraction other than that containing the OT standard,
indicating that OT is measurable but that it also undergoes substantial metabolic
breakdown. In a second experiment, we isolated six common marmosets for 48 h and 
then exposed them to social contact to evaluate the effect of changing social
stimuli on endogenous urinary measurement of both OT and AVP. Both were measured 
after HPLC separation to isolate the intact molecule and also to control for
cross-reactivity with metabolites in subsequent RIA. Cortisol was also measured
to objectively evaluate the stress response. A priori assumptions were that
urinary OT and AVP would be lower during a period of isolation and higher during 
periods of social contact. These assumptions were met, leading us to conclude
that peripheral OT and AVP are measurable via urinary assay and that such an
assay is a valid means of evaluating social condition in this species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2006.12.012 
PMID: 17292369  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2434. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2007 Feb;40(2):237-41.

Random amplification of polymorphic DNA reveals clonal relationships among
enteropathogenic Escherichia coli isolated from non-human primates and humans.

Carvalho VM(1), Irino K, Onuma D, Pestana de Castro AF.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Instituto de Ciências da Saúde,
Universidade Paulista, Rua Dr. Bacelar 1212, 04026-002 São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
vaniamc@uol.com.br

Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) strains are important agents of
infantile diarrhea all over the world, gaining even greater importance in
developing countries. EPEC have also been isolated from various animal species,
but most isolates belong to serotypes that differ from those recovered from
humans. However, it has been demonstrated that several isolates from non-human
primates belong to the serogroups and/or serotypes related to those implicated in
human disease. The objective of this study was to evaluate the genetic
differences between thirteen strains isolated from non-human primates and the
same number of strains isolated from human infections. Human isolates belonged to
the same serogroup/serotype as the monkey strains and the evaluation was done by 
analysis of random amplified polymorphic DNA. Dendrogram analysis showed that
there was no clustering between human and monkey strains. Human and non-human
isolates of the EPEC serotypes O127:H40 and O128:H2 shared 90 and 87% of their
bands, respectively, indicating strong genomic similarity between the strains,
leading to the speculation that they may have arisen from the same pathogenic
clone. To our knowledge, this study is the first one comparing genomic similarity
between human and non-human primate strains and the results provide further
evidence that monkey EPEC strains correlate with human EPEC, as suggested in a
previous investigation.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2007000200010 
PMID: 17273660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

