

2434. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2007 Feb;40(2):237-41.

Random amplification of polymorphic DNA reveals clonal relationships among
enteropathogenic Escherichia coli isolated from non-human primates and humans.

Carvalho VM(1), Irino K, Onuma D, Pestana de Castro AF.

Author information: 
(1)Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Instituto de Ciências da Saúde,
Universidade Paulista, Rua Dr. Bacelar 1212, 04026-002 São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
vaniamc@uol.com.br

Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) strains are important agents of
infantile diarrhea all over the world, gaining even greater importance in
developing countries. EPEC have also been isolated from various animal species,
but most isolates belong to serotypes that differ from those recovered from
humans. However, it has been demonstrated that several isolates from non-human
primates belong to the serogroups and/or serotypes related to those implicated in
human disease. The objective of this study was to evaluate the genetic
differences between thirteen strains isolated from non-human primates and the
same number of strains isolated from human infections. Human isolates belonged to
the same serogroup/serotype as the monkey strains and the evaluation was done by 
analysis of random amplified polymorphic DNA. Dendrogram analysis showed that
there was no clustering between human and monkey strains. Human and non-human
isolates of the EPEC serotypes O127:H40 and O128:H2 shared 90 and 87% of their
bands, respectively, indicating strong genomic similarity between the strains,
leading to the speculation that they may have arisen from the same pathogenic
clone. To our knowledge, this study is the first one comparing genomic similarity
between human and non-human primate strains and the results provide further
evidence that monkey EPEC strains correlate with human EPEC, as suggested in a
previous investigation.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2007000200010 
PMID: 17273660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2435. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2007 May;6(5):895-907. Epub 2007 Jan 29.

Elongation of axons during regeneration involves retinal crystallin beta b2
(crybb2).

Liedtke T(1), Schwamborn JC, Schröer U, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Münster, Germany.

Adult retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) can regenerate their axons in vitro. Using
proteomics, we discovered that the supernatants of cultured retinas contain
isoforms of crystallins with crystallin beta b2 (crybb2) being clearly
up-regulated in the regenerating retina. Immunohistochemistry revealed the
expression of crybb within the retina, including in filopodial protrusions and
axons of RGCs. Cloning and overexpression of crybb2 in RGCs and hippocampal
neurons increased axonogenesis, which in turn could be blocked with antibodies
against beta-crystallin. Conditioned medium from crybb2-transfected cell cultures
also supported the growth of axons. Finally real time imaging of the uptake of
green fluorescent protein-tagged crybb2 fusion protein showed that this protein
becomes internalized. These data are the first to show that axonal regeneration
is related to crybb2 movement. The results suggest that neuronal crystallins
constitute a novel class of neurite-promoting factors that likely operate through
an autocrine mechanism and that they could be used in neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1074/mcp.M600245-MCP200 
PMID: 17264069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

