

2435. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2007 May;6(5):895-907. Epub 2007 Jan 29.

Elongation of axons during regeneration involves retinal crystallin beta b2
(crybb2).

Liedtke T(1), Schwamborn JC, Schröer U, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Münster, Germany.

Adult retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) can regenerate their axons in vitro. Using
proteomics, we discovered that the supernatants of cultured retinas contain
isoforms of crystallins with crystallin beta b2 (crybb2) being clearly
up-regulated in the regenerating retina. Immunohistochemistry revealed the
expression of crybb within the retina, including in filopodial protrusions and
axons of RGCs. Cloning and overexpression of crybb2 in RGCs and hippocampal
neurons increased axonogenesis, which in turn could be blocked with antibodies
against beta-crystallin. Conditioned medium from crybb2-transfected cell cultures
also supported the growth of axons. Finally real time imaging of the uptake of
green fluorescent protein-tagged crybb2 fusion protein showed that this protein
becomes internalized. These data are the first to show that axonal regeneration
is related to crybb2 movement. The results suggest that neuronal crystallins
constitute a novel class of neurite-promoting factors that likely operate through
an autocrine mechanism and that they could be used in neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1074/mcp.M600245-MCP200 
PMID: 17264069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2436. Neuroreport. 2007 Jan 8;18(1):7-11.

Growth-associated protein-43 expression in the lens of rats and primates.

Stupp T(1), Naskar R, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital, Münster,
Germany.

Growth-associated protein-43 is a specific neuronal protein that regulates
differentiation, growth and plasticity. In the present study, growth-associated
protein-43 expression was studied in the lens of rats and primates (including
man) at different postnatal ages by immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry and
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Growth-associated protein-43
was expressed at all ages in primates and in developing, but not in adult rats.
We demonstrate that the lens - a tissue that is devoid of nerves - expresses
growth-associated protein-43 throughout life in primates, and in rats during
development but not in adulthood. These results suggest that growth-associated
protein-43 is involved in differentiation processes also outside the nervous
system.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e3280109e9d 
PMID: 17259852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

