

2436. Neuroreport. 2007 Jan 8;18(1):7-11.

Growth-associated protein-43 expression in the lens of rats and primates.

Stupp T(1), Naskar R, Thanos S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital, MÃ¼nster,
Germany.

Growth-associated protein-43 is a specific neuronal protein that regulates
differentiation, growth and plasticity. In the present study, growth-associated
protein-43 expression was studied in the lens of rats and primates (including
man) at different postnatal ages by immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry and
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Growth-associated protein-43
was expressed at all ages in primates and in developing, but not in adult rats.
We demonstrate that the lens - a tissue that is devoid of nerves - expresses
growth-associated protein-43 throughout life in primates, and in rats during
development but not in adulthood. These results suggest that growth-associated
protein-43 is involved in differentiation processes also outside the nervous
system.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0b013e3280109e9d 
PMID: 17259852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2437. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2007 Mar 15;17(6):1616-21. Epub 2007 Jan 25.

Novel 4-(6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)methylbenzofuran
derivatives as selective alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptor antagonists.

Hagihara K(1), Kashima H, Iida K, Enokizono J, Uchida S, Nonaka H, Kurokawa M,
Shimada J.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Center, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd., 1188 Shimotogari, 
Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan. koji.hagihara@kyowa.co.jp

The synthesis of a series of
4-(6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)methyl-2-arylbenzofuran and
4-(6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)methylbenzofuran-2-carboxamid
e derivatives as novel alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptor antagonists are described.
Their affinity at three different human alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors is
reported, and some of these compounds exhibited high affinity for the
alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptor with high subtype selectivity. Among them, compound
10e has been found to show the anti-L-dopa-induced dyskinetic activity in
marmosets. The structure-activity relationship of these compounds is also
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2006.12.094 
PMID: 17257841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

