

2437. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2007 Mar 15;17(6):1616-21. Epub 2007 Jan 25.

Novel 4-(6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)methylbenzofuran
derivatives as selective alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptor antagonists.

Hagihara K(1), Kashima H, Iida K, Enokizono J, Uchida S, Nonaka H, Kurokawa M,
Shimada J.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Center, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd., 1188 Shimotogari, 
Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan. koji.hagihara@kyowa.co.jp

The synthesis of a series of
4-(6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)methyl-2-arylbenzofuran and
4-(6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinolin-2-yl)methylbenzofuran-2-carboxamid
e derivatives as novel alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptor antagonists are described.
Their affinity at three different human alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors is
reported, and some of these compounds exhibited high affinity for the
alpha(2C)-adrenergic receptor with high subtype selectivity. Among them, compound
10e has been found to show the anti-L-dopa-induced dyskinetic activity in
marmosets. The structure-activity relationship of these compounds is also
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2006.12.094 
PMID: 17257841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2438. Am J Primatol. 2007 Aug;69(8):945-52.

Infanticide and cannibalism in a free-ranging plurally breeding group of common
marmosets (Callithrix Jacchus).

Bezerra BM(1), Da Silva Souto A, Schiel N.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil. 
brumabe@br.inter.net

Our study presents a detailed description of infanticide and cannibalism in a
free-ranging plurally breeding group of Callithrix jacchus. The 1-month-old
infant was the daughter of the dominant female, and was attacked by the group's
second breeding female. Two months later, the latter gave birth to twins and
appeared to have become the dominant female. These findings confirm and extend
previous reports of infanticide by pregnant female marmosets, and indicate that
infants of dominant breeding female, as well as those of subordinate females, are
vulnerable to infanticide in plurally breeding groups. With respect to the
cannibalism, this act seemed to be mainly a response to the prompt availability
of food, represented by the killed infant.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20394 
PMID: 17253615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

