

2438. Am J Primatol. 2007 Aug;69(8):945-52.

Infanticide and cannibalism in a free-ranging plurally breeding group of common
marmosets (Callithrix Jacchus).

Bezerra BM(1), Da Silva Souto A, Schiel N.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil. 
brumabe@br.inter.net

Our study presents a detailed description of infanticide and cannibalism in a
free-ranging plurally breeding group of Callithrix jacchus. The 1-month-old
infant was the daughter of the dominant female, and was attacked by the group's
second breeding female. Two months later, the latter gave birth to twins and
appeared to have become the dominant female. These findings confirm and extend
previous reports of infanticide by pregnant female marmosets, and indicate that
infants of dominant breeding female, as well as those of subordinate females, are
vulnerable to infanticide in plurally breeding groups. With respect to the
cannibalism, this act seemed to be mainly a response to the prompt availability
of food, represented by the killed infant.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20394 
PMID: 17253615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2439. Anim Behav. 2004 Apr;67(4):627-636.

Grooming as a reward? Social function of grooming between females in
cooperatively breeding marmosets.

Lazaro-Perea C, DE FÃ¡tima Arruda M, Snowdon CT.

Classical models of grooming predict that subordinate primates will direct
grooming towards dominants to receive coalitionary support from them. In
contrast, recent reviews suggest that grooming asymmetries can change with social
system and ecological conditions and should reflect asymmetries in services
provided by different members of the dyad. We studied grooming patterns between
females in six wild groups of common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, to
investigate the relation between social structure and grooming between females in
a cooperatively breeding species. We observed grooming frequently and
consistently in all study groups. Breeding females groomed nonbreeding females
more than vice versa, and grooming between breeding and nonbreeding females was
not related to agonistic behaviour. Our results provide some support to the
hypothesis that grooming asymmetries are related to differences in services
provided by different group members. We suggest that, in cooperatively breeding
systems, breeding females may use grooming as an incentive for helper females to 
stay in the group.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2003.06.004 
PMCID: PMC1761567
PMID: 17237884 

