

2440. Vet Microbiol. 2007 Apr 15;121(3-4):363-7. Epub 2006 Dec 22.

Yersiniosis in zoo marmosets (Callitrix jacchuss) caused by Yersinia
enterocolitica 4/O:3.

Fredriksson-Ahomaa M(1), Naglic T, Turk N, Seol B, GrabareviÄ‡ Z, Bata I, Perkovic
D, Stolle A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Hygiene and Technology of Food of Animal Origin, Ludwig
Maximilian University, Munich, Germany. m.fredriksson@lmu.de

The aim of this research was to describe two fatal cases of Yersinia
enterocolitica bioserotype 4/O:3 infection in non-human primates and to
characterise the isolates by PCR and PFGE. In July 2004, two marmosets (Callitrix
jacchuss) born in captivity in Zagreb Zoo, died following a few days of
intermittent diarrhoea in intervals of 2 weeks. The pathomorphological diagnosis 
of the female (born in 1997) and the male (born in 1995) marmoset, was
disseminated miliary necrosis of the liver. Y. enterocolitica 4/O:3 was isolated 
from both livers showing that monkeys are susceptible to this bioserotype. The
ail gene, which is an essential chromosomal virulence factor in pathogenic Y.
enterocolitica isolates, was present in the marmoset isolates. Two different PFGE
patterns were obtained from the isolates of the male liver with NotI enzyme. One 
genotype of the male marmoset isolate was indistinguishable from the genotype of 
the female marmoset isolate when NotI, ApaI and XhoI enzymes were used indicating
a common infection source for the marmosets. The genotypes of the marmoset
isolates differed only slightly from one human (of seven Croatian isolates) and
from one pig isolate (representing a common genotype found among human and
porcine isolates in Germany) suggesting that raw pork fed to the marmoset could
have been the infection source.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2006.12.010 
PMID: 17223285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2441. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2007 Feb;265-266:93-101. Epub 2007 Jan 10.

Gender and gonadal status differences in zona reticularis expression in marmoset 
monkey adrenals: Cytochrome b5 localization with respect to cytochrome P450
17,20-lyase activity.

Pattison JC(1), Saltzman W, Abbott DH, Hogan BK, Nguyen AD, Husen B, Einspanier
A, Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53715, USA.

Neonatal marmosets express an adrenal fetal zone comparable to humans. While
adult males fail to express a functional ZR, with barely detectable blood DHEA
levels, females produce higher levels of DHEA than males in adulthood. We
investigated the presence of a putative functional ZR in adult female marmosets. 
In contrast to males, immunohistochemical analysis showed the ZR marker
cytochrome b5 was elevated in the innermost zone in cycling females (compared to 
testis-intact males), further elevated in the adrenals from anovulatory females, 
and substantially elevated and continuous in ovariectomized females. As a
functional test in vivo, following overnight dexamethasone treatment, cycling and
anovulatory females showed higher levels of DHEA relative to males, but DHEA
failed to increase in response to ACTH. In direct contrast, while ovariectomized 
females exhibited lower initial DHEA levels, clear increases were detectable
after ACTH administration (p<0.05), suggesting an adrenal origin. The apparent
differences in cytochrome b5 expression between groups were also further verified
by Western blotting of adrenal microsomes, and compared to 17,20-lyase activity; 
the two parameters were positively correlated (p<0.01) across multiple treatment 
groups. We conclude that the cycling female marmoset expresses a rudimentary ZR
with at least a capacity for DHEA production that becomes significantly
ACTH-responsive after anovulation. Expression of cytochrome b5 in this region may
be directly or indirectly controlled by gonadal function, and is, at least in
part, a critical determinant in the development of an adrenal ZR that is more
defined and significantly ACTH-responsive.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2006.12.023 
PMCID: PMC1839875
PMID: 17222503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

