

2444. J Stem Cells Regen Med. 2007 May 16;2(1):81-2. eCollection 2007.

A novel primate ES cell line from the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
exhibits germ cell development in vitro.

Mueller T(1), Fleischmann G(1), Horn P(1), Sasaki E(1), Behr R(1).

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Stem Cell Research Group , Kellnerweg 4, 37077
Gottingen, Germany.


PMID: 24692918 


2445. Biol Reprod. 2007 Apr;76(4):604-10. Epub 2006 Dec 27.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has two very similar semenogelin genes
as the result of gene conversion.

Valtonen-André C(1), Olsson AY, Kullberg M, Nayudu PL, Lundwall A.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital MAS, Division of Clinical Chemistry, Department of
Laboratory Medicine, Lund University, S-205 02 Malmö, Sweden.
C.Valtonen-Andre@med.lu.se

The semen coagulum proteins have undergone substantial structural changes during 
evolution. In primates, these seminal vesicle-secreted proteins are known as
semenogelin I (SEMG1) and semenogelin II (SEMG2). Previous studies on the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) showed that ejaculated semen from this New World
monkey contains semenogelin, but it remained unclear whether it carries both
genes or only SEMG1 and no SEMG2, like the closely related cotton-top tamarin
(Saguinus oedipus). In this study we show that there are two genes, both
expressed in the seminal vesicles. Surprisingly, the genes show an almost perfect
sequence identity in a region of 1.25 kb, encompassing nearly half of the genes
and containing exon 1, intron 1, and the first 0.9 kb of exon 2. The underlying
molecular mechanism is most likely gene conversion, and a phylogenetic analysis
suggests that SEMG1 is the most probable donor gene. The marmoset SEMG1 in this
report differs from a previously reported cDNA by a lack of nucleotides encoding 
one repeat of 60 amino acids, suggesting that marmoset SEMG1 displays allelic
size variation. This is similar to what was recently demonstrated in humans, but 
in marmosets the polymorphism was generated by a repeat duplication, whereas in
humans it was a deletion. Together, these studies shed new light on the evolution
of semenogelins and the mechanisms that have generated the structural diversity
of semen coagulum proteins.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.106.057661 
PMID: 17192513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

