

2445. Biol Reprod. 2007 Apr;76(4):604-10. Epub 2006 Dec 27.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has two very similar semenogelin genes
as the result of gene conversion.

Valtonen-André C(1), Olsson AY, Kullberg M, Nayudu PL, Lundwall A.

Author information: 
(1)University Hospital MAS, Division of Clinical Chemistry, Department of
Laboratory Medicine, Lund University, S-205 02 Malmö, Sweden.
C.Valtonen-Andre@med.lu.se

The semen coagulum proteins have undergone substantial structural changes during 
evolution. In primates, these seminal vesicle-secreted proteins are known as
semenogelin I (SEMG1) and semenogelin II (SEMG2). Previous studies on the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) showed that ejaculated semen from this New World
monkey contains semenogelin, but it remained unclear whether it carries both
genes or only SEMG1 and no SEMG2, like the closely related cotton-top tamarin
(Saguinus oedipus). In this study we show that there are two genes, both
expressed in the seminal vesicles. Surprisingly, the genes show an almost perfect
sequence identity in a region of 1.25 kb, encompassing nearly half of the genes
and containing exon 1, intron 1, and the first 0.9 kb of exon 2. The underlying
molecular mechanism is most likely gene conversion, and a phylogenetic analysis
suggests that SEMG1 is the most probable donor gene. The marmoset SEMG1 in this
report differs from a previously reported cDNA by a lack of nucleotides encoding 
one repeat of 60 amino acids, suggesting that marmoset SEMG1 displays allelic
size variation. This is similar to what was recently demonstrated in humans, but 
in marmosets the polymorphism was generated by a repeat duplication, whereas in
humans it was a deletion. Together, these studies shed new light on the evolution
of semenogelins and the mechanisms that have generated the structural diversity
of semen coagulum proteins.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.106.057661 
PMID: 17192513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2446. J Hered. 2007 Mar-Apr;98(2):165-8. Epub 2006 Dec 22.

Evolution and differentiation of MSHR gene in different species.

Li XL(1), Zheng GR, Zhou RY, Li LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, College of Animal Science and Technology,
Agricultural University of Hebei, Baoding, China. lizianglongcn@yahoo.com

Coat color offers some prospects for evolutionary studies due to its large amount
of presumably adaptive coat color variation and conserved genetic mechanisms of
generating different coat colors in different species. Melanocyte-stimulating
hormone receptor (MSHR) gene is responsible for intraspecific and interspecific
color variation in mammals and birds. A total number of 206 MSHR gene sequences
belonging to 84 species, 58 genera, and 20 families were analyzed to investigate 
its evolution and differentiation in different species. Most of the species have 
954 bp and stop codon TGA. Species in Callithrix and Callimico have a stop codon 
mutation from TGA to TGG and elongate 81 bp with TAG as stop codon. Species in
Phasianidae, Fringillidae, and Lemuridae also use TAG as stop codon. The Sus
scrofa had an insertion of AACCAGACC encoding Asn-Gln-Thr from 85 to 93 bp. In
Bovidae, a brown strain of cow with 966 bp due to the 12-bp duplication of
GGCATTGCCCGG from 670 to 681 bp encoding for Gly-Ile-Ala-Arg was found. Teiidae
has the smallest number of total mutations (6), silent mutations (3),
nonsynonymous mutations (3), average number of nucleotide differences (1.519),
synonymous nucleotide diversity (pi(s) = 0.0030), and nonsynonymous nucleotide
diversity (pi(a) = 0.0029), and Hominidae, Lemuridae, Canidae, and Teiidae have
higher ratio of pi(a)/pi(s) (0.537-0.973). The reconstructed phylogenetic tree of
MSHR gene of families is basically consistent with the taxonomy of National
Center for Biotechnology Information.

DOI: 10.1093/jhered/esl059 
PMID: 17189597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

