

2447. Acta Virol. 2006;50(4):235-41.

SLAM expression is not downregulated by measles virus infection.

Xu H(1), Xu Q, Zhang P, Yan F, Qi Y.

Author information: 
(1)China-UK Joint Research Laboratory of Insect Biology, Yan Nang Normal
University, Nan Yang, He Nan, P.R. China

It has been reported that the signaling lymphocyte-activation molecule (SLAM),
the second receptor of Measles virus (MV) on the cell surface appears to be
downregulated by MV infection or by expression of MV hemagglutinin (H) (Tanaka et
al., 2002; Welsteadt et al., 2004). The aim of this study was to analyze this
phenomenon in more detail using a Chinese vaccine strain (S191) of MV. Flow
cytometry confirmed apparent downregulation of SLAM in the virus-infected cells
and in the cells transfected with a plasmid expressing viral H. Moreover, a
similar effect was obtained by incubation of the cells with UV-inactivated virus 
or soluble viral H. Real-time quantitative PCR showed that the SLAM mRNA level
remained stable during the virus infection, and Western blot analysis
demonstrated that the SLAM content of total membrane proteins did not change
change after the virus infection. Thus we conclude that SLAM expression is stable
during the MV infection and that its apparent downregulation reported earlier and
confirmed also in this study was just the result of masking of the antibody
recognition sites on SLAM with MV H during the flow cytometry assay.


PMID: 17177608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2448. Am J Primatol. 2007 Feb;69(2):234-40.

Demographic review of a captive colony of callitrichids (Callithrix kuhlii).

Ross CN(1), Fite JE, Jensen H, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska at Lincoln, Lincoln, NE,
USA. rossc4@uthscsa.edu

Although reports on colony demographics for a variety of callitrichid species are
available in the literature, to date there has not been a detailed examination of
Wied's black tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix kuhlii). The purpose of this study
is to present colony demographics for C. kuhlii from the University of Nebraska
at Omaha's Callitrichid Research Center from 1991 to 2002. C. kuhlii are
currently held in a number of zoological parks in the United States and abroad;
however, the University of Nebraska at Omaha held the only breeding colony in
North America. Here we report data on lifespan, sex ratio, litter size, and
interbirth interval (IBI) for that captive breeding colony.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20367 
PMCID: PMC2980351
PMID: 17177315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

