

2450. J Eukaryot Microbiol. 2006;53 Suppl 1:S61-4.

Genotypes of Enterocytozoon bieneusi in mammals in Portugal.

Lobo ML(1), Xiao L, Cama V, Stevens T, Antunes F, Matos O.

Author information: 
(1)Unidade de Protozoários Oportunistas/VIH e outras Protozooses, UPMM, Instituto
de Higiene e Medicina Tropical, 96, 1349-008 Lisboa, Portugal.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1550-7408.2006.00174.x 
PMID: 17169069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2451. Xenobiotica. 2006 Dec;36(12):1210-26.

Marmoset CYP3A21, a model for human CYP3A4: protein expression and functional
characterization of the promoter.

Koehler SC(1), Von Ahsen N, Schlumbohm C, Asif AR, Goedtel-Armbrust U, Oellerich 
M, Wojnowski L, Armstrong VW.

Author information: 
(1)Klinische Chemie, Uni-Klinikum Göttingen, Robert-Koch-Strasse 40, 37075
Göttingen, Germany. koehler@med.uni-goettingen.de

Due to its small size and the relative evolutionary proximity, the marmoset has
been proposed as a model for studies of human drug interactions and metabolism.
The current study investigated the expression and regulation of marmoset CYP3A
using mass spectrometry and reporter gene techniques. Expression levels of
hepatic marmoset CYP3A protein range from 51 to 123 pmol mg-1 total protein (mean
85.2 pmol mg-1, n = 10) and CYP3A21 is the dominant hepatic CYP3A protein in
marmosets. The sequence similarity between human CYP3A4 and CYP3A21 across the
first 7.5 kb of the cloned CYP3A21 promoter is 88% within the
xenobiotic-responsive enhancer module (XREM) and the proximal promoter. Both
regulatory modules confer transcriptional activation of CYP3A21-luciferase
reporter gene constructs cotransfected with hPXR in intestinal LS174T cells. The 
pronounced response to rifampin and the moderate response to dexamethasone were
similar to those observed with CYP3A4. Taken collectively, these data establish
substantial similarities in expression and gene regulation between marmoset
CYP3A21 and human CYP3A4. CYP3A21 may be an equivalent of CYP3A4 in New World
monkeys, consistent with the phylogenetic relationship between these genes. The
marmoset, therefore, appears to be a suitable in vivo model to study CYP3A4
function and regulation.

DOI: 10.1080/00498250600962831 
PMID: 17162468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

