

2451. Xenobiotica. 2006 Dec;36(12):1210-26.

Marmoset CYP3A21, a model for human CYP3A4: protein expression and functional
characterization of the promoter.

Koehler SC(1), Von Ahsen N, Schlumbohm C, Asif AR, Goedtel-Armbrust U, Oellerich 
M, Wojnowski L, Armstrong VW.

Author information: 
(1)Klinische Chemie, Uni-Klinikum Göttingen, Robert-Koch-Strasse 40, 37075
Göttingen, Germany. koehler@med.uni-goettingen.de

Due to its small size and the relative evolutionary proximity, the marmoset has
been proposed as a model for studies of human drug interactions and metabolism.
The current study investigated the expression and regulation of marmoset CYP3A
using mass spectrometry and reporter gene techniques. Expression levels of
hepatic marmoset CYP3A protein range from 51 to 123 pmol mg-1 total protein (mean
85.2 pmol mg-1, n = 10) and CYP3A21 is the dominant hepatic CYP3A protein in
marmosets. The sequence similarity between human CYP3A4 and CYP3A21 across the
first 7.5 kb of the cloned CYP3A21 promoter is 88% within the
xenobiotic-responsive enhancer module (XREM) and the proximal promoter. Both
regulatory modules confer transcriptional activation of CYP3A21-luciferase
reporter gene constructs cotransfected with hPXR in intestinal LS174T cells. The 
pronounced response to rifampin and the moderate response to dexamethasone were
similar to those observed with CYP3A4. Taken collectively, these data establish
substantial similarities in expression and gene regulation between marmoset
CYP3A21 and human CYP3A4. CYP3A21 may be an equivalent of CYP3A4 in New World
monkeys, consistent with the phylogenetic relationship between these genes. The
marmoset, therefore, appears to be a suitable in vivo model to study CYP3A4
function and regulation.

DOI: 10.1080/00498250600962831 
PMID: 17162468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2452. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Dec 19;103(51):19512-7. Epub 2006 Dec 7.

Geniculocortical relay of blue-off signals in the primate visual system.

Szmajda BA(1), Buzás P, Fitzgibbon T, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, University of Melbourne,
Carlton VIC 3053, Australia.

A fundamental dichotomy in the subcortical visual system exists between on- and
off-type neurons, which respectively signal increases and decreases of light
intensity in the visual environment. In primates, signals for red-green color
vision are carried by both on- and off-type neurons in the parvocellular division
of the subcortical pathway. It is thought that on-type signals for blue-yellow
color vision are carried by cells in a distinct, diffusely projecting
(koniocellular) pathway, but the pathway taken by blue-off signals is not known. 
Here, we measured blue-off responses in the subcortical visual pathway of
marmoset monkeys. We found that the cells exhibiting blue-off responses are
largely segregated to the koniocellular pathway. The blue-off cells show
relatively large receptive fields, sluggish responses to maintained contrast,
little sign of an inhibitory receptive-field surround mechanism, and negligible
functional input from an intrinsic (melanopsin-based) phototransductive
mechanism. These properties are consistent with input from koniocellular or
"W-like" ganglion cells in the retina and suggest that blue-off cells, as
previously shown for blue-on cells, could contribute to cortical mechanisms for
visual perception via the koniocellular pathway.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0606970103 
PMCID: PMC1748257
PMID: 17158219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

