

2452. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Dec 19;103(51):19512-7. Epub 2006 Dec 7.

Geniculocortical relay of blue-off signals in the primate visual system.

Szmajda BA(1), Buz√°s P, Fitzgibbon T, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, University of Melbourne,
Carlton VIC 3053, Australia.

A fundamental dichotomy in the subcortical visual system exists between on- and
off-type neurons, which respectively signal increases and decreases of light
intensity in the visual environment. In primates, signals for red-green color
vision are carried by both on- and off-type neurons in the parvocellular division
of the subcortical pathway. It is thought that on-type signals for blue-yellow
color vision are carried by cells in a distinct, diffusely projecting
(koniocellular) pathway, but the pathway taken by blue-off signals is not known. 
Here, we measured blue-off responses in the subcortical visual pathway of
marmoset monkeys. We found that the cells exhibiting blue-off responses are
largely segregated to the koniocellular pathway. The blue-off cells show
relatively large receptive fields, sluggish responses to maintained contrast,
little sign of an inhibitory receptive-field surround mechanism, and negligible
functional input from an intrinsic (melanopsin-based) phototransductive
mechanism. These properties are consistent with input from koniocellular or
"W-like" ganglion cells in the retina and suggest that blue-off cells, as
previously shown for blue-on cells, could contribute to cortical mechanisms for
visual perception via the koniocellular pathway.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0606970103 
PMCID: PMC1748257
PMID: 17158219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2453. J Virol. 2007 Mar;81(5):2401-17. Epub 2006 Dec 6.

Intracellular Tat of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 activates lytic cycle
replication of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus: role of JAK/STAT
signaling.

Zeng Y(1), Zhang X, Huang Z, Cheng L, Yao S, Qin D, Chen X, Tang Q, Lv Z, Zhang
L, Lu C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing
210029, People's Republic of China.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection significantly increases the
risk of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) occurrence in individuals infected with Kaposi's
sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). KSHV infection appears to be necessary but
not sufficient for KS development without other cofactors. However, factors that 
facilitate KSHV to cause KS have not been well defined. Previously, we determined
that human herpesvirus 6 was one of the cofactors that activated lytic cycle
replication of KSHV. Here, we demonstrate that the Tat protein of HIV-1 is a
potentially important factor in the pathogenesis of KS, as determined by
production of lytic phase mRNA transcripts and viral proteins in BCBL-1 cells.
Mechanistic studies showed ectopic expression of Tat induced the production of
human interleukin-6 (huIL-6) and its receptor (huIL-6Ra) and activated STAT3
signaling. Neutralization of huIL-6 or huIL-6R or inhibition of STAT3 signaling
enhanced the replication. In addition, IL-4/STAT6 signaling also partially
contributed to Tat-induced KSHV replication. These findings suggest that Tat may 
participate in KS pathogenesis by inducing KSHV replication and increasing KSHV
viral load. These data also suggest that JAK/STAT signaling may be of therapeutic
value in AIDS-related KS patients.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02024-06 
PMCID: PMC1865948
PMID: 17151125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

