

2453. J Virol. 2007 Mar;81(5):2401-17. Epub 2006 Dec 6.

Intracellular Tat of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 activates lytic cycle
replication of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus: role of JAK/STAT
signaling.

Zeng Y(1), Zhang X, Huang Z, Cheng L, Yao S, Qin D, Chen X, Tang Q, Lv Z, Zhang
L, Lu C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing
210029, People's Republic of China.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection significantly increases the
risk of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) occurrence in individuals infected with Kaposi's
sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). KSHV infection appears to be necessary but
not sufficient for KS development without other cofactors. However, factors that 
facilitate KSHV to cause KS have not been well defined. Previously, we determined
that human herpesvirus 6 was one of the cofactors that activated lytic cycle
replication of KSHV. Here, we demonstrate that the Tat protein of HIV-1 is a
potentially important factor in the pathogenesis of KS, as determined by
production of lytic phase mRNA transcripts and viral proteins in BCBL-1 cells.
Mechanistic studies showed ectopic expression of Tat induced the production of
human interleukin-6 (huIL-6) and its receptor (huIL-6Ra) and activated STAT3
signaling. Neutralization of huIL-6 or huIL-6R or inhibition of STAT3 signaling
enhanced the replication. In addition, IL-4/STAT6 signaling also partially
contributed to Tat-induced KSHV replication. These findings suggest that Tat may 
participate in KS pathogenesis by inducing KSHV replication and increasing KSHV
viral load. These data also suggest that JAK/STAT signaling may be of therapeutic
value in AIDS-related KS patients.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02024-06 
PMCID: PMC1865948
PMID: 17151125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2454. Biol Lett. 2005 Jun 22;1(2):223-6.

The ecology and evolution of patience in two New World monkeys.

Stevens JR(1), Hallinan EV, Hauser MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Primate Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory,
Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. jstevens@wjh.harvard.edu

Decision making often involves choosing between small, short-term rewards and
large, long-term rewards. All animals, humans included, discount future
rewards--the present value of delayed rewards is viewed as less than the value of
immediate rewards. Despite its ubiquity, there exists considerable but
unexplained variation between species in their capacity to wait for rewards--that
is, to exert patience or self-control. Using two closely related primates--common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus)--we
uncover a variable that may explain differences in how species discount future
rewards. Both species faced a self-control paradigm in which individuals chose
between taking an immediate small reward and waiting a variable amount of time
for a large reward. Under these conditions, marmosets waited significantly longer
for food than tamarins. This difference cannot be explained by life history,
social behaviour or brain size. It can, however, be explained by feeding ecology:
marmosets rely on gum, a food product acquired by waiting for exudate to flow
from trees, whereas tamarins feed on insects, a food product requiring impulsive 
action. Foraging ecology, therefore, may provide a selective pressure for the
evolution of self-control.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2004.0285 
PMCID: PMC1626214
PMID: 17148172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

