

2455. Am J Primatol. 2007 Apr;69(4):420-33.

Radiographic evaluation of neonatal skeletal development in Callimico goeldii
reveals closer similarity to Callithrix jacchus than to Saguinus oedipus.

Hofmann MI(1), Schradin C, Geissmann T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
m.hofmann@anatom.unizh.ch

The phylogenetic affinities of the neotropical Goeldi's monkey (Callimico
goeldii) have long been a matter of debate. Whereas most morphological evidence
appears to place Callimico in a sister group position relative to the
Callitrichidae, genetic studies place C. goeldii within the Callitrichidae and
suggest that it is more closely related to marmosets than to tamarins. The
present study presents the first radiographic analysis comparing the secondary
limb bone ossification of newborn C. goeldii with representatives of the
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and tamarins (Saguinus oedipus). The state of
secondary ossification of the epiphysis and short bones is classified into three 
different ontogenetic stages. Our results reveal that in terms of the number of
ossification centers, C. goeldii is significantly closer to C. jacchus than to S.
oedipus. This is the first morphological study to support the findings of
molecular studies, and the results suggest that C. goeldii is more closely
related to marmosets than to tamarins.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20361 
PMID: 17146795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2456. FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol. 2007 Feb;49(1):62-7. Epub 2006 Nov 21.

Detection of four lymphotropic herpesviruses in Hungarian patients with multiple 
myeloma and lymphoma.

Csire M(1), Mikala G, Peto M, Jánosi J, Juhász A, Tordai A, Jákó J, Domján G,
Dolgos J, Berencsi G, Vályi-Nagy I.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Virology, National Center for Epidemiology, Budapest, Hungary.
csirem@oek.antsz.hu

It has been suggested that human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8), also known as KSHV
(Kaposi's sarcoma-associated human herpesvirus), might possess a promoting effect
in the development and progression of monoclonal gammopathies. In this study, the
presence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), human cytomegalovirus (CMV), human
herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) and human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) were tested in patients
with multiple myeloma (MM) using both serologic and nucleic acid amplification
techniques. The transient reactivation or continuous presence of EBV, CMV, HHV-6 
and HHV-8 could be detected in, respectively, 36, eight, 13 and 29 of 69 MM
patients; nine, one, four and six of 16 monoclonal gammopathy of unknown
significance patients; and seven, four, zero and five of 10 Waldenström's
macroglobulinemia patients. The total number of MM patients was 95. HHV-8
PCR-positivity was significantly more frequent in the MM group than in the
control group of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). However, serologic
testing did not reveal significant differences between the two patient groups.
The number of MM patients with concomitant herpesvirus infections as detected by 
PCR was as follows: 15 double, seven triple and two quadruple virus nucleic acid 
positive. In 13/95 MM patients, the simultaneous presence of acute EBV infection 
and HHV-8 PCR-positivity was detected compared with none of the control group
(P=0.009). These results indicate that in addition to HHV-8, the transitional
reactivation of EBV may also play a role in the pathogenesis of MM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-695X.2006.00171.x 
PMID: 17132141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

