

2458. J Physiol. 2007 Feb 15;579(Pt 1):29-51. Epub 2006 Nov 23.

Response variability of marmoset parvocellular neurons.

Victor JD(1), Blessing EM, Forte JD, Buz√°s P, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, New York, NY 10021, USA.

This study concerns the properties of neurons carrying signals for colour vision 
in primates. We investigated the variability of responses of individual
parvocellular lateral geniculate neurons of dichromatic and trichromatic
marmosets to drifting sinusoidal luminance and chromatic gratings. Response
variability was quantified by the cycle-to-cycle variation in Fourier components 
of the response. Averaged across the population, the variability at low contrasts
was greater than predicted by a Poisson process, and at high contrasts the
responses were approximately 40% more variable than responses at low contrasts.
The contrast-dependent increase in variability was nevertheless below that
expected from the increase in firing rate. Variability falls below the Poisson
prediction at high contrast, and intrinsic variability of the spike train
decreases as contrast increases. Thus, while deeply modulated responses in
parvocellular cells have a larger absolute variability than weakly modulated
ones, they have a more favourable signal: noise ratio than predicted by a Poisson
process. Similar results were obtained from a small sample of magnocellular and
koniocellular ('blue-on') neurons. For parvocellular neurons with pronounced
colour opponency, chromatic responses were, on average, less variable (10-15%,
p<0.01) than luminance responses of equal magnitude. Conversely, non-opponent
parvocellular neurons showed the opposite tendency. This is consistent with a
supra-additive noise source prior to combination of cone signals. In summary,
though variability of parvocellular neurons is largely independent of the way in 
which they combine cone signals, the noise characteristics of retinal circuitry
may augment specialization of parvocellular neurons to signal luminance or
chromatic contrast.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2006.122283 
PMCID: PMC2075379
PMID: 17124265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2459. Exp Neurol. 2007 Mar;204(1):162-70. Epub 2006 Nov 16.

Decreased expression of l-dopa-induced dyskinesia by switching to ropinirole in
MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Jackson MJ(1), Smith LA, Al-Barghouthy G, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Current concepts suggest that pulsatile stimulation of dopamine receptors
following L-dopa administration leads to priming for dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates, while continuous dopaminergic stimulation with long-acting dopamine
agonists does not. We investigated whether L-dopa-induced dyskinesia is reduced
by switching to a dopamine agonist. MPTP-treated marmosets received chronic
treatment with L-dopa or ropinirole in doses producing equivalent motor activity 
and reversal of motor deficits. Administration of L-dopa led to the rapid onset
of moderate to severe dyskinesia, whereas ropinirole produced only mild
dyskinesia. Animals initially treated with L-dopa were switched to an equivalent 
dose of ropinirole and those treated with ropinirole were switched to an
equivalent dose of L-dopa for 56 days. L-dopa-primed animals that were switched
to ropinirole showed a trend towards a reduction of dyskinesia intensity, whereas
animals initially treated with ropinirole and switched to L-dopa showed a trend
toward increased dyskinesia intensity. A subsequent, acute L-dopa challenge
reversed motor deficits and induced intense dyskinesia in both groups. This
suggests that L-dopa leads to the priming and expression of dyskinesia, but that 
expression is not maintained when switching to a long-acting dopamine agonist. In
contrast, dopamine agonists may prime for dyskinesia, but do not lead to its full
expression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2006.10.005 
PMID: 17113078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

