

2459. Exp Neurol. 2007 Mar;204(1):162-70. Epub 2006 Nov 16.

Decreased expression of l-dopa-induced dyskinesia by switching to ropinirole in
MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Jackson MJ(1), Smith LA, Al-Barghouthy G, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Current concepts suggest that pulsatile stimulation of dopamine receptors
following L-dopa administration leads to priming for dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates, while continuous dopaminergic stimulation with long-acting dopamine
agonists does not. We investigated whether L-dopa-induced dyskinesia is reduced
by switching to a dopamine agonist. MPTP-treated marmosets received chronic
treatment with L-dopa or ropinirole in doses producing equivalent motor activity 
and reversal of motor deficits. Administration of L-dopa led to the rapid onset
of moderate to severe dyskinesia, whereas ropinirole produced only mild
dyskinesia. Animals initially treated with L-dopa were switched to an equivalent 
dose of ropinirole and those treated with ropinirole were switched to an
equivalent dose of L-dopa for 56 days. L-dopa-primed animals that were switched
to ropinirole showed a trend towards a reduction of dyskinesia intensity, whereas
animals initially treated with ropinirole and switched to L-dopa showed a trend
toward increased dyskinesia intensity. A subsequent, acute L-dopa challenge
reversed motor deficits and induced intense dyskinesia in both groups. This
suggests that L-dopa leads to the priming and expression of dyskinesia, but that 
expression is not maintained when switching to a long-acting dopamine agonist. In
contrast, dopamine agonists may prime for dyskinesia, but do not lead to its full
expression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2006.10.005 
PMID: 17113078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2460. Cell Prolif. 2006 Dec;39(6):457-69.

High-potentiality preliminary selection criteria and transformation
time-dependent factors analysis for establishing Epstein-Barr virus transformed
human lymphoblastoid cell lines.

Chang IC(1), Wu JY, Lu HI, Ko HW, Kuo JL, Wang CY, Shen PS, Hwang SM.

Author information: 
(1)Bioresources Collection and Research Center, Food Industry Research and
Development Institute, Hsinchu 30062, Taiwan, ROC. icc19731004@hotmail.com

Infection of freshly isolated and cryopreserved lymphocytes with Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) leads to the establishment of human B lymphoblastoid cell lines
(LCLs). Techniques for optimal infection of the lymphocytes are vital for the
establishment of a human biobank. The present study found that more than half
(58-86%) of such established LCLs had transport times of less than 48 h, cell
densities exceeding 10(6) cells/ml and cell viabilities greater than 90%. After
EBV infection, 3306 freshly isolated lymphocytes required 30.0 +/- 0.1 days to
become LCLs. Conversely, 1210 cryopreserved lymphocytes required 36.2 +/- 0.4
days. Cell density and viability of the culture affected transformation time in
freshly isolated lymphocytes. On the other hand, blood transport time,
cryopreservation time and initial cell viability were major factors in
cryopreserved specimens. These results contribute to general information
concerning the establishment of a human biobank for EBV infected cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2184.2006.00404.x 
PMCID: PMC6496667
PMID: 17109631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

