

2464. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2006 Nov;56(Pt 11):2671-2676. doi:
10.1099/ijs.0.64378-0.

Pseudomonas simiae sp. nov., isolated from clinical specimens from monkeys
(Callithrix geoffroyi).

Vela AI(1), Gutiérrez MC(2), Falsen E(3), Rollán E(4), Simarro I(1), García P(4),
Domínguez L(1), Ventosa A(2), Fernández-Garayzábal JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento Sanidad Animal, Facultad de Veterinaria, Universidad Complutense,
Avda Puerta de Hierro s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Microbiología y Parasitología, Facultad de Farmacia, Sevilla, 
Spain.
(3)Culture Collection, Department of Clinical Bacteriology, University of
Göteborg, Sweden.
(4)Departamento de Medicina y Cirugía Animal, Facultad de Veterinaria,
Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain.

An unusual Gram-negative, catalase- and oxidase-positive, rod-shaped bacterium
isolated from different clinical samples from two monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi) 
was characterized by phenotypic and molecular genetic methods. The micro-organism
was tentatively identified as a Pseudomonas species on the basis of the results
of cellular morphological and biochemical tests. Fatty acid studies confirmed
this generic placement and comparative 16S rRNA gene sequencing studies
demonstrated that the unknown isolates were phylogenetically closely related to
each other (100% sequence similarity) and were part of the 'Pseudomonas
fluorescens intrageneric cluster'. The novel bacterium, however, was
distinguished from other phylogenetically related species of Pseudomonas by
DNA-DNA hybridization studies and biochemical tests. On the basis of both
phenotypic and phylogenetic findings, it is proposed that the novel Pseudomonas
isolates are classified as Pseudomonas simiae sp. nov. The type strain of P.
simiae is OLiT (=CCUG 50988T=CECT 7078T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijs.0.64378-0 
PMID: 17082409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2465. Virology. 2007 Mar 15;359(2):382-96. Epub 2006 Nov 1.

Characterization of the Epstein-Barr virus glycoprotein BMRF-2.

Xiao J(1), Palefsky JM, Herrera R, Tugizov SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) BMRF-2 protein interaction with the beta1 family of
integrins plays an important role in EBV infection of polarized oral epithelial
cells. In this work, we characterized BMRF-2 protein expression in EBV-infected B
lymphoblastoid and polarized oral epithelial cells, and in hairy leukoplakia (HL)
epithelium. BMRF-2 expression in B cells and polarized oral epithelial cells was 
associated with the EBV lytic infection. In these cells, BMRF-2 is efficiently
transported to the cell membrane and its integrin binding Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) motif
is exposed on the cell surface. BMRF-2 is highly expressed in HL epithelium and
accumulates at the lateral border of oral keratinocytes. In EBV-infected
polarized oral epithelial cells, this protein is transported to the basolateral
membranes and co-localized with beta1 integrin. These data suggest that BMRF-2
may play an important role in cell-to-cell spread of EBV within the oral
epithelium. BMRF-2 is glycosylated through O-linked oligosaccharides; it forms
oligomers and is associated with the virion envelope. Its C-terminal tail is
localized in the cytoplasm. We found that beta1, alpha5, and alpha3 integrins are
present in purified EBV virions. We show that BMRF-2 is a ligand for beta1,
alpha5, alpha3, and alphav integrins and our data are consistent with a role for 
BMRF-2 in viral lytic infection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2006.09.047 
PMID: 17081581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

