

2466. Am J Pathol. 2006 Nov;169(5):1671-85.

Phagocytes containing a disease-promoting Toll-like receptor/Nod ligand are
present in the brain during demyelinating disease in primates.

Visser L(1), Melief MJ, van Riel D, van Meurs M, Sick EA, Inamura S, Bajramovic
JJ, Amor S, Hintzen RQ, Boven LA, 't Hart BA, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus Medical Center, University Medical Center
Rotterdam, PO Box 2040, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Recent studies claim a central role for Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands in
stimulating autoimmune disease by activation of antigen-presenting cells in the
target organ, but it is unclear if and how TLR ligands reach target organs. Most 
evidence comes from rodent models, and it is uncertain whether this principle
holds in primates. Here we identify which cells contain peptidoglycan (PGN) in
multiple sclerosis brain and in two nonhuman primate experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) models with different disease courses: acute (rhesus
monkey) versus chronic disease (marmoset). Because persistence of TLR ligands in 
the central nervous system might be consequential for disease progression, we
also determined the expression of two major PGN-degrading enzymes, ie, lysozyme
and N-acetylmuramyl-l-alanine amidase. Distinct phagocyte subsets, including
granulocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells, contained PGN in the brain and
coexpressed the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-12. The number of phagocytes
carrying PGN increased in acute and chronic EAE compared with control animals,
with the highest number of PGN-containing cells in acute EAE brain. Lytic enzymes
were scarcely expressed in monkey and multiple sclerosis brain, favoring PGN
persistence. PGN stimulated interleukin-12p70 release by leukocytes from all
three primate species. The presence of PGN in the inflamed brain may have major
implications because TLR2/Nod ligation potentially promotes inflammation and
disease progression.

DOI: 10.2353/ajpath.2006.060143 
PMCID: PMC1780210
PMID: 17071591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2467. FASEB J. 2006 Dec;20(14):2582-4. Epub 2006 Oct 26.

An unusual mode of concerted evolution of the EGF-TM7 receptor chimera EMR2.

Kwakkenbos MJ(1), Matmati M, Madsen O, Pouwels W, Wang Y, Bontrop RE, Heidt PJ,
Hoek RM, Hamann J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Immunology, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, P.O. Box 22700, 1100 DE Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The epidermal growth factor (EGF)-TM7 receptors CD97, EMR1, EMR2, EMR3, and EMR4 
form a group of adhesion class heptahelical molecules predominantly expressed by 
cells of the immune system. These receptors bind cellular ligands through
EGF-like domains, localized N-terminal to a large extracellular region.
Remarkably, EMR2 possesses a chimeric structure with a seven-span transmembrane
(TM7) region most related to EMR3 and an EGF domain region nearly identical to
CD97. By comparing EGF-TM7 receptors in primates and dogs, we identified an
intriguing pattern of concerted evolution, apparently mediated by gene
conversion, among EMR2 and the oppositely orientated and physically adjacent
genes CD97 and EMR3. This concerted evolution has continuously maintained the
chimeric structure of EMR2 since early mammal radiation. Most highly conserved
between EMR2 and CD97 is the fourth EGF domain, which mediates binding to
chondroitin sulfate, a ligand specificity shared by both receptors. Another
ligand, CD55, is bound effectively only by CD97. We show that different molecular
mechanisms (mutations vs. alternative splicing) prevent CD55 binding by EMR2 in
hominoids. Our findings illustrate how various and partially opposing
evolutionary events have shaped the structure and ligand specificity of a modern 
mammalian gene family.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.06-6500fje 
PMID: 17068111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

