

2468. J Neurosci. 2006 Oct 25;26(43):11148-61.

Specificity of M and L cone inputs to receptive fields in the parvocellular
pathway: random wiring with functional bias.

Buz√°s P(1), Blessing EM, Szmajda BA, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

Many of the parvocellular pathway (PC) cells in primates show red-green spectral 
selectivity (cone opponency), but PC ganglion cells in the retina show no
anatomical signs of cone selectivity. Here we asked whether responses of PC cells
are compatible with "random wiring" of cone inputs. We measured
long-wavelength-sensitive (L) and medium-wavelength-sensitive (M) cone inputs to 
PC receptive fields in the dorsal lateral geniculate of marmosets, using discrete
stimuli (apertures and annuli) to achieve functional segregation of center and
surround. Receptive fields between the fovea and 30 degrees eccentricity were
measured. We show that, in opponent PC cells, the center is dominated by one (L
or M) cone type, with normally <20% contribution from the other cone type (high
"cone purity"), whereas non-opponent cells have mixed L and M cone inputs to the 
receptive field center. Furthermore, opponent response strength depends on the
overall segregation of L and M cone inputs to center and surround rather than
exclusive input from one cone type to either region. These data are consistent
with random wiring. The majority of PC cells in both foveal (<8 degrees) and
peripheral retina nevertheless show opponent responses. This arises because cone 
purity in the receptive field surround is at least as high as in the center, and 
the surround in nearly all opponent PC cells is dominated by the opposite cone
type to that which dominates the center. These functional biases increase the
proportion of opponent PC cells, but their anatomical basis is unclear.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3237-06.2006 
PMCID: PMC6674646
PMID: 17065455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2469. Int Immunopharmacol. 2006 Dec 5;6(12):1765-79. Epub 2006 Aug 23.

Multiple vaccine and pyridostigmine bromide interactions in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus: immunological and endocrinological effects.

Hornby RJ(1), Pearce PC, Bowditch AP, Scott L, Griffiths GD.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Department, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory,
Porton Down, Salisbury, UK.

Following active service during the 1990/1991 Gulf Conflict, a number of UK and
US veterans presented with a diverse range of symptoms, collectively known as
Gulf Veterans Illnesses (GVI). The administration of vaccines and/or the
pretreatment against possible nerve agent poisoning, pyridostigmine bromide (PB),
given to Armed Forces personnel during the Gulf Conflict has been implicated as a
possible factor in the aetiology of these illnesses. The possibility that adverse
health effects may result from the administration of these vaccines (anthrax,
pertussis, plague, yellow fever, polio, typhoid, tetanus, hepatitis B,
meningococcal meningitis and cholera) and/or PB, have been investigated over an
eighteen month period, in a non-human primate model, the common marmoset. This
study reports immunological indices, including leukocyte phenotypes,
intracellular cytokines IFN-gamma and IL-4 and antibody responses against vaccine
antigens. Using human isotyping reagents previously shown to cross react with
marmoset immunoglobulins (ibid) it was shown that marmosets responded strongly
against anthrax PA and pertussis and weakly against killed whole cell plague,
cholera and typhoid. At the end of the study the immune response to a previously 
unseen T-cell dependent antigen, keyhole limpet haemocyanin (KLH), was examined
in order to determine whether immune function had been compromised by the
compounds administered. Statistically equivalent, robust antibody responses were 
measured against KLH in all treatment groups indicating that the immune system
had not been compromised by any of the treatments. In addition, urinary cortisol 
was measured at key points throughout the study as an index of physiological
stress which may have been induced by the treatments. There were no effects of
treatment on urinary cortisol secretion. With respect to the other immunological 
indices measured, there were no statistical differences between the treatment
groups during the period of the study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2006.07.016 
PMID: 17052667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

