

2472. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Oct;24(8):2389-405. Epub 2006 Oct 17.

A distinct anatomical network of cortical areas for analysis of motion in far
peripheral vision.

Palmer SM(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

We defined cortical areas involved in the analysis of motion in the far
peripheral visual field, a poorly understood aspect of visual processing in
primates. This was accomplished by small tracer injections within and around the 
representations of the monocular field of vision ('temporal crescents') in the
middle temporal area (MT) of marmoset monkeys. Quantitative analyses demonstrate 
that the representation of the far periphery receives specific connections from
the retrosplenial cortex (areas 23v and prostriata), as well as comparatively
stronger inputs from the primary visual area (V1) and from areas surrounding MT
(in particular, the medial superior temporal area, MST). In contrast, the far
peripheral representation receives little or no input from most other
extrastriate areas, including the second visual area (V2), the densely myelinated
areas of the dorsomedial cortex, and ventral stream areas; these areas are shown 
to have robust projections to other parts of MT. Our results demonstrate that the
responses of cells in different parts of a same visual area can be determined by 
different combinations of synaptic inputs, in terms of areas of origin. They also
suggest that the interconnections responsible for motion processing in the far
periphery of the visual field convey information that is crucial for
rapid-response aspects of visual function such as orienting, postural and
defensive reactions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.05113.x 
PMID: 17042793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2473. Eur J Hum Genet. 2007 Jan;15(1):81-7. Epub 2006 Oct 11.

Repeat expansion in spinocerebellar ataxia type 17 alleles of the TATA-box
binding protein gene: an evolutionary approach.

Tomiuk J(1), Bachmann L, Bauer C, Rolfs A, Schöls L, Roos C, Zischler H, Schuler 
MM, Bruntner S, Riess O, Bauer P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Division of General Human Genetics, Institute 
of Human Genetics, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.

Erratum in
    Eur J Hum Genet. 2008 May;16(5):661.

The variability and mutational changes of the CAG microsatellite in the TATA-box 
binding protein gene (TBP) were studied. We sequenced the microsatellite of the
TBP gene of 25 unrelated individuals from northern Germany (10 SCA17 patients and
15 unaffected control individuals). In addition, the microsatellites were
sequenced from individuals of 10 northern German families with at least one
family member affected by SCA17. To study also the evolutionary history of this
CAG/CAA microsatellite in nonhuman primates, the homologous regions were analysed
from Pan troglodytes, Gorilla gorilla, Pongo pygmaeus, P. abellii, Hylobates lar,
Nomascus leucogenys, Symphalangus syndactylus, Macaca mulatta, Papio hamadryas,
Colobus polykomos and Callithrix jacchus. Three major conclusions were drawn: (i)
Patterns of synonymous CAA interruptions in the microsatellite are characteristic
and likely to result from selection for stabilizing the repetitive region; (ii)
Interspecific comparisons indicate that SCA17 is likely to be a human trait. The 
most common allele in humans (37 repeats) is close to the threshold value upon
which neurodegenerative changes can occur and may act as a repository for
expanded, pathogenic alleles; (iii) The cassette-like structure of five out of 17
expanded alleles can be attributed to unequal crossing over. This can explain the
rare and sporadic de novo generation of SCA17 alleles.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5201721 
PMID: 17033685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

