

2474. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Dec 1;499(4):677-89.

Transitory uptake of serotonin in the developing sensory pathways of the common
marmoset.

Lebrand C(1), Gaspar P, Nicolas D, Hornung JP.

Author information: 
(1)DBCM, Université de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland, INSERM U616, Hôpital de
la Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

Serotonin (5-HT) affects brain development during sensitive developmental
periods. In rodents, transient sites of high affinity capture of 5-HT were
demonstrated in the primary sensory neurons and in the sensory thalamocortical
afferents. This uptake is required to adjust 5-HT receptor stimulation during the
formation of sensory maps. To determine whether similar mechanisms exist in
primates, we analyzed staged embryos and postnatal pups in the common marmoset
(total gestation time, 142 days). Immunocytochemical analyses were performed
using antisera to 5-HT, to the serotonin transporter (SERT), and to the vesicular
monoamine transporter (VMAT2). 5-HT, SERT, and VMAT2 labeled the raphe neurons
and their terminal network from embryonic day (E)70 to adulthood. In addition,
from E70-130 VMAT2 and SERT were observed in all the sensory cranial nerves, the 
olfactory nerve, the gustatory, the trigeminal, the auditory fibers, in the
retinal ganglion cells, and the optic tract up to the lateral geniculate nucleus 
and the superior colliculus. All the spinal sensory ganglia and their peripheral 
sensory branches were labeled. Accumulation of 5-HT was observed in all the
sensory neurons expressing SERT and the corresponding axon tracts. Since these
neurons were missing tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), the synthesizing enzyme for
5-HT, they most likely accumulated 5-HT through the action of the amine
transporters, as has been shown in rodents. No transient expression of 5-HT
markers was detectable in the sensory thalamocortical axons at any of the ages
examined. Thus, the existence of 5-HT uptake in nonserotoninergic neurons appears
to be a conserved feature in primates, although the topographic extent of this
transient expression is more restricted than that previously demonstrated in
rodents.

Copyright (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21137 
PMID: 17029254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2475. Vis Neurosci. 2006 Sep-Oct;23(5):815-24.

Processing of first-order motion in marmoset visual cortex is influenced by
second-order motion.

Barraclough N(1), Tinsley C, Webb B, Vincent C, Derrington A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Hull, East Yorkshire, United Kingdom. 
n.barraclough@hull.ac.uk

We measured the responses of single neurons in marmoset visual cortex (V1, V2,
and the third visual complex) to moving first-order stimuli and to combined
first- and second-order stimuli in order to determine whether first-order motion 
processing was influenced by second-order motion. Beat stimuli were made by
summing two gratings of similar spatial frequency, one of which was static and
the other was moving. The beat is the product of a moving sinusoidal carrier
(first-order motion) and a moving low-frequency contrast envelope (second-order
motion). We compared responses to moving first-order gratings alone with
responses to beat patterns with first-order and second-order motion in the same
direction as each other, or in opposite directions to each other in order to
distinguish first-order and second-order direction-selective responses. In the
majority (72%, 67/93) of cells (V1 73%, 45/62; V2 70%, 16/23; third visual
complex 75%, 6/8), responses to first-order motion were significantly influenced 
by the addition of a second-order signal. The second-order envelope was more
influential when moving in the opposite direction to the first-order stimulus,
reducing first-order direction sensitivity in V1, V2, and the third visual
complex. We interpret these results as showing that first-order motion processing
through early visual cortex is not separate from second-order motion processing; 
suggesting that both motion signals are processed by the same system.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523806230141 
PMID: 17020636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

