

2475. Vis Neurosci. 2006 Sep-Oct;23(5):815-24.

Processing of first-order motion in marmoset visual cortex is influenced by
second-order motion.

Barraclough N(1), Tinsley C, Webb B, Vincent C, Derrington A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Hull, East Yorkshire, United Kingdom. 
n.barraclough@hull.ac.uk

We measured the responses of single neurons in marmoset visual cortex (V1, V2,
and the third visual complex) to moving first-order stimuli and to combined
first- and second-order stimuli in order to determine whether first-order motion 
processing was influenced by second-order motion. Beat stimuli were made by
summing two gratings of similar spatial frequency, one of which was static and
the other was moving. The beat is the product of a moving sinusoidal carrier
(first-order motion) and a moving low-frequency contrast envelope (second-order
motion). We compared responses to moving first-order gratings alone with
responses to beat patterns with first-order and second-order motion in the same
direction as each other, or in opposite directions to each other in order to
distinguish first-order and second-order direction-selective responses. In the
majority (72%, 67/93) of cells (V1 73%, 45/62; V2 70%, 16/23; third visual
complex 75%, 6/8), responses to first-order motion were significantly influenced 
by the addition of a second-order signal. The second-order envelope was more
influential when moving in the opposite direction to the first-order stimulus,
reducing first-order direction sensitivity in V1, V2, and the third visual
complex. We interpret these results as showing that first-order motion processing
through early visual cortex is not separate from second-order motion processing; 
suggesting that both motion signals are processed by the same system.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523806230141 
PMID: 17020636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2476. Arch Virol. 2007 Feb;152(2):329-43. Epub 2006 Oct 6.

Transient and stable expression of the HCV envelope glycoproteins in cell lines
and primary hepatocytes transduced with a recombinant baculovirus.

Martyn JC(1), Dong X, Holmes-Brown S, Pribul P, Li S, Drummer HE, Gowans EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research and Public Health, Melbourne,
Australia. martyn@burnet.edu.au

A recombinant baculovirus, RecBV-E, encoding the hepatitis C virus (HCV) envelope
proteins, E1 and E2, controlled by the cytomegalovirus promoter was constructed. 
RecBVs can infect mammalian cells, but fail to express proteins or replicate
because the viral DNA promoters are not recognised. The RecBV-E transduced 86% of
Huh7 cells and 22% of primary marmoset hepatocytes compared with 35% and 0.4%,
respectively, after DNA transfection. Several stable cell lines were generated
that constitutively expressed E1/E2 in every cell. No evidence of E1/E2-related
apoptosis was noted, and the doubling times of cells were similar to that of the 
parental cells. A proportion of the E1/E2 was expressed on the surface of the
stable cells as determined by flow cytometry and was detected by a
conformation-dependent monoclonal antibody. It is likely that the continued
expression of E1/E2 in the stable cells resulted from integration of the RecBV
DNA. Infection of Huh7 cells, in the absence of G418 selection, failed to result 
in expression of the foreign gene (in this case, eGFP) beyond 14-18 days. RecBVs 
that express HCV genes from a CMV promoter represent an effective means by which 
to transduce primary hepatocytes for expression and replication studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00705-006-0845-5 
PMID: 17019531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

