

2477. Dev Psychobiol. 2006 Nov;48(7):551-60.

Head-cocking as a form of exploration in the common marmoset and its development.

Kaplan G(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW-2351, Australia. gkaplan@une.edu.au

Head-cocking of 15 infant marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) was scored from Day 1 to
60 of postnatal life, the growth period with overproduction of interneuronal
synapses. Head-cocking was scored during four 30 min intervals daily, including
angle of head-cocking and objects being fixated. Mean age of onset of
head-cocking was Day 13 (+/-1.3) and frequency increased to a fixed rate by Day
24-29, at the time of maturation of the foveal representation in layer 6 of the
visual cortex, thus lending further support to the importance of head-cocking to 
visual processing. The most common distance of objects fixated during
head-cocking was up to .5 m. Angle of head-cocking increased with age, and some
asymmetry of direction was noted. Fewer head-cocking events occurred in the
morning than in the afternoon. We also scored anogenital licking of offspring.
Head-cocking occurred at higher levels in marmosets receiving more anogenital
licking. As this was associated positively with increased exploration,
head-cocking may be regarded as an exploratory behavior.

(c) 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.20155 
PMID: 17016839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2478. Antiviral Res. 2007 Feb;73(2):101-11. Epub 2006 Sep 5.

Immunogenicity of a chimeric hepatitis A virus (HAV) carrying the HIV gp41
epitope 2F5.

Kusov YY(1), Zamjatina NA, Poleschuk VF, Michailov MI, Morace G, Eberle J,
Gauss-M端ller V.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Molecular Biology, University of L端beck, Ratzeburger
Allee 160, D-23538 L端beck, Germany. koussov@molbio.uni-luebeck.de

Its stable particle structure combined with its high immunogenicity makes the
hepatitis A virus (HAV) a perfect carrier to expose foreign epitopes to the host 
immune system. In an earlier report [Beneduce, F., Kusov, Y., Klinger, M.,
Gauss-M端ller, V., Morace, G., 2002. Chimeric hepatitis A virus particles
presenting a foreign epitope (HIV gp41) at their surface. Antiviral Res. 55,
369-377] chimeric virus-like particles (HAV-gp41) were described that carried at 
their surface the dominant gp41 epitope 2F5 (2F5e) of the human immunodeficiency 
virus HIV-1. Extending this work, we now report that chimeric virus HAV-gp41
replicates in HAV-susceptible cells as well as in non-human primates. Infected
marmosets developed both an anti-HAV and anti-2F5 epitope immune response.
Furthermore, an HIV-neutralizing antibody response was elicited in guinea pigs
immunized with HAV-gp41 chimeric particles. The results demonstrate that the
replication-competent chimeric HAV-gp41 can serve as either a live or a subunit
vaccine for eliciting of antibodies directed against a foreign antigenic epitope.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2006.08.003 
PMID: 17014915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

