

2478. Antiviral Res. 2007 Feb;73(2):101-11. Epub 2006 Sep 5.

Immunogenicity of a chimeric hepatitis A virus (HAV) carrying the HIV gp41
epitope 2F5.

Kusov YY(1), Zamjatina NA, Poleschuk VF, Michailov MI, Morace G, Eberle J,
Gauss-M端ller V.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Molecular Biology, University of L端beck, Ratzeburger
Allee 160, D-23538 L端beck, Germany. koussov@molbio.uni-luebeck.de

Its stable particle structure combined with its high immunogenicity makes the
hepatitis A virus (HAV) a perfect carrier to expose foreign epitopes to the host 
immune system. In an earlier report [Beneduce, F., Kusov, Y., Klinger, M.,
Gauss-M端ller, V., Morace, G., 2002. Chimeric hepatitis A virus particles
presenting a foreign epitope (HIV gp41) at their surface. Antiviral Res. 55,
369-377] chimeric virus-like particles (HAV-gp41) were described that carried at 
their surface the dominant gp41 epitope 2F5 (2F5e) of the human immunodeficiency 
virus HIV-1. Extending this work, we now report that chimeric virus HAV-gp41
replicates in HAV-susceptible cells as well as in non-human primates. Infected
marmosets developed both an anti-HAV and anti-2F5 epitope immune response.
Furthermore, an HIV-neutralizing antibody response was elicited in guinea pigs
immunized with HAV-gp41 chimeric particles. The results demonstrate that the
replication-competent chimeric HAV-gp41 can serve as either a live or a subunit
vaccine for eliciting of antibodies directed against a foreign antigenic epitope.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2006.08.003 
PMID: 17014915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2479. Biochem Pharmacol. 2006 Dec 15;72(12):1738-48. Epub 2006 Sep 29.

Cloning of a cDNA encoding a novel marmoset CYP2C enzyme, expression in yeast
cells and characterization of its enzymatic functions.

Narimatsu S(1), Torigoe F, Tsuneto Y, Saito K, Hanioka N, Masuda K, Katsu T,
Yamamoto S, Yamano S, Baba T, Miyata A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Health Chemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Okayama
700-8530, Japan. shizuo@pharm.okayama-u.ac.jp

We cloned a cDNA encoding a novel CYP2C enzyme, called P450 M-2C, from a marmoset
liver. The deduced amino acid sequence showed high identities to those of human
CYP2C8 (87%), CYP2C9 (78%) and CYP2C19 (77%). The P450 M-2C enzyme expressed in
yeast cells catalyzed p-methylhydroxylation of only tolbutamide among four
substrates tested, paclitaxel as a CYP2C8 substrate, diclofenac and tolbutamide
as CYP2C9 substrates and S-mephenytoin as a CYP2C19 substrate.
p-Methylhydroxylation of tolbutamide by marmoset liver microsomes showed
monophasic kinetics, and the apparent K(m) value (1.2 mM) for the substrate was
similar to that of the recombinant P450 M-2C (1.8 mM). Although all of the
recombinant human CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 expressed in yeast cells catalyzed
tolbutamide p-methylhydroxylation, the kinetic profile of CYP2C8 was most similar
to that of P450 M-2C. Tolbutamide oxidation by the marmoset liver microsomes and 
the recombinant P450 M-2C was inhibited most effectively by quercetin, a CYP2C8
inhibitor, followed by omeprazole, a CYP2C19 inhibitor, whereas sulfaphenazole, a
CYP2C9 inhibitor, was less potent under the conditions used. These results
indicate that P450 M-2C is the major tolbutamide p-methylhydroxylase in the
marmoset liver.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2006.08.025 
PMID: 17010942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

