

2479. Biochem Pharmacol. 2006 Dec 15;72(12):1738-48. Epub 2006 Sep 29.

Cloning of a cDNA encoding a novel marmoset CYP2C enzyme, expression in yeast
cells and characterization of its enzymatic functions.

Narimatsu S(1), Torigoe F, Tsuneto Y, Saito K, Hanioka N, Masuda K, Katsu T,
Yamamoto S, Yamano S, Baba T, Miyata A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Health Chemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Okayama
700-8530, Japan. shizuo@pharm.okayama-u.ac.jp

We cloned a cDNA encoding a novel CYP2C enzyme, called P450 M-2C, from a marmoset
liver. The deduced amino acid sequence showed high identities to those of human
CYP2C8 (87%), CYP2C9 (78%) and CYP2C19 (77%). The P450 M-2C enzyme expressed in
yeast cells catalyzed p-methylhydroxylation of only tolbutamide among four
substrates tested, paclitaxel as a CYP2C8 substrate, diclofenac and tolbutamide
as CYP2C9 substrates and S-mephenytoin as a CYP2C19 substrate.
p-Methylhydroxylation of tolbutamide by marmoset liver microsomes showed
monophasic kinetics, and the apparent K(m) value (1.2 mM) for the substrate was
similar to that of the recombinant P450 M-2C (1.8 mM). Although all of the
recombinant human CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 expressed in yeast cells catalyzed
tolbutamide p-methylhydroxylation, the kinetic profile of CYP2C8 was most similar
to that of P450 M-2C. Tolbutamide oxidation by the marmoset liver microsomes and 
the recombinant P450 M-2C was inhibited most effectively by quercetin, a CYP2C8
inhibitor, followed by omeprazole, a CYP2C19 inhibitor, whereas sulfaphenazole, a
CYP2C9 inhibitor, was less potent under the conditions used. These results
indicate that P450 M-2C is the major tolbutamide p-methylhydroxylase in the
marmoset liver.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2006.08.025 
PMID: 17010942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2480. J Mol Evol. 2006 Nov;63(5):591-601. Epub 2006 Sep 26.

Evolution of growth hormone in primates: the GH gene clusters of the New World
monkeys marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and white-fronted capuchin (Cebus
albifrons).

Wallis OC(1), Wallis M.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Department, School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex,
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK.

The GH gene cluster in marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, comprises eight GH-like
genes and pseudogenes and appears to have arisen as a consequence of gene
duplications occurring independently of those leading to the human GH gene
cluster. We report here the complete sequence of the marmoset GH gene locus,
including the intergenic regions and 5' and 3' flanking sequence, and a study of 
the multiple GH-like genes of an additional New World monkey (NWM), the
white-fronted capuchin, Cebus albifrons. The marmoset sequence includes 945
nucleotides (nt) of 5' flanking sequence and 1596 nt of 3' flanking sequence that
are "unique"; between these are eight repeat units, including the eight GH
genes/pseudogenes. The breakpoints between these repeats are very similar,
indicating a regular pattern of gene duplication. These breakpoints do not
correspond to those found in the much less regular human GH gene cluster. This
and phylogenetic analysis of the repeat units within the marmoset gene cluster
strongly support the independent origin of these gene clusters, and the idea that
the episode of rapid evolution that occurred during GH evolution in primates
preceded the gene duplications. The marmoset GH gene cluster also differs from
that of human in having fewer and more evenly distributed Alu sequences (a single
pair in each repeat unit) and a "P-element" upstream of every gene/pseudogene. In
human there is no P-element upstream of the gene encoding pituitary GH, and these
elements have been implicated in placental expression of the other genes of the
cluster. The GH gene clusters in marmoset and capuchin appear to have arisen as
the consequence of a single-gene duplication event, but in capuchin there was
then a remarkable expansion of the GH locus, giving at least 40 GH-like genes and
pseudogenes. Thus even among NWMs the GH gene cluster is very variable.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-006-0039-5 
PMID: 17009125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

