

2482. J Acoust Soc Am. 2006 Sep;120(3):1655-70.

Acoustic analysis of vocal development in a New World primate, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Pistorio AL(1), Vintch B, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

In contrast to humans and songbirds, there is limited evidence of vocal learning 
in nonhuman primates. While previous studies suggested that primate vocalizations
exhibit developmental changes, detailed analyses of the extent and time course of
such changes across a species' vocal repertoire remain limited. In a highly vocal
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), we studied developmental
changes in the acoustic structure of species-specific communication sounds
produced in a social setting. We performed detailed acoustic analyses of the
spectral and temporal characteristics of marmoset vocalizations during
development, comparing differences between genders and twin pairs, as well as
with vocalizations from adult marmosets residing in the same colony. Our analyses
revealed significant changes in spectral and temporal features as well as
variability of particular call types over time. Infant and juvenile vocalizations
changed progressively toward the vocalizations produced by adult marmosets. Call 
types observed early in development that were unique to infants disappeared
gradually with age, while vocal exchanges with conspecifics emerged. Our
observations clearly indicate that marmoset vocalizations undergo both
qualitative and quantitative postnatal changes, establishing the basis for
further studies to delineate contributions from maturation of the vocal apparatus
and behavioral experience.

DOI: 10.1121/1.2225899 
PMID: 17004487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2483. ChemMedChem. 2006 Nov;1(11):1237-48.

Protein-structure-based prediction of animal model suitability for
pharmacodynamic studies of subtype-selective estrogens.

Toschi L(1), Hilbig J, Wintermantel T, Engelhaupt A, Walter A, Fritzemeier KH,
Hillisch A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genomics and Bioinformatics, Schering AG, MÃ¼llerstrasse 170-178,
13342 Berlin, Germany. luisella.toschi@schering.de

Subtype-selective estrogens are of increasing importance as tools used to unravel
physiological roles of the estrogen receptors, ERalpha and ERbeta, in various
species. Although human ERalpha and ERbeta differ by only two amino acids within 
the binding pockets, we and others recently succeeded in generating
subtype-selective agonists. We have proposed that the selectivity of the
steroidal compounds 16alpha-lactone-estradiol (16alpha-LE(2), hERalpha selective)
and 8beta-vinyl-estradiol (8beta-VE(2), hERbeta selective) is based on the
interaction of certain substituents of these compounds with essentially one amino
acid in the respective ER binding pockets. For in vitro and ex vivo
pharmacological experiments with these compounds we intended to use bovine
tissues available from slaughterhouses in larger quantities. Using homology
modeling techniques we determined that the amino acid conferring high
hERbeta-selectivity to 8beta-VE(2) is not exchanged between human and bovine
ERalpha and bovine ERbeta. Thus, we predicted our steroidal hERbeta-selective
compound to exhibit only weak agonistic activity at bERbeta and that bovine
tissue is therefore not suited for investigation of ERbeta functions. The
situation is presumably identical for pig, sheep, and the common marmoset,
whereas rats, mice, and rhesus macaques are appropriate animal models to study
pharmacological effects of 8beta-VE(2) in vivo. This prediction was confirmed in 
transactivation studies assessing estradiol (E(2)) and the two subtype-selective 
ligands on bovine ERbeta and on a series of hERalpha and hERbeta with mutations
in their respective ligand-binding pockets. We have shown that the detailed
understanding of the interactions of a compound with its target protein enables
the identification of relevant species for pharmacological studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cmdc.200600183 
PMID: 17001712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

