

2483. ChemMedChem. 2006 Nov;1(11):1237-48.

Protein-structure-based prediction of animal model suitability for
pharmacodynamic studies of subtype-selective estrogens.

Toschi L(1), Hilbig J, Wintermantel T, Engelhaupt A, Walter A, Fritzemeier KH,
Hillisch A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genomics and Bioinformatics, Schering AG, MÃ¼llerstrasse 170-178,
13342 Berlin, Germany. luisella.toschi@schering.de

Subtype-selective estrogens are of increasing importance as tools used to unravel
physiological roles of the estrogen receptors, ERalpha and ERbeta, in various
species. Although human ERalpha and ERbeta differ by only two amino acids within 
the binding pockets, we and others recently succeeded in generating
subtype-selective agonists. We have proposed that the selectivity of the
steroidal compounds 16alpha-lactone-estradiol (16alpha-LE(2), hERalpha selective)
and 8beta-vinyl-estradiol (8beta-VE(2), hERbeta selective) is based on the
interaction of certain substituents of these compounds with essentially one amino
acid in the respective ER binding pockets. For in vitro and ex vivo
pharmacological experiments with these compounds we intended to use bovine
tissues available from slaughterhouses in larger quantities. Using homology
modeling techniques we determined that the amino acid conferring high
hERbeta-selectivity to 8beta-VE(2) is not exchanged between human and bovine
ERalpha and bovine ERbeta. Thus, we predicted our steroidal hERbeta-selective
compound to exhibit only weak agonistic activity at bERbeta and that bovine
tissue is therefore not suited for investigation of ERbeta functions. The
situation is presumably identical for pig, sheep, and the common marmoset,
whereas rats, mice, and rhesus macaques are appropriate animal models to study
pharmacological effects of 8beta-VE(2) in vivo. This prediction was confirmed in 
transactivation studies assessing estradiol (E(2)) and the two subtype-selective 
ligands on bovine ERbeta and on a series of hERalpha and hERbeta with mutations
in their respective ligand-binding pockets. We have shown that the detailed
understanding of the interactions of a compound with its target protein enables
the identification of relevant species for pharmacological studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cmdc.200600183 
PMID: 17001712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2484. Mov Disord. 2006 Dec;21(12):2090-5.

Antiparkinsonian effects of the novel D3/D2 dopamine receptor agonist, S32504, in
MPTP-lesioned marmosets: Mediation by D2, not D3, dopamine receptors.

Hill MP(1), Ravenscroft P, McGuire SG, Brotchie JM, Crossman AR, Rochat C, Millan
MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience, Ltd., Manchester, United Kingdom. m.hill@motac.com

L-dopa remains the most common treatment for Parkinson's disease. However, there 
is considerable interest in D3/D2 receptor agonists such as the novel agent
S32504, since they exert antiparkinsonian properties in the absence of
dyskinesia. An important question concerns the roles of D2 vs. D3 receptors, an
issue we addressed with the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease. In L-dopa-primed
animals, S32504 (0.16-2.5 mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently enhanced locomotor
activity. This action was abolished by the D2 antagonist, L741,626 (2.5 mg/kg),
but potentiated by the D3 antagonist, S33084 (0.63 mg/kg). Both antagonists were 
inactive alone. In drug-naive animals, a maximally effective dose of S32504 (2.5 
mg/kg p.o.) displayed pronounced antiparkinsonian properties from the third day
of administration, and its actions were expressed rapidly and durably. Thus, on
day 33, antiparkinsonian properties of S32504 were apparent within 5 minutes and 
present for > 4 hours. Moreover, they were associated with neither wearing off
nor significant dyskinesia. In conclusion, the novel D3/D2 agonist S32504 may
offer advantages over L-dopa in the treatment of newly diagnosed parkinsonian
patients. Its actions are expressed primarily by activation of D2, not D3,
receptors.

Copyright 2006 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21106 
PMID: 16991143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

