

2484. Mov Disord. 2006 Dec;21(12):2090-5.

Antiparkinsonian effects of the novel D3/D2 dopamine receptor agonist, S32504, in
MPTP-lesioned marmosets: Mediation by D2, not D3, dopamine receptors.

Hill MP(1), Ravenscroft P, McGuire SG, Brotchie JM, Crossman AR, Rochat C, Millan
MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience, Ltd., Manchester, United Kingdom. m.hill@motac.com

L-dopa remains the most common treatment for Parkinson's disease. However, there 
is considerable interest in D3/D2 receptor agonists such as the novel agent
S32504, since they exert antiparkinsonian properties in the absence of
dyskinesia. An important question concerns the roles of D2 vs. D3 receptors, an
issue we addressed with the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease. In L-dopa-primed
animals, S32504 (0.16-2.5 mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently enhanced locomotor
activity. This action was abolished by the D2 antagonist, L741,626 (2.5 mg/kg),
but potentiated by the D3 antagonist, S33084 (0.63 mg/kg). Both antagonists were 
inactive alone. In drug-naive animals, a maximally effective dose of S32504 (2.5 
mg/kg p.o.) displayed pronounced antiparkinsonian properties from the third day
of administration, and its actions were expressed rapidly and durably. Thus, on
day 33, antiparkinsonian properties of S32504 were apparent within 5 minutes and 
present for > 4 hours. Moreover, they were associated with neither wearing off
nor significant dyskinesia. In conclusion, the novel D3/D2 agonist S32504 may
offer advantages over L-dopa in the treatment of newly diagnosed parkinsonian
patients. Its actions are expressed primarily by activation of D2, not D3,
receptors.

Copyright 2006 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21106 
PMID: 16991143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2485. Neurosci Lett. 2006 Nov 13;408(2):89-93. Epub 2006 Sep 18.

Time-dependent increase in Nogo-A expression after focal cerebral ischemia in
marmoset monkeys.

Eslamboli A(1), Grundy RI, Irving EA.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology and GI CEDD, GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park North,
Third Avenue, Harlow, Essex CM19 5AW, United Kingdom.

Nogo-A is a myelin-associated protein that has been shown to inhibit axonal
sprouting after lesions to the CNS. Several studies have demonstrated that
blocking the activity or expression of this inhibitor can induce structural and
functional recovery after CNS lesions. However, there are limited and
contradictory data on the expression of Nogo-A after CNS lesions. In the present 
study, marmoset monkeys received permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral
artery (MCAo). Two, 3, or 4 months after the onset of injury brain sections were 
stained for Nogo-A protein. Two sham operated marmosets were included as a
control. Nogo-A protein expression was quantified in white matter and grey matter
in the areas adjacent to the lesion (or the equivalent areas in the intact side).
At 2 months after injury, but not at 3 or 4 months, there was a significant
increase in the number of oligodendrocytes that were Nogo-A immunopositive. This 
increase was observed in white matter structures that were adjacent to the lesion
(e.g. corona radiate (CR)); but not in: white matter structures distal to the
lesion (e.g. corpus callosum (CC)); cortical regions adjacent to the lesion;
contralateral regions or in sham operated marmosets. These data suggest that
Nogo-A levels are significantly increased within oligodendrocytes in areas
adjacent to the lesion up to 2 months following cerebral ischaemia. Future
studies will determine whether this offers the opportunity to promote plasticity 
by targeting Nogo-A weeks or months following stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2006.08.056 
PMID: 16982144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

