

2488. Vet Pathol. 2006 Sep;43(5):777-9.

Natural occurrence of amyloid-Abeta deposits in the brain of young common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): a morphological and immunohistochemical
evaluation.

Palazzi X(1), Switzer R, George C.

Author information: 
(1)Pfizer PGRD Amboise, BP 159, ZI de Poc√© sur Cisse, 37401 Amboise Cedex,
France. xavier.palazzi@pfizer.com

The spontaneous incidence and distribution of beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide and
argyrophilic deposits were extensively investigated in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). In 12 young marmosets, up to 67 coronal step sections were 
evaluated in the brain. One brain hemisphere was stained by a silver method and
also immunohistochemically with a primary antibody directed against Abeta.
Argyrophilic deposits were observed in 4 (33%) of 12 animals with silver stain,
and Abeta was seen in 4 (33%) of 12 animals with anti-4G8 antibody. The overall
incidence was 6 (50%) of 12 affected animals. These results show that the young
marmoset brain displays Abeta deposits at a low incidence and that
immunohistochemistry is more suitable than silver staining to reveal rare amyloid
plaques. These findings also provide evidence for the early onset of amyloid
deposits in marmoset brain.

DOI: 10.1354/vp.43-5-777 
PMID: 16966460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2489. ILAR J. 2006;47(4):307-15.

Preparing New World monkeys for laboratory research.

Tardif S(1), Bales K, Williams L, Moeller EL, Abbott D, Schultz-Darken N, Mendoza
S, Mason W, Bourgeois S, Ruiz J.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center (SNPRC), San Antonio, TX, USA.
stardif@sfbr.org

New World monkeys represent an important but often poorly understood research
resource. The relatively small size and low zoonotic risk of these animals make
them appealing as research subjects in a number of areas. However, historic
portrayal of many of these species as difficult to manage and handle is one of
the factors that has limited their use. Basic guidelines are provided on
management and handling approaches for the New World monkeys most commonly used
in research: marmosets, squirrel monkeys, owl monkeys, and titi monkeys. Topics
include transport and acclimation to a new facility, location changes within a
facility, diet changes, removal from and return to social groups, capture and
restraint, handling for anesthesia, postprocedural monitoring, and staff
training.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.47.4.307 
PMID: 16963811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

