

2492. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2006 Dec;319(3):1225-34. Epub 2006 Sep 7.

In 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated primates, the selective
5-hydroxytryptamine 1a agonist (R)-(+)-8-OHDPAT inhibits levodopa-induced
dyskinesia but only with\ increased motor disability.

Iravani MM(1), Tayarani-Binazir K, Chu WB, Jackson MJ, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom. m.iravani@kcl.ac.uk

5-Hydroxytryptamine 1a (5-HT(1a)) receptor agonists, such as sarizotan and
tandospirone, are reported to reduce levodopa-induced dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated macaques and in
Parkinson's disease without worsening motor disability. However, these compounds 
are not specific for 5-HT(1a) receptors and also possess dopamine antagonist
actions. We now report on the effects of
(2R)-(+)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin [(R)-(+)-8-OHDPAT], a selective
5-HT(1a) agonist lacking dopaminergic activity, on motor disability and
dyskinesia (chorea and dystonia) in levodopa-primed MPTP-treated common
marmosets. Administration of (R)-(+)-8-OHDPAT (0.2, 0.6, and 2.0 mg/kg s.c), in
conjunction with levodopa/carbidopa (12.5 mg/kg each p.o.) to levodopa-primed
animals, dose-dependently reduced levodopa-induced chorea but did not affect
dystonic movements. However, (R)-(+)-8-OHDPAT treatment also reduced locomotor
activity and the reversal of motor disability. Administration of (R)-(+)-8-OHDPAT
alone had no effects of motor behaviors. The effects of (R)-(+)-8-OHDPAT on
levodopa-induced motor behaviors were antagonized by the 5-HT(1a) receptor
antagonist
N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamid
e maleate (WAY-100635) (1.0 mg/kg s.c.). Administration of (R)-(+)-8-OHDPAT (0.6 
mg/kg s.c.) also reduced chorea produced by the administration of the D(2)/D(3)
dopamine receptor agonist pramipexole (0.06 mg/kg p.o.) to levodopa-primed
MPTP-treated animals. However, again the increase in locomotor activity and
reversal of motor disability produced by pramipexole were also inhibited. These
data suggest that selective 5-HT(1a) agonists do not provide an effective means
of suppressing levodopa-induced dyskinesia, except with worsening of
parkinsonism.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.106.110429 
PMID: 16959959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2493. NMR Biomed. 2007 Apr;20(2):90-103.

Quantitative MRI-pathology correlations of brain white matter lesions developing 
in a non-human primate model of multiple sclerosis.

Blezer EL(1), Bauer J, Brok HP, Nicolay K, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Image Sciences Institute, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The
Netherlands. blezer@invivonmr.uu.nl

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced with recombinant human
myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in the common marmoset is a useful
preclinical model of multiple sclerosis in which white matter lesions can be well
visualized with MRI. In this study we characterized lesion progression with
quantitative in vivo MRI (4.7 T; T(1) relaxation time +/- Gd-DTPA; T(2)
relaxation time; magnetization transfer ratio, MTR, imaging) and correlated end
stage MRI presentation with quantitative ex vivo MRI (formaldehyde fixed brains; 
T(1) and T(2) relaxation times; MTR) and histology. The histopathological
characterization included axonal density measurements and the numeric
quantification of infiltrated macrophages expressing markers for early active
[luxol fast blue (LFB) or migration inhibition factor-related protein-14
positive] or late active/inactive [periodic acid Schiff (PAS) positive]
demyelinating lesion. MRI experiments were done every two weeks until the monkeys
were sacrificed with severe EAE-related motor deficits. Compared with the normal 
appearing white matter, lesions showed an initial increase in T(1) relaxation
times, leakage of Gd-DTPA and decrease in MTR values. The progressive enlargement
of lesions was associated with stabilized T(1) values, while T(2) initially
increased and stabilized thereafter and MTR remained decreased. Gd-DTPA leakage
was highly variable throughout the experiment. MRI characteristics of the cortex 
and (normal appearing) white matter did not change during the experiment. We
observed that in vivo MTR values correlated positively with the number of early
active (LFB+) and negatively with late active (PAS+) macrophages. Ex vivo MTR and
relaxation times correlated positively with the number of PAS-positive
macrophages. None of the investigated MRI parameters correlated with axonal
density.

c 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.1085 
PMID: 16948176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

