

2494. Stroke. 2006 Oct;37(10):2649-50. Epub 2006 Aug 31.

NXY-059: a hopeful sign in the treatment of stroke.

Hess DC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA, USA.
dhess@mail.mcg.edu

Comment in
    Stroke. 2006 Oct;37(10):2648.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000240511.22775.a7 
PMID: 16946156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2495. Behav Pharmacol. 2006 Sep;17(5-6):453-62.

Neuroprotective effects of modafinil in a marmoset Parkinson model: behavioral
and neurochemical aspects.

van Vliet SA(1), Vanwersch RA, Jongsma MJ, van der Gugten J, Olivier B,
Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Security and Safety,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands. sanneke.vanvliet@tno.nl

The vigilance-enhancing agent modafinil has neuroprotective properties: it
prevents striatal ischemic injury, nigrostriatal pathway deterioration after
partial transsection and intoxication with 1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.
The present study determines the protective effects of modafinil in the marmoset 
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine Parkinson model on behavior and on monoamine 
levels. Twelve marmoset monkeys were treated with a total dose of 6 mg/kg
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Simultaneously, six animals received a daily
oral dose of modafinil (100 mg/kg) and six animals received vehicle for 27 days. 
Behavior was observed daily and the locomotor activity, hand-eye coordination,
small fast movements, anxiety-related behavior and startle response of the
animals were tested twice a week for 3 weeks. Modafinil largely prevented the
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced change in observed behavior,
locomotor activity, hand-eye coordination and small fast movements, whereas the
vehicle could not prevent the devastating effects of
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Dopamine levels in the striatum of the
vehicle+1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated animals were reduced to 5% of
control levels, whereas the dopamine levels of the
modafinil+1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated animals were reduced to 41%
of control levels. The present data suggest that modafinil prevents decrease of
movement-related behavior and dopamine levels after
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine intoxication and can be an efficaceous
pharmacological intervention in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00008877-200609000-00011 
PMID: 16940766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

