

2495. Behav Pharmacol. 2006 Sep;17(5-6):453-62.

Neuroprotective effects of modafinil in a marmoset Parkinson model: behavioral
and neurochemical aspects.

van Vliet SA(1), Vanwersch RA, Jongsma MJ, van der Gugten J, Olivier B,
Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnosis and Therapy, TNO Defence, Security and Safety,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands. sanneke.vanvliet@tno.nl

The vigilance-enhancing agent modafinil has neuroprotective properties: it
prevents striatal ischemic injury, nigrostriatal pathway deterioration after
partial transsection and intoxication with 1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.
The present study determines the protective effects of modafinil in the marmoset 
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine Parkinson model on behavior and on monoamine 
levels. Twelve marmoset monkeys were treated with a total dose of 6 mg/kg
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Simultaneously, six animals received a daily
oral dose of modafinil (100 mg/kg) and six animals received vehicle for 27 days. 
Behavior was observed daily and the locomotor activity, hand-eye coordination,
small fast movements, anxiety-related behavior and startle response of the
animals were tested twice a week for 3 weeks. Modafinil largely prevented the
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced change in observed behavior,
locomotor activity, hand-eye coordination and small fast movements, whereas the
vehicle could not prevent the devastating effects of
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Dopamine levels in the striatum of the
vehicle+1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated animals were reduced to 5% of
control levels, whereas the dopamine levels of the
modafinil+1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated animals were reduced to 41%
of control levels. The present data suggest that modafinil prevents decrease of
movement-related behavior and dopamine levels after
1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine intoxication and can be an efficaceous
pharmacological intervention in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00008877-200609000-00011 
PMID: 16940766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2496. Arch Toxicol. 2007 Mar;81(3):219-26. Epub 2006 Aug 26.

Induction of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha)-related
enzymes by di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) treatment in mice and rats, but not 
marmosets.

Ito Y(1), Yamanoshita O, Kurata Y, Kamijima M, Aoyama T, Nakajima T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, Nagoya University
Graduate School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan.

To clarify species differences in the induction of peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha)-related enzymes by
di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) exposure, we investigated the inductions of
PPARalpha and its target genes (mitochondrial medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase
(MCAD) and peroxisomal keto-acyl-CoA thiolase (PT) in liver from mice (CD-1),
rats (Sprague-Dawley), and marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) exposed to DEHP. Male
mice and rats were treated with 0, 1.25 and 2.5 mmol/kg DEHP for 2 weeks, and
marmosets with 0, 0.25, 1.25 and 6.25 mmol/kg DEHP for 15 months by gavage.
Hepatic mono(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (MEHP) levels were significantly higher in
mice and rats than in marmosets. The constitutive expression of hepatic PPARalpha
was 5-7 times greater in rats and mice than in marmosets, but DEHP treatment did 
not induce PPARalpha-mRNA in all animals. The treatment-induced PT expression
detected either by anti-PT antibody or PT-mRNA levels in the liver only from mice
and rats, and the induction of the mRNA was greater in the latter than in the
former. Thus, DEHP used in this experiment influenced the peroxisomal enzymes in 
mice and rats, but did not affect the mitochondrial enzymes in any animals or the
peroxisomal enzymes in marmosets. These results suggest that there are species
differences in the induction of PPARalpha-related enzymes, especially in
peroxisomal enzymes by DEHP treatment, and their underlying mechanism may in part
reside in the different constitutive levels of PPARalpha and different forming
levels of MEHP.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-006-0141-x 
PMID: 16937134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

