

2497. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2006 Jul;29(4):233-41. Epub 2006 Aug 28.

Comparative study of cytotoxicity of Aeromonas spp. on four different cell lines.

Ghatak S(1), Agarwal RK, Bhilegaonkar KN.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Veterinary Public Health, Indian Veterinary Research Institute,
Izatnagar, India.

In vitro cytotoxicity is an important virulence property of motile mesophilic
Aeromonas species. Cell-free supernatant prepared from 55 Aeromonas isolates
including one A. hydrophila type strain (MTCC 646) were examined for their
cytotoxic potential on four different cell lines (Vero, BHK-21, MDBK, B 95a).
Results of the study revealed cytotoxic potential in 92.72% of the isolates.
Analysis of data exposed significant variation among isolates in respect of their
cytotoxicity. Vero cells proved to be most sensitive to aeromonal toxins and B
95a cells showed significantly (P<0.01) lower response compared to other cell
lines. Sensitivities of BHK-21 and MDBK cell lines were in between Vero and B
95a.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2006.06.005 
PMID: 16935331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2498. Cognition. 2007 Sep;104(3):654-68. Epub 2006 Aug 28.

Nonhuman primates prefer slow tempos but dislike music overall.

McDermott J(1), Hauser MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, MIT, Perceptual Science Group,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. jhm@MIT.EDU

Human adults generally find fast tempos more arousing than slow tempos, with
tempo frequently manipulated in music to alter tension and emotion. We used a
previously published method [McDermott, J., & Hauser, M. (2004). Are consonant
intervals music to their ears? Spontaneous acoustic preferences in a nonhuman
primate. Cognition, 94(2), B11-B21] to test cotton-top tamarins and common
marmosets, two new-World primates, for their spontaneous responses to stimuli
that varied systematically with respect to tempo. Across several experiments, we 
found that both tamarins and marmosets preferred slow tempos to fast. It is
possible that the observed preferences were due to arousal, and that this effect 
is homologous to the human response to tempo. In other respects, however, these
two monkey species showed striking differences compared to humans. Specifically, 
when presented with a choice between slow tempo musical stimuli, including
lullabies, and silence, tamarins and marmosets preferred silence whereas humans, 
when similarly tested, preferred music. Thus despite the possibility of
homologous mechanisms for tempo perception in human and nonhuman primates, there 
appear to be motivational ties to music that are uniquely human.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cognition.2006.07.011 
PMID: 16935277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

