

2500. Am J Primatol. 2006 Aug;68(8):777-88.

Arterial vascularization of the mandible and maxilla of neotropical primates.

Schilbach Pizzutto C(1), De Barros Vaz Guimarães MA, Bomfim Mariana AN.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Reprodução Animal, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária e
Zootecnia, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. cspizzutto@yahoo.com.br

The objective of the present investigation was to conduct a comparative
macroscopic study of the arterial vascularization of the mandible and maxilla of 
neotropical primates of the genera Cebus, Alouatta, Callithrix, and
Leontopithecus. After vinyl was injected into the arterial system of the head of 
each specimen, the pieces were macerated and corroded. The level of the
bifurcation of the common carotid artery into the internal and external carotids 
varied between the first and third cervical vertebrae. The external carotid
artery accounts for most of the vascularization of the facial structures. The
actual vessels responsible for the supply of this region are the sublingual,
facial, angular, lingual, submandibular, submental, inferior and superior labial,
maxillary, inferior alveolar, infraorbital, superior posterior alveolar, palatine
major, and sphenopalatine arteries. We conclude that although the arterial
vascular pattern was similar in all the genera studied, and resembles the human
pattern, there are notable variations in the vasculature of the mandible and
maxilla among these four neotropical genera.

Copyright (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20278 
PMID: 16929552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2501. Eur J Pharmacol. 2006 Sep 28;546(1-3):82-7. Epub 2006 Jul 25.

The novel adenosine A2a receptor antagonist ST1535 potentiates the effects of a
threshold dose of L-DOPA in MPTP treated common marmosets.

Rose S(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Stockwell K, Johnson L, Carminati P, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL UK.

Adenosine A(2a) receptor antagonists may represent a novel non-dopaminergic
approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, there is little
information available on their ability to reverse motor deficits in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates. We have studied the effects of the novel A(2a) receptor antagonist
2-butyl-9-methyl-8-(2H-1,2,3-triazol 2-yl)-9 H-purin-6-ylamine (ST1535) alone and
in combination with l-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in MPTP-treated common
marmosets. ST1535 (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, p.o.) when administered alone to
MPTP-treated common marmosets produced a dose related increase in locomotor motor
activity and tended to reverse motor disability. Treatment with a threshold dose 
of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) produced an increase in locomotor activity and again 
tended to reverse motor disability. When L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) was
administered in combination with ST1535 (20 mg/kg, p.o.), there was an
enhancement in the intensity and duration of the effect of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg,
p.o.) in reversing motor deficits as shown by both a further increase in
locomotor activity and reversal of motor disability. The combination of L-DOPA
(2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) plus ST1535 (20 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly increased "on time" 
in these animals. These data substantiate the evidence that adenosine A(2a)
receptor antagonists are able to reverse motor deficits in a highly predictive
model of clinical efficacy in Parkinson's disease. The data suggests that ST1535 
will be an effective anti-parkinsonian agent in combination with L-DOPA and allow
a reduction in l-DOPA usage in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2006.07.017 
PMID: 16925991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

