

2501. Eur J Pharmacol. 2006 Sep 28;546(1-3):82-7. Epub 2006 Jul 25.

The novel adenosine A2a receptor antagonist ST1535 potentiates the effects of a
threshold dose of L-DOPA in MPTP treated common marmosets.

Rose S(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Stockwell K, Johnson L, Carminati P, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL UK.

Adenosine A(2a) receptor antagonists may represent a novel non-dopaminergic
approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, there is little
information available on their ability to reverse motor deficits in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates. We have studied the effects of the novel A(2a) receptor antagonist
2-butyl-9-methyl-8-(2H-1,2,3-triazol 2-yl)-9 H-purin-6-ylamine (ST1535) alone and
in combination with l-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in MPTP-treated common
marmosets. ST1535 (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, p.o.) when administered alone to
MPTP-treated common marmosets produced a dose related increase in locomotor motor
activity and tended to reverse motor disability. Treatment with a threshold dose 
of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) produced an increase in locomotor activity and again 
tended to reverse motor disability. When L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) was
administered in combination with ST1535 (20 mg/kg, p.o.), there was an
enhancement in the intensity and duration of the effect of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg,
p.o.) in reversing motor deficits as shown by both a further increase in
locomotor activity and reversal of motor disability. The combination of L-DOPA
(2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) plus ST1535 (20 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly increased "on time" 
in these animals. These data substantiate the evidence that adenosine A(2a)
receptor antagonists are able to reverse motor deficits in a highly predictive
model of clinical efficacy in Parkinson's disease. The data suggests that ST1535 
will be an effective anti-parkinsonian agent in combination with L-DOPA and allow
a reduction in l-DOPA usage in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2006.07.017 
PMID: 16925991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2502. Anim Cogn. 2007 Apr;10(2):135-40. Epub 2006 Aug 22.

Perception of the stereokinetic illusion by the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Clara E(1), Regolin L, Vallortigara G, Rogers L.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW, 2351, Australia. elena.clara@unipd.it

Stereokinetic illusions have never been investigated in non-human primates, nor
in other mammalian species. These illusions consist in the perception of a 3D
solid object when certain 2D stimuli are rotated slowly in the plane
perpendicular to the line of sight. The ability to perceive the stereokinetic
illusion was investigated in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Four adult
marmosets were trained to discriminate between a solid cylinder and a solid cone 
for food reward. Once learning criterion was reached, the marmosets were tested
in sets of eight probe trials in which the two solid objects used at training
were replaced by two rotating 2D stimuli. Only one of these stimuli produced, at 
least to the human observer, the stereokinetic illusion corresponding to the
solid object previously reinforced. At test, the general behaviour and the total 
time spent by the marmosets observing each stimulus were recorded. The subjects
stayed longer near the stimulus producing the stereokinetic illusion
corresponding to the solid object reinforced at training than they did near the
illusion corresponding to the previously non-rewarded stimulus. Hence, the common
marmosets behaved as if they could perceive stereokinetic illusions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-006-0046-3 
PMID: 16924457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

