

2502. Anim Cogn. 2007 Apr;10(2):135-40. Epub 2006 Aug 22.

Perception of the stereokinetic illusion by the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Clara E(1), Regolin L, Vallortigara G, Rogers L.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, University of New England,
Armidale, NSW, 2351, Australia. elena.clara@unipd.it

Stereokinetic illusions have never been investigated in non-human primates, nor
in other mammalian species. These illusions consist in the perception of a 3D
solid object when certain 2D stimuli are rotated slowly in the plane
perpendicular to the line of sight. The ability to perceive the stereokinetic
illusion was investigated in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Four adult
marmosets were trained to discriminate between a solid cylinder and a solid cone 
for food reward. Once learning criterion was reached, the marmosets were tested
in sets of eight probe trials in which the two solid objects used at training
were replaced by two rotating 2D stimuli. Only one of these stimuli produced, at 
least to the human observer, the stereokinetic illusion corresponding to the
solid object previously reinforced. At test, the general behaviour and the total 
time spent by the marmosets observing each stimulus were recorded. The subjects
stayed longer near the stimulus producing the stereokinetic illusion
corresponding to the solid object reinforced at training than they did near the
illusion corresponding to the previously non-rewarded stimulus. Hence, the common
marmosets behaved as if they could perceive stereokinetic illusions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-006-0046-3 
PMID: 16924457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2503. Nat Neurosci. 2006 Sep;9(9):1094-5. Epub 2006 Aug 20.

Fatherhood affects dendritic spines and vasopressin V1a receptors in the primate 
prefrontal cortex.

Kozorovitskiy Y(1), Hughes M, Lee K, Gould E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Green Hall, Washington Road,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Like human fathers, male marmosets help raise their young, yet the ways in which 
fatherhood influences the brain remain largely unknown. We show that first-time
and experienced marmoset fathers have enhanced density of dendritic spines on
pyramidal neurons in prefrontal cortex as compared to non-fathers. In parallel,
the abundance of vasopressin V1a receptors and the proportion of V1a
receptor-labeled dendritic spines increase.

DOI: 10.1038/nn1753 
PMID: 16921371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

