

2503. Nat Neurosci. 2006 Sep;9(9):1094-5. Epub 2006 Aug 20.

Fatherhood affects dendritic spines and vasopressin V1a receptors in the primate 
prefrontal cortex.

Kozorovitskiy Y(1), Hughes M, Lee K, Gould E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Green Hall, Washington Road,
Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.

Like human fathers, male marmosets help raise their young, yet the ways in which 
fatherhood influences the brain remain largely unknown. We show that first-time
and experienced marmoset fathers have enhanced density of dendritic spines on
pyramidal neurons in prefrontal cortex as compared to non-fathers. In parallel,
the abundance of vasopressin V1a receptors and the proportion of V1a
receptor-labeled dendritic spines increase.

DOI: 10.1038/nn1753 
PMID: 16921371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2504. Toxicology. 2006 Sep 21;226(2-3):197-207. Epub 2006 Jul 14.

Effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-dibenzo-p-dioxin on the extracellular matrix of
the thymus in juvenile marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Nottebrock C(1), Riecke K, Kruse M, Shakibaei M, Stahlmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Charit√© Campus Benjamin
Franklin, Garystrasse 5, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

2,3,7,8-Tetrachloro-dibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is an ubiquitously distributed
xenobiotic. It has been postulated that the effects of TCDD on T-lymphocytes are 
mediated by modulation of the thymic microenvironment. There is growing evidence 
of a modified interplay between thymocytes and thymic epithelium related to
changes in extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Eighteen male marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were treated with single subcutaneous TCDD doses (1, 10, 100
ng/kg body weight) or vehicle and sacrificed 2 or 4 weeks thereafter. Thymus
samples were stained with fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated antibodies for
ECM proteins and examined immunohistochemically by semi-quantitative image
analysis. Thymus samples of animals treated with 1 and 10 ng/kg were additionally
analysed by Western blotting for ECM proteins, transforming growth factor-beta(1)
(TGF-beta(1)) and integrin chain content (CD49a, CD49e, CD49f and CD29). Monkeys 
showed no overt signs of toxicity after TCDD treatment. Immunohistochemistry
revealed an increase of ECM proteins at 100 ng/kg after 2 and 4 weeks. Western
blotting confirmed immunohistochemistry showing a dose-dependent increase of
several ECM proteins in animals treated with the lower TCDD doses of 1 and 10
ng/kg. Additionally, dose-dependent increases were observed in integrin chain and
TGF-beta(1) contents. We demonstrated changes of thymic ECM in marmosets
following low single TCDD doses. Combined with altered integrin expression and
enhanced TGF-beta(1) stimulation our findings suggest a modified interplay
between thymic epithelium and thymocytes. The extracellular matrix may play a
more central role in mediating adverse effects of TCDD in organs than yet
acknowledged.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tox.2006.07.010 
PMID: 16920245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

