

2505. BMC Genomics. 2006 Aug 15;7:209.

Identification of the ancestral killer immunoglobulin-like receptor gene in
primates.

Sambrook JG(1), Bashirova A, Andersen H, Piatak M, Vernikos GS, Coggill P, Lifson
JD, Carrington M, Beck S.

Author information: 
(1)Immunogenomics Laboratory, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus,
Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 ISA, UK.

BACKGROUND: Killer Immunoglobulin-like Receptors (KIR) are essential
immuno-surveillance molecules. They are expressed on natural killer and T cells, 
and interact with human leukocyte antigens. KIR genes are highly polymorphic and 
contribute vital variability to our immune system. Numerous KIR genes, belonging 
to five distinct lineages, have been identified in all primates examined thus far
and shown to be rapidly evolving. Since few KIR remain orthologous between
species, with only one of them, KIR2DL4, shown to be common to human, apes and
monkeys, the evolution of the KIR gene family in primates remains unclear.
RESULTS: Using comparative analyses, we have identified the ancestral KIR lineage
(provisionally named KIR3DL0) in primates. We show KIR3DL0 to be highly conserved
with the identification of orthologues in human (Homo sapiens), common chimpanzee
(Pan troglodytes), gorilla (Gorilla gorilla), rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) and 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We predict KIR3DL0 to encode a functional
molecule in all primates by demonstrating expression in human, chimpanzee and
rhesus monkey. Using the rhesus monkey as a model, we further show the expression
profile to be typical of KIR by quantitative measurement of KIR3DL0 from an
enriched population of natural killer cells.
CONCLUSION: One reason why KIR3DL0 may have escaped discovery for so long is
that, in human, it maps in between two related leukocyte immunoglobulin-like
receptor clusters outside the known KIR gene cluster on Chromosome 19. Based on
genomic, cDNA, expression and phylogenetic data, we report a novel lineage of
immunoglobulin receptors belonging to the KIR family, which is highly conserved
throughout 50 million years of primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-7-209 
PMCID: PMC1559706
PMID: 16911775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2506. Brain Pathol. 2006 Jul;16(3):209-17.

Intrauterine exposure to dexamethasone impairs proliferation but not neuronal
differentiation in the dentate gyrus of newborn common marmoset monkeys.

Tauber SC(1), Schlumbohm C, Schilg L, Fuchs E, Nau R, Gerber J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Georg-August-University, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Glucocorticoids applied prenatally alter birth weight and the maturation of the
lungs. Moreover, glucocorticoids impair neuronal proliferation and
differentiation in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. In the present study
proliferation and neuronal differentiation in the dentate gyrus were studied in
newborn common marmoset monkeys which were intrauterinely exposed to the
synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX). Pregnant marmoset monkeys received 
DEX (5 mg/kg body weight) daily either during early (days 42-48) or late (days
90-96) pregnancy. In the hippocampi of newborn monkeys immunohistochemistry was
performed with markers of proliferation (Ki-67), apoptosis (in situ tailing) as
well as early and late neuronal differentiation (calretinin and calbindin). Both 
after early and late intrauterine exposure to DEX, proliferation of dentate gyrus
cells was significantly decreased (P < 0.05). The density of apoptotic neurons
was not altered by DEX treatment. Quantification of calretinin- and
calbindin-immunoreactive neurons showed no significant differences between
DEX-exposed and control animals. In conclusion, the proliferation of putative
precursor cells but not the differentiation into mature cells was impaired in the
dentate gyrus of newborn marmosets exposed intrauterinely to DEX.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2006.00021.x 
PMCID: PMC8095824
PMID: 16911478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

