

2506. Brain Pathol. 2006 Jul;16(3):209-17.

Intrauterine exposure to dexamethasone impairs proliferation but not neuronal
differentiation in the dentate gyrus of newborn common marmoset monkeys.

Tauber SC(1), Schlumbohm C, Schilg L, Fuchs E, Nau R, Gerber J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Georg-August-University, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Glucocorticoids applied prenatally alter birth weight and the maturation of the
lungs. Moreover, glucocorticoids impair neuronal proliferation and
differentiation in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. In the present study
proliferation and neuronal differentiation in the dentate gyrus were studied in
newborn common marmoset monkeys which were intrauterinely exposed to the
synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX). Pregnant marmoset monkeys received 
DEX (5 mg/kg body weight) daily either during early (days 42-48) or late (days
90-96) pregnancy. In the hippocampi of newborn monkeys immunohistochemistry was
performed with markers of proliferation (Ki-67), apoptosis (in situ tailing) as
well as early and late neuronal differentiation (calretinin and calbindin). Both 
after early and late intrauterine exposure to DEX, proliferation of dentate gyrus
cells was significantly decreased (P < 0.05). The density of apoptotic neurons
was not altered by DEX treatment. Quantification of calretinin- and
calbindin-immunoreactive neurons showed no significant differences between
DEX-exposed and control animals. In conclusion, the proliferation of putative
precursor cells but not the differentiation into mature cells was impaired in the
dentate gyrus of newborn marmosets exposed intrauterinely to DEX.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1750-3639.2006.00021.x 
PMCID: PMC8095824
PMID: 16911478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2507. J Neurochem. 2006 Sep;98(6):1707-17. Epub 2006 Aug 11.

Complex alternative splicing of the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein gene is
unique to human and non-human primates.

Delarasse C(1), Della Gaspera B, Lu CW, Lachapelle F, Gelot A, Rodriguez D,
Dautigny A, Genain C, Pham-Dinh D.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR 546, Paris, France.

Myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a minor integral membrane protein
specific to CNS myelin, encoded by a gene located in the major histocompatibility
complex. MOG is an highly encephalitogenic autoantigen and a target for
autoaggressive immune responses in CNS inflammatory demyelinating diseases. We
performed transcriptomic analyses for a gene expressed only in mammalian CNS,
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG). Complex splicing patterns were
exclusively found in primates and not in mice, unlike patterns found for other
myelin protein genes. In addition to those shared with rodents, these multiple
MOG isoforms likely support functions unique to the primate order, in particular 
maintenance of myelin structure, intracellular signaling, and modulation of CNS
autoimmunity via exposure of specific MOG determinants. Developmentally, in human
brain the splice variants of MOG appear at a late stage compared to the major
isoform, coincidental with myelination and myelin maturation, unlike other myelin
proteins. These findings are discussed within the framework of a biological basis
for phenotype diversity in recent mammalian evolution and for the notoriously
variable clinical expression of diseases such as multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2006.04053.x 
PMID: 16903876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

