

2507. J Neurochem. 2006 Sep;98(6):1707-17. Epub 2006 Aug 11.

Complex alternative splicing of the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein gene is
unique to human and non-human primates.

Delarasse C(1), Della Gaspera B, Lu CW, Lachapelle F, Gelot A, Rodriguez D,
Dautigny A, Genain C, Pham-Dinh D.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR 546, Paris, France.

Myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a minor integral membrane protein
specific to CNS myelin, encoded by a gene located in the major histocompatibility
complex. MOG is an highly encephalitogenic autoantigen and a target for
autoaggressive immune responses in CNS inflammatory demyelinating diseases. We
performed transcriptomic analyses for a gene expressed only in mammalian CNS,
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG). Complex splicing patterns were
exclusively found in primates and not in mice, unlike patterns found for other
myelin protein genes. In addition to those shared with rodents, these multiple
MOG isoforms likely support functions unique to the primate order, in particular 
maintenance of myelin structure, intracellular signaling, and modulation of CNS
autoimmunity via exposure of specific MOG determinants. Developmentally, in human
brain the splice variants of MOG appear at a late stage compared to the major
isoform, coincidental with myelination and myelin maturation, unlike other myelin
proteins. These findings are discussed within the framework of a biological basis
for phenotype diversity in recent mammalian evolution and for the notoriously
variable clinical expression of diseases such as multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2006.04053.x 
PMID: 16903876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2508. Mult Scler. 2006 Aug;12(4):369-74.

Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis in the common marmoset reflects the immunopathology of pattern 
II multiple sclerosis lesions.

Merkler D(1), Schmelting B, Czéh B, Fuchs E, Stadelmann C, Brück W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Georg-August University Göttingen, Göttingen,
Germany.

Pathomorphological studies described pathological heterogeneity in patients with 
multiple sclerosis (MS). Different effector mechanisms might therefore be
responsible for lesion formation in MS. The present report shows that myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) in common marmoset monkeys reflects one specific lesional
subtype of MS, namely MS pattern II lesions with antibody/complement-mediated
damage. MOG-induced EAE in marmoset monkeys will, therefore, provide an ideal
model for therapeutic approaches directed against B-cell/antibody/complement in
MS.

DOI: 10.1191/1352458506ms1290oa 
PMID: 16900750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

