

2514. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2006 Jun;2(3):345-9.

Use of nontraditional animals for evaluation of pharmaceutical products.

Jacobs A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, US Food and Drug Administration,
Silver Spring, Maryland, USA. abigail.jacobs@fda.hhs.gov

Although the International Conference on Harmonization Guideline ICH M3 indicates
the use of nonrodents for some studies of pharmaceutical products, the specific
nonrodent species is not specified. Dogs are used most frequently; however, there
may be reasons why dogs are not the best model for a particular drug. Minipigs
are being used increasingly for evaluation of toxicity, especially for dermally
applied drugs, and for various efficacy models. Hamsters may be used for the
evaluation of intraoral drugs and for carcinogenicity studies. Less commonly,
pharmaceutical manufacturers may choose on their own to use marmosets, when a
nonhuman primate is considered critical to evaluation, or to use ferrets for
specific purposes. When nontraditional species are used, there may be less
historical information available and unique issues of their care, and differences
in physiology and anatomy and susceptibility to infection need to be understood. 
Nonmammalian test species, such as zebrafish and Caenorhabditis elegans may be
used by drug sponsors in screening assays, but are not yet ready for use in
pivotal toxicology studies because of the difficulty in extrapolating to
mammalian species. Use of nontraditional animal species may be proposed by a drug
sponsor to a reviewing division with supporting data and reasons for using a
particular species.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.2.3.345 
PMID: 16863438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2515. J Immunol Methods. 2006 Jul 31;314(1-2):153-63. Epub 2006 Jul 24.

MHC Class II DRB genotyping is highly predictive of in-vitro alloreactivity in
the common marmoset.

Prasad S(1), Humphreys I, Kireta S, Gilchrist RB, Bardy P, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Immunology Laboratory and Department of Medicine, University
of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Campus, 28 Woodville Road, Woodville,
SA 5011, Australia.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is emerging as a promising alternative
pre-clinical model for transplantation and immunological research. It is
therefore important to establish a rapid and reliable method of confirming
alloreactivity between donor-recipient pairs. In this study of a large marmoset
colony (n=49), we firstly characterised MHC Class II genes (Caja-DRB*W1201,
Caja-DRB1*03, Caja-DRB*W16) using, for the first time in this species,
sequence-based allelic typing techniques. Exon 2 was amplified using M13-tailed
PCR primers specific for known marmoset alleles, and sequenced using universal
M13 sequencing primers and dye terminator cycle sequencing. Twenty-six genotypes 
involving monomorphic Caja-DRB*W1201, 8 Caja-DRB*W16 and 5 Caja-DRB1*03 alleles
were observed. Two new DRB*W16 alleles were identified. Subsequently we
investigated whether matching at MHC-DRB loci alone could accurately predict
in-vitro alloreactivity as assessed by mixed lymphocyte reactions. Peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) isolated from fully and partially DRB-matched and 
fully mismatched animal pairs were mixed and co-cultured for T-cell
proliferation. PBMC co-cultured from fully or partially mismatched pairs
exhibited significant T cell proliferation above single cell controls (p<0.01).
Mixed PBMC from fully DRB-matched pairs exhibited no proliferation over controls 
(p=0.3). Thus using Caja-DRB genotyping, suitably alloreactive donor-recipient
pairs can be rapidly and accurately identified for use in further studies of
cellular and solid organ transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2006.06.009 
PMID: 16860822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

