

2515. J Immunol Methods. 2006 Jul 31;314(1-2):153-63. Epub 2006 Jul 24.

MHC Class II DRB genotyping is highly predictive of in-vitro alloreactivity in
the common marmoset.

Prasad S(1), Humphreys I, Kireta S, Gilchrist RB, Bardy P, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Immunology Laboratory and Department of Medicine, University
of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Campus, 28 Woodville Road, Woodville,
SA 5011, Australia.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is emerging as a promising alternative
pre-clinical model for transplantation and immunological research. It is
therefore important to establish a rapid and reliable method of confirming
alloreactivity between donor-recipient pairs. In this study of a large marmoset
colony (n=49), we firstly characterised MHC Class II genes (Caja-DRB*W1201,
Caja-DRB1*03, Caja-DRB*W16) using, for the first time in this species,
sequence-based allelic typing techniques. Exon 2 was amplified using M13-tailed
PCR primers specific for known marmoset alleles, and sequenced using universal
M13 sequencing primers and dye terminator cycle sequencing. Twenty-six genotypes 
involving monomorphic Caja-DRB*W1201, 8 Caja-DRB*W16 and 5 Caja-DRB1*03 alleles
were observed. Two new DRB*W16 alleles were identified. Subsequently we
investigated whether matching at MHC-DRB loci alone could accurately predict
in-vitro alloreactivity as assessed by mixed lymphocyte reactions. Peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) isolated from fully and partially DRB-matched and 
fully mismatched animal pairs were mixed and co-cultured for T-cell
proliferation. PBMC co-cultured from fully or partially mismatched pairs
exhibited significant T cell proliferation above single cell controls (p<0.01).
Mixed PBMC from fully DRB-matched pairs exhibited no proliferation over controls 
(p=0.3). Thus using Caja-DRB genotyping, suitably alloreactive donor-recipient
pairs can be rapidly and accurately identified for use in further studies of
cellular and solid organ transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2006.06.009 
PMID: 16860822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2516. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2006 Sep;69(17):1651-72.

Effect of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) on genital organs from juvenile
common marmosets: I. Morphological and biochemical investigation in 65-week
toxicity study.

Tomonari Y(1), Kurata Y, David RM, Gans G, Kawasuso T, Katoh M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Kashima-gun, Ibaraki, Japan.

Recent studies demonstrated that preadolescent male rats are more sensitive to
testicular damage from exposure to DEHP than adults. Male and female marmosets
were treated daily with 0, 100, 500, or 2500 mg/kg DEHP by oral gavage for 65 wk 
from weaning (3 mo of age) to sexual maturity (18 mo). No treatment-related
changes were observed in male organ weights, and no microscopic changes were
found in male gonads or secondary sex organs. Sperm head counts, zinc levels,
glutathione levels, and testicular enzyme activities were comparable between
groups. Electron microscopic examination revealed no treatment-related
abnormalities in Leydig, Sertoli, or spermatogenic cells. Histochemical
examination of the testis after 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD)
staining did not reveal any alterations in steroid synthesis in the Leydig cells.
Thus, although marmoset monkeys were treated with 2500 mg/kg DEHP, throughout the
pre- and periadolescent period, no histological changes were noted in the testes.
For females, increased ovarian and uterine weights and elevated blood estradiol
level were observed in higher dosage groups, 500 and 2500 mg/kg. These increased 
weights were associated with the presence of large corpus luteum, a common
finding in older female marmosets. Although an effect on the female ovary cannot 
be completely ruled out, no abnormal histological changes were observed in the
ovaries or uteri in comparison to controls. No increases in hepatic peroxisomal
enzyme activities were noted in treated groups; isolated hepatic enzyme
activities (P-450 contents, testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase, and lauric acid
omega-1omega-hydroxylase activities) were increased in males and/or females of
either the mid- or high-dose groups, but no consistent dose-related trend was
observed.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390600630054 
PMID: 16854791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

