

2516. J Toxicol Environ Health A. 2006 Sep;69(17):1651-72.

Effect of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) on genital organs from juvenile
common marmosets: I. Morphological and biochemical investigation in 65-week
toxicity study.

Tomonari Y(1), Kurata Y, David RM, Gans G, Kawasuso T, Katoh M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Kashima-gun, Ibaraki, Japan.

Recent studies demonstrated that preadolescent male rats are more sensitive to
testicular damage from exposure to DEHP than adults. Male and female marmosets
were treated daily with 0, 100, 500, or 2500 mg/kg DEHP by oral gavage for 65 wk 
from weaning (3 mo of age) to sexual maturity (18 mo). No treatment-related
changes were observed in male organ weights, and no microscopic changes were
found in male gonads or secondary sex organs. Sperm head counts, zinc levels,
glutathione levels, and testicular enzyme activities were comparable between
groups. Electron microscopic examination revealed no treatment-related
abnormalities in Leydig, Sertoli, or spermatogenic cells. Histochemical
examination of the testis after 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD)
staining did not reveal any alterations in steroid synthesis in the Leydig cells.
Thus, although marmoset monkeys were treated with 2500 mg/kg DEHP, throughout the
pre- and periadolescent period, no histological changes were noted in the testes.
For females, increased ovarian and uterine weights and elevated blood estradiol
level were observed in higher dosage groups, 500 and 2500 mg/kg. These increased 
weights were associated with the presence of large corpus luteum, a common
finding in older female marmosets. Although an effect on the female ovary cannot 
be completely ruled out, no abnormal histological changes were observed in the
ovaries or uteri in comparison to controls. No increases in hepatic peroxisomal
enzyme activities were noted in treated groups; isolated hepatic enzyme
activities (P-450 contents, testosterone 6beta-hydroxylase, and lauric acid
omega-1omega-hydroxylase activities) were increased in males and/or females of
either the mid- or high-dose groups, but no consistent dose-related trend was
observed.

DOI: 10.1080/15287390600630054 
PMID: 16854791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2517. J Immunol. 2006 Aug 1;177(3):1427-33.

EBV-specific CD4+ T cell clones exhibit vigorous allogeneic responses.

Landais E(1), Morice A, Long HM, Haigh TA, Charreau B, Bonneville M, Taylor GS,
Houssaint E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Unité 601, Institut
de Biologie, Nantes, France.

Alloreactive T cells play a key role in mediating graft-vs-host disease and
allograft rejection, and recent data suggest that most T cell alloreactivity
resides within the CD4 T cell subset. Particularly, T cell responses to
herpesvirus can shape the alloreactive repertoire and influence transplantation
outcomes. In this study, we describe six distinct EBV-specific CD4(+) T cell
clones that cross-reacted with EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), 
dendritic cells, and endothelial cells expressing MHC class II alleles commonly
found in the population. Allorecognition showed exquisite MHC specificity. These 
CD4(+) T cell clones efficiently killed dendritic cells or LCLs expressing the
cross-reactive allogeneic MHC class II molecules, whereas they did not kill
autologous LCLs. Endothelial cells expressing the proper allogeneic MHC molecules
were poorly killed, but they induced high-level TNF-alpha production by the
EBV-specific CD4(+) T cell clones. As already proposed, the strong alloreactivity
toward LCLs suggest that these cells could be used for selective depletion of
alloreactive T cells.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.177.3.1427 
PMID: 16849448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

