

2518. Am J Primatol. 2006 Aug;68(8):812-24.

Serotonin function is associated with behavioral response to a novel conspecific 
in marmosets.

Kinnally EL(1), Jensen HA, Ewing JH, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska-Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA. 
Elkinnally@ucdavis.edu

The function of the central nervous system neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT)
contributes to individual differences in impulsive behavior in humans and
nonhuman primates. We investigated the relationship between 5-HT function and
behavioral responses to a novel social scenario in marmosets. In the first study,
marmosets (n=10) were treated orally with fluoxetine HCl (FLX) or vehicle for two
trial periods and exposed to a novel conspecific for a 20-min trial following
each treatment. Levels of behavioral inhibition in response to a novel
conspecific were quantified. The animals exhibited less inhibition toward the
novel conspecific following the 14-day FLX treatment than they did following the 
vehicle treatment. In the second study we first characterized the parameters of
the marmoset peripheral 5-HT system and further assessed the relationship between
natural variation in peripheral 5-HT and 5-HIAA levels with behavioral inhibition
in response to a novel conspecific (n=14). Individual peripheral 5-HT and 5-HIAA 
levels were higher in animals that exhibited more inhibition in response toward
the stranger. We conclude that serotonergic influences play a role in behavioral 
response to a novel conspecific in marmosets.

Copyright (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20281 
PMID: 16847970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2519. Toxicol Pathol. 2006;34(4):357-63.

Spontaneous lesions of the cardiovascular system in purpose-bred laboratory
nonhuman primates.

Chamanza R(1), Parry NM, Rogerson P, Nicol JR, Bradley AE.

Author information: 
(1)Charles River Laboratories, Preclinical Services Edinburgh, Tranent, EH33 2NE,
Scotland, United Kingdom.

This retrospective study was performed to determine the range, occurrence and
incidence of spontaneously arising histopathological findings of the
cardiovascular system in purpose-bred laboratory nonhuman primates. Data were
collected from 84 controlled toxicological studies with equal numbers of male and
female animals and full tissue lists. Attempts were also made to standardize
pathological terms used by various original pathologists. Tissue sections from
2464 animals, which included 2050 cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), 284
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and 130 rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta)
were examined. The most common cardiac finding was focal myocardial inflammation,
subcategorized as either "inflammatory cell infiltration" (339) or "focal
myocarditis" (131). Other cardiac findings included mineralization (29),
endocarditis (16), pericarditis (10), squamous cysts (6) and ectopic thyroid
tissue (5). Perivasculitis/vasculitis in the kidney, lung, meninges, sciatic
nerve, and other tissues (206) was the most common vascular lesion. Focal
myocarditis was more common in male (60%) than female (40%) animals. Cardiac
mineralization and extramedullary hematopoiesis were more common in marmosets
than other species while ectopic thyroid tissue was present in marmosets and
cynomolgus monkeys. To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate the 
range and incidence of spontaneous cardiovascular lesions in laboratory nonhuman 
primates.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230600809737 
PMID: 16844663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

