

2519. Toxicol Pathol. 2006;34(4):357-63.

Spontaneous lesions of the cardiovascular system in purpose-bred laboratory
nonhuman primates.

Chamanza R(1), Parry NM, Rogerson P, Nicol JR, Bradley AE.

Author information: 
(1)Charles River Laboratories, Preclinical Services Edinburgh, Tranent, EH33 2NE,
Scotland, United Kingdom.

This retrospective study was performed to determine the range, occurrence and
incidence of spontaneously arising histopathological findings of the
cardiovascular system in purpose-bred laboratory nonhuman primates. Data were
collected from 84 controlled toxicological studies with equal numbers of male and
female animals and full tissue lists. Attempts were also made to standardize
pathological terms used by various original pathologists. Tissue sections from
2464 animals, which included 2050 cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), 284
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and 130 rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta)
were examined. The most common cardiac finding was focal myocardial inflammation,
subcategorized as either "inflammatory cell infiltration" (339) or "focal
myocarditis" (131). Other cardiac findings included mineralization (29),
endocarditis (16), pericarditis (10), squamous cysts (6) and ectopic thyroid
tissue (5). Perivasculitis/vasculitis in the kidney, lung, meninges, sciatic
nerve, and other tissues (206) was the most common vascular lesion. Focal
myocarditis was more common in male (60%) than female (40%) animals. Cardiac
mineralization and extramedullary hematopoiesis were more common in marmosets
than other species while ectopic thyroid tissue was present in marmosets and
cynomolgus monkeys. To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate the 
range and incidence of spontaneous cardiovascular lesions in laboratory nonhuman 
primates.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230600809737 
PMID: 16844663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2520. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2006 Jun;84(2):282-93. Epub 2006 Jul 7.

Multiple vaccine and pyridostigmine interactions: effects on EEG and sleep in the
common marmoset.

Williams KE(1), Mann TM, Chamberlain S, Smith A, Wilson S, Griffiths GD, Bowditch
AP, Scott EA, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Dstl Biomedical Sciences Department, Porton Down, Salisbury, SP4 0JQ, UK.
KEWILLIAMS@dstl.gov.uk

Following active service during the 1990/1991 Gulf conflict, a number of UK and
US veterans presented with a diverse range of symptoms, collectively known as
Gulf Veterans' Illnesses (GVI). The administration of vaccines and/or the
pretreatment against possible nerve agent poisoning, pyridostigmine bromide (PB),
given to Armed Forces personnel during the Gulf conflict has been implicated as a
possible factor in the aetiology of these illnesses. The possibility that
long-term health effects may result from the administration of these vaccines
(anthrax, pertussis, plague, yellow fever, polio, typhoid, tetanus, hepatitis B, 
meningococcal meningitis and cholera) and/or PB, have been investigated using a
non-human primate model, the common marmoset. This paper reports the results from
two aspects of the study, brain electrical activity (EEG, collected during
performance of a touchscreen mediated discrimination task) and sleep. There were 
no marked long-term changes in EEG or sleep patterns that could be attributed to 
vaccines and/or PB administration. The changes that were detected were
predominantly time related and independent of treatment. Where statistical
differences were detected between treatments, the magnitudes of the difference
were relatively minor and therefore not regarded as having long term biological
significance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2006.05.011 
PMID: 16828151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

