

2522. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jun;23(12):3337-45.

Ipsilateral corticocortical projections to the primary and middle temporal visual
areas of the primate cerebral cortex: area-specific variations in the morphology 
of connectionally identified pyramidal cells.

Elston GN(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, School of Biomedical Sciences, The 
University of Queensland, Australia.

We quantified the morphology of over 350 pyramidal neurons with identified
ipsilateral corticocortical projections to the primary (V1) and middle temporal
(MT) visual areas of the marmoset monkey, following intracellular injection of
Lucifer Yellow into retrogradely labelled cells. Paralleling the results of
studies in which randomly sampled pyramidal cells were injected, we found that
the size of the basal dendritic tree of connectionally identified cells differed 
between cortical areas, as did the branching complexity and spine density. We
found no systematic relationship between dendritic tree structure and axon target
or length. Instead, the size of the basal dendritic tree increased roughly in
relation to increasing distance from the occipital pole, irrespective of the
length of the connection or the cortical layer in which the neurons were located.
For example, cells in the second visual area had some of the smallest and least
complex dendritic trees irrespective of whether they projected to V1 or MT, while
those in the dorsolateral area (DL) were among the largest and most complex. We
also observed that systematic differences in spine number were more marked among 
V1-projecting cells than MT-projecting cells. These data demonstrate that the
previously documented systematic differences in pyramidal cell morphology between
areas cannot simply be attributed to variable proportions of neurons projecting
to different targets, in the various areas. Moreover, they suggest that
mechanisms intrinsic to the area in which neurons are located are strong
determinants of basal dendritic field structure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04847.x 
PMID: 16820023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2523. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jun;23(11):3119-23.

Selective prefrontal serotonin depletion impairs acquisition of a detour-reaching
task.

Walker SC(1), Mikheenko YP, Argyle LD, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK. 
scw34@cam.ac.uk

We have recently shown that serotonin in the primate orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)
contributes to the flexible control of behaviour. 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced
5-HT depletions of OFC impair performance on a serial reversal discrimination
task [Clarke et al. (2004)Science, 304, 878-880]. The deficit is characterized by
perseverative responding to the previously rewarded stimulus, a deficit similar
to that seen following lesions of the intrinsic neurones of the OFC [Dias et al. 
(1996)Nature, 380, 69-72]. The effect is neurochemically selective as
dopaminergic lesions of the OFC, induced by 6-hydroxydopamine, have no effect
[Clarke et al. (2006)Cerebral Cortex]. In order to test for the generality of the
effect of serotonin on orbitofrontal processing and, in particular, its effects
on flexible behaviour, the present study investigated the effects of serotonin
depletions of OFC on performance of another task dependent upon an intact OFC,
the detour-reaching task [Wallis et al. (2001)European Journal of Neuroscience,
13, 1797-1808]. Successful performance of this task requires inhibition of the
animal's prepotent response tendency to reach directly along its line of sight to
the reward. Compared with sham-operated controls, we found that lesioned monkeys 
made significantly more barrier reaches directly along their line of sight to the
visible reward during task acquisition. This finding provides further support for
the role of prefrontal serotonin in inhibitory control processes specifically in 
tasks sensitive to OFC dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04826.x 
PMCID: PMC1867317
PMID: 16820002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

