

2523. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jun;23(11):3119-23.

Selective prefrontal serotonin depletion impairs acquisition of a detour-reaching
task.

Walker SC(1), Mikheenko YP, Argyle LD, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK. 
scw34@cam.ac.uk

We have recently shown that serotonin in the primate orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)
contributes to the flexible control of behaviour. 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced
5-HT depletions of OFC impair performance on a serial reversal discrimination
task [Clarke et al. (2004)Science, 304, 878-880]. The deficit is characterized by
perseverative responding to the previously rewarded stimulus, a deficit similar
to that seen following lesions of the intrinsic neurones of the OFC [Dias et al. 
(1996)Nature, 380, 69-72]. The effect is neurochemically selective as
dopaminergic lesions of the OFC, induced by 6-hydroxydopamine, have no effect
[Clarke et al. (2006)Cerebral Cortex]. In order to test for the generality of the
effect of serotonin on orbitofrontal processing and, in particular, its effects
on flexible behaviour, the present study investigated the effects of serotonin
depletions of OFC on performance of another task dependent upon an intact OFC,
the detour-reaching task [Wallis et al. (2001)European Journal of Neuroscience,
13, 1797-1808]. Successful performance of this task requires inhibition of the
animal's prepotent response tendency to reach directly along its line of sight to
the reward. Compared with sham-operated controls, we found that lesioned monkeys 
made significantly more barrier reaches directly along their line of sight to the
visible reward during task acquisition. This finding provides further support for
the role of prefrontal serotonin in inhibitory control processes specifically in 
tasks sensitive to OFC dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04826.x 
PMCID: PMC1867317
PMID: 16820002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2524. Cell Tissue Res. 2006 Dec;326(3):707-14. Epub 2006 Jul 4.

Cerebellar localization of the NO-receptive soluble guanylyl cyclase
subunits-alpha(2)/beta (1) in non-human primates.

Bidmon HJ(1), Mohlberg H, Habermann G, Buse E, Zilles K, Behrends S.

Author information: 
(1)C.& O. Vogt Institute of Brain Research, Bldg. 22.03, University St. 1, 40225 
DÃ¼sseldorf, Germany. hjb@hirn.uni-duesseldorf.de

Nitric-oxide-sensitive guanylyl cyclase (NO-sGC) plays a pivotal role in many
second messenger cascades. Neurotransmission- and neuropathology-related changes 
in NO-sGC have been suggested. However, the cellular localization of NO-sGC in
primate brains, including humans, remains unknown. Biochemical evidence has
linked the alpha(2)-subunit of NO-sGC directly to neurotransmission in rodents.
Here, we have used a recently characterized subunit-specific antibody for the
localization of the alpha(2)-subunit on sections from the cerebelli of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus; New World monkey) and macaque monkeys (Macaca
mulatta, M. fascicularis; Old World monkeys). In contrast to the more ubiquitous 
cytoplasmic presence of subunit-beta(1), the alpha(2)-subunit is mainly confined 
to the somato-dendritic membrane including the spines of the Purkinje cells. Only
limited colocalization with presynaptically localized synaptophysin has been seen
under our staining conditions, indicating a higher abundance of subunit-alpha(2) 
at the postsynaptic site. This localization indicates that subunit-alpha(2) links
NO-sGC to neurotransmission, whereas subunit-beta(1) may act as a cytoplasmic
regulator/activator by contributing to active heterodimer formation via
translocation from the cytoplasm to the cell membrane. The last-mentioned action 
may be a prerequisite for generating nitric-oxide-dependent, subcellular, and
postsynaptically localized cGMP signals along neuronal processes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-006-0246-9 
PMID: 16819625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

