

2524. Cell Tissue Res. 2006 Dec;326(3):707-14. Epub 2006 Jul 4.

Cerebellar localization of the NO-receptive soluble guanylyl cyclase
subunits-alpha(2)/beta (1) in non-human primates.

Bidmon HJ(1), Mohlberg H, Habermann G, Buse E, Zilles K, Behrends S.

Author information: 
(1)C.& O. Vogt Institute of Brain Research, Bldg. 22.03, University St. 1, 40225 
DÃ¼sseldorf, Germany. hjb@hirn.uni-duesseldorf.de

Nitric-oxide-sensitive guanylyl cyclase (NO-sGC) plays a pivotal role in many
second messenger cascades. Neurotransmission- and neuropathology-related changes 
in NO-sGC have been suggested. However, the cellular localization of NO-sGC in
primate brains, including humans, remains unknown. Biochemical evidence has
linked the alpha(2)-subunit of NO-sGC directly to neurotransmission in rodents.
Here, we have used a recently characterized subunit-specific antibody for the
localization of the alpha(2)-subunit on sections from the cerebelli of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus; New World monkey) and macaque monkeys (Macaca
mulatta, M. fascicularis; Old World monkeys). In contrast to the more ubiquitous 
cytoplasmic presence of subunit-beta(1), the alpha(2)-subunit is mainly confined 
to the somato-dendritic membrane including the spines of the Purkinje cells. Only
limited colocalization with presynaptically localized synaptophysin has been seen
under our staining conditions, indicating a higher abundance of subunit-alpha(2) 
at the postsynaptic site. This localization indicates that subunit-alpha(2) links
NO-sGC to neurotransmission, whereas subunit-beta(1) may act as a cytoplasmic
regulator/activator by contributing to active heterodimer formation via
translocation from the cytoplasm to the cell membrane. The last-mentioned action 
may be a prerequisite for generating nitric-oxide-dependent, subcellular, and
postsynaptically localized cGMP signals along neuronal processes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-006-0246-9 
PMID: 16819625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2525. Biol Lett. 2006 Jun 22;2(2):181-3.

Pregnancy weight gain: marmoset and tamarin dads show it too.

Ziegler TE(1), Prudom SL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Kurian AV, Snowdon CT.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison, WI 53715, USA.
ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Paternal behaviour is critical for the survival of offspring in many monogamous
species. Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus
oedipus) fathers spend as much or more time caring for infants than mothers.
Expectant males of both species showed significant increases in weight across the
pregnancy whereas control males did not (five consecutive months for marmoset
males and six months for cotton-top tamarin males). Expectant fathers might be
preparing for the energetic cost of fatherhood by gaining weight during their
mate's pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2005.0426 
PMCID: PMC1483903
PMID: 16810338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

