

2526. Neurol Res. 2006 Jul;28(5):513-7.

Endogenous stem and precursor cells for demyelinating diseases: an alternative
for transplantation?

D'Intino G(1), Perretta G, Taglioni A, Calistri M, Falzone C, Baroni M, Giardino 
L, Calz√† L.

Author information: 
(1)ASC-Lab, DIMORFIPA, University of Bologna, Italy.

Remyelination can be very effective in human. However, this process ultimately
fails in multiple sclerosis (MS). In this paper, we discuss the possibility of
stimulating endogenous oligodendrocyte precursors to participate in remyelination
in experimental models (rat and primate Callithrix jacchus) of MS through thyroid
hormone (TH) administration. TH is in fact known to be a key signal in brain
development, oligodendrocyte development and myelin protein gene expression
regulation.

DOI: 10.1179/016164106X116773 
PMID: 16808881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2527. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2006 Jun;84(2):207-18. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Multiple vaccine and pyridostigmine interactions: effects on cognition, muscle
function and health outcomes in marmosets.

Stevens D(1), Scott EA, Bowditch AP, Griffiths GD, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Dstl Biomedical Sciences, Porton Down, Salisbury, SP4 0JQ, UK.
DSTEVENS@dstl.gov.uk

Following active service during the 1990/1991 Gulf Conflict, a number of UK and
US veterans presented with a diverse range of symptoms, collectively known as
Gulf Veterans Illnesses (GVI). The administration of vaccines and/or the
pretreatment against possible nerve agent poisoning, pyridostigmine bromide (PB),
given to armed forces personnel during the Gulf Conflict has been implicated as a
possible factor in the aetiology of these illnesses. The possibility that
long-term health effects may result from the administration of these vaccines
(anthrax, pertussis, plague, yellow fever, polio, typhoid, tetanus, hepatitis B, 
meningococcal meningitis and cholera) and/or PB, have been investigated using a
non-human primate model, the common marmoset. This paper reports the results from
three aspects of the study, cognitive behaviour (performance of a touchscreen
mediated discrimination task), muscle function (performance of a simple strength 
test) and general health. There were no marked long-term changes in cognition,
muscle function or health that could be attributed to vaccines and/or PB
administration. Statistical differences related to treatments were only observed 
in two aspects of cognition and one of clinical chemistry. These changes were
transient in nature and their magnitude were minor and, in consequence, was not
regarded as having long-term biological significance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2006.04.020 
PMID: 16806443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

