

2530. Am J Primatol. 2006 Jul;68(7):692-700.

Cross-genus adoption of a marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) by wild capuchin monkeys 
(Cebus libidinosus): case report.

Izar P(1), Verderane MP, Visalberghi E, Ottoni EB, Gomes De Oliveira M, Shirley
J, Fragaszy D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil.

We report a case of interspecies adoption of an infant marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) by wild capuchin monkeys (Cebus libidinosus). The marmoset was an infant
when it was first observed in the capuchin group on 3 March 2004. Since it first 
appeared it has been observed informally and frequently. In January 2005
systematic observations were made of the marmoset and a capuchin of similar age. 
Throughout its period of adoption the marmoset appeared to be socially integrated
into the group, benefiting from nurturant behaviors exhibited by two successive
adoptive "mothers" and pronounced tolerance from all members of the group. This
case highlights the flexibility of both Callithrix and Cebus in accommodating
variable social behaviors and other characteristics (including size) of social
partners.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20259 
PMID: 16786521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2531. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2006 May-Jun;29(3):112-25.

Switching from levodopa to the long-acting dopamine D2/D3 agonist piribedil
reduces the expression of dyskinesia while maintaining effective motor activity
in MPTP-treated primates.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Johnston L, Kuoppamaki M, Rose S, Al-Barghouthy G, Del
Signore S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, School of Biomedical and Health
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Neuropharmacol. 2007 Jan-Feb;30(1):60-2.

BACKGROUND: The control of motor complications following dopaminergic medication 
in late-stage Parkinson disease remains problematic.
OBJECTIVE: We now investigate the potential of oral administration of the
long-acting dopamine D2/D3 agonist piribedil to decrease the expression of
dyskinesia induced by prior exposure to levodopa in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates.
METHODS: MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with equieffective doses of
levodopa (10.0-12.5 mg/kg PO, twice daily) or piribedil (3.0-4.0 mg/kg PO, once
daily) for 30 days and then switched to the alternative treatment for a further
35 days.
RESULTS: Levodopa administration markedly improved motor function, but dyskinesia
rapidly appeared and intensified as treatment progressed. Administration of
piribedil produced a similar reversal of MPTP-induced motor deficits but with
comparatively mild dyskinesia. On switching from levodopa to piribedil, the
intensity of dyskinesia decreased without altering the improvement in motor
deficits. However, on switching from piribedil to levodopa, the rapid increase in
dyskinesia despite the improvement in motor function being maintained suggests
that piribedil also primes for but does not markedly express dyskinesia.
CONCLUSION: The study confirms the low dyskinesia expression resulting from
piribedil treatment compared with an equieffective dose of levodopa. Importantly,
the results show that switching from levodopa to piribedil rapidly results in a
sustained decrease in dyskinesia intensity.

DOI: 10.1097/01.WNF.0000220818.71231.DF 
PMID: 16772809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

