

2536. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2007 Feb;27(2):293-303. Epub 2006 May 24.

From homogeneous to fractal normal and tumorous microvascular networks in the
brain.

Risser L(1), Plourabou√© F, Steyer A, Cloetens P, Le Duc G, Fonta C.

Author information: 
(1)IMFT UMR5502 CNRS-INPT/UPS, Toulouse, France.

We studied normal and tumorous three-dimensional (3D) microvascular networks in
primate and rat brain. Tissues were prepared following a new preparation
technique intended for high-resolution synchrotron tomography of microvascular
networks. The resulting 3D images with a spatial resolution of less than the
minimum capillary diameter permit a complete description of the entire vascular
network for volumes as large as tens of cubic millimeters. The structural
properties of the vascular networks were investigated by several multiscale
methods such as fractal and power-spectrum analysis. These investigations gave a 
new coherent picture of normal and pathological complex vascular structures. They
showed that normal cortical vascular networks have scale-invariant fractal
properties on a small scale from 1.4 mum up to 40 to 65 mum. Above this
threshold, vascular networks can be considered as homogeneous. Tumor vascular
networks show similar characteristics, but the validity range of the fractal
regime extend to much larger spatial dimensions. These 3D results shed new light 
on previous two dimensional analyses giving for the first time a direct
measurement of vascular modules associated with vessel-tissue surface exchange.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jcbfm.9600332 
PMID: 16736048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2537. Stem Cells. 2006 Sep;24(9):2014-22. Epub 2006 May 25.

Tal1/Scl gene transduction using a lentiviral vector stimulates highly efficient 
hematopoietic cell differentiation from common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
embryonic stem cells.

Kurita R(1), Sasaki E, Yokoo T, Hiroyama T, Takasugi K, Imoto H, Izawa K, Dong Y,
Hashiguchi T, Soda Y, Maeda T, Suehiro Y, Tanioka Y, Nakazaki Y, Tani K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics,
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, 3-1-1, Maidashi, Fukuoka
812-8582, Japan.

The development of embryonic stem cell (ESC) therapies requires the establishment
of efficient methods to differentiate ESCs into specific cell lineages. Here, we 
report the in vitro differentiation of common marmoset (CM) (Callithrix jacchus) 
ESCs into hematopoietic cells after exogenous gene transfer using vesicular
stomatitis virus-glycoprotein-pseudotyped lentiviral vectors. We transduced
hematopoietic genes, including tal1/scl, gata1, gata2, hoxB4, and lhx2, into CM
ESCs. By immunochemical and morphological analyses, we demonstrated that
overexpression of tal1/scl, but not the remaining genes, dramatically increased
hematopoiesis of CM ESCs, resulting in multiple blood-cell lineages. Furthermore,
flow cytometric analysis demonstrated that CD34, a hematopoietic stem/progenitor 
cell marker, was highly expressed in tal1/scl-overexpressing embryoid body cells.
Similar results were obtained from three independent CM ESC lines. These results 
suggest that transduction of exogenous tal1/scl cDNA into ESCs is a promising
method to induce the efficient differentiation of CM ESCs into hematopoietic
stem/progenitor cells.

DOI: 10.1634/stemcells.2005-0499 
PMID: 16728561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

