

2539. J Comp Psychol. 2006 May;120(2):120-30.

Geometrical gaze following in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Burkart J(1), Heschl A.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute, University of Zurich, Switzerland.
judith.burkart@aim.unizh.ch

A series of experiments investigating the degree of gaze understanding in common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) is reported. Results show that marmosets follow
the gaze of a human experimenter readily and also use the gaze to locate food in 
a modified version of the object choice task if influences of chance
probabilities and prepotent response tendencies are controlled for. In addition, 
this new version of the task allows the assessment of the accuracy of gaze
following. Marmosets precisely extrapolate gaze direction, past distracting
objects and from considerable distances, thereby meeting the criteria of
so-called geometrical gaze following. The presence of this ability in common
marmosets suggests that higher forms of gaze following might be more widely
distributed among nonhuman primates than previously thought.

Copyright 2006 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.120.2.120 
PMID: 16719590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2540. Arch Toxicol. 2006 Nov;80(11):719-31. Epub 2006 May 23.

A physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PB/PK) model for multiple exposure
routes of soman in multiple species.

Sweeney RE(1), Langenberg JP, Maxwell DM.

Author information: 
(1)RESECO Research Engineering Consultants, Nottingham, PA 19362, USA.
Richard.Sweeney@us.army.mil

A physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PB/PK) model has been developed in
advanced computer simulation language (ACSL) to describe blood and tissue
concentration-time profiles of the C(+/-)P(-) stereoisomers of soman after
inhalation, subcutaneous and intravenous exposures at low (0.8-1.0 x LD(50)),
medium (2-3 x LD(50)) and high (6 x LD(50)) levels of soman challenge in three
species (rat, guinea pig, marmoset). Allometric formulae were used to compute the
compartment volumes, blood flow rates, tidal volume and respiratory rate based
upon total animal weight. Blood/tissue partition coefficients for soman, initial 
carboxylesterase and acetylcholinesterase levels and the rate constants for
interactions between soman and these enzymes were species-dependent and were
obtained from in vitro measurements reported in the literature. The model
incorporated arterial and venous blood, lung, kidney, liver, richly perfused,
poorly perfused and fat tissue compartments as well as subcutaneous and nasal
exposure site compartments. First-order absorption from linearly filled soman
deposits into metabolizing exposure site compartments was employed to model
subcutaneous and inhalation exposures. The model was validated by comparing the
predicted and observed values for C(+/-)P(-)-soman in arterial blood at various
times following exposure and by regression analysis. Sensitivity analysis was
used to determine the effects of perturbations in the model parameters on the
time-course of arterial C(-)P(-)-soman concentrations for different exposure
routes. In our evaluation of 28 datasets, predicted values were generally within 
95% confidence limits of the observed values, and regression coefficients
comparing predicted and observed data were greater than 0.85 for 95% of the
intravenous and subcutaneous datasets and 25% of the inhalation datasets. We
conclude that the model predicts the soman toxicokinetics for doses >or=1 x
LD(50) for intravenous and subcutaneous exposures and inhalation exposures of 8
min or less sufficiently well to allow its use in the modeling of bioscavenger
protection.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-006-0114-0 
PMID: 16718492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

