

2542. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Jul 10;497(2):270-86.

Development of the neural retina and its vasculature in the marmoset Callithrix
jacchus.

Hendrickson A(1), Troilo D, Possin D, Springer A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle, 98195, 
USA. anitah@u.washington.edu

The morphological sequence of retinal development in the New World marmoset
monkey Callithrix jacchus is similar to previous reports in Macaca and humans.
The incipient fovea is present at fetal day (Fd) 100 as the only part of the
retina that contains five distinct layers, including a single layer of cone
photoreceptors. A foveal pit begins to form at Fd 135 in the center of the foveal
avascular zone which is surrounded by a ring of blood vessels (BV) and
astrocytes. At birth (Fd 144) the fovea has a single layer of cones over the pit 
center where the inner retinal layers are thinned but still separated. After
birth the fovea rapidly matures so that foveal cone and pit morphology are
similar to adult by 4 months. Five distinct layers and the BV plexus in the nerve
fiber layer are present to the retinal edge in neonatal marmosets. Near the optic
disc BV are sprouting into outer retinal layers at birth and vascularization of
the outer retina is completed by 2 to 3 months. Retinal length increases sharply 
up to Fd 135, but undergoes a quiescent period around birth during which pit
formation begins. Length then increases again up to 4mo, followed by a slow
increase into adulthood. The postnatal increase is accompanied by a marked
thinning of the peripheral retina. The pars plana appears after birth and its
length increases at least until 2 years of age. The major difference between
marmoset and Macaca is the relative immaturity of the marmoset fovea at birth,
and its rapid development after birth. This makes the marmoset a good candidate
for neonatal experimental manipulation of retinal and eye development.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20996 
PMID: 16705674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2543. Toxicol Pathol. 2006;34(3):223-31.

Species and sex differences in susceptibility to olfactory lesions among the
mouse, rat and monkey following an intravenous injection of vincristine sulphate.

Kai K(1), Sahto H, Yoshida M, Suzuki T, Shikanai Y, Kajimura T, Furuhama K.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Safety Research Laboratory, Daiichi Pharmaceutical Company Ltd., Tokyo,
Japan. kaikitrx@daiichipharm.co.jp

Species and sex differences in susceptibility to vincristine sulphate
(VCR)-induced olfactory epithelial lesions were investigated among the BALB/c
mice, Crj: CD(SD) IGS rats and common marmoset monkeys following a single
intravenous administration on day 1. As dosage levels, the 0.17-fold LD10,
0.6-fold LD10 and LD10 were used for mice and rats, and a maximum tolerated dose 
(MTD) was chosen only for monkeys. The order of strength of VCR action on
peripheral neuropathic signs, body weight gain, and hematological parameters was 
mice > rats > monkeys, without clear sex differences. Histopathologically, on day
2, single cell death in the olfactory epithelium and vomeronasal organ was
observed only in male mice at LD10, and in female mice at 0.6-fold LD10 or more. 
On day 5, the olfactory epithelium in these mice showed regenerative
proliferation suggesting a sign of recovery. On day 10, axonopathy and
demyelination in the sciatic and trigeminal nerves were noted in mice of both
sexes at 0.6-fold LD10 or more. In rats and monkeys of either sex, however, no
morphological changes were observed at any dose level. In conclusion, mice,
particularly females, were shown to be more susceptible to VCR-induced apoptosis 
in the olfactory epithelium than rats and monkeys.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230600695557 
PMID: 16698718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

