

2547. J Neurosci. 2006 May 3;26(18):4785-95.

Plasticity of temporal pattern codes for vocalization stimuli in primary auditory
cortex.

Schnupp JW(1), Hall TM, Kokelaar RF, Ahmed B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Physiology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PT, United
Kingdom. jan.schnupp@physiol.ox.ac.uk

It has been suggested that "call-selective" neurons may play an important role in
the encoding of vocalizations in primary auditory cortex (A1). For example,
marmoset A1 neurons often respond more vigorously to natural than to
time-reversed twitter calls, although the spectral energy distribution in the
natural and time-reversed signals is the same. Neurons recorded in cat A1, in
contrast, showed no such selectivity for natural marmoset calls. To investigate
whether call selectivity in A1 can arise purely as a result of auditory
experience, we recorded responses to marmoset calls in A1 of naive ferrets, as
well as in ferrets that had been trained to recognize these natural marmoset
calls. We found that training did not induce call selectivity for the trained
vocalizations in A1. However, although ferret A1 neurons were not call selective,
they efficiently represented the vocalizations through temporal pattern codes,
and trained animals recognized marmoset twitters with a high degree of accuracy. 
These temporal patterns needed to be analyzed at timescales of 10-50 ms to ensure
efficient decoding. Training led to a substantial increase in the amount of
information transmitted by these temporal discharge patterns, but the fundamental
nature of the temporal pattern code remained unaltered. These results emphasize
the importance of temporal discharge patterns and cast doubt on the functional
significance of call-selective neurons in the processing of animal communication 
sounds at the level of A1.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4330-05.2006 
PMCID: PMC6674162
PMID: 16672651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2548. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2006 May;39(5):647-58. Epub 2006 Apr 20.

Contested dominance modifies the anovulatory consequences of social subordination
in female marmosets.

Alencar AI(1), Sousa MB, Abbott DH, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brasil.

Dominance status among female marmosets is reflected in agonistic behavior and
ovarian function. Socially dominant females receive submissive behavior from
subordinates, while exhibiting normal ovulatory function. Subordinate females,
however, receive agonistic behavior from dominants, while exhibiting reduced or
absent ovulatory function. Such disparity in female fertility is not absolute,
and groups with two breeding females have been described. The data reported here 
were obtained from 8 female-female pairs of captive female marmosets, each housed
with a single unrelated male. Pairs were classified into two groups:
"uncontested" dominance (UD) and "contested" dominance (CD), with 4 pairs each.
Dominant females in UD pairs showed significantly higher frequencies (4.1) of
agonism (piloerection, attack and chasing) than their subordinates (0.36), and
agonistic behaviors were overall more frequently displayed by CD than by UD
pairs. Subordinates in CD pairs exhibited more agonistic behavior (2.9) than
subordinates in UD pairs (0.36), which displayed significantly more submissive
(6.97) behaviors than their dominants (0.35). The data suggest that there is more
than one kind of dominance relationship between female common marmosets.
Assessment of progesterone levels showed that while subordinates in UD pairs
appeared to be anovulatory, the degree of ovulatory disruption in subordinates of
CD pairs was more varied and less complete. We suggest that such variation in
female-female social dominance relationships and the associated variation in the 
degree and reliability of fertility suppression may explain variations of the
reproductive condition of free-living groups of common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2006000500012 
PMID: 16648903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

