

2548. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2006 May;39(5):647-58. Epub 2006 Apr 20.

Contested dominance modifies the anovulatory consequences of social subordination
in female marmosets.

Alencar AI(1), Sousa MB, Abbott DH, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brasil.

Dominance status among female marmosets is reflected in agonistic behavior and
ovarian function. Socially dominant females receive submissive behavior from
subordinates, while exhibiting normal ovulatory function. Subordinate females,
however, receive agonistic behavior from dominants, while exhibiting reduced or
absent ovulatory function. Such disparity in female fertility is not absolute,
and groups with two breeding females have been described. The data reported here 
were obtained from 8 female-female pairs of captive female marmosets, each housed
with a single unrelated male. Pairs were classified into two groups:
"uncontested" dominance (UD) and "contested" dominance (CD), with 4 pairs each.
Dominant females in UD pairs showed significantly higher frequencies (4.1) of
agonism (piloerection, attack and chasing) than their subordinates (0.36), and
agonistic behaviors were overall more frequently displayed by CD than by UD
pairs. Subordinates in CD pairs exhibited more agonistic behavior (2.9) than
subordinates in UD pairs (0.36), which displayed significantly more submissive
(6.97) behaviors than their dominants (0.35). The data suggest that there is more
than one kind of dominance relationship between female common marmosets.
Assessment of progesterone levels showed that while subordinates in UD pairs
appeared to be anovulatory, the degree of ovulatory disruption in subordinates of
CD pairs was more varied and less complete. We suggest that such variation in
female-female social dominance relationships and the associated variation in the 
degree and reliability of fertility suppression may explain variations of the
reproductive condition of free-living groups of common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2006000500012 
PMID: 16648903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2549. Comp Immunol Microbiol Infect Dis. 2006 Mar-May;29(2-3):89-99. Epub 2006 May 2.

Development and biological properties of a new live attenuated mumps vaccine.

Saika S(1), Kidokoro M, Kubonoya H, Ito K, Ohkawa T, Aoki A, Nagata N, Suzuki K.

Author information: 
(1)Chiba Prefectural Institute of Public Health, 666-2 Nitona-Cho, Chuo-Ku,
Chiba-City, Chiba 260-8715, Japan. s.sik@ma.pref.chiba.jp

To develop a new live attenuated mumps vaccine, a wild mumps Y7 strain isolated
from a patient who developed mild parotitis was treated with nitrosoguanidine and
ultraviolet, followed by selection of a temperature-sensitive clone. The selected
clone, Y125, showed stable temperature-sensitivity in Vero cells. Intraspinal
inoculation of marmosets with the Y125 produced only minimal histopathological
changes, while intracerebral inoculation of neonatal rats revealed that the Y125 
did not cause hydrocephalus. Both these effects of the Y125 were similar to those
of the non-neurovirulent Jeryl Lynn strain. Furthermore, subcutaneous inoculation
of the Y125 induced high levels of neutralizing antibodies in all Cercopithecus
monkeys examined. Although the safety and immunogenicity should be confirmed in
further field trials in humans, the present results indicate that the Y125 could 
be a promising vaccine candidate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cimid.2006.01.004 
PMID: 16647119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

