

2552. J Med Virol. 2006 Jun;78(6):770-9.

Clonality analysis by sequence variation of the latent membrane protein 1 gene in
patients with chronic active Epstein-Barr virus infection.

Shibata Y(1), Hoshino Y, Hara S, Yagasaki H, Kojima S, Nishiyama Y, Morishima T, 
Kimura H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine,
Nagoya, Japan.

Chronic active Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is a severe systemic disease
associated with high rates of mortality and morbidity. Recent studies suggest
that the clonal expansion of EBV-infected T or natural killer cells plays a
crucial role in the pathogenesis of chronic active EBV infection. However, it is 
not clear whether chronic active EBV infection is truly a monoclonal disorder
that originates from one cell. The clonality of EBV was investigated by sequence 
variation of the latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) gene, which has a high degree
of sequence heterogeneity. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were obtained from 
nine Japanese patients with chronic active EBV infection and four with infectious
mononucleosis. A carboxyl-terminal region of the LMP1 gene was analyzed by
polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The amplified PCR products were subcloned, and
18 clones from each sample were sequenced. Patients with chronic active EBV
infection each had two to five different LMP1 nucleotide sequences, whereas
patients with infectious mononucleosis each had one to seven different sequences.
Patients with chronic active EBV infection and infectious mononucleosis both had 
one dominant sequence. Longitudinal analysis was performed in four patients with 
chronic active EBV infection, in whom the dominant strains were found to have
remained unchanged for several years. The results suggest that EBV in patients
with chronic active EBV infection was polyclonal, although clonal expansion may
occur. Collectively, these findings are critical to clarify further the
pathogenesis of chronic active EBV infection and aid in the development of
effective treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.20622 
PMID: 16628581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2553. Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol. 2006 Jun;144(2):203-10. Epub 2006 Apr 
19.

Sleep quantitation in common marmoset, cotton top tamarin and squirrel monkey by 
non-invasive actigraphy.

Sri Kantha S(1), Suzuki J.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Evolution Modeling Research, Kyoto University-Primate
Research Institute, Inuyama City 484-8506, Japan.

Sleep quantitation data on the Neotropical primate species, apart from the
squirrel monkey, are still sparse. As such, we have quantitated sleep in the
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), cotton top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) and
squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) reared in one primate facility
simultaneously, by non-invasive actigraphy. The range in total sleep time/24h
measured for male adult common marmosets, cotton top tamarins and squirrel
monkeys were 713-793 min (n=4), 707-889 min (n=4) and 459-475 min (n=2)
respectively. The range in sleep episode length /12h dark phase for marmosets,
tamarins and squirrel monkeys were 21-52 min (n=3), 10-28 min (n=4) and 9-15 min 
(n=2) respectively. Since vigilance is a critical evolutionary adaptive feature
of predator avoidance among Callitrichid monkeys and squirrel monkeys, the
shorter ranges in sleep episode length recorded, even under captivity, in this
study could be interpreted as probable indicators of such vigilance behavior
during the rest phase. We hypothesize that the vigilance behavior when it exists 
during a primate's active phase should also prevail when it is at rest (sleep).
This hypothesis deserves additional testing in female Callitrichid monkeys.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpa.2006.02.043 
PMID: 16626986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

