

2555. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Apr;23(7):1766-74.

MPTP treatment of common marmosets impairs proteasomal enzyme activity and
decreases expression of structural and regulatory elements of the 26S proteasome.

Zeng BY(1), Iravani MM, Lin ST, Irifune M, Kuoppamäki M, Al-Barghouthy G, Smith
L, Jackson MJ, Rose S, Medhurst AD, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, GKT School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasome system occurs in the substantia nigra
(SN) in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, it is unknown whether this is a
primary cause or a secondary consequence of other components of the pathogenic
process. We have investigated in nonhuman primates whether initiating cell death 
through mitochondrial complex I inhibition using
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) altered
proteasomal activity or the proteasomal components in the SN. Chymotrypsin-like, 
trypsin-like and peptidylglutamyl-peptide hydrolase (PGPH) activating of 20S
proteasome were decreased in SN homogenates of MPTP-treated marmosets compared to
naïve animals. Western blotting revealed a marked decrease in the expression of
20S-alpha subunits, but no change in 20S-beta subunits in the SN of MPTP-treated 
marmoset compared to naïve animals. There was a marked decrease in the expression
of the proteasome activator 700 (PA700) and proteasome activator 28 (PA28)
regulatory complexes. The 20S-alpha4 subunit immunoreactivity was decreased in
the nucleus of colocalized tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells of
MPTP-treated animals compared to naïve animals but no difference in the intensity
of 20S-beta1i subunit staining. Immunoreactivity for PA700-Rpt5 and PA28-alpha
subunits within surviving TH-positive cells of MPTP-treated marmoset was reduced 
compared to naïve controls. Overall, the changes in proteasomal function and
structure occurring follow MPTP-induced destruction of the SN in common marmosets
were very similar to those found in PD. This suggests that altered proteasomal
function in PD could be a consequence of other pathogenic processes occurring in 
SN as opposed to initiating cell death as previously suggested.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04718.x 
PMID: 16623833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2556. Peptides. 2006 Sep;27(9):2214-23. Epub 2006 Apr 18.

Interaction of the tachykinin NK3 receptor agonist senktide with behavioral
effects of cocaine in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

de Souza Silva MA(1), Mello EL Jr, Müller CP, Jocham G, Maior RS, Huston JP,
Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology and Center for Biological and Medical
Research, University of Düsseldorf, Universitätsstr. 1, 40225 Düsseldorf,
Germany.

Brain neuropeptide transmitters of the tachykinin family are involved in the
organization of many behaviors. However, little is known about their contribution
to the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse. Recently, antagonism of the
tachykinin NK3-receptor (NK3-R), one of the three tachykinin receptors in the
brain, was shown to attenuate the acute and chronic behavioral effects of cocaine
in rats and the acute effects in non-human primates. In order to expand these
findings we investigated the effects of the NK3-R agonist, succinyl-[Asp6,
Me-Phe8]SP(6-11) (senktide), on the acute behavioral effects of cocaine in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) using a figure-eight maze procedure.
Animals were pretreated with senktide (0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 mg/kg, s.c.), and
received either a treatment with cocaine (10 mg/kg) or saline (i.p.). Cocaine
increased locomotor activity and the duration of aerial scanning behavior, but
reduced exploratory activity, bodycare activity, the frequency of aerial
scanning, and terrestrial glance behavior. Senktide blocked the effects of
cocaine on locomotor activity, but enhanced the cocaine effects on exploratory
activity, aerial scanning frequency, and terrestrial glance behavior. Senktide
alone did not significantly influence monkey behavior in this study. These data
expand previous findings suggesting a complex role of the NK3-R in the acute
behavioral effects of cocaine in non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.peptides.2006.03.005 
PMID: 16621146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

