

2559. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2006 Apr 12;4:18.

Regulation of the ovarian follicular vasculature.

Fraser HM(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, The Queen's Medical Research Institute, 
47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh, EH16 4TJ, UK. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Angiogenesis is associated with follicular development and is regulated
independently within each follicle potentially making the functioning of its
vasculature critically important in determining its fate. This review examines
the various ways in which follicular angiogenesis may be monitored, describes the
follicular localisation and changes in pro- and anti-angiogenic factors that may 
regulate the process and how antagonists may be used to elucidate their
physiological role in vivo. Thus, inhibition of vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF), VEGF receptor-2, vascular endothelial cell cadherin or
interference with the angiopoietin system can inhibit follicular development or
prevent ovulation.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-4-18 
PMCID: PMC1459163
PMID: 16611363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2560. Mol Hum Reprod. 2006 May;12(5):291-9. Epub 2006 Apr 11.

Induction of endometriosis in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Lieder K, Br√ºns A, Husen B, Thole H, Simon C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, Leipzig, Germany.
einspaner@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de

Endometriosis is an estrogen-dependent gynaecological disease associated with
pain and infertility, which occurs in humans and menstruating primates. In this
study, the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), which is a non-menstruating
primate with high circulating estrogen levels, was used to test firstly the
hypothesis that endometriosis is based on uterine shedding into the peritoneal
cavity, secondly to study the pathogenesis of endometriosis due to its estrogenic
situation. Female marmoset monkeys (n = 29) were exposed to two different
experimental procedures (non-invasive versus invasive) for intrapelvic placement 
of endometrial cells by uterine flushing over an experimental period of 2-3
years. First endometriotic foci were detected by colour Doppler ultrasound at the
bladder, the uterus and the ovaries at the earliest after 4 months of either
treatments. However, invasive induction was more effective in terms of the
time-course of induction and the number of resulting endometriotic foci. The
analysis of the endometriotic foci by histology, immunohistochemistry and
molecular techniques allowed a division into two distinct groups: an initial
developing stage occurred, which under further treatment led to the second stage 
of established endometriosis. Both procedures showed a treatment-dependent
increase of vascular supply to the endometriotic foci over the experimental
period. The invasive method induced the final established stage of endometriosis 
more rapidly, with the expression of steroid receptors, aromatase, 17betaHSD1 and
CD10. Altogether, 72% of the treated marmoset monkeys developed endometriosis
under our endometrial reflux protocols. Our data support the theory that
endometriosis can be induced artificially in a non-menstruating primate (C.
jacchus) by endometrial shedding into the peritoneal cavity. Because the marmoset
is a primate with very high peripheral estrogen levels, this offers an
interesting model for studying the pathogenesis of this estrogen-dependent
disease, as well as for therapeutic impacts on enzymes involved in steroid
metabolism.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gal031 
PMID: 16608906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

