

2561. Eur J Pharmacol. 2006 May 1;536(3):269-78. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

The tachykinin NK3 receptor antagonist SR142801 blocks the behavioral effects of 
cocaine in marmoset monkeys.

De Souza Silva MA(1), Mello EL Jr, M체ller CP, Jocham G, Maior RS, Huston JP,
Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology and Center for Biological and Medical
Research, University of D체sseldorf, Universit채tsstr. 1, 40225 D체sseldorf,
Germany.

Brain neuropeptide transmitters of the tachykinin family are involved in the
organization of many behaviors. However, little is known about their contribution
to the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse. Recently, the tachykinin NK3
receptor, one of the three tachykinin receptors in the brain, was shown to
attenuate the acute and chronic behavioral effects of cocaine in rats. In order
to test if these findings can be generalized to primates we investigated the role
of the tachykinin NK3 receptor in the acute behavioral effects of cocaine in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) using a figure-eight maze procedure.
Animals were pretreated with the tachykinin NK3 receptor antagonist,
(R)-(N)-[1-[3-[1-benzoyl-3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)piperidin-3-yl]propyl]-4-phenylpip
eridin-4-yl]-N-methylacetamide (SR142801; 0, 0.02, 0.2, 2.0 mg/kg, i.p.), and
received either a treatment with cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p) or saline (i.p.).
Cocaine increased locomotor activity and aerial glance behavior, but reduced
exploratory and bodycare activities, scent marking and terrestrial scanning
behavior. A sensitivity analysis revealed that two responder types can be
differentiated in relation to the occurrence of a hyperlocomotor response to
cocaine. SR142801 blocked the actions of cocaine on several behaviors
dose-dependently for each responder type, respectively. There was no effect of
SR142801 alone on any behavior measured. These data suggest that the tachykinin
NK3 receptor contributes to the individual behavioral response to cocaine in
marmoset monkeys. Having no behavioral effects on its own, but blocking the
cocaine effects, might suggest the tachykinin NK3 receptor antagonist, SR142801, 
as a potential treatment of cocaine addiction in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2006.03.010 
PMID: 16603151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2562. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1060:6-16.

Probing the evolutionary origins of music perception.

McDermott J(1), Hauser MD.

Author information: 
(1)Perceptual Science Group, Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, NE20-444, 3 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
02139. jhm@mit.edu

Comment in
    Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1060:3-5.

Empirical data have recently begun to inform debates on the evolutionary origins 
of music. In this paper we discuss some of our recent findings and related
theoretical issues. We claim that theories of the origins of music will be
usefully constrained if we can determine which aspects of music perception are
innate, and, of those, which are uniquely human and specific to music.
Comparative research in nonhuman animals, particularly nonhuman primates, is thus
critical to the debate. In this paper we focus on the preferences that
characterize most humans' experience of music, testing whether similar
preferences exist in nonhuman primates. Our research suggests that many
rudimentary acoustic preferences, such as those for consonant over dissonant
intervals, may be unique to humans. If these preferences prove to be innate in
humans, they may be candidates for music-specific adaptations. To establish
whether such preferences are innate in humans, one important avenue for future
research will be the collection of data from different cultures. This may be
facilitated by studies conducted over the internet.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1360.002 
PMID: 16597745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

