

2562. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1060:6-16.

Probing the evolutionary origins of music perception.

McDermott J(1), Hauser MD.

Author information: 
(1)Perceptual Science Group, Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, NE20-444, 3 Cambridge Center, Cambridge,
02139. jhm@mit.edu

Comment in
    Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2005 Dec;1060:3-5.

Empirical data have recently begun to inform debates on the evolutionary origins 
of music. In this paper we discuss some of our recent findings and related
theoretical issues. We claim that theories of the origins of music will be
usefully constrained if we can determine which aspects of music perception are
innate, and, of those, which are uniquely human and specific to music.
Comparative research in nonhuman animals, particularly nonhuman primates, is thus
critical to the debate. In this paper we focus on the preferences that
characterize most humans' experience of music, testing whether similar
preferences exist in nonhuman primates. Our research suggests that many
rudimentary acoustic preferences, such as those for consonant over dissonant
intervals, may be unique to humans. If these preferences prove to be innate in
humans, they may be candidates for music-specific adaptations. To establish
whether such preferences are innate in humans, one important avenue for future
research will be the collection of data from different cultures. This may be
facilitated by studies conducted over the internet.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1360.002 
PMID: 16597745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2563. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Apr 11;103(15):5864-8. Epub 2006 Mar 31.

Reactivation by exon shuffling of a conserved HLA-DR3-like pseudogene segment in 
a New World primate species.

Doxiadis GG(1), van der Wiel MK, Brok HP, de Groot NG, Otting N, 't Hart BA, van 
Rood JJ, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Genetics and Refinement, Biomedical Primate Research
Centre, P.O. Box 3306, 2280 GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey species with a
limited MHC class II repertoire, is highly susceptible to certain bacterial
infections. Genomic analysis of exon 2 sequences documented the existence of only
one DRB region configuration harboring three loci. Two of these loci display
moderate levels of allelic polymorphism, whereas the -DRB*W12 gene appears to be 
monomorphic. This study shows that only the Caja-DRB*W16 and -DRB*W12 loci
produce functional transcripts. The Caja-DRB1*03 locus is occupied by a
pseudogene, given that most of the transcripts, if detected at all, show
imperfections and are present at low levels. Moreover, two hybrid transcripts
were identified that feature the evolutionarily conserved peptide-binding motif
characteristic for the Caja-DRB1*03 gene. Thus, the severely reduced MHC class II
repertoire in common marmosets has been expanded by reactivation of a pseudogene 
segment as a result of exon shuffling.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0600643103 
PMCID: PMC1421335
PMID: 16581907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

