

2563. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Apr 11;103(15):5864-8. Epub 2006 Mar 31.

Reactivation by exon shuffling of a conserved HLA-DR3-like pseudogene segment in 
a New World primate species.

Doxiadis GG(1), van der Wiel MK, Brok HP, de Groot NG, Otting N, 't Hart BA, van 
Rood JJ, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Genetics and Refinement, Biomedical Primate Research
Centre, P.O. Box 3306, 2280 GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey species with a
limited MHC class II repertoire, is highly susceptible to certain bacterial
infections. Genomic analysis of exon 2 sequences documented the existence of only
one DRB region configuration harboring three loci. Two of these loci display
moderate levels of allelic polymorphism, whereas the -DRB*W12 gene appears to be 
monomorphic. This study shows that only the Caja-DRB*W16 and -DRB*W12 loci
produce functional transcripts. The Caja-DRB1*03 locus is occupied by a
pseudogene, given that most of the transcripts, if detected at all, show
imperfections and are present at low levels. Moreover, two hybrid transcripts
were identified that feature the evolutionarily conserved peptide-binding motif
characteristic for the Caja-DRB1*03 gene. Thus, the severely reduced MHC class II
repertoire in common marmosets has been expanded by reactivation of a pseudogene 
segment as a result of exon shuffling.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0600643103 
PMCID: PMC1421335
PMID: 16581907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2564. Neuropharmacology. 2006 Jun;50(8):975-83. Epub 2006 Mar 31.

Characterisation of the selective 5-HT1B receptor antagonist SB-616234-A
(1-[6-(cis-3,5-dimethylpiperazin-1-yl)-2,3-dihydro-5-methoxyindol-1-yl]-1-[2'-met
hyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methanone hydrochloride): in 
vivo neurochemical and behavioural evidence of anxiolytic/antidepressant
activity.

Dawson LA(1), Hughes ZA, Starr KR, Storey JD, Bettelini L, Bacchi F, Arban R,
Poffe A, Melotto S, Hagan JJ, Price GW.

Author information: 
(1)Psychiatry Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, GlaxoSmithKline, New
Frontiers Science Park (North), 3rd Avenue, Harlow, Essex CM19 5AW, UK.
lee.a.dawson@gsk.com

The 5-HT1B receptor has attracted significant interest as a potential target for 
the development of therapeutics for the treatment of affective disorders such as 
anxiety and depression. Here we present the in vivo characterisation of a novel, 
selective and orally bioavailable 5-HT1B receptor antagonist, SB-616234-A
(1-[6-(cis-3,5-dimethylpiperazin-1-yl)-2,3-dihydro-5-methoxyindol-1-yl]-1-[2'-met
hyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methanone hydrochloride).
SB-616234-A reversed the 5-HT1/7 receptor agonist, SKF-99101H-induced hypothermia
in guinea pigs in a dose related manner with an ED50 of 2.4 mg/kg p.o. Using in
vivo microdialysis in freely moving guinea pigs, SB-616234-A (3-30 mg/kg p.o.)
caused a dose-related increase in extracellular 5-HT in the dentate gyrus.
Evaluation of antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects of this 5-HT1B receptor
antagonist was performed in a variety of models and species. SB-616234-A produced
a decrease in immobility time in the mouse forced swim test; an effect suggestive
of antidepressant activity. Furthermore, SB-616234-A produced dose-related
anxiolytic effects in both rat and guinea pig maternal separation-induced
vocalisation models with an ED50 of 1.0 and 3.3 mg/kg i.p., respectively (vs
fluoxetine treatment ED50 = 2.2 mg/kg i.p. in both species). Also a significant
reduction in posturing behaviours was observed in the human threat test in
marmosets; an effect indicative of anxiolytic activity. In summary, SB-616234-A
is a novel, potent and orally bioavailable 5-HT1B receptor antagonist which
exhibits a neurochemical and behavioural profile that is consistent with both
anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like activity in a variety of species. Taken
together these data suggest that SB-616234-A may have therapeutic efficacy in the
treatment of affective disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2006.01.010 
PMID: 16581092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

