

2564. Neuropharmacology. 2006 Jun;50(8):975-83. Epub 2006 Mar 31.

Characterisation of the selective 5-HT1B receptor antagonist SB-616234-A
(1-[6-(cis-3,5-dimethylpiperazin-1-yl)-2,3-dihydro-5-methoxyindol-1-yl]-1-[2'-met
hyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methanone hydrochloride): in 
vivo neurochemical and behavioural evidence of anxiolytic/antidepressant
activity.

Dawson LA(1), Hughes ZA, Starr KR, Storey JD, Bettelini L, Bacchi F, Arban R,
Poffe A, Melotto S, Hagan JJ, Price GW.

Author information: 
(1)Psychiatry Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, GlaxoSmithKline, New
Frontiers Science Park (North), 3rd Avenue, Harlow, Essex CM19 5AW, UK.
lee.a.dawson@gsk.com

The 5-HT1B receptor has attracted significant interest as a potential target for 
the development of therapeutics for the treatment of affective disorders such as 
anxiety and depression. Here we present the in vivo characterisation of a novel, 
selective and orally bioavailable 5-HT1B receptor antagonist, SB-616234-A
(1-[6-(cis-3,5-dimethylpiperazin-1-yl)-2,3-dihydro-5-methoxyindol-1-yl]-1-[2'-met
hyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methanone hydrochloride).
SB-616234-A reversed the 5-HT1/7 receptor agonist, SKF-99101H-induced hypothermia
in guinea pigs in a dose related manner with an ED50 of 2.4 mg/kg p.o. Using in
vivo microdialysis in freely moving guinea pigs, SB-616234-A (3-30 mg/kg p.o.)
caused a dose-related increase in extracellular 5-HT in the dentate gyrus.
Evaluation of antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects of this 5-HT1B receptor
antagonist was performed in a variety of models and species. SB-616234-A produced
a decrease in immobility time in the mouse forced swim test; an effect suggestive
of antidepressant activity. Furthermore, SB-616234-A produced dose-related
anxiolytic effects in both rat and guinea pig maternal separation-induced
vocalisation models with an ED50 of 1.0 and 3.3 mg/kg i.p., respectively (vs
fluoxetine treatment ED50 = 2.2 mg/kg i.p. in both species). Also a significant
reduction in posturing behaviours was observed in the human threat test in
marmosets; an effect indicative of anxiolytic activity. In summary, SB-616234-A
is a novel, potent and orally bioavailable 5-HT1B receptor antagonist which
exhibits a neurochemical and behavioural profile that is consistent with both
anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like activity in a variety of species. Taken
together these data suggest that SB-616234-A may have therapeutic efficacy in the
treatment of affective disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2006.01.010 
PMID: 16581092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2565. Eur J Pharmacol. 2006 Apr 24;536(1-2):54-61. Epub 2006 Feb 28.

SB-649915, a novel, potent 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B autoreceptor antagonist and 5-HT
re-uptake inhibitor in native tissue.

Scott C(1), Soffin EM, Hill M, Atkinson PJ, Langmead CJ, Wren PB, Faedo S, Gordon
LJ, Price GW, Bromidge S, Johnson CN, Hagan JJ, Watson J.

Author information: 
(1)Psychiatry and Neurology and GI Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery,
GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park, Third Avenue, Harlow, Essex, CM19
5AW and Via Fleming 4, Verona, Italy.

An increase in brain 5-HT levels is thought to be the key mechanism of action
which results in an antidepressant response. It has been proven that selective
serotonin re-uptake inhibitors are effective antidepressants but the delay to
therapeutic onset of these agents is thought to be due to the time required for
5-HT1A, and possibly 5-HT1B, autoreceptor desensitisation. Therefore an agent
incorporating 5-HT re-uptake inhibition coupled with 5-HT1A and/or 5-HT1B
autoreceptor antagonism may provide a fast acting clinical agent. The current
studies describe the in vitro profile of SB-649915
(6-[(1-{2-[(2-methylquinolin-5-yl)oxy]ethyl}piperidin-4-yl)methyl]-2H-1,4-benzoxa
zin-3(4H)-one), a novel compound which has high affinity for human recombinant
5-HT1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors (pKi values of 8.6, 8.0, 8.8, respectively)
and the human recombinant 5-HT transporter (pKi value of 9.3). SB-649915 also
displays high affinity for rat, guinea pig, mouse and marmoset native tissue
5-HT1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors and rat native tissue 5-HT transporters (pKi 
values>or=7.5). In functional [35S]GTPgammaS binding studies, SB-649915 (up to 1 
microM) does not display intrinsic activity in HEK293 cells expressing human
recombinant 5-HT1A receptors but acts as a partial agonist at human recombinant
5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors with intrinsic activity values of 0.3 and 0.7,
respectively, as compared to the full agonist 5-HT. From Schild analysis,
SB-649915 caused a concentration-dependent, rightward shift of 5-HT-induced
stimulation of basal [35S]GTPgammaS binding in cells expressing human recombinant
5-HT1A or 5-HT1B receptors to yield pA2 values of 9.0 and 7.9, respectively. In
electrophysiological studies in rat dorsal raphe nucleus, SB-649915 did not
affect the cell firing rate up to 1 microM but attenuated
(+)8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin-induced inhibition of cell firing with
an apparent pKb value of 9.5. SB-649915 (1 microM) significantly attenuated
exogenous 5-HT-induced inhibition of electrically-stimulated [3H]5-HT release
from guinea pig cortex. In studies designed to enhance endogenous 5-HT levels,
and therefore increase tone at 5-HT1B autoreceptors, SB-649915 significantly
potentiated [3H]5-HT release at 100 and 1000 nM. In LLCPK cells expressing human 
recombinant 5-HT transporters and in rat cortical synaptosomes, SB-649915
inhibited [3H]5-HT re-uptake with pIC50 values of 7.9 and 9.7, respectively. In
summary, SB-649915 is a novel, potent 5-HT1A/1B autoreceptor antagonist and 5-HT 
re-uptake inhibitor in native tissue systems and represents a novel mechanism
that could offer fast acting antidepressant action.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2006.02.042 
PMID: 16571351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

