

2570. Mov Disord. 2006 Jun;21(6):839-46.

Histamine H3 receptor agonists reduce L-dopa-induced chorea, but not dystonia, in
the MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Gomez-Ramirez J(1), Johnston TH, Visanji NP, Fox SH, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a major complication of the treatment of 
Parkinson's disease. The neural mechanisms underlying LID are thought to involve 
overactivity of striatal glutamatergic neurotransmission, with resultant
underactivation of the output regions of the basal ganglia. Histamine H3
heteroreceptors can reduce glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)
transmission in the striatum and substantia nigra reticulata, respectively. Thus,
we tested whether the histamine H3 receptor agonists immepip and imetit can
alleviate LID in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.
Coadministration of immepip (1 mg/kg) with L-dopa (15 mg/kg) was associated with 
significantly less total dyskinesia than L-dopa alone. When dyskinesia was
separately rated as chorea and dystonia, coadministration of L-dopa with either
immepip or imetit (both 10 mg/kg) significantly reduced chorea but had no effect 
on dystonia. The antidyskinetic actions of the H3 agonists were not accompanied
by alteration of the antiparkinsonian actions of L-dopa. However, immepip (10
mg/kg), when administered as monotherapy, significantly increased parkinsonian
disability compared to vehicle. Overall, the results obtained in this study
suggest that histamine H3 receptors may be involved in the neural mechanisms
underlying L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.20828 
PMID: 16532454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2571. Drug Metab Dispos. 2006 Jun;34(6):971-5. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

In vitro blood distribution and plasma protein binding of the iron chelator
deferasirox (ICL670) and its iron complex Fe-[ICL670]2 for rat, marmoset, rabbit,
mouse, dog, and human.

Weiss HM(1), Fresneau M, Camenisch GP, Kretz O, Gross G.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland. markus.weiss@novartis.com

Deferasirox (Exjade, ICL670) is an orally active iron chelator. Two molecules of 
deferasirox can form a complex with ferric iron (Fe-[ICL670]2) that can be
excreted, reducing body iron overload. The blood binding parameters across
species and the interaction with human serum albumin were analyzed for
deferasirox and its iron complex. Both molecules were very highly bound to plasma
proteins in all the tested species with unbound fractions in plasma in the range 
of 0.4 to 1.8% and 0.2 to 1.2% for deferasirox and Fe-[ICL670]2, respectively;
binding of the iron complex was either similar or higher in all the species. The 
high plasma protein binding was in line with a distribution mainly into the
plasma fraction of blood; the fraction in plasma was around 100% for Fe-[ICL670]2
in all the species and 65 to 95% for deferasirox depending on the species.
Investigations with isolated proteins pointed to serum albumin as the principal
binding protein for deferasirox and its iron complex in human plasma. Competition
binding experiments indicated that deferasirox at high concentrations displaced
markers from the two main drug binding sites of human albumin, whereas
Fe-[ICL670]2 displaced only warfarin. In the context of the pharmacokinetic
properties of deferasirox and Fe-[ICL670]2, the data indicate the importance of
plasma protein binding for their disposition and support a comparison of the
pharmacokinetics of deferasirox and its iron complex across species. The low
likelihood of clinically relevant drug displacement by deferasirox in plasma is
discussed.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.105.006429 
PMID: 16531476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

