

2571. Drug Metab Dispos. 2006 Jun;34(6):971-5. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

In vitro blood distribution and plasma protein binding of the iron chelator
deferasirox (ICL670) and its iron complex Fe-[ICL670]2 for rat, marmoset, rabbit,
mouse, dog, and human.

Weiss HM(1), Fresneau M, Camenisch GP, Kretz O, Gross G.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland. markus.weiss@novartis.com

Deferasirox (Exjade, ICL670) is an orally active iron chelator. Two molecules of 
deferasirox can form a complex with ferric iron (Fe-[ICL670]2) that can be
excreted, reducing body iron overload. The blood binding parameters across
species and the interaction with human serum albumin were analyzed for
deferasirox and its iron complex. Both molecules were very highly bound to plasma
proteins in all the tested species with unbound fractions in plasma in the range 
of 0.4 to 1.8% and 0.2 to 1.2% for deferasirox and Fe-[ICL670]2, respectively;
binding of the iron complex was either similar or higher in all the species. The 
high plasma protein binding was in line with a distribution mainly into the
plasma fraction of blood; the fraction in plasma was around 100% for Fe-[ICL670]2
in all the species and 65 to 95% for deferasirox depending on the species.
Investigations with isolated proteins pointed to serum albumin as the principal
binding protein for deferasirox and its iron complex in human plasma. Competition
binding experiments indicated that deferasirox at high concentrations displaced
markers from the two main drug binding sites of human albumin, whereas
Fe-[ICL670]2 displaced only warfarin. In the context of the pharmacokinetic
properties of deferasirox and Fe-[ICL670]2, the data indicate the importance of
plasma protein binding for their disposition and support a comparison of the
pharmacokinetics of deferasirox and its iron complex across species. The low
likelihood of clinically relevant drug displacement by deferasirox in plasma is
discussed.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.105.006429 
PMID: 16531476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2572. Behav Brain Res. 2006 Jun 3;170(1):62-70. Epub 2006 Mar 13.

Quantification of three-dimensional exploration in the cylinder test by the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Przybyszewski AW(1), Sosale S, Chaudhuri A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, McGill University, 1205 Dr. Penfield Avenue,
Montreal, QC, Canada H3A 1B1. przy@ego.psych.mcgill.ca

Comment on
    Behav Brain Res. 2004 May 5;151(1-2):125-35.

The increasing trend in use of marmoset monkeys in behavioral studies has
necessitated a greater understanding of their natural behavior, especially within
confined spatial environments. One way to approach this issue is to examine
locomotor and exploratory strategies using the cylinder test, as done recently
for the rat by Gharbawie et al. [Gharbawie OA, Whishaw PA, Whishaw IQ. The
topography of three-dimensional exploration: a new quantification of vertical and
horizontal exploration, postural support, and exploratory bouts in the cylinder
test. Behav Brain Res 2004;151:125-35]. We have used this paradigm in conjunction
with Eshkol-Wachmann movement analysis in marmoset monkeys. We provide evidence
that marmosets display systematic changes in both horizontal and vertical
progressions during exploration. Quantitative analysis and comparison with the
extant data in rats showed both similarities and differences. For example, both
species display horizontal and vertical scanning movements, although the
variability is considerably greater for the marmoset. The horizontal progressions
consist of head scans, turning, and stepping. The amplitude of these progressions
oscillates and decreases with trial duration. Vertical progressions, which
consist of rears, head scans, and descent, also strongly oscillate but with
constant mean amplitude during a trial. The difference between the two species is
most evident in locomotor behavior. Rats use their forepaws primarily for
postural support and follow forequarter movements while body weight shifts are
generated by the hind limbs. Marmosets, however, can hold a vertical position
without hand support and display more complex movement characteristics during
exploration. The data from this study should be of use in designing experiments
in which marmosets are engaged in free-roaming behavior within a confined space.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2006.02.003 
PMID: 16530859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

