

2575. Immunogenetics. 2006 Apr;58(2-3):122-8. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

Restrictive and diversifying elements of the anti-myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein antibody response in primate experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis.

von Büdingen HC(1), Menge T, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zürich, 8091, Zürich,
Switzerland.

Autoantibody responses against conformational epitopes of myelin/oligodendrocyte 
glycoprotein (MOG) possess myelin destructive potential, as demonstrated in the
marmoset model of human multiple sclerosis (MS) and in some rodent models of
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. We have previously characterized
monoclonal Fab fragments specific for conformational epitopes of MOG that were
derived from a combinatorial antibody library generated from a MOG-immune
marmoset. In this paper, we address the molecular heterogeneity of humoral
responses against MOG in this outbred model of MS by studying additional antibody
clones derived from a genetically unrelated animal. We find that all MOG-specific
IgGkappa Fab fragments, unrelated to genetic make-up, utilize a restricted set of
variable region genes, IGHV1 and IGHV3 for the H chain and IGKV1, IGKV3, and
IGKV5 for the L chain. Despite these restricting factors, diversity within these 
antibody repertoires can be observed, predominantly within the H-chain CDR3
regions. Our findings suggest that only a limited set of Ig genes is necessary to
launch a diverse, destructive humoral immune response against a single CNS
antigen in primates. These results are the first to contribute to a better
understanding of how myelin-directed and potentially destructive autoantibody
responses may develop in human MS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-006-0100-y 
PMID: 16528499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2576. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2006 Jun;33(6):639-47. Epub 2006 Mar 8.

Synthesis and evaluation of radioiodinated
(S,S)-2-(alpha-(2-iodophenoxy)benzyl)morpholine for imaging brain norepinephrine 
transporter.

Kanegawa N(1), Kiyono Y, Kimura H, Sugita T, Kajiyama S, Kawashima H, Ueda M,
Kuge Y, Saji H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Patho-Functional Bioanalysis, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8501, Japan.

PURPOSE: Abnormality of the brain norepinephrine transporter (NET) has been
reported in several psychiatric and neuronal disorders. Since NET is an important
target for the diagnosis of these diseases, the development of
radiopharmaceuticals for imaging of brain NET has been eagerly awaited. In this
study, we synthesized (S,S)-2-(alpha-(2-iodophenoxy)benzyl)morpholine
[(S,S)-IPBM], a derivative of reboxetine iodinated at position 2 of the phenoxy
ring, and evaluated its potential as a radiopharmaceutical for imaging brain NET 
using SPECT.
METHODS: (S,S)-(123/125)I-IPBM was synthesized in a halogen exchange reaction.
The affinity and selectivity of (S,S)-IPBM for NET was measured by assaying the
displacement of (3)H-nisoxetine and (S,S)-(125)I-IPBM from the binding site in
rat brain membrane, respectively. The biodistribution of (S,S)-(125)I-IPBM was
also determined in rats. Furthermore, SPECT studies with (S,S)-(123)I-IPBM were
carried out in the common marmoset.
RESULTS: (S,S)-(125)I-IPBM was prepared with high radiochemical yields (65%) and 
high radiochemical purity (>98%). (S,S)-IPBM showed high affinity and selectivity
for NET in the binding assay experiments. In biodistribution experiments,
(S,S)-(125)I-IPBM showed rapid uptake in the brain, and the regional cerebral
distribution was consistent with the density of NET. The administration of
nisoxetine, a selective NET-binding agent, decreased the accumulation of
(S,S)-(125)I-IPBM in the brain, but the administration of selective serotonin
transporter and dopamine transporter binding agents caused no significant changes
in the accumulation. Moreover, (S,S)-(123)I-IPBM allowed brain NET imaging in the
common marmoset with SPECT.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that (S,S)-(123)I-IPBM is a potential SPECT
radiopharmaceutical for imaging brain NET.

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-005-0017-y 
PMID: 16523308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

