

2576. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2006 Jun;33(6):639-47. Epub 2006 Mar 8.

Synthesis and evaluation of radioiodinated
(S,S)-2-(alpha-(2-iodophenoxy)benzyl)morpholine for imaging brain norepinephrine 
transporter.

Kanegawa N(1), Kiyono Y, Kimura H, Sugita T, Kajiyama S, Kawashima H, Ueda M,
Kuge Y, Saji H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Patho-Functional Bioanalysis, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Kyoto University, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8501, Japan.

PURPOSE: Abnormality of the brain norepinephrine transporter (NET) has been
reported in several psychiatric and neuronal disorders. Since NET is an important
target for the diagnosis of these diseases, the development of
radiopharmaceuticals for imaging of brain NET has been eagerly awaited. In this
study, we synthesized (S,S)-2-(alpha-(2-iodophenoxy)benzyl)morpholine
[(S,S)-IPBM], a derivative of reboxetine iodinated at position 2 of the phenoxy
ring, and evaluated its potential as a radiopharmaceutical for imaging brain NET 
using SPECT.
METHODS: (S,S)-(123/125)I-IPBM was synthesized in a halogen exchange reaction.
The affinity and selectivity of (S,S)-IPBM for NET was measured by assaying the
displacement of (3)H-nisoxetine and (S,S)-(125)I-IPBM from the binding site in
rat brain membrane, respectively. The biodistribution of (S,S)-(125)I-IPBM was
also determined in rats. Furthermore, SPECT studies with (S,S)-(123)I-IPBM were
carried out in the common marmoset.
RESULTS: (S,S)-(125)I-IPBM was prepared with high radiochemical yields (65%) and 
high radiochemical purity (>98%). (S,S)-IPBM showed high affinity and selectivity
for NET in the binding assay experiments. In biodistribution experiments,
(S,S)-(125)I-IPBM showed rapid uptake in the brain, and the regional cerebral
distribution was consistent with the density of NET. The administration of
nisoxetine, a selective NET-binding agent, decreased the accumulation of
(S,S)-(125)I-IPBM in the brain, but the administration of selective serotonin
transporter and dopamine transporter binding agents caused no significant changes
in the accumulation. Moreover, (S,S)-(123)I-IPBM allowed brain NET imaging in the
common marmoset with SPECT.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that (S,S)-(123)I-IPBM is a potential SPECT
radiopharmaceutical for imaging brain NET.

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-005-0017-y 
PMID: 16523308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2577. J Vis. 2006 Feb 2;6(2):97-105.

Contribution of chromatic aberrations to color signals in the primate visual
system.

Forte JD(1), Blessing EM, Buz√°s P, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Department of Optometry and
Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Australia.
jforte@optometry.unimelb.edu.au

We measured responses to red-green color variation in parvocellular (PC) neurons 
in the lateral geniculate nucleus of dichromatic ("red-green color blind")
marmoset monkeys. Although these animals lack distinct visual pigments to
distinguish between wavelengths in this range, many of the colored stimuli
nevertheless produced robust responses in PC cells. We show that these responses,
which are restricted to high stimulus spatial frequencies (fine image details),
arise from chromatic aberrations in the eye. The neural signals produced by
chromatic aberrations are of comparable magnitude to signals produced by
high-frequency luminance (LUM) modulation and thus could influence cortical
pathways for processing of color and object recognition. The fact that
genetically "color-blind" primates are not necessarily blind to
wavelength-dependent contours in the visual world may have enabled red-green
color vision to become linked with high-acuity spatial vision during primate
evolution.

DOI: 10.1167/6.2.1 
PMID: 16522137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

