

2577. J Vis. 2006 Feb 2;6(2):97-105.

Contribution of chromatic aberrations to color signals in the primate visual
system.

Forte JD(1), Blessing EM, Buz√°s P, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Department of Optometry and
Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Australia.
jforte@optometry.unimelb.edu.au

We measured responses to red-green color variation in parvocellular (PC) neurons 
in the lateral geniculate nucleus of dichromatic ("red-green color blind")
marmoset monkeys. Although these animals lack distinct visual pigments to
distinguish between wavelengths in this range, many of the colored stimuli
nevertheless produced robust responses in PC cells. We show that these responses,
which are restricted to high stimulus spatial frequencies (fine image details),
arise from chromatic aberrations in the eye. The neural signals produced by
chromatic aberrations are of comparable magnitude to signals produced by
high-frequency luminance (LUM) modulation and thus could influence cortical
pathways for processing of color and object recognition. The fact that
genetically "color-blind" primates are not necessarily blind to
wavelength-dependent contours in the visual world may have enabled red-green
color vision to become linked with high-acuity spatial vision during primate
evolution.

DOI: 10.1167/6.2.1 
PMID: 16522137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2578. Genes Genet Syst. 2005 Dec;80(6):415-22.

Analysis of newly identified low copy AluYj subfamily.

Park ES(1), Huh JW, Kim TH, Kwak KD, Kim W, Kim HS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Pusan National
University, Buscan, Korea.

Human specific AluY elements were investigated by comparative analysis between
human chromosome 21 and chimpanzee chromosome 22. Human specific AluY element was
identified on human chromosome 21q22 (accession no. AL163282), and then that was 
a new member of AluYj subfamily. From the bioinformatic analysis, AluYj subfamily
was investigated in human whole genome using AluYj4 consensus sequence (accession
no. AL163282). Thirteen members of the AluYj4 elements (4 diagnostic mutations)
and eight members of the AluYj3 elements (3 diagnostic mutations) were identified
with distinct diagnostic mutation from AluY consensus sequence. The results of
the molecular clock calculation of non-CpG region substitution indicated that,
AluYj4 elements (2.1 million years old) may be proliferated more recent time than
AluYj3 elements (14.1 million years old). For the verification of recent
insertion time, four of AluYj4 elements (ch2-AC017101, ch10-AC044786,
ch12-AC007656 and ch21-AL163282) from human chromosomes 2, 10, 12, 21 were
analyzed by PCR amplification using various human and primate DNA samples.
Though, no polymorphism was detected in human population, we identified the new
AluYj4 subfamily as the human specific elements.

DOI: 10.1266/ggs.80.415 
PMID: 16501310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

