

2584. Horm Behav. 2006 May;49(5):673-80. Epub 2006 Feb 9.

Suppression of prolactin does not reduce infant care by parentally experienced
male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Almond RE(1), Brown GR, Keverne EB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, 1202 West Johnson Street,
Madison, WI 53706, USA. almond@wisc.edu

High levels of prolactin have been found to correlate with the expression of
paternal care in a variety of taxa. However, in mammals, there is little
experimental evidence that prolactin is causally involved in the stimulation or
maintenance of paternal care. Here, we suppressed prolactin production in
paternally experienced common marmoset fathers in their family groups during the 
first 2 weeks after their infants were born. Circulating prolactin levels were
suppressed using cabergoline (Dostinex: Pfizer), a long acting dopamine (D2)
agonist with minimal behavioural side-effects. A within-subject design was used
to compare behavioural and hormonal data on 5 paternally experienced fathers
during two consecutive births. Cabergoline reduced prolactin to negligible levels
in all fathers without effecting testosterone, DHT and cortisol and without
adverse side-effects. However, lowering prolactin had no significant effect on
the expression of majority of the behaviour patterns associated with paternal
care. These included infant carrying, infant grooming and the frequency with
which fathers retrieved and rejected infants. The only infant-related behaviour
to be affected was the frequency with which fathers touched, licked and
investigated infants. We noted a marginally significant increase in this
behaviour during cabergoline treatment. Despite the lack of effect on paternal
care, cabergoline did exert an effect on the affiliative/sexual behaviour of
fathers as there was a significant increase in the grooming behaviour fathers
directed at and received from their mates during drug treatment. This study
showed that experienced male marmosets can express paternal behaviour in the
absence of the high prolactin levels normally seen after infants are born.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.12.009 
PMID: 16480723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2585. Drug Discov Today. 2006 Jan;11(1-2):58-66.

MRI-guided immunotherapy development for multiple sclerosis in a primate.

't Hart BA(1), Smith P, Amor S, Strijkers GJ, Blezer EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Multiple sclerosis is a serious neurological disease that affects 1 in 1000 young
adults in Europe and the USA. The development of an effective therapy for this
enigmatic disease is plagued by the failure of many treatments to reproduce in
patients the promising effects observed in animal models. This review describes a
new preclinical model in a non-human primate that might help to bridge the gap
between currently used animal models and the patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S1359-6446(05)03673-1 
PMID: 16478692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

