

2587. J Neurochem. 2006 Mar;96(5):1315-21. Epub 2006 Feb 8.

Pramipexole protects against MPTP toxicity in non-human primates.

Iravani MM(1), Haddon CO, Cooper JM, Jenner P, Schapira AH.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College, London, UK.

The neurotoxin MPTP induces nigral dopaminergic cell death in primates and
produces a partial model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Pramipexole is a D2/D3
dopamine receptor agonist used in the symptomatic treatment of PD, and which also
protects neuronal cells against dopaminergic toxins in vitro. We now demonstrate 
that pramipexole partially prevents MPTP toxicity in vivo in a primate species.
Common marmosets were repeatedly treated with pramipexole either before,
coincidentally with, or after low-dose MPTP treatment designed to induce a
partial lesion of the substantia nigra. Animals pretreated with pramipexole had a
significantly greater number of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive
neurones in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. Pramipexole pretreatment
also prevented degeneration of striatal dopamine terminals. Treatment with
pramipexole concurrently with MPTP or following MPTP did not prevent TH-positive 
cell loss. Pramipexole pretreatment appears to induce adaptive changes that
protect against dopaminergic cell loss in primates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2005.03625.x 
PMID: 16464239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2588. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Feb 14;103(7):2280-5. Epub 2006 Feb 3.

Antibodies to native myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein are serologic markers of
early inflammation in multiple sclerosis.

Lalive PH(1), Menge T, Delarasse C, Della Gaspera B, Pham-Dinh D, Villoslada P,
von BÃ¼dingen HC, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143,
USA.

Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is an integral membrane protein
expressed in CNS oligodendrocytes and outermost myelin lamellae. Anti-MOG Abs
cause myelin destruction (demyelination) in animal models of multiple sclerosis
(MS); however, such pathogenic Abs have not yet been characterized in humans.
Here, a method that specifically detects IgG binding to human MOG in its native, 
membrane-embedded conformation on MOG-transfected mammalian cells was used to
evaluate the significance of these auto Abs. Compared with healthy controls,
native MOG-specific IgGs were most frequently found in serum of clinically
isolated syndromes (P < 0.001) and relapsing-remitting MS (P < 0.01), only
marginally in secondary progressive MS (P < 0.05), and not at all in primary
progressive MS. We demonstrate that epitopes exposed in this cell-based assay are
different from those exposed on the refolded, extracellular domain of human
recombinant MOG tested by solid-phase ELISA. In marmoset monkeys induced to
develop MS-like CNS inflammatory demyelination, IgG reactivity against the native
membrane-bound MOG is always detected before clinical onset of disease (P <
0.0001), unlike that against other myelin constituents. We conclude that (i)
epitopes displayed on native, glycosylated MOG expressed in vivo are early
targets for pathogenic Abs; (ii) these Abs, which are not detected in solid-phase
assays, might be the ones to play a pathogenic role in early MS with predominant 
inflammatory activity; and (iii) the cell-based assay provides a practical
serologic marker for early detection of CNS autoimmune demyelination including
its preclinical stage at least in the primate MS model.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0510672103 
PMCID: PMC1413723
PMID: 16461459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

