

2588. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Feb 14;103(7):2280-5. Epub 2006 Feb 3.

Antibodies to native myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein are serologic markers of
early inflammation in multiple sclerosis.

Lalive PH(1), Menge T, Delarasse C, Della Gaspera B, Pham-Dinh D, Villoslada P,
von BÃ¼dingen HC, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143,
USA.

Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is an integral membrane protein
expressed in CNS oligodendrocytes and outermost myelin lamellae. Anti-MOG Abs
cause myelin destruction (demyelination) in animal models of multiple sclerosis
(MS); however, such pathogenic Abs have not yet been characterized in humans.
Here, a method that specifically detects IgG binding to human MOG in its native, 
membrane-embedded conformation on MOG-transfected mammalian cells was used to
evaluate the significance of these auto Abs. Compared with healthy controls,
native MOG-specific IgGs were most frequently found in serum of clinically
isolated syndromes (P < 0.001) and relapsing-remitting MS (P < 0.01), only
marginally in secondary progressive MS (P < 0.05), and not at all in primary
progressive MS. We demonstrate that epitopes exposed in this cell-based assay are
different from those exposed on the refolded, extracellular domain of human
recombinant MOG tested by solid-phase ELISA. In marmoset monkeys induced to
develop MS-like CNS inflammatory demyelination, IgG reactivity against the native
membrane-bound MOG is always detected before clinical onset of disease (P <
0.0001), unlike that against other myelin constituents. We conclude that (i)
epitopes displayed on native, glycosylated MOG expressed in vivo are early
targets for pathogenic Abs; (ii) these Abs, which are not detected in solid-phase
assays, might be the ones to play a pathogenic role in early MS with predominant 
inflammatory activity; and (iii) the cell-based assay provides a practical
serologic marker for early detection of CNS autoimmune demyelination including
its preclinical stage at least in the primate MS model.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0510672103 
PMCID: PMC1413723
PMID: 16461459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2589. Cancer Lett. 2006 Feb 8;232(2):189-98.

siRNA targeting LMP1-induced apoptosis in EBV-positive lymphoma cells is
associated with inhibition of telomerase activity and expression.

Mei YP(1), Zhu XF, Zhou JM, Huang H, Deng R, Zeng YX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Research, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in
Southern China, Cancer Center, Sun Yat-sen University, 651 DongFeng Road East,
GuangZhou 510060, China.

Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) is closely associated with B cell malignancies. However,
whether EBV appears to be absolutely required for cell proliferation and survival
in lymphoma cells is still unknown. In this study, small interfering RNA (siRNA) 
targeting LMP1 was employed to investigate the effect of LMP1 on cell
proliferation in EBV-positive lymphoblastoid B-cell line. A plasmid stable
encoding 21-nt small RNA specifically and efficiently interfering LMP1 was
constructed, resulting in a substantial loss of LMP1 mRNA and a significantly
decreased LMP1 protein expression. Our data demonstrated that cell proliferation 
was completely inhibited and apoptosis was induced after knockdown of LMP1 gene
in lymphoblastoid B-cell line. Also, we found that suppression of LMP1 caused
downregulation of telomerase protein expression and decreased telomerase activity
in lymphoma cells. In EBV-negative NPC cell line, transfection of plasmid
expressing LMP1 greatly enhanced telomerase protein expression. Our results
suggested that siRNA targeting LMP1 can induce apoptosis in EBV-positive lymphoma
cells and is associated with inhibition of telomerase activity and expression.
siRNA-directed LMP1 silencing may be of the therapeutic value for preventing and 
treating those EBV-associated tumors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2005.02.010 
PMID: 16458115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

