

2591. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Mar 10;495(2):149-72.

Cytoarchitectonic subdivisions of the dorsolateral frontal cortex of the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus), and their projections to dorsal visual areas.

Burman KJ(1), Palmer SM, Gamberini M, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

We describe the organization of the dorsolateral frontal areas in marmoset
monkeys using a combination of architectural methods (Nissl, cytochrome oxidase, 
and myelin stains) and injections of fluorescent tracers in extrastriate areas
(the second visual area [V2], the dorsomedial and dorsoanterior areas [DM, DA],
the middle temporal area and middle temporal crescent [MT, MTc], and the
posterior parietal cortex [area 7]). Cytoarchitectural field 8 comprises three
subdivisions: 8Av, 8Ad, and 8B. The ventrolateral subdivision, 8Av, forms the
principal source of frontal projections to the "dorsal stream," having
connections with each of the injected visual areas. The cytoarchitectural
characteristics of 8Av suggest that this subdivision corresponds to the
marmoset's frontal eye field. The intermediate subdivision of area 8 (8Ad) has
efferent projections to area 7, while the dorsomedial subdivision (8B) has few or
no connections with extrastriate cortex. Area 46, located rostrolateral to area
8Av, has substantial connections with the medial extrastriate areas (DM, DA, and 
area 7) and with MT, while the cortex lateral to 8Av (area 12/45) projects
primarily to MT and to the MTc. The rostromedial prefrontal (area 9) and
frontopolar (area 10) regions have very few extrastriate projections. Finally,
cells in dorsal area 6 (6d) have sparse projections to DM, MT, and the MTc, as
well as strong projections to DA and to area 7. These results illuminate aspects 
of the evolutionary development of the primate frontal cortex, and serve as a
basis for further research into cognitive functions using a marmoset model.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20837 
PMID: 16435289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2592. Primates. 2006 Jul;47(3):187-98. Epub 2006 Jan 24.

A new mark test for mirror self-recognition in non-human primates.

Heschl A(1), Burkart J.

Author information: 
(1)Konrad Lorenz Institute for Evolution and Cognition Research, Adolf Lorenz
Gasse 2, 3422, Altenberg, Austria. adolf.heschl@uni-graz.at

For 30 years Gallup's (Science 167:86-87, 1970) mark test, which consists of
confronting a mirror-experienced test animal with its own previously altered
mirror image, usually a color mark on forehead, eyebrow or ear, has delivered
valuable results about the distribution of visual self-recognition in non-human
primates. Chimpanzees, bonobos, orangutans and, less frequently, gorillas can
learn to correctly understand the reflection of their body in a mirror. However, 
the standard version of the mark test is good only for positively proving the
existence of self-recognition. Conclusive statements about the lack of
self-recognition are more difficult because of the methodological constraints of 
the test. This situation has led to a persistent controversy about the power of
Gallup's original technique. We devised a new variant of the test which permits
more unequivocal decisions about both the presence and absence of
self-recognition. This new procedure was tested with marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus), following extensive training with mirror-related tasks to facilitate
performance in the standard mark test. The results show that a slightly altered
mark test with a new marking substance (chocolate cream) can help to reliably
discriminate between true negative results, indicating a real lack of ability to 
recognize oneself in a mirror, from false negative results that are due to
methodological particularities of the standard test. Finally, an evolutionary
hypothesis is put forward as to why many primates can use a mirror instrumentally
- i.e. know how to use it for grasping at hidden objects - while failing in the
decisive mark test.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-005-0170-8 
PMID: 16432640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

