

2592. Primates. 2006 Jul;47(3):187-98. Epub 2006 Jan 24.

A new mark test for mirror self-recognition in non-human primates.

Heschl A(1), Burkart J.

Author information: 
(1)Konrad Lorenz Institute for Evolution and Cognition Research, Adolf Lorenz
Gasse 2, 3422, Altenberg, Austria. adolf.heschl@uni-graz.at

For 30 years Gallup's (Science 167:86-87, 1970) mark test, which consists of
confronting a mirror-experienced test animal with its own previously altered
mirror image, usually a color mark on forehead, eyebrow or ear, has delivered
valuable results about the distribution of visual self-recognition in non-human
primates. Chimpanzees, bonobos, orangutans and, less frequently, gorillas can
learn to correctly understand the reflection of their body in a mirror. However, 
the standard version of the mark test is good only for positively proving the
existence of self-recognition. Conclusive statements about the lack of
self-recognition are more difficult because of the methodological constraints of 
the test. This situation has led to a persistent controversy about the power of
Gallup's original technique. We devised a new variant of the test which permits
more unequivocal decisions about both the presence and absence of
self-recognition. This new procedure was tested with marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus), following extensive training with mirror-related tasks to facilitate
performance in the standard mark test. The results show that a slightly altered
mark test with a new marking substance (chocolate cream) can help to reliably
discriminate between true negative results, indicating a real lack of ability to 
recognize oneself in a mirror, from false negative results that are due to
methodological particularities of the standard test. Finally, an evolutionary
hypothesis is put forward as to why many primates can use a mirror instrumentally
- i.e. know how to use it for grasping at hidden objects - while failing in the
decisive mark test.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-005-0170-8 
PMID: 16432640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2593. J Med Primatol. 2006 Feb;35(1):18-24.

The ductus venosus and intrahepatic venous system in Callithrix jacchus jacchus
and Macaca fascicularis fetuses.

Tchirikov M(1), Schlabritz-Loutsevitch NE, Hubbard GB, Tardif S, Schr√∂der HJ,
Nathanielsz PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Fetal Medicine, University Medical Centre
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. tchiriko@uke.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: The ductus venosus (DV) and the intrahepatic branches of the portal
vein are arranged as parallel vessels. Blood shunting through the DV ensures
fetal survival during periods of stress. The availability of a suitable animal
model with similar structure and function to the human fetus would greatly
improve the understanding of DV function. The anatomical and histological
structure of the DV has not been thoroughly investigated in non-human primate
species.
METHODS: Morphological investigations were performed on eight marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus) at 112.5 +/- 5.5 days gestational age (mean +/- SEM)
and four near-term (165 days) cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis) fetuses.
RESULTS: The DV drains into the collectus venosus. An asymmetrical muscular lip
forms a contractile element of the isthmic portion of the DV. A spherical
'dividing' eminence was found on the dorsal wall of the venous collector just
above the outlet of the DV in marmoset fetuses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings regarding the structure of the DV in cynomolgus and
marmoset fetuses were generally in agreement with previous descriptions of the
morpho-histological structure of the DV in human fetuses.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2005.00142.x 
PMID: 16430491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

