

2593. J Med Primatol. 2006 Feb;35(1):18-24.

The ductus venosus and intrahepatic venous system in Callithrix jacchus jacchus
and Macaca fascicularis fetuses.

Tchirikov M(1), Schlabritz-Loutsevitch NE, Hubbard GB, Tardif S, Schr√∂der HJ,
Nathanielsz PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Fetal Medicine, University Medical Centre
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. tchiriko@uke.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: The ductus venosus (DV) and the intrahepatic branches of the portal
vein are arranged as parallel vessels. Blood shunting through the DV ensures
fetal survival during periods of stress. The availability of a suitable animal
model with similar structure and function to the human fetus would greatly
improve the understanding of DV function. The anatomical and histological
structure of the DV has not been thoroughly investigated in non-human primate
species.
METHODS: Morphological investigations were performed on eight marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus) at 112.5 +/- 5.5 days gestational age (mean +/- SEM)
and four near-term (165 days) cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis) fetuses.
RESULTS: The DV drains into the collectus venosus. An asymmetrical muscular lip
forms a contractile element of the isthmic portion of the DV. A spherical
'dividing' eminence was found on the dorsal wall of the venous collector just
above the outlet of the DV in marmoset fetuses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings regarding the structure of the DV in cynomolgus and
marmoset fetuses were generally in agreement with previous descriptions of the
morpho-histological structure of the DV in human fetuses.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2005.00142.x 
PMID: 16430491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2594. Am J Primatol. 2006 Feb;68(2):181-8.

Pattern of maternal serum corticotropin-releasing hormone concentration during
pregnancy in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Power ML(1), Bowman ME, Smith R, Ziegler TE, Layne DG, Schulkin J, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Smithsonian's National Zoological Park, Washington, DC 20008, USA.
POWERM@nzp.si.edu

Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), a potent neuropeptide, is produced by the 
placenta of anthropoid primates. No other mammals, including prosimian primates, 
are known to produce placental CRH. In humans, placental CRH appears to play an
important role in the progression of pregnancy to parturition. Maternal
circulating CRH begins to rise early in pregnancy and increases until
parturition. Gorillas and chimpanzees share this pattern of increasing maternal
CRH during pregnancy with humans. In humans, chimpanzees, and gorillas, maternal 
CRH and estradiol concentrations are correlated, consistent with the hypothesis
that CRH is involved in the biosynthetic pathway for placental estrogen
production. In contrast, in baboons, maternal circulating CRH rises precipitously
early in pregnancy and then declines, though CRH is detectable until birth. This 
research was designed to investigate the pattern of maternal circulating CRH in
the common marmoset during pregnancy. Blood samples were taken across gestation
from nine subjects over 11 pregnancies, and the plasma was assayed for CRH. The
pattern of maternal circulating CRH in the common marmoset was similar to that of
the baboon, with a rapid rise starting at about 50 days postconception and a peak
at approximately 70 days postconception. By 110 days postconception, CRH
concentration had plateaued at a significantly lower value. The peak and mean
values for CRH were associated with fetal number (e.g., females gestating
triplets had higher values than females gestating twins). Urinary estradiol
showed no association with plasma CRH concentration. Marmosets appear to differ
from the great apes in this regard, and to share a pattern of maternal CRH during
pregnancy with the baboon, indicating that the baboon and marmoset pattern may be
ancestral. The function of the early rapid rise of CRH in baboons and marmosets, 
and the significance of this difference between monkeys and apes, are not known.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20215 
PMID: 16429419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

