

2598. Acta Virol. 2005;49(4):227-34.

Inhibition of Measles virus multiplication in cell culture by RNA interference.

Hu L(1), Wang Z, Hu C, Liu X, Yao L, Li W, Qi Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Science, Wuhan
University, Wuhan 430072, P.R. China.

Measles takes a toll of one million people a year worldwide, especially in
developing countries. As the so far applied vaccines were not able to control
this disease, novel approaches to this problem are needed. In this study, we
investigated the possibility of inhibition of Measles virus (MV) infection
through RNA interference (RNAi), namely the interference with the second but main
receptor of MV, signaling lymphocyte activation molecule (SLAM), in an
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed marmoset B cell line B95-8. Three potential 
target sequences in the SLAM gene were chosen and cloned into the pSilencer
3.0-H1 vector. The vector constructs were used for transfection of B95-8 cells in
which SLAM was then detected by flow cytometry, Western blot analysis and RT-PCR 
both at transcription and expression levels. One of the vector constructs was
found to block effectively the SLAM expression as well as MV infection. These
results suggest that RNAi could silence SLAM expression and inhibit the MV
infection of host cells.


PMID: 16402679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2599. Brain Res Bull. 2006 Jan 30;68(5):315-21. Epub 2005 Oct 18.

Elucidating coding of taste qualities with the taste modifier miraculin in the
common marmoset.

Danilova V(1), Hellekant G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 1655 Linden Drive, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

To investigate the relationships between the activity in different types of taste
fibers and the gustatory behavior in marmosets, we used the taste modifier
miraculin, which in humans adds a sweet taste quality to sour stimuli. In
behavioral experiments, we measured marmosets' consumption of acids before and
after tongue application of miraculin. In electrophysiological experiments
responses of single taste fibers in chorda tympani and glossopharyngeal nerves
were recorded before and after tongue application of miraculin. We found that
after miraculin marmosets consumed acids more readily. Taste nerve recordings
showed that after miraculin taste fibers which usually respond only to
sweeteners, S fibers, became responsive to acids. These results further support
our hypothesis that the activity in S fibers is translated into a hedonically
positive behavioral response.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2005.09.008 
PMID: 16377437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

