

26. J Exp Zool A Ecol Integr Physiol. 2022 Jan 5. doi: 10.1002/jez.2574. [Epub ahead 
of print]

Robust locomotor performance of squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) in
response to simulated changes in support diameter and compliance.

Schapker NM(1)(2), Chadwell BA(3), Young JW(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, Ohio, USA.
(2)Cellular and Molecular Biology Program, School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent
State University, Kent, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Anatomy, Idaho College of Osteopathic Medicine (ICOM), Meridian,
Idaho, USA.

Arboreal environments require overcoming navigational challenges not typically
encountered in other terrestrial habitats. Supports are unevenly distributed and 
vary in diameter, orientation, and compliance. To better understand the
strategies that arboreal animals use to maintain stability in this environment,
laboratory researchers must endeavor to mimic those conditions. Here, we evaluate
how squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) adjust their locomotor mechanics in
response to variation in support diameter and compliance. We used high-speed
cameras to film two juvenile female monkeys as they walked across poles of
varying diameters (5, 2.5, and 1.25 cm). Poles were mounted on either a stiff
wooden base ("stable" condition) or foam blocks ("compliant" condition). Six
force transducers embedded within the pole trackway recorded substrate reaction
forces during locomotion. We predicted that squirrel monkeys would walk more
slowly on narrow and compliant supports and adopt more "compliant" gait
mechanics, increasing stride lengths, duty factors, and an average number of
limbs gripping the support, while the decreasing center of mass height, stride
frequencies, and peak forces. We observed few significant adjustments to squirrel
monkey locomotor kinematics in response to changes in either support diameter or 
compliance, and the changes we did observe were often tempered by interactions
with locomotor speed. These results differ from a similar study of common
marmosets (i.e., Callithrix jacchus, with relatively poor grasping abilities),
where variation in diameter and compliance substantially impacted gait
kinematics. Squirrel monkeys' strong grasping apparatus, long and mobile tails,
and other adaptations for arboreal travel likely facilitate robust locomotor
performance despite substrate precarity.

© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jez.2574 
PMID: 34985803 


27. Biochem Pharmacol. 2022 Mar;197:114887. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2021.114887. Epub 2021
Dec 27.

Drug-oxidizing and conjugating non-cytochrome P450 (non-P450) enzymes in
cynomolgus monkeys and common marmosets as preclinical models for humans.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Kagoshima 890-8580, Japan.
(2)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(3)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic
address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Many drug oxidations and conjugations are mediated by a variety of cytochromes
P450 (P450) and non-P450 enzymes in humans and non-human primates. These non-P450
enzymes include aldehyde oxidases (AOX), carboxylesterases (CES),
flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO), glutathione S-transferases (GST),
arylamine N-acetyltransferases (NAT),sulfotransferases (SULT), and uridine
5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) and their substrates include both
endobiotics and xenobiotics. Cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis, an
Old-World monkey) are widely used in preclinical studies because of their genetic
and physiological similarities to humans. However, many reports have indicated
the usefulness of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus, a New World monkey) as an
alternative non-human primate model. Although knowledge of the drug-metabolizing 
properties of non-P450 enzymes in non-human primates is relatively limited, new
research has started to provide an insight into the molecular characteristics of 
these enzymes in cynomolgus macaques and common marmosets. This mini-review
provides collective information on the isoforms of non-P450 enzymes AOX, CES,
FMO, GST, NAT, SULT, and UGT and their enzymatic profiles in cynomolgus macaques 
and common marmosets. In general, these non-P450 cynomolgus macaque and marmoset 
enzymes have high sequence identities and similar substrate recognitions to their
human counterparts. However, these enzymes also exhibit some limited differences 
in function between species, just as P450 enzymes do, possibly due to small
structural differences in amino acid residues. The findings summarized here
provide a foundation for understanding the molecular mechanisms of polymorphic
non-P450 enzymes and should contribute to the successful application of non-human
primates as model animals for humans.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2021.114887 
PMID: 34968483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

