

2600. Biol Reprod. 2006 Apr;74(4):706-13. Epub 2005 Dec 21.

Meiosis in autologous ectopic transplants of immature testicular tissue grafted
to Callithrix jacchus.

Wistuba J(1), Luetjens CM, Wesselmann R, Nieschlag E, Simoni M, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Münster, 48129 Münster,
Germany. joachim.wistuba@ukmuenster.de

Grafting of immature testicular tissue provides a tool to examine testicular
development and may offer a perspective for preservation of fertility in
prepubertal patients. Successful xenografting in mice, resulting in mature
spermatids, has been performed in several species but has failed with testicular 
tissues from the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Previous data indicate that
the hormonal milieu provided by the mouse host might cause this failure. We
conducted autologous ectopic transplantation of testicular fragments under the
back skin in newborn marmoset monkeys. Seventeen months after transplantation, we
found viable transplants in 2 out of the 4 grafted animals. In the transplants,
tubules developed up to a state intermediate between the pregraft situation and
adult controls. Dividing spermatogonia and primary spermatocytes were present.
Boule-like positivity and CDC25A negativity indicated that spermatogenesis was
arrested at early meiosis. Immunohistochemistry revealed normal maturation of
Sertoli cells, Leydig cells, and peritubular cells. Serum testosterone values
were not restored to the normal range and bioactive chorionic gonadotropin levels
increased to castrate levels. Meiotic arrest could have occurred in the grafts
because of lack of sufficient testosterone or because of hyperthermia caused by
the ectopic position of the grafts. We conclude that autologous transplants of
immature testicular tissues in the marmoset can mature up to meiosis but that
normal serum testosterone levels are not restored. Further studies have to be
performed to overcome the meiotic arrest to explore the model further and to
develop therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.105.048793 
PMID: 16371588  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2601. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2006 Sep;113(9):1243-51. Epub 2005 Dec 14.

Very long term studies of the seeding of beta-amyloidosis in primates.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Windle CP, Cummings RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Cerebral beta-amyloidosis was found in 16/18 marmosets aged <10 yrs and 8/9
marmosets aged >10 yrs, injected intracerebrally with human or marmoset brain
homogenate containing beta-amyloid 1-8 years previously. It was found in only
2/12 marmosets aged <10 yrs and 1/15 marmosets aged >10 yrs, injected with
synthetic Abeta-peptides, CSF, or brain tissue which did not contain
beta-amyloid. Cerebral beta-amyloidosis was found in 0/11 uninjected marmosets
aged <10 yrs and in 5/29 uninjected marmosets aged >10 yrs. The beta-amyloidosis 
comprised small and large vessel angiopathy and some plaques throughout cortex
and was qualitatively similar in injected marmosets and, when present, in
uninjected marmosets. Of those injected marmosets which were positive, the amount
of beta-amyloidosis was unrelated to age or incubation times but the 3 injected
marmosets without beta-amyloidosis had incubation times of <3.5 years. We
conclude that beta-amyloid, or associated factors, can initiate or accelerate the
process of cerebral amyloidosis in primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-005-0385-2 
PMID: 16362635  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

