

2602. Vet Res Commun. 2006 Jan;30(1):103-8.

Marmoset B95a cells: a sensitive system for cultivation of Peste des petits
ruminants (PPR) virus.

Sreenivasa BP(1), Singh RP, Mondal B, Dhar P, Bandyopadhyay SK.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Virology, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Mukteswar Campus, 
Nainital, Uttaranchal, 263138, India.

DOI: 10.1007/s11259-005-3200-5 
PMID: 16362615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2603. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2006 Jan;288(1):26-35.

Specializations of the granular prefrontal cortex of primates: implications for
cognitive processing.

Elston GN(1), Benavides-Piccione R, Elston A, Zietsch B, Defelipe J, Manger P,
Casagrande V, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, School of Biomedical Sciences and
Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, Australia.
g.elston@vthrc.uq.edu.au

The biological underpinnings of human intelligence remain enigmatic. There
remains the greatest confusion and controversy regarding mechanisms that enable
humans to conceptualize, plan, and prioritize, and why they are set apart from
other animals in their cognitive abilities. Here we demonstrate that the basic
neuronal building block of the cerebral cortex, the pyramidal cell, is
characterized by marked differences in structure among primate species. Moreover,
comparison of the complexity of neuron structure with the size of the cortical
area/region in which the cells are located revealed that trends in the granular
prefrontal cortex (gPFC) were dramatically different to those in visual cortex.
More specifically, pyramidal cells in the gPFC of humans had a disproportionately
high number of spines. As neuron structure determines both its biophysical
properties and connectivity, differences in the complexity in dendritic structure
observed here endow neurons with different computational abilities. Furthermore, 
cortical circuits composed of neurons with distinguishable morphologies will
likely be characterized by different functional capabilities. We propose that 1. 
circuitry in V1, V2, and gPFC within any given species differs in its functional 
capabilities and 2. there are dramatic differences in the functional capabilities
of gPFC circuitry in different species, which are central to the different
cognitive styles of primates. In particular, the highly branched, spinous neurons
in the human gPFC may be a key component of human intelligence.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20278 
PMID: 16342214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

