

2605. Brain Res Bull. 2005 Dec 30;68(3):140-9. Epub 2005 Sep 7.

Marmoset monkey models of Parkinson's disease: which model, when and why?

Eslamboli A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Cambridge University, Cambridge CB2
3EB, UK. Andisheh.2.Eslamboli@gsk.com

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disease, with
clinical features of tremor, muscular rigidity and akinesia, occurring as a
result of midbrain dopamine loss. The search for treatments has relied heavily on
animal models of the disorder. The use of monkey models of PD plays a distinct
role in the development and assessment of novel treatments. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) is a popular New World monkey used in the search for new
treatments. These monkeys are easy to handle and survive well in captivity. This 
review examines the advantages of using marmoset monkeys in PD research and
examines the different models available with reference to their use in
pre-clinical assessment for novel therapeutic treatments. The most common models 
involve the administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Recently, selective cerebral transgenic
over-expression of alpha-synuclein has also been attempted in marmosets as a
potential model for PD. Each model has its advantages. The MPTP-based model in
marmosets resembles the disease with regards to the neuroanatomy of
neurotransmitter loss; the unilateral application of 6-OHDA allows for the
assessment of more complex sensorimotor deficits due to the presence of an intact
'control' side; the over-expression of alpha-synuclein in the midbrain results in
the slow onset of behavioural symptoms allowing for a pre-symptomatic time
window. The appropriateness of each of these marmoset models for the assessment
of treatments depends on several factors including the experimental aim of the
study and whether emphasis is placed on the analysis of behavioural deficits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2005.08.005 
PMID: 16325013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2606. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Dec;22(11):2886-902.

Heteromodal connections supporting multisensory integration at low levels of
cortical processing in the monkey.

Cappe C(1), Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Cerveau & Cognition, CNRS-UMR 5549 Universit√© Paul Sabatier, Toulouse III,
Toulouse, France.

While multisensory integration is thought to occur in higher hierarchical
cortical areas, recent studies in man and monkey have revealed plurisensory
modulations of activity in areas previously thought to be unimodal. To determine 
the cortical network involved in multisensory interactions, we performed multiple
injections of different retrograde tracers in unimodal auditory (core),
somatosensory (1/3b) and visual (V2 and MT) cortical areas of the marmoset. We
found three types of heteromodal connections linking unimodal sensory areas.
Visuo-somatosensory projections were observed originating from visual areas
[probably the ventral and dorsal fundus of the superior temporal area (FSTv and
FSTd), and middle temporal crescent (MTc)] toward areas 1/3b. Somatosensory
projections to the auditory cortex were present from S2 and the anterior bank of 
the lateral sulcus. Finally, a visuo-auditory projection arises from an area
anterior to the superior temporal sulcus (STS) toward the auditory core.
Injections in different sensory regions allow us to define the frontal convexity 
and the temporal opercular caudal cortex as putative polysensory areas. A
quantitative analysis of the laminar distribution of projecting neurons showed
that heteromodal connections could be either feedback or feedforward. Taken
together, our results provide the anatomical pathway for multisensory integration
at low levels of information processing in the primate and argue against a strict
hierarchical model.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04462.x 
PMID: 16324124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

