

2606. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Dec;22(11):2886-902.

Heteromodal connections supporting multisensory integration at low levels of
cortical processing in the monkey.

Cappe C(1), Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Cerveau & Cognition, CNRS-UMR 5549 Université Paul Sabatier, Toulouse III,
Toulouse, France.

While multisensory integration is thought to occur in higher hierarchical
cortical areas, recent studies in man and monkey have revealed plurisensory
modulations of activity in areas previously thought to be unimodal. To determine 
the cortical network involved in multisensory interactions, we performed multiple
injections of different retrograde tracers in unimodal auditory (core),
somatosensory (1/3b) and visual (V2 and MT) cortical areas of the marmoset. We
found three types of heteromodal connections linking unimodal sensory areas.
Visuo-somatosensory projections were observed originating from visual areas
[probably the ventral and dorsal fundus of the superior temporal area (FSTv and
FSTd), and middle temporal crescent (MTc)] toward areas 1/3b. Somatosensory
projections to the auditory cortex were present from S2 and the anterior bank of 
the lateral sulcus. Finally, a visuo-auditory projection arises from an area
anterior to the superior temporal sulcus (STS) toward the auditory core.
Injections in different sensory regions allow us to define the frontal convexity 
and the temporal opercular caudal cortex as putative polysensory areas. A
quantitative analysis of the laminar distribution of projecting neurons showed
that heteromodal connections could be either feedback or feedforward. Taken
together, our results provide the anatomical pathway for multisensory integration
at low levels of information processing in the primate and argue against a strict
hierarchical model.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04462.x 
PMID: 16324124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2607. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Jan 10;494(2):260-74.

Synaptic connectivity in the midget-parvocellular pathway of primate central
retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053.

The synaptic connectivity of OFF midget bipolar cells was investigated in the
central retina of two primate species, the New World common marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus, and the Old World macaque monkey, Macaca fascicularis. In
marmosets, dichromatic and trichromatic animals were compared. Bipolar output
synapses were identified with antibodies against ribbon proteins (kinesin,
C-terminal binding protein 2) or with an antiserum that recognizes postsynaptic
glutamate receptor clusters (GluR4). The midget bipolar cells were identified
immunocytochemically with antibodies to CD15 (marmoset) or an antiserum to
recoverin (macaque). In marmosets, midget ganglion cells were retrogradely
labeled from the parvocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus.
Consistent with previous studies of Old World primates, in marmoset, midget
bipolar cells contacted midget ganglion cells at a ratio of 1:1. The number of
output synapses made by OFF midget bipolar cells was quantified for 104 cells in 
two dichromatic marmosets, 108 cells in one trichromatic marmoset, and 118 cells 
in one macaque. The number of output synapses was comparable for all animals,
ranging from 10-71 in the dichromatic marmoset (average 29.7 +/- 12.4 SD), 12-86 
in the trichromatic marmoset (average 28.6 +/- 11.7 SD) and 9-48 in the macaque
(average 26.5 +/- 9.3 SD) per axon terminal. In all animals the number of output 
synapses per axon terminal showed a unimodal distribution. Our results suggest
that the midget circuitry is comparable in dichromatic and trichromatic animals.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20804 
PMID: 16320234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

