

2607. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Jan 10;494(2):260-74.

Synaptic connectivity in the midget-parvocellular pathway of primate central
retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053.

The synaptic connectivity of OFF midget bipolar cells was investigated in the
central retina of two primate species, the New World common marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus, and the Old World macaque monkey, Macaca fascicularis. In
marmosets, dichromatic and trichromatic animals were compared. Bipolar output
synapses were identified with antibodies against ribbon proteins (kinesin,
C-terminal binding protein 2) or with an antiserum that recognizes postsynaptic
glutamate receptor clusters (GluR4). The midget bipolar cells were identified
immunocytochemically with antibodies to CD15 (marmoset) or an antiserum to
recoverin (macaque). In marmosets, midget ganglion cells were retrogradely
labeled from the parvocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus.
Consistent with previous studies of Old World primates, in marmoset, midget
bipolar cells contacted midget ganglion cells at a ratio of 1:1. The number of
output synapses made by OFF midget bipolar cells was quantified for 104 cells in 
two dichromatic marmosets, 108 cells in one trichromatic marmoset, and 118 cells 
in one macaque. The number of output synapses was comparable for all animals,
ranging from 10-71 in the dichromatic marmoset (average 29.7 +/- 12.4 SD), 12-86 
in the trichromatic marmoset (average 28.6 +/- 11.7 SD) and 9-48 in the macaque
(average 26.5 +/- 9.3 SD) per axon terminal. In all animals the number of output 
synapses per axon terminal showed a unimodal distribution. Our results suggest
that the midget circuitry is comparable in dichromatic and trichromatic animals.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20804 
PMID: 16320234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2608. Biol Reprod. 2006 Apr;74(4):616-24. Epub 2005 Nov 30.

The seminiferous epithelium cycle length in the black tufted-ear marmoset
(Callithrix penicillata) is similar to humans.

Leal MC(1), França LR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Biology, Department of Morphology, Institute of
Biological Sciences, Federal University of Minas Gerais, 31270-901 Belo Horizonte
MG, Brazil.

Marmosets are New World small primates phylogenetically close to humans and are
commonly used in biomedical research. Although the reproductive biology of the
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus is fairly well investigated, there are few
data available for testis function for its close relative, Callithrix
penicillata. In this regard, the present study was performed to investigate
testis structure, spermatogenic cycle length, and spermatogenic and Sertoli cell 
efficiencies in eight captive C. penicillata. These animals received
(3)H-thymidine injections and had their testes perfused-fixed with glutaraldehyde
and embedded in plastic at different time periods after (3)H-thymidine
injections, for histomorphometric and autoradiographic evaluation. The analysis
of the different germ cell associations showed that two or more stages were
observed in about 30% of the seminiferous tubule cross sections investigated. The
values found for spermatogenic cycle length and for total duration of
spermatogenesis in the marmoset C. penicillata, 15.4 and 69.3 days respectively, 
were very close to those cited in the literature for humans. However, the results
observed for Sertoli cell efficiency (number of round spermatids per Sertoli
cell; 8:1) and spermatogenic efficiency (daily sperm production per gram of
testis; 18.4 million) were substantially higher than those observed for humans.
The results found in the present investigation suggest that the black tufted-ear 
marmoset C. penicillata might represent an alternative and useful experimental
model to perform comparative studies regarding the spermatogenic process,
particularly in investigations related to the expansion of spermatogonial stem
cells and the establishment of spermatogenic waves.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.105.048074 
PMID: 16319285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

