

2609. Emerg Infect Dis. 2005 Oct;11(10):1610-3.

Oropouche virus isolation, southeast Brazil.

Nunes MR(1), Martins LC, Rodrigues SG, Chiang JO, Azevedo Rdo S, da Rosa AP,
Vasconcelos PF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Arbovirology and Hemorrhagic Fevers, Instituto Evandro Chagas,
Belém, Pará, Brazil. marcionunes@iec.pa.gov.br

An Oropouche virus strain was isolated from a novel host (Callithrix sp.) in
Arinos, Minas Gerais State, southeastern Brazil. The virus was identified by
complement fixation test and confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain 
reaction. Phylogenetic analysis identified this strain as a genotype III isolate 
previously recognized only in Panama.

DOI: 10.3201/eid1110.050464 
PMCID: PMC3366749
PMID: 16318707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2610. J Neurosci Methods. 2006 May 15;153(1):135-46. Epub 2005 Nov 28.

A modified technique for high-resolution staining of myelin.

Pistorio AL(1), Hendry SH, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, 720 Rutland Avenue, 424 Ross,
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

This report describes a new modification of the Gallyas method for staining
myelin in fixed brain tissue and compares results of multiple myelin-visualizing 
techniques in normal common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), normal macaque monkey 
(Macaca mulatta), and a human with multiple sclerosis. The new modification
involves immersion in 10% formalin following impregnation in ammoniacal silver
nitrate, and the use of a low concentration of 4% paraformaldehyde in the
developer. This improved technique is less sensitive to post-mortem tissue
handling, temperature, and minor contaminants, allowing a more straightforward
implementation in the laboratory setting. It permits simple user-controlled
development of the reaction product to maximize contrast in the area of interest,
resulting in high contrast staining not only of large axonal bundles, but also
thin fascicles throughout tissue sections. Myelin staining in visual cortex of an
Old World monkey and a New World monkey reveals similar patterns in the new
myelin silver stain, the Gallyas stain, and myelin basic protein
immunohistochemistry. The most heavily myelinated areas occupy the edges of
blobs, but neither the most lightly stained nor the most darkly stained areas are
always in our outside a blob. This indicates a more complex pattern between
myelinated axons and blobs than previously suggested. While the new myelin silver
stain, darkfield microscopy, the Luxol Fast Blue stain, the Gallyas stain, and
myelin basic protein immunohistochemistry all permit visualization of myelin in
the CNS, each technique has its own merits and pitfalls; careful evaluation of
individual study requirements would best determine which methods are the most
useful.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2005.10.014 
PMID: 16310256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

