

2610. J Neurosci Methods. 2006 May 15;153(1):135-46. Epub 2005 Nov 28.

A modified technique for high-resolution staining of myelin.

Pistorio AL(1), Hendry SH, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, 720 Rutland Avenue, 424 Ross,
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

This report describes a new modification of the Gallyas method for staining
myelin in fixed brain tissue and compares results of multiple myelin-visualizing 
techniques in normal common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), normal macaque monkey 
(Macaca mulatta), and a human with multiple sclerosis. The new modification
involves immersion in 10% formalin following impregnation in ammoniacal silver
nitrate, and the use of a low concentration of 4% paraformaldehyde in the
developer. This improved technique is less sensitive to post-mortem tissue
handling, temperature, and minor contaminants, allowing a more straightforward
implementation in the laboratory setting. It permits simple user-controlled
development of the reaction product to maximize contrast in the area of interest,
resulting in high contrast staining not only of large axonal bundles, but also
thin fascicles throughout tissue sections. Myelin staining in visual cortex of an
Old World monkey and a New World monkey reveals similar patterns in the new
myelin silver stain, the Gallyas stain, and myelin basic protein
immunohistochemistry. The most heavily myelinated areas occupy the edges of
blobs, but neither the most lightly stained nor the most darkly stained areas are
always in our outside a blob. This indicates a more complex pattern between
myelinated axons and blobs than previously suggested. While the new myelin silver
stain, darkfield microscopy, the Luxol Fast Blue stain, the Gallyas stain, and
myelin basic protein immunohistochemistry all permit visualization of myelin in
the CNS, each technique has its own merits and pitfalls; careful evaluation of
individual study requirements would best determine which methods are the most
useful.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2005.10.014 
PMID: 16310256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2611. J Med Chem. 2005 Dec 1;48(24):7808-20.

Adenosine kinase inhibitors. 6. Synthesis, water solubility, and antinociceptive 
activity of 5-phenyl-7-(5-deoxy-beta-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidines
substituted at C4 with glycinamides and related compounds.

Bookser BC(1), Ugarkar BG, Matelich MC, Lemus RH, Allan M, Tsuchiya M, Nakane M, 
Nagahisa A, Wiesner JB, Erion MD.

Author information: 
(1)Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., 9390 Towne Centre Drive, San Diego, California
92121, USA. bookser@mbasis.com

4-(Phenylamino)-5-phenyl-7-(5-deoxy-beta-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine
1 and related compounds known as "diaryltubercidin" analogues are potent
inhibitors of adenosine kinase (AK) and are orally active in animal models of
pain such as the rat formalin paw model (GP3269 ED50= 6.4 mg/kg). However, the
utility of this compound class is limited by poor water solubility that can be
attributed to the high energy of crystallization caused by stacking of the
parallel C4 and C5 aryl rings in the solid state (compound 1 and GP3269 each with
pH 7.4 solubility <0.05 microg/mL). To increase water solubility, the hydrophobic
C4-phenylamino substituent was replaced with a more hydrophilic group,
glycinamide. This modification resulted in improved water solubility while
retaining AK inhibition potency. Analogues were studied where changes in the
glycinamide moiety were combined with changes to the base and sugar. A lead
compound,
4-N-(N-cyclopropylcarbamoylmethyl)amino-5-phenyl-7-(5-deoxy-beta-D-ribofuranosyl)
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine (16c) (IC50= 3 nM and water solubility = 32 +/- 9
microg/mL at pH 7.4), was further characterized in biological assays. Compound
16c exhibited strong oral efficacy in the rat formalin paw model (ED50 of 2.5
mg/kg). In the most advanced assay, 16c was found to inhibit bradykinin-induced
licking in marmoset monkeys with an ED50 estimated at 0.9 mg/kg without producing
evidence of side effects such as ataxia, sedation, and emesis at this dose.
However, lethal toxicity in the rat formalin paw model occurred with high doses
of 16c, and further work on this series was discontinued.

DOI: 10.1021/jm050394a 
PMID: 16302820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

