

2614. J Androl. 2005 Nov-Dec;26(6):761-71.

Monoclonal antibody from vasectomized mouse identifies a conserved
testis-specific antigen TSA70.

Wakle MS(1), Joshi SA, Khole VV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gamete Immuno Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.

Vasectomy results in the occlusion of testicular outflow, leading to autoimmunity
characterized by the production of antisperm antibodies (ASA). Reports on the
rise in ASA following vasectomy in several species are available; however, not
much is known about the specific sperm autoantigens to which postvasectomy
antibodies are directed. In the present study, monoclonal antibodies were
generated using a vasectomized mouse. One of the monoclonal antibodies, D5E5,
identified an approximately 70-kd antigen localized on the principal piece of the
tail and also on the tip of the acrosome of mouse sperm. The cognate antigen was 
expressed postmeiotically in a stage-specific manner during spermiogenesis,
starting from step 8 of elongating spermatids during spermiogenesis up to mature 
spermatozoa. The protein was conserved across the species, as observed by its
presence in rat, bull, marmoset, and human sperm. Following capacitation, the
antigen on the head was seen to shift to the acrosomal region and was lost after 
the acrosome reaction. However, the localization on tip of the acrosome still
persisted, which indicates that the antigen may play a role post-acrosome
reaction in sperm egg interaction. Resistance to Triton X-100 solubilization
indicates that TSA70 could be an acrosomal matrix protein. In addition, we
observed a significant reduction in forward progressive motility of mouse sperm
treated in vitro with D5E5. In view of its testis specificity, acrosome and tail 
localization, and conserved nature, TSA70 is likely to play an important role in 
sperm function.

DOI: 10.2164/jandrol.05045 
PMID: 16291972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2615. Methods Mol Med. 2006;121:111-21.

The common marmoset monkey as a model for implantation and early pregnancy
research.

Einspanier A(1), Lieder K, Einspanier R, Husen B.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Facility of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Leipzig, Germany.

This chapter describes methods used to investigate implantation in the common
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus. A reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain
reaction-strategy with which to detect transcripts for steroid receptors and
enzymes involved in estradiol biosynthesis is described, and an
immunohistochemistry approach for detecting proteins within the implantation site
is presented.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-983-4:109 
PMID: 16251739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

