

2615. Methods Mol Med. 2006;121:111-21.

The common marmoset monkey as a model for implantation and early pregnancy
research.

Einspanier A(1), Lieder K, Einspanier R, Husen B.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Facility of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Leipzig, Germany.

This chapter describes methods used to investigate implantation in the common
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus. A reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain
reaction-strategy with which to detect transcripts for steroid receptors and
enzymes involved in estradiol biosynthesis is described, and an
immunohistochemistry approach for detecting proteins within the implantation site
is presented.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-983-4:109 
PMID: 16251739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2616. Behav Processes. 2006 Jan 10;71(1):66-9. Epub 2005 Oct 24.

Rapid habituation of scan behavior in captive marmosets following brief predator 
encounters.

Dacier A(1), Maia R, Agustinho DP, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Centre and Laboratory of Neuroscience and Behavior, University of
Brasilia, Brazil.

Scan behavior in 10 captive predator-naive adult black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix penicillata) was investigated prior, during and following brief
predator encounters (taxidermized oncilla cat -- Leopardus tigrinus) versus
neutral stimulus exposures (stuffed toy). For each stimulus, three 9 min
home-cage trials were conducted > or = 72 h apart. Each trial was divided into
three consecutive 3 min intervals: pre-exposure baseline observation, stimulus
exposure, and post-exposure observation period. Post-exposure scan duration
increased during the first two predator confrontations, while scan frequency
increased significantly only after the first. Scan behavior remained constant
within the last predator encounter, as it also did within and between the three
neutral stimulus exposures. Although marmosets scanned more often and
significantly longer after encountering the predator than the neutral stimulus,
this response rapidly habituated by the second trial. Therefore, black tufted-ear
marmosets in a familiar environment rapidly habituate to brief repeated predator 
encounters, possibly minimizing anti-predation costs once the degree of a
potential threat has been adequately assessed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2005.09.006 
PMID: 16246505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

