

2617. Curr Biol. 2005 Oct 25;15(20):1855-60.

Will travel for food: spatial discounting in two new world monkeys.

Stevens JR(1), Rosati AG, Ross KR, Hauser MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, 
USA. jstevens@wjh.harvard.edu

Nonhuman animals steeply discount the future, showing a preference for small,
immediate over large, delayed rewards. Currently unclear is whether discounting
functions depend on context. Here, we examine the effects of spatial context on
discounting in cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) and common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), species known to differ in temporal discounting. We
presented subjects with a choice between small, nearby rewards and large, distant
rewards. Tamarins traveled farther for the large reward than marmosets, attending
to the ratio of reward differences rather than their absolute values. This
species difference contrasts with performance on a temporal task in which
marmosets waited longer than tamarins for the large reward. These comparative
data indicate that context influences choice behavior, with the strongest effect 
seen in marmosets who discounted more steeply over space than over time. These
findings parallel details of each species' feeding ecology. Tamarins range over
large distances and feed primarily on insects, which requires using quick,
impulsive action. Marmosets range over shorter distances than tamarins and feed
primarily on tree exudates, a clumped resource that requires patience to wait for
sap to exude. These results show that discounting functions are context specific,
shaped by a history of ecological pressures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2005.09.016 
PMCID: PMC8049090
PMID: 16243033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2618. Angiogenesis. 2005;8(2):101-16. Epub 2005 Oct 21.

Vascular morphogenesis in the primate ovary.

Fraser HM(1), Duncan WC.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology,
Edinburgh, UK. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Ovarian function is dependent on intense cyclical vascular morphogenesis and
regression. The molecular and cellular pathways involved in the generation of new
capillary networks in the ovary are now being elucidated. Focussing on the
marmoset, the course of angiogenesis at different stages of follicular maturation
and in the corpus luteum throughout the cycle and in early pregnancy have been
quantified and major progress has been made in the evaluation of the role of
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). To study the physiological role of
VEGF in follicular and luteal angiogenesis in detail, VEGF was inhibited during
defined stages of the cycle in vivo. VEGF antagonist administered throughout the 
follicular phase of the cycle resulted in a marked decrease in endothelial cell
proliferation in developing antral follicles, accompanied by a decline in
granulosa cell proliferation, restriction of follicular growth and inhibition of 
ovulation. An outstanding feature in the ovary is the intense angiogenesis that
occurs during the early luteal phase. VEGF inhibitors markedly suppressed this
angiogenesis, resulting in a marked restriction in the development of the
microvascular tree and suppression of plasma progesterone. These studies showed
that VEGF is essential for normal follicular and luteal angiogenesis and
function, and demonstrated how luteal angiogenesis in particular could serve as a
sensitive bioassay for putative angiogenic antagonists. Antagonists of VEGF are
potent tools for investigating the role of angiogenic factors within the ovary
and may have applications to the treatment of reproductive disorders
characterised by alterations in normal vascular structure or function.

DOI: 10.1007/s10456-005-9004-y 
PMID: 16240058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

