

2620. Vis Neurosci. 2005 Jul-Aug;22(4):479-91.

Spatial coding and response redundancy in parallel visual pathways of the
marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Forte JD(1), Hashemi-Nezhad M, Dobbie WJ, Dreher B, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Cnr Keppel & Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, and the Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, The
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Australia.

Many neurons in the primary visual cortex (area V1) show pronounced selectivity
for the orientation and spatial frequency of visual stimuli, whereas most neurons
in subcortical afferent streams show little selectivity for these stimulus
attributes. It has been suggested that this transformation is a functional sign
of increased coding efficiency, whereby the redundancy (or overlap in response
properties) is reduced at consecutive levels of visual processing. Here we
compared experimentally the response redundancy in area V1 with that in the three
main dorsal thalamic afferent streams, the parvocellular (PC), koniocellular
(KC), and magnocellular (MC) divisions of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus
(LGN) in marmosets. The spatial frequency and orientation tuning of single cells 
in the LGN and area V1 were measured, using luminance contrast sine-wave
gratings. A joint spatial frequency-orientation response selectivity profile was 
calculated for each cell. Response redundancy for each population was estimated
by cross-multiplication of the joint selectivity profiles for pairs of cells. We 
show that when estimated in this way, redundancy in LGN neurons is approximately 
double that of neurons in cortical area V1. However, there are differences
between LGN subdivisions, such that the KC pathway has a spatial representation
that lies between the redundant code of the PC and MC pathways and the more
efficient sparse spatial code of area V1.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523805224094 
PMID: 16212705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2621. Vis Neurosci. 2005 Jul-Aug;22(4):395-404.

Mosaic properties of midget and parasol ganglion cells in the marmoset retina.

Szmajda BA(1), Gr√ºnert U, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, and the Department
of Optometry and Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Australia.

We measured mosaic properties of midget and parasol ganglion cells in the retina 
of a New World monkey, the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus . We addressed the 
functional specialization of these populations for color and spatial vision, by
comparing the mosaic of ganglion cells in dichromatic ("red-green color blind")
and trichromatic marmosets. Ganglion cells were labelled by photolytic
amplification of retrograde marker ("photofilling") following injections into the
lateral geniculate nucleus, or by intracellular injection in an in vitro retinal 
preparation. The dendritic-field size, shape, and overlap of neighboring cells
were measured. We show that in marmosets, both midget and parasol cells exhibit a
radial bias, so that the long axis of the dendritic field points towards the
fovea. The radial bias is similar for parasol cells and midget cells, despite the
fact that midget cell dendritic fields are more elongated than are those of
parasol cells. The dendritic fields of midget ganglion cells from the same (ON or
OFF) response-type array show very little overlap, consistent with the low
coverage of the midget mosaic in humans. No large differences in radial bias, or 
overlap, were seen on comparing retinae from dichromatic and trichromatic
animals. These data suggest that radial bias in ganglion cell populations is a
consistent feature of the primate retina. Furthermore, they suggest that the
mosaic properties of the midget cell population are associated with high spatial 
resolution rather than being specifically associated with trichromatic color
vision.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523805224021 
PMID: 16212698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

