

2623. IEEE Trans Neural Syst Rehabil Eng. 2005 Sep;13(3):263-71.

Wireless multichannel biopotential recording using an integrated FM telemetry
circuit.

Mohseni P(1), Najafi K, Eliades SJ, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Wireless Integrated MicroSystems (WIMS), Department of Electrical
Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122, USA.
pmohseni@umich.edu

This paper presents a four-channel telemetric microsystem featuring on-chip
alternating current amplification, direct current baseline stabilization, clock
generation, time-division multiplexing, and wireless frequency-modulation
transmission of microvolt- and millivolt-range input biopotentials in the very
high frequency band of 94-98 MHz over a distance of approximately 0.5 m. It
consists of a 4.84-mm2 integrated circuit, fabricated using a 1.5-microm
double-poly double-metal n-well standard complementary metal-oxide semiconductor 
process, interfaced with only three off-chip components on a custom-designed
printed-circuit board that measures 1.7 x 1.2 x 0.16 cm3, and weighs 1.1 g
including two miniature 1.5-V batteries. We characterize the microsystem
performance, operating in a truly wireless fashion in single-channel and
multichannel operation modes, via extensive benchtop and in vitro tests in saline
utilizing two different micromachined neural recording microelectrodes, while
dissipating approximately 2.2 mW from a 3-V power supply. Moreover, we
demonstrate successful wireless in vivo recording of spontaneous neural activity 
at 96.2 MHz from the auditory cortex of an awake marmoset monkey at several
transmission distances ranging from 10 to 50 cm with signal-to-noise ratios in
the range of 8.4-9.5 dB.

DOI: 10.1109/TNSRE.2005.853625 
PMID: 16200750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2624. Behav Brain Res. 2006 Jan 30;166(2):253-62. Epub 2005 Sep 27.

Neglect of memory after dopaminergic lesions in monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Cummings RM, Leow-Dyke A, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Crossed unilateral dopaminergic lesions of the nigrostriatal bundle and
unilateral inferotemporal cortex ablations (DA x IT lesions) in marmoset monkeys 
produced impaired retention of object discriminations first learnt before, or
after, the DA lesion but no impairment on new learning of the same type of task. 
Retention testing of a pre-operatively learned task was given after new learning 
of a different task so impairment cannot be attributed to improvement with
practice or spontaneous recovery. We argue that the DA lesion produces a form of 
intentional neglect, a defect of volition, which is the mnemonic counterpart of
the volitional neglect of directional hypokinesia, which animals with this lesion
also exhibit. The DA lesion was unilateral (for welfare reasons) so the
information to be retrieved had to be confined to that hemisphere by the use of
an IT ablation in the other hemisphere. Unilateral DA lesion compromises the
competence of ipsilateral fronto-striatal interactions and our results parallel
those found in monkeys with crossed IT x frontal lesions that are impaired on
complex tasks requiring effortful implementation of a cognitive strategy but are 
not impaired on discrimination learning. Parkinsonian patients with sub-total but
bilateral DA loss may lack 'top-down' conative mechanisms as well as 'top-down'
movement initiation mechanisms. They may fail to initiate retrieval strategies,
although they may not exhibit retrograde amnesia under test conditions that
provoke retrieval. Failure to self-initiate retrieval of relevant knowledge may
contribute to the paucity of cognitive style and loss of executive skills
exhibited by some patients with Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2005.08.007 
PMID: 16198007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

