

2626. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Sep;22(6):1305-18.

Unilateral pallidotomy in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated
common marmosets exhibiting levodopa-induced dyskinesia.

Iravani MM(1), Costa S, Al-Bargouthy G, Jackson MJ, Zeng BY, Kuoppam√§ki M, Obeso 
JA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College London, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Pallidotomy paradoxically reduces the intensity of levodopa-induced dyskinesia
without worsening motor symptoms. The reasons for this are not clear and no
experimental study has investigated this phenomenon. The objective of this
investigation was to evaluate the effects of unilateral pallidotomy on locomotor 
activity, motor disability and levodopa-induced dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated levodopa-primed common
marmosets. Animals were primed to exhibit dyskinesia by daily administration of
levodopa until stable dyskinesia was evoked by each dose. Locomotor activity,
motor disability and dyskinesia were assessed weekly at baseline and following an
acute levodopa challenge. Prior to pallidotomies, two distinct groups of animals 
emerged: poor responders to levodopa with mild dyskinesia (Group 1) and those
exhibiting a marked increase in motor activity and pronounced dyskinesia (Group
2). Electrolytic lesions were placed in the left internal segment of the globus
pallidus. Pallidotomy had no effect on basal or levodopa-induced motor activity
in either group but significantly improved basal motor disability in Group 2.
Following pallidotomy, the ability of levodopa to reduce motor disability was
significantly increased in both groups. Pallidotomy improved dyskinesia in both
Groups 1 and 2 but it was more effective in reducing dystonia compared with
chorea. The effect of pallidotomy on dyskinesia in Group 2 was transient, with
the intensity of involuntary movements reverting to presurgery levels 4 weeks
later. This study shows that in levodopa-primed, parkinsonian marmosets,
placement of discrete globus pallidus lesions can ameliorate levodopa-induced
dyskinesia but not akinesia. This model allows the evaluation of
pallidotomy-induced biochemical changes in dyskinetic primates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04308.x 
PMID: 16190886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2627. J Med Chem. 2005 Oct 6;48(20):6430-41.

Adenosine kinase inhibitors. 5. Synthesis, enzyme inhibition, and analgesic
activity of diaryl-erythro-furanosyltubercidin analogues.

Boyer SH(1), Ugarkar BG, Solbach J, Kopcho J, Matelich MC, Ollis K, Gomez-Galeno 
JE, Mendonca R, Tsuchiya M, Nagahisa A, Nakane M, Wiesner JB, Erion MD.

Author information: 
(1)Metabasis Therapeutics Inc., 9390 Towne Centre Drive, San Diego, California
92121, USA. boyer@mbasis.com

Adenosine is an endogenous neuromodulator that when produced in the central and
the peripheral nervous systems has anticonvulsant, anti-inflammatory, and
analgesic properties. However, efforts to use adenosine receptor agonists are
plagued by dose-limiting cardiovascular side effects. As an alternative, we
explored the use of adenosine kinase inhibitors (AKIs) as potential antiseizure
agents and demonstrated an adenosine receptor mediated therapeutic effect in the 
absence of overt cardiovascular side effects. These activities were associated
with elevation of extracellular adenosine concentrations due to inhibition of AK 
in a site and event specific manner. Several tubercidin based AKIs, including the
ribo- and lyxo-furanosyltubercidin analogues as well as the newly discovered
erythro-furanosyltubercidin analogues, designed to prevent 5'-O-phosphorylation
and associated toxicities, were tested for their analgesic activity in the rat
formalin paw model. Described herein are the synthesis, enzyme inhibition
structure-activity relationships (SARs) of erythro-furanosyltubercidin analogues,
and SARs of analgesic activity of various classes of AKIs. Also reported is the
characterization of a lead AKI, 19d (GP3966), an orally bioavailable compound (F%
= 60% in dog) which exhibits broad-spectrum analgesic activities (ED50 < or = 4
mg/kg, per os) that are reversible with an adenosine receptor antagonist
(theophylline).

DOI: 10.1021/jm0503650 
PMID: 16190769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

