

2631. Perception. 2005;34(8):967-74.

A continuous smooth map of space in the primary visual cortex of the common
marmoset.

McLoughlin N(1), Cotton P, Schiessl I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Neuroscience, University of Manchester Institute
of Science and Technology, PO Box 88, Manchester M60 1QD, UK.
n.mcloughlin@umist.ac.uk

We examined the fine-scale mapping of the visual world within the primary visual 
cortex of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) using differential optical
imaging. We stimulated two sets of complementary stripe-like locations in turn,
subtracting them to generate the cortical representations of continuous bands of 
visual space. Rotating this stimulus configuration makes it possible to map
different spatial axes within the primary visual cortex. In a similar manner,
shifting the stimulated locations between trials makes it possible to map
retinotopy at an even finer scale. Using these methods we found no evidence of
any local anisotropies or distortions in the cortical representation of visual
space. This is despite the fact that orientation preference is mapped in a
discontinuous manner across the surface of marmoset V1. Overall, our results
indicate that space is mapped in a continuous and smooth manner in the primary
visual cortex of the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1068/p5198 
PMID: 16178151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2632. J Immunol. 2005 Oct 1;175(7):4761-8.

Suppression of ongoing disease in a nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis 
by a human-anti-human IL-12p40 antibody.

't Hart BA(1), Brok HP, Remarque E, Benson J, Treacy G, Amor S, Hintzen RQ, Laman
JD, Bauer J, Blezer EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Center, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

IL-12p40 is a shared subunit of two cytokines with overlapping activities in the 
induction of autoreactive Th1 cells and therefore a potential target of therapy
in Th1-mediated diseases. We have examined whether ongoing disease in a nonhuman 
primate model of multiple sclerosis (MS) can be suppressed with a new human
IgG1kappa Ab against human IL-12p40. Lesions developing in the brain white matter
were visualized and characterized with standard magnetic resonance imaging
techniques. To reflect the treatment of MS patients, treatment with the Ab was
initiated after active brain white matter lesions were detected in T2-weighted
images. In placebo-treated control monkeys we observed the expected progressive
increase in the total T2 lesion volume and markedly increased T2 relaxation
times, a magnetic resonance imaging marker of inflammation. In contrast, in
monkeys treated with anti-IL-12p40 Ab, changes in the total T2 lesion volume and 
T2 relaxation times were significantly suppressed. Moreover, the time interval to
serious neurological deficit was delayed from 31 +/- 10 to 64 +/- 20 days (odds
ratio, 0.312). These results, in a disease model with high similarity to MS, are 
important for ongoing and planned trials of therapies that target IL-12 and/or
IL-23.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.175.7.4761 
PMID: 16177124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

