

2632. J Immunol. 2005 Oct 1;175(7):4761-8.

Suppression of ongoing disease in a nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis 
by a human-anti-human IL-12p40 antibody.

't Hart BA(1), Brok HP, Remarque E, Benson J, Treacy G, Amor S, Hintzen RQ, Laman
JD, Bauer J, Blezer EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Center, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

IL-12p40 is a shared subunit of two cytokines with overlapping activities in the 
induction of autoreactive Th1 cells and therefore a potential target of therapy
in Th1-mediated diseases. We have examined whether ongoing disease in a nonhuman 
primate model of multiple sclerosis (MS) can be suppressed with a new human
IgG1kappa Ab against human IL-12p40. Lesions developing in the brain white matter
were visualized and characterized with standard magnetic resonance imaging
techniques. To reflect the treatment of MS patients, treatment with the Ab was
initiated after active brain white matter lesions were detected in T2-weighted
images. In placebo-treated control monkeys we observed the expected progressive
increase in the total T2 lesion volume and markedly increased T2 relaxation
times, a magnetic resonance imaging marker of inflammation. In contrast, in
monkeys treated with anti-IL-12p40 Ab, changes in the total T2 lesion volume and 
T2 relaxation times were significantly suppressed. Moreover, the time interval to
serious neurological deficit was delayed from 31 +/- 10 to 64 +/- 20 days (odds
ratio, 0.312). These results, in a disease model with high similarity to MS, are 
important for ongoing and planned trials of therapies that target IL-12 and/or
IL-23.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.175.7.4761 
PMID: 16177124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2633. J Psychopharmacol. 2005 Sep;19(5):455-66.

A long-term study of the effects of diazinon on sleep, the electrocorticogram and
cognitive behaviour in common marmosets.

Muggleton NG(1), Smith AJ, Scott EA, Wilson SJ, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Psychopharmacology Unit, University of Bristol, School of Medical Sciences,
University Walk, Bristol BS8 1TD, UK. n.muggleton@ucl.ac.uk

The long-term sequelae of exposure to low doses of organophosphate compounds are 
ill defined, with effects variously reported on a range of indices of central
nervous system functions such as sleep, cognitive performance and
electroencephalogram (EEG). These indices were examined in common marmosets
exposed to a range of doses of the organophosphorous sheep dip, diazinon.
Cognitive performance was assessed by means of elements from the Cambridge
Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB), and radiotelemetry techniques
were employed to monitor the electrocorticogram and sleep patterns. Data were
collected for 12 months following intramuscular administration of a single dose
of diazinon (10, 90 or 130 mg.kg (-1)) or vehicle. Although high levels of
erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition (up to 82%) and short-term
changes in sleep patterns were seen, there was no evidence of biologically
significant long-term changes in any measures. The effects of multiple exposures,
impurities or mixtures of OP compounds remain to be investigated.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881105056521 
PMID: 16166182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

