

2633. J Psychopharmacol. 2005 Sep;19(5):455-66.

A long-term study of the effects of diazinon on sleep, the electrocorticogram and
cognitive behaviour in common marmosets.

Muggleton NG(1), Smith AJ, Scott EA, Wilson SJ, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Psychopharmacology Unit, University of Bristol, School of Medical Sciences,
University Walk, Bristol BS8 1TD, UK. n.muggleton@ucl.ac.uk

The long-term sequelae of exposure to low doses of organophosphate compounds are 
ill defined, with effects variously reported on a range of indices of central
nervous system functions such as sleep, cognitive performance and
electroencephalogram (EEG). These indices were examined in common marmosets
exposed to a range of doses of the organophosphorous sheep dip, diazinon.
Cognitive performance was assessed by means of elements from the Cambridge
Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB), and radiotelemetry techniques
were employed to monitor the electrocorticogram and sleep patterns. Data were
collected for 12 months following intramuscular administration of a single dose
of diazinon (10, 90 or 130 mg.kg (-1)) or vehicle. Although high levels of
erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition (up to 82%) and short-term
changes in sleep patterns were seen, there was no evidence of biologically
significant long-term changes in any measures. The effects of multiple exposures,
impurities or mixtures of OP compounds remain to be investigated.

DOI: 10.1177/0269881105056521 
PMID: 16166182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2634. Cell Immunol. 2005 Jul-Aug;236(1-2):115-22. Epub 2005 Sep 12.

Cross-reactivity of anti-human chemokine receptor and anti-TNF family antibodies 
with common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) leukocytes.

Kireta S(1), Zola H, Gilchrist RB, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Immunology Laboratory and Department of Medicine, University
of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Campus, 28 Woodville Rd, Adelaide, SA
5011, Australia.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate species
frequently employed for immunological models of human disease. We used flow
cytometry to screen a panel of new anti-human antibodies from the HLDA8 workshop 
to establish cross-reactivity with marmoset peripheral blood mononuclear cells.
Seventy-seven antibodies were screened of which nine antibodies showed binding.
Cross-reactivity of anti-human monoclonal antibodies with CC and CXC chemokine
receptors CCR3, CCR6, CCR7, and CCR8 was demonstrated on untreated marmoset
mononuclear cells. Stimulation of marmoset mononuclear cells with ConA and/or
PMA-ionomycin resulted in an up-regulated expression of CXCR1, CXCR3, and CXCR4. 
The expression of TNF-family related molecules TACI and APRIL on marmoset
mononuclear cells was also identified. These studies extend the range of
cross-reactive antibodies to now include anti-chemokine and anti-TNF family
antibodies for this important pre-clinical model species and should provide
useful tools for investigation of immunological processes in marmoset monkey
models.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2005.08.017 
PMID: 16165115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

