

2636. J Med Chem. 2005 Sep 22;48(19):5921-31.

Development of human calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists.
1. Potent and selective small molecule CGRP antagonists.
1-[N2-[3,5-dibromo-N-[[4-(3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-oxoquinazolin-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]car
bonyl]-D-tyrosyl]-l-lysyl]-4-(4-pyridinyl)piperazine: the first CGRP antagonist
for clinical trials in acute migraine.

Rudolf K(1), Eberlein W, Engel W, Pieper H, Entzeroth M, Hallermayer G, Doods H.

Author information: 
(1)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Research Division, Birkendorfer
Strasse 65, 88397 Biberach/RISS, Germany.
klaus.rudolf@bc.boehringer-ingelheim.com

Although the triptans have greatly improved the acute treatment of migraine
headache, there are yet many shortcomings. Therefore, new strategies for the
treatment of migraine are needed which offer advantages over current therapy,
e.g. triptans. Our novel approach was based on the hypothesis that the release of
calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) could play a causative role in migraine
headache. Thus we initiated a program aimed at the design and synthesis of small 
molecule CGRP receptor antagonists. High throughput screening led to the
identification of (R)-Tyr-(S)-Lys dipeptide-like compounds that showed weak but
unequivocal binding to the human CGRP receptor. Lead optimization afforded highly
potent CGRP antagonists, the prototype being compound 19 (BIBN4096). This
compound exhibiting a favorable biological profile was selected for initial
clinical trials. A proof of concept study indicated that intravenous application 
of 19 was effective in the treatment of acute migraine headache. This finding
strongly supports our initial working hypothesis that CGRP plays an important
role in the pathophysiology of migraine.

DOI: 10.1021/jm0490641 
PMID: 16161996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2637. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Jul;16(7):929-40. Epub 2005 Sep 8.

Activity-dependent expression of occ1 in excitatory neurons is a characteristic
feature of the primate visual cortex.

Takahata T(1), Komatsu Y, Watakabe A, Hashikawa T, Tochitani S, Yamamori T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, Aichi
444-8585, Japan.

occ1 is a gene whose expression is particularly abundant in neurons in the
macaque primary visual cortex (V1). In the present study, we report that the
expression of occ1 mRNA in the macaque neocortex can be classified into two
modes. The first mode is associated with excitatory neurons distributed in the
major thalamocortical recipient layers that exhibit strong cytochrome oxidase
activity. This is highly prominent in V1. The second mode is associated with
parvalbumin-positive GABAergic interneurons and is distributed across the macaque
neocortex. In V1, monocular deprivation showed that occ1 mRNA expression in
excitatory neurons was markedly dependent on afferent activity, whereas that in
GABAergic interneurons was not. Cross-species comparison showed specific
differences in expression. In marmosets, a strong expression was observed in V1
similarly to macaques. The occ1 mRNA expression, however, was generally weak in
the mouse neocortex. In rabbit and ferret cortices, the strong expression was
observed only in GABAergic interneurons. We conclude that activity-dependent occ1
mRNA expression in the excitatory neurons of V1 was caused by a novel mechanism
acquired by primates after their separation from other lineages.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhj034 
PMID: 16151175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

