

2637. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Jul;16(7):929-40. Epub 2005 Sep 8.

Activity-dependent expression of occ1 in excitatory neurons is a characteristic
feature of the primate visual cortex.

Takahata T(1), Komatsu Y, Watakabe A, Hashikawa T, Tochitani S, Yamamori T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, Aichi
444-8585, Japan.

occ1 is a gene whose expression is particularly abundant in neurons in the
macaque primary visual cortex (V1). In the present study, we report that the
expression of occ1 mRNA in the macaque neocortex can be classified into two
modes. The first mode is associated with excitatory neurons distributed in the
major thalamocortical recipient layers that exhibit strong cytochrome oxidase
activity. This is highly prominent in V1. The second mode is associated with
parvalbumin-positive GABAergic interneurons and is distributed across the macaque
neocortex. In V1, monocular deprivation showed that occ1 mRNA expression in
excitatory neurons was markedly dependent on afferent activity, whereas that in
GABAergic interneurons was not. Cross-species comparison showed specific
differences in expression. In marmosets, a strong expression was observed in V1
similarly to macaques. The occ1 mRNA expression, however, was generally weak in
the mouse neocortex. In rabbit and ferret cortices, the strong expression was
observed only in GABAergic interneurons. We conclude that activity-dependent occ1
mRNA expression in the excitatory neurons of V1 was caused by a novel mechanism
acquired by primates after their separation from other lineages.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhj034 
PMID: 16151175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2638. Brain. 2005 Nov;128(Pt 11):2713-21. Epub 2005 Sep 8.

Demyelinated neocortical lesions in marmoset autoimmune encephalomyelitis mimic
those in multiple sclerosis.

Pomeroy IM(1), Matthews PM, Frank JA, Jordan EK, Esiri MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK.
ian.pomeroy@clneuro.ox.ac.uk

The use of immunohistochemical methods has led to a new understanding of the
prevalence and significance of cortical lesions in multiple sclerosis but these
lesions have not yet been formally described in an animal model. In this study we
have set out to use immunohistochemical techniques to identify and describe
cortical lesions in marmosets with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
(EAE). Using antibodies to proteolipid protein (PLP), we found a total of 70
cortical lesions in 11 tissue blocks from 6 animals. These lesions were
subdivided into leucocortical (40), intracortical (12) and subpial lesions (18). 
We quantified the density of inflammatory cells within lesions using a double
labelling protocol which employed anti-PLP in addition to antibodies against
markers of B-lymphocytes (CD20), T-lymphocytes (CD3), macrophages (MAC387) and
MHC-II expressing cells (CR3/43). This analysis revealed that the large subpial
lesions accounted for the majority of demyelinated cortex (88%) despite
possessing the lowest density of inflammatory cells. This study has shown that
lesions in this model share many of the major features of cortical lesions in
multiple sclerosis both in terms of morphology and inflammatory cell content. We 
believe that this tool can be exploited in future studies to investigate the
aetiology, development and clinical significance of cortical lesions in
demyelinating disease.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awh626 
PMID: 16150849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

