

2641. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2006 Jan;192(1):27-38.
Epub 2005 Aug 31.

Sensory-motor interactions modulate a primate vocal behavior: antiphonal calling 
in common marmosets.

Miller CT(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
ctmiller@bme.jhu.edu

A fundamental issue in neuroscience pertains to how different cortical systems
interact to generate behavior. One of the most direct ways to address this issue 
is to investigate how sensory information is encoded and used to produce a motor 
response. Antiphonal calling is a natural vocal behavior that involves
individuals producing their species-specific long distance vocalization in
response to hearing the same call and engages both the auditory and motor
systems, as well as the cognitive neural systems involved in decision making and 
categorization. Here we present results from a series of behavioral experiments
investigating the auditory-vocal interactions during antiphonal calling in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We manipulated sensory input by placing
subjects in different social contexts and found that the auditory input had a
significant effect on call timing and propensity to call. Playback experiments
tested the significance of the timing of vocal production in antiphonal calling
and showed that a short latency between antiphonal calls was necessary to
maintain reciprocal vocal interactions. Overall, this study shows that
sensory-motor interactions can be experimentally induced and manipulated in a
natural primate vocal behavior. Antiphonal calling represents a promising model
system to examine these issues in non-human primates at both the behavioral and
neural levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-005-0043-z 
PMID: 16133500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2642. Int J Androl. 1997 Oct;20(5):287-96.

CASA as an aid to selecting sperm suspensions for artificial insemination in
Callithrix jacchus.

Morrell JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The ability to use sperm motility parameters, obtained by computer-assisted sperm
motility analysis (CASA), as an aid to selecting sperm samples for artificial
insemination (AI) would have considerable benefits for commercial organizations
and for the captive breeding of endangered species. In this study the Hobson
sperm tracker (HST) was validated for use with spermatozoa from Callithrix
jacchus, the common marmoset, by comparing values for straight line velocity by
CASA with those obtained by direct measurement of sperm tracks. Using the
settings established during validation, ejaculated and epididymal spermatozoa
were analysed with the HST. The range of values for velocity parameters were used
to establish expected motility profiles for the two types of spermatozoa as
follows: for epididymal spermatozoa (concentration 2.2 - 85.8 x 10(6)
spermatozoa/mL) VCL 109.8-155.9, VSL 75.2-141.5, VAP 85.8-142.1, MAD 13.7-40.7,
ALH 3.8-7.8, BCF 1.4-4.2, LIN 40.5-91.1% and STR 70.1-97.1%; for ejaculated
spermatozoa (concentration 3.2-82.0 x 10(6) spermatozoa/mL) VCL 89.6-136.7, VSL
69.6-110.3, VAP 74.5-121.9, MAD 19.2-29.3, ALH 3.0-9.9, BCF 2.8-5.5., LIN
65.4-85.3% and STR 93.8-97.7%. Epididymal spermatozoa from males which were not
sexually active had significantly lower values for VCL, VSL and VAP, while values
for MAD were significantly higher than for spermatozoa from sexually active males
(p < 0.031). Sperm concentration affected motility parameters significantly.
Although motility parameters differed according to the batch of medium used, the 
differences were not statistically significant. Epididymal sperm samples had
significantly higher VCL, VSL and VAP but lower BCF and LIN than ejaculated sperm
samples of the same concentration diluted in the same batch of medium, while MAD,
ALH and STR were not different. Urine contamination significantly reduced VCL,
VSL and VAP (p < 0.008, < 0.016 and < 0.008, respectively, sample size = 7)
whereas MAD, ALH, BCF, LIN and STR were not affected. Therefore CASA could be
useful in screening ejaculates for use in Al to eliminate samples with unusual
motility patterns.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2605.1997.00072.x 
PMID: 16130273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

