

2642. Int J Androl. 1997 Oct;20(5):287-96.

CASA as an aid to selecting sperm suspensions for artificial insemination in
Callithrix jacchus.

Morrell JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The ability to use sperm motility parameters, obtained by computer-assisted sperm
motility analysis (CASA), as an aid to selecting sperm samples for artificial
insemination (AI) would have considerable benefits for commercial organizations
and for the captive breeding of endangered species. In this study the Hobson
sperm tracker (HST) was validated for use with spermatozoa from Callithrix
jacchus, the common marmoset, by comparing values for straight line velocity by
CASA with those obtained by direct measurement of sperm tracks. Using the
settings established during validation, ejaculated and epididymal spermatozoa
were analysed with the HST. The range of values for velocity parameters were used
to establish expected motility profiles for the two types of spermatozoa as
follows: for epididymal spermatozoa (concentration 2.2 - 85.8 x 10(6)
spermatozoa/mL) VCL 109.8-155.9, VSL 75.2-141.5, VAP 85.8-142.1, MAD 13.7-40.7,
ALH 3.8-7.8, BCF 1.4-4.2, LIN 40.5-91.1% and STR 70.1-97.1%; for ejaculated
spermatozoa (concentration 3.2-82.0 x 10(6) spermatozoa/mL) VCL 89.6-136.7, VSL
69.6-110.3, VAP 74.5-121.9, MAD 19.2-29.3, ALH 3.0-9.9, BCF 2.8-5.5., LIN
65.4-85.3% and STR 93.8-97.7%. Epididymal spermatozoa from males which were not
sexually active had significantly lower values for VCL, VSL and VAP, while values
for MAD were significantly higher than for spermatozoa from sexually active males
(p < 0.031). Sperm concentration affected motility parameters significantly.
Although motility parameters differed according to the batch of medium used, the 
differences were not statistically significant. Epididymal sperm samples had
significantly higher VCL, VSL and VAP but lower BCF and LIN than ejaculated sperm
samples of the same concentration diluted in the same batch of medium, while MAD,
ALH and STR were not different. Urine contamination significantly reduced VCL,
VSL and VAP (p < 0.008, < 0.016 and < 0.008, respectively, sample size = 7)
whereas MAD, ALH, BCF, LIN and STR were not affected. Therefore CASA could be
useful in screening ejaculates for use in Al to eliminate samples with unusual
motility patterns.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2605.1997.00072.x 
PMID: 16130273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2643. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Oct 3;490(4):335-53.

Species differences in tachykinin receptor distribution: further evidence that
the substance P (NK1) receptor predominates in human brain.

Rigby M(1), O'Donnell R, Rupniak NM.

Author information: 
(1)In Vivo Neuroscience, Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories, Neuroscience 
Research Centre, Terlings Park, Harlow, Essex CM20 2QR, United Kingdom.
Michael_Rigby@Merck.com

Marked species differences in the distribution of central tachykinin receptors
are reported but uncertainty remains about the ability of available ligands to
detect NK2 and NK3 receptors in human brain. We compared the distribution of NK1,
NK2, and NK3 receptors in sections from rodent, primate, and human brain using
the 125I-labeled ligands substance P (SP) for the NK1 receptor, neurokinin A
(NKA) for the NK2 receptor, and neurokinin B (NKB) and eledoisin for NK3
receptors. Duration of exposure to autoradiographic film was from 7 days for
[125I]SP up to 90 days for the other ligands. High levels of specific [125I]SP
binding were seen throughout the brains of all species studied. Specific
[125I]NKA binding was detected in brains from neonatal rat, and to a lesser level
in adult rat, gerbil, and guinea pig; it was not detected in monkey or human
brain, but was present in circular muscle of human duodenum, confirming that this
ligand binds to human NK2 receptors under our experimental conditions. Specific
[125I]NKB and [125I]eledoisin binding was widespread in brain sections from rats,
gerbils, and guinea pigs, and very low levels were also detected in marmoset,
squirrel monkey, and rhesus monkey brain after prolonged (up to 90 days)
exposure. We failed to identify specific eledoisin binding in human brain, even
after prolonged exposures. These findings demonstrate that the NK1 receptor is
the predominant tachykinin receptor expressed in primate and human brain, but
that low levels of NK3 receptor are present in nonhuman, primate brain.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20664 
PMID: 16127708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

