

2643. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Oct 3;490(4):335-53.

Species differences in tachykinin receptor distribution: further evidence that
the substance P (NK1) receptor predominates in human brain.

Rigby M(1), O'Donnell R, Rupniak NM.

Author information: 
(1)In Vivo Neuroscience, Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories, Neuroscience 
Research Centre, Terlings Park, Harlow, Essex CM20 2QR, United Kingdom.
Michael_Rigby@Merck.com

Marked species differences in the distribution of central tachykinin receptors
are reported but uncertainty remains about the ability of available ligands to
detect NK2 and NK3 receptors in human brain. We compared the distribution of NK1,
NK2, and NK3 receptors in sections from rodent, primate, and human brain using
the 125I-labeled ligands substance P (SP) for the NK1 receptor, neurokinin A
(NKA) for the NK2 receptor, and neurokinin B (NKB) and eledoisin for NK3
receptors. Duration of exposure to autoradiographic film was from 7 days for
[125I]SP up to 90 days for the other ligands. High levels of specific [125I]SP
binding were seen throughout the brains of all species studied. Specific
[125I]NKA binding was detected in brains from neonatal rat, and to a lesser level
in adult rat, gerbil, and guinea pig; it was not detected in monkey or human
brain, but was present in circular muscle of human duodenum, confirming that this
ligand binds to human NK2 receptors under our experimental conditions. Specific
[125I]NKB and [125I]eledoisin binding was widespread in brain sections from rats,
gerbils, and guinea pigs, and very low levels were also detected in marmoset,
squirrel monkey, and rhesus monkey brain after prolonged (up to 90 days)
exposure. We failed to identify specific eledoisin binding in human brain, even
after prolonged exposures. These findings demonstrate that the NK1 receptor is
the predominant tachykinin receptor expressed in primate and human brain, but
that low levels of NK3 receptor are present in nonhuman, primate brain.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20664 
PMID: 16127708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2644. Horm Behav. 2006 Mar;49(3):293-302. Epub 2005 Aug 26.

Hormonal changes related to paternal and alloparental care in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

da Silva Mota MT(1), Franci CR, de Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, UFRN, Campus Universitário,
Natal, Brazil. mtmota@cb.ufm.br

The physiological mechanisms of parental and alloparental care in cooperatively
breeding nonhuman primate species such as the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) are poorly known. In this study, we examined prolactin and cortisol
plasma levels of fathers and older offspring of both sexes, with and without
previous experience in infant carrying, around parturition and during infant
carrying. Blood samples were collected from fathers and older offspring and
prolactin and cortisol were measured by RIA and EIA, respectively. Prolactin
levels of both caretakers were not influenced by infant's birth, previous
experience or proximity to parturition. However, prolactin levels increased in
both caretakers while in physical contact with infants and also with the number
of infants being carried in older offspring. These findings suggest that
increased prolactin seems to be mainly due to physical effort rather than a
physiological trigger of paternal and alloparental care in common marmosets.
Cortisol levels were higher for experienced fathers shortly before parturition
which could act to reinforce affiliative bonds between breeding males and females
at this time or in the ability of males to detect the proximity of the
parturition or both.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.07.012 
PMID: 16126204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

