

2644. Horm Behav. 2006 Mar;49(3):293-302. Epub 2005 Aug 26.

Hormonal changes related to paternal and alloparental care in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

da Silva Mota MT(1), Franci CR, de Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, UFRN, Campus Universitário,
Natal, Brazil. mtmota@cb.ufm.br

The physiological mechanisms of parental and alloparental care in cooperatively
breeding nonhuman primate species such as the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) are poorly known. In this study, we examined prolactin and cortisol
plasma levels of fathers and older offspring of both sexes, with and without
previous experience in infant carrying, around parturition and during infant
carrying. Blood samples were collected from fathers and older offspring and
prolactin and cortisol were measured by RIA and EIA, respectively. Prolactin
levels of both caretakers were not influenced by infant's birth, previous
experience or proximity to parturition. However, prolactin levels increased in
both caretakers while in physical contact with infants and also with the number
of infants being carried in older offspring. These findings suggest that
increased prolactin seems to be mainly due to physical effort rather than a
physiological trigger of paternal and alloparental care in common marmosets.
Cortisol levels were higher for experienced fathers shortly before parturition
which could act to reinforce affiliative bonds between breeding males and females
at this time or in the ability of males to detect the proximity of the
parturition or both.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2005.07.012 
PMID: 16126204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2645. Nature. 2005 Aug 25;436(7054):1161-5.

The neuronal representation of pitch in primate auditory cortex.

Bendor D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.
dbendor@bme.jhu.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 2005 Aug 25;436(7054):1093-4.

Pitch perception is critical for identifying and segregating auditory objects,
especially in the context of music and speech. The perception of pitch is not
unique to humans and has been experimentally demonstrated in several animal
species. Pitch is the subjective attribute of a sound's fundamental frequency
(f(0)) that is determined by both the temporal regularity and average repetition 
rate of its acoustic waveform. Spectrally dissimilar sounds can have the same
pitch if they share a common f(0). Even when the acoustic energy at f(0) is
removed ('missing fundamental') the same pitch is still perceived. Despite its
importance for hearing, how pitch is represented in the cerebral cortex is
unknown. Here we show the existence of neurons in the auditory cortex of marmoset
monkeys that respond to both pure tones and missing fundamental harmonic complex 
sounds with the same f(0), providing a neural correlate for pitch constancy.
These pitch-selective neurons are located in a restricted low-frequency cortical 
region near the anterolateral border of the primary auditory cortex, and is
consistent with the location of a pitch-selective area identified in recent
imaging studies in humans.

DOI: 10.1038/nature03867 
PMCID: PMC1780171
PMID: 16121182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

