

2646. Nature. 2005 Aug 25;436(7054):1093-4.

Neuroscience: finding the missing fundamental.

Zatorre RJ.

Comment on
    Nature. 2005 Aug 25;436(7054):1161-5.

DOI: 10.1038/4361093a 
PMID: 16121160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2647. Mitochondrion. 2002 Feb;1(4):381-9.

Lamellar and tubular associations of the mitochondrial cristae: unique forms of
the cristae present in steroid-producing cells.

Prince FP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural Science, Plymouth State College, Plymouth, NH 03264,
USA. fprince@mail.plymouth.edu

This report provides a survey of mitochondrial structure in numerous cell types
from all basic tissue types (epithelial, connective, muscular and nervous) with
the main purpose being to determine the presence or absence of a form of the
cristae previously termed the lamellar association (LA) (Anat. Rec. , 254 (1999) 
534). The LA is a complex of closely apposed lamellar cristae within the inner
membrane system of the mitochondria of Leydig cells, the steroid-producing cells 
of the testis. These lamellae are separated by a gap of approximately 4 nm. This 
survey has found no evidence of the LA in non-steroid-producing cells. The LA is 
a common cristae morphology in human Leydig cells, but is rare in marmoset Leydig
cells, where instead, tubular associations (TA) are found. Cells of other
steroid-producing cells are not included in this survey. Published micrographs
from the literature do, however, have evidence of the existence of the LA and TA 
in other steroid-producing cells. It is concluded that these membrane
substructures of the inner mitochondrial membrane are unique to steroid-producing
cells. It is suggested that the LA is a region of the cristae, which is not
involved with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, since the dimensions do
not allow for F1 complexes on the matrix side of the cristae. The significance of
this remains elusive.

DOI: 10.1016/s1567-7249(01)00038-1 
PMID: 16120292 

