

2647. Mitochondrion. 2002 Feb;1(4):381-9.

Lamellar and tubular associations of the mitochondrial cristae: unique forms of
the cristae present in steroid-producing cells.

Prince FP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural Science, Plymouth State College, Plymouth, NH 03264,
USA. fprince@mail.plymouth.edu

This report provides a survey of mitochondrial structure in numerous cell types
from all basic tissue types (epithelial, connective, muscular and nervous) with
the main purpose being to determine the presence or absence of a form of the
cristae previously termed the lamellar association (LA) (Anat. Rec. , 254 (1999) 
534). The LA is a complex of closely apposed lamellar cristae within the inner
membrane system of the mitochondria of Leydig cells, the steroid-producing cells 
of the testis. These lamellae are separated by a gap of approximately 4 nm. This 
survey has found no evidence of the LA in non-steroid-producing cells. The LA is 
a common cristae morphology in human Leydig cells, but is rare in marmoset Leydig
cells, where instead, tubular associations (TA) are found. Cells of other
steroid-producing cells are not included in this survey. Published micrographs
from the literature do, however, have evidence of the existence of the LA and TA 
in other steroid-producing cells. It is concluded that these membrane
substructures of the inner mitochondrial membrane are unique to steroid-producing
cells. It is suggested that the LA is a region of the cristae, which is not
involved with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production, since the dimensions do
not allow for F1 complexes on the matrix side of the cristae. The significance of
this remains elusive.

DOI: 10.1016/s1567-7249(01)00038-1 
PMID: 16120292 


2648. Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol. 2005 Sep;26(3):252-7.

Ductus venosus shunting in marmoset and baboon fetuses.

Tchirikov M(1), Schlabritz-Loutsevitch N, Nathanielsz PW, Beindorff N, Schröder
HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Fetal Medicine, Universitätsklinikum
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. tchiriko@uke.uni-hamburg.de

OBJECTIVES: The increased shunting of blood through the ductus venosus (DV)
during stress situations is an important mechanism that ensures fetal survival.
Although primate fetuses may serve to study the function of this important venous
shunt, the rate of DV shunting has not been determined in non-human primates
under normal conditions.
METHODS: DV shunting was measured in 11 marmoset (eight mothers) and eight
singleton baboon fetuses in mid and late gestation using Doppler ultrasound.
RESULTS: DV shunting in marmosets was 39 +/- 20% (mean +/- SD) and 28 +/- 8% in
baboon fetuses. Umbilical vein (UV) blood volume rate increased significantly in 
baboons with gestational age (GA) (UV flow volume = -111.8 + 1.6*GA; r = 0.94, P 
< 0.05) and slightly in marmosets (UV flow volume = -10.37 + 0.13*GA; r = 0.42, P
> 0.05). Both UV diameter (r = 0.84) and the time-averaged mean UV flow velocity 
in baboons depended on GA (r = 0.8, P < 0.05). Distinct pulsation was found in
marmoset fetuses in the UV (pulsatility index (PI) = 1.3 +/- 0.9) and the DV (PI 
= 1.9 +/- 1.2) with zero blood flow velocity during atrial contraction.
CONCLUSIONS: A high level of pulsation is observed in the UV in marmoset fetuses.
DV shunting in marmosets is higher than in baboon fetuses.

DOI: 10.1002/uog.1973 
PMID: 16116564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

