

265. Exp Neurobiol. 2020 Aug 31;29(4):285-299. doi: 10.5607/en20025.

Synchrony of Spontaneous Burst Firing between Retinal Ganglion Cells Across
Species.

Ahn J(1), Phan HL(2), Cha S(1), Koo KI(2), Yoo Y(3), Goo YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Chungbuk National University School of Medicine,
Cheongju 28644, Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Ulsan, Ulsan 44610, Korea.
(3)Department of Electronics Engineering, Incheon National University, Incheon
22012, Korea.

Neurons communicate with other neurons in response to environmental changes.
Their goal is to transmit information to their targets reliably. A burst, which
consists of multiple spikes within a short time interval, plays an essential role
in enhancing the reliability of information transmission through synapses. In the
visual system, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), the output neurons of the retina,
show bursting activity and transmit retinal information to the lateral geniculate
neuron of the thalamus. In this study, to extend our interest to the population
level, the burstings of multiple RGCs were simultaneously recorded using a
multi-channel recording system. As the first step in network analysis, we focused
on investigating the pairwise burst correlation between two RGCs. Furthermore, to
assess if the population bursting is preserved across species, we compared the
synchronized bursting of RGCs between marmoset monkey (callithrix jacchus), one
species of the new world monkeys and mouse (C57BL/6J strain). First, monkey RGCs 
showed a larger number of spikes within a burst, while the inter-spike interval, 
burst duration, and inter-burst interval were smaller compared with mouse RGCs.
Monkey RGCs showed a strong burst synchronization between RGCs, whereas mouse
RGCs showed no correlated burst firing. Monkey RGC pairs showed significantly
higher burst synchrony and mutual information than mouse RGC pairs did.
Comprehensively, through this study, we emphasize that two species have a
different bursting activity of RGCs and different burst synchronization
suggesting two species have distinctive retinal processing.

DOI: 10.5607/en20025 
PMCID: PMC7492847
PMID: 32921641 


266. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Nov;131:110638. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110638. Epub
2020 Sep 8.

Inhibitory effect of simiao qingwen baidu decoction on epstein-barr virus EA, VCA
expression and DNA replication in vitro.

Yan Y(1), Yang X(1), Sun X(1), Zhang H(1), Liu L(2), Ran R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China.
(2)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China. Electronic address:
llling087@163.com.
(3)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China. Electronic address:
ruiyruan@hotmail.com.

This article aims to investigate the role of Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction
(traditional Chinese medicine) in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced infectious
mononucleosis. Sprague Dawley rats were given Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction by
gavage, and the medicated serum was collected. EBV-latent infected human Burkitt 
lymphomas Raji and EBV-transformed marmosets B lymphoblast cell B95-8 were
treated with medicated serum. CCK8 assay and flow cytometry were performed to
detect cell proliferation and apoptosis. Indirect immunofluorescence assay was
performed to analyze EA or VCA positive expression. The copy-number of EBV-DNA
and the gene expression were detected by quantitative PCR or quantitative
real-time PCR. We found that the medicated serum inhibited proliferation of Raji 
and B95-8 cells, especially 10 %-medicated serum. The 10 %-medicated serum
significantly suppressed EA expression in Raji cells and VCA expression in B95-8 
cells. The expression of BZLF1, BRLF1, BMLF1 and EBNA-1 in Raji cells was
significantly inhibited by 10 %-medicated serum. 10 %-medicated serum caused a
decrease in the copy-number of EBV-DNA in Raji cells. In conclusion, our data
imply that Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction represses the expression of EA and VCA,
and EBV-DNA replication. Thus, our work suggests that Simiao Qingwen Baidu
Decoction may play a vital role in anti-EBV.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110638 
PMID: 32916537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

