

2653. Vet Radiol Ultrasound. 2005 May-Jun;46(3):251-8.

Transcutaneous ultrasonography of the abdomen in the normal common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Wagner WM(1), Kirberger RM.

Author information: 
(1)Diagnostic Imaging Section, Department of Companion Animal Clinical Studies,
Onderstepoort Veterinary Academic Hospital, University of Pretoria, Private Bag
X04, Onderstepoort 0110, Republic of South Africa. wencke.wagner@up.ac.za

Ultrasonographic examinations were performed on 17 clinically healthy adult
common marmosets to gain information about the normal abdominal echoanatomy. The 
marmosets were 1.5-9 years of age and weighed between 328 and 506g. Marked
species-specific differences compared with the cat or dog were noted. Good images
of the kidneys, bladder, spleen, adrenal glands, liver, and the gastrointestinal 
tract could be obtained. The pancreas, caecum, and abdominal lymph nodes were not
seen. The spleen was the least echogenic organ, followed by the medium echogenic 
liver and the sometimes isoechoic, but mostly hyperechoic renal cortex. The
kidneys had a poor corticomedullary distinction. The prominent right lobes of the
liver extended caudally far beyond the costal arch. The gallbladder had a bi- to 
multi-lobed appearance with a wide, tortuous cystic duct. The pylorus was
centrally positioned. The adrenal glands were readily seen, but should not be
confused with the adjacent spleen. A statistically significant (P<0.05)
difference between female and male kidney, and right adrenal gland length was
present.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1740-8261.2005.00045.x 
PMID: 16050285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2654. Vet Radiol Ultrasound. 2005 May-Jun;46(3):217-24.

Radiographic anatomy of the thorax and abdomen of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Wagner WM(1), Kirberger RM.

Author information: 
(1)Diagnostic Imaging Section, Department of Companion Animal Clinical Studies,
Onderstepoort Veterinary Academic Hospital, University of Pretoria, Private Bag
X04, Onderstepoort, 0110, Republic of South Africa. wencke.wagner@up.ac.za

A standard radiographic procedure was developed for the thorax and abdomen in the
common marmoset. A description and reference values for the corresponding
radiographic anatomy are given. Radiographs were obtained from 17 anaesthetized
healthy mature marmosets ranging from 1.5 to 9 years and 328 to 506 g.
Left-to-right lateral recumbent and ventrodorsal whole-body radiographs made at
end inspiration are recommended. Images of the heart, lungs, liver, gastric axis,
and at least one kidney could be evaluated consistently. A generalized
interstitial/peribronchial pattern was normally present. The mean of the
vertebral heart size +/- SD on dorsoventral or ventrodorsal views was 9.42 (+/-
0.44), ranging from 8.8 to 10.6. Abdominal detail was generally poor. The
gastrointestinal structures could often only be identified because of their
luminal gas. The right liver lobes were prominent and extended caudally beyond
the costal arch. The pylorus was in a central position and the spleen could not
be distinguished. Additionally, pancreas, lymph nodes, urinary bladder, and
ureters were not identified. A statistically significant difference (P < or =
0.05) between female and male kidney length existed. This study emphasizes that
significant species differences exist, and simply applying canine or feline
radiographic interpretation will result in misinterpretation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1740-8261.2005.00044.x 
PMID: 16050279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

