

2654. Vet Radiol Ultrasound. 2005 May-Jun;46(3):217-24.

Radiographic anatomy of the thorax and abdomen of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Wagner WM(1), Kirberger RM.

Author information: 
(1)Diagnostic Imaging Section, Department of Companion Animal Clinical Studies,
Onderstepoort Veterinary Academic Hospital, University of Pretoria, Private Bag
X04, Onderstepoort, 0110, Republic of South Africa. wencke.wagner@up.ac.za

A standard radiographic procedure was developed for the thorax and abdomen in the
common marmoset. A description and reference values for the corresponding
radiographic anatomy are given. Radiographs were obtained from 17 anaesthetized
healthy mature marmosets ranging from 1.5 to 9 years and 328 to 506 g.
Left-to-right lateral recumbent and ventrodorsal whole-body radiographs made at
end inspiration are recommended. Images of the heart, lungs, liver, gastric axis,
and at least one kidney could be evaluated consistently. A generalized
interstitial/peribronchial pattern was normally present. The mean of the
vertebral heart size +/- SD on dorsoventral or ventrodorsal views was 9.42 (+/-
0.44), ranging from 8.8 to 10.6. Abdominal detail was generally poor. The
gastrointestinal structures could often only be identified because of their
luminal gas. The right liver lobes were prominent and extended caudally beyond
the costal arch. The pylorus was in a central position and the spleen could not
be distinguished. Additionally, pancreas, lymph nodes, urinary bladder, and
ureters were not identified. A statistically significant difference (P < or =
0.05) between female and male kidney length existed. This study emphasizes that
significant species differences exist, and simply applying canine or feline
radiographic interpretation will result in misinterpretation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1740-8261.2005.00044.x 
PMID: 16050279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2655. Am J Pathol. 2005 Aug;167(2):455-63.

Pneumonitis and multi-organ system disease in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) infected with the severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated
coronavirus.

Greenough TC(1), Carville A, Coderre J, Somasundaran M, Sullivan JL, Luzuriaga K,
Mansfield K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01605, USA. thomas.greenough@umassmed.edu

Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a significant emerging infectious
disease. Humans infected with the etiological agent, SARS-associated coronavirus 
(SARS-CoV), primarily present with pneumonitis but may also develop hepatic,
gastrointestinal, and renal pathology. We inoculated common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with the objective of developing a small nonhuman primate model of SARS.
Two groups of C. jacchus were inoculated intratracheally with cell culture
supernatant containing SARS-CoV. In a time course pathogenesis study, animals
were evaluated at 2, 4, and 7 days after infection for morphological changes and 
evidence of viral replication. All animals developed a multifocal mononuclear
cell interstitial pneumonitis, accompanied by multinucleated syncytial cells,
edema, and bronchiolitis in most animals. Viral antigen localized primarily to
infected alveolar macrophages and type-1 pneumocytes by immunohistochemistry.
Viral RNA was detected in all animals from pulmonary tissue extracts obtained at 
necropsy. Viral RNA was also detected in tracheobronchial lymph node and
myocardium, together with inflammatory changes, in some animals. Hepatic
inflammation was observed in most animals, predominantly as a multifocal
lymphocytic hepatitis accompanied by necrosis of individual hepatocytes. These
findings identify the common marmoset as a promising nonhuman primate to study
SARS-CoV pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)62989-6 
PMCID: PMC1603565
PMID: 16049331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

