

2655. Am J Pathol. 2005 Aug;167(2):455-63.

Pneumonitis and multi-organ system disease in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) infected with the severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated
coronavirus.

Greenough TC(1), Carville A, Coderre J, Somasundaran M, Sullivan JL, Luzuriaga K,
Mansfield K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01605, USA. thomas.greenough@umassmed.edu

Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a significant emerging infectious
disease. Humans infected with the etiological agent, SARS-associated coronavirus 
(SARS-CoV), primarily present with pneumonitis but may also develop hepatic,
gastrointestinal, and renal pathology. We inoculated common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with the objective of developing a small nonhuman primate model of SARS.
Two groups of C. jacchus were inoculated intratracheally with cell culture
supernatant containing SARS-CoV. In a time course pathogenesis study, animals
were evaluated at 2, 4, and 7 days after infection for morphological changes and 
evidence of viral replication. All animals developed a multifocal mononuclear
cell interstitial pneumonitis, accompanied by multinucleated syncytial cells,
edema, and bronchiolitis in most animals. Viral antigen localized primarily to
infected alveolar macrophages and type-1 pneumocytes by immunohistochemistry.
Viral RNA was detected in all animals from pulmonary tissue extracts obtained at 
necropsy. Viral RNA was also detected in tracheobronchial lymph node and
myocardium, together with inflammatory changes, in some animals. Hepatic
inflammation was observed in most animals, predominantly as a multifocal
lymphocytic hepatitis accompanied by necrosis of individual hepatocytes. These
findings identify the common marmoset as a promising nonhuman primate to study
SARS-CoV pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)62989-6 
PMCID: PMC1603565
PMID: 16049331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2656. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Jul;22(2):437-47.

S-cones do not contribute to the OFF-midget pathway in the retina of the
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Lee SC(1), Telkes I, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, The University of
Melbourne, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia.

It is well established that in primate retina both medium- and
long-wavelength-sensitive cone types provide input to the midget-parvocellular
pathway. The question, however, whether short-wavelength-sensitive (S or 'blue') 
cones provide input to the OFF-division of the midget-parvocellular pathway is
still controversial. In the present study, we investigated the connections of
nearly 400 S-cones with OFF-midget bipolar cells in central and peripheral retina
of a New World monkey, the marmoset. Horizontal sections or pieces of whole
retinae were double-labelled with an antiserum to S-cone opsin to identify
S-cones and antibodies to the cell adhesion molecule CD15 to identify OFF-midget 
bipolar cells. Peanut agglutinin coupled to a fluorescent tag was used to label
the cone pedicles of all cone types. Peanut agglutinin was also used to
distinguish S-cones from the other cone types. The sections were analysed with
deconvolution microscopy. We found that nearly all pedicles of medium- and
long-wavelength-sensitive cones are located opposite distinct dendritic clusters 
formed by OFF-midget bipolar cells. By contrast, the S-cone pedicles are not
located opposite dendritic clusters. Instead, S-cones make sparse contacts with
CD15-labelled processes. Some of these processes protruded from OFF-midget
bipolar clusters, whereas others could be traced to a diffuse bipolar cell type. 
Thus, in the marmoset retina the midget-parvocellular system does not carry a
blue-OFF signal.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04231.x 
PMID: 16045497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

