

2656. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Jul;22(2):437-47.

S-cones do not contribute to the OFF-midget pathway in the retina of the
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Lee SC(1), Telkes I, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, The University of
Melbourne, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia.

It is well established that in primate retina both medium- and
long-wavelength-sensitive cone types provide input to the midget-parvocellular
pathway. The question, however, whether short-wavelength-sensitive (S or 'blue') 
cones provide input to the OFF-division of the midget-parvocellular pathway is
still controversial. In the present study, we investigated the connections of
nearly 400 S-cones with OFF-midget bipolar cells in central and peripheral retina
of a New World monkey, the marmoset. Horizontal sections or pieces of whole
retinae were double-labelled with an antiserum to S-cone opsin to identify
S-cones and antibodies to the cell adhesion molecule CD15 to identify OFF-midget 
bipolar cells. Peanut agglutinin coupled to a fluorescent tag was used to label
the cone pedicles of all cone types. Peanut agglutinin was also used to
distinguish S-cones from the other cone types. The sections were analysed with
deconvolution microscopy. We found that nearly all pedicles of medium- and
long-wavelength-sensitive cones are located opposite distinct dendritic clusters 
formed by OFF-midget bipolar cells. By contrast, the S-cone pedicles are not
located opposite dendritic clusters. Instead, S-cones make sparse contacts with
CD15-labelled processes. Some of these processes protruded from OFF-midget
bipolar clusters, whereas others could be traced to a diffuse bipolar cell type. 
Thus, in the marmoset retina the midget-parvocellular system does not carry a
blue-OFF signal.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04231.x 
PMID: 16045497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2657. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Jun;21(12):3240-50.

Immunoautoradiographic analysis of NMDA receptor subunits and associated
postsynaptic density proteins in the brain of dyskinetic MPTP-treated common
marmosets.

Hurley MJ(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Pharmaceutical Sciences Division,
School of Health and Life Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
michael.j.hurley@kcl.ac.uk

l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in
Parkinson's disease may result from aberrant glutamatergic stimulation of the
striatum due to synaptic plasticity in the motor cortex or striatum as a
consequence of adaptation of striatal output pathways. This might result from
changes in NMDA receptor subunit or NMDA receptor associated postsynaptic density
(PSD) scaffold protein expression. Using immunoautoradiography the expression
levels of NR1 and NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor and the postsynaptic density
scaffold proteins, PSD-95, PSD-93, and neurofilament light (NFL) were examined in
normal common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned animals that
exhibited high or low levels of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Brains from
MPTP-lesioned animals that were not primed for l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia were not
included in this study. No alterations in the NR1 NMDA receptor subunit were
observed. The NR2B NMDA receptor subunit was increased in caudal caudate nucleus 
and putamen, hippocampus, cingulate motor area (CMA), supplementary motor area
(SMA) and dorsal primary motor cortex (dMI) of highly dyskinetic MPTP-lesioned
marmosets, but not in animals with low levels of dyskinesia. PSD-93 was decreased
in the globus pallidus of marmosets with high and low levels of dyskinesia and
increased in the CMA, SMA and dMI of highly dyskinetic marmosets. PSD-95 was
increased in the SMA of highly dyskinetic marmosets, but not in animals with low 
dyskinesia. NFL expression was elevated in the SMA and dorsal and ventral MI of
highly dyskinetic marmosets. These results suggest that l-DOPA treatment of
MPTP-lesioned marmosets can affect glutamatergic systems and indicate that
altered NMDA receptor function may relate to dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04169.x 
PMID: 16026462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

