

2658. J Neuroimmunol. 2005 Nov;168(1-2):1-12. Epub 2005 Jul 14.

Non-human primate models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis: Variations
on a theme.

't Hart BA(1), Bauer J, Brok HP, Amor S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Despite years of intensive research into multiple sclerosis (MS) scientists have 
not yet succeeded in developing an absolute therapy for the treatment of this
disabling disease of the human central nervous system. The wide immunological gap
between inbred rodent strains and the heterogeneous human population is probably 
the single most important factor that hampers the translation of scientific
principles developed in rodents into effective therapies for MS. Because of the
closer immunological proximity to humans, non-human primates provide useful
experimental models that may help to bridge this gap. Here we review the models
of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in rhesus macaques and common
marmosets. We will discuss the salient points of the models and suggest how these
may represent the spectrum of inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central 
nervous system in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2005.05.017 
PMID: 16023737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2659. J Virol. 2005 Aug;79(15):10069-72.

Reduced prevalence of Epstein-Barr virus-related lymphocryptovirus infection in
sera from a new world primate.

Fogg MH(1), Carville A, Cameron J, Quink C, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA 02115, USA. fwang@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

The recent discovery of an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-related lymphocryptovirus
(LCV) naturally infecting common marmosets demonstrated that gamma-1
herpesviruses are not limited to human and Old World nonhuman primate hosts. We
developed serologic assays to detect serum antibodies against lytic- and
latent-infection marmoset LCV antigens in order to perform the first
seroepidemiologic study of LCV infection in New World primates. In three
different domestic colonies and in animals recently captured from the wild, we
found that the seroprevalence of marmoset LCV infection was not as ubiquitous as 
with EBV or Old World LCV. These biologic differences in LCV infection of New
World versus human and Old World primate hosts correlate with the evolution of
the LCV viral gene repertoire.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.79.15.10069-10072.2005 
PMCID: PMC1181547
PMID: 16014968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

