

2659. J Virol. 2005 Aug;79(15):10069-72.

Reduced prevalence of Epstein-Barr virus-related lymphocryptovirus infection in
sera from a new world primate.

Fogg MH(1), Carville A, Cameron J, Quink C, Wang F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA 02115, USA. fwang@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

The recent discovery of an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-related lymphocryptovirus
(LCV) naturally infecting common marmosets demonstrated that gamma-1
herpesviruses are not limited to human and Old World nonhuman primate hosts. We
developed serologic assays to detect serum antibodies against lytic- and
latent-infection marmoset LCV antigens in order to perform the first
seroepidemiologic study of LCV infection in New World primates. In three
different domestic colonies and in animals recently captured from the wild, we
found that the seroprevalence of marmoset LCV infection was not as ubiquitous as 
with EBV or Old World LCV. These biologic differences in LCV infection of New
World versus human and Old World primate hosts correlate with the evolution of
the LCV viral gene repertoire.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.79.15.10069-10072.2005 
PMCID: PMC1181547
PMID: 16014968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2660. J Hum Evol. 2005 Sep;49(3):370-89.

Variation in maxillary sinus anatomy among platyrrhine monkeys.

Nishimura TD(1), Takai M, Tsubamoto T, Egi N, Shigehara N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Physical Anthropology, Department of Zoology, Graduate School of
Science, Kyoto University, Kitashirakawa Oiwake-cho, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8502,
Japan. nishimur@anthro.zool.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Variations in the maxillary sinus anatomy of extant and fossil catarrhine
primates have been extensively examined using computed tomography (CT), and have 
potential utility for phylogenetic analyses. This approach has also been used to 
demonstrate its anatomical variation in eight of the 16 extant genera of
platyrrhines and the absence of the sinus in Saimiri and Cacajao. We used this
approach to evaluate the three-dimensional anatomy of the maxillary sinus in all 
extant platyrrhine genera, and here argue the phylogenic implications of this
variation. This study confirms, for the most part, previous CT studies and
augments them with the six genera not studied previously: Ateles, Lagothrix,
Callithrix, Cebuella, Pithecia and Chiropotes. The entire maxilla is pneumatized 
by the sinus in the atelines, Cebus, and Callicebus, whereas the sinus
pneumatizes only the medial part of the maxilla in the callitrichines and Aotus. 
Pithecia has a unique conformation in which the maxillary sinus and the expanded 
inferior meatus pneumatize the posteromedial and anterolateral parts of the
entire maxilla, respectively. Chiropotes has no sinus, and the inferior meatus
possibly expands into the area between the middle meatus and medial surface of
the maxilla to disturb sinus formation, as in the case of its close relative
Cacajao. Finally, we argue that the sinus that pneumatizes the entire maxilla is 
a primitive feature in extant platyrrhines and was probably shared by the last
common ancestor of the anthropoids.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.05.001 
PMID: 16009397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

