

266. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Nov;131:110638. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110638. Epub
2020 Sep 8.

Inhibitory effect of simiao qingwen baidu decoction on epstein-barr virus EA, VCA
expression and DNA replication in vitro.

Yan Y(1), Yang X(1), Sun X(1), Zhang H(1), Liu L(2), Ran R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China.
(2)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China. Electronic address:
llling087@163.com.
(3)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China. Electronic address:
ruiyruan@hotmail.com.

This article aims to investigate the role of Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction
(traditional Chinese medicine) in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced infectious
mononucleosis. Sprague Dawley rats were given Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction by
gavage, and the medicated serum was collected. EBV-latent infected human Burkitt 
lymphomas Raji and EBV-transformed marmosets B lymphoblast cell B95-8 were
treated with medicated serum. CCK8 assay and flow cytometry were performed to
detect cell proliferation and apoptosis. Indirect immunofluorescence assay was
performed to analyze EA or VCA positive expression. The copy-number of EBV-DNA
and the gene expression were detected by quantitative PCR or quantitative
real-time PCR. We found that the medicated serum inhibited proliferation of Raji 
and B95-8 cells, especially 10 %-medicated serum. The 10 %-medicated serum
significantly suppressed EA expression in Raji cells and VCA expression in B95-8 
cells. The expression of BZLF1, BRLF1, BMLF1 and EBNA-1 in Raji cells was
significantly inhibited by 10 %-medicated serum. 10 %-medicated serum caused a
decrease in the copy-number of EBV-DNA in Raji cells. In conclusion, our data
imply that Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction represses the expression of EA and VCA,
and EBV-DNA replication. Thus, our work suggests that Simiao Qingwen Baidu
Decoction may play a vital role in anti-EBV.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110638 
PMID: 32916537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Jan 1;31(1):439-447. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa235.

Ultrahigh-resolution MRI Reveals Extensive Cortical Demyelination in a Nonhuman
Primate Model of Multiple Sclerosis.

Donadieu M(1), Kelly H(1), Szczupak D(2), Lin JP(1), Song Y(1), Yen CCC(3), Ye
FQ(4), Kolb H(1), Guy JR(1), Beck ES(1), Jacobson S(5), Silva AC(2), Sati P(1),
Reich DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261,
USA.
(3)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(4)Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National Institute of Mental Health,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(5)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Cortical lesions are a primary driver of disability in multiple sclerosis (MS).
However, noninvasive detection of cortical lesions with in vivo magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) remains challenging. Experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common marmoset is a relevant animal model of MS
for investigating the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to brain damage. This
study aimed to characterize cortical lesions in marmosets with EAE using
ultrahigh-field (7 T) MRI and histological analysis. Tissue preparation was
optimized to enable the acquisition of high-spatial resolution (50-μm isotropic) 
T2*-weighted images. A total of 14 animals were scanned in this study, and 70% of
the diseased animals presented at least one cortical lesion on postmortem
imaging. Cortical lesions identified on MRI were verified with myelin proteolipid
protein immunostaining. An optimized T2*-weighted sequence was developed for in
vivo imaging and shown to capture 65% of cortical lesions detected postmortem.
Immunostaining confirmed extensive demyelination with preserved neuronal somata
in several cortical areas of EAE animals. Overall, this study demonstrates the
relevance and feasibility of the marmoset EAE model to study cortical lesions,
among the most important yet least understood features of MS.

Published by Oxford University Press 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa235 
PMCID: PMC7947170
PMID: 32901254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

