

2663. Curr Protoc Pharmacol. 2005 Jul;Chapter 5:Unit5.42. doi:
10.1002/0471141755.ph0542s29.

MPTP-induced models of Parkinson's disease in mice and non-human primates.

Visanji NP(1), Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The pro-toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is widely used 
to create animal models of Parkinson's disease. This unit describes protocols for
the production of stable and substantial lesions in the dopaminergic
nigrostriatal pathway of mice and non-human primates. The models can be employed 
for assessing the neural mechanisms underlying the development of Parkinson's
disease and for screening potential therapies for the treatment of this
condition.

DOI: 10.1002/0471141755.ph0542s29 
PMID: 21953394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2664. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Aug;285(2):677-89.

Secondary pneumatization of the maxillary sinus in callitrichid primates:
insights from immunohistochemistry and bone cell distribution.

Smith TD(1), Rossie JB, Cooper GM, Mooney MP, Siegel MI.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock, PA 16057,
USA. timothy.smith@sru.edu

The paranasal sinuses remain elusive both in terms of function and in the
proximate mechanism of their development. The present study sought to describe
the maxillary sinuses (MSs) in three species of callitrichid primates at birth, a
time when secondary pneumatization occurs rapidly in humans. The MSs were
examined in serially sectioned and stained slides from the heads of two
Callithrix jacchus, one Leontopithecus rosalia, and two Saguinus geoffroyi.
Specimens were examined microscopically regarding the distribution of osteoclasts
and osteoblasts along the osseous boundaries of the MS and other parts of the
maxillary bone. Selected sections were immunohistochemically evaluated for the
distribution of osteopontin (OPN), which facilitates osteoclast binding. Taken
together, OPN immunoreactivity and bone cell distribution suggested trends of
bone resorption/deposition that were consistent among species for the superior
(roof) and inferior (floor) boundaries of the MS. Expansion at the roof and floor
of the MS appeared to correspond to overall vertical midfacial growth in
callitrichids. Much more variability was noted for the lateral (alveolar) and
medial (nasal walls) of the MS. Unlike the other species, the nasal wall of
Saguinus was static and mostly composed of inferior portions of the nasal capsule
that were undergoing endochondral ossification. The variation seen in the
alveolar walls may relate to the presence or absence of adjacent structures,
although it was noted that adjacency of deciduous molars influenced medial drift 
of the alveolar wall in Saguinus but not Leontopithecus. The results of this
study are largely consistent with the "structural" or "architectural" hypothesis 
of sinus formation with respect to vertical MS enlargement, and the variable
cellular/OPN distribution found along the nasal and alveolar walls was evocative 
of Witmer's (J Vert Paleontol 1997;17:1-73) epithelial hypothesis in revealing
that most expansion occurred in regions unopposed by adjacent structures.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20209 
PMID: 15983987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

