

2666. Environ Mol Mutagen. 2005 Dec;46(4):253-9.

Micronucleated erythrocyte frequencies in old and new world primates: measurement
of micronucleated erythrocyte frequencies in peripheral blood of Callithrix
jacchus as a model for evaluating genotoxicity in primates.

Zúñiga-González GM(1), Gómez-Meda BC, Zamora-Perez AL, Ramos-Ibarra ML,
Batista-González CM, Lemus-Varela ML, Rodríguez-Avila JL, Gallegos-Arreola MP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Mutagénesis, Centro de Investigación Biomédica de Occidente,
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Guadalajara, Jalisco, México.

Nonhuman primates are of particular relevance in evaluating the potential
toxicity of drugs and environmental agents. We have used previously published
information and data from the present study to establish a relationship for New
World (NW) and Old World (OW) primates on the basis of the frequency of
spontaneous micronucleated erythrocytes (MNEs) observed in peripheral blood. Data
on spontaneous MNEs in peripheral blood from 15 species of primates, including
humans, indicate that NW primates have significantly (P < 0.01) higher MNE
frequencies (group mean, 9.5 +/- 7.3 MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes; range,
0.7-20.5/10,000 erythrocytes) than OW primates (group mean, 1.0 +/- 0.9
MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes; range, 0.0-2.6 MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes). Humans are
believed to have developed in the OW, and human MNE frequencies were similar to
those described for OW primate species. We selected the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a NW primate, to determine whether therapeutic pediatric
doses of Metotrexate (MTX; 2.5 mg/kg), Cyclophosphamide (CP; 5 mg/kg),
Cytosine-arabinoside (Ara-C; 3 mg/kg), or 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU; 10 mg/kg),
administered daily for two consecutive days, increase the frequency of
micronuclei. Micronucleated polychromatic erythrocyte frequencies were increased 
significantly in groups receiving MTX, CP and Ara-C, while MNE frequencies were
increased by the Ara-C treatment. The results of this study indicate that NW
primates have higher spontaneous MNE frequencies than OW primates, and because of
this, NW primates like the common marmoset, may be suitable for evaluating the
genotoxicity of chemical agents.

DOI: 10.1002/em.20154 
PMID: 15971258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2667. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2005 Sep;314(3):1274-89. Epub 2005 Jun 10.

Lecozotan (SRA-333): a selective serotonin 1A receptor antagonist that enhances
the stimulated release of glutamate and acetylcholine in the hippocampus and
possesses cognitive-enhancing properties.

Schechter LE(1), Smith DL, Rosenzweig-Lipson S, Sukoff SJ, Dawson LA, Marquis K, 
Jones D, Piesla M, Andree T, Nawoschik S, Harder JA, Womack MD, Buccafusco J,
Terry AV, Hoebel B, Rada P, Kelly M, Abou-Gharbia M, Barrett JE, Childers W.

Author information: 
(1)Wyeth, Neuroscience Discovery Research, Princeton, NJ 08543, USA.
schechl@wyeth.com

Recent data has suggested that the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) receptor is
involved in cognitive processing. A novel 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist,
4-cyano-N-{2R-[4-(2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]-dioxin-5-yl)-piperazin-1-yl]-propyl}-N-py
ridin-2-yl-benzamide HCl (lecozotan), which has been characterized in multiple in
vitro and in vivo pharmacological assays as a drug to treat cognitive
dysfunction, is reported. In vitro binding and intrinsic activity determinations 
demonstrated that lecozotan is a potent and selective 5-HT(1A) receptor
antagonist. Using in vivo microdialysis, lecozotan (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) antagonized
the decrease in hippocampal extracellular 5-HT induced by a challenge dose (0.3
mg/kg s.c.) of 8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and had no effects
alone at doses 10-fold higher. Lecozotan significantly potentiated the potassium 
chloride-stimulated release of glutamate and acetylcholine in the dentate gyrus
of the hippocampus. Chronic administration of lecozotan did not induce 5-HT(1A)
receptor tolerance or desensitization in a behavioral model indicative of
5-HT(1A) receptor function. In drug discrimination studies, lecozotan (0.01-1
mg/kg i.m.) did not substitute for 8-OH-DPAT and produced a dose-related blockade
of the 5-HT(1A) agonist discriminative stimulus cue. In aged rhesus monkeys,
lecozotan produced a significant improvement in task performance efficiency at an
optimal dose (1 mg/kg p.o.). Learning deficits induced by the glutamatergic
antagonist MK-801
[(-)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate]
(assessed by perceptually complex and visual spatial discrimination) and by
specific cholinergic lesions of the hippocampus (assessed by visual spatial
discrimination) were reversed by lecozotan (2 mg/kg i.m.) in marmosets. The
heterosynaptic nature of the effects of lecozotan imbues this compound with a
novel mechanism of action directed at the biochemical pathologies underlying
cognitive loss in Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.105.086363 
PMID: 15951399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

