

267. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Jan 1;31(1):439-447. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa235.

Ultrahigh-resolution MRI Reveals Extensive Cortical Demyelination in a Nonhuman
Primate Model of Multiple Sclerosis.

Donadieu M(1), Kelly H(1), Szczupak D(2), Lin JP(1), Song Y(1), Yen CCC(3), Ye
FQ(4), Kolb H(1), Guy JR(1), Beck ES(1), Jacobson S(5), Silva AC(2), Sati P(1),
Reich DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261,
USA.
(3)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(4)Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National Institute of Mental Health,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(5)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Cortical lesions are a primary driver of disability in multiple sclerosis (MS).
However, noninvasive detection of cortical lesions with in vivo magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) remains challenging. Experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common marmoset is a relevant animal model of MS
for investigating the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to brain damage. This
study aimed to characterize cortical lesions in marmosets with EAE using
ultrahigh-field (7 T) MRI and histological analysis. Tissue preparation was
optimized to enable the acquisition of high-spatial resolution (50-μm isotropic) 
T2*-weighted images. A total of 14 animals were scanned in this study, and 70% of
the diseased animals presented at least one cortical lesion on postmortem
imaging. Cortical lesions identified on MRI were verified with myelin proteolipid
protein immunostaining. An optimized T2*-weighted sequence was developed for in
vivo imaging and shown to capture 65% of cortical lesions detected postmortem.
Immunostaining confirmed extensive demyelination with preserved neuronal somata
in several cortical areas of EAE animals. Overall, this study demonstrates the
relevance and feasibility of the marmoset EAE model to study cortical lesions,
among the most important yet least understood features of MS.

Published by Oxford University Press 2020.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa235 
PMCID: PMC7947170
PMID: 32901254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Curr Biol. 2020 Nov 2;30(21):4276-4283.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.08.019. Epub
2020 Sep 3.

Theta Synchronization of Phonatory and Articulatory Systems in Marmoset Monkey
Vocal Production.

Risueno-Segovia C(1), Hage SR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Social Communication, Department of Otolaryngology, Head and
Neck Surgery, Hearing Research Centre, University of Tübingen Medical Center,
Elfriede-Aulhorn-Str. 5, 72076 Tübingen, Germany; Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076
Tübingen, Germany; Graduate School of Neural & Behavioural Sciences -
International Max Planck Research School, University of Tübingen, Österberg-Str. 
3, 72074 Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Neurobiology of Social Communication, Department of Otolaryngology, Head and
Neck Surgery, Hearing Research Centre, University of Tübingen Medical Center,
Elfriede-Aulhorn-Str. 5, 72076 Tübingen, Germany; Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076
Tübingen, Germany. Electronic address: steffen.hage@uni-tuebingen.de.

Human speech shares a 3-8-Hz theta rhythm across all languages [1-3]. According
to the frame/content theory of speech evolution, this rhythm corresponds to
syllabic rates derived from natural mandibular-associated oscillations [4]. The
underlying pattern originates from oscillatory movements of articulatory muscles 
[4, 5] tightly linked to periodic vocal fold vibrations [4, 6, 7]. Such
phono-articulatory rhythms have been proposed as one of the crucial
preadaptations for human speech evolution [3, 8, 9]. However, the evolutionary
link in phono-articulatory rhythmicity between vertebrate vocalization and human 
speech remains unclear. From the phonatory perspective, theta oscillations might 
be phylogenetically preserved throughout all vertebrate clades [10-12]. From the 
articulatory perspective, theta oscillations are present in non-vocal lip
smacking [1, 13, 14], teeth chattering [15], vocal lip smacking [16], and clicks 
and faux-speech [17] in non-human primates, potential evolutionary precursors for
speech rhythmicity [1, 13]. Notably, a universal phono-articulatory rhythmicity
similar to that in human speech is considered to be absent in non-human primate
vocalizations, typically produced with sound modulations lacking concomitant
articulatory movements [1, 9, 18]. Here, we challenge this view by investigating 
the coupling of phonatory and articulatory systems in marmoset vocalizations.
Using quantitative measures of acoustic call structure, e.g., amplitude envelope,
and call-associated articulatory movements, i.e., inter-lip distance, we show
that marmosets display speech-like bi-motor rhythmicity. These oscillations are
synchronized and phase locked at theta rhythms. Our findings suggest that
oscillatory rhythms underlying speech production evolved early in the primate
lineage, identifying marmosets as a suitable animal model to decipher the
evolutionary and neural basis of coupled phono-articulatory movements.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.08.019 
PMID: 32888481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

