

2670. Am J Primatol. 2005 Jun;66(2):111-8.

Identification of Helicobacter sp. in gastric mucosa from captive marmosets
(Callithrix sp.; callitrichidae, primates).

de Mello MF(1), Monteiro AB, Fonseca EC, Pissinatti A, Ferreira AM.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Course in Experimental Pathology, Department of Pathology,
Universidade Federal Fluminense, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.
marcelafvmello@hotmail.com

The aim of this study was to identify the presence of Helicobacter sp. in the
gastric mucosa of captive marmosets (Callithrix sp.). Histologic specimens from
the fundic, corpus, and antral gastric regions of six Callithrix jacchus, 12 C.
kuhli, and 12 C. geoffroyi specimens were evaluated. The sections were stained
with hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) and the Warthin-Starry silver impregnation method,
and immunostained with rabbit anti-H. pylori polyclonal antibody.
Helicobacter-like organisms (HLOs) and coccoid forms were present in
silver-stained sections from 29 stomachs, whereas immunohistochemistry (IHC)
tests revealed bacterial aggregates in 15 stomachs. No statistical difference
relative to the presence of Helicobacter sp. was found among the gastric regions 
or marmoset species. Gastric lesions were found in the groups of marmosets that
had positive and negative IHC results, but no correlation between inflammation
and Helicobacter sp. infection was established. These findings demonstrate that
marmosets are susceptible to naturally-occurring Helicobacter sp. infection, and 
open the way to the development of comparative studies on Helicobacter sp.
infection in humans.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20131 
PMID: 15940705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2671. Neurosci Lett. 2005 Jul 22-29;383(1-2):109-14. Epub 2005 Apr 18.

SMI-32 parcellates the visual cortical areas of the marmoset.

Baldauf ZB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Semmelweis
University, Budapest. zsolt.borostyankoi.baldauf@umontreal.ca

The distribution pattern of SMI-32-immunoreactivity (SMI-32-ir) of neuronal
elements was examined in the visual cortical areas of marmoset monkey. Layer IV
of the primary visual cortex (V1) and layers III and V of the extrastriate areas 
showed the most abundant SMI-32-ir. The different areal and laminar distribution 
of SMI-32-ir allowed the distinction between various extrastriate areas and
determined their exact anatomical boundaries in the New World monkey, Callithrix 
penicillata. It is shown here that the parcellating nature of SMI-32 described
earlier in the visual cortical areas of other mammals - including Old World
monkeys - is also present in the marmoset. Furthermore, a comparison became
possible between the chemoanatomical organization of New World and Old World
primates' visual cortical areas.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2005.03.055 
PMID: 15936521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

