

2673. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2005 Jun;38(6):915-24. Epub 2005 Jun 1.

Density, proportion, and dendritic coverage of retinal ganglion cells of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Gomes FL(1), Silveira LC, Saito CA, Yamada ES.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, PA, Brasil.

We performed a quantitative analysis of M and P cell mosaics of the
common-marmoset retina. Ganglion cells were labeled retrogradely from optic nerve
deposits of Biocytin. The labeling was visualized using horseradish peroxidase
(HRP) histochemistry and 3-3'diaminobenzidine as chromogen. M and P cells were
morphologically similar to those found in Old- and New-World primates.
Measurements were performed on well-stained cells from 4 retinas of different
animals. We analyzed separate mosaics for inner and outer M and P cells at
increasing distances from the fovea (2.5-9 mm of eccentricity) to estimate cell
density, proportion, and dendritic coverage. M cell density decreased towards the
retinal periphery in all quadrants. M cell density was higher in the nasal
quadrant than in other retinal regions at similar eccentricities, reaching about 
740 cells/mm(2) at 2.5 mm of temporal eccentricity, and representing 8-14% of all
ganglion cells. P cell density increased from peripheral to more central regions,
reaching about 5540 cells/mm(2) at 2.5 mm of temporal eccentricity. P cells
represented a smaller proportion of all ganglion cells in the nasal quadrant than
in other quadrants, and their numbers increased towards central retinal regions. 
The M cell coverage factor ranged from 5 to 12 and the P cell coverage factor
ranged from 1 to 3 in the nasal quadrant and from 5 to 12 in the other quadrants.
These results show that central and peripheral retinal regions differ in terms of
cell class proportions and dendritic coverage, and their properties do not result
from simply scaling down cell density. Therefore, differences in functional
properties between central and peripheral vision should take these distinct
regional retinal characteristics into account.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2005000600014 
PMID: 15933786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2674. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Jul 15;81(2):190-8.

Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 activation in a primate model of multiple
sclerosis.

Kauppinen TM(1), Suh SW, Genain CP, Swanson RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California at San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94121, USA.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an immune-mediated disabling neurological disorder
involving inflammation, demyelination, axonal damage, and neurodegeneration.
Poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase-1 (PARP-1), a nuclear enzyme linked to DNA repair, has
been shown to regulate the cellular inflammatory response through interactions
with nuclear factor-kappaB. Extensive PARP-1 activation can, by separate
mechanisms, also cause cell death. PARP-1 activation in brain occurs in several
settings associated with oxidative stress and DNA damage, and PARP-1 inhibition
has been shown to attenuate inflammation and improve neuronal survival in these
settings. Here we studied the pattern of PARP-1 activation in a nonhuman primate 
model of MS, marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis (EAE). Characteristic of this model is relapsing and remitting 
focal demyelination typical of human MS. Immunostaining for poly(ADP-ribose), the
enzymatic product of PARP-1, showed PARP-1 activation specifically in plaque
areas of EAE brains. Robust immunostaining was found in astrocytes surrounding
demyelinated EAE plaques and in scattered nearby microglia, oligodendrocytes, and
neurons. The immunostaining also suggested PARP-1 activation in occasional
endothelial cells surrounded by microglia or infiltrating peripheral blood cells.
Given the importance of PARP-1 in both inflammation and cell death processes,
these findings suggest that PARP-1 activation may be a significant factor in the 
pathogenesis of MS.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.20525 
PMID: 15931673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

