

2674. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Jul 15;81(2):190-8.

Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 activation in a primate model of multiple
sclerosis.

Kauppinen TM(1), Suh SW, Genain CP, Swanson RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California at San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94121, USA.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an immune-mediated disabling neurological disorder
involving inflammation, demyelination, axonal damage, and neurodegeneration.
Poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase-1 (PARP-1), a nuclear enzyme linked to DNA repair, has
been shown to regulate the cellular inflammatory response through interactions
with nuclear factor-kappaB. Extensive PARP-1 activation can, by separate
mechanisms, also cause cell death. PARP-1 activation in brain occurs in several
settings associated with oxidative stress and DNA damage, and PARP-1 inhibition
has been shown to attenuate inflammation and improve neuronal survival in these
settings. Here we studied the pattern of PARP-1 activation in a nonhuman primate 
model of MS, marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis (EAE). Characteristic of this model is relapsing and remitting 
focal demyelination typical of human MS. Immunostaining for poly(ADP-ribose), the
enzymatic product of PARP-1, showed PARP-1 activation specifically in plaque
areas of EAE brains. Robust immunostaining was found in astrocytes surrounding
demyelinated EAE plaques and in scattered nearby microglia, oligodendrocytes, and
neurons. The immunostaining also suggested PARP-1 activation in occasional
endothelial cells surrounded by microglia or infiltrating peripheral blood cells.
Given the importance of PARP-1 in both inflammation and cell death processes,
these findings suggest that PARP-1 activation may be a significant factor in the 
pathogenesis of MS.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.20525 
PMID: 15931673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2675. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 2005 Mar;75(2):126-32.

Extra-hepatic vitamin A concentrations in captive Rhesus (Macaca mulatta) and
Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys fed excess vitamin A.

Mills JP(1), Penniston KL, Tanumihardjo SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
WI 53706, USA.

Recent work examining vitamin A (VA) status of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta)
used as models for human biomedical research has revealed subtoxic hepatic VA
concentrations. Livers of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), another
experimental animal, were also high in VA as was serum retinyl ester
concentration. Both species consumed common research diets that provided up to
four times the amount of VA (retinyl acetate) as currently recommended by the
National Research Council. To further define the effects of chronically high
dietary VA as found in many human subpopulations, we analyzed lung and kidney
tissues from subtoxic rhesus and marmoset monkeys (n = 10 each) for retinol and
retinyl esters. Marmoset kidneys contained 0.88 +/- 0.66 micromol VA/g and was
nearly the same as hepatic VA at 1.40 +/- 0.44 micromol/g (p = 0.143). In
contrast, rhesus kidney VA concentrations were 0.0100 +/- 0.0032 micromol/g, even
though liver reserves were 18.8 +/- 6.4 micromol VA/g (p < 0.0001). Lung tissue
VA concentrations, 0.0022 +/- 0.0012 and 0.0061 +/- 0.0025 micromol/g for
marmosets and rhesus, respectively, were lower as compared with kidney (p <
0.011). Kidney and lung VA in monkeys with adequate, but not excessive, VA stores
have not been determined; hence, interpretation of these findings is limited to
tissue retinol and retinyl ester profiles and extrapolation from other species
rather than direct comparison to "normal" values.

DOI: 10.1024/0300-9831.75.2.126 
PMID: 15929633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

