

2675. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 2005 Mar;75(2):126-32.

Extra-hepatic vitamin A concentrations in captive Rhesus (Macaca mulatta) and
Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys fed excess vitamin A.

Mills JP(1), Penniston KL, Tanumihardjo SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
WI 53706, USA.

Recent work examining vitamin A (VA) status of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta)
used as models for human biomedical research has revealed subtoxic hepatic VA
concentrations. Livers of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), another
experimental animal, were also high in VA as was serum retinyl ester
concentration. Both species consumed common research diets that provided up to
four times the amount of VA (retinyl acetate) as currently recommended by the
National Research Council. To further define the effects of chronically high
dietary VA as found in many human subpopulations, we analyzed lung and kidney
tissues from subtoxic rhesus and marmoset monkeys (n = 10 each) for retinol and
retinyl esters. Marmoset kidneys contained 0.88 +/- 0.66 micromol VA/g and was
nearly the same as hepatic VA at 1.40 +/- 0.44 micromol/g (p = 0.143). In
contrast, rhesus kidney VA concentrations were 0.0100 +/- 0.0032 micromol/g, even
though liver reserves were 18.8 +/- 6.4 micromol VA/g (p < 0.0001). Lung tissue
VA concentrations, 0.0022 +/- 0.0012 and 0.0061 +/- 0.0025 micromol/g for
marmosets and rhesus, respectively, were lower as compared with kidney (p <
0.011). Kidney and lung VA in monkeys with adequate, but not excessive, VA stores
have not been determined; hence, interpretation of these findings is limited to
tissue retinol and retinyl ester profiles and extrapolation from other species
rather than direct comparison to "normal" values.

DOI: 10.1024/0300-9831.75.2.126 
PMID: 15929633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2676. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Jul 25;488(2):113-28.

Localization of glycine receptor alpha subunits on bipolar and amacrine cells in 
primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Haverkamp S, GrÃ¼nert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

The major inhibitory neurotransmitter glycine is used by about half of the
amacrine cells in the retina. Amacrine cells provide synaptic output to bipolar, 
ganglion, and other amacrine cells. The present study investigated whether
different bipolar and amacrine cell types in the primate retina differ with
respect to the expression of glycine receptor (GlyR) subtypes. Antibodies
specific for the alpha1, alpha2, and alpha3 subunits of the GlyR were combined
with immunohistochemical markers for bipolar and amacrine cells and applied to
vertical sections of macaque (Macaca fascicularis) and marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) retinae. For all subunits, punctate immunoreactivity was expressed in
the inner plexiform layer. The GlyRalpha2 immunoreactive (IR) puncta occur at the
highest density, followed by GlyR(alpha)3 and GlyR(alpha)1 IR puncta.
Postembedding electron microscopy showed the postsynaptic location of all
subunits. Double immunofluorescence demonstrated that the three alpha subunits
are clustered at different postsynaptic sites. Two OFF cone bipolar cell types
(flat midget and diffuse bipolar DB3), are predominantly associated with the
alpha1 subunit. Two ON bipolar cell types, the DB6 and the rod bipolar cell, are 
predominantly associated with the alpha2 subunit. The glycinergic AII amacrine
cell is presynaptic to the alpha1 subunit in the OFF-sublamina, and postsynaptic 
to the alpha2 subunit in the ON-sublamina. Another putative glycinergic cell, the
vesicular glutamate transporter 3 cell, is predominantly presynaptic to the
alpha2 subunit. The dopaminergic amacrine cell expresses the alpha3 subunit at a 
low density.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20555 
PMID: 15924342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

