

2677. Haematologica. 2005 May;90(5):625-34.

Anti-Gal-mediated targeting of human B lymphoma cells to antigen-presenting
cells: a potential method for immunotherapy using autologous tumor cells.

Manches O(1), Plumas J, Lui G, Chaperot L, Molens JP, Sotto JJ, Bensa JC, Galili 
U.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development Laboratory, EFS Rh√¥ne-Alpes, Grenoble, EA 2021,
France.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The residual tumor cells remaining after completion of
standard chemotherapy and radiation treatment in B lymphoma patients, may be
eradicated by active immunotherapy that stimulates tumor-specific T lymphocytes. 
Irradiated autologous lymphoma cells expressing tumor-associated antigens (TAA)
may serve as a potential tumor vaccine, provided that they are effectively
targeted to the antigen-presenting cells (APC). We propose exploiting the natural
anti-Gal antibody in order to target vaccinating tumor cells to APC. Anti-Gal
constitutes 1% of IgG in human serum and interacts specifically with the
alpha-gal epitope (Galalpha1-3Galphalbeta1-4GlcNAc-R).
DESIGN AND METHODS: Alpha-gal epitopes were synthesized in vitro on the membrane 
of primary lymphoma cells by using the recombinant glycosylation enzyme
alpha1,3galactosyltransferase (alpha1,3GT). Processed tumor cells were opsonized 
by purified anti-Gal antibodies and studied for uptake (phagocytosis) by APC
including monocyte-derived macrophages and dendritic cells. Cross-presentation of
tumor antigens after phagocytosis of processed MHC-I negative lymphoma cells was 
measured by activation of a tumor-specific CD8+ T-cell line.
RESULTS: We demonstrate synthesis of alpha-gal epitopes on freshly isolated B
lymphoma cells of various types following the use of the recombinant enzyme
alpha1,3GT. The subsequent binding of anti-Gal to the de novo synthesized
alphagal epitopes opsonizes these tumor cells for effective uptake by macrophages
and dendritic cells, through phagocytosis mediated by FcgammaR1 (CD64). Moreover,
anti-Gal-mediated phagocytosis resulted in cross-presentation of TAA by dendritic
cells.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that immunization with
irradiated autologous lymphoma cells processed to express alpha-gal epitopes will
result in anti-Gal-mediated, in vivo targeting of the autologous tumor vaccine to
APC.


PMID: 15921377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2678. Curr Biol. 2005 May 24;15(10):974-9.

Small nuclear RNAs encoded by Herpesvirus saimiri upregulate the expression of
genes linked to T cell activation in virally transformed T cells.

Cook HL(1), Lytle JR, Mischo HE, Li MJ, Rossi JJ, Silva DP, Desrosiers RC, Steitz
JA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular Biophysics and
Biochemistry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.

Seven small nuclear RNAs of the Sm class are encoded by Herpesvirus saimiri
(HVS), a gamma Herpesvirus that causes aggressive T cell leukemias and lymphomas 
in New World primates and efficiently transforms T cells in vitro. The
Herpesvirus saimiri U RNAs (HSURs) are the most abundant viral transcripts in
HVS-transformed, latently infected T cells but are not required for viral
replication or transformation in vitro. We have compared marmoset T cells
transformed with wild-type or a mutant HVS lacking the most highly conserved
HSURs, HSURs 1 and 2. Microarray and Northern analyses reveal that HSUR 1 and 2
expression correlates with significant increases in a small number of host mRNAs,
including the T cell-receptor beta and gamma chains, the T cell and natural
killer (NK) cell-surface receptors CD52 and DAP10, and intracellular
proteins--SKAP55, granulysin, and NKG7--linked to T cell and NK cell activation. 
Upregulation of three of these transcripts was rescued after transduction of
deletion-mutant-HVS-transformed cells with a lentiviral vector carrying HSURs 1
and 2. These changes indicate an unexpected role for the HSURs in regulating a
remarkably defined and physiologically relevant set of host targets involved in
the activation of virally transformed T cells during latency.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2005.04.034 
PMID: 15916956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

