

2678. Curr Biol. 2005 May 24;15(10):974-9.

Small nuclear RNAs encoded by Herpesvirus saimiri upregulate the expression of
genes linked to T cell activation in virally transformed T cells.

Cook HL(1), Lytle JR, Mischo HE, Li MJ, Rossi JJ, Silva DP, Desrosiers RC, Steitz
JA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular Biophysics and
Biochemistry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.

Seven small nuclear RNAs of the Sm class are encoded by Herpesvirus saimiri
(HVS), a gamma Herpesvirus that causes aggressive T cell leukemias and lymphomas 
in New World primates and efficiently transforms T cells in vitro. The
Herpesvirus saimiri U RNAs (HSURs) are the most abundant viral transcripts in
HVS-transformed, latently infected T cells but are not required for viral
replication or transformation in vitro. We have compared marmoset T cells
transformed with wild-type or a mutant HVS lacking the most highly conserved
HSURs, HSURs 1 and 2. Microarray and Northern analyses reveal that HSUR 1 and 2
expression correlates with significant increases in a small number of host mRNAs,
including the T cell-receptor beta and gamma chains, the T cell and natural
killer (NK) cell-surface receptors CD52 and DAP10, and intracellular
proteins--SKAP55, granulysin, and NKG7--linked to T cell and NK cell activation. 
Upregulation of three of these transcripts was rescued after transduction of
deletion-mutant-HVS-transformed cells with a lentiviral vector carrying HSURs 1
and 2. These changes indicate an unexpected role for the HSURs in regulating a
remarkably defined and physiologically relevant set of host targets involved in
the activation of virally transformed T cells during latency.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2005.04.034 
PMID: 15916956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2679. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2005 Jun;46(6):1873-81.

The response to visual form deprivation differs with age in marmosets.

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL.

Author information: 
(1)New England College of Optometry, Boston, MA 02115, USA. troilod@neco.edu

PURPOSE: To characterize the effects of visual form deprivation by diffuser in
marmoset monkey eyes across a range of ages.
METHODS: Twenty-four common marmosets were grouped by onset of deprivation (group
1: 0-39 days, n = 6; group 2: 40-99 days, n = 10; and group 3: 100-200 days, n = 
8). Monocular form deprivation was induced with a white translucent diffuser worn
for 28 to 88 days (mean durations: group 1, 32 days; group 2, 56 days; and group 
3, 51 days). Refractive state, corneal curvature, and vitreous chamber depth were
measured after cycloplegia. Both experimental and control eyes were measured
multiple times before, during, and after the visual deprivation period.
RESULTS: Marmosets in all age groups tested were susceptible to visual form
deprivation myopia; however, the response to form deprivation was variable and
included a majority with axial myopia (n = 15), several nonresponders (n = 4), a 
single late responder (axial myopia after the end of deprivation period), and
several axial hyperopes (n = 4). For all animals that responded with axial
myopia, the increase in vitreous chamber depth and myopia was inversely
proportional to the age of onset of deprivation (ANOVA, P < 0.05). After the end 
of the period of deprivation, recovery from myopia by reduction of the axial
growth rate was observed in three animals from group 1 and three animals from
group 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Form deprivation by diffusers disrupted emmetropization in marmosets
over a range of ages. The responses varied among individuals and with age,
suggesting that the maturity of the eye may influence the response to visual
signals responsible for form deprivation myopia and perhaps emmetropization.
Recovery from diffuser-induced form deprivation myopia was apparent in some
animals, in contrast to that reported for visual deprivation by lid-suturing, and
appears more prevalent in the younger animals.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.04-1422 
PMCID: PMC1913220
PMID: 15914598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

