

2679. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2005 Jun;46(6):1873-81.

The response to visual form deprivation differs with age in marmosets.

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL.

Author information: 
(1)New England College of Optometry, Boston, MA 02115, USA. troilod@neco.edu

PURPOSE: To characterize the effects of visual form deprivation by diffuser in
marmoset monkey eyes across a range of ages.
METHODS: Twenty-four common marmosets were grouped by onset of deprivation (group
1: 0-39 days, n = 6; group 2: 40-99 days, n = 10; and group 3: 100-200 days, n = 
8). Monocular form deprivation was induced with a white translucent diffuser worn
for 28 to 88 days (mean durations: group 1, 32 days; group 2, 56 days; and group 
3, 51 days). Refractive state, corneal curvature, and vitreous chamber depth were
measured after cycloplegia. Both experimental and control eyes were measured
multiple times before, during, and after the visual deprivation period.
RESULTS: Marmosets in all age groups tested were susceptible to visual form
deprivation myopia; however, the response to form deprivation was variable and
included a majority with axial myopia (n = 15), several nonresponders (n = 4), a 
single late responder (axial myopia after the end of deprivation period), and
several axial hyperopes (n = 4). For all animals that responded with axial
myopia, the increase in vitreous chamber depth and myopia was inversely
proportional to the age of onset of deprivation (ANOVA, P < 0.05). After the end 
of the period of deprivation, recovery from myopia by reduction of the axial
growth rate was observed in three animals from group 1 and three animals from
group 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Form deprivation by diffusers disrupted emmetropization in marmosets
over a range of ages. The responses varied among individuals and with age,
suggesting that the maturity of the eye may influence the response to visual
signals responsible for form deprivation myopia and perhaps emmetropization.
Recovery from diffuser-induced form deprivation myopia was apparent in some
animals, in contrast to that reported for visual deprivation by lid-suturing, and
appears more prevalent in the younger animals.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.04-1422 
PMCID: PMC1913220
PMID: 15914598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2680. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2005 Jul;285(1):619-27.

Distribution across cortical areas of neurons projecting to the superior
colliculus in new world monkeys.

Collins CE(1), Lyon DC, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA. christine.collins@vanderbilt.edu

Surprisingly little is known about the proportions of projections of different
areas and regions of neocortex to the superior colliculus in primates. To obtain 
an overview of such projection patterns, we placed a total of 10 injections of
retrograde tracers in the superior colliculus of three New World monkeys
(Callithrix, Callicebus, and Aotus). Because cortex was flattened and cut
parallel to the surface, labeled corticotectal neurons could be accurately
located relative to architectonic boundaries and surface features. While there
was variability across cases and injection sites, the summed results clearly
support several conclusions. One, three well-defined visual areas, V1 (18%), V2
(14%), and MT (11%), contributed nearly half of the total of labeled cells. Two, 
several other visual areas (V3, DL, DM, and FST) that are early in the processing
hierarchy provided another fifth of the total. Three, inferior temporal visual
areas of the ventral stream provided only minor projections. Four, visuomotor
fields (FEF, FV, cortex in the region of SEF, and posterior parietal cortex)
contained less than 10% of the labeled neurons. Five, few labeled neurons were in
auditory or somatosensory areas. The results indicate that cortical inputs to the
superior colliculus originate predominantly from early visual areas rather than
from multimodal or visuomotor areas.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20207 
PMID: 15912524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

