

268. Curr Biol. 2020 Nov 2;30(21):4276-4283.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.08.019. Epub
2020 Sep 3.

Theta Synchronization of Phonatory and Articulatory Systems in Marmoset Monkey
Vocal Production.

Risueno-Segovia C(1), Hage SR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Social Communication, Department of Otolaryngology, Head and
Neck Surgery, Hearing Research Centre, University of Tübingen Medical Center,
Elfriede-Aulhorn-Str. 5, 72076 Tübingen, Germany; Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076
Tübingen, Germany; Graduate School of Neural & Behavioural Sciences -
International Max Planck Research School, University of Tübingen, Österberg-Str. 
3, 72074 Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Neurobiology of Social Communication, Department of Otolaryngology, Head and
Neck Surgery, Hearing Research Centre, University of Tübingen Medical Center,
Elfriede-Aulhorn-Str. 5, 72076 Tübingen, Germany; Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076
Tübingen, Germany. Electronic address: steffen.hage@uni-tuebingen.de.

Human speech shares a 3-8-Hz theta rhythm across all languages [1-3]. According
to the frame/content theory of speech evolution, this rhythm corresponds to
syllabic rates derived from natural mandibular-associated oscillations [4]. The
underlying pattern originates from oscillatory movements of articulatory muscles 
[4, 5] tightly linked to periodic vocal fold vibrations [4, 6, 7]. Such
phono-articulatory rhythms have been proposed as one of the crucial
preadaptations for human speech evolution [3, 8, 9]. However, the evolutionary
link in phono-articulatory rhythmicity between vertebrate vocalization and human 
speech remains unclear. From the phonatory perspective, theta oscillations might 
be phylogenetically preserved throughout all vertebrate clades [10-12]. From the 
articulatory perspective, theta oscillations are present in non-vocal lip
smacking [1, 13, 14], teeth chattering [15], vocal lip smacking [16], and clicks 
and faux-speech [17] in non-human primates, potential evolutionary precursors for
speech rhythmicity [1, 13]. Notably, a universal phono-articulatory rhythmicity
similar to that in human speech is considered to be absent in non-human primate
vocalizations, typically produced with sound modulations lacking concomitant
articulatory movements [1, 9, 18]. Here, we challenge this view by investigating 
the coupling of phonatory and articulatory systems in marmoset vocalizations.
Using quantitative measures of acoustic call structure, e.g., amplitude envelope,
and call-associated articulatory movements, i.e., inter-lip distance, we show
that marmosets display speech-like bi-motor rhythmicity. These oscillations are
synchronized and phase locked at theta rhythms. Our findings suggest that
oscillatory rhythms underlying speech production evolved early in the primate
lineage, identifying marmosets as a suitable animal model to decipher the
evolutionary and neural basis of coupled phono-articulatory movements.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.08.019 
PMID: 32888481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.


269. J Vet Pharmacol Ther. 2021 Jan;44(1):18-27. doi: 10.1111/jvp.12905. Epub 2020 Sep
2.

Pharmacokinetics and effects on clinical and physiological parameters following a
single bolus dose of propofol in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Muta K(1), Miyabe-Nishiwaki T(2), Masui K(3), Yajima I(4), Iizuka T(1), Kaneko
A(2), Nishimura R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Veterinary Surgery, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life
Sciences, the University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Center for Human Evolution Modeling Research, Primate Research Institute,
Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi, Japan.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Showa University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, National Defense Medical College Hospital, Tokorozawa,
Saitama, Japan.

The objectives of this study were (a) to establish a population pharmacokinetic
model and (b) to investigate the clinical and physiological effects of a single
bolus dose of propofol in common marmosets. In Study 1, pharmacokinetic analysis 
was performed in six marmosets under sevoflurane anaesthesia. 8 mg/kg of propofol
was administrated at a rate of 4 mg kg-1  min-1 . Blood samples were collected 2,
5, 15, 30, 60, 90, 120 or 180 min after starting propofol administration. Plasma 
concentration was measured, and population pharmacokinetic modelling was
performed. A two-compartment model was selected as the final model. The
population pharmacokinetic parameters were as follows: V1  = 1.14 L, V2  = 77.6
L, CL1  = 0.00182 L/min, CL2  = 0.0461 L/min. In Study 2, clinical and
physiological parameters were assessed and recorded every 2 min after 12 mg/kg of
propofol was administrated at a rate of 4 mg kg-1  min-1 . Immobilization was
sustained for 5 min following propofol administration without apparent
bradycardia. While combination of propofol and sevoflurane caused apnoea in Study
1, apnoea was not observed following single administration of propofol in Study
2. These data provide bases for further investigation on intravenous anaesthesia 
using propofol in common marmosets.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jvp.12905 
PMID: 32880998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

