

2685. Lab Anim. 2005 Apr;39(2):162-8.

A simple method for assessing muscle function in common marmosets.

Stevens DJ(1), Hornby RJ, Cook DL, Griffiths GD, Scott EA, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Department, Dstl Porton Down, Salisbury SP4 0JQ, UK.
DSTEVENS@dstl.gov.uk

A novel method of assessing muscle function in the common marmoset was developed 
as part of a multidisciplinary long-term study. The method involved home cage
presentation of a weight-pulling task. Over a 4-5 month period, 38 of 42 animals 
were successfully trained to displace weights of up to 920 g (mean 612+/-20 g).
Performance, following initial training, was stable and independent of gender or 
body weight.

DOI: 10.1258/0023677053739855 
PMID: 15901359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2686. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2005 May-Jun;76(3):125-34.

Colour discrimination in the black-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix penicillata): 
ecological implications.

Pessoa DM(1), Cunha JF, Tomaz C, Pessoa VF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences and Behaviour and Primate Centre,University of
Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.

The dietary diversity of marmosets is substantial, which may reflect differences 
in their colour vision. This study examined the colour discrimination ability of 
a gummivore/insectivore callitrichid, Callithrix penicillata, which inhabits the 
Brazilian cerrado (bush savanna). A series of ecologically relevant tasks,
involving a behavioural paradigm of discrimination learning in semi-natural
conditions and the usage of ecologically relevant stimuli, was executed. Three
marmosets, 2 males and a female, behaved like human dichromats, showing an
impaired performance when orange and green stimuli had to be discriminated. In
contrast, 2 females resembled human trichromats, discriminating those kinds of
pairs. Our data suggest that Callithrix penicillata presents a polymorphic
trichromacy, with dichromatic males and dichromatic or trichromatic females.

DOI: 10.1159/000084375 
PMID: 15900100  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

