

2690. J Neuroimmunol. 2005 Jun;163(1-2):31-9. Epub 2005 Apr 9.

Treatment with chimeric anti-human CD40 antibody suppresses MRI-detectable
inflammation and enlargement of pre-existing brain lesions in common marmosets
affected by MOG-induced EAE.

't Hart BA(1), Blezer EL, Brok HP, Boon L, de Boer M, Bauer J, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Center, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Common marmosets, a Neotropical monkey species, are protected against clinical
and neuropathological consequences of experimentally induced autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) by prophylactic treatment with ch5D12, a humanized
antagonist antibody against human CD40. In the current study we have tested
whether ch5D12 acts therapeutically against the enlargement and inflammatory
activity of existing (brain) white matter lesions using serial magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI). The results show in all PBS treated monkeys (n=4) a rapid
enlargement of T2 lesions together with an increment of the T2 signal intensity
due to inflammatory edema. Treatment with ch5D12 delayed the enlargement of T2
lesions in 2 out of 3 tested monkeys while in 3 out of 3 monkeys the T2 signal
increment of lesions was suppressed. In conjunction with previously published
data on the clinical benefit of anti-CD40 treatment in the marmoset EAE model,
the current findings support antibody-mediated blockade of CD40 interaction with 
its ligand CD154 as a potential treatment of MS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2005.02.005 
PMID: 15885306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2691. Behav Brain Res. 2005 May 28;160(2):267-76. Epub 2005 Jan 11.

Postural changes after lesions of the substantia nigra pars reticulata in
hemiparkinsonian monkeys.

Henderson JM(1), Stanic D, Tomas D, Patch J, Horne MK, Bourke D, Finkelstein DI.

Author information: 
(1)Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, Australia. jasmine@med.usyd.edu.au

Current neurosurgical strategies target overactive brain regions including the
subthalamic nucleus, globus pallidus and thalamus to control various symptoms of 
Parkinson's disease. Subthalamotomy improves akinesia and can induce postural
deficits in both parkinsonian humans and animals, pallidotomy improves limb
dyskinesia and more variably, distal bradykinesia whilst thalamotomy improves
tremor. Because the SNr also becomes overactive in PD and there are few surgical 
studies in parkinsonian primates, we therefore evaluated the effects of lesioning
the SNr in hemiparkinsonian marmosets to establish the effects on symptomatology.
Nine monkeys received unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions. Seven weeks 
later, four received kainic acid lesions of the SNr. Behavioural tests were
performed prior to 6-OHDA surgery and then fortnightly for 14 weeks. Unilateral
6-OHDA lesions induced ipsilateral postural bias, ipsilateral rotation after
amphetamine injection and bradykinesia. Whilst, SNr lesions significantly altered
the direction of head position and amphetamine-induced rotation relative to
6-OHDA lesions, there was no improvement in 6-OHDA-induced reaching deficits or
sensorimotor neglect. Unbiased quantitation of the nigral lesions showed on
average 88% loss of dopaminergic neurons after 6-OHDA lesions and 77% loss of
non-dopaminergic neurons after SNr lesions. Our results demonstrate that the SNr 
is important in body orientation changes in parkinsonism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2004.12.008 
PMID: 15863223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

