

2692. Brain Res. 2005 May 10;1043(1-2):42-7.

Retinal projections to the midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Cavalcante JS(1), Costa MS, Santee UR, Britto LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, 59072-970 Natal, RN, Brazil. jsc@cb.ufrn.br

In this study, we report the identification of a hitherto not reported direct
retinal projection to midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei in the marmoset
brain. After unilateral intravitreal injections of cholera toxin subunit B (CTb),
anterogradely transported CTb-immunoreactive fibers and presumptive terminals
were seen in the following thalamic midline nuclei: paraventricular, rhomboid,
interanteromedial, and reuniens, and thalamic intralaminar nuclei: central
medial, central lateral, central dorsal, and parafascicular. Studies employing
sensitive tracers in other primate species are needed in order to verify the
possible universality of these projections. Some of the possible functional
correlates of the present data are briefly discussed. The present results may
contribute to the elucidation of the anatomical substrate of the functionally
demonstrated involvement of this midline/intralaminar thalamic nuclear complex in
several domains that include arousal and awareness, besides specific cognitive,
sensory, and motor functions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2005.02.035 
PMID: 15862516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2693. J Med Primatol. 2005 Jun;34(3):156-62.

Comparison between sex and age class on some physiological, thermal, and
hematological indices of the cerrado's marmoset (Callithrix penicillata).

Boere V(1), Pinheiro EC, de Oliveira e Silva I, Paludo GR, Canale G, Pianta T,
Welker A, Rocha-de-Moura RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, Primate Center,
University of Brasilia, DF 709 10900 Brasilia, Brazil. vanner@unb.br

There are few papers about physiological indices in Callithrix penicillata, an
increasing primate model in biomedicine. We investigated levels of plasmatic
cortisol, plasmatic glucose, free fatty acids, blood cells, tympanic temperature,
rectal temperature in C. penicllata, under a fast restraint. Measures of body and
weight were accomplished. Males and females were not different regarding any
measurements. Body measurements indicated differences between adults and
juveniles. Adults showed higher hematocrit and a tendency for higher free fatty
acids than juveniles. Right tympanic temperature was higher in adults than
juveniles. This result suggests a higher reaction metabolism in adults than
juveniles under a restraint stress. Due to the short-time of collecting the data,
plasmatic cortisol did not influence physiological parameters. Therefore, we
suggest that present results could be considered referential values of C.
penicillata physiology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2005.00101.x 
PMID: 15860125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

