

2707. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Feb;21(4):841-54.

A modified MPTP treatment regime produces reproducible partial nigrostriatal
lesions in common marmosets.

Iravani MM(1), Syed E, Jackson MJ, Johnston LC, Smith LA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Standard MPTP treatment regimens in primates result in > 85% destruction of
nigral dopaminergic neurons and the onset of marked motor deficits that respond
to known symptomatic treatments for Parkinson's disease (PD). The extent of
nigral degeneration reflects the late stages of PD rather than events occurring
at its onset. We report on a modified MPTP treatment regimen that causes nigral
dopaminergic degeneration in common marmosets equivalent to that occurring at the
time of initiation of motor symptoms in man. Subcutaneous administration of MPTP 
1 mg/kg for 3 consecutive days caused a reproducible 60% loss of nigral tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells, which occurred mainly in the
calbindin-D(28k)-poor nigrosomes with a similar loss of TH-immunoreactivity
(TH-ir) in the caudate nucleus and the putamen. The animals showed obvious motor 
abnormalities with reduced bursts of activity and the onset of motor disability. 
However, the loss of striatal terminals did not reflect early PD because a
greater loss of TH-ir occurred in the caudate nucleus than in the putamen and a
marked reduction in TH-ir occurred in striatal patches compared to the matrix.
Examination of striatal fibres following a partial MPTP lesion showed a
conspicuous increase in the number and the diameter of large branching fibres in 
the putaminal and to some extent caudatal matrix, pointing to a possible
compensatory sprouting of dopaminergic terminals. In addition, these partially
lesioned animals did not respond to acute treatment with L-DOPA. This primate
partial lesions model may be useful for examining potential neuroprotective or
neurorestorative agents for PD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.03915.x 
PMID: 15787691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2708. Eur J Pharmacol. 2005 Mar 21;511(1):43-52.

Serotonin1A-receptor antagonism blocks psychostimulant properties of
diethylpropion in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Mello EL Jr(1), Maior RS, Carey RJ, Huston JP, Tomaz C, MÃ¼ller CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Diethylpropion (1-phenyl-2-diethylamine-1-propanone hydrochloride) is a stimulant
drug with reinforcing properties that is used to treat obesity in humans. While
the anorectic properties of diethylpropion are mediated by a noradrenergic
mechanism, stimulant properties depend on its effects on the serotonergic (5-HT) 
and/or dopaminergic systems. In this study we investigated the role of the
5-HT1A-receptor in the acute behavioral effects of diethylpropion in marmosets
(Callithrix penicillata). Animals were pretreated with the selective
5-HT1A-receptor antagonist,
N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)
cyclohexane-carboxamide trihydrochloride (WAY 100635; 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) 
or saline (i.p.) and received a treatment with diethylpropion (10 mg/kg, i.p) or 
saline (i.p.). Diethylpropion induced an increase in locomotor activity in 60% of
the monkeys, which were classified as diethylpropion sensitive, but did not
affect locomotion in 40% of the monkeys (diethylpropion insensitive). Sensitivity
analysis revealed two types of responders to diethylpropion. In the sensitive
animals (type A) diethylpropion increased locomotor activity and anxiogenic-like 
behavior, but decreased bodycare activities. In the insensitive animals (type B) 
diethylpropion did not affect locomotor and bodycare activity after
diethylpropion, but led to a strong increase in anxiogenic-like behavioral
responses. Selective 5-HT1A-receptor antagonism modulated the acute
diethylpropion effects responder type specifically. In the sensitive (type A)
monkeys WAY 100635 blocked the diethylpropion-induced increase in locomotor
activity, while not affecting anxiogenic-like behavioral responses or the
suppression of bodycare activities. In the insensitive monkeys, WAY 100635 had no
effect on locomotor activity after diethylpropion, but blocked diethylpropion
effects on some anxiogenic-like behavioral responses. In conclusion, these
results suggest an essential contribution of the 5-HT1A-receptor to the stimulant
effects of diethylpropion, which is responder type specific. It also suggests the
5-HT1A-receptor to be a source of the interindividual variance in the acute
behavioral response to the stimulant diethylpropion in monkeys.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2005.01.037 
PMID: 15777778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

