

2708. Eur J Pharmacol. 2005 Mar 21;511(1):43-52.

Serotonin1A-receptor antagonism blocks psychostimulant properties of
diethylpropion in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Mello EL Jr(1), Maior RS, Carey RJ, Huston JP, Tomaz C, MÃ¼ller CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Diethylpropion (1-phenyl-2-diethylamine-1-propanone hydrochloride) is a stimulant
drug with reinforcing properties that is used to treat obesity in humans. While
the anorectic properties of diethylpropion are mediated by a noradrenergic
mechanism, stimulant properties depend on its effects on the serotonergic (5-HT) 
and/or dopaminergic systems. In this study we investigated the role of the
5-HT1A-receptor in the acute behavioral effects of diethylpropion in marmosets
(Callithrix penicillata). Animals were pretreated with the selective
5-HT1A-receptor antagonist,
N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)
cyclohexane-carboxamide trihydrochloride (WAY 100635; 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) 
or saline (i.p.) and received a treatment with diethylpropion (10 mg/kg, i.p) or 
saline (i.p.). Diethylpropion induced an increase in locomotor activity in 60% of
the monkeys, which were classified as diethylpropion sensitive, but did not
affect locomotion in 40% of the monkeys (diethylpropion insensitive). Sensitivity
analysis revealed two types of responders to diethylpropion. In the sensitive
animals (type A) diethylpropion increased locomotor activity and anxiogenic-like 
behavior, but decreased bodycare activities. In the insensitive animals (type B) 
diethylpropion did not affect locomotor and bodycare activity after
diethylpropion, but led to a strong increase in anxiogenic-like behavioral
responses. Selective 5-HT1A-receptor antagonism modulated the acute
diethylpropion effects responder type specifically. In the sensitive (type A)
monkeys WAY 100635 blocked the diethylpropion-induced increase in locomotor
activity, while not affecting anxiogenic-like behavioral responses or the
suppression of bodycare activities. In the insensitive monkeys, WAY 100635 had no
effect on locomotor activity after diethylpropion, but blocked diethylpropion
effects on some anxiogenic-like behavioral responses. In conclusion, these
results suggest an essential contribution of the 5-HT1A-receptor to the stimulant
effects of diethylpropion, which is responder type specific. It also suggests the
5-HT1A-receptor to be a source of the interindividual variance in the acute
behavioral response to the stimulant diethylpropion in monkeys.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2005.01.037 
PMID: 15777778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2709. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Apr 15;80(2):172-81.

Establishment of graded spinal cord injury model in a nonhuman primate: the
common marmoset.

Iwanami A(1), Yamane J, Katoh H, Nakamura M, Momoshima S, Ishii H, Tanioka Y,
Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Most previous studies on spinal cord injury (SCI) have used rodent models. Direct
extrapolation of the results obtained in rodents to clinical cases is difficult, 
however, because of neurofunctional and anatomic differences between rodents and 
primates. In the present study, the development of histopathologic changes and
functional deficits were assessed quantitatively after mild, moderate, and severe
spinal cord contusive injuries in common marmosets. Contusive SCI was induced by 
dropping one of three different weights (15, 17, or 20 g) at the C5 level from a 
height of 50 mm. Serial magnetic resonance images showed significant differences 
in the intramedullary T1 low signal and T2 high signal areas among the three
groups. Quantitative histologic analyses revealed that the number of motor
neurons, the myelinated areas, and the amounts of corticospinal tract fibers
decreased significantly as the injury increased in severity. Motor functions were
evaluated using the following tests: original behavioral scoring scale,
measurements of spontaneous motor activity, bar grip test, and cage-climbing
test. Significant differences in all test results were observed among the three
groups. Spontaneous motor activities at 10 weeks after injury were closely
correlated with the residual myelinated area at the lesion epicenter. The
establishment of a reliable nonhuman primate model for SCI with objective
functional evaluation methods should become an essential tool for future SCI
treatment studies. Quantitative behavioral and histopathologic analyses enabled
three distinct grades of injury severity (15-g, 17-g, and 20-g groups) to be
characterized with heavier weights producing more serious injuries, and
relatively constant behavioral and histopathologic outcomes.
