

271. Vet Parasitol Reg Stud Reports. 2020 Jul;21:100447. doi:
10.1016/j.vprsr.2020.100447. Epub 2020 Aug 12.

Detection of Toxoplasma gondii DNA in heart tissue from common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) monitored for yellow fever and rabies in Pernambuco state,
Northeastern of Brazil.

Melo RPB(1), Oliveira PRF(2), Albuquerque PPF(2), Barretto MLM(2), Moura GHF(2), 
Oliveira AAF(2), Mota RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco,
Rua Dom Manuel de Medeiros, Dois Irmãos, Recife, Pernambuco 52171-900, Brazil.
Electronic address: renatapbm@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco,
Rua Dom Manuel de Medeiros, Dois Irmãos, Recife, Pernambuco 52171-900, Brazil.

There is limited available information concerning the prevalence of Toxoplasma
gondii in noncaptive monkeys. Also, New World monkeys (NWM) are highly
susceptible to toxoplasmosis, which is a conservation concern. This study aimed
to investigate apicomplexan parasites in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
collected for yellow fever and rabies surveillance program in Northeastern region
of Brazil. Heart fragments of 39 free-ranging common marmosets were analyzed for 
the presence of the 18S rDNA gene of apicomplexan parasites by nested PCR.
Positive samples were sequenced. T. gondii DNA was detected in 17.9% (7/39) of
the analyzed animals. This study is the first report on T. gondii in Callithrix
jacchus in Brazil. These findings should be an alert for wildlife conservation
institutions, as high susceptibility and mortality were reported for captive NWM.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vprsr.2020.100447 
PMID: 32862888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


272. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2020 Oct;127(10):1343-1358. doi:
10.1007/s00702-020-02247-2. Epub 2020 Aug 29.

The MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease: proposed efficacy
thresholds that may potentially predict successful clinical trial results.

Beaudry F(1), Huot P(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animal du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(3)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(4)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmoset 
has been used extensively to model Parkinson's disease,
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and, more recently,
dopaminergic psychosis. Whereas several experimental drugs have been tested in
this primate, many of which subsequently underwent clinical trials, efficacy
thresholds in the marmoset that would predict efficacy in the clinic are lacking.
Here, we aimed to determine such efficacy end points that would be indicative of 
likely efficacy in clinical studies. To do so, we used the evidence-based
medicine reviews published by the International Parkinson and Movement Disorder
Society (IPMDS) to select drugs that were rated as clinically efficacious, likely
efficacious or not efficacious for the treatment of parkinsonism, dyskinesia and 
psychosis. We then reviewed the literature in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset and
identified articles reporting the effects of drugs that were included in the
IPMDS recommendations, following which we estimated efficacy thresholds in the
marmoset that would predict efficacy at the clinical level. We propose that, when
drugs are administered as monotherapy, ≥ 50% reduction of global parkinsonism may
be necessary to predict the possibility of clinical efficacy. As adjunct to a low
dose of L-DOPA, we propose that an additional reduction of global
parkinsonism ≥ 25% might predict clinical efficacy. As adjunct to an optimal dose
of L-DOPA, we propose that additional anti-parkinsonian benefit ≥ 20%, with
global parkinsonism as the end point, might predict clinical efficacy. For the
treatment of dyskinesia, we suggest that the predictability threshold be set
at ≥ 25% reduction of peak dose dyskinesia, while we believe that this threshold 
should be > 50% reduction of peak dose psychosis-like behaviours for
psychosis-related end points. This article represents the first step in
determining what efficacy might be necessary to achieve in pre-clinical studies
in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset prior to confidently advancing drugs to clinical
trials. We hope that it will help in the drug discovery and development process, 
notably by avoiding exposing patients to drugs that have little probability of
clinical efficacy based upon pre-clinical experiments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-020-02247-2 
PMID: 32860561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

