

2711. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Jul;94(1):83-104. Epub 2005 Mar 16.

Long-lasting modulation by stimulus context in primate auditory cortex.

Bartlett EL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
720 Rutland Avenue, Traylor 412, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland
21205, USA. bartlett@bme.jhu.edu

A sound embedded in an acoustic stream cannot be unambiguously segmented and
identified without reference to its stimulus context. To understand the role of
stimulus context in cortical processing, we investigated the responses of
auditory cortical neurons to 2-sound sequences in awake marmosets, with a focus
on stimulus properties other than carrier frequency. Both suppressive and
facilitatory modulations of cortical responses were observed by using
combinations of modulated tone and noise stimuli. The main findings are as
follows. 1) Preceding stimuli could suppress or facilitate responses to
succeeding stimuli for durations >1 s. These long-lasting effects were dependent 
on the duration, sound level, and modulation parameters of the preceding
stimulus, in addition to the carrier frequency. They occurred regardless of
whether the 2 stimuli were separated by a silent interval. 2) Suppression was
often tuned such that preceding stimuli whose parameters were similar to
succeeding stimuli produced the strongest suppression. However, the responses of 
many units could be suppressed, although often weaker, even when the 2 stimuli
were dissimilar. In some cases, only a dissimilar preceding stimulus produced
suppression in the responses to the succeeding stimulus. 3) In contrast to
suppression, facilitation of responses to succeeding stimuli by the preceding
stimulus was usually strongest when the 2 stimuli were dissimilar. 4) There was
no clear correlation between the firing rate evoked by the preceding stimulus and
the change in the firing rate evoked by the succeeding stimulus, indicating that 
the observed suppression was not simply a result of habituation or spike
adaptation. These results demonstrate that persistent modulations of the
responses of an auditory cortical neuron to a given stimulus can be induced by
preceding stimuli. Decreases or increases of responses to the succeeding stimuli 
are dependent on the spectral, temporal, and intensity properties of the
preceding stimulus. This indicates that cortical auditory responses to a sound
are not static, but instead depend on the stimulus context in a stimulus-specific
manner. The long-lasting impact of stimulus context and the prevalence of
facilitation suggest that such cortical response properties are important for
auditory processing beyond forward masking, such as for auditory streaming and
segregation.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01124.2004 
PMID: 15772236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2712. Chem Biol Interact. 2005 Feb 28;152(1):1-12.

Molecular cloning and functional analysis of cytochrome P450 1A2 from Japanese
monkey liver: comparison with marmoset cytochrome P450 1A2.

Narimatsu S(1), Oda M, Hichiya H, Isobe T, Asaoka K, Hanioka N, Yamano S, Shinoda
S, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Health Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama
University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.
shizuo@pharm.okayama-u.ac.jp

A cDNA encoding a novel cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) was cloned from the liver of
an adult female Japanese monkey. The CYP1A2 protein was expressed in yeast cells 
and its enzymatic properties were compared with those of marmoset CYP1A2 using
ethoxyresorufin (ER) and phenacetin (PN) as substrates. The nucleotide sequence
of Japanese monkey CYP1A2 revealed 94.7, 99.5 and 93.5% identities to those of
human, cynomolgus monkey and marmoset monkey CYP1A2, respectively. Multiple amino
acid sequence alignment of Japanese monkey CYP1A2 with CYP1A2 of humans,
cynomolgus monkeys and marmosets showed that Japanese monkey CYP1A2 had 92.4,
99.0 and 91.9% identities to the human, cynomolgus monkey and marmoset enzymes,
respectively. Kinetic studies demonstrated that the enzymatic properties as ER
and PN O-deethylases were considerably different between the Japanese monkey and 
the marmoset CYP1A2. Furthermore, both of these reactions in liver microsomal
fractions from the Japanese monkey and marmoset showed biphasic kinetics. On the 
basis of the kinetic parameters, it is suggested that Japanese monkey CYP1A2 is a
high-K(m) enzyme in both ER and PN O-deethylations, whereas marmoset CYP1A2 is a 
high-K(m) and low-K(m) enzyme in ER and PN O-deethylations, respectively.
alpha-Naphthoflavone, an inhibitor of human CYP1A1 and CYP1A2, did not completely
inhibit the liver microsomal oxidations of ER and PN even at the highest
concentration (50muM), supporting the notion that CYP1A2 enzymes are not the sole
ER or PN O-deethylase in Japanese monkey and marmoset liver microsomes.
Inhibitory effects of furafylline, an inhibitor of human CYP1A2, on ER
O-deethylation by recombinant CYP1A2 enzymes were much lower than those of
alpha-naphthoflavone, but marmoset CYP1A2 was more sensitive to furafylline than 
Japanese monkey CYP1A2. These results indicate that the properties of Japanese
monkey CYP1A2 are considerably different from those of marmoset CYP1A2.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2005.01.006 
PMID: 15766918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

