

2712. Chem Biol Interact. 2005 Feb 28;152(1):1-12.

Molecular cloning and functional analysis of cytochrome P450 1A2 from Japanese
monkey liver: comparison with marmoset cytochrome P450 1A2.

Narimatsu S(1), Oda M, Hichiya H, Isobe T, Asaoka K, Hanioka N, Yamano S, Shinoda
S, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Health Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama
University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.
shizuo@pharm.okayama-u.ac.jp

A cDNA encoding a novel cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) was cloned from the liver of
an adult female Japanese monkey. The CYP1A2 protein was expressed in yeast cells 
and its enzymatic properties were compared with those of marmoset CYP1A2 using
ethoxyresorufin (ER) and phenacetin (PN) as substrates. The nucleotide sequence
of Japanese monkey CYP1A2 revealed 94.7, 99.5 and 93.5% identities to those of
human, cynomolgus monkey and marmoset monkey CYP1A2, respectively. Multiple amino
acid sequence alignment of Japanese monkey CYP1A2 with CYP1A2 of humans,
cynomolgus monkeys and marmosets showed that Japanese monkey CYP1A2 had 92.4,
99.0 and 91.9% identities to the human, cynomolgus monkey and marmoset enzymes,
respectively. Kinetic studies demonstrated that the enzymatic properties as ER
and PN O-deethylases were considerably different between the Japanese monkey and 
the marmoset CYP1A2. Furthermore, both of these reactions in liver microsomal
fractions from the Japanese monkey and marmoset showed biphasic kinetics. On the 
basis of the kinetic parameters, it is suggested that Japanese monkey CYP1A2 is a
high-K(m) enzyme in both ER and PN O-deethylations, whereas marmoset CYP1A2 is a 
high-K(m) and low-K(m) enzyme in ER and PN O-deethylations, respectively.
alpha-Naphthoflavone, an inhibitor of human CYP1A1 and CYP1A2, did not completely
inhibit the liver microsomal oxidations of ER and PN even at the highest
concentration (50muM), supporting the notion that CYP1A2 enzymes are not the sole
ER or PN O-deethylase in Japanese monkey and marmoset liver microsomes.
Inhibitory effects of furafylline, an inhibitor of human CYP1A2, on ER
O-deethylation by recombinant CYP1A2 enzymes were much lower than those of
alpha-naphthoflavone, but marmoset CYP1A2 was more sensitive to furafylline than 
Japanese monkey CYP1A2. These results indicate that the properties of Japanese
monkey CYP1A2 are considerably different from those of marmoset CYP1A2.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2005.01.006 
PMID: 15766918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2713. J Neurosci. 2005 Mar 9;25(10):2490-503.

Plasticity in primary auditory cortex of monkeys with altered vocal production.

Cheung SW(1), Nagarajan SS, Schreiner CE, Bedenbaugh PH, Wong A.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Memorial Laboratory and W. M. Keck Center for Integrative
Neuroscience, Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143-0342, USA. scheung@ohns.ucsf.edu

Response properties of primary auditory cortical neurons in the adult common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) were modified by extensive exposure to
altered vocalizations that were self-generated and rehearsed frequently. A
laryngeal apparatus modification procedure permanently lowered the frequency
content of the native twitter call, a complex communication vocalization
consisting of a series of frequency modulation (FM) sweeps. Monkeys vocalized
shortly after this procedure and maintained voicing efforts until physiological
evaluation 5-15 months later. The altered twitter calls improved over time, with 
FM sweeps approaching but never reaching the normal spectral range. Neurons with 
characteristic frequencies <4.3 kHz that had been weakly activated by native
twitter calls were recruited to encode self-uttered altered twitter
vocalizations. These neurons showed a decrease in response magnitude and an
increase in temporal dispersion of response timing to twitter call and parametric
FM stimuli but a normal response profile to pure tone stimuli. Tonotopic maps in 
voice-modified monkeys were not distorted. These findings suggest a previously
unrecognized form of cortical plasticity that is specific to higher-order
processes involved in the discrimination of more complex sounds, such as
species-specific vocalizations.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5289-04.2005 
PMCID: PMC4060626
PMID: 15758157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

