

2718. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2005 Jan;72(1):13-20.

Experimental leptospirosis in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus): a new model 
for studies of severe pulmonary leptospirosis.

Pereira MM(1), Da Silva JJ, Pinto MA, Da Silva MF, Machado MP, Lenzi HL,
Marchevsky RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Oswaldo Cruz Institute/FIOCRUZ, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil. mpereira@ioc.fiocruz.br

Experimental infection of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with Leptospira
interrogans serovar Copenhageni showed microscopic patterns of tissue reactions
comparable to those seen in the severe forms of human leptospirosis, including
intra-alveolar hemorrhage. The most impressive microscopic changes were seen in
the lung and kidney of animals killed at days 6 and 12 after inoculation. There
were extensive and irregular areas of hemorrhage predominating around main
bronchial branches or diffusely spread to the pulmonary parenchyma, as well as
severe tubulointerstitial nephritis. Antibody response detected by the
microscopic agglutination test was quantitatively similar to those seen in humans
and paralleled severity of tissue lesions. The distribution of leptospires or
antigenic debris in infected tissues was observed by immunofluorescence and
confocal laser scanning microscopy. Large numbers of typical leptospires were
seen in the lumen of proximal renal tubules. Positive reactions showing antigenic
debris were closely associated with sites of tissue damage.


PMID: 15728860  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2719. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2005 Jan-Feb;76(1):10-20.

Two breeding females within free-living groups may not always indicate polygyny: 
alternative subordinate female strategies in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Arruda MF(1), Ara√∫jo A, Sousa MB, Albuquerque FS, Albuquerque AC, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Rio
Grande do Norte, Brazil. arruda@cb.ufrn.br

The mating system of callitrichids has been reported to be monogamous, polygynous
and polyandrous. In Callithrix jacchus, groups with 2 breeding females and groups
with 1 breeding female have been reported. Our purpose was to evaluate the
occurrence of occasional reproduction by subordinate females in free-ranging C.
jacchus groups characterized as monogamous. Four groups were monitored at a field
site of IBAMA-Brazil for between 20 and 72 months. We recorded the birth of 7
sets of twins to subordinate females that had never reproduced before. Sexual
activities were recorded opportunistically: dominant females copulated with only 
the resident male, while subordinates copulated with extra-group males. We
suggest these were essentially monogamous groups that occasionally had 2
reproductive females. Between-group copulations seem to be an alternative
strategy used by the subordinates. Despite the costs, there would probably be
benefits as a result of scanning for vacancies for reproductive positions in
neighbouring groups and the establishment of ties with extra-group males that
might become a reproductive partner in the future.

DOI: 10.1159/000082451 
PMID: 15711070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

