

2719. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2005 Jan-Feb;76(1):10-20.

Two breeding females within free-living groups may not always indicate polygyny: 
alternative subordinate female strategies in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Arruda MF(1), Ara√∫jo A, Sousa MB, Albuquerque FS, Albuquerque AC, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Rio
Grande do Norte, Brazil. arruda@cb.ufrn.br

The mating system of callitrichids has been reported to be monogamous, polygynous
and polyandrous. In Callithrix jacchus, groups with 2 breeding females and groups
with 1 breeding female have been reported. Our purpose was to evaluate the
occurrence of occasional reproduction by subordinate females in free-ranging C.
jacchus groups characterized as monogamous. Four groups were monitored at a field
site of IBAMA-Brazil for between 20 and 72 months. We recorded the birth of 7
sets of twins to subordinate females that had never reproduced before. Sexual
activities were recorded opportunistically: dominant females copulated with only 
the resident male, while subordinates copulated with extra-group males. We
suggest these were essentially monogamous groups that occasionally had 2
reproductive females. Between-group copulations seem to be an alternative
strategy used by the subordinates. Despite the costs, there would probably be
benefits as a result of scanning for vacancies for reproductive positions in
neighbouring groups and the establishment of ties with extra-group males that
might become a reproductive partner in the future.

DOI: 10.1159/000082451 
PMID: 15711070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2720. J Immunol. 2005 Feb 15;174(4):2353-65.

Decay-accelerating factor (CD55) is expressed by neurons in response to chronic
but not acute autoimmune central nervous system inflammation associated with
complement activation.

van Beek J(1), van Meurs M, 't Hart BA, Brok HP, Neal JW, Chatagner A, Harris CL,
Omidvar N, Morgan BP, Laman JD, Gasque P.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Inflammation Immunity Group (BIIG), Cardiff University, Cardiff, United 
Kingdom. jvbe@lundbeck.com

There is compelling evidence that a unique innate immune response in the CNS
plays a critical role in host defense and clearance of toxic cell debris.
Although complement has been implicated in neuronal impairment, axonal loss, and 
demyelination, some preliminary evidence suggests that the initial insult
consequently activates surrounding cells to signal neuroprotective activities.
Using two different models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, we
herein demonstrate selective C1q complement activation on neuron cell bodies and 
axons. Interestingly, in brains with chronic but not acute experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis, C3b opsonization of neuronal cell bodies and axons 
was consistently associated with robust neuronal expression of one of the most
effective complement regulators, decay-accelerating factor (CD55). In contrast,
levels of other complement inhibitors, complement receptor 1 (CD35), membrane
cofactor protein (CD46), and CD59 were largely unaffected on neurons and reactive
glial cells in both conditions. In vitro, we found that proinflammatory stimuli
(cytokines and sublytic doses of complement) failed to up-regulate CD55
expression on cultured IMR32 neuronal cells. Interestingly, overexpression of
GPI-anchored CD55 on IMR32 was capable of modulating raft-associated protein
kinase activities without affecting MAPK activities and neuronal apoptosis.
Critically, ectopic expression of decay-accelerating factor conferred strong
protection of neurons against complement attack (opsonization and lysis). We
conclude that increased CD55 expression by neurons may represent a key protective
signaling mechanism mobilized by brain cells to withstand complement activation
and to survive within an inflammatory site.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.174.4.2353 
PMID: 15699172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

