

2723. J Agric Food Chem. 2005 Feb 9;53(3):816-22.

Antioxidative, antimutagenic, and anticarcinogenic activities of rice bran
extracts in chemical and cell assays.

Nam SH(1), Choi SP, Kang MY, Kozukue N, Friedman M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, Ajou University, Suwon 443-749, Korea.
shnam@ajou.ac.kr

Ethanol-water (70:30 v/v) extracts from rice brans removed from seeds of two
blackish-purple pigmented (Sanhaehyanghyulla and Suwon 415) and one nonpigmented 
(Chuchung) brown rice cultivars were evaluated for antioxidative,
anti-tumor-promoting, and anticarcinogenic activities in chemical assays and in
mammalian cells (human leukemia HL-60, marmoset B lymphoblastoid B95-8, and
Chinese hamster V79 lung cells) by the following tests: inhibition of xanthine
oxidase activity; chelation of ferrous ions; reduction of potassium ferricyanide;
scavenging of superoxide anions, hydroxyl radicals, and intracellular peroxides; 
inhibition of 4-nitroquinoline N-oxide-induced mutagenesis; and inhibition of
phorbol ester-induced tumor promotion. The extracts from the pigmented rice seeds
had generally higher activities in all tests than did the extract from the
nonpigmented variety. The results suggest that brans from pigmented rice
varieties may provide a source of new natural antioxidants and anticarcinogens
and that such rice cultivars with high antioxidative potential also provide a
genetic resource for the development of new, improved rice cultivars that may
make it possible to enhance both the nutritional and medical value of rice-based 
diets.

DOI: 10.1021/jf0490293 
PMID: 15686439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2724. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Mar 7;483(2):164-91.

Resolving the organization of the New World monkey third visual complex: the
dorsal extrastriate cortex of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Rosa MG(1), Palmer SM, Gamberini M, Tweedale R, Pi√±on MC, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Clayton VIC 3800, Australia. Marcello.Rosa@med.monash.edu.au

We tested current hypotheses on the functional organization of the third visual
complex, a particularly controversial region of the primate extrastriate cortex. 
In anatomical experiments, injections of retrograde tracers were placed in the
dorsal cortex immediately rostral to the second visual area (V2) of New World
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), revealing the topography of interconnections
between the "third tier" cortex and the primary visual area (V1). The data
indicate the presence of a dorsomedial area (DM), which represents the entire
upper and lower quadrants of the visual field, and which receives strong,
topographically organized projections from the superficial layers of V1. The
visuotopic organization and boundaries of DM were confirmed by
electrophysiological recordings in the same animals and by architectural
characteristics which were distinct from those found in ventral extrastriate
cortex rostral to V2. There was no electrophysiological or histological evidence 
for a transitional area between V2 and DM. In particular, the central
representation of the upper quadrant in DM was directly adjacent to the
representation of the horizontal meridian that marks the rostral border of V2.
The present results argue in favor of the hypothesis that the third visual
complex in New World monkeys contains different areas in its dorsal and ventral
components: area DM, near the dorsal midline, and a homolog of area 19 of other
mammals, located more lateral and ventrally. The characteristics of DM suggest
that it may correspond to visual area 6 (V6) of Old World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20412 
PMID: 15678474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

