

2728. Endocr Res. 2004 Nov;30(4):753-7.

Expression of AT1-R in marmoset whole adrenal glands and adrenocortical cells in 
culture.

Bird IM(1), Pattison JC.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Labs, Department Ob/Gyn, University of Wisconsin, 7E
Meriter Hospital/Park, 202 South Park St., Madison, WI 53715, USA.
imbird@wisc.edu

The marmoset adrenal is interesting as it is developmentally similar to humans
and other primates, but in adulthood 17,20-lyase activity is very low. One
possible explanation is an altered regulation of P450c17 expression by AT1-R. We 
investigated the expression and zonal distribution of the AT1-R in marmoset
adrenal glands and adrenocortical cells in culture since it is known that AT1-R
is a regulator of P450c17 expression and activity. AT1-R was expressed strongly
in the ZG and to diminishing degrees through the remainder of the cortex. There
was negative expression in a putative ZI. Dispersed adrenocortical cells retained
AT1-R protein as detected by ICC. Cells cultured for several days and treated in 
serum-free media for 48 h maintained AT1-R expression, as measured by western.
However, at that 48 h time point, treatment with Forsk, AII, TPA, or the
combination of A+F or T+F did not appear to effect AT1-R expression. We conclude 
that marmoset adrenals express AT1-R similarly to humans and other higher
mammals, adrenocortical cells retain AT1-R expression in culture, and consistent 
with other adrenal cell culture models, AT1-R expression is not lost in response 
to agonists long term.

DOI: 10.1081/erc-200044025 
PMID: 15666821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2729. Endocr Res. 2004 Nov;30(4):737-43.

Isolation of marmoset P450c17 cDNA and gene regulation in vitro.

Pattison JC(1), Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53715, USA.

Marmosets express a fetal zone during adrenal development but fail to produce
significant amounts of C19 steroids in adulthood. It is not clear however if
P450c17 regulation is different from that in humans/rhesus or the primary
sequence is altered. To this end we isolated marmoset and rhesus adrenocortical
cells, and treated the cells with known regulators of P450c17 expression for 48
h. P450c17 protein increased with Forskolin (F) treatment, but was marginally
inhibited by AII (A) and TPA (T) alone. Combined A + F and T + F dramatically
ablated the F response. Cortisol levels (EIA) increased upon F treatment and were
inhibited by A and T. Combination of treatments partially inhibited the F-induced
response. The protein-coding region of marmoset and rhesus P450c17 cDNAs were
then isolated from adrenals using RT-PCR/TA cloning. Marmoset P450c17 shows one
amino acid deletion but otherwise shares 90.6% and 91.4% homologies with the
human and rhesus cDNA sequences, and 82.4% and 85% homologies with the human and 
rhesus predicted AA sequences, respectively. Since marmoset adrenocortical cells 
exhibit similar endocrine function to rhesus, impaired 17,20-lyase activity in
the adult marmoset adrenal may in part be due to differences in the primary
sequence.

DOI: 10.1081/erc-200044018 
PMID: 15666819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

