

273. Curr Biol. 2020 Oct 19;30(20):4047-4055.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.07.045. Epub 
2020 Aug 20.

Having Infants in the Family Group Promotes Altruistic Behavior of Marmoset
Monkeys.

Huang J(1), Cheng X(2), Zhang S(2), Chang L(2), Li X(2), Liang Z(3), Gong N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100049, China.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China; Shanghai Center for Brain Science and
Brain-Inspired Intelligence Technology, Shanghai 201210, China. Electronic
address: zliang@ion.ac.cn.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China; Shanghai Center for Brain Science and
Brain-Inspired Intelligence Technology, Shanghai 201210, China. Electronic
address: ngong@ion.ac.cn.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has attracted much attention as a useful
model for studying social behaviors [1-3]. They naturally live in a monogamous
family group and exhibit cooperative breeding [4], in which parents and older
siblings help to carry infants less than 2 months old [5-7]. Marmoset parents
also transfer foods to their offspring, a process that may help them learn the
food diet [8]. Furthermore, marmosets show spontaneous altruistic behaviors, such
as providing food to non-reciprocating and genetically unrelated individuals [9].
These social habits indicate that marmosets may be a useful non-human primate
model for studying parenting and altruistic behaviors, as well as underlying
neural mechanisms. Using a novel rescue paradigm, we found that marmoset parents 
and older siblings showed strong motivation to rescue trapped young infants but
not juvenile marmosets beyond 2 months of age, and infant calls alone could
trigger these parents' rescue behaviors. The marmoset parents showed little
rescue of each other, but young infants or infant calls could also induce such
parents' mutual rescue. Moreover, all these infant- and mate-rescue behaviors
depended on currently having young infants in the family group. Functional MRI
studies on awake adult marmosets showed that calls from young infants, but not
juvenile marmosets, elicited a large-scale activation of specific brain areas
including auditory and insular cortices, and such activation was absent in
marmosets not living with infants. Thus, such infant-induced modification of
neural activity offers a window for examining the neural basis of altruistic
behaviors in marmoset monkeys.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.07.045 
PMID: 32822603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.


274. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 1;117(35):21681-21689. doi:
10.1073/pnas.2003181117. Epub 2020 Aug 17.

Divergence of rodent and primate medial frontal cortex functional connectivity.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Hori Y(2), Gilbert KM(2), Gati JS(2), Menon RS(2)(3), Everling
S(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada; dschaeff@uwo.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada.

With the medial frontal cortex (MFC) centrally implicated in several major
neuropsychiatric disorders, it is critical to understand the extent to which MFC 
organization is comparable between humans and animals commonly used in
preclinical research (namely rodents and nonhuman primates). Although the
cytoarchitectonic structure of the rodent MFC has mostly been conserved in
humans, it is a long-standing question whether the structural analogies translate
to functional analogies. Here, we probed this question using ultra high field
fMRI data to compare rat, marmoset, and human MFC functional connectivity. First,
we applied hierarchical clustering to intrinsically define the functional
boundaries of the MFC in all three species, independent of cytoarchitectonic
definitions. Then, we mapped the functional connectivity "fingerprints" of these 
regions with a number of different brain areas. Because rats do not share
cytoarchitectonically defined regions of the lateral frontal cortex (LFC) with
primates, the fingerprinting method also afforded the unique ability to compare
the rat MFC and marmoset LFC, which have often been suggested to be functional
analogs. The results demonstrated remarkably similar intrinsic functional
organization of the MFC across the species, but clear differences between rodent 
and primate MFC whole-brain connectivity. Rat MFC patterns of connectivity showed
greatest similarity with premotor regions in the marmoset, rather than
dorsolateral prefrontal regions, which are often suggested to be functionally
comparable. These results corroborate the viability of the marmoset as a
preclinical model of human MFC dysfunction, and suggest divergence of functional 
connectivity between rats and primates in both the MFC and LFC.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2003181117 
PMCID: PMC7474619
PMID: 32817555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

