

2730. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2005 Jan;38(1):65-72. Epub 2005 Jan 18.

Fecal androgen levels in common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) males living in
captive family groups.

Castro DC(1), Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brazil.

In captive common marmoset groups, the reproductive inhibition observed in
subordinate female seems to be a result of olfactory, visual and behavioral cues 
from the dominant female. However, few studies have examined the relationship
among adult males living in the same social group. These studies have shown that 
reproductive failure among peer males seems to be based on hormonal and
behavioral mechanisms. New insights on sexual strategies in primates have been
shown using fecal steroids, but so far no information is available for common
marmoset males. In the present study, we evaluated the influence of light-dark
cycle, age and reproductive condition on the profile of fecal androgens in males 
living in the same family group. Feces were collected from six fathers and six
sons for androgen determination during the light phase of the 24-h cycle for
eight days randomly distributed over a 4-week period. Androgen levels were
determined by enzyme immunoassay technique. Adult sons showed higher androgen
levels (166.97 +/- 22.95 ng/g) than fathers (80.69 +/- 44.38 ng/g) and juveniles 
(49.06 +/- 23.15 ng/g; P < 0.05). No diurnal variation (P > 0.05) in fecal
androgen profile was observed in adults or juveniles. No indication of
androgen-mediated social competition between fathers and adult sons was
demonstrable. These results provide basic information on fecal androgen profile
useful to investigate the socioendocrinology of free-ranging common marmoset
males and verify that, in contrast to daughters, the reproductive suppression of 
sons is not based on physiological inhibition of their gonads.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2005000100011 
PMID: 15665991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2731. Horm Behav. 2005 Feb;47(2):151-63. Epub 2004 Dec 15.

Diminished maternal responsiveness during pregnancy in multiparous female common 
marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) live in small groups in which,
usually, only a single female breeds and all group members provide infant care.
When two females breed concurrently, however, they may commonly kill one
another's infants, especially during the peripartum period. To investigate the
mechanisms underlying infanticide by breeding females, we characterized responses
of multiparous females to infants and determined circulating hormone levels in
adult females during early pregnancy, late pregnancy, and the early postpartum
period. Additionally, we compared the responses of postpartum females to their
own infants and infants of other females (unfamiliar infants). Postpartum females
were highly maternal toward both their own and unfamiliar infants, and showed no 
differences in their behavioral or hormonal responses to the two. During both
early and late pregnancy, however, these females exhibited longer latencies to
initially approach unfamiliar infants and spent less time carrying unfamiliar
infants. Moreover, females spent less time carrying unfamiliar infants during
late pregnancy than early pregnancy. Most late pregnant females never carried
infants, and those that did rejected them quickly. Prolactin concentrations were 
higher and progesterone concentrations lower postpartum than in early or late
pregnancy, while estradiol concentrations, the estradiol-to-progesterone ratio,
and cortisol levels were higher during late pregnancy. Within reproductive
conditions, however, maternal behaviors were not correlated with hormone levels. 
These results suggest that maternal responsiveness in marmosets may be attenuated
during pregnancy, especially late pregnancy, and this may contribute to
infanticide by breeding females.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.10.001 
PMID: 15664018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

