

2737. Toxicology. 2005 Jan 5;206(1):33-48.

Differential signatures of protein expression in marmoset liver and thymus
induced by single-dose TCDD treatment.

Oberemm A(1), Meckert C, Brandenburger L, Herzig A, Lindner Y, Kalenberg K,
Krause E, Ittrich C, Kopp-Schneider A, Stahlmann R, Richter-Reichhelm HB,
Gundert-Remy U.

Author information: 
(1)Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, Thielallee 88-92, 14195 Berlin,
Germany. a.oberemm@bfr.bund.de

2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is an ubiquitously distributed
environmental pollutant. Health effects have been studied intensively, but
low-dose effects are quite complex and not yet fully understood. In many studies,
the immune system was identified as the most sensitive target. Here, we
demonstrate changes of protein expression in liver and thymus of male marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) which were subjected to a single dose of a subcutaneous
injection of 100 ng/kg body weight TCDD. Histopathological examination revealed
myocardial fibrosis, but there were no significant findings in pathology and
histopathology of liver and thymus. In order to detect more subtle
treatment-related changes, we performed a comparative proteomic investigation of 
liver and thymus using a 2-D gel electrophoresis based proteomics approach.
Fluorescence labeling and automated image analysis was used to enhance
sensitivity and reproducibility. In both organs, distinct changes of protein
expression were detected which were more pronounced in thymus, where the pattern 
of deregulated proteins could be clearly related to immune responses. In the
thymus of treated animals, several toxicologically relevant factors were
increased, including chaperones, glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and
adseverin. Among others, vimentin, Ca-dependent protease and protein disulfide
isomerase were downregulated. In the liver, transferrins, lamin A and HSP70 were 
upregulated, whereas thymidine phosphorylase (synonyms: endothelial cell growth
factor, PD-ECGF, gliostatin) was significantly reduced. Comparative analysis of
deregulated proteins in both organs revealed a pattern of related functions,
which fits well into the existing knowledge of the toxic processes and mechanisms
underlying TCDD-mediated toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tox.2004.06.061 
PMID: 15590107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2738. Theriogenology. 2005 Jan 1;63(1):246-59.

Flow cytometric sorting of non-human primate sperm nuclei.

O'Brien JK(1), Stojanov T, Heffernan SJ, Hollinshead FK, Vogelnest L, Maxwell WM,
Evans G.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Science, Centre for Advanced Technologies in Animal
Genetics and Reproduction, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
justineo@vetsci.usyd.edu.au

Pre-determination of the sex of offspring has implications for management and
conservation of captive wildlife species, particularly those with single
sex-dominated social structures. Our goal is to adapt flow cytometry technology
to sort spermatozoa of non-human primate species for use with assisted
reproductive technologies. The objectives of this study were to: (i) determine
the difference in DNA content between X- and Y-bearing spermatozoa (ii) sort
sperm nuclei into X- and Y-enriched samples; and (iii) assess the accuracy of
sorting. Spermatozoa were collected from two common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus), seven hamadryas baboons (Papio hamadryas) and two common chimpanzees
(Pan troglodytes). Human spermatozoa from one male were used as a control. Sperm 
nuclei were stained (Hoechst 33342), incubated and analyzed using a high-speed
cell sorter. Flow cytometric reanalysis of sorted samples (sort reanalysis,
10,000 events/sample) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH; 500 sperm
nuclei/sample) were used to evaluate accuracy of sorting. Based on fluorescence
intensity of X- and Y-bearing sperm nuclei, the difference in DNA content between
X and Y populations was 4.09 +/- 0.03, 4.20 +/- 0.03, 3.30 +/- 0.01, and 2.97 +/-
0.05%, for marmoset, baboon, chimpanzee and human, respectively. Sort reanalysis 
and FISH results were similar; combined data revealed high levels of purity for
X- and Y-enriched samples (94 +/- 0.9 and 93 +/- 0.8%, 94 +/- 0.7 and 94 +/-
0.5%, 91 +/- 0.9 and 97 +/- 0.6%, 94 +/- 0.6 and 94 +/- 0.9%, for marmoset,
baboon, chimpanzee and human, respectively). These data indicate the potential
for high-purity sorting of spermatozoa from non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2004.04.013 
PMID: 15589288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

