

2738. Theriogenology. 2005 Jan 1;63(1):246-59.

Flow cytometric sorting of non-human primate sperm nuclei.

O'Brien JK(1), Stojanov T, Heffernan SJ, Hollinshead FK, Vogelnest L, Maxwell WM,
Evans G.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Science, Centre for Advanced Technologies in Animal
Genetics and Reproduction, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.
justineo@vetsci.usyd.edu.au

Pre-determination of the sex of offspring has implications for management and
conservation of captive wildlife species, particularly those with single
sex-dominated social structures. Our goal is to adapt flow cytometry technology
to sort spermatozoa of non-human primate species for use with assisted
reproductive technologies. The objectives of this study were to: (i) determine
the difference in DNA content between X- and Y-bearing spermatozoa (ii) sort
sperm nuclei into X- and Y-enriched samples; and (iii) assess the accuracy of
sorting. Spermatozoa were collected from two common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus), seven hamadryas baboons (Papio hamadryas) and two common chimpanzees
(Pan troglodytes). Human spermatozoa from one male were used as a control. Sperm 
nuclei were stained (Hoechst 33342), incubated and analyzed using a high-speed
cell sorter. Flow cytometric reanalysis of sorted samples (sort reanalysis,
10,000 events/sample) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH; 500 sperm
nuclei/sample) were used to evaluate accuracy of sorting. Based on fluorescence
intensity of X- and Y-bearing sperm nuclei, the difference in DNA content between
X and Y populations was 4.09 +/- 0.03, 4.20 +/- 0.03, 3.30 +/- 0.01, and 2.97 +/-
0.05%, for marmoset, baboon, chimpanzee and human, respectively. Sort reanalysis 
and FISH results were similar; combined data revealed high levels of purity for
X- and Y-enriched samples (94 +/- 0.9 and 93 +/- 0.8%, 94 +/- 0.7 and 94 +/-
0.5%, 91 +/- 0.9 and 97 +/- 0.6%, 94 +/- 0.6 and 94 +/- 0.9%, for marmoset,
baboon, chimpanzee and human, respectively). These data indicate the potential
for high-purity sorting of spermatozoa from non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2004.04.013 
PMID: 15589288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2739. J Neurosci Methods. 2005 Jan 30;141(1):103-13.

Neurosurgical access to cortical areas in the lateral fissure of primates.

Hackett TA(1), Karmos G, Schroeder CE, Ulbert I, Sterbing-D'Angelo SJ, D'Angelo
WR, Kajikawa Y, Blumell S, de la Mothe L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hearing and Speech Sciences, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson
Hall, 111 21st Avenue South, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.
troy.a.hackett@vanderbilt.edu

In this report, a method is presented for gaining direct access to cortical areas
within the lateral fissure of primates for neuroanatomical tracer injections and 
electrode array implantation. Compared to areas on the surface of the brain, the 
anatomical and physiological properties of areas within the fissure are poorly
understood. Typically, access to these areas is indirectly achieved by ablating
or passing through intervening areas. To enable direct experimental access, a
neurosurgical technique was developed in primates whereby the banks of the
lateral fissure were retracted with sparing of the vascular network and
intervening areas. In some animals, anatomical tracers were directly injected
into target fields without contamination of other areas. In others, multichannel 
electrode arrays were implanted into target areas for chronic recording of neural
activity. Since, these techniques could be adapted for exploration of areas
within other sulci, the approach represents an important advance in efforts to
elucidate the functional organization of the primate cerebral cortex.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2004.06.001 
PMID: 15585294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

