

2739. J Neurosci Methods. 2005 Jan 30;141(1):103-13.

Neurosurgical access to cortical areas in the lateral fissure of primates.

Hackett TA(1), Karmos G, Schroeder CE, Ulbert I, Sterbing-D'Angelo SJ, D'Angelo
WR, Kajikawa Y, Blumell S, de la Mothe L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hearing and Speech Sciences, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson
Hall, 111 21st Avenue South, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.
troy.a.hackett@vanderbilt.edu

In this report, a method is presented for gaining direct access to cortical areas
within the lateral fissure of primates for neuroanatomical tracer injections and 
electrode array implantation. Compared to areas on the surface of the brain, the 
anatomical and physiological properties of areas within the fissure are poorly
understood. Typically, access to these areas is indirectly achieved by ablating
or passing through intervening areas. To enable direct experimental access, a
neurosurgical technique was developed in primates whereby the banks of the
lateral fissure were retracted with sparing of the vascular network and
intervening areas. In some animals, anatomical tracers were directly injected
into target fields without contamination of other areas. In others, multichannel 
electrode arrays were implanted into target areas for chronic recording of neural
activity. Since, these techniques could be adapted for exploration of areas
within other sulci, the approach represents an important advance in efforts to
elucidate the functional organization of the primate cerebral cortex.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2004.06.001 
PMID: 15585294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2740. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2004 Nov;79(3):391-400.

Effect of 5-HT1B/D receptor agonist and antagonist administration on motor
function in haloperidol and MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Jackson MJ(1), Al-Barghouthy G, Pearce RK, Smith L, Hagan JJ, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Science, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

An interaction between brain serotonergic and dopaminergic systems involving
5-HT(1B) receptors may contribute to motor complications arising from the drug
treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders. This study assessed the
effects of treatment with a non-selective 5-HT(1B/D) receptor agonist and a
selective 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist on akinesia induced in marmosets by
long-term treatment with haloperidol and on motor disability and l-3,
4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated marmosets. In
marmosets treated chronically with haloperidol, the 5-HT(1B) agonist SKF-99101-H 
reduced locomotor activity and induced motor disability, whereas the 5-HT(1B)
antagonist SB-224289-A had no effect on motor behaviour. Haloperidol
administration induced a suppression of locomotor activity which was not reversed
by co-administration of either SKF-99101-H or SB-224289-A. In MPTP-treated common
marmosets, neither SKF-99101-H nor SB-224289-A induced any significant change in 
motor function. However, SKF-99101-H inhibited L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and the 
reversal of motor deficits whereas SB-224289-A was without effect. The results of
this study indicate that the 5-HT(1B) receptor appears not to be an appropriate
target for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) or for the control of
drug-induced motor complications developed as a tong-term consequence of
neuroleptic or L-DOPA treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2004.07.015 
PMID: 15582011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

