

2740. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2004 Nov;79(3):391-400.

Effect of 5-HT1B/D receptor agonist and antagonist administration on motor
function in haloperidol and MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Jackson MJ(1), Al-Barghouthy G, Pearce RK, Smith L, Hagan JJ, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Science, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

An interaction between brain serotonergic and dopaminergic systems involving
5-HT(1B) receptors may contribute to motor complications arising from the drug
treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders. This study assessed the
effects of treatment with a non-selective 5-HT(1B/D) receptor agonist and a
selective 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist on akinesia induced in marmosets by
long-term treatment with haloperidol and on motor disability and l-3,
4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated marmosets. In
marmosets treated chronically with haloperidol, the 5-HT(1B) agonist SKF-99101-H 
reduced locomotor activity and induced motor disability, whereas the 5-HT(1B)
antagonist SB-224289-A had no effect on motor behaviour. Haloperidol
administration induced a suppression of locomotor activity which was not reversed
by co-administration of either SKF-99101-H or SB-224289-A. In MPTP-treated common
marmosets, neither SKF-99101-H nor SB-224289-A induced any significant change in 
motor function. However, SKF-99101-H inhibited L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and the 
reversal of motor deficits whereas SB-224289-A was without effect. The results of
this study indicate that the 5-HT(1B) receptor appears not to be an appropriate
target for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) or for the control of
drug-induced motor complications developed as a tong-term consequence of
neuroleptic or L-DOPA treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2004.07.015 
PMID: 15582011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2741. Physiol Behav. 2004 Dec 15;83(3):437-45.

Intensity of aggressive interactions modulates testosterone in male marmosets.

Ross CN(1), French JA, Patera KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE,
USA. cross@bigred.unl.edu

Androgen is associated with the expression of male-typical behavior, including
aggressive behavior, but high levels of androgen may be incompatible with other
behavioral systems, such as paternal care. In a variety of species of birds that 
display paternal care, testosterone (T) levels in males are maintained at low
levels, and these levels rise only in response to direct agonistic challenges.
This idea has not been thoroughly studied in mammals with biparental care, and we
exposed male marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii), a monogamous and biparental primate
to aggressive interactions with unfamiliar intruders. Urinary levels of T and
cortisol (CORT) were monitored prior to and following these interactions.
Baseline T was not correlated with variation in aggression in either residents or
intruders, and CORT was not affected by the encounters. However, males responded 
to an encounter with male intruders with changes in T that correlated with the
level of aggression displayed by the resident male during the trial. Encounters
with male intruders that elicited high frequencies of aggressive displays by the 
male resident were associated with increased T 2-6 h and 24 h following the
encounter, and encounters that had few aggressive displays resulted in no change 
or a decrease in T concentrations. Intruders did not demonstrate a significant
relationship between T and aggression. Thus, the magnitude of the hormonal
response is dependent on the intensity of aggression during a male-male
encounter, suggesting that elevated androgens are likely to be a consequence,
rather than a cause, of aggressive interactions in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2004.08.036 
PMID: 15581666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

