

2747. J Appl Toxicol. 2004 Nov-Dec;24(6):475-83.

Low levels of sarin affect the EEG in marmoset monkeys: a pilot study.

van Helden HP(1), Vanwersch RA, Kuijpers WC, Trap HC, Philippens IH, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Countermeasures. TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, PO Box
45, 2280 AA Rijswijk, The Netherlands. helden@pml.tno.nl

The main purpose of this pilot study was to estimate the lowest observable
adverse effect level (LOAEL) for the electroencephalogram (EEG) upon long-term,
low-level exposure of vehicle-pretreated and pyridostigmine-pretreated marmoset
monkeys to sarin vapour. This is the C.t value (t=5 h) of exposure at which the
EEG becomes significantly different from that resulting from air exposure of the 
same animals. The LOAELs for effects on the EEG in vehicle- and
pyridostigmine-pretreated marmosets appeared to be 0.2 and 0.1 mg min m(-3),
respectively. Comparatively, the latter LOAEL values are at least an order of
magnitude lower than the previously established LOAEL for miosis and only 2-5
times higher than the lowest observable effect level (LOEL) of bound sarin in
blood. The second aim of the study was to analyse the EEG of the same marmosets
again during a 5-h exposure to air 1 year after exposure to sarin vapour. All the
marmosets still demonstrated significant (P <0.05) EEG differences. In most
vehicle-pretreated marmosets the energy (microV2) per EEG band was higher than
that observed 1 year earlier, which might indicate that neurons had become more
sensitive to excitation. This phenomenon was less pronounced in
pyridostigmine-pretreated animals. Visual examination of the EEG records revealed
clear bursts of alpha frequencies (ca. 9 Hz), resembling sleep-spindles, that
were present more frequently in both groups of exposed marmosets than in naive
animals. These late changes in spindle oscillation might be the result of changes
in the cholinergic system due to exposure to sarin vapour 1 year previously. In
conclusion, EEG abnormalities persisting for more than 1 year may occur in humans
during long-term (5 h) exposure to subclinical levels of sarin that are not
detectable by the currently fielded alarm systems.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.1001 
PMID: 15558834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2748. Horm Behav. 2004 Dec;46(5):670-7.

Development of prolactin levels in marmoset males: from adult son to first-time
father.

Schradin C(1), Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut und Museum, CH-8057 ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.

Previous studies have found a clear relationship between prolactin (prl) and
paternal care in various vertebrate taxa. In New World monkeys, it has been
demonstrated in several species that fathers have high prolactin levels even
during periods without infant rearing. In this study, we followed the
reproductive careers of common marmoset males as they transitioned from being an 
adult son within their native family to fathering their own offspring for the
first time. Specifically, we examined the first experience of elevated prolactin 
levels in marmoset males. Additionally, we investigated the effects of the total 
number of experienced births as well as of age on prolactin levels. Our results
show that common marmoset males did not experience an increase in prolactin
secretion after pairing or shortly before birth of their first infants. However, 
prolactin levels rose more than twofold after the birth of their first infants
and had lowered again 2.5 months after this event. We found no correlation
between prolactin levels and the number of previous births experienced or age.
Our study demonstrates that further work about a possible enhancing effect of
prolactin on paternal care, by means of experimentally reducing hormonal levels, 
should be conducted in common marmosets using first-time fathers before males
experience the first paternal increase in prolactin levels.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.04.010 
PMID: 15555510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

