

2748. Horm Behav. 2004 Dec;46(5):670-7.

Development of prolactin levels in marmoset males: from adult son to first-time
father.

Schradin C(1), Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut und Museum, CH-8057 ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.

Previous studies have found a clear relationship between prolactin (prl) and
paternal care in various vertebrate taxa. In New World monkeys, it has been
demonstrated in several species that fathers have high prolactin levels even
during periods without infant rearing. In this study, we followed the
reproductive careers of common marmoset males as they transitioned from being an 
adult son within their native family to fathering their own offspring for the
first time. Specifically, we examined the first experience of elevated prolactin 
levels in marmoset males. Additionally, we investigated the effects of the total 
number of experienced births as well as of age on prolactin levels. Our results
show that common marmoset males did not experience an increase in prolactin
secretion after pairing or shortly before birth of their first infants. However, 
prolactin levels rose more than twofold after the birth of their first infants
and had lowered again 2.5 months after this event. We found no correlation
between prolactin levels and the number of previous births experienced or age.
Our study demonstrates that further work about a possible enhancing effect of
prolactin on paternal care, by means of experimentally reducing hormonal levels, 
should be conducted in common marmosets using first-time fathers before males
experience the first paternal increase in prolactin levels.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2004.04.010 
PMID: 15555510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2749. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Apr;93(4):2062-72. Epub 2004 Nov 17.

Acetylcholine dynamically controls spatial integration in marmoset primary visual
cortex.

Roberts MJ(1), Zinke W, Guo K, Robertson R, McDonald JS, Thiele A.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Brain and Behavior, University of Newcastle Upon Tyne, Newcastle
Upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.

Recent in vitro studies have shown that acetylcholine (ACh) selectively reduces
the efficacy of lateral cortical connections via a muscarinic mechanism, while
boosting the efficacy of thalamocortical/feed-forward connections via a nicotinic
mechanism. This suggests that high levels of ACh should reduce center-surround
interactions of neurons in primary visual cortex, making cells more reliant on
feed-forward information. In line with this hypothesis, we show that local
iontophoretic application of ACh in primate primary visual cortex reduced the
extent of spatial integration, assessed by recording a neurons' length tuning.
When ACh was externally applied, neurons' preferred length shifted toward shorter
bars, showing reduced impact of the extra-classical receptive field. We fitted a 
difference and a ratio of Gaussian model to these data to determine the
underlying mechanisms of this dynamic change of spatial integration. These models
assume overlapping summation and suppression areas with different widths and
gains to be responsible for spatial integration and size tuning. ACh
significantly reduced the extent of the summation area, but had no significant
effect on the extent of the suppression area. In line with previous studies, we
also show that applying ACh enhanced the response in the majority of cells,
especially in the later (sustained) part of the response. These findings are
similar to effects of attention on neuronal activity. The natural release of ACh 
is strongly linked with states of arousal and attention. Our results may
therefore be relevant to the neurobiological mechanism of attention.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00911.2004 
PMCID: PMC1891447
PMID: 15548624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

