

2750. Cell Prolif. 2004 Dec;37(6):443-4.

Improved efficiency of EBV transformation of B-lymphocytes.

Bass H, Darke C.

Comment on
    Cell Prolif. 2003 Aug;36(4):191-7.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2184.2004.00321.x 
PMCID: PMC6496010
PMID: 15548176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2751. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2005;108(1-3):191-6.

Investigation of marmoset hybrids (Cebuella pygmaea x Callithrix jacchus) and
related Callitrichinae (Platyrrhini) by cross-species chromosome painting and
comparative genomic hybridization.

Neusser M(1), Münch M, Anzenberger G, Müller S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Anthropology and Human Genetics, Department Biology II, Ludwig
Maximilian University, Munich, Germany.

We report on the cytogenetics of twin offspring from an interspecies cross in
marmosets (Callitrichinae, Platyrrhini), resulting from a pairing between a
female Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, 2n = 46) and a male Pygmy marmoset
(Cebuella pygmaea, 2n = 44). We analyzed their karyotypes by multi-directional
chromosome painting employing human, Saguinus oedipus and Lagothrix lagothricha
chromosome-specific probes. Both hybrid individuals had a karyotype with a
diploid chromosome number of 2n = 45. As a complementary tool, interspecies
comparative genomic hybridization (iCGH) was performed in order to screen for
genomic imbalances between the hybrids and their parental species, and between
Callithrix argentata and S. oedipus, respectively. These genomic imbalances were 
confined to centromeric and telomeric heterochromatin, while euchromatic
chromosome regions appeared balanced in all species investigated. When comparing 
marmosets and tamarins, sequence divergence of centromeric heterochromatin was
already clearly noticeable. In the C. argentata and C. pygmaea genomes numerous
subtelomeric regions were affected by amplification of different repetitive
sequences. Cross-species FISH with a microdissection-derived C. pygmaea
repetitive probe revealed species specificity of this repetitive sequence at the 
molecular cytogenetic level of resolution.

Copyright (c) 2005 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000080815 
PMID: 15545729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

