

2753. Ann Ist Super Sanita. 2004;40(2):181-6.

Environmental enrichment techniques in non-human primates. The case of
Callitrichids.

Vitale A(1), Manciocco A.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Cellulare e Neuroscienze, Istituto Superiore di
Sanit√†, Rome, Italy. vitale@iss.it

In this paper, we discuss issues concerning the welfare of non-human primates
used in laboratory research from an eco-ethological standpoint and suggest means 
of improving welfare. Following a brief review of the use of non-human primates
in European countries and of the legislation that governs this use, we illustrate
how a thorough eco-ethological knowledge of the species being studied can play a 
vital role in improving both its conditions and the quality of the experimental
protocols, arguing that the animal's quality of life is closely linked to the
quality of data. As a model for describing environmental enrichment techniques,
we have used the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).


PMID: 15536268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2754. Biologicals. 2004 Sep;32(3):147-52.

Neurovirulence of mumps virus: intraspinal inoculation test in marmosets.

Saika S(1), Kidokoro M, Aoki A, Ohkawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Chiba Prefectural Institute of Public Health, 666-2 Nitona-Cho, Chuo-Ku
Chiba-City, Chiba 260-8715, Japan. s.sik@ma.pref.chiba.jp

An intraspinal inoculation test of mumps virus using marmosets was performed in
order to develop a neurovirulence test of mumps vaccines. In the group inoculated
with non-neurovirulent Jeryl Lynn vaccine strain at 10(2.0) pfu/dose, there were 
only minimal histopathological changes in 3 of the 5 marmosets. In contrast, all 
marmosets inoculated with neurovirulent Urabe and NK-M46 vaccine strains
developed extensive encephalitis and meningitis. Thus, this marmoset model, which
can distinguish between non-neurovirulent and neurovirulent vaccine strains, is
useful for evaluating neurovirulence of vaccine strains and elucidating the
molecular pathogenesis of mumps.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biologicals.2004.08.003 
PMID: 15536045  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

