

2760. Laterality. 2002;7(2):145-62.

Leading-limb preferences in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): walking, leaping and 
landing.

Hook MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of New England, Armidale, NSW, Australia. mhook@mdanderson.org

The leading-limb preferences of 17 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) when
they initiated and terminated locomotion were determined from video recordings of
the subjects walking on, leaping off, and landing on a plexiglas platform. In a
majority of sequences, 11 of 17 subjects landed with the right hand and foot
contacting the plexiglas substrate before the left hand and foot. Of the 17
subjects, 8 initiated leaping with the right side of the body, whereas only 3
subjects significantly preferred to initiate leaping with the left hand and foot.
Leading-limb preferences displayed during landing were positively correlated with
those displayed for leaping and walking, although only two subjects displayed
significant leading-limb preferences when walking. By contrast, hand preferences 
for initiating and terminating locomotion were not related to hand preferences
for food holding; 16 of 17 marmosets displayed strong and significant hand
preferences for food holding, even though many did not show leading-limb
preferences for walking, leaping, or landing. These data seem to suggest that the
right arm is stronger in marmosets. The right arm is used initially to decelerate
the body and absorb the impact of contact with the landing substrate. The
tendency for the right arm to be stronger is balanced by a tendency for the left 
leg to be stronger (providing the force needed for leaping).

DOI: 10.1080/13576500143000177 
PMID: 15513194 


2761. Laterality. 1998 Jul;3(3):269-81.

Teat preference for suckling in common marmosets: relationship to side of being
carried and hand preference.

Rogers LJ(1), Kaplan G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of New England, Armidale, Australia.
lrogers@metz.une.edu.au

Mother-infant interaction in common marmosets ( Callithrix jacchus jacchus ) was 
scored for the first 60 days post parturition. Teat preference was compared to
hand preference for picking up and holding food over the same ages and at 18
months. All infants, except one, exhibited strong preferences for one of the
mother's teats. Preference for a teat was maintained when twins suckled
separately as well as together. Infants suckled separately for a mean 42% of the 
time of all suckling bouts being observed. There was a significant correlation
between teat preference and the side of being carried by the mother. This
correlation was maintained despite the fact that the father also carried the
infants. There was no significant relationship between teat preference and hand
preference from 0 to 2 months or later life.

DOI: 10.1080/713754301 
PMID: 15513089 

