

2761. Laterality. 1998 Jul;3(3):269-81.

Teat preference for suckling in common marmosets: relationship to side of being
carried and hand preference.

Rogers LJ(1), Kaplan G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of New England, Armidale, Australia.
lrogers@metz.une.edu.au

Mother-infant interaction in common marmosets ( Callithrix jacchus jacchus ) was 
scored for the first 60 days post parturition. Teat preference was compared to
hand preference for picking up and holding food over the same ages and at 18
months. All infants, except one, exhibited strong preferences for one of the
mother's teats. Preference for a teat was maintained when twins suckled
separately as well as together. Infants suckled separately for a mean 42% of the 
time of all suckling bouts being observed. There was a significant correlation
between teat preference and the side of being carried by the mother. This
correlation was maintained despite the fact that the father also carried the
infants. There was no significant relationship between teat preference and hand
preference from 0 to 2 months or later life.

DOI: 10.1080/713754301 
PMID: 15513089 


2762. Laterality. 1998 Apr;3(2):109-30.

Eye preferences in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): influence of age,
stimulus, and hand preference.

Hook-Costigan MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of New England, Armidale, Australia.
mhookho@metz.une.edu.au

Eye preferences of the common marmoset ( Callithrix jacchus ) were examined,
taking into account age, arousal, and hand preference. Monocular eye use for
looking through a small hole at a stimulus was recorded. Of 21 marmosets, 20
displayed right-eye preferences for viewing a piece of familiar food. In subjects
tested at 3-8, 12, 15-18, and 22 months, eye preferences were consistent across
age. A group bias, indicative of right-eyedness, was also found for viewing other
stimuli. The stimuli included a watch, mirror, model of a beetle, and the
experimenter's hand. However, when the marmosets viewed a threatening stimulus, a
model resembling two rearing snakes, they displayed increased arousal (indicated 
by longer duration between monocular viewing events and increased incidence of
aroused vocalisations) and the eye preferences shifted away from a preference for
the right eye to either no preference or a left-eye preference. No relationship
between eye preference and hand preference for holding food was found. Therefore,
we suggest that eye preferences may reflect hemispheric specialisations for
perceptual processing, according to the emotional valence of the stimulus.

DOI: 10.1080/713754297 
PMID: 15513078 

