

2762. Laterality. 1998 Apr;3(2):109-30.

Eye preferences in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): influence of age,
stimulus, and hand preference.

Hook-Costigan MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of New England, Armidale, Australia.
mhookho@metz.une.edu.au

Eye preferences of the common marmoset ( Callithrix jacchus ) were examined,
taking into account age, arousal, and hand preference. Monocular eye use for
looking through a small hole at a stimulus was recorded. Of 21 marmosets, 20
displayed right-eye preferences for viewing a piece of familiar food. In subjects
tested at 3-8, 12, 15-18, and 22 months, eye preferences were consistent across
age. A group bias, indicative of right-eyedness, was also found for viewing other
stimuli. The stimuli included a watch, mirror, model of a beetle, and the
experimenter's hand. However, when the marmosets viewed a threatening stimulus, a
model resembling two rearing snakes, they displayed increased arousal (indicated 
by longer duration between monocular viewing events and increased incidence of
aroused vocalisations) and the eye preferences shifted away from a preference for
the right eye to either no preference or a left-eye preference. No relationship
between eye preference and hand preference for holding food was found. Therefore,
we suggest that eye preferences may reflect hemispheric specialisations for
perceptual processing, according to the emotional valence of the stimulus.

DOI: 10.1080/713754297 
PMID: 15513078 


2763. Dev Psychobiol. 2004 Nov;45(3):134-9.

Diurnal cycle in salivary cortisol levels in common marmosets.

Cross N(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Biological, Biomedical
and Molecular Sciences University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. 
nicola.cross@stir.ac.uk

A noninvasive method of saliva sampling was used to assess the diurnal cortisol
rhythm from 0900 to 1700 hr in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The
levels of cortisol were highest in the morning and declined significantly over
the day. Individual marmosets varied in the magnitude of the cycle, and the
greatest individual variability occurred in the morning levels. The decrease in
cortisol levels was more rapid after than before the midday feeding period in
subordinate marmosets (aged 53-63 months) compared to dominant marmosets (aged
79-80 months), and overall, the levels of cortisol were higher in the subordinate
marmosets. We found no effect of sex on cortisol levels across the cycle.

(c) 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.20023 
PMID: 15505795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

