

2763. Dev Psychobiol. 2004 Nov;45(3):134-9.

Diurnal cycle in salivary cortisol levels in common marmosets.

Cross N(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Biological, Biomedical
and Molecular Sciences University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. 
nicola.cross@stir.ac.uk

A noninvasive method of saliva sampling was used to assess the diurnal cortisol
rhythm from 0900 to 1700 hr in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The
levels of cortisol were highest in the morning and declined significantly over
the day. Individual marmosets varied in the magnitude of the cycle, and the
greatest individual variability occurred in the morning levels. The decrease in
cortisol levels was more rapid after than before the midday feeding period in
subordinate marmosets (aged 53-63 months) compared to dominant marmosets (aged
79-80 months), and overall, the levels of cortisol were higher in the subordinate
marmosets. We found no effect of sex on cortisol levels across the cycle.

(c) 2004 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.20023 
PMID: 15505795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2764. Chromosome Res. 2004;12(7):691-701.

Chromosome painting comparison of Leontopithecus chrysomelas (Callitrichine,
Platyrrhini) with man and its phylogenetic position.

Gerbault-Serreau M(1), Bonnet-Garnier A, Richard F, Dutrillaux B.

Author information: 
(1)FRE 2584 CNRS, Institut Curie, Section Recherche, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris
Cedex 05, France.

Using human probes of whole chromosomes, the homoeologies between human and
Leontopithecus chrysomelas (Platyrrhini) karyotypes were established.
Thirty-three conserved segments were observed between the two species.
Intrachromosomal rearrangements between the two species were identified using
hybridization of chromosome arm probes of human chromosomes 1 and 3. We also used
chromosomal data to investigate phylogenetic relationships of Callitrichines.
These data were encoded using Cebus capucinus , a species which kept fairly
ancestral chromosomes, as reference. Two equi-parsimonious trees, including
reversion or convergence events, were obtained. The monophyly of Callitrichines
is confirmed. They share nine chromosomal rearrangements at least. The
Cebuella-Callithrix group forms a clade sharing five rearrangements at least.
According to the tree considered, the Tamarins, Leontopithecus and Saguinus share
two chromosomal rearrangements restricted to these two taxa or none. Callimico
accumulated seven chromosomal rearrangements unshared with other taxa, at least. 
To avoid convergence and reversion events, we propose the hypothesis of a network
(or populational) evolution. Six chromosomal rearrangements would have occurred
during the period of this network evolution. Finally, the karyotype of the last
common ancestor to all Callitrichines has been reconstructed. It possessed 48
chromosomes.

DOI: 10.1023/B:CHRO.0000045754.43803.db 
PMID: 15505404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

