

2774. Epilepsia. 2004 Oct;45(10):1240-7.

fMRI of generalized absence status epilepticus in conscious marmoset monkeys
reveals corticothalamic activation.

Tenney JR(1), Marshall PC, King JA, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Comparative Neuroimaging, Department of Psychiatry, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.
jeffrey.tenney@umassmed.edu

PURPOSE: A nonhuman primate model of generalized absence status epilepticus was
developed for use in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments to 
elucidate the brain mechanisms underlying this disorder.
METHODS: Adult male marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were treated with
gamma-butyrolactone (GBL) to induce prolonged absence seizures, and the resulting
spike-wave discharges (SWDs) were analyzed to determine the similarity to the
3-Hz SWDs that characterize the disorder. In addition,
blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) fMRI was measured at 4.7 Tesla after
absence seizure induction with GBL.
RESULTS: Electroencephalographic recordings during imaging showed 3-Hz SWDs
typical of human absence seizures. This synchronized EEG pattern started within
15 to 20 min of drug administration and persisted for >60 min. In addition,
pretreatment with the antiepileptic drug, ethosuximide (ESM), blocked the
behavioral and EEG changes caused by GBL. Changes in BOLD signal intensity in the
thalamus and sensorimotor cortex correlated with the onset of 3-Hz SWDs. The
change in BOLD signal intensity was bilateral but heterogeneous, affecting some
brain areas more than others. No significant negative BOLD changes were seen.
CONCLUSIONS: The BOLD fMRI data obtained in this marmoset monkey model of absence
status epilepticus shows activation within the thalamus and cortex.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0013-9580.2004.21504.x 
PMID: 15461678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2775. Endocrinology. 2005 Jan;146(1):365-74. Epub 2004 Sep 30.

Male marmoset monkeys express an adrenal fetal zone at birth, but not a zona
reticularis in adulthood.

Pattison JC(1), Abbott DH, Saltzman W, Nguyen AD, Henderson G, Jing H, Pryce CR, 
Allen AJ, Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin 53715, USA.

Neonatal human males produce high levels of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and its
sulfo-conjugated form (DS) that decline within a few months of birth, due to
regression of the adrenal fetal zone (FZ). Adult male humans and rhesus monkeys
produce C19 steroids in abundance from the adrenal zona reticularis (ZR). Male
marmoset monkeys produce DS at birth, but unlike humans and rhesus monkeys, do
not produce comparable amounts of DHEA and DS in adulthood. To determine whether 
male marmosets express a functional ZR in adulthood, we examined adult and
neonatal male marmosets for the presence of a ZR and FZ, respectively. Exogenous 
ACTH failed to stimulate DHEA or DS in adults, and dexamethasone treatment failed
to suppress DHEA and DS, although cortisol levels changed as expected. In
steroidogenic tissues, the key proteins necessary to synthesize C19 steroids from
pregnenolone are P450c17, 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD),
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced) oxido-reductase cytochrome 
P450 (reductase), and cytochromeb5 (cytb5). Adult adrenal cross sections showed
P450c17 and reductase protein expression throughout the cortex but showed no
expected decrease in 3beta-HSD and increase in cytb5 in the innermost region.
Western analysis confirmed these data, demonstrating comparable P450c17
expression to rhesus monkeys, but not cytb5. HPLC analysis revealed similar
17alpha-hydroxylase action on pregnenolone for adult marmoset and rhesus adrenal 
microsomes but greatly diminished 17,20-lyase activity in marmosets. Neonatal
marmoset adrenals exhibited staining indicative of a putative FZ (with P450c17,
reduced 3beta-HSD and increased cytb5). We conclude that neonatal marmosets
exhibit a C19 steroid-secreting FZ similar to humans, but adult males fail to
acquire a functional ZR.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2004-0689 
PMID: 15459122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

