

2783. Exp Hematol. 2004 Sep;32(9):843-51.

Hematopoietic activity of common marmoset CD34 cells isolated by a novel
monoclonal antibody MA24.

Izawa K(1), Tani K, Nakazaki Y, Hibino H, Sugiyama H, Kawasaki A, Sasaki E,
Nishioka C, Ishii H, Soda Y, Yagita H, Tanioka Y, Tojo A, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: We focused on a small New World monkey, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), to establish a nonhuman primate model of the treatment of
hematological disorders. In this study, we developed the first monoclonal
antibodies (MAbs) against marmoset CD34 and tested the in vitro and in vivo
hemopoietic activity of cell populations isolated using one of these MAbs.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Marmoset cDNA encoding a human CD34 homologue was cloned
from bone marrow (BM)-derived RNA using reverse transcription polymerase chain
reaction and rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The amino acid sequence of the
marmoset CD34 had 81% homology with the human sequence. Five mouse MAbs were
raised against marmoset CD34 transfectant. One representative MAb, MA24 (IgM),
reacted with approximately 0.5 to 1% of BM mononuclear cells (MNCs), where the
colony-forming unit granulocyte/macrophage (CFU-GM) was enriched approximately
11- to 75-fold as compared with the whole BM MNCs. Multilineage differentiation
of marmoset CD34+ cells in NOD/SCID mice was confirmed by flow cytometry 1 month 
after xenotransplantation.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrated that MA24 is useful for the analysis and
enrichment of hematopoietic progenitor cells in the marmoset model for
preclinical experiments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2004.06.007 
PMID: 15345286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2784. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Jan;93(1):22-34. Epub 2004 Sep 1.

A comparison of neuron response properties in areas A1 and CM of the marmoset
monkey auditory cortex: tones and broadband noise.

Kajikawa Y(1), de La Mothe L, Blumell S, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson Hall 111 21Avenue 
South, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.

The purpose of this study was to compare response properties of two adjacent
areas of the marmoset monkey auditory cortex. Multiunit responses to 50 ms tones 
and broadband noise bursts (BBN) were recorded in the core area, A1, and the
caudomedial belt area, CM, of ketamine-anesthetized animals. Neurons in A1 and CM
exhibited robust low-threshold short-latency responses to BBN and tones, whereas 
neurons in adjoining lateral belt areas were poorly responsive or unresponsive to
tones and noise. Except for a population of broadly tuned units in CM, the
characteristic frequency (CF) could be determined for all recording sites in A1
and CM. Both areas were tonotopically organized and shared a high CF border.
Whereas the tonotopic gradient in A1 was smooth and continuous across the field, 
the gradient in CM was discontinuous, and the intermediate CF range was
underrepresented. For BBN stimuli, rate level functions were largely monotonic in
A1 and CM. Response profiles were also similar in both areas. As a population,
neurons in CM were distinguished from A1 by significantly shorter response
latencies, lower thresholds, and broader tuning bandwidth at higher intensities. 
The results indicated that, while A1 and CM represent anatomically and
physiologically distinct areas, their response profiles under anesthesia
overlapped considerably compared with the lateral belt areas. Therefore
refinements of current models of the primate auditory cortex may be needed to
account for differences in organization among the auditory belt areas.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00248.2004 
PMID: 15342713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

