

2784. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Jan;93(1):22-34. Epub 2004 Sep 1.

A comparison of neuron response properties in areas A1 and CM of the marmoset
monkey auditory cortex: tones and broadband noise.

Kajikawa Y(1), de La Mothe L, Blumell S, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson Hall 111 21Avenue 
South, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.

The purpose of this study was to compare response properties of two adjacent
areas of the marmoset monkey auditory cortex. Multiunit responses to 50 ms tones 
and broadband noise bursts (BBN) were recorded in the core area, A1, and the
caudomedial belt area, CM, of ketamine-anesthetized animals. Neurons in A1 and CM
exhibited robust low-threshold short-latency responses to BBN and tones, whereas 
neurons in adjoining lateral belt areas were poorly responsive or unresponsive to
tones and noise. Except for a population of broadly tuned units in CM, the
characteristic frequency (CF) could be determined for all recording sites in A1
and CM. Both areas were tonotopically organized and shared a high CF border.
Whereas the tonotopic gradient in A1 was smooth and continuous across the field, 
the gradient in CM was discontinuous, and the intermediate CF range was
underrepresented. For BBN stimuli, rate level functions were largely monotonic in
A1 and CM. Response profiles were also similar in both areas. As a population,
neurons in CM were distinguished from A1 by significantly shorter response
latencies, lower thresholds, and broader tuning bandwidth at higher intensities. 
The results indicated that, while A1 and CM represent anatomically and
physiologically distinct areas, their response profiles under anesthesia
overlapped considerably compared with the lateral belt areas. Therefore
refinements of current models of the primate auditory cortex may be needed to
account for differences in organization among the auditory belt areas.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00248.2004 
PMID: 15342713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2785. Cereb Cortex. 2005 Jun;15(6):740-8. Epub 2004 Sep 1.

Topographic and laminar maturation of striate cortex in early postnatal marmoset 
monkeys, as revealed by neurofilament immunohistochemistry.

Bourne JA(1), Warner CE, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

The maturation of pyramidal neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) of marmoset
monkeys was investigated using an antibody (SMI-32) to non-phosphorylated
neurofilament protein (NNF). Analysis of animals aged between birth and postnatal
day 91 (PD 91, which corresponds approximately to the peak of synaptogenesis in
this species) revealed discrete changes in both the laminar and the areal
distribution of NNF. At PD 0, the upper part of layer 6 contained darkly labelled
neurons and associated neuropil, including axons. In this layer a
centroperipheral gradient, with more labelled cells in the foveal representation,
was apparent at PD 0. This topographic gradient gradually disappeared, and by PD 
91 a similar density of labelled layer 6 cells was observed throughout V1.
Labelled cells were not apparent in layer 3C until PD 7, and were not distributed
according to a topographic gradient. Labelled cells were first observed in layer 
3B(alpha) at PD 28, when they formed a centroperipheral gradient similar to that 
seen in layer 6. This gradient was still evident in an adult animal. These
results demonstrate an inside-out profile of postnatal cortical development, with
the topographic pattern of maturation of V1 mimicking the centroperipheral
gradient of maturation in the retina.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhh175 
PMID: 15342427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

