

2785. Cereb Cortex. 2005 Jun;15(6):740-8. Epub 2004 Sep 1.

Topographic and laminar maturation of striate cortex in early postnatal marmoset 
monkeys, as revealed by neurofilament immunohistochemistry.

Bourne JA(1), Warner CE, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

The maturation of pyramidal neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) of marmoset
monkeys was investigated using an antibody (SMI-32) to non-phosphorylated
neurofilament protein (NNF). Analysis of animals aged between birth and postnatal
day 91 (PD 91, which corresponds approximately to the peak of synaptogenesis in
this species) revealed discrete changes in both the laminar and the areal
distribution of NNF. At PD 0, the upper part of layer 6 contained darkly labelled
neurons and associated neuropil, including axons. In this layer a
centroperipheral gradient, with more labelled cells in the foveal representation,
was apparent at PD 0. This topographic gradient gradually disappeared, and by PD 
91 a similar density of labelled layer 6 cells was observed throughout V1.
Labelled cells were not apparent in layer 3C until PD 7, and were not distributed
according to a topographic gradient. Labelled cells were first observed in layer 
3B(alpha) at PD 28, when they formed a centroperipheral gradient similar to that 
seen in layer 6. This gradient was still evident in an adult animal. These
results demonstrate an inside-out profile of postnatal cortical development, with
the topographic pattern of maturation of V1 mimicking the centroperipheral
gradient of maturation in the retina.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhh175 
PMID: 15342427  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2786. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2004 Sep;13(9):1203-6.

Targeting metabolic syndrome.

Fong TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolic Disorders, R80M-213, Merck Research Laboratories, PO
Box 2000, Rahway, NJ 07065, USA. tung_fong@merck.com

Metabolic syndrome has been recognised as a cluster of risk factors contributing 
to the development of cardiovascular diseases. Different diagnostic criteria have
been proposed and the consensus focuses on four major risk factors: obesity,
diabetes, dyslipidaemia and hypertension. Although treatment options are
available to treat each component separately, a highly effective agent for
metabolic syndrome has yet to be developed. To explore the clinical definition of
metabolic syndrome and potential molecular targets that can be modulated for
treatment purpose, a meeting entitled 'Targeting Metabolic Syndrome' was
organised in 2004 by IBC USA Conferences, Inc. This article highlights
discussions related to the clinical correlates and pathophysiology of metabolic
syndrome, and reviews some of the promising drug discovery efforts. Metabolic
syndrome should be treatable and preventable if obesity and insulin resistance
are well controlled. New regulatory guidelines need to be developed as new
treatment options are being investigated. From a broad spectrum of potential
mechanisms encompassing central nervous system targets and peripheral targets for
pharmacological intervention, a few promising molecular targets have emerged.
Modulating these is expected to treat at least some components of metabolic
syndrome.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.13.9.1203 
PMID: 15330751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

