

2786. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2004 Sep;13(9):1203-6.

Targeting metabolic syndrome.

Fong TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Metabolic Disorders, R80M-213, Merck Research Laboratories, PO
Box 2000, Rahway, NJ 07065, USA. tung_fong@merck.com

Metabolic syndrome has been recognised as a cluster of risk factors contributing 
to the development of cardiovascular diseases. Different diagnostic criteria have
been proposed and the consensus focuses on four major risk factors: obesity,
diabetes, dyslipidaemia and hypertension. Although treatment options are
available to treat each component separately, a highly effective agent for
metabolic syndrome has yet to be developed. To explore the clinical definition of
metabolic syndrome and potential molecular targets that can be modulated for
treatment purpose, a meeting entitled 'Targeting Metabolic Syndrome' was
organised in 2004 by IBC USA Conferences, Inc. This article highlights
discussions related to the clinical correlates and pathophysiology of metabolic
syndrome, and reviews some of the promising drug discovery efforts. Metabolic
syndrome should be treatable and preventable if obesity and insulin resistance
are well controlled. New regulatory guidelines need to be developed as new
treatment options are being investigated. From a broad spectrum of potential
mechanisms encompassing central nervous system targets and peripheral targets for
pharmacological intervention, a few promising molecular targets have emerged.
Modulating these is expected to treat at least some components of metabolic
syndrome.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.13.9.1203 
PMID: 15330751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2787. J Vis. 2004 Aug 9;4(7):643-63.

Lateral interactions in the perception of flicker and in the physiology of the
lateral geniculate nucleus.

Kremers J(1), Kozyrev V, Silveira LC, Kilavik BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Tübingen Eye Hospital,
Tübingen, Germany. jan.kremers@uni-tuebingen.de

The perception of flicker strength in a center stimulus can be affected by the
presence of a surrounding stimulus. We correlated this effect with the
interactions between centers and surrounds of the receptive fields (RFs) of
neurons in the retino-geniculate pathways. The responses of cells in the lateral 
geniculate nucleus (LGN) of two New World monkey species, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), and the owl monkey (Aotus azarae) were measured to two
spatially non-overlapping sinusoidally modulating luminance stimuli of equal
temporal frequency, one of which mainly stimulated the RF center, the other the
RF surround. The relative temporal phase between the center and surround stimuli 
was varied. The response amplitude as a function of relative phase between the
center and surround stimuli can be described by a simple model where the RF
center and surround responses are vector-added. A minimal response was reached
for stimuli in which the surround stimulus led the center stimulus, indicating
that the RF surround response lagged the center response. The flicker strength in
the center stimulus perceived by human observers was measured psychophysically.
It was found that the perceived flicker strength could be described by the same
function as was used for the cell data. There were qualitative similarities
between the physiological and the psychophysical data, suggesting that the
physiological basis of the psychophysically measured spatial interactions is
present as early as the LGN. The data indicated the presence of a nonlinearity in
center-surround interactions that is influenced by the stimulus contrast. The
possible source of this nonlinearity was studied by comparing the center and the 
surround responses with those in which they were selectively stimulated.

DOI: 10.1167/4.7.10 
PMID: 15330708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

