

2787. J Vis. 2004 Aug 9;4(7):643-63.

Lateral interactions in the perception of flicker and in the physiology of the
lateral geniculate nucleus.

Kremers J(1), Kozyrev V, Silveira LC, Kilavik BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Tübingen Eye Hospital,
Tübingen, Germany. jan.kremers@uni-tuebingen.de

The perception of flicker strength in a center stimulus can be affected by the
presence of a surrounding stimulus. We correlated this effect with the
interactions between centers and surrounds of the receptive fields (RFs) of
neurons in the retino-geniculate pathways. The responses of cells in the lateral 
geniculate nucleus (LGN) of two New World monkey species, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), and the owl monkey (Aotus azarae) were measured to two
spatially non-overlapping sinusoidally modulating luminance stimuli of equal
temporal frequency, one of which mainly stimulated the RF center, the other the
RF surround. The relative temporal phase between the center and surround stimuli 
was varied. The response amplitude as a function of relative phase between the
center and surround stimuli can be described by a simple model where the RF
center and surround responses are vector-added. A minimal response was reached
for stimuli in which the surround stimulus led the center stimulus, indicating
that the RF surround response lagged the center response. The flicker strength in
the center stimulus perceived by human observers was measured psychophysically.
It was found that the perceived flicker strength could be described by the same
function as was used for the cell data. There were qualitative similarities
between the physiological and the psychophysical data, suggesting that the
physiological basis of the psychophysically measured spatial interactions is
present as early as the LGN. The data indicated the presence of a nonlinearity in
center-surround interactions that is influenced by the stimulus contrast. The
possible source of this nonlinearity was studied by comparing the center and the 
surround responses with those in which they were selectively stimulated.

DOI: 10.1167/4.7.10 
PMID: 15330708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2788. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2004 May-Jun;37(3):222-8.

Experimental schistosomiasis in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

de Oliveira AL(1), Malagueño E, Telles AM, Madruga MH, de Santana JV.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biofisica e Radiobiologia da Universidade Federal de
Pernambuco, Recife, PE. lunadeoliveira@hotmail.com

In order to evaluate Callithrix jacchus as an animal model for mansoni
schistosomiasis, a group of 10 male animals were once percutaneously exposed to
250 cercariae of the Schistosoma mansoni SLM (São Lourenço da Mata) strain.
Animals were periodically bled for measuring serum level of enzymes and proteins 
and for blood cell counting. When comparing pre-infection to post-infection
values, a significant increase was found for alkaline phosphatase at 15 to 120
days p.i., differential counts of eosinophil at 45 and 60 days, and total protein
and global eosinophil counts at 120 days. No Schistosoma mansoni eggs were found 
in stools. Adult worms of small size were recovered from five animals. At day
120, the number of Schistosoma mansoni eggs/g of tissue was 0-289.7 (liver),
0-30.1 (large intestine) and 0-171.4 (small intestine). These findings lead us to
classify Callithrix jacchus as a non-permissive host to the SLM strain of
Schistosoma mansoni.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822004000300006 
PMID: 15330061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

