

2788. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2004 May-Jun;37(3):222-8.

Experimental schistosomiasis in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

de Oliveira AL(1), Malagueño E, Telles AM, Madruga MH, de Santana JV.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biofisica e Radiobiologia da Universidade Federal de
Pernambuco, Recife, PE. lunadeoliveira@hotmail.com

In order to evaluate Callithrix jacchus as an animal model for mansoni
schistosomiasis, a group of 10 male animals were once percutaneously exposed to
250 cercariae of the Schistosoma mansoni SLM (São Lourenço da Mata) strain.
Animals were periodically bled for measuring serum level of enzymes and proteins 
and for blood cell counting. When comparing pre-infection to post-infection
values, a significant increase was found for alkaline phosphatase at 15 to 120
days p.i., differential counts of eosinophil at 45 and 60 days, and total protein
and global eosinophil counts at 120 days. No Schistosoma mansoni eggs were found 
in stools. Adult worms of small size were recovered from five animals. At day
120, the number of Schistosoma mansoni eggs/g of tissue was 0-289.7 (liver),
0-30.1 (large intestine) and 0-171.4 (small intestine). These findings lead us to
classify Callithrix jacchus as a non-permissive host to the SLM strain of
Schistosoma mansoni.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822004000300006 
PMID: 15330061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2789. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2004 Jul-Aug;27(4):171-7.

Levetiracetam Interferes With the L-dopa priming process in MPTP-lesioned
drug-naive marmosets.

Hill MP(1), Brotchie JM, Crossman AR, Bezard E, Michel A, Grimée R, Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience, Ltd., Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Levetiracetam (LEV; Keppra, UCB Pharma) has been shown to reduce
established l-3,4 dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa)-induced dyskinesia. This study 
investigated whether LEV can modify induction of dyskinesia by l-dopa or the
process of priming.
METHODS: Drug-naive MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) -lesioned
marmosets were treated for 21 days with l-dopa/LEV or l-dopa alone. Subsequently,
the animals were left untreated for 1 week and then both groups were challenged
with a single dose of l-dopa alone on day 29. Behavior was assessed by automated 
activity counts and by post hoc analysis of videotapes using validated rating
scales.
RESULTS: LEV had no significant effect on the appearance of dyskinesia when
administered de novo in combination with l-dopa. However, after a week of drug
holiday, the 2 groups exhibited a different response to an acute l-dopa
challenge. Thus, animals previously treated with l-dopa alone exhibited a similar
level of dyskinesia to that seen on day 21 of the repeated treatment phase of the
study. However, animals previously treated with l-dopa/LEV demonstrated
significantly reduced dyskinesia compared with day 21 of the repeated treatment
phase of the study.
CONCLUSIONS: LEV does not modify the onset of dyskinesia following de novo
treatment with l-dopa. However, concomitant treatment with l-dopa/LEV reduces the
level of dyskinesia induced by l-dopa following a drug holiday. Thus, prior
treatment with LEV appears to modify the mechanisms responsible for the
maintenance of l-dopa-induced dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1097/01.wnf.0000135478.70905.3d 
PMID: 15319703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

