

279. Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2020 Oct;35(5):475-478. doi:
10.1016/j.dmpk.2020.06.001. Epub 2020 Jun 20.

Molecular cloning and tissue distribution of marmoset thiopurine
S-methyltransferase.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Japan.
(2)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Japan. Electronic address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World monkey that is
increasingly used in pharmacological and toxicological studies. Thiopurine
S-methyltransferase (TPMT) plays roles in the metabolism of widely used
anticancer and anti-inflammatory drugs. Here, we report the isolation and
molecular characterization of marmoset TPMT cDNA, which was found to contain an
open-reading frame of 245 amino acids that was approximately 92% identical to its
human ortholog. Marmoset TPMT was phylogenetically closer to other primate
orthologs than to its pig, dog, rabbit, or rodent orthologs. Among the five
marmoset tissue types analyzed, marmoset TPMT mRNA was most abundant in kidney
and liver, just as human TPMT is. These results suggest that marmoset and human
TPMT are similar at the molecular level.

Copyright © 2020 The Japanese Society for the Study of Xenobiotics. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dmpk.2020.06.001 
PMID: 32788077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


280. Vet Pathol. 2020 Sep;57(5):681-686. doi: 10.1177/0300985820941271. Epub 2020 Aug 
12.

Histopathologic Patterns and Susceptibility of Neotropical Primates Naturally
Infected With Yellow Fever Virus.

Santos DOD(1), de Oliveira AR(1), de Lucena FP(2), de Mattos SA(2), de Carvalho
TP(1), Costa FB(1), Moreira LGA(1), Paixão TAD(1), Santos RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)28114Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(2)Instituto Municipal de Medicina Veterinária Jorge Vaistman, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.

Yellow fever is an important zoonotic viral disease that can be fatal for both
human and nonhuman primates. We evaluated histopathologic changes in free-ranging
neotropical primates naturally infected with yellow fever virus (YFV) compared
with uninfected cohorts. The most frequent lesions in primates infected with YFV 
were hepatic changes characterized by midzonal necrosis with lipidosis and mild
inflammation including lymphocytes, macrophages, plasma cells, and infrequently
neutrophils. Importantly, severe necrotizing hepatic lesions were often observed 
in Alouatta sp. (howler monkeys), whereas Callithrix sp. (common marmosets) had
nearly no hepatic changes. Moderate to severe hepatic necrosis was present in
21/23 (91%) of the YFV-positive Alouatta sp. compared with 10/29 (34%) of the
YFV-positive Callithrix sp. (P < .0001; odds ratio = 20). Similarly, hepatitis
was more intense in Alouatta sp. compared with Callithrix sp. Furthermore, the
frequency of YFV infection was significantly higher in Alouatta sp. compared with
Callithrix sp. or Sapajus sp. (capuchin monkeys). Therefore, these data support
the notion that Alouatta sp. is highly susceptible to infection and YFV-induced
lesions, whereas Callithrix sp. is susceptible to infection but has a lower
frequency of YFV-induced lesions.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985820941271 
PMID: 32783517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

