

2792. J Gen Virol. 2004 Sep;85(Pt 9):2525-2533. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.80036-0.

GB virus B infection of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and associated
liver pathology.

Jacob JR(1), Lin KC(2), Tennant BC(1), Mansfield KG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell
University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.
(2)Division of Clinical Research, New England Regional Primate Research Center,
Harvard Medical School, PO Box 9102, One Pine Hill Drive, Southborough, MA
01772-9102, USA.

GB virus B (GBV-B) is a flavivirus that is related closely to hepatitis C virus
(HCV) and induces an acute hepatitis when inoculated into several species of New 
World primates. Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are a widely available,
non-endangered primate species that is susceptible to GBV-B infection and
develops a characteristic acute hepatitis. Here, animals were found to be
susceptible to serially passaged serum and GBV-B transcripts. Hepatic pathology
and peripheral viraemia could be quantified biochemically, immunophenotypically
and morphologically, and persisted for periods of up to 6 months in some animals.
Hepatitis was characterized by a marked influx of CD3+ CD8+ T lymphocytes and
CD20+ B cells within the first 2 months of primary infection. The results of this
study document the marmoset as another small, non-human primate species in which 
the pathogenesis of GBV-B can be studied and used as a surrogate model of HCV
infection for investigation of pathogenesis and antiviral drug development.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.80036-0 
PMID: 15302946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2793. Hippocampus. 2004;14(5):615-27.

Co-expression of calretinin and gamma-aminobutyric acid in neurons of the
entorhinal cortex of the common marmoset monkey.

Pothuizen HH(1), Feldon J, Jongen-RÃªlo AL.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing interneuron population in the
entorhinal cortex has been shown to consist of several subpopulations. In
addition to GABA, these neurons contain another neurochemical substance, such as 
a neuropeptide or a calcium binding protein. In the present study, we examined
the co-localization of calretinin and GABA in the entorhinal cortex of the common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus, a New World monkey. Although the function of
calretinin remains unclear, there are indications that it might have a protective
role against cell death in a number of neuropathological diseases. Furthermore,
it might have a regulatory role in the neurotransmission of GABAergic neurons. In
contrast to the rat brain, sparse data exist regarding the degree of
co-expression of these two markers in the monkey brain. Using immunofluorescence 
and confocal laser scanning microscopy, we found that an average of 56% of the
calretinin-positive neurons in the monkey entorhinal cortex contained GABA,
whereas about 27% of the GABA-positive neurons co-expressed calretinin.
Interestingly, these numbers were higher in the superficial layers of the
entorhinal cortex in comparison with the deep layers. However, no differences
were found in co-localization percentages between the different entorhinal
subfields. In general, the degree of co-localization was higher in comparison to 
findings in the rat entorhinal cortex. The higher amount of co-localization
observed in the present study might reflect species differences between the
primate and the non-primate brain.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.10204 
PMID: 15301438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

