

2793. Hippocampus. 2004;14(5):615-27.

Co-expression of calretinin and gamma-aminobutyric acid in neurons of the
entorhinal cortex of the common marmoset monkey.

Pothuizen HH(1), Feldon J, Jongen-RÃªlo AL.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing interneuron population in the
entorhinal cortex has been shown to consist of several subpopulations. In
addition to GABA, these neurons contain another neurochemical substance, such as 
a neuropeptide or a calcium binding protein. In the present study, we examined
the co-localization of calretinin and GABA in the entorhinal cortex of the common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus, a New World monkey. Although the function of
calretinin remains unclear, there are indications that it might have a protective
role against cell death in a number of neuropathological diseases. Furthermore,
it might have a regulatory role in the neurotransmission of GABAergic neurons. In
contrast to the rat brain, sparse data exist regarding the degree of
co-expression of these two markers in the monkey brain. Using immunofluorescence 
and confocal laser scanning microscopy, we found that an average of 56% of the
calretinin-positive neurons in the monkey entorhinal cortex contained GABA,
whereas about 27% of the GABA-positive neurons co-expressed calretinin.
Interestingly, these numbers were higher in the superficial layers of the
entorhinal cortex in comparison with the deep layers. However, no differences
were found in co-localization percentages between the different entorhinal
subfields. In general, the degree of co-localization was higher in comparison to 
findings in the rat entorhinal cortex. The higher amount of co-localization
observed in the present study might reflect species differences between the
primate and the non-primate brain.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.10204 
PMID: 15301438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2794. J Hum Evol. 2004 Jul-Aug;47(1-2):85-94.

Locomotor mechanics of the slender loris (Loris tardigradus).

Schmitt D(1), Lemelin P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Box 3170, Durham, NC 27710, USA. Daniel_Schmitt@baa.mc.duke.edu

The quadrupedal walking gaits of most primates can be distinguished from those of
most other mammals by the presence of diagonal-sequence (DS) footfall patterns
and higher peak vertical forces on the hindlimbs compared to the forelimbs. The
walking gait of the woolly opossum (Caluromys philander), a highly arboreal
marsupial, is also characterized by diagonal-sequence footfalls and relatively
low peak forelimb forces. Among primates, three species--Callithrix, Nycticebus, 
and Loris--have been reported to frequently use lateral-sequence (LS) gaits and
experience relatively higher peak vertical forces on the forelimbs. These
patterns among primates and other mammals suggest a strong association between
footfall patterns and force distribution on the limbs. However, current data for 
lorises are limited and the frequency of DS vs. LS walking gaits in Loris is
still ambiguous. To test the hypothesis that patterns of footfalls and force
distribution on the limbs are functionally linked, kinematic and kinetic data
were collected simultaneously for three adult slender lorises (Loris tardigradus)
walking on a 1.25 cm horizontal pole. All subjects in this study consistently
used diagonal-sequence walking gaits and always had higher peak vertical forces
on their forelimbs relative to their hindlimbs. These results call into question 
the hypothesis that a functional link exists between the presence of
diagonal-sequence walking gaits and relatively higher peak vertical forces on the
hindlimbs. In addition, this study tested models that explain patterns of force
distribution based on limb protraction angle or limb compliance. None of the
Loris subjects examined showed kinematic patterns that would support current
models proposing that weight distribution can be adjusted by actively shifting
weight posteriorly or by changing limb stiffness. These data reveal the
complexity of adaptations to arboreal locomotion in primates and indicate that
diagonal-sequence walking gaits and relatively low forelimb forces could have
evolved independently.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2004.05.006 
PMID: 15288525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

