

2795. J Morphol. 2004 Sep;261(3):276-85.

Comparative analysis of masseter fiber architecture in tree-gouging (Callithrix
jacchus) and nongouging (Saguinus oedipus) callitrichids.

Taylor AB(1), Vinyard CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Duke University School of
Medicine, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. andrea.taylor@duke.edu

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) 
(Callitrichidae, Primates) share a broadly similar diet of fruits, insects, and
tree exudates. Common marmosets, however, differ from tamarins by actively
gouging trees with their anterior teeth to elicit tree exudate flow. During tree 
gouging, marmosets produce relatively large jaw gapes, but do not necessarily
produce relatively large bite forces at the anterior teeth. We compared the fiber
architecture of the masseter muscle in tree-gouging Callithrix jacchus (n = 10)
to nongouging Saguinus oedipus (n = 8) to determine whether the marmoset masseter
facilitates producing these large gapes during tree gouging. We predict that the 
marmoset masseter has relatively longer fibers and, hence, greater potential
muscle excursion (i.e., a greater range of motion through increased muscle
stretch). Conversely, because of the expected trade-off between excursion and
force production in muscle architecture, we predict that the cotton-top tamarin
masseter has more pinnate fibers and increased physiological cross-sectional area
(PCSA) as compared to common marmosets. Likewise, the S. oedipus masseter is
predicted to have a greater proportion of tendon relative to muscle fiber as
compared to the common marmoset masseter. Common marmosets have absolutely and
relatively longer masseter fibers than cotton-top tamarins. Given that fiber
length is directly proportional to muscle excursion and by extension contraction 
velocity, this result suggests that marmosets have masseters designed for
relatively greater stretching and, hence, larger gapes. Conversely, the
cotton-top tamarin masseter has a greater angle of pinnation (but not
significantly so), larger PCSA, and higher proportion of tendon. The
significantly larger PCSA in the tamarin masseter suggests that their masseter
has relatively greater force production capabilities as compared to marmosets.
Collectively, these results suggest that the fiber architecture of the common
marmoset masseter is part of a suite of features of the masticatory apparatus
that facilitates the production of relatively large gapes during tree gouging.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmor.10249 
PMID: 15281057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2796. J Virol. 2004 Aug;78(16):8878-84.

Expression in a recombinant murid herpesvirus 4 reveals the in vivo transforming 
potential of the K1 open reading frame of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated
herpesvirus.

Douglas J(1), Dutia B, Rhind S, Stewart JP, Talbot SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Infectious Diseases, University of Edinburgh, Summerhall, Edinburgh
EH9 1QH, United Kingdom.

Murid herpesvirus 4 (commonly called MHV-68) is closely related to Kaposi's
sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) and provides an excellent model system for 
investigating gammaherpesvirus-associated pathogenesis. MHV-76 is a naturally
occurring deletion mutant of MHV-68 that lacks 9,538 bp of the left end of the
unique portion of the genome encoding nonessential pathogenesis-related genes.
The KSHV K1 protein has been shown to transform rodent fibroblasts in vitro and
common marmoset T lymphocytes in vivo. Using homologous recombination techniques,
we successfully generated recombinants of MHV-76 that encode green fluorescent
protein (MHV76-GFP) and KSHV K1 (MHV76-K1). The replication of MHV76-GFP and
MHV76-K1 in cell culture was identical to that of MHV-76. However, infection of
BALB/c mice via the intranasal route revealed that MHV76-K1 replicated to a
10-fold higher titer than MHV76-GFP in the lungs at day 5 postinfection (p.i.).
We observed type 2 pneumocyte proliferation in areas of consolidation and
interstitial inflammation of mice infected with MHV76-K1 at day 10 p.i. MHV76-K1 
established a 2- to 3-fold higher latent viral load than MHV76-GFP in the spleens
of infected mice on days 10 and 14 p.i., although this was 10-fold lower than
that established by wild-type MHV-76. A salivary gland tumor was present in one
of four mice infected with MHV76-K1, as well as an increased inflammatory
response in the lungs at day 120 p.i. compared with that of mice infected with
MHV-76 and MHV76-GFP.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.78.16.8878-8884.2004 
PMCID: PMC479053
PMID: 15280496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

