

2796. J Virol. 2004 Aug;78(16):8878-84.

Expression in a recombinant murid herpesvirus 4 reveals the in vivo transforming 
potential of the K1 open reading frame of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated
herpesvirus.

Douglas J(1), Dutia B, Rhind S, Stewart JP, Talbot SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Infectious Diseases, University of Edinburgh, Summerhall, Edinburgh
EH9 1QH, United Kingdom.

Murid herpesvirus 4 (commonly called MHV-68) is closely related to Kaposi's
sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) and provides an excellent model system for 
investigating gammaherpesvirus-associated pathogenesis. MHV-76 is a naturally
occurring deletion mutant of MHV-68 that lacks 9,538 bp of the left end of the
unique portion of the genome encoding nonessential pathogenesis-related genes.
The KSHV K1 protein has been shown to transform rodent fibroblasts in vitro and
common marmoset T lymphocytes in vivo. Using homologous recombination techniques,
we successfully generated recombinants of MHV-76 that encode green fluorescent
protein (MHV76-GFP) and KSHV K1 (MHV76-K1). The replication of MHV76-GFP and
MHV76-K1 in cell culture was identical to that of MHV-76. However, infection of
BALB/c mice via the intranasal route revealed that MHV76-K1 replicated to a
10-fold higher titer than MHV76-GFP in the lungs at day 5 postinfection (p.i.).
We observed type 2 pneumocyte proliferation in areas of consolidation and
interstitial inflammation of mice infected with MHV76-K1 at day 10 p.i. MHV76-K1 
established a 2- to 3-fold higher latent viral load than MHV76-GFP in the spleens
of infected mice on days 10 and 14 p.i., although this was 10-fold lower than
that established by wild-type MHV-76. A salivary gland tumor was present in one
of four mice infected with MHV76-K1, as well as an increased inflammatory
response in the lungs at day 120 p.i. compared with that of mice infected with
MHV-76 and MHV76-GFP.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.78.16.8878-8884.2004 
PMCID: PMC479053
PMID: 15280496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2797. Acta Otolaryngol Suppl. 2004 Aug;(553):80-4.

Olfactory impairment and Parkinson's disease-like symptoms observed in the common
marmoset following administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Miwa T(1), Watanabe A, Mitsumoto Y, Furukawa M, Fukushima N, Moriizumi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Kanazawa University Graduate School of
Medicine, Kanazawa, Japan. miwataka@orl.m.kanazawa-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: Although olfactory disturbance appears to occur in the early stages of
Parkinson's disease (PD) in humans, little is known about its mechanism. The aim 
of this study was to make a PD model using injection of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the common marmoset and to
discover the mechanism of olfactory disturbance in this animal.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Olfactory disturbance induced by MPTP in the common
marmoset was observed by behavioral, biochemical and immunohistochemical means.
RESULTS: Administration of MPTP caused common marmosets to enter an akinetic
state within a few days and to show signs of impaired olfactory function.
Biochemical study showed a decrease in dopamine levels, especially in tissue
samples from the caudate nucleus and putamen. Immunohistochemical analysis
revealed a lack of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, not only in the
substantia nigra, caudate nucleus and putamen but also in the olfactory tubercle.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that MPTP causes both PD-like symptoms and 
olfactory disturbance in the common marmoset. The olfactory disturbance observed 
in these animals may be due to the lack of dopamine in the olfactory tubercle.

DOI: 10.1080/03655230410017724 
PMID: 15277042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

