

2797. Acta Otolaryngol Suppl. 2004 Aug;(553):80-4.

Olfactory impairment and Parkinson's disease-like symptoms observed in the common
marmoset following administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Miwa T(1), Watanabe A, Mitsumoto Y, Furukawa M, Fukushima N, Moriizumi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Kanazawa University Graduate School of
Medicine, Kanazawa, Japan. miwataka@orl.m.kanazawa-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: Although olfactory disturbance appears to occur in the early stages of
Parkinson's disease (PD) in humans, little is known about its mechanism. The aim 
of this study was to make a PD model using injection of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the common marmoset and to
discover the mechanism of olfactory disturbance in this animal.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Olfactory disturbance induced by MPTP in the common
marmoset was observed by behavioral, biochemical and immunohistochemical means.
RESULTS: Administration of MPTP caused common marmosets to enter an akinetic
state within a few days and to show signs of impaired olfactory function.
Biochemical study showed a decrease in dopamine levels, especially in tissue
samples from the caudate nucleus and putamen. Immunohistochemical analysis
revealed a lack of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, not only in the
substantia nigra, caudate nucleus and putamen but also in the olfactory tubercle.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that MPTP causes both PD-like symptoms and 
olfactory disturbance in the common marmoset. The olfactory disturbance observed 
in these animals may be due to the lack of dopamine in the olfactory tubercle.

DOI: 10.1080/03655230410017724 
PMID: 15277042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2798. Virology. 2004 Aug 15;326(1):67-78.

Characterization of the Herpesvirus saimiri Orf51 protein.

Means RE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street,
New Haven, CT 06510, USA. robert_means@hms.harvard.edu

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is a gamma(2)-herpesvirus sharing genomic colinearity
and a high degree of functional homology with HHV-8. To begin exploring the
correlates of HVS infectivity and neutralization, we designed and implemented a
new reporter assay. Using this assay, we could demonstrate that HVS neutralizing 
antibodies are present at high levels in naturally infected squirrel monkeys and 
are strongly induced after pathogenic, experimental infection of common
marmosets. Further, we demonstrated that viral entry is influenced by cellular
glycosaminoglycans and that, similar to HHV-8, soluble heparin is capable of
blocking infectivity. We next cloned and characterized the positional homologue
of HHV-8 K8.1, HVS Orf51. N-glycosidase F treatment indicates that like K8.1,
Orf51 is a glycoprotein. Found in the viral particle, it localizes to the
endoplasmic reticulum of expressing cells. Like K8.1, Orf51 could bind to
agarose-conjugated heparin, implicating this molecule in viral attachment to
cells. These studies provide the groundwork for additional experiments into the
role that this protein may be playing in viral pathogenicity, persistence, and
cell tropism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2004.05.015 
PMID: 15262496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

