

2798. Virology. 2004 Aug 15;326(1):67-78.

Characterization of the Herpesvirus saimiri Orf51 protein.

Means RE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street,
New Haven, CT 06510, USA. robert_means@hms.harvard.edu

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is a gamma(2)-herpesvirus sharing genomic colinearity
and a high degree of functional homology with HHV-8. To begin exploring the
correlates of HVS infectivity and neutralization, we designed and implemented a
new reporter assay. Using this assay, we could demonstrate that HVS neutralizing 
antibodies are present at high levels in naturally infected squirrel monkeys and 
are strongly induced after pathogenic, experimental infection of common
marmosets. Further, we demonstrated that viral entry is influenced by cellular
glycosaminoglycans and that, similar to HHV-8, soluble heparin is capable of
blocking infectivity. We next cloned and characterized the positional homologue
of HHV-8 K8.1, HVS Orf51. N-glycosidase F treatment indicates that like K8.1,
Orf51 is a glycoprotein. Found in the viral particle, it localizes to the
endoplasmic reticulum of expressing cells. Like K8.1, Orf51 could bind to
agarose-conjugated heparin, implicating this molecule in viral attachment to
cells. These studies provide the groundwork for additional experiments into the
role that this protein may be playing in viral pathogenicity, persistence, and
cell tropism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2004.05.015 
PMID: 15262496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2799. Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2072-83.

Frontline: Epitope recognition on the myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
differentially influences disease phenotype and antibody effector functions in
autoimmune demyelination.

von BÃ¼dingen HC(1), Hauser SL, Ouallet JC, Tanuma N, Menge T, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of California-San
Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2065-71.

Preliminary observations of humoral immunity against the myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG) in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) and human
multiple sclerosis (MS) suggest that a subset of anti-MOG autoantibodies directed
against conformational epitopes is of pathogenic predominance. Here, we provide
proof that in marmoset EAE, autoantibodies reactive against conformational
epitopes of MOG are not only responsible for aggravating demyelination, but also 
an essential factor for disease dissemination in space within the central nervous
system, a hallmark for typical forms of human MS. In terms of effector
mechanisms, IgG deposition and complement activation occur exclusively in
association with presence of these conformational antibodies, while
microglial/macrophage activation appears to be a common immunopathological
finding regardless of the fine determinant specificity of anti-MOG antibodies.
These findings highlight for the first time the complex heterogeneity of function
and pathogenicity in the polyclonal anti-MOG antibody repertoire of outbred
species. Because the linear and conformational antibody determinants of MOG are
shared between marmosets and humans, these results are directly relevant to
understanding effector mechanisms of organ damage in MS.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200425050 
PMID: 15259004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

