

2799. Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2072-83.

Frontline: Epitope recognition on the myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
differentially influences disease phenotype and antibody effector functions in
autoimmune demyelination.

von Büdingen HC(1), Hauser SL, Ouallet JC, Tanuma N, Menge T, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of California-San
Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2065-71.

Preliminary observations of humoral immunity against the myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG) in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) and human
multiple sclerosis (MS) suggest that a subset of anti-MOG autoantibodies directed
against conformational epitopes is of pathogenic predominance. Here, we provide
proof that in marmoset EAE, autoantibodies reactive against conformational
epitopes of MOG are not only responsible for aggravating demyelination, but also 
an essential factor for disease dissemination in space within the central nervous
system, a hallmark for typical forms of human MS. In terms of effector
mechanisms, IgG deposition and complement activation occur exclusively in
association with presence of these conformational antibodies, while
microglial/macrophage activation appears to be a common immunopathological
finding regardless of the fine determinant specificity of anti-MOG antibodies.
These findings highlight for the first time the complex heterogeneity of function
and pathogenicity in the polyclonal anti-MOG antibody repertoire of outbred
species. Because the linear and conformational antibody determinants of MOG are
shared between marmosets and humans, these results are directly relevant to
understanding effector mechanisms of organ damage in MS.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200425050 
PMID: 15259004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2800. Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2065-71.

Commentary: Sorting the wheat from the chaff: identifying demyelinating
components of the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-specific autoantibody
repertoire.

Mathey E(1), Breithaupt C, Schubart AS, Linington C.

Author information: 
(1)University of Aberdeen, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Foresterhill, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, Scotland, GB.

Comment on
    Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2072-83.

Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is the only myelin protein known to
initiate a demyelinating autoantibody response in EAE, an animal model for
multiple sclerosis (MS). The pathophysiological significance of MOG-specific
autoantibodies in MS is, however, controversial, as high titer antibody responses
to MOG are also found in many patients with non-demyelinating neurological
diseases. In this issue of the European Journal of Immunology, von Büdingen et
al. demonstrate that demyelination in a primate model of MOG-induced EAE is
mediated by MOG-specific antibodies directed against discontinuous, rather than
linear, MOG epitopes. This functional segregation of pathogenic vs.
non-pathogenic autoantibodies in terms of epitope specificity may be crucial to
understand the relevance of MOG-specific responses in human disease. This
commentary discusses these findings in the context of the structure and
immunobiology of MOG, and their implications with respect to antibody-mediated
demyelination in MS.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200425291 
PMID: 15259003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

