

280. Vet Pathol. 2020 Sep;57(5):681-686. doi: 10.1177/0300985820941271. Epub 2020 Aug 
12.

Histopathologic Patterns and Susceptibility of Neotropical Primates Naturally
Infected With Yellow Fever Virus.

Santos DOD(1), de Oliveira AR(1), de Lucena FP(2), de Mattos SA(2), de Carvalho
TP(1), Costa FB(1), Moreira LGA(1), Paixão TAD(1), Santos RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)28114Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(2)Instituto Municipal de Medicina Veterinária Jorge Vaistman, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.

Yellow fever is an important zoonotic viral disease that can be fatal for both
human and nonhuman primates. We evaluated histopathologic changes in free-ranging
neotropical primates naturally infected with yellow fever virus (YFV) compared
with uninfected cohorts. The most frequent lesions in primates infected with YFV 
were hepatic changes characterized by midzonal necrosis with lipidosis and mild
inflammation including lymphocytes, macrophages, plasma cells, and infrequently
neutrophils. Importantly, severe necrotizing hepatic lesions were often observed 
in Alouatta sp. (howler monkeys), whereas Callithrix sp. (common marmosets) had
nearly no hepatic changes. Moderate to severe hepatic necrosis was present in
21/23 (91%) of the YFV-positive Alouatta sp. compared with 10/29 (34%) of the
YFV-positive Callithrix sp. (P < .0001; odds ratio = 20). Similarly, hepatitis
was more intense in Alouatta sp. compared with Callithrix sp. Furthermore, the
frequency of YFV infection was significantly higher in Alouatta sp. compared with
Callithrix sp. or Sapajus sp. (capuchin monkeys). Therefore, these data support
the notion that Alouatta sp. is highly susceptible to infection and YFV-induced
lesions, whereas Callithrix sp. is susceptible to infection but has a lower
frequency of YFV-induced lesions.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985820941271 
PMID: 32783517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2020 Oct;35(5):479-482. doi:
10.1016/j.dmpk.2020.06.002. Epub 2020 Jun 20.

Molecular cloning, sequence analysis, and tissue distribution of marmoset
monoamine oxidases A and B.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Japan.
(2)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Japan. Electronic address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate, is currently
attracting much attention as a nonhuman primate model for pharmacological and
pharmacokinetic studies in preclinical research. In this study, we newly isolated
the cDNAs of marmoset monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) and MAO-B from liver and brain,
respectively. MAO-A and MAO-B cDNAs, respectively, contained open reading frames 
of 527 and 520 amino acids and were approximately 92% and 95% identical to their 
human orthologs. Marmoset MAOs were phylogenetically closer to primate MAOs,
including human MAOs, than to pig, dog, or rodent MAOs. The genomic and gene
structures of marmoset MAOs were similar to those of humans. Among the five
marmoset tissue types analyzed, the expression levels of MAO-A mRNA were
relatively abundant in lung, liver, kidney, and small intestine, whereas the
expression levels of MAO-B mRNA were relatively abundant in brain, liver, kidney,
and small intestine; these tissue distributions are similar to those of human
MAOs. These results suggest that MAO-A and MAO-B are similar at a molecular level
in marmosets and humans.

Copyright © 2020 The Japanese Society for the Study of Xenobiotics. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dmpk.2020.06.002 
PMID: 32782138  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.

