

2800. Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2065-71.

Commentary: Sorting the wheat from the chaff: identifying demyelinating
components of the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-specific autoantibody
repertoire.

Mathey E(1), Breithaupt C, Schubart AS, Linington C.

Author information: 
(1)University of Aberdeen, Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Foresterhill, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, Scotland, GB.

Comment on
    Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2072-83.

Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is the only myelin protein known to
initiate a demyelinating autoantibody response in EAE, an animal model for
multiple sclerosis (MS). The pathophysiological significance of MOG-specific
autoantibodies in MS is, however, controversial, as high titer antibody responses
to MOG are also found in many patients with non-demyelinating neurological
diseases. In this issue of the European Journal of Immunology, von BÃ¼dingen et
al. demonstrate that demyelination in a primate model of MOG-induced EAE is
mediated by MOG-specific antibodies directed against discontinuous, rather than
linear, MOG epitopes. This functional segregation of pathogenic vs.
non-pathogenic autoantibodies in terms of epitope specificity may be crucial to
understand the relevance of MOG-specific responses in human disease. This
commentary discusses these findings in the context of the structure and
immunobiology of MOG, and their implications with respect to antibody-mediated
demyelination in MS.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200425291 
PMID: 15259003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2801. Primates. 2004 Oct;45(4):259-65. Epub 2004 Jul 10.

Analysis of infant carrying in large, well-established family groups of captive
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Mills DA(1), Windle CP, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

To assess the pattern of infant carrying across time and family members, we
counted which animals in 13 well-established family groups of captive-bred
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) carried neonates during the first 8 weeks of life.
The neonates were carried almost continuously for the first 3 weeks and then
spent progressively more time independently. The mother did most of the carrying 
for the first 2 weeks, her contribution rising from day 1 to day 3 and declining 
thereafter. The contribution of the father was high on day 1, declined during the
first week, and then rose to a peak in the fourth week. The contribution of the
siblings rose sharply during the first week and declined thereafter. There was no
overall difference in amount of infant carrying by each parent. The contribution 
of each sibling was small although in these large families the total contribution
by siblings was large. These data may differ from previous observations because
the breeding pairs were very well established, the families were large, and all
except the youngest animals were very experienced in rearing and carrying. These 
data emphasise the group-dynamic nature of infant carrying in a primate species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-004-0095-7 
PMID: 15248087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

