

2801. Primates. 2004 Oct;45(4):259-65. Epub 2004 Jul 10.

Analysis of infant carrying in large, well-established family groups of captive
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Mills DA(1), Windle CP, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

To assess the pattern of infant carrying across time and family members, we
counted which animals in 13 well-established family groups of captive-bred
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) carried neonates during the first 8 weeks of life.
The neonates were carried almost continuously for the first 3 weeks and then
spent progressively more time independently. The mother did most of the carrying 
for the first 2 weeks, her contribution rising from day 1 to day 3 and declining 
thereafter. The contribution of the father was high on day 1, declined during the
first week, and then rose to a peak in the fourth week. The contribution of the
siblings rose sharply during the first week and declined thereafter. There was no
overall difference in amount of infant carrying by each parent. The contribution 
of each sibling was small although in these large families the total contribution
by siblings was large. These data may differ from previous observations because
the breeding pairs were very well established, the families were large, and all
except the youngest animals were very experienced in rearing and carrying. These 
data emphasise the group-dynamic nature of infant carrying in a primate species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-004-0095-7 
PMID: 15248087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2802. Exp Neurol. 2004 Aug;188(2):471-9.

The NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist CP-101,606 exacerbates L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia and provides mild potentiation of anti-parkinsonian effects of L-DOPA 
in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.

Nash JE(1), Ravenscroft P, McGuire S, Crossman AR, Menniti FS, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, ON, M5T 2S8 Canada.
jnash@uhnres.utoronto.ca

In Parkinson's disease (PD), degeneration of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal
pathway leads to enhanced transmission at NMDA receptors containing NR2B
subunits. Previous studies have shown that some, but not all, NR2B-containing
NMDA receptor antagonists alleviate parkinsonian symptoms in animal models of PD.
Furthermore, enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated transmission underlies the
generation of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). The subunit content of NMDA
receptors responsible for LID is not clear. Here, we assess the actions of the
NMDA antagonist CP-101,606 in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. CP-101,606 is selective
for NMDA receptors containing NR2B subunits, with higher affinity for NR1/NR2B
complexes compared to ternary NR1/NR2A/NR2B complexes. CP-101,606 had no
significant effect on parkinsonian symptoms when administered as monotherapy over
a range of doses (0.1-10 mg/kg). CP-101,606 provided a modest potentiation of the
anti-parkinsonian actions of L-DOPA (8 mg/kg), although, at doses of 1 and 3
mg/kg, CP-101,606 exacerbated LID. Results of this study provide further evidence
of differences in the anti-parkinsonian activity and effects on LID of the NR2B
subunit selective NMDA receptor antagonists. These distinctions may reflect
disparities in action on NR1/NR2B as opposed to NR1/NR2A/NR2B receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.05.004 
PMID: 15246846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

