

2802. Exp Neurol. 2004 Aug;188(2):471-9.

The NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist CP-101,606 exacerbates L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia and provides mild potentiation of anti-parkinsonian effects of L-DOPA 
in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.

Nash JE(1), Ravenscroft P, McGuire S, Crossman AR, Menniti FS, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, ON, M5T 2S8 Canada.
jnash@uhnres.utoronto.ca

In Parkinson's disease (PD), degeneration of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal
pathway leads to enhanced transmission at NMDA receptors containing NR2B
subunits. Previous studies have shown that some, but not all, NR2B-containing
NMDA receptor antagonists alleviate parkinsonian symptoms in animal models of PD.
Furthermore, enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated transmission underlies the
generation of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). The subunit content of NMDA
receptors responsible for LID is not clear. Here, we assess the actions of the
NMDA antagonist CP-101,606 in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. CP-101,606 is selective
for NMDA receptors containing NR2B subunits, with higher affinity for NR1/NR2B
complexes compared to ternary NR1/NR2A/NR2B complexes. CP-101,606 had no
significant effect on parkinsonian symptoms when administered as monotherapy over
a range of doses (0.1-10 mg/kg). CP-101,606 provided a modest potentiation of the
anti-parkinsonian actions of L-DOPA (8 mg/kg), although, at doses of 1 and 3
mg/kg, CP-101,606 exacerbated LID. Results of this study provide further evidence
of differences in the anti-parkinsonian activity and effects on LID of the NR2B
subunit selective NMDA receptor antagonists. These distinctions may reflect
disparities in action on NR1/NR2B as opposed to NR1/NR2A/NR2B receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.05.004 
PMID: 15246846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2803. Reproduction. 2004 Jul;128(1):107-16.

Angiogenesis and microvascular development in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
endometrium during early pregnancy.

Rowe AJ(1), Wulff C, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, University of Edinburgh Chancellor's Building, 49 Little
France Crescent, Edinburgh, EH16 4SB, UK.

The aim of the study was to describe and quantify the changes in the maternal
vasculature and angiogenesis during early pregnancy in the marmoset endometrium
using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to identify proliferating cells, CD31 to label
endothelial cells and dual staining to identify proliferating endothelial cells. 
Non-pregnant animals from mid- and late secretory stages were studied and
compared with pregnant animals at weeks 2, 3 and 4 of pregnancy. Qualitative and 
morphometric analyses of angiogenesis and vascular area were performed. The
results show that pregnancy is associated with increasing angiogenesis in the
upper zone of the endometrium, becoming significantly increased at 3 weeks. This 
is associated with an increase in the vessel area and diameter in this zone.
These results provide the platform from which to design studies in which specific
angiogenic factors can be targeted in vivo during early pregnancy in order to
determine their role in regulating these vascular changes.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.1.00208 
PMID: 15232068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

