

2808. Endocrinology. 2004 Oct;145(10):4480-8. Epub 2004 Jun 17.

Serine residues 338 and 339 in the carboxyl-terminal tail of the type II
gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor are critical for
beta-arrestin-independent internalization.

Ronacher K(1), Matsiliza N, Nkwanyana N, Pawson AJ, Adam T, Flanagan CA, Millar
RP, Katz AA.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Research Group for Receptor Biology, Division of
Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, Anzio 
Road, Observatory 7925, South Africa.

Cloned mammalian type II GnRH receptors have a carboxyl-terminal tail in contrast
to the mammalian type I GnRH receptors, which uniquely lack a carboxyl-terminal
tail. Because this domain mediates internalization of many serpentine receptors, 
the internalization pathway of the marmoset monkey type II GnRH receptor and the 
functional role of the carboxyl-terminal tail in internalization was studied. The
internalization pathway of the type II GnRH receptor was investigated in COS-1
cells by coexpressing G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs), dynamin-1, and
beta-arrestins. Internalization of the receptor requires GRKs and dynamin but
does not require beta-arrestin. The type II GnRH receptor can also internalize
via beta-arrestin in the presence of exogenous beta-arrestins, suggesting that
the receptor can use two distinct internalization pathways. Receptor
internalization appears to occur via clathrin-coated pits and caveolae because
disruption of either structure inhibits internalization. Progressive truncations 
of the carboxyl-terminal tail identified a region containing serine residues 338 
and 339 as critical for receptor internalization. Substitution of these serine
residues with alanine residues inhibited internalization, whereas substitutions
with glutamic acid residues rescued internalization. Furthermore, a
dominant-negative GRK2 did not inhibit internalization of receptors having these 
serine substitutions, although it inhibited internalization of the wild-type
receptor. These results together identify serine residues 338 and 339 in the
carboxyl-terminal tail as critical for internalization of the type II GnRH
receptor and suggest that these residues undergo phosphorylation by GRKs.
However, neither of these residues, nor the carboxyl-terminal tail, is required
for beta-arrestin-dependent internalization.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2004-0075 
PMID: 15205374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2809. Inhal Toxicol. 2004 Mar;16(3):141-6.

Respiration-based measurement of lung deposition of a fluorescent dextrane
aerosol in a marmoset monkey.

Bergers WW(1), van de Meent-van der Horst D, Joosen MJ.

Author information: 
(1)TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, Division Chemical and Biological Protection,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands. bergers@pml.tno.nl

A technique for measurement of respiration-based lung deposition of an aerosol
was investigated and subsequently applied in a pilot study with a marmoset
monkey. The technique consisted of an aerosol exposure system for a marmoset
using a face mask and a previously constructed monkey chair, a method for
recovery of fluorescent dextrane from lung material, and respiration measurement 
of the marmoset by whole-body plethysmography. In the pilot study, a
ketamine-anesthetized marmoset was exposed for 20 min to an FITC-dextrane aerosol
atmosphere (200 microg/L air, particle size 1.5 microm mass median aerodynamic
diameter [MMAD]). It was found that 3.4% of the inhaled aerosol was deposited in 
the lungs; the aerosol was distributed over the lung lobes with an higher
concentration at the distal side.

DOI: 10.1080/08958370490270963 
PMID: 15204775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

