

2810. Drug Discov Today. 2004 Jul 1;9(13):553-6.

Neurodegenerative disease research in the 21st century.

Bales KR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Discovery Research, Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, IN 46285, 
USA. bales_kelly_r@lilly.com

DOI: 10.1016/S1359-6446(04)03120-4 
PMID: 15203090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2811. Am J Primatol. 2004 Jun;63(2):75-85.

Pre-retirement predator encounters alter the morning behavior of captive
marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Hankerson SJ(1), Caine NG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University-San Marcos, San Marcos, 
California, USA. sjhank@umd.edu

Limited data are available on the long-term effect an encounter with a predator
has on its potential prey. Anecdotal reports from field research indicate that
even unsuccessful attacks by predators on callitrichids have long-lasting
effects. The subjects for this study were two groups of Geoffroy's marmosets
(Callithrix geoffroyi) housed outside, off exhibit, at the Center for
Reproduction of Endangered Species at the San Diego Wild Animal Park. Before they
retired in the evening, the marmosets were observed under one of three
conditions: snake model, cloth control, and no-stimulus control. Data were
collected the following morning for 1 hr after the animals emerged from the
sleeping box. Compared to control conditions, exposure to the snake model before 
retirement the previous evening was associated with significantly more vigilance 
checks (i.e., inspecting the area where the stimulus was last seen), and a delay 
in beginning to forage on the ground. These results suggest that callitrichids
use recent threatening experiences to guide their vigilance behavior 12 hr after 
the threat is detected, and that they adjust their early morning behavior in
response to potential predatory threats.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20040 
PMID: 15195329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

