

2811. Am J Primatol. 2004 Jun;63(2):75-85.

Pre-retirement predator encounters alter the morning behavior of captive
marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Hankerson SJ(1), Caine NG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University-San Marcos, San Marcos, 
California, USA. sjhank@umd.edu

Limited data are available on the long-term effect an encounter with a predator
has on its potential prey. Anecdotal reports from field research indicate that
even unsuccessful attacks by predators on callitrichids have long-lasting
effects. The subjects for this study were two groups of Geoffroy's marmosets
(Callithrix geoffroyi) housed outside, off exhibit, at the Center for
Reproduction of Endangered Species at the San Diego Wild Animal Park. Before they
retired in the evening, the marmosets were observed under one of three
conditions: snake model, cloth control, and no-stimulus control. Data were
collected the following morning for 1 hr after the animals emerged from the
sleeping box. Compared to control conditions, exposure to the snake model before 
retirement the previous evening was associated with significantly more vigilance 
checks (i.e., inspecting the area where the stimulus was last seen), and a delay 
in beginning to forage on the ground. These results suggest that callitrichids
use recent threatening experiences to guide their vigilance behavior 12 hr after 
the threat is detected, and that they adjust their early morning behavior in
response to potential predatory threats.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20040 
PMID: 15195329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2812. Exp Neurol. 2004 Jul;188(1):128-38.

Selective blockade of D(3) dopamine receptors enhances the anti-parkinsonian
properties of ropinirole and levodopa in the MPTP-lesioned primate.

Silverdale MA(1), Nicholson SL, Ravenscroft P, Crossman AR, Millan MJ, Brotchie
JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

To date, the lack of highly selective antagonists at the dopamine D(3) receptor
has hampered clarification of their involvement in the actions of currently used 
therapies in Parkinson's disease. However, the novel benzopyranopyrrole, S33084, 
displays greater than 100-fold selectivity as an antagonist for D(3) versus D(2) 
receptors and all other sites tested. S33084 was administered to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmosets previously
primed with levodopa to elicit dyskinesia. Administered alone, S33084 exerted a
modest, but significant, anti-parkinsonian effect without provoking dyskinesia.
At low D(3)-selective doses (0.16 and 0.64 mg/kg), S33084 potentiated, though to 
different extents and in qualitatively different ways, the anti-parkinsonian
actions of both ropinirole and levodopa. At these doses, S33084 did not
significantly modify levodopa-induced or ropinirole-induced dyskinesia. These
data suggest that ropinirole and levodopa do not exert their anti-parkinsonian or
pro-dyskinetic actions via D(3) receptor stimulation. Indeed, stimulation of D(3)
receptors may be detrimental to the anti-parkinsonian properties of D(2)/D(3)
agonists. Selectivity for stimulation of D(2), over D(3), receptors may therefore
be a beneficial property of dopamine receptor agonists in management of motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease patients with established dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.03.022 
PMID: 15191809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

