

2812. Exp Neurol. 2004 Jul;188(1):128-38.

Selective blockade of D(3) dopamine receptors enhances the anti-parkinsonian
properties of ropinirole and levodopa in the MPTP-lesioned primate.

Silverdale MA(1), Nicholson SL, Ravenscroft P, Crossman AR, Millan MJ, Brotchie
JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

To date, the lack of highly selective antagonists at the dopamine D(3) receptor
has hampered clarification of their involvement in the actions of currently used 
therapies in Parkinson's disease. However, the novel benzopyranopyrrole, S33084, 
displays greater than 100-fold selectivity as an antagonist for D(3) versus D(2) 
receptors and all other sites tested. S33084 was administered to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmosets previously
primed with levodopa to elicit dyskinesia. Administered alone, S33084 exerted a
modest, but significant, anti-parkinsonian effect without provoking dyskinesia.
At low D(3)-selective doses (0.16 and 0.64 mg/kg), S33084 potentiated, though to 
different extents and in qualitatively different ways, the anti-parkinsonian
actions of both ropinirole and levodopa. At these doses, S33084 did not
significantly modify levodopa-induced or ropinirole-induced dyskinesia. These
data suggest that ropinirole and levodopa do not exert their anti-parkinsonian or
pro-dyskinetic actions via D(3) receptor stimulation. Indeed, stimulation of D(3)
receptors may be detrimental to the anti-parkinsonian properties of D(2)/D(3)
agonists. Selectivity for stimulation of D(2), over D(3), receptors may therefore
be a beneficial property of dopamine receptor agonists in management of motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease patients with established dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.03.022 
PMID: 15191809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2813. Biochem Pharmacol. 2004 Jul 1;68(1):165-75.

Cloning and functional expression of a novel marmoset cytochrome P450 2D enzyme, 
CYP2D30: comparison with the known marmoset CYP2D19.

Hichiya H(1), Kuramoto S, Yamamoto S, Shinoda S, Hanioka N, Narimatsu S, Asaoka
K, Miyata A, Iwata S, Nomoto M, Satoh T, Kiryu K, Ueda N, Naito S, Tucker GT,
Ellis SW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Health Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama
University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.

Using a primer set designed on the cDNA encoding the known marmoset cytochrome
P450 2D19 (CYP2D19), a cDNA encoding a novel CYP2D enzyme (CYP2D30) was cloned
from the liver of a female marmoset bred at Kyoto University (KYU). In addition, 
a cDNA encoding CYP2D19 was cloned from the liver of a female marmoset bred at
Kagoshima University (KAU). CYP2D30 and CYP2D19 showed homologies of 93.6 and
93.4% in their nucleotide and amino acid sequences, respectively. Reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and digestion with NdeI
demonstrated that the KYU-marmoset liver contained mainly mRNA for CYP2D30, while
the KAU-marmoset liver contained mainly mRNA for CYP2D19. Marmoset CYP2D30, like 
human CYP2D6, exhibited high debrisoquine (DB) 4-hydroxylase activity and
relatively low DB 5-, 6-, 7- and 8-hydroxylase activities, whereas CYP2D19 lacked
DB 4-hydroxylase but exhibited marked 5-, 6-, 7- and 8-hydroxylase activities.
The two marmoset recombinant enzymes showed enantioselective bufuralol (BF)
1"-hydroxylase activities, similar to CYP2D6. BF 1"-hydroxylation by CYP2D30
exhibited product-enantioselectivity of (1"R-OH-BF << 1"S-OH-BF), similar to that
observed with human CYP2D6, whereas CYP2D19 showed a reversed selectivity of
(1"R-OH-BF > or = 1"S-OH-BF). BF 1"-hydroxylation in marmoset liver microsomes
from both sources was inhibited by antibodies raised against rat CYP2D1 in a
concentration-dependent manner. A known inhibitor of CYP2D6, quinidine,
effectively inhibited the BF 1"-hydroxylation activities in liver microsomal
fractions prepared from KYU- and KAU-marmosets. These results suggest that
CYP2D19 and CYP2D30 proteins can be expressed as functional enzymes in marmoset
livers, although it is unresolved whether both enzymes coexist in the same
marmoset liver.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2004.03.018 
PMID: 15183128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

