

2820. Science. 2004 May 7;304(5672):878-80.

Cognitive inflexibility after prefrontal serotonin depletion.

Clarke HF(1), Dalley JW, Crofts HS, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing
Street, Cambridge, UK.

Serotonergic dysregulation within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is implicated in
many neuropsychiatric disorders, but the precise role of serotonin within the PFC
is poorly understood. Using a serial discrimination reversal paradigm, we showed 
that upon reversal, selective serotonin depletion of the marmoset PFC produced
perseverative responding to the previously rewarded stimulus without any
significant effects on either retention of a discrimination learned
preoperatively or acquisition of a novel discrimination postoperatively. These
results highlight the importance of prefrontal serotonin in behavioral
flexibility and are highly relevant to obsessive-compulsive disorder,
schizophrenia, and the cognitive sequelae of drug abuse in which perseveration is
prominent.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1094987 
PMID: 15131308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2821. J Neurosci Methods. 2004 Jun 15;136(1):77-85.

Multivariate receptive field mapping in marmoset auditory cortex.

Luczak A(1), Hackett TA, Kajikawa Y, Laubach M.

Author information: 
(1)The John B. Pierce Laboratory, New Haven, CT, USA.

We describe a novel method for estimation of multivariate neuronal receptive
fields that is based on least-squares (LS) regression. The method is shown to
account for the relationship between the spike train of a given neuron, the
activity of other neurons that are recorded simultaneously, and a variety of
time-varying features of acoustic stimuli, e.g. spectral content, amplitude, and 
sound source direction. Vocalization-evoked neuronal responses from the marmoset 
auditory cortex are used to illustrate the method. Optimal predictions of
single-unit activity were obtained by using the recent-time history of the target
neuron and the concurrent activity of other simultaneously recorded neurons (R:
0.82 +/- 0.01, approximately 67% of variance). Predictions based on ensemble
activity alone (R: 0.63 +/- 0.18) were equivalent to those based on the
combination of ensemble activity and spectral features of the vocal calls (R:
0.61 +/- 0.24). This result suggests that all information derived from the
spectrogram is embodied in ensemble activity and that there is a high level of
redundancy in the marmoset auditory cortex. We also illustrate that the method
allows for quantification of relative and shared contributions of each variable
(spike train, spectral feature) to predictions of neuronal activity and describe 
a novel "neurolet" transform that arises from the method and that may serve as a 
tool for computationally efficient processing of natural sounds.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2003.12.019 
PMID: 15126048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

