

2821. J Neurosci Methods. 2004 Jun 15;136(1):77-85.

Multivariate receptive field mapping in marmoset auditory cortex.

Luczak A(1), Hackett TA, Kajikawa Y, Laubach M.

Author information: 
(1)The John B. Pierce Laboratory, New Haven, CT, USA.

We describe a novel method for estimation of multivariate neuronal receptive
fields that is based on least-squares (LS) regression. The method is shown to
account for the relationship between the spike train of a given neuron, the
activity of other neurons that are recorded simultaneously, and a variety of
time-varying features of acoustic stimuli, e.g. spectral content, amplitude, and 
sound source direction. Vocalization-evoked neuronal responses from the marmoset 
auditory cortex are used to illustrate the method. Optimal predictions of
single-unit activity were obtained by using the recent-time history of the target
neuron and the concurrent activity of other simultaneously recorded neurons (R:
0.82 +/- 0.01, approximately 67% of variance). Predictions based on ensemble
activity alone (R: 0.63 +/- 0.18) were equivalent to those based on the
combination of ensemble activity and spectral features of the vocal calls (R:
0.61 +/- 0.24). This result suggests that all information derived from the
spectrogram is embodied in ensemble activity and that there is a high level of
redundancy in the marmoset auditory cortex. We also illustrate that the method
allows for quantification of relative and shared contributions of each variable
(spike train, spectral feature) to predictions of neuronal activity and describe 
a novel "neurolet" transform that arises from the method and that may serve as a 
tool for computationally efficient processing of natural sounds.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2003.12.019 
PMID: 15126048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2822. J Biol Chem. 2004 Jul 16;279(29):29944-51. Epub 2004 Apr 29.

An Hsp27-related, dominant-negative-acting intracellular estradiol-binding
protein.

Chen H(1), Hewison M, Hu B, Sharma M, Sun Z, Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California 90048, USA.

New World primates (NWPs) exhibit a compensated form of resistance to gonadal
steroid hormones. We demonstrated recently that estrogen resistance in NWP cells 
was associated with the overexpression of two proteins, a nonreceptor-related,
dominant-negative-acting estrogen response element (ERE)-binding protein (ERE-BP)
and an intracellular estradiol-binding protein (IEBP). Based on the N-terminal
sequences of tryptic fragments of IEBP isolated from a 17beta-estradiol (E2)
affinity column we cloned a full-length cDNA for IEBP from the estrogen-resistant
NWP cell line, B95-8. Subsequent sequence analysis revealed 87% sequence identity
between the deduced peptide for IEBP and human Hsp27. When hormone-responsive,
wild-type Old World primate (OWP) cells were transiently transfected with IEBP
cDNA, E2-directed ERE reporter luciferase activity was reduced by 50% compared
with vector only-transfected OWP cells (p < 0.0018). When IEBP and ERE-BP were
cotransfected, ERE promoter-reporter activity was reduced by a further 60% (p <
0.0001). Electrophoresis mobility shift analyses showed that IEBP neither bound
to ERE nor competed with the estrogen receptor (ER) for binding to ERE. However, 
there was evidence of protein-protein interaction of IEBP and ERalpha; IEBP was
coimmunoprecipitated with anti-ERalpha antibody in wild-type cells stably
transfected with IEBP. A specific interaction between ERalpha and IEBP was
confirmed in glutathione S-transferase pull-down and yeast two-hybrid assays.
Data indicate that the Hsp27-related IEBP interacts with the ligand binding
domain of the ERalpha. In summary, by inhibiting the ERalpha-E2 interaction, IEBP
acts to squelch ERalpha-directed ERE-regulated transactivation and promote
estrogen resistance in NWP cells.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M401317200 
PMID: 15123601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

