

2824. Cells Tissues Organs. 2004;176(4):187-94.

Apocrine glands in the eyelid of primates contribute to the ocular host defense.

Stoeckelhuber M(1), Stoeckelhuber BM, Welsch U.

Author information: 
(1)Anatomical Institute, Chair 2, University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
mstoecke@anat.med.uni-muenchem.de

Apocrine glands of Moll are regular components of primate eyelids. We studied the
distribution and localization of these glands in three different primate species,
the common marmoset, the rhesus monkey, and the hamadryas baboon. In addition, we
tested the primate glands of Moll with antibodies against antimicrobial proteins,
cytoskeletal proteins and the androgen receptor. The glands of Moll differ in
abundance and distribution in different monkeys. In the common marmoset, a
representative of the New World monkeys, Platyrrhini, the apocrine glands are
frequently found at the lid margin and in the overlying epidermis of the lid. In 
the rhesus monkey and the hamadryas baboon, representatives of Old World monkeys,
Catarrhini, apocrine glands are rarer and located predominantly at the margin of 
the lid. The immunohistochemical analysis indicates the presence of a variety of 
antimicrobial proteins, e.g. lysozyme, beta-defensin-2, adrenomedullin,
lactoferrin, and IgA, in these glands. Interestingly, there are basically no
androgen receptors in the nuclei of apocrine glands at the lid margin in all
three monkey species. In the common marmoset, however, androgen receptors are
found in apocrine glands of the overlying epidermis of the lid. We speculate that
the glands of Moll are derived from apocrine glands as found in the skin of the
entire body in New World monkeys which developed at the lid margins of higher
primates and humans into specialized glands secreting agents of host defense in
the eye.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000077035 
PMID: 15118398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2825. Science. 2004 Apr 30;304(5671):734-6.

Identification of virus-encoded microRNAs.

Pfeffer S(1), Zavolan M, Gr√§sser FA, Chien M, Russo JJ, Ju J, John B, Enright AJ,
Marks D, Sander C, Tuschl T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of RNA Molecular Biology, The Rockefeller University, 1230 York
Avenue, Box 186, New York, NY 10021, USA.

RNA silencing processes are guided by small RNAs that are derived from
double-stranded RNA. To probe for function of RNA silencing during infection of
human cells by a DNA virus, we recorded the small RNA profile of cells infected
by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). We show that EBV expresses several microRNA (miRNA) 
genes. Given that miRNAs function in RNA silencing pathways either by targeting
messenger RNAs for degradation or by repressing translation, we identified viral 
regulators of host and/or viral gene expression.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1096781 
PMID: 15118162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

