

2825. Science. 2004 Apr 30;304(5671):734-6.

Identification of virus-encoded microRNAs.

Pfeffer S(1), Zavolan M, Gr√§sser FA, Chien M, Russo JJ, Ju J, John B, Enright AJ,
Marks D, Sander C, Tuschl T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of RNA Molecular Biology, The Rockefeller University, 1230 York
Avenue, Box 186, New York, NY 10021, USA.

RNA silencing processes are guided by small RNAs that are derived from
double-stranded RNA. To probe for function of RNA silencing during infection of
human cells by a DNA virus, we recorded the small RNA profile of cells infected
by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). We show that EBV expresses several microRNA (miRNA) 
genes. Given that miRNAs function in RNA silencing pathways either by targeting
messenger RNAs for degradation or by repressing translation, we identified viral 
regulators of host and/or viral gene expression.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1096781 
PMID: 15118162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2826. J Bone Miner Metab. 2004;22(3):192-7.

Biochemical bone turnover markers are useful tools to assess changes in bone
metabolism in marmosets.

Angeliewa A(1), Budde M, Schlachter M, Hoyle NR, Bauss F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharma Research, Animal Husbandry, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.,
Basel, Switzerland.

This study was designed to investigate whether biochemical markers of bone
resorption and formation could be determined in the serum and urine of marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus), using standard laboratory chemistry methods and
commercially available human kits. Consequently, the findings from this study
will indicate whether the techniques and kits could serve as appropriate tools
for assessing changes in bone turnover in this species. Two groups of animals (n 
= 12/group), consisting of a comparable number of young and old male and female
marmosets, were given either isotonic saline or a single dose of the
bisphosphonate ibandronate (0.1 mg/kg) s.c. in order to suppress bone turnover.
Blood and urine were collected at baseline and 5 days after administration.
Samples were analyzed for urinary (u) and serum (s) markers of bone formation
(serum osteocalcin [sOC], serum N-terminal crosslinks of human pro-collagen type 
I [sP1NP]) and bone resorption (urinary pyridinoline [uPYD], urinary
deoxypyridinoline [uDPD], serum C-terminal crosslinks of human collagen type I
(C-telopeptide) [sCTX]), intact serum parathyroid hormone (iPTH) and urinary
calcium and creatinine. Levels of all the markers of bone resorption and
formation decreased during the study period. As expected, the bone formation
markers decreased slightly less relative to the resorption markers. The most
sensitive markers were sCTX (-33%; P < or =0.001) for bone resorption, and sP1NP 
(-3%; P < or =0.05) for bone formation. Serum PTH levels increased by 8% ( P < or
=0.05), demonstrating a physiological reaction to prevent changes in serum
calcium. Although not all variables reached statistical significance within the
tested interval, the applied methods and kits were considered suitable for
evaluating bone turnover changes in marmosets. Thus, these methods and kits can
be utilized not only during the course of pharmacological investigations but also
as additional tools to assess the overall bone health of this species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00774-003-0469-8 
PMID: 15108060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

