

2828. J Struct Biol. 2004 Jun;146(3):359-67.

Spatial mapping of collagen fibril organisation in primate cornea-an X-ray
diffraction investigation.

Boote C(1), Dennis S, Meek K.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biophysics Group, School of Optometry and Vision Sciences, Cardiff 
University, Wales, UK. bootec@cf.ac.uk

New insights are presented into the collagenous structure of the primate cornea. 
Wide-angle X-ray diffraction was used to map the fibrillar arrangement and
distribution of collagen over three common marmoset corneas. The maps provide a
point of reference to help interpret data from pathological corneas or primate
models of refractive surgery. The results herein disclose a circum-corneal
annulus of highly aligned collagen, 0.5-1.5 mm wide, where the cornea and sclera 
fuse at the limbus; a feature similar to that observed in human tissue. As in
humans, the annulus is not uniform, varying in width, fibril angular spread, and 
collagen density around its circumference. However, more centrally the marmoset
cornea exhibits a preferred lamella orientation in which proportionally more
fibrils are oriented along the superior-inferior corneal meridian. This
observation is in striking contrast with the situation in human cornea, where
there is an orthogonal arrangement of preferentially aligned fibrils.
Investigation of a further 16 corneas confirmed that approximately 33% (+/-1%) (n
= 76) of fibrils in the central marmoset cornea lie within a 45 degrees sector of
the superior-inferior meridian. Implications for the mechanical and optical
properties of the cornea are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsb.2003.12.009 
PMID: 15099577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2829. Neuroreport. 2004 Mar 1;15(3):443-8.

Calbindin-D28K, parvalbumin and calretinin in primate lower motor neurons.

Fahandejsaadi A(1), Leung E, Rahaii R, Bu J, Geula C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative and Aging Research, Department of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School and Section of Gerontology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, 330 Brookline Ave, Burlington Research Building, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

It has been suggested that lower motor neurons containing calcium-binding
proteins (CBP) may be resistant to degeneration in motor neuron disease. The
testing of this hypothesis is hampered by lack of comprehensive information
regarding the presence of CBPs in motor neurons. To address this shortcoming, we 
investigated the distribution of the CBPs calbindin-D28K (CB), parvalbumin (PV)
and calretinin (CRT) in lower motor neurons in the normal human and two non-human
primates (rhesus monkey and common marmoset) using immunohistochemistry. A
variable proportion of motor neurons in cranial nerve motor nuclei contained
immunoreactivity for one or more CBPs. A subpopulation of spinal cord alpha-motor
neurons was also CBP-positive. Comparison of staining for choline
acetyltransferase (ChAT) and CBPs in the human spinal cord demonstrated that
approximately 63% of ventral horn motor neurons contained PV, 53% contained CRT
and 56% contained CB. CBP immunoreactivity within motor neurons was of variable
staining intensity. It remains to be established whether the presence of these
CBPs confers protection against the pathogenic mechanisms of motor neuron
disease.

Copyright 2004 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-200403010-00012 
PMID: 15094500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

