

2829. Neuroreport. 2004 Mar 1;15(3):443-8.

Calbindin-D28K, parvalbumin and calretinin in primate lower motor neurons.

Fahandejsaadi A(1), Leung E, Rahaii R, Bu J, Geula C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative and Aging Research, Department of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School and Section of Gerontology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, 330 Brookline Ave, Burlington Research Building, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

It has been suggested that lower motor neurons containing calcium-binding
proteins (CBP) may be resistant to degeneration in motor neuron disease. The
testing of this hypothesis is hampered by lack of comprehensive information
regarding the presence of CBPs in motor neurons. To address this shortcoming, we 
investigated the distribution of the CBPs calbindin-D28K (CB), parvalbumin (PV)
and calretinin (CRT) in lower motor neurons in the normal human and two non-human
primates (rhesus monkey and common marmoset) using immunohistochemistry. A
variable proportion of motor neurons in cranial nerve motor nuclei contained
immunoreactivity for one or more CBPs. A subpopulation of spinal cord alpha-motor
neurons was also CBP-positive. Comparison of staining for choline
acetyltransferase (ChAT) and CBPs in the human spinal cord demonstrated that
approximately 63% of ventral horn motor neurons contained PV, 53% contained CRT
and 56% contained CB. CBP immunoreactivity within motor neurons was of variable
staining intensity. It remains to be established whether the presence of these
CBPs confers protection against the pathogenic mechanisms of motor neuron
disease.

Copyright 2004 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-200403010-00012 
PMID: 15094500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2830. Exp Neurol. 2004 May;187(1):86-93.

Antiparkinsonian activity of Ro 25-6981, a NR2B subunit specific NMDA receptor
antagonist, in animal models of Parkinson's disease.

Löschmann PA(1), De Groote C, Smith L, Wüllner U, Fischer G, Kemp JA, Jenner P,
Klockgether T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Tübingen, Tuebingen, Germany.

N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists have antiakinetic and
antidyskinetic effects in animals models of Parkinson's disease (PD). However,
non-selective inhibition of NMDA receptors throughout the central nervous system 
may result in undesired effects such as ataxia and psychosis. We therefore
studied Ro 25-6981, an activity-dependent antagonist of NMDA receptors containing
the NR2B subunit which are predominantly expressed in the striatum. Ro 25-6981
induced contraversive rotations in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats
without stimulating locomotion in normal rats and reversed parkinsonian symptoms 
in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets.
Due to the small number of marmosets, there were no significant differences
between Ro 25-6981 and vehicle though there was a significant trend toward
differences, as shown by the Page test. Furthermore, Ro 25-6981 potentiated the
action of levodopa in both species and attenuated the maximal levodopa response
in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats chronically treated with levodopa without reducing the
overall response. Ro 25-6981 also potentiated the action of the dopamine receptor
agonists apomorphine, A68930 and quinpirole in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The present 
observations suggest a therapeutic potential of NR2B-selective NMDA receptor
antagonists in the management of PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.01.018 
PMID: 15081591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

