

283. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Oct;180:114189. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.114189. Epub 2020
Aug 5.

Expression of functional sulfotransferases (SULT) 1A1, 1A3, 1B1, 1C2, 1E1, and
2A1 in common marmosets.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Murayama N(2), Shimizu M(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima City,
Kagoshima 890 8580, Japan; Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd, Kainan,
Wakayama 642 0017, Japan. Electronic address: unoxx001@vet.kagoshima-u.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194 8543, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194 8543, Japan. Electronic address:
hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Cytosolic sulfotransferases (SULTs), which mediate the conjugation of drugs with 
3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate, have been characterized in humans and
cynomolgus monkeys. However, SULTs remain to be evaluated in common marmosets, a 
species of non-human primate often employed in drug metabolism and
pharmacokinetic studies of endogenous and exogenous compounds. In this study,
marmoset SULT1A1, 1A3, 1B1, 1C2, 1E1, and 2A1 cDNAs were isolated and
characterized, based on genome data. The deduced amino acid sequences of these
marmoset SULT cDNAs had high identities (90-95%) with their human orthologs,
except for marmoset SULT2A1, which was only 81% identical to human SULT2A1. The
amino acid sequences of the orthologs of these six SULTs in marmosets, monkeys,
and humans were closely clustered in a phylogenetic tree. The structures and
genomic organizations of marmoset SULT genes were similar to those of their human
orthologs. Among the five marmoset tissues analyzed, SULT mRNAs showed typical
expression patterns. The most abundant SULT mRNAs were SULT1B1 in liver, small
intestine, and kidney; SULT1E1 in lung; and SULT1A3 in brain. Recombinant
marmoset SULT1A1, 1A3, 1B1, 1C2, 1E1, and 2A1 proteins expressed in bacterial
cytosolic fractions mediated sulfate conjugations with
3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate of the following typical human SULT
substrates: dopamine, 1-naphthol, p-nitrophenol, estradiol, and
dehydroepiandrosterone. Taken together, these wide-ranging results suggest
functional and molecular similarities of SULTs among marmosets, monkeys, and
humans.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.114189 
PMID: 32768400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Addict Biol. 2021 May;26(3):e12955. doi: 10.1111/adb.12955. Epub 2020 Aug 5.

Cocaine attenuates acid sphingomyelinase activity during establishment of
addiction-related behavior-A translational study in rats and monkeys.

Frankowska M(1), Jesus FM(2), Mühle C(3), Pacheco JVN(2), Maior RS(4)(5),
Sadakierska-Chudy A(1), Smaga I(1), Piechota M(6), Kalinichenko LS(3), Gulbins
E(7)(8), Kornhuber J(3), Filip M(1), Müller CP(3), Barros M(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Drug Addiction Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Maj
Institute of Pharmacology, Krakow, Poland.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia, Brazil.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Friedrich-Alexander-University
Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.
(4)Department of Physiological Sciences, University of Brasília, Brasilia,
Brazil.
(5)Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, Brasilia,
Brazil.
(6)Department of Molecular Neuropharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Maj
Institute of Pharmacology, Krakow, Poland.
(7)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(8)Department of Surgery, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA.

Cocaine addiction is a severe psychiatric condition for which currently no
effective pharmacotherapy is available. Brain mechanisms for the establishment of
addiction-related behaviors are still not fully understood, and specific
biomarkers for cocaine use are not available. Sphingolipids are major membrane
lipids, which shape neuronal membrane composition and dynamics in the brain.
Here, we investigated how chronic cocaine exposure during establishment of
addiction-related behaviors affects the activity of the sphingolipid rheostat
controlling enzymes in the brain of rats. As we detected specific effects on
several enzymes in the brain, we tested whether the activity of selected enzymes 
in the blood may serve as potential biomarker for cocaine exposure in non-human
primates (Callithrix penicillata). We found that intravenous cocaine
self-administration led to a reduced mRNA expression of Cers1, Degs1 and Degs2,
and Smpd1 in the prefrontal cortex of rats, as well as a reduction of Cers4
expression in the striatum. These effects reversed after 10 days of abstinence.
Monkeys showed a robust cocaine-induced place preference (CPP). This coincided
with a reduction in blood acid sphingomyelinase (ASM) activity after CPP
establishment. This effect normalized after 15 days of abstinence. Altogether,
these findings suggest that the establishment of cocaine addiction-related
behaviors coincides with changes in the activity of sphingolipid controlling
enzymes. In particular, blood ASM levels may serve as a translational biomarker
for recent cocaine exposure.

© 2020 The Authors. Addiction Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on
behalf of Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/adb.12955 
PMID: 32761719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

