

2830. Exp Neurol. 2004 May;187(1):86-93.

Antiparkinsonian activity of Ro 25-6981, a NR2B subunit specific NMDA receptor
antagonist, in animal models of Parkinson's disease.

Löschmann PA(1), De Groote C, Smith L, Wüllner U, Fischer G, Kemp JA, Jenner P,
Klockgether T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Tübingen, Tuebingen, Germany.

N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists have antiakinetic and
antidyskinetic effects in animals models of Parkinson's disease (PD). However,
non-selective inhibition of NMDA receptors throughout the central nervous system 
may result in undesired effects such as ataxia and psychosis. We therefore
studied Ro 25-6981, an activity-dependent antagonist of NMDA receptors containing
the NR2B subunit which are predominantly expressed in the striatum. Ro 25-6981
induced contraversive rotations in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats
without stimulating locomotion in normal rats and reversed parkinsonian symptoms 
in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets.
Due to the small number of marmosets, there were no significant differences
between Ro 25-6981 and vehicle though there was a significant trend toward
differences, as shown by the Page test. Furthermore, Ro 25-6981 potentiated the
action of levodopa in both species and attenuated the maximal levodopa response
in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats chronically treated with levodopa without reducing the
overall response. Ro 25-6981 also potentiated the action of the dopamine receptor
agonists apomorphine, A68930 and quinpirole in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The present 
observations suggest a therapeutic potential of NR2B-selective NMDA receptor
antagonists in the management of PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.01.018 
PMID: 15081591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2831. J Neurophysiol. 2004 Aug;92(2):1067-76. Epub 2004 Apr 7.

Sense of taste in a New World monkey, the common marmoset. II. Link between
behavior and nerve activity.

Danilova V(1), Hellekant G.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 1655 Linden Drive, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

In a previous study, we characterized the gustatory system of a New World monkey 
the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus jacchus, with electrophysiological
techniques by recording from taste fibers of the chorda tympani proper (CT) and
glossopharyngeal (NG) nerves. Hierarchical cluster analysis identified three
clusters of taste fibers: S fibers, responding predominantly to sweeteners, Q
fibers, responding predominantly to bitter stimuli, and H fibers, responding
predominantly to acids. In this study, we employed two behavioral techniques, the
two-bottle preference (TBP) and conditioned taste aversion (CTA), to study the
taste of the compounds used in the previous electrophysiological study. The
results showed that compounds that did not stimulate any taste fibers were
neither preferred nor rejected. Compounds that activated only S fibers were
always preferred over water. When aversion to sucrose was created by the CTA
method, these compounds were rejected. Compounds that activated Q fibers were
rejected and consumed less than water. We studied the relationship between intake
and net response from S and Q fibers in the CT and NG nerves. Intake was measured
as a preference ratio in TBP test. The net response was defined as: (S(CT) +
S(NG)) - (Q(CT) + Q(NG)), where S(CT) + S(NG) denotes the sum of the responses in
S fibers of the CT and NG nerves. Similarly, Q(CT) + Q(NG) represents the sum of 
the responses in Q fibers of the CT and NG nerves. The relationship between
intake and the Net response was linear with a Pearson correlation coefficient
0.85. This study supports our hypothesis that intake is influenced by S and Q
fibers, where S fibers serve as a hedonically positive input and Q fibers as a
hedonically negative input.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01183.2003 
PMID: 15071088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

