

2836. J Physiol. 2004 May 15;557(Pt 1):229-45. Epub 2004 Mar 26.

Chromatic and spatial properties of parvocellular cells in the lateral geniculate
nucleus of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Blessing EM(1), Solomon SG, Hashemi-Nezhad M, Morris BJ, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Cnr Keppel and Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, VIC 3053, Australia.

The parvocellular (PC) division of the afferent visual pathway is considered to
carry neuronal signals which underlie the red-green dimension of colour vision as
well as high-resolution spatial vision. In order to understand the origin of
these signals, and the way in which they are combined, the responses of PC cells 
in dichromatic ('red-green colour-blind') and trichromatic marmosets were
compared. Visual stimuli included coloured and achromatic gratings, and spatially
uniform red and green lights presented at varying temporal phases and
frequencies.The sensitivity of PC cells to red-green chromatic modulation was
found to depend primarily on the spectral separation between the medium- and
long-wavelength-sensitive cone pigments (20 or 7 nm) in the two trichromatic
marmoset phenotypes studied. The temporal frequency dependence of chromatic
sensitivity was consistent with centre-surround interactions. Some evidence for
chromatic selectivity was seen in peripheral PC cells. The receptive field
dimensions of parvocellular cells were similar in dichromatic and trichromatic
animals, but the achromatic contrast sensitivity of cells was slightly higher (by
about 30%) in dichromats than in trichromats. These data support the hypothesis
that the primary role of the PC is to transmit high-acuity spatial signals, with 
red-green opponent signals appearing as an additional response dimension in
trichromatic animals.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2003.058065 
PMCID: PMC1665047
PMID: 15047769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2837. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2004 Jan-Feb;37(1):37-40. Epub 2004 Mar 19.

[Alterations in cholesterol, triglyceride and total phospholipid levels in plasma
of Callithrix jacchus (sagüi) reinfected by Schistosoma mansoni].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ramos TM(1), de Vasconcelos AS, de Carvalho VC, Lima VL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química e Metabolismo de Lipídeos e Lipoproteínas, Centro de
Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brasil.
vlml@ufpe.br

Little information is available on the lipid changes caused by Schistosoma
mansoni reinfection. In this work it was evaluated alteration in the plasma
lipids due to one reinfection by Schistosoma mansoni in the non human primate
Callithrix jacchus (sagüi). Blood samples from C. jacchus, prior and after 60
days infection and reinfection, were collected by intravenous puncture,
anticoagulated with EDTA (1mg/mL) and centrifuged at 2,500 xg, in order to obtain
the plasma. Total cholesterol, cholesteryl ester, total phospholipid and
triglyceride levels were determined by spectrophotometer methods. The results
showed that there are significant reduction in cholesterol total, cholesteryl
ester, total phospholipid and triglyceride concentrations in plasma of animals
reinfected by Schistosoma mansoni, in comparison to the same animals prior and
after one infection. This study showed that a second infection of Callithrix
jacchus by Schistosoma mansoni causes plasma lipid alterations, which are more
significant than after a single infection.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822004000100010 
PMID: 15042181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

