

2837. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2004 Jan-Feb;37(1):37-40. Epub 2004 Mar 19.

[Alterations in cholesterol, triglyceride and total phospholipid levels in plasma
of Callithrix jacchus (sagüi) reinfected by Schistosoma mansoni].

[Article in Portuguese]

Ramos TM(1), de Vasconcelos AS, de Carvalho VC, Lima VL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Química e Metabolismo de Lipídeos e Lipoproteínas, Centro de
Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, PE, Brasil.
vlml@ufpe.br

Little information is available on the lipid changes caused by Schistosoma
mansoni reinfection. In this work it was evaluated alteration in the plasma
lipids due to one reinfection by Schistosoma mansoni in the non human primate
Callithrix jacchus (sagüi). Blood samples from C. jacchus, prior and after 60
days infection and reinfection, were collected by intravenous puncture,
anticoagulated with EDTA (1mg/mL) and centrifuged at 2,500 xg, in order to obtain
the plasma. Total cholesterol, cholesteryl ester, total phospholipid and
triglyceride levels were determined by spectrophotometer methods. The results
showed that there are significant reduction in cholesterol total, cholesteryl
ester, total phospholipid and triglyceride concentrations in plasma of animals
reinfected by Schistosoma mansoni, in comparison to the same animals prior and
after one infection. This study showed that a second infection of Callithrix
jacchus by Schistosoma mansoni causes plasma lipid alterations, which are more
significant than after a single infection.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822004000100010 
PMID: 15042181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2838. Drug Metab Dispos. 2004 Apr;32(4):376-8.

Cloning CYP2D21 and CYP3A22 cDNAs from liver of miniature pigs.

Sakuma T(1), Shimojima T, Miwa K, Kamataki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toyama Medical
and Pharmaceutical University, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama, Toyama 930-0194, Japan.
tsakuma@ms.toyama-mpu.ac.jp

To compare the identity of the primary structure of drug-metabolizing cytochrome 
P450 between miniature pigs and humans, two cDNA clones, coding for miniature pig
CYP2D21 and CYP3A22, were isolated. The deduced amino acid sequences of CYP2D21
and CYP3A22 were 78.3 and 75.0% identical to human CYP2D6 and CYP3A4,
respectively. These values were nearly the same as those of bovine, dog, and some
rodent isoforms, and 12.2 to 18.4% lower than those of nonhuman primates such as 
cynomolgus monkeys, Japanese monkey, and marmosets. These data indicate that
miniature pig P450s are genetically not so close as monkey P450s to human P450s
as previously expected. The recombinant CYP2D21 enzyme, however, showed bufuralol
1'-hydroxylase activity, suggesting that miniature pig CYP2D21 is capable of
metabolizing some of the same substrates associated with human CYP2D6 despite its
low identity to human counterparts.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.32.4.376 
PMID: 15039288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

