

2838. Drug Metab Dispos. 2004 Apr;32(4):376-8.

Cloning CYP2D21 and CYP3A22 cDNAs from liver of miniature pigs.

Sakuma T(1), Shimojima T, Miwa K, Kamataki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toyama Medical
and Pharmaceutical University, 2630 Sugitani, Toyama, Toyama 930-0194, Japan.
tsakuma@ms.toyama-mpu.ac.jp

To compare the identity of the primary structure of drug-metabolizing cytochrome 
P450 between miniature pigs and humans, two cDNA clones, coding for miniature pig
CYP2D21 and CYP3A22, were isolated. The deduced amino acid sequences of CYP2D21
and CYP3A22 were 78.3 and 75.0% identical to human CYP2D6 and CYP3A4,
respectively. These values were nearly the same as those of bovine, dog, and some
rodent isoforms, and 12.2 to 18.4% lower than those of nonhuman primates such as 
cynomolgus monkeys, Japanese monkey, and marmosets. These data indicate that
miniature pig P450s are genetically not so close as monkey P450s to human P450s
as previously expected. The recombinant CYP2D21 enzyme, however, showed bufuralol
1'-hydroxylase activity, suggesting that miniature pig CYP2D21 is capable of
metabolizing some of the same substrates associated with human CYP2D6 despite its
low identity to human counterparts.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.32.4.376 
PMID: 15039288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2839. Behav Brain Res. 2004 Apr 2;150(1-2):55-63.

Dissociation of hemi-spatial and hemi-motor impairments in a unilateral primate
model of Parkinson's disease.

Milton AL(1), Marshall JW, Cummings RM, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB3 2EB, UK.

Monkeys with unilateral lesions of nigrostriatal dopamine projections were tested
on a series of spatial tasks. One task, in which monkeys were required to use one
or the other arm to retrieve food rewards from different positions, allowed
separate assessment of the use of each arm in each hemi-space in order to
distinguish hemi-spatial and hemi-motor impairments. The lesioned monkeys
exhibited a persistent neglect of contralesional space when using either arm
which could be dissociated from a motor impairment in the contralesional arm
alone. Another task allowed free use of either arm across peri-personal space and
demonstrated an ipsilesional bias in the monkeys' self-determined attention
(orientation) to a task which they were trying to perform. It is argued that the 
tendency for monkeys with this lesion to rotate ipsilesionally is due to an
ipsilesional deviation of the 'centre of interest' (determined by telencephalic
circuitry) relative to 'straight ahead' (determined by brainstem circuitry). The 
dopamine projections may contribute to cortico-subcortical circuits which
determine the spatial layout of mental representation, attention and intention.
The results in this primate model of unilateral Parkinson's disease (PD) support 
the view that patients with left-sided Parkinsonian symptoms exhibit a unilateral
deficit in spatial mental representation as well as their well-recognised motor
symptoms. Patients with bilateral Parkinson's symptoms may exhibit bilateral
deficits in mental representation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-4328(03)00231-6 
PMID: 15033279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

