

2841. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2004 Mar-Apr;75(2):85-92.

Differences in aerial and terrestrial visual scanning in captive black tufted-ear
marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) exposed to a novel environment.

Barros M(1), Alencar C, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Centre, University of Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Aerial and terrestrial visual scanning were investigated in captive black
tufted-ear marmosets, Callithrix penicillata, exposed to a novel environment.
Naive adult subjects (n=24) were individually exposed to a figure-eight maze
during seven 30-min trials, 48 h apart. Habituation to the maze was observed, as 
indicated by the significant decrease in locomotion. The frequency of aerial
scanning, however, remained elevated throughout the 7 trials, while its duration 
rapidly increased to high levels. Frequency and duration of terrestrial scanning 
persisted at constant low rates, differing significantly from aerial scanning.
Males and females did not differ significantly. The different impact of aerial
versus terrestrial predators could have a significant influence on vigilant
behaviour in this species. Thus, visual scanning is an important and highly
organized antipredation strategy in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1159/000076266 
PMID: 15010580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2842. J Comp Psychol. 2004 Mar;118(1):103-12.

Object permanence in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Mendes N(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

A series of 9 search tasks corresponding to the Piagetian Stages 3-6 of object
permanence were administered to 11 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Success
rates varied strongly among tasks and marmosets, but the performances of most
subjects were above chance level on the majority of tasks of visible and
invisible displacements. Although up to 24 trials were administered in the tests,
subjects did not improve their performance across trials. Errors were due to
preferences for specific locations or boxes, simple search strategies, and
attentional deficits. The performances of at least 2 subjects that achieved very 
high scores up to the successive invisible displacement task suggest that this
species is able to represent the existence and the movements of unperceived
objects.

((c) 2004 APA, all rights reserved)

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.118.1.103 
PMID: 15008678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

