

2842. J Comp Psychol. 2004 Mar;118(1):103-12.

Object permanence in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Mendes N(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

A series of 9 search tasks corresponding to the Piagetian Stages 3-6 of object
permanence were administered to 11 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Success
rates varied strongly among tasks and marmosets, but the performances of most
subjects were above chance level on the majority of tasks of visible and
invisible displacements. Although up to 24 trials were administered in the tests,
subjects did not improve their performance across trials. Errors were due to
preferences for specific locations or boxes, simple search strategies, and
attentional deficits. The performances of at least 2 subjects that achieved very 
high scores up to the successive invisible displacement task suggest that this
species is able to represent the existence and the movements of unperceived
objects.

((c) 2004 APA, all rights reserved)

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.118.1.103 
PMID: 15008678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2843. Magn Reson Med. 2004 Mar;51(3):607-11.

Mimicking liver iron overload using liposomal ferritin preparations.

Wood JC(1), Fassler JD, Meade T.

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Cardiology and Radiology, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90027-0034, USA.

Close monitoring of liver iron content is necessary to prevent iron overload in
transfusion-dependent anemias. Liver biopsy remains the gold standard; however,
MRI potentially offers a noninvasive alternative. Iron metabolism and storage is 
complicated and tissue/disease-specific. This report demonstrates that iron
distribution may be more important than iron speciation with respect to MRI
signal changes. Simple synthetic analogs of hepatic lysosomes were constructed
from noncovalent attachment of horse-spleen ferritin to 0.4 microm diameter
phospholipid liposomes suspended in agarose. Graded iron loading was achieved by 
varying ferritin burden per liposome as well as liposomal volume fraction. T1 and
T2 relaxation times were measured on a 60 MHz NMR spectrometer and compared to
simple ferritin-gel combinations. Liposomal-ferritin had 6-fold stronger T2
relaxivity than unaggregated ferritin but identical T1 relaxivity.
Liposomal-ferritin T2 relaxivity also more closely matched published results from
hemosiderotic marmoset liver, suggesting a potential role as an iron-calibration 
phantom.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.10735 
PMCID: PMC2892965
PMID: 15004804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

