

2843. Magn Reson Med. 2004 Mar;51(3):607-11.

Mimicking liver iron overload using liposomal ferritin preparations.

Wood JC(1), Fassler JD, Meade T.

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Cardiology and Radiology, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California 90027-0034, USA.

Close monitoring of liver iron content is necessary to prevent iron overload in
transfusion-dependent anemias. Liver biopsy remains the gold standard; however,
MRI potentially offers a noninvasive alternative. Iron metabolism and storage is 
complicated and tissue/disease-specific. This report demonstrates that iron
distribution may be more important than iron speciation with respect to MRI
signal changes. Simple synthetic analogs of hepatic lysosomes were constructed
from noncovalent attachment of horse-spleen ferritin to 0.4 microm diameter
phospholipid liposomes suspended in agarose. Graded iron loading was achieved by 
varying ferritin burden per liposome as well as liposomal volume fraction. T1 and
T2 relaxation times were measured on a 60 MHz NMR spectrometer and compared to
simple ferritin-gel combinations. Liposomal-ferritin had 6-fold stronger T2
relaxivity than unaggregated ferritin but identical T1 relaxivity.
Liposomal-ferritin T2 relaxivity also more closely matched published results from
hemosiderotic marmoset liver, suggesting a potential role as an iron-calibration 
phantom.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.10735 
PMCID: PMC2892965
PMID: 15004804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2844. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2004 Jul;310(1):386-94. Epub 2004 Mar 5.

Levetiracetam potentiates the antidyskinetic action of amantadine in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate model of
Parkinson's disease.

Hill MP(1), Ravenscroft P, Bezard E, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM, Michel A, Grim√©e
R, Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience Ltd, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Levetiracetam (LEV) (Keppra; UCB Pharma, Brussels, Belgium) has recently been
reported to have antidyskinetic activity against levodopa (L-DOPA)-induced
dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned
marmoset and macaque models of Parkinson's disease. Amantadine is frequently used
as adjunctive therapy for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, but adverse effects limit
its clinical utility. The current study was designed to investigate whether LEV
can potentiate the antidyskinetic action of amantadine. The antiparkinsonian and 
antidyskinetic effects of LEV (13 and 60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 
and 0.3 mg/kg), administered alone and in combination, were assessed in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (n = 12). LEV (60
mg/kg) and amantadine (0.3 mg/kg) administered alone significantly reduced
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia without compromising the antiparkinsonian action of
l-DOPA. Lower doses were without any significant effects. The combination of LEV 
(60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg) significantly
decreased dyskinesia severity, without compromising the antiparkinsonian action
of L-DOPA, more efficaciously than LEV or amantadine monotherapy. These results
support the concept that normalization of different pathophysiological mechanisms
(i.e., altered synchronization between neurons and enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate 
transmission) has a greater efficacy. Combined LEV/amantadine therapy might be
useful as an adjunct to L-DOPA to treat dyskinetic side effects and to expand the
population of Parkinson's disease patients who benefit from treatment with
amantadine alone.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.104.066191 
PMID: 15004218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

