

2844. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2004 Jul;310(1):386-94. Epub 2004 Mar 5.

Levetiracetam potentiates the antidyskinetic action of amantadine in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate model of
Parkinson's disease.

Hill MP(1), Ravenscroft P, Bezard E, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM, Michel A, Grim√©e
R, Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience Ltd, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Levetiracetam (LEV) (Keppra; UCB Pharma, Brussels, Belgium) has recently been
reported to have antidyskinetic activity against levodopa (L-DOPA)-induced
dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned
marmoset and macaque models of Parkinson's disease. Amantadine is frequently used
as adjunctive therapy for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, but adverse effects limit
its clinical utility. The current study was designed to investigate whether LEV
can potentiate the antidyskinetic action of amantadine. The antiparkinsonian and 
antidyskinetic effects of LEV (13 and 60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 
and 0.3 mg/kg), administered alone and in combination, were assessed in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (n = 12). LEV (60
mg/kg) and amantadine (0.3 mg/kg) administered alone significantly reduced
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia without compromising the antiparkinsonian action of
l-DOPA. Lower doses were without any significant effects. The combination of LEV 
(60 mg/kg) and amantadine (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg) significantly
decreased dyskinesia severity, without compromising the antiparkinsonian action
of L-DOPA, more efficaciously than LEV or amantadine monotherapy. These results
support the concept that normalization of different pathophysiological mechanisms
(i.e., altered synchronization between neurons and enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate 
transmission) has a greater efficacy. Combined LEV/amantadine therapy might be
useful as an adjunct to L-DOPA to treat dyskinetic side effects and to expand the
population of Parkinson's disease patients who benefit from treatment with
amantadine alone.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.104.066191 
PMID: 15004218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2845. Hybrid Hybridomics. 2004 Feb;23(1):29-37.

Characterization of monoclonal antibody to the Epstein-Barr virus BHRF1 protein, 
a homologue of Bcl-2.

Chou SP(1), Tsai CH, Li LY, Liu MY, Chen JY.

Author information: 
(1)National Health Research Institutes, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.

A monoclonal antibody (MAb), designated 3E8, was produced against the
Epstein-Barr virus BHRF1 which is a viral homologue of the anti-apoptotic protein
Bcl-2. The MAb recognized the BHRF1 protein in extracts from EBV-containing cell 
lines after activation and EBV-negative cell lines transfected by the BHRF1 gene.
Epitope mapping by Western blot analysis revealed that the antibody bound region 
encompassing amino acid residues 28-33 of the BHRF1. In addition to
immunoblotting, the MAb could be applied widely in detection of the BHRF1 in many
assays, including immunofluorescence assay, immunohistochemistry, enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay and immunoprecipitation. Most of all, when used in
immunoprecipitation experiments, the MAb 3E8 showed a better effect than the
existing anti-BHRF1 MAbs since radioactive isotopes were not required to
intensify signals of its target antigen. Based on its great use in a variety of
immunological reactions, it is a powerful tool to elucidate the biological
functions of BHRF1.

DOI: 10.1089/153685904322772006 
PMID: 15000846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

