

2845. Hybrid Hybridomics. 2004 Feb;23(1):29-37.

Characterization of monoclonal antibody to the Epstein-Barr virus BHRF1 protein, 
a homologue of Bcl-2.

Chou SP(1), Tsai CH, Li LY, Liu MY, Chen JY.

Author information: 
(1)National Health Research Institutes, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.

A monoclonal antibody (MAb), designated 3E8, was produced against the
Epstein-Barr virus BHRF1 which is a viral homologue of the anti-apoptotic protein
Bcl-2. The MAb recognized the BHRF1 protein in extracts from EBV-containing cell 
lines after activation and EBV-negative cell lines transfected by the BHRF1 gene.
Epitope mapping by Western blot analysis revealed that the antibody bound region 
encompassing amino acid residues 28-33 of the BHRF1. In addition to
immunoblotting, the MAb could be applied widely in detection of the BHRF1 in many
assays, including immunofluorescence assay, immunohistochemistry, enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assay and immunoprecipitation. Most of all, when used in
immunoprecipitation experiments, the MAb 3E8 showed a better effect than the
existing anti-BHRF1 MAbs since radioactive isotopes were not required to
intensify signals of its target antigen. Based on its great use in a variety of
immunological reactions, it is a powerful tool to elucidate the biological
functions of BHRF1.

DOI: 10.1089/153685904322772006 
PMID: 15000846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2846. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2004 Mar 1;195(2):142-53.

Blood burden of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate and its primary metabolite
mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate in pregnant and nonpregnant rats and marmosets.

Kessler W(1), Numtip W, Grote K, Csanády GA, Chahoud I, Filser JG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology, GSF National Research Center for Environment and
Health, Ingolstädter Landstr. 1, D-85764 Neuherberg, Germany.

A comparison of the dose-dependent blood burden of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
(DEHP) and mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP) in pregnant and nonpregnant rats
and marmosets is presented. Sprague-Dawley rats and marmosets were treated orally
with 30 or 500 mg DEHP/kg per day, nonpregnant animals on 7 (rats) and 29
(marmosets) consecutive days, pregnant animals on gestation days 14-19 (rats) and
96-124 (marmosets). In addition, rats received a single dose of 1000 mg DEHP/kg. 
Blood was collected up to 48 h after dosing. Concentrations of DEHP and MEHP in
blood were determined by GC/MS. In rats, normalized areas under the
concentration-time curves (AUCs) of DEHP were two orders of magnitude smaller
than the normalized AUCs of the first metabolite MEHP. Metabolism of MEHP was
saturable. Repeated DEHP treatment and pregnancy had only little influence on the
normalized AUC of MEHP. In marmosets, most of MEHP concentration-time courses
oscillated. Normalized AUCs of DEHP were at least one order of magnitude smaller 
than those of MEHP. In pregnant marmosets, normalized AUCs of MEHP were similar
to those in nonpregnant animals with the exception that at 500 mg DEHP/kg per
day, the normalized AUCs determined on gestation days 103, 117, and 124 were
distinctly smaller. The maximum concentrations of MEHP in blood of marmosets were
up to 7.5 times and the normalized AUCs up to 16 times lower than in rats
receiving the same daily oral DEHP dose per kilogram of body weight. From this
toxicokinetic comparison, DEHP can be expected to be several times less effective
in the offspring of marmosets than in that of rats if the blood burden by MEHP in
dams can be regarded as a dose surrogate for the MEHP burden in their fetuses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2003.11.014 
PMID: 14998681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

