

2846. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2004 Mar 1;195(2):142-53.

Blood burden of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate and its primary metabolite
mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate in pregnant and nonpregnant rats and marmosets.

Kessler W(1), Numtip W, Grote K, Csanády GA, Chahoud I, Filser JG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology, GSF National Research Center for Environment and
Health, Ingolstädter Landstr. 1, D-85764 Neuherberg, Germany.

A comparison of the dose-dependent blood burden of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
(DEHP) and mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP) in pregnant and nonpregnant rats
and marmosets is presented. Sprague-Dawley rats and marmosets were treated orally
with 30 or 500 mg DEHP/kg per day, nonpregnant animals on 7 (rats) and 29
(marmosets) consecutive days, pregnant animals on gestation days 14-19 (rats) and
96-124 (marmosets). In addition, rats received a single dose of 1000 mg DEHP/kg. 
Blood was collected up to 48 h after dosing. Concentrations of DEHP and MEHP in
blood were determined by GC/MS. In rats, normalized areas under the
concentration-time curves (AUCs) of DEHP were two orders of magnitude smaller
than the normalized AUCs of the first metabolite MEHP. Metabolism of MEHP was
saturable. Repeated DEHP treatment and pregnancy had only little influence on the
normalized AUC of MEHP. In marmosets, most of MEHP concentration-time courses
oscillated. Normalized AUCs of DEHP were at least one order of magnitude smaller 
than those of MEHP. In pregnant marmosets, normalized AUCs of MEHP were similar
to those in nonpregnant animals with the exception that at 500 mg DEHP/kg per
day, the normalized AUCs determined on gestation days 103, 117, and 124 were
distinctly smaller. The maximum concentrations of MEHP in blood of marmosets were
up to 7.5 times and the normalized AUCs up to 16 times lower than in rats
receiving the same daily oral DEHP dose per kilogram of body weight. From this
toxicokinetic comparison, DEHP can be expected to be several times less effective
in the offspring of marmosets than in that of rats if the blood burden by MEHP in
dams can be regarded as a dose surrogate for the MEHP burden in their fetuses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2003.11.014 
PMID: 14998681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2847. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2003;15(7-8):367-75.

Flow cytometric sorting of frozen-thawed spermatozoa in sheep and non-human
primates.

O'Brien JK(1), Hollinshead FK, Evans KM, Evans G, Maxwell WM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Advanced Technologies in Animal Genetics and Reproduction, Faculty 
of Veterinary Science, The University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.
justineo@vetsci.usyd.edu.au

Research was conducted in sheep to determine an effective preparation method for 
high-purity sorting of frozen-thawed spermatozoa. The efficacy of sorting
frozen-thawed spermatozoa was then investigated in several non-human primate
species. An aliquot of each ejaculate (three rams, three ejaculates per ram) was 
processed as a fresh control (FRESH). Frozen spermatozoa were thawed and prepared
for sorting by no further processing (FT-NEAT), washing (FT-WASH) or gradient
centrifugation (FT-GRADIENT) and evaluated for motility at 1 h post-staining and 
motility and acrosomal status at 0 and 4 h post-sorting. Samples were analysed
using a high-speed cell sorter. High levels of purity for X- and Y-enriched
samples were achieved for all treatments (85-92%). The percentage of motile
spermatozoa before sorting was lower (P < 0.05) for frozen-thawed samples
(FT-NEAT: 32.7 +/- 2.5%; FT-WASH: 32.2 +/- 3.3%; FT-GRADIENT: 73.9 +/- 3.7%)
compared with FRESH (83.3 +/- 1.2%). Post-sorting, the percentage of motile
spermatozoa before and after incubation for FT-NEAT (60.0 +/- 5.1% and 27.2 +/-
6.1% for 0 and 4 h, respectively) was lower than that for FRESH (87.8 +/- 0.9%
and 83.3 +/- 1.2% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05), FT-WASH (80.0 +/- 2.4% 
and 71.7 +/- 3.6% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05) and FT-GRADIENT (84.4
+/- 1.3% and 77.2 +/- 1.7% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05). Vanguard sperm
migration distance through artificial cervical mucus was lower (P < 0.05) for
FT-NEAT (17.7 +/- 1.7 mm) compared with FT-WASH (29.1 +/- 3.8 mm) and FT-GRADIENT
(28.4 +/- 2.0 mm) and similar (P < 0.05) to FRESH (23.7 +/- 1.8 mm). Sample
preparation using a modified wash method enabled high-purity sorting (range
86-97% purity) of frozen-thawed epididymal spermatozoa in the baboon (Papio
hamadryas), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and common chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes). For all non-human primate species, sorted spermatozoa were
progressively motile (marmoset: 20.5 +/- 5.5%; baboon: 37.5 +/- 2.5%; chimpanzee:
73.0 +/- 2.0%), acrosome intact (marmoset: 68.5 +/- 7.5%; baboon: 89.5 +/- 1.5%; 
chimpanzee: 84.0 +/- 1.0%) and able to penetrate an artificial cervical mucus. In
summary, high-purity sorting of frozen-thawed ram and non-human primate
spermatozoa with recovery of progressively motile, acrosome-intact spermatozoa
was possible after processing to remove cryodiluent.

DOI: 10.1071/RD03065 
PMID: 14984693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

