

2847. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2003;15(7-8):367-75.

Flow cytometric sorting of frozen-thawed spermatozoa in sheep and non-human
primates.

O'Brien JK(1), Hollinshead FK, Evans KM, Evans G, Maxwell WM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Advanced Technologies in Animal Genetics and Reproduction, Faculty 
of Veterinary Science, The University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.
justineo@vetsci.usyd.edu.au

Research was conducted in sheep to determine an effective preparation method for 
high-purity sorting of frozen-thawed spermatozoa. The efficacy of sorting
frozen-thawed spermatozoa was then investigated in several non-human primate
species. An aliquot of each ejaculate (three rams, three ejaculates per ram) was 
processed as a fresh control (FRESH). Frozen spermatozoa were thawed and prepared
for sorting by no further processing (FT-NEAT), washing (FT-WASH) or gradient
centrifugation (FT-GRADIENT) and evaluated for motility at 1 h post-staining and 
motility and acrosomal status at 0 and 4 h post-sorting. Samples were analysed
using a high-speed cell sorter. High levels of purity for X- and Y-enriched
samples were achieved for all treatments (85-92%). The percentage of motile
spermatozoa before sorting was lower (P < 0.05) for frozen-thawed samples
(FT-NEAT: 32.7 +/- 2.5%; FT-WASH: 32.2 +/- 3.3%; FT-GRADIENT: 73.9 +/- 3.7%)
compared with FRESH (83.3 +/- 1.2%). Post-sorting, the percentage of motile
spermatozoa before and after incubation for FT-NEAT (60.0 +/- 5.1% and 27.2 +/-
6.1% for 0 and 4 h, respectively) was lower than that for FRESH (87.8 +/- 0.9%
and 83.3 +/- 1.2% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05), FT-WASH (80.0 +/- 2.4% 
and 71.7 +/- 3.6% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05) and FT-GRADIENT (84.4
+/- 1.3% and 77.2 +/- 1.7% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05). Vanguard sperm
migration distance through artificial cervical mucus was lower (P < 0.05) for
FT-NEAT (17.7 +/- 1.7 mm) compared with FT-WASH (29.1 +/- 3.8 mm) and FT-GRADIENT
(28.4 +/- 2.0 mm) and similar (P < 0.05) to FRESH (23.7 +/- 1.8 mm). Sample
preparation using a modified wash method enabled high-purity sorting (range
86-97% purity) of frozen-thawed epididymal spermatozoa in the baboon (Papio
hamadryas), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and common chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes). For all non-human primate species, sorted spermatozoa were
progressively motile (marmoset: 20.5 +/- 5.5%; baboon: 37.5 +/- 2.5%; chimpanzee:
73.0 +/- 2.0%), acrosome intact (marmoset: 68.5 +/- 7.5%; baboon: 89.5 +/- 1.5%; 
chimpanzee: 84.0 +/- 1.0%) and able to penetrate an artificial cervical mucus. In
summary, high-purity sorting of frozen-thawed ram and non-human primate
spermatozoa with recovery of progressively motile, acrosome-intact spermatozoa
was possible after processing to remove cryodiluent.

DOI: 10.1071/RD03065 
PMID: 14984693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2848. Am J Primatol. 2004 Feb;62(2):107-14.

Saliva sampling to assess cortisol levels in unrestrained common marmosets and
the effect of behavioral stress.

Cross N(1), Pines MK, Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Biological, Biomedical
and Molecular Sciences, University of New England, Armidale, NSW, Australia.

We report a method for taking saliva samples from unrestrained, captive marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) to assess levels of free cortisol. Saliva samples can be
obtained reliably, without any habituation, by encouraging the marmosets to lick 
and chew a cotton-wool bud coated in banana. Saliva is thus left on the bud. We
also tested sweetened fruit-drink crystals and a number of other substances, but 
none of these attracted all of the marmosets, and even flavors that were
effective once soon lost their attraction. The presence of banana in the samples 
collected was found to lower the measured concentration of cortisol; however, as 
shown in samples taken with and without the banana coating on the bud, it did so 
in a linear and consistent way, and did not vary significantly among subjects.
Therefore, a simple conversion factor could be applied to correct for the
presence of banana. A first experiment showed that the marmosets exhibited a rise
in salivary cortisol levels in response to social isolation. A second experiment 
showed elevation of cortisol during a period when the marmosets were disturbed by
increased human activity and noise levels in the building in which they were
housed. Hence, this method of saliva sampling is a convenient, noninvasive means 
of assessing cortisol levels in marmosets.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20005 
PMID: 14983468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

