

2850. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2004 Jun;309(3):921-35. Epub 2004 Feb 20.

S32504, a novel naphtoxazine agonist at dopamine D3/D2 receptors: II. Actions in 
rodent, primate, and cellular models of antiparkinsonian activity in comparison
to ropinirole.

Millan MJ(1), Di Cara B, Hill M, Jackson M, Joyce JN, Brotchie J, McGuire S,
Crossman A, Smith L, Jenner P, Gobert A, Peglion JL, Brocco M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Recherches Servier, Centre de Recherches de Croissy,
Psychopharmacology Department, Paris, France. mark.millan@fr.netgrs.com

These studies evaluated the potential antiparkinsonian properties of the novel
dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptor agonist S32504 [(+)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,
10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine] in comparison
with those of the clinically employed agonist ropinirole. In rats with a
unilateral, 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra, S32504 (0.0025-0.04
mg/kg, s.c.) more potently elicited contralateral rotation than S32601
[(-)-trans-3,4,4a,5,6,
10b-hexahydro-9-carbamoyl-4-propyl-2H-naphth-[1,2-b]-1,4-oxazine (its less active
enantiomer)], ropinirole, and l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA). Rotation
elicited by S32504 was blocked by the D(2)/D(3) receptor antagonists haloperidol 
and raclopride and by the D(2) antagonist L741,626
[4-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)piperidin-4-ol], but not by the D(3)
antagonist S33084
[(3aR,9bS)-N-[4-(8-cyano-1,3a,4,9b-tetrahydro-3H-benzopyrano[3,4-c]pyrrole-2-yl)-
butyl]-(4-phenyl)benzamide]. As assessed by dialysis in both lesioned and
nonlesioned animals, S32504 (0.04-2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) reduced striatal levels of
acetylcholine. This effect was blocked by raclopride, haloperidol, and L741,626
but not S33084. In rats treated with reserpine, hypolocomotion was reversed by
S32504 and, less potently, by ropinirole. In "unprimed" marmosets treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, both s.c. (0.01-0.04 mg/kg) and
p.o. (0.04-1.25 mg/kg) administration of S32504 dose-dependently and rapidly
(within 10 min) increased locomotor activity and reduced disability. Furthermore,
S32504 dose-dependently reversed bradykinesia and improved posture in
"L-DOPA-primed" animals, whereas eliciting less pronounced dyskinesia than
l-DOPA. Finally, in terminally differentiated SH-SY5Y cells presenting a
dopaminergic phenotype, S32504, but not S32601, abrogated the neurotoxic effects 
of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, an action inhibited by raclopride and S33084 but 
not L741,626. Ropinirole was weakly neuroprotective in this model. In conclusion,
S32504 displays potent and stereospecific activity in rodent, primate, and
cellular models of antiparkinsonian properties. Although activation of D(2)
receptors is crucial to the motor actions of S32504, engagement of D(3) receptors
contributes to its neuroprotective properties.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.103.062414 
PMID: 14978195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2851. J Mol Endocrinol. 2004 Feb;32(1):115-28.

Chorionic gonadotrophin beta subunit mRNA but not luteinising hormone beta
subunit mRNA is expressed in the pituitary of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Müller T(1), Simoni M, Pekel E, Luetjens CM, Chandolia R, Amato F, Norman RJ,
Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
D-48129 Münster, Germany.

The pituitary gonadotrophins LH and FSH are responsible for regulation of
gametogenesis in the testis and ovary. Chorionic gonadotrophin (CG), a third
closely related glycoprotein hormone derived by gene duplication of the LHbeta
gene and secreted by the placenta in primates, is essential for the rescue of the
corpus luteum and maintenance of pregnancy. We have recently shown that marmoset 
(m) CGbeta mRNA is highly expressed in the pituitary of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and that LH is less active than human CG in activating the
human LH receptor lacking exon 10. To investigate further which gonadotrophin is 
the actual ligand of the LH receptor (LHR) of the marmoset monkey that naturally 
lacks exon 10, we identified and characterised the genomic organisation of the
mLHbeta gene and its expression. Intergenic PCR amplification of the region
encompassing the mLHbeta and the mCGbeta genes revealed that, surprisingly,
mCGbeta is located 20 kbp upstream of the LHbeta gene, whereas in other species
the intergenic distance is approximately 2-3 kbp. Sequence analysis of the
mLHbeta coding region showed 70% identity to mCGbeta and 90% identity to human
LHbeta at the amino acid level. Both gonadotrophin beta subunits are present at
the genomic level, but RT-PCR of pituitary and placental total RNA using specific
oligonucleotides for mCGbeta and mLHbeta showed high expression of mCGbeta mRNA
in both tissues, whereas LHbeta was expressed neither in the pituitary nor in the
placenta. Thus mLHbeta mRNA is lacking in the marmoset pituitary.
Immunohistochemistry of marmoset pituitaries showed that mCG was confined to the 
gonadotrophes, and partly co-localised in cells stained positively for FSH.
Western blot analysis confirmed the presence of mCG in the pituitary. Northern
blot analysis using mCGbeta as a probe displayed one transcript of 0.7 kb in the 
pituitary and detected two transcripts of 1.1 kb and 2 kb in the marmoset
placenta. Our results suggest that, in the common marmoset, CG is the only
gonadotrophin with luteinising function that is present in the pituitary. We
postulate that, owing to an unknown mutational event in evolution, expression of 
mLH was completely abolished, and CG - which, unlike LH, acts normally even when 
exon 10 is missing from the LHR - took over its function.

DOI: 10.1677/jme.0.0320115 
PMID: 14765996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

