

2852. J Comp Neurol. 2004 Feb 16;469(4):494-506.

Synaptic connectivity of the diffuse bipolar cell type DB6 in the inner plexiform
layer of primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Lee SC, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13 and Institute for Biomedical Research, The
University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Diffuse bipolar cells in primate retina receive synaptic input from multiple
cones and provide output to ganglion cells. Diffuse bipolar cells can be
subdivided into six types (DB1-DB6) according to the stratification of their axon
terminals in the inner plexiform layer, but their synaptic connectivity in the
inner plexiform layer is not well understood. Here the stratification and
synaptic connectivity of DB6 axon terminals were studied in the retinae of New
World (marmoset) and Old World (macaque) monkeys. Immunohistochemical markers
were applied to retinal sections. The sections were analyzed by confocal and
deconvolution light microscopy as well as electron microscopy. The DB6 cells were
identified with antibodies against CD15; rod bipolar cells were identified with
antibodies against protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha); and AII amacrine cells were 
identified with antibodies against calretinin. The axons of DB6 and rod bipolar
cells occupy distinct regions in stratum 5 of the inner plexiform layer. The
distal processes of calretinin-labeled AII cells are usually closely associated
with rod bipolar axons but sometimes also with DB6 axons. Pre-embedding
immunoelectron microscopy showed that the vast majority (over 86%) of the
synaptic output of DB6 cells is onto amacrine cell processes, whereas less than
14% goes to ganglion cell processes. In double-labeled preparations DB6 axons
occasionally made output onto calretinin-labeled amacrine processes. Thus it is
possible that AII cells receive some input from DB6 cells.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.11027 
PMID: 14755531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2853. Eur J Neurosci. 2004 Jan;19(1):169-80.

First- and second-order stimulus length selectivity in New World monkey striate
cortex.

Bourne JA(1), Lui L, Tweedale R, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

Motion is a powerful cue for figure-ground segregation, allowing the recognition 
of shapes even if the luminance and texture characteristics of the stimulus and
background are matched. In order to investigate the neural processes underlying
early stages of the cue-invariant processing of form, we compared the responses
of neurons in the striate cortex (V1) of anaesthetized marmosets to two types of 
moving stimuli: bars defined by differences in luminance, and bars defined solely
by the coherent motion of random patterns that matched the texture and temporal
modulation of the background. A population of form-cue-invariant (FCI) neurons
was identified, which demonstrated similar tuning to the length of contours
defined by first- and second-order cues. FCI neurons were relatively common in
the supragranular layers (where they corresponded to 28% of the recorded units), 
but were absent from layer 4. Most had complex receptive fields, which were
significantly larger than those of other V1 neurons. The majority of FCI neurons 
demonstrated end-inhibition in response to long first- and second-order bars, and
were strongly direction selective. Thus, even at the level of V1 there are cells 
whose variations in response level appear to be determined by the shape and
motion of the entire second-order object, rather than by its parts (i.e. the
individual textural components). These results are compatible with the existence 
of an output channel from V1 to the ventral stream of extrastriate areas, which
already encodes the basic building blocks of the image in an invariant manner.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2004.03082.x 
PMID: 14750975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

