

2856. J Virol. 2004 Feb;78(4):2062-71.

Development of a GB virus B marmoset model and its validation with a novel series
of hepatitis C virus NS3 protease inhibitors.

Bright H(1), Carroll AR, Watts PA, Fenton RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, GlaxoSmithKline Medicines Research Centre, Stevenage, 
Hertfordshire SG1 2NY, United Kingdom. Helen.X.Bright@gsk.com

GB virus B (GBV-B), a flavivirus closely related to HCV, has previously been
shown to infect and replicate to high titers in tamarins (Saguinus sp.). This
study describes the use of GBV-B infection and replication in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) for the successful development and validation of a surrogate
animal model for hepatitis C virus (HCV). Infection of marmosets with GBV-B
produced a viremia that peaked at 10(8) to 10(9) genome copies/ml for a period of
40 to 60 days followed by viral clearance at 60 to 80 days postinfection. Passage
of the initial tamarin-derived GBV-B in marmosets produced an infectious stock
that gave a more reproducible and consistent infection in the marmoset. Titration
of the virus stocks in vivo indicated that they contained 1 infectious unit for
every 1,000 genome copies. Cultures of primary marmoset hepatocytes were also
successfully infected with GBV-B, with high levels of virus detected in
supernatants and cells for up to 14 days postinfection. Treatment of
GBV-B-infected hepatocyte cultures with a novel class of HCV protease inhibitor
(pyrrolidine 5,5 trans-lactams) reduced viral levels by more than 2 logs.
Treatment of GBV-B-infected marmosets with one such inhibitor resulted in a 3-log
drop in serum viral titer over 4 days of therapy. These studies provide the first
demonstration of the in vivo efficacy of a small-molecule inhibitor for HCV in an
animal model and illustrate the utility of GBV-B as a surrogate animal model
system for HCV.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.78.4.2062-2071.2004 
PMCID: PMC369465
PMID: 14747571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2857. J Appl Toxicol. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):59-68.

Low-level exposure of guinea pigs and marmosets to sarin vapour in air:
lowest-observable-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) for miosis.

van Helden HP(1), Trap HC, Kuijpers WC, Oostdijk JP, Benschop HP, Langenberg JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Countermeasures, TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, PO Box
45, 2280 AA Rijswijk, The Netherlands. helden@pml.tno.nl

The purpose of this pilot study was to indicate, for low-level exposure of
conscious guinea pigs and marmoset monkeys to sarin vapour in air, the
lowest-observable-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) of sarin for miosis. This is the
concentration x time (C.t) value (t = 5 h) of exposure at which miosis becomes
significant. The ratio of pupil and iris diameters, measured on digital
photographs taken on-line during exposure, was calculated as a measure for
miosis. The exposure concentrations were in the range 7-150 microg x m(-3) and
the exposure times needed to achieve significant miosis were in the range 10-300 
min. Both vehicle- and pyridostigmine-pretreated animals were used in the
experiments. The latter pretreatment resulted in ca. 30% inhibition of
erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase in both species. In vehicle-pretreated guinea
pigs and marmosets the pupil size was decreased significantly (P < 0.05) at sarin
doses of 1.8 +/- 0.3 and 2.5 +/- 0.8 mg x min x m(-3), respectively. In
pyridostigmine-pretreated guinea pigs and marmosets the pupil size was affected
significantly (P < 0.05) at 1.8 +/- 0.5 and 3.0 +/- 0.8 mg x min x m(-3),
respectively. Evidently there is no significant influence of pyridostigmine
pretreatment on the LOAEL. These data were addressed in light of the recommended 
occupational and detection limits for sarin vapour in air. It was concluded that 
miosis will occur during low-level sarin exposure at levels that are not
detectable by the currently fielded alarm systems, assuming that humans are as
sensitive for sarin vapour in air as guinea pigs and marmosets.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.948 
PMID: 14745848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

