

2858. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2004 Feb;19(2):168-75.

Activation of neural pathways associated with sexual arousal in non-human
primates.

Ferris CF(1), Snowdon CT, King JA, Sullivan JM Jr, Ziegler TE, Olson DP,
Schultz-Darken NJ, Tannenbaum PL, Ludwig R, Wu Z, Einspanier A, Vaughan JT, Duong
TQ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Comparative Neuroimaging, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01655, USA. craig.ferris@umassmed.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate brain activity associated with sexual arousal, fully
conscious male marmoset monkeys were imaged during presentation of odors that
naturally elicit high levels of sexual activity and sexual motivation.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Male monkeys were lightly anesthetized, secured in a head
and body restrainer with a built-in birdcage resonator and positioned in a
9.4-Tesla spectrometer. When fully conscious, monkeys were presented with the
odors of a novel receptive female or an ovariectomized monkey. Both odors were
presented during an imaging trial and the presentation of odors was
counterbalanced. Significant changes in both positive and negative BOLD signal
were mapped and averaged.
RESULTS: Periovulatory odors significantly increased positive BOLD signal in
several cortical areas: the striatum, hippocampus, septum, periaqueductal gray,
and cerebellum, in comparison with odors from ovariectomized monkeys. Conversely,
negative BOLD signal was significantly increased in the temporal cortex,
cingulate cortex, putamen, hippocampus, substantia nigra, medial preoptic area,
and cerebellum with presentation of odors from ovariectomized marmosets as
compared to periovulatory odors. A common neural circuit comprising the temporal 
and cingulate cortices, putamen, hippocampus, medial preoptic area, and
cerebellum shared both the positive BOLD response to periovulatory odors and the 
negative BOLD response to odors of ovariectomized females.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest the odor-driven enhancement and suppression of
sexual arousal affect neuronal activity in many of the same general brain areas. 
These areas included not only those associated with sexual activity, but also
areas involved in emotional processing and reward.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.10456 
PMCID: PMC1525212
PMID: 14745749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2859. Mov Disord. 2004 Jan;19(1):15-21.

The monoamine reuptake inhibitor BTS 74 398 fails to evoke established dyskinesia
but does not synergise with levodopa in MPTP-treated primates.

Hansard MJ(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Cheetham SC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) with levodopa (L-dopa) induces
dyskinesia that, once established, is provoked by each dose of L-dopa or a
dopamine (DA) agonist. In contrast, monoamine reuptake inhibitors may reverse
motor deficits in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated
primates without provoking established involuntary movements. We now examine
whether the potent monoamine reuptake blocker BTS 74 398 induces established
dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets primed previously with L-dopa and
whether co-administration of BTS 74 398 with L-dopa potentiates motor behaviour
and dyskinesia induced by acute L-dopa treatment. Administration of BTS 74 398
(2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg, p.o.) in MPTP-treated common marmosets increased
locomotor activity and reduced motor disability in a dose-related manner but did 
not provoke involuntary movements. BTS 74 398 (2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg p.o.)
co-administered with a threshold dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg p.o.) did not evoke a 
motor response or induce dyskinesia. Similarly, concomitant administration of BTS
74 398 (5.0 mg/kg p.o.) with a submaximal L-dopa dose (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) did not
potentiate the motor response produced by L-dopa alone and there was no
alteration in the dyskinesia provoked by L-dopa challenge. BTS 74 398 reverses
motor abnormalities in MPTP-treated marmosets without evoking established
dyskinesia but no additive improvement occurs when administered in combination
with L-dopa. The lack of synergy with L-dopa may suggest different sites of drug 
action.

Copyright 2003 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10596 
PMID: 14743355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

