

2859. Mov Disord. 2004 Jan;19(1):15-21.

The monoamine reuptake inhibitor BTS 74 398 fails to evoke established dyskinesia
but does not synergise with levodopa in MPTP-treated primates.

Hansard MJ(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Cheetham SC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) with levodopa (L-dopa) induces
dyskinesia that, once established, is provoked by each dose of L-dopa or a
dopamine (DA) agonist. In contrast, monoamine reuptake inhibitors may reverse
motor deficits in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated
primates without provoking established involuntary movements. We now examine
whether the potent monoamine reuptake blocker BTS 74 398 induces established
dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets primed previously with L-dopa and
whether co-administration of BTS 74 398 with L-dopa potentiates motor behaviour
and dyskinesia induced by acute L-dopa treatment. Administration of BTS 74 398
(2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg, p.o.) in MPTP-treated common marmosets increased
locomotor activity and reduced motor disability in a dose-related manner but did 
not provoke involuntary movements. BTS 74 398 (2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg p.o.)
co-administered with a threshold dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg p.o.) did not evoke a 
motor response or induce dyskinesia. Similarly, concomitant administration of BTS
74 398 (5.0 mg/kg p.o.) with a submaximal L-dopa dose (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) did not
potentiate the motor response produced by L-dopa alone and there was no
alteration in the dyskinesia provoked by L-dopa challenge. BTS 74 398 reverses
motor abnormalities in MPTP-treated marmosets without evoking established
dyskinesia but no additive improvement occurs when administered in combination
with L-dopa. The lack of synergy with L-dopa may suggest different sites of drug 
action.

Copyright 2003 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10596 
PMID: 14743355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2860. J Parasitol. 2003 Dec;89(6):1163-6.

Pterygodermatites nycticebi (Nematoda: Rictulariidae): accidental detection of
encapsulated third-stage larvae in the tissue of a white-fronted marmoset.

Sato H(1), Matsuo K, Kamiya H, Ishikawa T, Okabayashi S, Kishi N, Une Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology, Hirosaki University School of Medicine, Hirosaki
036-8562, Japan. sato7dp4@cc.hirosaki-u.ac.jp

Twin, white-fronted marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi) born and raised in a zoo in 
Japan died at 7 mo of age. Several encapsulated nematode larvae were detected in 
the intestinal wall, as well as a few in the mesenteric lymph nodes of 1 of the
twins. In the other marmoset, no encapsulated nematode larva was detected in the 
organs, but many adult Pterygodermatites nycticebi were found in the intestinal
lumen. In the past 5 yr, 5 primates kept in the same zoo, i.e., 1 squirrel monkey
(Saimiri sciureus), 2 Pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea), 1 Senegal galago
(Galago senegalensis), and 1 cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus), died from
heavy infestation with the same nematode. A few migrating larvae of the
rictulariid were also identified histologically in the intestinal wall and liver 
of the cotton-top tamarin. Although no other primate currently held in the same
zoo was infected with the rictulariid, German cockroaches (Blattella germanica)
collected with traps near marmoset cages had encapsulated P. nycticebi larvae,
indicating latent perpetuation of the life cycle of this rictulariid species in
the zoo premises. Our results indicated that encapsulation or migration of
third-stage larvae of P. nycticebi might occur accidentally in the organs of
callithrichid primates.

DOI: 10.1645/GE-3216 
PMID: 14740905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

