

2861. J Eukaryot Microbiol. 2003;50 Suppl:581-2.

Microsporidia detection in stools from pets and animals from the zoo in Portugal:
a preliminary study.

Lobo ML(1), Teles A, da Cunha MB, Henriques J, Lourenço AM, Antunes F, Matos O.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Higiene e Medicina Tropical/Unidade de Protozoários
Oportunistas/VIH e outras Protozooses/UPMM, Rua da Junqueira, 96 1349-008 Lisboa,
Portugal. mluisaloboc@ihmt.unl.pt

DOI: 10.1111/j.1550-7408.2003.tb00638.x 
PMID: 14736171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2862. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2004 Jan 20;1688(1):10-7.

Role of lipid interactions in autoimmune demyelination.

Ohler B(1), Graf K, Bragg R, Lemons T, Coe R, Genain C, Israelachvili J, Husted
C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Study of Neurodegenerative Disorders, Neuroscience Research
Institute, Biological Sciences 2, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA
93106-5060, USA.

A morphological transformation involving loss of adhesion between myelin lamellae
and formation of myelin vesicles has been described as a mechanism for
demyelination in multiple sclerosis and marmoset experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although protein interactions are involved in
maintaining normal myelin structure, we describe here how lipids contribute to
myelin stability and how lipid changes in EAE, including increases in lipid
polyunsaturation and negatively charged phosphatidylserine (PS), promote
demyelination. Three physico-chemical techniques were used to identify these
changes: (1) Langmuir monolayer isotherms indicated that EAE white matter lipids 
were significantly more "expanded" (fluid) than controls. (2) NMR spectroscopy
indicated that EAE myelin lipids were more polyunsaturated than controls. (3)
High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with an evaporative light
scattering detector indicated increased PS in EAE compared to controls, while
sphingomyelin (SM), sulfatides and phosphatidylcholine (PC) were decreased. We
present a physical model considering electrostatic, van der Waals and undulation 
forces to quantify the effect of these changes on myelin adhesion at the
extracellular interface. Taken together, the isotherm, NMR, HPLC and modeling
results support a mechanism for autoimmune demyelination whereby the composition 
of myelin lipids is altered in a manner that increases myelin fluidity, decreases
myelin adhesion, increases membrane curvature, and promotes vesiculation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2003.10.001 
PMID: 14732476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

