

2864. Genomics. 2004 Feb;83(2):193-202.

Plasticity of human chromosome 3 during primate evolution.

Tsend-Ayush E(1), Grützner F, Yue Y, Grossmann B, Hänsel U, Sudbrak R, Haaf T.

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Genomics Group, Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian
National University, Canberra ACT 2601, Australia.

Comparative mapping of more than 100 region-specific clones from human chromosome
3 in Bornean and Sumatran orangutans, siamang gibbon, and Old and New World
monkeys allowed us to reconstruct ancestral simian and hominoid chromosomes. A
single paracentric inversion derives chromosome 1 of the Old World monkey
Presbytis cristata from the simian ancestor. In the New World monkey Callithrix
geoffroyi and siamang, the ancestor diverged on multiple chromosomes, through
utilizing different breakpoints. One shared and two independent inversions derive
Bornean orangutan 2 and human 3, implying that neither Bornean orangutans nor
humans have conserved the ancestral chromosome form. The inversions, fissions,
and translocations in the five species analyzed involve at least 14 different
evolutionary breakpoints along the entire length of human 3; however, particular 
regions appear to be more susceptible to chromosome reshuffling. The ancestral
pericentromeric region has promoted both large-scale and micro-rearrangements.
Small segments homologous to human 3q11.2 and 3q21.2 were repositioned
intrachromosomally independent of the surrounding markers in the orangutan
lineage. Breakage and rearrangement of the human 3p12.3 region were associated
with extensive intragenomic duplications at multiple orangutan and gibbon
subtelomeric sites. We propose that new chromosomes and genomes arise through
large-scale rearrangements of evolutionarily conserved genomic building blocks
and additional duplication, amplification, and/or repositioning of inherently
unstable smaller DNA segments contained within them.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2003.08.012 
PMID: 14706448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2865. Ann Anat. 2003 Dec;185(6):543-7.

Morphological characteristics of dopaminergic immunoreactive neurons in the
olfactory bulb of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Jeong YG(1), Lee NS, Lee KY, Chung SH, Hwang IK, Suh JG, Kang TC, Hyun BH, Oh YS,
Won MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine, Konyang University, Nonsan
320-711, Republic of Korea.

The present study describes the distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase
(TH)-immunoreactive (IR) elements in the olfactory bulb of the common marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus), a primate species by immunohistochemistry. We
identified six layers of the olfactory bulb of the common marmoset monkey in
sections stained with cresyl violet. The majority of TH-IR cells were found in
the glomerular layer. A few TH-IR cells were present in the external plexiform
and granule cell layers. TH-IR fibers were identified in all layers of the
olfactory bulb. The density of these nerve fibers was high in the internal
plexiform and granule cell layers. The results in the olfactory bulb of the
common marmoset monkey are generally similar to previous reports in some mammals.
These data suggest that TH in the olfactory bulb of the common marmoset monkey
may play a role in olfactory transmission via the glomeruli like in other
mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(03)80123-1 
PMID: 14703999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

