

2867. Virology. 2003 Dec 20;317(2):299-307.

Species-specific transformation of T cells by HV(MNE).

Ferrari MG(1), Stevceva L, Markham P, Franchini G.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Models and Retroviral Vaccines Section, National Cancer Institute,
41/D804, Bethesda, MD 20892-5055, USA.

HV(MNE) is an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-like lymphocryptovirus (LCV) originally
isolated from a Macaca nemestrina with CD8(+) T cell mycosis fungoides/cutaneous 
T cell lymphoma (Blood 98 (2001), 2193). HV(MNE) transforms rabbit T cells in
vitro and causes T cell lymphoma in New Zealand white rabbits. Here we
demonstrate that HV(MNE) also immortalizes T cells from mustached tamarins but
not those from owl monkeys, common marmosets, squirrel monkeys, black-capped
capuchins, and humans. Cytogenetic and FACS analysis revealed the true origin and
T cell lineage of the transformed tamarin T cell lines. Tamarin T cells contained
HV(MNE) DNA sequence and displayed a decreased requirement for the IL-2 cytokine 
for growth. Thus, this EBV-like virus from M. nemestrina differs from the other
EBV-like viruses found in nonhuman primates inasmuch as it appears to
preferentially transform T cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2003.08.030 
PMID: 14698668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2868. Neurosci Lett. 2004 Jan 2;354(1):6-9.

Modafinil prevents the MPTP-induced increase in GABAA receptor binding in the
internal globus pallidus of MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Zeng BY(1), Smith LA, Pearce RK, Tel B, Chancharme L, Moachon G, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School
of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

The psychostimulant drug modafinil induces a reversal of motor deficits in MPTP
treated primates and prevents MPTP toxicity to substantia nigra but its mechanism
of action is not clear. In common marmosets acutely treated with MPTP in the
presence or absence of modafinil, we have studied changes in GABA(A) receptor
binding in the basal ganglia. MPTP treatment had no effect on
[(3)H]-flunitrazepam (FNZ) binding density in the striatum or external globus
pallidus (GPe) but increased [(3)H]-FNZ binding density in the internal globus
pallidus (GPi). Administration of modafinil (10-100 mg/kg) with MPTP did not
alter [(3)H]-FNZ binding density in the striatum or GPe. Low doses of modafinil
(10 and 30 mg/kg) had no effect on the increased [(3)H]-FNZ binding density in
the GPi but high dose modafinil (100 mg/kg) significantly decreased [(3)H]-FNZ
binding density in GPi. These findings suggest that modafinil can selectively
alter GABA binding density in the GPi either by preventing MPTP-induced toxicity 
or through an action on striatal output pathway related to its antiparkinsonian
activity and its ability to inhibit MPTP toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2003.08.038 
PMID: 14698469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

