

2868. Neurosci Lett. 2004 Jan 2;354(1):6-9.

Modafinil prevents the MPTP-induced increase in GABAA receptor binding in the
internal globus pallidus of MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Zeng BY(1), Smith LA, Pearce RK, Tel B, Chancharme L, Moachon G, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School
of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

The psychostimulant drug modafinil induces a reversal of motor deficits in MPTP
treated primates and prevents MPTP toxicity to substantia nigra but its mechanism
of action is not clear. In common marmosets acutely treated with MPTP in the
presence or absence of modafinil, we have studied changes in GABA(A) receptor
binding in the basal ganglia. MPTP treatment had no effect on
[(3)H]-flunitrazepam (FNZ) binding density in the striatum or external globus
pallidus (GPe) but increased [(3)H]-FNZ binding density in the internal globus
pallidus (GPi). Administration of modafinil (10-100 mg/kg) with MPTP did not
alter [(3)H]-FNZ binding density in the striatum or GPe. Low doses of modafinil
(10 and 30 mg/kg) had no effect on the increased [(3)H]-FNZ binding density in
the GPi but high dose modafinil (100 mg/kg) significantly decreased [(3)H]-FNZ
binding density in GPi. These findings suggest that modafinil can selectively
alter GABA binding density in the GPi either by preventing MPTP-induced toxicity 
or through an action on striatal output pathway related to its antiparkinsonian
activity and its ability to inhibit MPTP toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2003.08.038 
PMID: 14698469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2869. Synapse. 2004 Mar 15;51(4):249-69.

Detailed distribution of neuropeptide FF receptors (NPFF1 and NPFF2) in the rat, 
mouse, octodon, rabbit, guinea pig, and marmoset monkey brains: a comparative
autoradiographic study.

Gouard√®res C(1), Puget A, Zajac JM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Pharmacologie et de Biologie Structurale, CNRS UMR 5089, 31077
Toulouse Cedex, France.

The distribution of neuropeptide FF receptors (NPFF(1) and NPFF(2)) was analyzed 
throughout the central nervous system of rodents (rat, mouse, Octodon degus, and 
guinea pig), rabbit, and marmoset monkey brains, representing three orders of
mammals. Quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography with [(125)I]EYF
([(125)I]EYWSLAAPQRF-NH(2)) and [(125)I]YVP ([(125)I]YVPNLPQRF-NH(2)) as specific
radioligands for NPFF(2) and NPFF(1) receptors, respectively, was used. The
NPFF(2) receptor is predominantly expressed in all species, except in the central
nervous system of Octodon degus, in which it is undetectable. The density of the 
NPFF(1) subtype is low in rat and mice, moderate in octodon, rabbit, and monkey, 
and relatively high in the guinea pig. The present study reveals prominent
species differences in the NPFF receptors expression in the brain. The
distribution pattern of NPFF(2) receptors in the diencephalon and the superficial
layers of the spinal cord is consistent with a hypothesized potential role for
NPFF in the modulation of sensory input and opioid analgesia. In contrast, the
constant presence of NPFF(1) receptors in the septum, the nucleus of the tractus 
solitarius, and the hypothalamus suggest its participation in neuroendocrine
functions.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/syn.10305 
PMID: 14696013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

