

2873. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2004 Jan;123(1):11-22.

Systematics and evolution of the Jacchus group of marmosets (Platyrrhini).

Marroig G(1), Cropp S, Cheverud JM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Celular e Genética, Instituto de Biologia,
Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 20550-013.
Gmarroig@ib.usp.br

Interspecific differentiation and geographic variation patterns in 39 skull
traits of eastern Brazilian marmosets are analyzed. Eastern Callithrix taxa are
distinct morphologically, and no evidence of intergradation among taxa is
observed. Instead, there are sharp, stepped morphological boundaries among taxa, 
consistent with species-level distinction. The morphological similarity cluster
diagram obtained from Mahalanobis distances is different from available molecular
trees, and the general picture emerging is that the eastern Callithrix taxa
should be considered as good species arising recently in South American history. 
In particular, C. kuhlii is morphologically distinct from other marmoset taxa,
including C. geoffroyi and C. penicillata, which were previously hypothesized to 
be the parental populations that formed C. kuhlii by hybridization. Furthermore, 
C. kuhlii populations from southeastern Bahia do not overlap morphologically with
any C. penicillata population, including the upper São Francisco River
populations that display skin colors and pelage patterns to some extent similar
to true Kuhli's marmosets. There is a negative, though insignificant, correlation
between the morphological distance matrix and a Mahalanobis distance matrix
estimated from nine climatic variables, a pattern opposite to that expected under
a parapatric speciation model. This result, together with the lack of clinal
variation in skull traits, suggests that an allopatric model of speciation might 
best explain eastern marmoset diversification.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10146 
PMID: 14669232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2874. Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Dec 15;482(1-3):197-203.

Anxiolytic-like effects of the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 in
non-human primates.

Barros M(1), Mello EL, Maior RS, Müller CP, de Souza Silva MA, Carey RJ, Huston
JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Non-human primates provide important insights into the potential use of 5-HT(1A) 
receptor antagonists in treating human anxiety disorders and as research tools,
given the existent inconsistencies in rodent tests. This study investigated the
effects of the selective silent 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist
N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexane-carboxa
mide trihydrochloride (WAY 100635), administered systemically, in an
ethologically based fear/anxiety test in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
penicillata). Subjects were tested using a figure-eight maze and a taxidermized
wild cat as 'predator' stimulus. After seven 30-min maze habituations in the
absence of the 'predator', each animal was submitted to four pseudo-randomly
assigned 30-min treatment trials in the presence of the 'predator': three WAY
100635 (0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) sessions and a saline control trial. The
'predator' stimulus caused a significant fear-induced avoidance of the maze
sections closest to where it was presented, indicating an anxiogenic effect.
However, WAY 100635 treatment reversed, significantly and dose-dependently, this 
fear-induced avoidance behavior, while increasing maze exploration. Sedation was 
not observed. This is the first study to suggest an anxiolytic-like effect of the
selective silent 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY 100635 in non-human primates,
indicating its potential use as a therapeutic agent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2003.09.064 
PMID: 14660023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

