

2874. Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Dec 15;482(1-3):197-203.

Anxiolytic-like effects of the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 in
non-human primates.

Barros M(1), Mello EL, Maior RS, MÃ¼ller CP, de Souza Silva MA, Carey RJ, Huston
JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Non-human primates provide important insights into the potential use of 5-HT(1A) 
receptor antagonists in treating human anxiety disorders and as research tools,
given the existent inconsistencies in rodent tests. This study investigated the
effects of the selective silent 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist
N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexane-carboxa
mide trihydrochloride (WAY 100635), administered systemically, in an
ethologically based fear/anxiety test in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
penicillata). Subjects were tested using a figure-eight maze and a taxidermized
wild cat as 'predator' stimulus. After seven 30-min maze habituations in the
absence of the 'predator', each animal was submitted to four pseudo-randomly
assigned 30-min treatment trials in the presence of the 'predator': three WAY
100635 (0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) sessions and a saline control trial. The
'predator' stimulus caused a significant fear-induced avoidance of the maze
sections closest to where it was presented, indicating an anxiogenic effect.
However, WAY 100635 treatment reversed, significantly and dose-dependently, this 
fear-induced avoidance behavior, while increasing maze exploration. Sedation was 
not observed. This is the first study to suggest an anxiolytic-like effect of the
selective silent 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY 100635 in non-human primates,
indicating its potential use as a therapeutic agent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2003.09.064 
PMID: 14660023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2875. J Neurosci. 2003 Dec 3;23(35):11189-201.

Lesions of the orbitofrontal but not medial prefrontal cortex disrupt conditioned
reinforcement in primates.

Pears A(1), Parkinson JA, Hopewell L, Everitt BJ, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 3DY, United
Kingdom.

The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (PFC) is implicated in affective and motivated
behaviors. Damage to this region, which includes the orbitofrontal cortex as well
as ventral sectors of medial PFC, causes profound changes in emotional and social
behavior, including impairments in certain aspects of decision making. One
reinforcement mechanism that may well contribute to these behaviors is
conditioned reinforcement, whereby previously neutral stimuli in the environment,
by virtue of their association with primary rewards, take on reinforcing value
and come to support instrumental action. Conditioned reinforcers are powerful
determinants of behavior and can maintain responding over protracted periods of
time in the absence of and potentially in conflict with primary reinforcers. It
has already been shown that conditioned reinforcement is dependent on the
amygdala, and because the amygdala projects to both the orbitofrontal cortex and 
the medial PFC, the present study determined whether conditioned reinforcement
was also dependent on one or the other of these prefrontal regions. Comparison of
the behavioral effects of selective excitotoxic lesions of the PFC in the common 
marmoset revealed that orbitofrontal but not medial PFC lesions disrupted two
distinct measures of conditioned reinforcement: (1) acquisition of a new response
and (2) sensitivity to conditioned stimulus omission on a second-order schedule. 
In contrast, the orbitofrontal lesion did not affect sensitivity to primary
reinforcement as measured by responding on a progressive-ratio schedule and a
home cage consumption test. Together, these findings demonstrate the critical and
specific involvement of the orbitofrontal cortex but not the medial PFC in
conditioned reinforcement.


PMCID: PMC6741044
PMID: 14657178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

