

2876. Comp Med. 2003 Oct;53(5):539-44.

XY female marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Sanchez-Morgado JM(1), Haworth R, Morris TH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Science, GlaxoSmithkline, The Frythe, Welwyn, Herts, AL6
9AR, United Kingdom.

A marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with atypical external genitalia was
phenotypically and genetically characterized. Testosterone concentration
correlated with that of female marmosets. Externally, there was only one opening 
for the urethra. Internal genitalia were characteristic of those of female
marmosets, and consisted of ovaries, with follicles in various developmental
stages, and uterus. Microscopically, a normal vaginal structure was found. An
XX/XY chimerism and high steroid hormone values are normally found in common
marmosets. Genetic analysis was used for in vivo determination of sex. The
Y-linked zinc finger protein gene (ZFY) last intron, and sex-determining region Y
gene (SRY) exon were found by use of polymerase chain reaction and posterior
sequencing analyses, indicating that this marmoset had Y-linked chromosome
sequences. Normal SRY exons can, therefore, be associated with female internal
sexual organs in marmosets; this may be the first XY female described in
non-human primates.


PMID: 14655998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2877. J Nutr. 2003 Dec;133(12):4202-6.

Serum vitamin A esters are high in captive rhesus (Macaca mulatta) and marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) monkeys.

Penniston KL(1), Thayer JC, Tanumihardjo SA.

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

We showed previously that hepatic vitamin A concentrations of captive rhesus
monkeys (Macaca mulatta) are subtoxic to toxic, with livers exhibiting stellate
cell hypertrophy and hyperplasia. Although marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) livers
are also high in vitamin A, no stellate cell irregularities were observed. To
further characterize the effects of high dietary vitamin A from preformed
sources, stored serum samples were analyzed from monkeys used for biomedical
research and housed at the Wisconsin Primate Research Center. The monkeys had
been fed commercially available monkey diets, providing vitamin A (as retinyl
acetate) at levels exceeding NRC recommendations by a factor of four. The serum
from both rhesus and marmoset monkeys had total serum vitamin A (retinol, retinyl
esters and metabolites) within the expected range for both species, i.e., 1.44
+/- 0.34 and 1.41 +/- 0.72 micromol/L serum for rhesus and marmoset monkeys,
respectively. However, high serum retinyl ester concentrations as a percentage of
total serum vitamin A were present in both species, 12 +/- 5.1% (range, 5.5-23%) 
for rhesus and 27 +/- 14% (range, 10-57%) for the marmosets. Serum retinol
concentrations were normal, i.e., 1.21 +/- 0.28 (rhesus) and 0.92 +/- 0.43
micromol/L (marmoset), compared with published values.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/133.12.4202 
PMID: 14652372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

