

2877. J Nutr. 2003 Dec;133(12):4202-6.

Serum vitamin A esters are high in captive rhesus (Macaca mulatta) and marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) monkeys.

Penniston KL(1), Thayer JC, Tanumihardjo SA.

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

We showed previously that hepatic vitamin A concentrations of captive rhesus
monkeys (Macaca mulatta) are subtoxic to toxic, with livers exhibiting stellate
cell hypertrophy and hyperplasia. Although marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) livers
are also high in vitamin A, no stellate cell irregularities were observed. To
further characterize the effects of high dietary vitamin A from preformed
sources, stored serum samples were analyzed from monkeys used for biomedical
research and housed at the Wisconsin Primate Research Center. The monkeys had
been fed commercially available monkey diets, providing vitamin A (as retinyl
acetate) at levels exceeding NRC recommendations by a factor of four. The serum
from both rhesus and marmoset monkeys had total serum vitamin A (retinol, retinyl
esters and metabolites) within the expected range for both species, i.e., 1.44
+/- 0.34 and 1.41 +/- 0.72 micromol/L serum for rhesus and marmoset monkeys,
respectively. However, high serum retinyl ester concentrations as a percentage of
total serum vitamin A were present in both species, 12 +/- 5.1% (range, 5.5-23%) 
for rhesus and 27 +/- 14% (range, 10-57%) for the marmosets. Serum retinol
concentrations were normal, i.e., 1.21 +/- 0.28 (rhesus) and 0.92 +/- 0.43
micromol/L (marmoset), compared with published values.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/133.12.4202 
PMID: 14652372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2878. J Neuroimmunol. 2003 Dec;145(1-2):18-26.

Ultrastructural evidence of brain mast cell activation without degranulation in
monkey experimental allergic encephalomyelitis.

Letourneau R(1), Rozniecki JJ, Dimitriadou V, Theoharides TC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Tufts University School of Medicine, 136 Harrison 
Avenue, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an animal model for the human
demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS). Increased permeability of the
blood-brain barrier (BBB) precedes the development of clinical or pathologic
findings in MS and may be induced by perivascular brain mast cells secreting
vasoactive and proinflammatory molecules. Brain mast cells were investigated
ultrastructurally in acute EAE of the non-human primate common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus, which develops a mild neurologic relapsing-remitting course. 
Control diencephalic samples contained perivascular mast cells with mostly intact
electron dense granules. In contrast, EAE samples had marked demyelination and
mast cells with numerous altered secretory granules; their electron dense content
varied in amount and texture with a "honeycomb" or "target" appearance, but
without degranulation. These changes were evident even before the development of 
any clinical symptoms and suggest that brain mast cells may be involved in EAE,
and possibly MS, through a unique process that may involve selective secretion of
molecules able to disrupt the BBB.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2003.09.004 
PMID: 14644027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

