

2878. J Neuroimmunol. 2003 Dec;145(1-2):18-26.

Ultrastructural evidence of brain mast cell activation without degranulation in
monkey experimental allergic encephalomyelitis.

Letourneau R(1), Rozniecki JJ, Dimitriadou V, Theoharides TC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Tufts University School of Medicine, 136 Harrison 
Avenue, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an animal model for the human
demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS). Increased permeability of the
blood-brain barrier (BBB) precedes the development of clinical or pathologic
findings in MS and may be induced by perivascular brain mast cells secreting
vasoactive and proinflammatory molecules. Brain mast cells were investigated
ultrastructurally in acute EAE of the non-human primate common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus, which develops a mild neurologic relapsing-remitting course. 
Control diencephalic samples contained perivascular mast cells with mostly intact
electron dense granules. In contrast, EAE samples had marked demyelination and
mast cells with numerous altered secretory granules; their electron dense content
varied in amount and texture with a "honeycomb" or "target" appearance, but
without degranulation. These changes were evident even before the development of 
any clinical symptoms and suggest that brain mast cells may be involved in EAE,
and possibly MS, through a unique process that may involve selective secretion of
molecules able to disrupt the BBB.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2003.09.004 
PMID: 14644027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2879. Brain Res. 2003 Dec 12;993(1-2):54-8.

Pharmacokinetics of L-dopa in plasma and extracellular fluid of striatum in
common marmosets.

Zhang J(1), Qu FR, Nakatsuka A, Nomura T, Nagai M, Nomoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, School of Medicine,
Ehime University, Shigenobu, Ehime 791-0295, Japan.

L-3, 4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) has been widely used for the treatment of 
Parkinson's disease (PD), but its pharmacokinetics in the striatum have hardly
been investigated, especially in primates. In this study, we examined the
concentration of L-dopa in plasma and in the extracellular fluid (ECF) of the
striatum in common marmosets using microdialysis and high-performance liquid
chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection. With a clinically
therapeutic dosage of L-dopa/benserazide (20/5 mg/kg, p.o.), the t(max) of L-dopa
was 30 min in plasma and 60-90 min in ECF of striatum. Mean C(max) was 20.3
microM in plasma and 442.9 nM in ECF of striatum, which is about 2.2% of that in 
plasma. The L-dopa concentration in ECF is much lower than those previously
applied during in vivo studies for L-dopa toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2003.08.065 
PMID: 14642830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

