

2879. Brain Res. 2003 Dec 12;993(1-2):54-8.

Pharmacokinetics of L-dopa in plasma and extracellular fluid of striatum in
common marmosets.

Zhang J(1), Qu FR, Nakatsuka A, Nomura T, Nagai M, Nomoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, School of Medicine,
Ehime University, Shigenobu, Ehime 791-0295, Japan.

L-3, 4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) has been widely used for the treatment of 
Parkinson's disease (PD), but its pharmacokinetics in the striatum have hardly
been investigated, especially in primates. In this study, we examined the
concentration of L-dopa in plasma and in the extracellular fluid (ECF) of the
striatum in common marmosets using microdialysis and high-performance liquid
chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection. With a clinically
therapeutic dosage of L-dopa/benserazide (20/5 mg/kg, p.o.), the t(max) of L-dopa
was 30 min in plasma and 60-90 min in ECF of striatum. Mean C(max) was 20.3
microM in plasma and 442.9 nM in ECF of striatum, which is about 2.2% of that in 
plasma. The L-dopa concentration in ECF is much lower than those previously
applied during in vivo studies for L-dopa toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2003.08.065 
PMID: 14642830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2880. Neuroimage. 2003 Nov;20(3):1857-64.

Optical imaging of the retinotopic organization of V1 in the common marmoset.

Schiessl I(1), McLoughlin N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Neuroscience, UMIST, PO Box 88, Manchester M60
1QD, UK.

We examined the retinotopic mapping of the visual world in the primary visual
cortex of the marmoset monkey using differential optical imaging. Two sets of
complementary stripe-like locations were visually stimulated in turn. Their
difference depicts the cortical representations of continuous bands of visual
space. By rotating the sets of stripe-like locations it is possible to map
different spatial axes. Analogous to the macaque we found that the V1/V2 border
represented the vertical meridian, while horizontal, 45-, and 135-degree angled
stripes of space were also represented in a continuous manner. We developed a new
automatic method of calculating local measures of cortical magnification from our
optical retinotopic maps. Using this method we found no evidence of any local
anisotropies in cortical representation. Overall our results indicate that space 
is mapped isotropically in the primary visual cortex of the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2003.07.023 
PMID: 14642495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

