

2880. Neuroimage. 2003 Nov;20(3):1857-64.

Optical imaging of the retinotopic organization of V1 in the common marmoset.

Schiessl I(1), McLoughlin N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Neuroscience, UMIST, PO Box 88, Manchester M60
1QD, UK.

We examined the retinotopic mapping of the visual world in the primary visual
cortex of the marmoset monkey using differential optical imaging. Two sets of
complementary stripe-like locations were visually stimulated in turn. Their
difference depicts the cortical representations of continuous bands of visual
space. By rotating the sets of stripe-like locations it is possible to map
different spatial axes. Analogous to the macaque we found that the V1/V2 border
represented the vertical meridian, while horizontal, 45-, and 135-degree angled
stripes of space were also represented in a continuous manner. We developed a new
automatic method of calculating local measures of cortical magnification from our
optical retinotopic maps. Using this method we found no evidence of any local
anisotropies in cortical representation. Overall our results indicate that space 
is mapped isotropically in the primary visual cortex of the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2003.07.023 
PMID: 14642495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2881. Mov Disord. 2003 Nov;18(11):1301-5.

Novel antiepileptic drug levetiracetam decreases dyskinesia elicited by L-dopa
and ropinirole in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Hill MP(1), Bezard E, McGuire SG, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM, Michel A, Grim√©e R,
Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience Ltd, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Long-term dopamine replacement therapy of Parkinson's disease leads to the
occurrence of dyskinesias. Altered firing patterns of neurons of the internal
globus pallidus, involving a pathological synchronization/desynchronization
process, may contribute significantly to the genesis of dyskinesia.
Levetiracetam, an antiepileptic drug that counteracts neuronal
(hyper)synchronization in animal models of epilepsy, was assessed in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease, after coadministration with 
(1) levodopa (L-dopa) or (2) ropinirole/L-dopa combination. Oral administration
of levetiracetam (13-60 mg/kg) in combination with either L-dopa (12 mg/kg) alone
or L-dopa (8 mg/kg)/ropinirole (1.25 mg/kg) treatments was associated with
significantly less dyskinesia, in comparison to L-dopa monotherapy during the
first hour after administration. Thus, new nondopaminergic treatment strategies
targeting normalization of abnormal firing patterns in basal ganglia structures
may prove useful as an adjunct to reduce dyskinesia induced by dopamine
replacement therapy without affecting its antiparkinsonian action.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10542 
PMID: 14639671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

