

2881. Mov Disord. 2003 Nov;18(11):1301-5.

Novel antiepileptic drug levetiracetam decreases dyskinesia elicited by L-dopa
and ropinirole in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Hill MP(1), Bezard E, McGuire SG, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM, Michel A, Grim√©e R,
Klitgaard H.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience Ltd, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Long-term dopamine replacement therapy of Parkinson's disease leads to the
occurrence of dyskinesias. Altered firing patterns of neurons of the internal
globus pallidus, involving a pathological synchronization/desynchronization
process, may contribute significantly to the genesis of dyskinesia.
Levetiracetam, an antiepileptic drug that counteracts neuronal
(hyper)synchronization in animal models of epilepsy, was assessed in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease, after coadministration with 
(1) levodopa (L-dopa) or (2) ropinirole/L-dopa combination. Oral administration
of levetiracetam (13-60 mg/kg) in combination with either L-dopa (12 mg/kg) alone
or L-dopa (8 mg/kg)/ropinirole (1.25 mg/kg) treatments was associated with
significantly less dyskinesia, in comparison to L-dopa monotherapy during the
first hour after administration. Thus, new nondopaminergic treatment strategies
targeting normalization of abnormal firing patterns in basal ganglia structures
may prove useful as an adjunct to reduce dyskinesia induced by dopamine
replacement therapy without affecting its antiparkinsonian action.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10542 
PMID: 14639671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2882. Exp Neurol. 2003 Nov;184(1):536-48.

Recombinant adeno-associated viral vector (rAAV) delivery of GDNF provides
protection against 6-OHDA lesion in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Eslamboli A(1), Cummings RM, Ridley RM, Baker HF, Muzyczka N, Burger C, Mandel
RJ, Kirik D, Annett LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, University of
Cambridge, CB2 3EB, Cambridge, UK. ae228@hermes.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Exp Neurol. 2004 Jan;185(1):1-6.

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has shown potential as a
treatment for Parkinson's disease. Recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors
expressing the GDNF protein (rAAV-GDNF) have been used in rodent models of
Parkinson's disease to promote functional regeneration after 6-OHDA lesions of
the nigrostriatal system. The goal of the present study was to assess the
anatomical and functional efficacy of rAAV-GDNF in the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus). rAAV-GDNF was injected into the striatum and substantia
nigra 4 weeks prior to a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of the nigrostriatal bundle.
Forty percent of the dopamine cells in the lesioned substantia nigra of the
rAAV-GDNF-treated monkeys survived, compared with 21% in the untreated monkeys.
Fine dopaminergic fibres were observed microscopically in the injected striatum
of some rAAV-GDNF-treated monkeys, suggesting that rAAV-GDNF treatment may have
prevented, at least in part, the loss of dopaminergic innervation of the
striatum. Protection of dopamine cells and striatal fibre innervation was
associated with amelioration of the lesion-induced behavioural deficits.
rAAV-GDNF-treated monkeys showed partial or complete protection not only in the
amphetamine and apomorphine rotation but also in head position and the
parkinsonian disability rating scale. Therefore, our study provides evidence for 
the behavioural and anatomical efficacy of GDNF delivered via an rAAV vector as a
possible treatment for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2003.08.007 
PMID: 14637123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

