

2884. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2003;6(3):221-33.

Effects of training on stress-related behavior of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) in relation to coping with routine husbandry procedures.

Bassett L(1), Buchanan-Smith HM, McKinley J, Smith TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Stirling, Scotland.
h.m.buchanan-smith@stir.ac.uk

Comment on
    J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2003;6(3):209-20.

Using positive reinforcement, J. McKinley trained 12 common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) to provide urine samples on request. The study then exposed the
marmosets to mildly stressful, routine husbandry procedures (i.e., capture and
weighing). The nonhuman animals spent less time inactive poststressor as opposed 
to prestressor. L. Bassett collected matched behavioral data from 12 nontrained
marmosets who were less accustomed to human interaction. These animals spent
significantly more time self-scratching and locomoting as well as less time
inactive, poststressor. Collapsed data from the 2 populations showed increased
scent marking, poststressor. These results suggest that locomotion,
self-scratching, and scent marking are useful, noninvasive behavioral measures of
stress and, thus, reduced welfare in the common marmoset. Overall, nontrained
animals showed more self-scratching than did their trained counterparts. It was
not possible to collect urine from nontrained marmosets. In response to the
stressor, however, trained animals showed no significant change in excreted
urinary cortisol. These results suggest that training marmosets may allow them to
cope better with routine laboratory procedures.

DOI: 10.1207/S15327604JAWS0603_07 
PMID: 14612270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2885. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2003;6(3):209-20.

Training common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to cooperate during routine
laboratory procedures: ease of training and time investment.

McKinley J(1), Buchanan-Smith HM, Bassett L, Morris K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Stirling, Scotland.
h.m.buchanan-smith@stir.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2003;6(3):221-33.

The first author trained 12 laboratory-housed common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) in pairs to assess the practicality of positive reinforcement training
as a technique in the management of these nonhuman animals. Behaviors taught were
(a) target training to allow in homecage weighing and (b) providing urine
samples. Between 2 to 13, 10-minute training sessions established desired
behaviors. Training aggressive animals only after they had been fed eliminated
aggression during training. Trained animals proved extremely reliable, and data
collection using trained animals was considerably faster than collection using
current laboratory techniques. The results suggest that positive reinforcement
training is a practical option in the management of laboratory-housed marmosets.

DOI: 10.1207/S15327604JAWS0603_06 
PMID: 14612269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

