

2885. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2003;6(3):209-20.

Training common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to cooperate during routine
laboratory procedures: ease of training and time investment.

McKinley J(1), Buchanan-Smith HM, Bassett L, Morris K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Stirling, Scotland.
h.m.buchanan-smith@stir.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2003;6(3):221-33.

The first author trained 12 laboratory-housed common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) in pairs to assess the practicality of positive reinforcement training
as a technique in the management of these nonhuman animals. Behaviors taught were
(a) target training to allow in homecage weighing and (b) providing urine
samples. Between 2 to 13, 10-minute training sessions established desired
behaviors. Training aggressive animals only after they had been fed eliminated
aggression during training. Trained animals proved extremely reliable, and data
collection using trained animals was considerably faster than collection using
current laboratory techniques. The results suggest that positive reinforcement
training is a practical option in the management of laboratory-housed marmosets.

DOI: 10.1207/S15327604JAWS0603_06 
PMID: 14612269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2886. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2003;6(3):199-207.

Training nonhuman primates to cooperate with scientific procedures in applied
biomedical research.

Scott L(1), Pearce P, Fairhall S, Muggleton N, Smith J.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Dstl Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, England.
lascott@dstl.gov.uk

This report provides a brief overview of aspects of training nonhuman primates
who have been, and continue to be, used in this laboratory. The research context 
involves applied behavioral studies in which animals are trained to perform
complex operant behavioral sequences, often in their homecage environment. In
such studies, animals have freedom to choose whether to engage in appetitively
reinforced behavioral tests that employ neither food deprivation nor fluid
management. This background of operant conditioning has provided an insight to,
and a context for, animal training both as an adjunct to general laboratory
management and as a way to expedite scientific procedures. Thus, training has
potential implications for both well-being and scientific quality, although it
must be considered an adjunct to the provision of socialization with conspecifics
in high quality diverse housing systems and not as an alternative to such
provision. The importance of discussion and consideration of alternative
procedures cannot be overemphasized.

DOI: 10.1207/S15327604JAWS0603_05 
PMID: 14612268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

