

2889. Vis Neurosci. 2003 May-Jun;20(3):221-30.

Gain control from beyond the classical receptive field in primate primary visual 
cortex.

Webb BS(1), Tinsley CJ, Barraclough NE, Parker A, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham
NG7 2RD, UK. bsw@psychology.nottingham.ac.uk

Gain control is a salient feature of information processing throughout the visual
system. Heeger (1991, 1992) described a mechanism that could underpin gain
control in primary visual cortex (V1). According to this model, a neuron's
response is normalized by dividing its output by the sum of a population of
neurons, which are selective for orientations covering a broad range. Gain
control in this scheme is manifested as a change in the semisaturation constant
(contrast gain) of a V1 neuron. Here we examine how flanking and annular gratings
of the same or orthogonal orientation to that preferred by a neuron presented
beyond the receptive field modulate gain in V1 neurons in anesthetized marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus). To characterize how gain was modulated by surround stimuli,
the Michaelis-Menten equation was fitted to response versus contrast functions
obtained under each stimulus condition. The modulation of gain by surround
stimuli was modelled best as a divisive reduction in response gain. Response gain
varied with the orientation of surround stimuli, but was reduced most when the
orientation of a large annular grating beyond the classical receptive field
matched the preferred orientation of neurons. The strength of surround
suppression did not vary significantly with retinal eccentricity or laminar
distribution. In the marmoset, as in macaques (Angelucci et al., 2002a,b), gain
control over the sort of distances reported here (up to 10 deg) may be mediated
by feedback from extrastriate areas.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523803203011 
PMID: 14570244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2890. Exp Neurol. 2003 Oct;183(2):418-29.

Sensorimotor deficits in a unilateral intrastriatal 6-OHDA partial lesion model
of Parkinson's disease in marmoset monkeys.

Eslamboli A(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM, Annett LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Comment in
    Exp Neurol. 2003 Oct;183(2):258-62.

Animal studies investigating the efficacy of neurotrophic factors as treatments
for Parkinson's disease (PD) ideally require partial dopamine (DA) lesion models.
The intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model may be suitable for
this purpose. Although this model has been well characterized in rodents, it has 
not previously been used in monkeys. The goal of the present study was to
characterize the behavioral effects of unilateral injections of 6-OHDA in the
basal ganglia of common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Cell counts from
tyrosine hydroxylase immunochemistry 5 months postlesion revealed DA cell loss in
the substantia nigra on the lesioned side to approximately 46% of relative to the
unlesioned side. 6-OHDA lesioned monkeys showed a variety of behavioral deficits.
Apomorphine induced rotation and simple sensorimotor measures (head position bias
and PD disability rating score) were most affected by the lesion. The largest
deficits were seen at 1 or 2 weeks postsurgery but had recovered by week 10.
6-OHDA lesioned monkeys took longer to complete a more complex sensorimotor
staircase task. At 3.5 months postlesion, 6-OHDA monkeys also showed deficits on 
an object retrieval task designed to measure sensorimotor planning and skilled
hand use. alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine, a tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor, reinstated
those deficits which had undergone recovery in the lesioned animals and also
exacerbated the deficits on the staircase task. This model has potential in
assessing treatments for PD aimed at curtailing disease progression such as
continuous delivery of neurotrophic factors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4886(03)00139-0 
PMID: 14552882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

