

2890. Exp Neurol. 2003 Oct;183(2):418-29.

Sensorimotor deficits in a unilateral intrastriatal 6-OHDA partial lesion model
of Parkinson's disease in marmoset monkeys.

Eslamboli A(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM, Annett LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Comment in
    Exp Neurol. 2003 Oct;183(2):258-62.

Animal studies investigating the efficacy of neurotrophic factors as treatments
for Parkinson's disease (PD) ideally require partial dopamine (DA) lesion models.
The intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model may be suitable for
this purpose. Although this model has been well characterized in rodents, it has 
not previously been used in monkeys. The goal of the present study was to
characterize the behavioral effects of unilateral injections of 6-OHDA in the
basal ganglia of common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Cell counts from
tyrosine hydroxylase immunochemistry 5 months postlesion revealed DA cell loss in
the substantia nigra on the lesioned side to approximately 46% of relative to the
unlesioned side. 6-OHDA lesioned monkeys showed a variety of behavioral deficits.
Apomorphine induced rotation and simple sensorimotor measures (head position bias
and PD disability rating score) were most affected by the lesion. The largest
deficits were seen at 1 or 2 weeks postsurgery but had recovered by week 10.
6-OHDA lesioned monkeys took longer to complete a more complex sensorimotor
staircase task. At 3.5 months postlesion, 6-OHDA monkeys also showed deficits on 
an object retrieval task designed to measure sensorimotor planning and skilled
hand use. alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine, a tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor, reinstated
those deficits which had undergone recovery in the lesioned animals and also
exacerbated the deficits on the staircase task. This model has potential in
assessing treatments for PD aimed at curtailing disease progression such as
continuous delivery of neurotrophic factors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4886(03)00139-0 
PMID: 14552882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2891. J Neurosci. 2003 Oct 8;23(27):9107-15.

3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy) inhibits dyskinesia expression and
normalizes motor activity in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated
primates.

Iravani MM(1), Jackson MJ, Kuoppam√§ki M, Smith LA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's, and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, United Kingdom.

Ecstasy [3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)] was shown to prolong the
action of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) while suppressing dyskinesia in a
single patient with Parkinson's disease (PD). The clinical basis of this effect
of MDMA is unknown but may relate to its actions on either dopaminergic or
serotoninergic systems in brain. In normal, drug-naive common marmosets, MDMA
administration suppressed motor activity and exploratory behavior. In
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated, L-DOPA-primed common
marmosets, MDMA transiently relieved motor disability but over a period of 60 min
worsened motor symptoms. When given in conjunction with L-DOPA, however, MDMA
markedly decreased dyskinesia by reducing chorea and to a lesser extent dystonia 
and decreased locomotor activity to the level observed in normal animals. MDMA
similarly alleviated dyskinesia induced by the selective dopamine D2/3 agonist
pramipexole. The actions of MDMA appeared to be mediated through 5-HT mechanisms 
because its effects were fully blocked by the selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitor fluvoxamine. Furthermore, the effect of MDMA on L-DOPA-induced motor
activity and dyskinesia was partially inhibited by 5-HT1a/b antagonists. The
ability of MDMA to inhibit dyskinesia results from its broad spectrum of action
on 5-HT systems. Serotoninergic receptors appear to play an important modulatory 
role in l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, and this study may provide a framework for the
use of serotoninergic agents in the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.


PMCID: PMC6740822
PMID: 14534244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

