

2891. J Neurosci. 2003 Oct 8;23(27):9107-15.

3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy) inhibits dyskinesia expression and
normalizes motor activity in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated
primates.

Iravani MM(1), Jackson MJ, Kuoppam√§ki M, Smith LA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's, and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, United Kingdom.

Ecstasy [3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)] was shown to prolong the
action of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) while suppressing dyskinesia in a
single patient with Parkinson's disease (PD). The clinical basis of this effect
of MDMA is unknown but may relate to its actions on either dopaminergic or
serotoninergic systems in brain. In normal, drug-naive common marmosets, MDMA
administration suppressed motor activity and exploratory behavior. In
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated, L-DOPA-primed common
marmosets, MDMA transiently relieved motor disability but over a period of 60 min
worsened motor symptoms. When given in conjunction with L-DOPA, however, MDMA
markedly decreased dyskinesia by reducing chorea and to a lesser extent dystonia 
and decreased locomotor activity to the level observed in normal animals. MDMA
similarly alleviated dyskinesia induced by the selective dopamine D2/3 agonist
pramipexole. The actions of MDMA appeared to be mediated through 5-HT mechanisms 
because its effects were fully blocked by the selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitor fluvoxamine. Furthermore, the effect of MDMA on L-DOPA-induced motor
activity and dyskinesia was partially inhibited by 5-HT1a/b antagonists. The
ability of MDMA to inhibit dyskinesia results from its broad spectrum of action
on 5-HT systems. Serotoninergic receptors appear to play an important modulatory 
role in l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, and this study may provide a framework for the
use of serotoninergic agents in the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.


PMCID: PMC6740822
PMID: 14534244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2892. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):383-92.

Marmoset models commonly used in biomedical research.

Mansfield K(1).

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, Massachusetts 01772, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small, nonendangered New World
primate that is native to Brazil and has been used extensively in biomedical
research. Historically the common marmoset has been used in neuroscience,
reproductive biology, infectious disease, and behavioral research. Recently, the 
species has been used increasingly in drug development and safety assessment.
Advantages relate to size, cost, husbandry, and biosafety issues as well as
unique physiologic differences that may be used in model development.
Availability and ease of breeding in captivity suggest that they may represent an
alternative species to more traditional nonhuman primates. The marmoset models
commonly used in biomedical research are presented, with emphasis on those that
may provide an alternative to traditional nonhuman primate species.


PMID: 14524414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

