

2892. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):383-92.

Marmoset models commonly used in biomedical research.

Mansfield K(1).

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, Massachusetts 01772, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small, nonendangered New World
primate that is native to Brazil and has been used extensively in biomedical
research. Historically the common marmoset has been used in neuroscience,
reproductive biology, infectious disease, and behavioral research. Recently, the 
species has been used increasingly in drug development and safety assessment.
Advantages relate to size, cost, husbandry, and biosafety issues as well as
unique physiologic differences that may be used in model development.
Availability and ease of breeding in captivity suggest that they may represent an
alternative species to more traditional nonhuman primates. The marmoset models
commonly used in biomedical research are presented, with emphasis on those that
may provide an alternative to traditional nonhuman primate species.


PMID: 14524414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2893. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):369-82.

Clinical care and diseases of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Ludlage E(1), Mansfield K.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, PO Box 9102,
Southborough, Massachusetts 01772-9012, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate that is
native to eastern Brazil and has been used in biomedical research since the early
1960s. Use of this species for research purposes continues to grow at a rapid
pace as they are a viable alternative to other nonhuman primate species. We
discuss clinical care, such as preventative medicine, anesthesia, and routine
clinical procedures. Important viral, bacterial, parasitic, and gastrointestinal 
tract diseases are discussed, with relevant details on cause, transmission,
pathologic changes, diagnosis, and treatment. Current problems affecting marmoset
health and research in the modern vivarium are emphasized.


PMID: 14524413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

