

2893. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):369-82.

Clinical care and diseases of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Ludlage E(1), Mansfield K.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, PO Box 9102,
Southborough, Massachusetts 01772-9012, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate that is
native to eastern Brazil and has been used in biomedical research since the early
1960s. Use of this species for research purposes continues to grow at a rapid
pace as they are a viable alternative to other nonhuman primate species. We
discuss clinical care, such as preventative medicine, anesthesia, and routine
clinical procedures. Important viral, bacterial, parasitic, and gastrointestinal 
tract diseases are discussed, with relevant details on cause, transmission,
pathologic changes, diagnosis, and treatment. Current problems affecting marmoset
health and research in the modern vivarium are emphasized.


PMID: 14524413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2894. Comp Med. 2003 Aug;53(4):364-8.

Reproduction in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Tardif SD(1), Smucny DA, Abbott DH, Mansfield K, Schultz-Darken N, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Post Office Box 760549, San
Antonio, Texas 78245-0549, USA.

Though sexual maturation may begin at around one year of age, first successful
reproduction of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is likely to be later,
and it is generally recommended that animals not be mated before 1.5 years of
age. The average gestation period is estimated to be 143 to 144 days. A
crown-rump length measurement taken by use of ultrasonography during the linear, 
rapid, prenatal growth phase (between approx. days 60 and 95) can be compared
against standard growth curves to estimate delivery date to within 3 to 4 days,
on average. Marmosets produce more young per delivery than does any other
anthropoid primate, and have more variation in litter size. Many long-established
colonies report that triplets are the most common litter size, and there is
documented association between higher maternal body weight and higher ovulation
numbers. Higher litter sizes generally do not generate higher numbers of viable
young. Marmosets are unusual among primates in having a postpartum ovulation that
typically results in conception and successful delivery; reported median
inter-birth intervals range from 154 to 162 days. However, pregnancy losses are
quite common; one study of a large breeding colony indicated 50 percent loss
between conception and term delivery. The average life span for breeding females 
is around six years; the range of reported average lifetime number of litters for
a breeding pair is 3.45 to 4.0. Our purpose is to provide an overview of
reproduction in the common marmoset, including basic reproductive life history,
lactation and weaning, social housing requirements, and common problems
encountered in the captive breeding of this species. A brief comparison between
marmoset and tamarin reproduction also will be provided.


PMID: 14524412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

