

2899. Neuroscience. 2003;121(2):307-14.

Dehydroepiandrosterone 7-hydroxylase CYP7B: predominant expression in primate
hippocampus and reduced expression in Alzheimer's disease.

Yau JL(1), Rasmuson S, Andrew R, Graham M, Noble J, Olsson T, Fuchs E, Lathe R,
Seckl JR.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Centre, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK.
joyce.yau@ed.ac.uk

Neurosteroids such as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), pregnenolone and
17beta-estradiol are synthesized by cytochrome P450s from endogenous cholesterol.
We previously reported a new cytochrome P450 enzyme, CYP7B, highly expressed in
rat and mouse brain that metabolizes DHEA and related steroids by hydroxylation
at the 7alpha position. Such 7-hydroxylation can enhance DHEA bioactivity in
vivo. Here we show that the reaction is conserved across mammalian species: in
addition to mouse and rat, DHEA hydroxylation activity was present in brain
extracts from sheep, marmoset and human. Northern blotting using a human CYP7B
complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) probe confirmed the presence of CYP7B 
mRNA in marmoset and human hippocampus; CYP7B mRNA was present in marmoset
cerebellum and brainstem, with lower levels in hypothalamus and cortex. In situ
hybridization to human brain revealed higher levels of CYP7B mRNA in the
hippocampus than in cerebellum, cortex, or other brain regions. We also measured 
CYP7B expression in Alzheimer's disease (AD). CYP7B mRNA was significantly
decreased (approximately 50% decline; P<0.05) in dentate neurons from AD subjects
compared with controls. A decline in CYP7B activity may contribute the loss of
effects of DHEA with ageing and perhaps to the pathophysiology of AD.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(03)00438-x 
PMID: 14521990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2900. Brain Res Bull. 2003 Oct 15;61(6):577-85.

Serial MRI, functional recovery, and long-term infarct maturation in a non-human 
primate model of stroke.

Marshall JW(1), Ridley RM, Baker HF, Hall LD, Carpenter TA, Wood NI.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

We have examined the effects of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion
(pMCAO) in marmoset monkeys over 5 months, using behavioural and magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) techniques. Three marmosets were trained on behavioural
tests before pMCAO. Shortly after surgery, these marmosets were scanned with
T2-weighted (T2W) and diffusion-weighted (DW) MRI. Three, 10 and 20 weeks after
surgery, these marmosets were re-tested on the behavioural tasks and had further 
MRI sessions to monitor lesion development. This was followed by histological
analysis. All these marmosets had a persistent contralesional motor deficit and a
spatial neglect which resolved over the 20 weeks of testing. Percentage infarct
volume assessed by MRI on the day of surgery and at 20 weeks matched the
percentage infarct volume measured histologically at 20 weeks. However, the
apparent infarct size at 3 weeks was considerably less than that measured by
histological analysis or that measured at the other MRI time points. Additional
histological analysis of the brains of two further marmosets removed 3 weeks
after pMCAO found considerable infiltration by lipid filled macrophages into the 
ischaemic zone which may have caused an MRI "fogging" effect leading to an
apparent reduction in infarct volume.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(03)00214-4 
PMID: 14519454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

