

290. Vet Res Commun. 2020 Nov;44(3-4):101-110. doi: 10.1007/s11259-020-09778-9. Epub
2020 Jul 10.

Infectivity, virulence, pathogenicity, host-pathogen interactions of SARS and
SARS-CoV-2 in experimental animals: a systematic review.

Sarkar J(1)(2), Guha R(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biochemistry, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow,
India.
(2)CSIR-Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, New Delhi, India.
(3)CSIR-Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, New Delhi, India.
rajdeep.guha@cdri.res.in.
(4)Laboratory Animals Facility , CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute , Lucknow, 
India. rajdeep.guha@cdri.res.in.

The outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 in mainland China with subsequent human to human
transmission worldwide had taken up the shape of a devastating pandemic. The
ability of the virus to infect multiple species other than humans has currently
been reported in experimental conditions. Non-human primates, felines, ferrets,
rodents and host of other animals could previously be infected in experimental
conditions with SARS-CoV and recently with SARS-CoV-2, both virus using
Angiotensin-converting-enzyme 2 receptor for cellular entry. The variations in
sequence homology of ACE2 receptor across species is identified as one of the
factors determining virulence and pathogenicity in animals. The infection in
experimental animals with SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2 on most occasions are
asymptomatic, however, the virus could multiply within the respiratory tract and 
extra-pulmonary organs in most of the species. Here, we discuss about the
pathogenicity, transmission, variations in angiotensin-converting-enzyme 2
receptor-binding across species and host pathogen interactions of SARS and
SARS-CoV-2 in laboratory animals used in research.

DOI: 10.1007/s11259-020-09778-9 
PMCID: PMC7348560
PMID: 32651761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Genes (Basel). 2020 Jun 30;11(7). pii: E729. doi: 10.3390/genes11070729.

Utility of Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Embryonic Stem Cells in Liver
Disease Modeling, Tissue Engineering and Drug Metabolism.

Aravalli RN(1), Steer CJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Science and
Engineering, University of Minnesota, 200 Union Street S.E., Minneapolis, MN
55455, USA.
(2)Departments of Medicine and Genetics, Cell Biology and Development, University
of Minnesota, 420 Delaware Street S.E, Minneapolis MN 55455, USA.

The incidence of liver disease is increasing significantly worldwide and, as a
result, there is a pressing need to develop new technologies and applications for
end-stage liver diseases. For many of them, orthotopic liver transplantation is
the only viable therapeutic option. Stem cells that are capable of
differentiating into all liver cell types and could closely mimic human liver
disease are extremely valuable for disease modeling, tissue regeneration and
repair, and for drug metabolism studies to develop novel therapeutic treatments. 
Despite the extensive research efforts, positive results from rodent models have 
not translated meaningfully into realistic preclinical models and therapies. The 
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus has emerged as a viable non-human primate
model to study various human diseases because of its distinct features and close 
physiologic, genetic and metabolic similarities to humans. C. jacchus embryonic
stem cells (cjESC) and recently generated cjESC-derived hepatocyte-like cells
(cjESC-HLCs) could fill the gaps in disease modeling, liver regeneration and
metabolic studies. They are extremely useful for cell therapy to regenerate and
repair damaged liver tissues in vivo as they could efficiently engraft into the
liver parenchyma. For in vitro studies, they would be advantageous for drug
design and metabolism in developing novel drugs and cell-based therapies.
Specifically, they express both phase I and II metabolic enzymes that share
similar substrate specificities, inhibition and induction characteristics, and
drug metabolism as their human counterparts. In addition, cjESCs and cjESC-HLCs
are advantageous for investigations on emerging research areas, including
blastocyst complementation to generate entire livers, and bioengineering of
discarded livers to regenerate whole livers for transplantation.

DOI: 10.3390/genes11070729 
PMCID: PMC7397002
PMID: 32630053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

