

2900. Brain Res Bull. 2003 Oct 15;61(6):577-85.

Serial MRI, functional recovery, and long-term infarct maturation in a non-human 
primate model of stroke.

Marshall JW(1), Ridley RM, Baker HF, Hall LD, Carpenter TA, Wood NI.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

We have examined the effects of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion
(pMCAO) in marmoset monkeys over 5 months, using behavioural and magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) techniques. Three marmosets were trained on behavioural
tests before pMCAO. Shortly after surgery, these marmosets were scanned with
T2-weighted (T2W) and diffusion-weighted (DW) MRI. Three, 10 and 20 weeks after
surgery, these marmosets were re-tested on the behavioural tasks and had further 
MRI sessions to monitor lesion development. This was followed by histological
analysis. All these marmosets had a persistent contralesional motor deficit and a
spatial neglect which resolved over the 20 weeks of testing. Percentage infarct
volume assessed by MRI on the day of surgery and at 20 weeks matched the
percentage infarct volume measured histologically at 20 weeks. However, the
apparent infarct size at 3 weeks was considerably less than that measured by
histological analysis or that measured at the other MRI time points. Additional
histological analysis of the brains of two further marmosets removed 3 weeks
after pMCAO found considerable infiltration by lipid filled macrophages into the 
ischaemic zone which may have caused an MRI "fogging" effect leading to an
apparent reduction in infarct volume.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(03)00214-4 
PMID: 14519454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2901. Vet Rec. 2003 Sep 13;153(11):332-3.

Ovarian teratoma in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Haworth R(1), Jones S, Sanchez-Morgado J, Pilling A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pathology Group, Safety Assessment, GlaxoSmithKline Research and
Development, Park Road, Ware, Hertfordshire SG12 0DP.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.153.11.332 
PMID: 14516118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

