

2901. Vet Rec. 2003 Sep 13;153(11):332-3.

Ovarian teratoma in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Haworth R(1), Jones S, Sanchez-Morgado J, Pilling A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pathology Group, Safety Assessment, GlaxoSmithKline Research and
Development, Park Road, Ware, Hertfordshire SG12 0DP.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.153.11.332 
PMID: 14516118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2902. J Comp Neurol. 2003 Nov 3;466(1):136-47.

Glutamate receptors at bipolar synapses in the inner plexiform layer of primate
retina: light microscopic analysis.

Gr√ºnert U(1), Lin B, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13 and Institute for Biomedical Research, The
University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. ugrunert@optometry.unimelb.edu.au

At least 10 different types of bipolar cells have been distinguished in the
primate retina. The axon terminals of these cells stratify in distinct strata in 
the inner plexiform layer and are involved in parallel pathways to distinct types
of ganglion cells. Ionotropic glutamate receptor (GluR) subunits also show a
stratified distribution in the inner plexiform layer. Here, we investigated
whether different types of bipolar cells are associated with different types of
ionotropic glutamate receptors in the inner retina of a New World primate, the
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Vertical cryostat sections through central
retina were double labeled with immunohistochemical markers for bipolar cell
types and with antibodies to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate
(AMPA) receptor subunits GluR1 to 4, kainate receptor subunits GluR6/7, and the
NR1C2' subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. The axon terminals of
bipolar cell types were reconstructed from confocal sections, and the colocalized
immunoreactive puncta were quantified. For all bipolar cell types, immunoreactive
puncta for the AMPA receptor subunits GluR2, 2/3, and 4 were colocalized at
highest densities, whereas GluR1-immunoreactive puncta were expressed at very low
densities. The kainate receptor subunits GluR6/7 were predominantly associated
with diffuse bipolar (DB6) and rod bipolar cells. The NMDA receptor subunit
NR1C2' was specifically colocalized with flat midget and DB3 axons. These
findings suggest that rod and cone bipolar cell types contribute to multiple but 
distinct glutamate receptor pathways in primate retina.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10862 
PMID: 14515245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

