

2902. J Comp Neurol. 2003 Nov 3;466(1):136-47.

Glutamate receptors at bipolar synapses in the inner plexiform layer of primate
retina: light microscopic analysis.

Gr√ºnert U(1), Lin B, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13 and Institute for Biomedical Research, The
University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. ugrunert@optometry.unimelb.edu.au

At least 10 different types of bipolar cells have been distinguished in the
primate retina. The axon terminals of these cells stratify in distinct strata in 
the inner plexiform layer and are involved in parallel pathways to distinct types
of ganglion cells. Ionotropic glutamate receptor (GluR) subunits also show a
stratified distribution in the inner plexiform layer. Here, we investigated
whether different types of bipolar cells are associated with different types of
ionotropic glutamate receptors in the inner retina of a New World primate, the
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Vertical cryostat sections through central
retina were double labeled with immunohistochemical markers for bipolar cell
types and with antibodies to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate
(AMPA) receptor subunits GluR1 to 4, kainate receptor subunits GluR6/7, and the
NR1C2' subunit of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. The axon terminals of
bipolar cell types were reconstructed from confocal sections, and the colocalized
immunoreactive puncta were quantified. For all bipolar cell types, immunoreactive
puncta for the AMPA receptor subunits GluR2, 2/3, and 4 were colocalized at
highest densities, whereas GluR1-immunoreactive puncta were expressed at very low
densities. The kainate receptor subunits GluR6/7 were predominantly associated
with diffuse bipolar (DB6) and rod bipolar cells. The NMDA receptor subunit
NR1C2' was specifically colocalized with flat midget and DB3 axons. These
findings suggest that rod and cone bipolar cell types contribute to multiple but 
distinct glutamate receptor pathways in primate retina.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10862 
PMID: 14515245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2903. Hum Reprod. 2003 Oct;18(10):2110-7.

Role of the neonatal period of pituitary-testicular activity in germ cell
proliferation and differentiation in the primate testis.

Sharpe RM(1), Fraser HM, Brougham MF, McKinnell C, Morris KD, Kelnar CJ, Wallace 
WH, Walker M.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, The
Chancellor's Building, University of Edinburgh, 49 Little France Crescent,
Edinburgh, EH16 4SB. r.sharpe@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The neonatal period of pituitary-testicular activity (NPTA) in human 
males has been hypothesized to play a role in germ cell proliferation and
differentiation and to be defective in cryptorchid testes. The present study was 
carried out to establish in the marmoset if suppression of the NPTA, by treatment
with a GnRH antagonist, results in impaired germ cell proliferation and/or
differentiation.
METHODS: Comparison of germ cell (GC) numbers and differentiation from gonocytes 
to pre-spermatogonia and spermatogonia, at birth (in controls) and at the end of 
the NPTA in marmoset co-twin males treated from birth to age 14 weeks with
vehicle or GnRH antagonist.
RESULTS: From birth to age 18-24 weeks, testis weight increased approximately
5-fold and GC number approximately 10-fold, including increased numbers of
gonocytes and pre-spermatogonia and the first appearance of spermatogonia.
Treatment with GnRH antagonist attenuated the increase in testis weight and GC
numbers, but the effect was only partial (24-30% reduction), and the relative
proportions of gonocytes, pre-spermatogonia and spermatogonia in the GnRH
antagonist-treated group were unchanged from control values.
CONCLUSIONS: The NPTA plays only a minor, if any, role in GC proliferation and
differentiation in the marmoset. The changes in GnRH antagonist-treated co-twins 
may reflect impaired GC survival due to withdrawal of gonadotrophin support for
Sertoli cells. These findings do not support a pivotal role for the NPTA in
neonatal GC development in primates.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deg413 
PMID: 14507830  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

