

2906. Vet Pathol. 2003 Sep;40(5):540-7.

Anemia, myopathy, and pansteatitis in vitamin E-deficient captive marmosets
(Callithrix spp.).

Juan-Sallés C(1), Prats N, Resendes A, Domingo M, Hilton D, Ruiz JM, Garner MM,
Valls X, Marco AJ.

Author information: 
(1)U.D. Histologia í Anatomia Patològica, Facultat de Veterinària (Universitat
Autònoma de Barcelona), E-08193 Bellaterra Barcelona, Spain.

Five young adult pet marmosets (Callithrix spp.) were presented with weight loss 
(5/5); fecal retention (3/5); diarrhea (2/5); impaired locomotion (3/5); anemia
(4/4); hypoproteinemia or hypoalbuminemia (3/4); elevations of creatine
phosphokinase, lactic dehydrogenase, and alanine aminotransferase (3/4); and
renal failure with hypercholesterolemia (2/4). All anemic marmosets had low serum
vitamin E levels. The anemia responded to vitamin E and selenium therapy in two
marmosets. One of the five marmosets died before presentation, and two others
died despite therapy. The two marmosets necropsied had degenerative myopathy,
pyogranulomatous pansteatitis, and increased erythrophagocytosis and
hemosiderosis. The striated muscle and adipose tissue of both marmosets were
negative for coxsackievirus ribonucleic acid by in situ hybridization. These
findings suggest that vitamin E deficiency may be involved in the development of 
anemia, myopathy, and steatitis in callitrichids; however, in some marmosets,
underlying diseases such as chronic colitis may have influenced the development
of anemia and impaired vitamin E status.

DOI: 10.1354/vp.40-5-540 
PMID: 12949411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2907. J Virol. 2003 Sep;77(18):9943-50.

Efficient isolation of wild strains of canine distemper virus in Vero cells
expressing canine SLAM (CD150) and their adaptability to marmoset B95a cells.

Seki F(1), Ono N, Yamaguchi R, Yanagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka
812-8582, Japan.

We have previously shown that canine signaling lymphocyte activation molecule
(SLAM; also known as CD150) acts as a cellular receptor for canine distemper
virus (CDV). In this study, we established Vero cells stably expressing canine
SLAM (Vero.DogSLAMtag cells). Viruses were isolated in Vero.DogSLAMtag cells one 
day after inoculation with spleen samples from five out of seven dogs with
distemper. By contrast, virus isolation with reportedly sensitive marmoset B95a
cells was only successful from three diseased animals at 7 to 10 days after
inoculation, and no virus was recovered from any dogs when Vero cells were used
for isolation. The CDV strain isolated in Vero.DogSLAMtag cells did not cause
cytopathic effects in B95a and human SLAM-expressing Vero cells, whereas the
strain isolated in B95a cells from the same dog did so in canine or human
SLAM-expressing Vero cells as well as B95a cells. There were two amino acid
differences in the hemagglutinin sequence between these strains. Cell fusion
analysis after expression of envelope proteins and vesicular stomatitis virus
pseudotype assay showed that their hemagglutinins were responsible for the
difference in cell tropism between them. Site-directed mutagenesis indicated that
glutamic acid to lysine substitution at position 530 of the hemagglutinin was
required for the adaptation to the usage of marmoset SLAM. Our results indicate
that Vero cells stably expressing canine SLAM are highly sensitive to CDV in
clinical specimens and that only a single amino acid substitution in the
hemagglutinin can allow the virus to adapt to marmoset SLAM.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.77.18.9943-9950.2003 
PMCID: PMC224612
PMID: 12941904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

