

2908. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Sep;122(1):28-37.

Evolutionary implications of the unusual walking mechanics of the common marmoset
(C. jacchus).

Schmitt D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. Daniel_Schmitt@baa.mc.duke.edu

Several features that appear to differentiate the walking gaits of most primates 
from those of most other mammals (the prevalence of diagonal-sequence footfalls, 
high degrees of humeral protraction, and low forelimb vs. hindlimb peak vertical 
forces) are believed to have evolved in response to requirements of locomotion on
thin arboreal supports by early primates that had developed clawless grasping
hands and feet. This putative relationship between anatomy, behavior, and ecology
is tested here by examining gait mechanics in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a primate that has sharp claws and reduced pedal grasping, and that
spends much of its time clinging on large trunks. Kinematic and kinetic data were
collected on three male Callithrix jacchus as they walked across a force platform
attached to the ground or to raised horizontal poles. The vast majority of all
walking gaits were lateral-sequence. For all steps, the humerus was retracted
(<90 degrees relative to a horizontal axis) or held in a neutral (90 degrees )
position at forelimb touchdown. Peak vertical forces on the forelimb were always 
higher than those on the hindlimb. These three features of the walking gaits of
C. jacchus separate it from any other primate studied (including other
callitrichids). The walking gaits of C. jacchus are mechanically more similar to 
those of small, nonprimate mammals. The results of this study support previous
models that suggest that the unusual suite of features that typify the walking
gaits of most primates are adaptations to the requirements of locomotion on thin 
arboreal supports. These data, along with data from other primates and
marsupials, suggest that primate postcranial and locomotor characteristics are
part of a basal adaptation for walking on thin branches.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10214 
PMID: 12923902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2909. Stroke. 2003 Sep;34(9):2228-33. Epub 2003 Aug 14.

Functional and histological evidence for the protective effect of NXY-059 in a
primate model of stroke when given 4 hours after occlusion.

Marshall JW(1), Cummings RM, Bowes LJ, Ridley RM, Green AR.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Comparative Cognition Team, Department of
Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK. jwbm2@cus.cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: NXY-059 has substantial protective effects when
administered immediately after the onset of ischemia in a primate model of
stroke. This study examined the efficacy of this drug when administered 4 hours
after onset, a more clinically relevant time point.
METHODS: Before surgery, marmosets were trained and tested on a number of
neurological tests, which assessed general neurological function, motor ability, 
and spatial awareness. Four hours after permanent middle cerebral artery
occlusion (pMCAO), marmosets received a bolus of saline (n=13) or NXY-059 (n=13),
and osmotic minipumps were implanted, providing 48-hour saline or drug (85
micromol/kg per hour) infusion. The monkeys were retested 3 and 10 weeks after
surgery. Finally, infarct size was evaluated with histological analysis.
RESULTS: The unbound plasma NXY-059 concentration was 200+/-9 micromol/L after
24-hour infusion, a concentration well tolerated in stroke patients. Drug
treatment ameliorated the long-term motor impairment produced by pMCAO; the
marmosets were better at using their contralesional, stroke-affected arm than
controls at both 3 and 10 weeks. Saline-treated animals had a debilitating
spatial neglect at 3 weeks with residual signs evident at 10 weeks. NXY-059
treatment substantially attenuated neglect at 3 weeks, with no deficit being seen
at 10 weeks. NXY-059 reduced the overall infarct size by 28% (saline, 324+/-46
mm3; NXY-059, 234+/-30 mm3) with protection to the cortex, white matter, and
subcortical structures.
CONCLUSIONS: NXY-059 is an effective neuroprotective agent when administered 4
hours after pMCAO in a primate species, attenuating both motor and spatial
neglect. The compound also substantially lessened the volume of cerebral damage.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000087790.79851.A8 
PMID: 12920263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

