

2909. Stroke. 2003 Sep;34(9):2228-33. Epub 2003 Aug 14.

Functional and histological evidence for the protective effect of NXY-059 in a
primate model of stroke when given 4 hours after occlusion.

Marshall JW(1), Cummings RM, Bowes LJ, Ridley RM, Green AR.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Comparative Cognition Team, Department of
Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK. jwbm2@cus.cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: NXY-059 has substantial protective effects when
administered immediately after the onset of ischemia in a primate model of
stroke. This study examined the efficacy of this drug when administered 4 hours
after onset, a more clinically relevant time point.
METHODS: Before surgery, marmosets were trained and tested on a number of
neurological tests, which assessed general neurological function, motor ability, 
and spatial awareness. Four hours after permanent middle cerebral artery
occlusion (pMCAO), marmosets received a bolus of saline (n=13) or NXY-059 (n=13),
and osmotic minipumps were implanted, providing 48-hour saline or drug (85
micromol/kg per hour) infusion. The monkeys were retested 3 and 10 weeks after
surgery. Finally, infarct size was evaluated with histological analysis.
RESULTS: The unbound plasma NXY-059 concentration was 200+/-9 micromol/L after
24-hour infusion, a concentration well tolerated in stroke patients. Drug
treatment ameliorated the long-term motor impairment produced by pMCAO; the
marmosets were better at using their contralesional, stroke-affected arm than
controls at both 3 and 10 weeks. Saline-treated animals had a debilitating
spatial neglect at 3 weeks with residual signs evident at 10 weeks. NXY-059
treatment substantially attenuated neglect at 3 weeks, with no deficit being seen
at 10 weeks. NXY-059 reduced the overall infarct size by 28% (saline, 324+/-46
mm3; NXY-059, 234+/-30 mm3) with protection to the cortex, white matter, and
subcortical structures.
CONCLUSIONS: NXY-059 is an effective neuroprotective agent when administered 4
hours after pMCAO in a primate species, attenuating both motor and spatial
neglect. The compound also substantially lessened the volume of cerebral damage.

DOI: 10.1161/01.STR.0000087790.79851.A8 
PMID: 12920263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2910. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2003 Aug 15;191(1):48-62.

Toxicokinetics of the nerve agent (+/-)-VX in anesthetized and atropinized
hairless guinea pigs and marmosets after intravenous and percutaneous
administration.

van der Schans MJ(1), Lander BJ, van der Wiel H, Langenberg JP, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Division Chemical and Biological Protection, TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, PO 
Box 45, 2280 AA, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. schansm@pml.tno.nl

In continuation of our investigations on the toxicokinetics of the volatile nerve
agents C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman and (+/-)-sarin, we now report on the toxicokinetics of
the rather nonvolatile agent (+/-)-VX. A validated method was developed to
determine blood levels of (+/-)-VX by means of achiral gas chromatography at
blood levels > or =10 pg/ml. The ratio of the two enantiomers of VX in blood
could be measured at levels > or =1 ng/ml by using chiral HPLC in combination
with off-line gas chromatographic analysis. In order to obtain basic information 
on the toxicokinetics of (+/-)-VX, i.e., under conditions of 100%
bioavailability, the blood levels of this agent were measured in hairless guinea 
pigs at iv doses corresponding with 1 and 2 LD50. The derived AUCs indicate a
reasonable linearity of the toxicokinetics with dose. Also, the toxicokinetics in
marmoset primates was studied at an absolute iv dose corresponding with 1 LD50 in
the hairless guinea pig which led to approximately the same levels of (+/-)-VX in
blood as observed at 2 LD50 in the hairless guinea pig. Finally, the
toxicokinetics of (+/-)-VX were measured in hairless guinea pigs via the most
relevant porte d' entr√©e for this agent, which is the percutaneous route at a
dose corresponding with 1 LD50 (pc). Large variations were observed between
individual animals in the rate of penetration of (+/-)-VX and in concomitant
progression of AChE inhibition in blood of these animals. Blood levels of
(+/-)-VX increased gradually over a 6-h period of time. After a 7-h penetration
period, the total AUC corresponded with 2.5% bioavailability relative to iv
administration. In contrast with the G-agents C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman and (+/-)-sarin,
stereospecificity in the sequestration of the two enantiomers of (+/-)-VX is not 
a prominent phenomenon. It appears that (+/-)-VX is substantially more persistent
in vivo than the two G-agents. This persistence may undermine the efficacy of
pretreatment with carbamates of percutaneous intoxication in particular due to
gradual replacement of carbamate on AChE by (+/-)-VX, whereas classical treatment
of intoxication with oximes is hampered by the short persistence of oximes
relative to the agent.

DOI: 10.1016/s0041-008x(03)00216-3 
PMID: 12915103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

