

291. Genes (Basel). 2020 Jun 30;11(7). pii: E729. doi: 10.3390/genes11070729.

Utility of Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Embryonic Stem Cells in Liver
Disease Modeling, Tissue Engineering and Drug Metabolism.

Aravalli RN(1), Steer CJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, College of Science and
Engineering, University of Minnesota, 200 Union Street S.E., Minneapolis, MN
55455, USA.
(2)Departments of Medicine and Genetics, Cell Biology and Development, University
of Minnesota, 420 Delaware Street S.E, Minneapolis MN 55455, USA.

The incidence of liver disease is increasing significantly worldwide and, as a
result, there is a pressing need to develop new technologies and applications for
end-stage liver diseases. For many of them, orthotopic liver transplantation is
the only viable therapeutic option. Stem cells that are capable of
differentiating into all liver cell types and could closely mimic human liver
disease are extremely valuable for disease modeling, tissue regeneration and
repair, and for drug metabolism studies to develop novel therapeutic treatments. 
Despite the extensive research efforts, positive results from rodent models have 
not translated meaningfully into realistic preclinical models and therapies. The 
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus has emerged as a viable non-human primate
model to study various human diseases because of its distinct features and close 
physiologic, genetic and metabolic similarities to humans. C. jacchus embryonic
stem cells (cjESC) and recently generated cjESC-derived hepatocyte-like cells
(cjESC-HLCs) could fill the gaps in disease modeling, liver regeneration and
metabolic studies. They are extremely useful for cell therapy to regenerate and
repair damaged liver tissues in vivo as they could efficiently engraft into the
liver parenchyma. For in vitro studies, they would be advantageous for drug
design and metabolism in developing novel drugs and cell-based therapies.
Specifically, they express both phase I and II metabolic enzymes that share
similar substrate specificities, inhibition and induction characteristics, and
drug metabolism as their human counterparts. In addition, cjESCs and cjESC-HLCs
are advantageous for investigations on emerging research areas, including
blastocyst complementation to generate entire livers, and bioengineering of
discarded livers to regenerate whole livers for transplantation.

DOI: 10.3390/genes11070729 
PMCID: PMC7397002
PMID: 32630053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2021 Oct-Dec;24(4):392-399. doi:
10.1080/10888705.2020.1785883. Epub 2020 Jul 5.

Reflections on Potential Risk Factors of Callitrichidae Run Over in an Urban
Area: A Case Report of Marmoset Deaths.

do Vale CA(1), Sant'Anna AC(2), Júnior JGC(3), Prezoto F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de ecologia comportamental e bioacústica, Universidade Federal de 
Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, Brasil.
(2)Departamento de Zoonoses da Prefeitura Municipal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de
Fora, Brasil.
(3)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, 
Brasil.

Interest in the well being of wild animals in their natural habitats is still
lower than that of domesticated animals and captive wild animals. Urban
development is one of the events that has the greatest impact on fauna, as it
affects the survival and well being of wild species in many ways. This study
aimed to record death by being run over of two Callithrix penicillata
(black-tufted) marmosets in a fragmented environment by urbanization and to
discuss how anthropic intervention modifies species behavior and influences their
well being, and to suggest measures which can reduce the occurrence of incidents,
thereby contributing to maintaining the fauna and their well being.

DOI: 10.1080/10888705.2020.1785883 
PMID: 32627594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

