

2911. Brain Res. 2003 Sep 5;983(1-2):230-2.

Purkinje-like cells in the cochlear nucleus of the Common Tree Shrew (Tupaia
glis) identified by calbindin immunohistochemistry.

Spatz WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Morphologische Hirnforschung, HNO-Klinik, und AG Hirnforschung, Anatomisches
Institut, Universit√§t Freiburg, Hansastrasse 9, 79104, Freiburg, Germany.
spatz@hnol.ukl.uni-freiburg.de

The dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) of Tree Shrews (Tupaia glis; n=2) was examined 
by calbindin (CB) immunohistochemistry for the presence of Purkinje-like cells
(PLCs), detected previously in only four different mammals. We found up to eight 
CB-immunoreactive PLCs in the left and right DCN, and a few axons, likely of PLC 
origin, that appeared to leave the DCN. These findings suggest that PLCs may have
a wider distribution through mammalian species, and may represent more than just 
misrouted cells.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(03)03050-6 
PMID: 12914985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2912. Int MS J. 2003 Apr;10(1):6-12.

EAE in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Uccelli A(1), Giunti D, Capello E, Roccatagliata L, Mancardi GL.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit, Department of Neurosciences, Ophthalmology and Genetics 
and Centre of Excellence for Biomedical Research, University of Genoa, Genoa,
Italy. auccelli@neurologia.unige.it

The common marmoset Callithrix jacchus is a primate phylogenetically close to
humans which, when immunized with myelin proteins, is susceptible to a form of
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) that resembles multiple sclerosis
(MS). Neuropathological features of marmoset EAE, including inflammation,
demyelination and axonal injury, are strikingly similar to findings in the human 
disease and are the final result of a joint autoimmune attack by myelin-specific 
T and B cells. The molecular and functional similarity of the marmoset immune
system, together with the availability of diagnostic tools that can be used in
humans (such as magnetic resonance imaging), makes the marmoset EAE a unique
model with which to evaluate the safety and efficacy of therapeutic strategies
for the treatment of MS.


PMID: 12906764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

