

2913. J Neurosci. 2003 Aug 6;23(18):7194-206.

Auditory cortical responses elicited in awake primates by random spectrum
stimuli.

Barbour DL(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
dbarbour@bme.jhu.edu

Contrary to findings in subcortical auditory nuclei, auditory cortex neurons have
traditionally been described as spiking only at the onsets of simple sounds such 
as pure tones or bandpass noise and to acoustic transients in complex sounds.
Furthermore, primary auditory cortex (A1) has traditionally been described as
mostly tone responsive and the lateral belt area of primates as mostly noise
responsive. The present study was designed to unify the study of these two
cortical areas using random spectrum stimuli (RSS), a new class of parametric,
wideband, stationary acoustic stimuli. We found that 60% of all neurons
encountered in A1 and the lateral belt of awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus) showed significant changes in firing rates in response to RSS. Of these,
89% showed sustained spiking in response to one or more individual RSS, a
substantially greater percentage than would be expected from traditional studies,
indicating that RSS are well suited for studying these two cortical areas. When
firing rates elicited by RSS were used to construct linear estimates of frequency
tuning for these sustained responders, the shape of the estimate function
remained relatively constant throughout the stimulus interval and across the
stimulus properties of mean sound level, spectral density, and spectral contrast.
This finding indicates that frequency tuning computed from RSS reflects a robust 
estimate of the actual tuning of a neuron. Use of this estimate to predict rate
responses to other RSS, however, yielded poor results, implying that auditory
cortex neurons integrate information across frequency nonlinearly. No systematic 
difference in prediction quality between A1 and the lateral belt could be
detected.


PMCID: PMC1945239
PMID: 12904480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2914. Mov Disord. 2003 Aug;18(8):872-83.

Fipamezole (JP-1730) is a potent alpha2 adrenergic receptor antagonist that
reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned primate model of
Parkinson's disease.

Savola JM(1), Hill M, Engstrom M, Merivuori H, Wurster S, McGuire SG, Fox SH,
Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Juvantia Pharma Ltd., PharmaCity, Turku, Finland.

Previous studies in the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease have
demonstrated that alpha(2) adrenergic receptor antagonists such as idazoxan,
rauwolscine, and yohimbine can alleviate L-dopa-induced dyskinesia and, in the
case of idazoxan, enhance the duration of anti-parkinsonian action of L-dopa.
Here we describe a novel alpha(2) antagonist, fipamezole (JP-1730), which has
high affinity at human alpha(2A) (K(i), 9.2 nM), alpha(2B) (17 nM), and alpha(2C)
(55 nM) receptors. In functional assays, the potent antagonist properties of
JP-1730 were demonstrated by its ability to reduce adrenaline-induced
(35)S-GTPgammaS binding with K(B) values of 8.4 nM, 16 nM, 4.7 nM at human
alpha(2A), alpha(2B), and alpha(2C) receptors, respectively. Assessment of the
ability of JP-1730 to bind to a range of 30 other binding sites showed that
JP-1730 also had moderate affinity at histamine H1 and H3 receptors and the
serotonin (5-HT) transporter (IC(50) 100 nM to 1 microM). In the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset, JP-1730 (10 mg/kg) significantly reduced L-dopa-induced dyskinesia
without compromising the anti-parkinsonian action of L-dopa. The duration of
action of the combination of L-dopa and JP-1730 (10 mg/kg) was 66% greater than
that of L-dopa alone. These data suggest that JP-1730 is a potent alpha(2)
adrenergic receptor antagonist with potential as an anti-dyskinetic agent in the 
treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2003 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10464 
PMID: 12889076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

