

2916. J Virol. 2003 Aug;77(16):9099-105.

Novel gamma-1 herpesviruses identified in free-ranging new world monkeys
(golden-handed tamarin [Saguinus midas], squirrel monkey [Saimiri sciureus], and 
white-faced saki [Pithecia pithecia]) in French Guiana.

de Thoisy B(1), Pouliquen JF, Lacoste V, Gessain A, Kazanji M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de RÃ©trovirologie, Institut Pasteur de la Guyane, Cayenne, French 
Guiana.

The recent finding of a novel Epstein-Barr virus-related lymphocryptovirus
(CalHV-3) in a captive colony of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in the
United States modifies the view that the host range of lymphocryptovirus is
restricted to humans and Old World primates. We investigated the presence of
Epstein-Barr virus-related viruses in 79 samples of New World monkeys caught in
the wild, including six species of the Cebidae family and one of the
Callitrichidae, living in the rain forest of French Guiana. Using a degenerate
consensus PCR method for the herpesvirus DNA polymerase gene, we identified three
novel lymphocryptoviruses from golden-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas) of the
Callitrichidae family and squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) and white-faced saki
(Pithecia pithecia) of the Cebidae family. With the CalHV-3 strain, these three
novel viruses constitute a well-supported phylogenetic clade in the
Lymphocryptovirus genus, which is clearly distinct from the lineage of Old World 
lymphocryptovirus, hosted by catarrhine monkeys and humans. In tamarins, the
prevalence of the novel lymphocryptovirus was more than 50%, indicating that it
circulates well in the wild population, perhaps due to specific ecoethological
patterns such as confrontations and intergroup migration. The detection and
partial molecular characterization of the polymerase gene of three novel
Gamma-1-Herpesvirinae from New World monkeys caught in the wild clearly indicate 
that free-ranging populations of platyrrhine are natural hosts of
lymphocryptoviruses. Further characterization of these novel viruses will provide
new insight not only into the origin and evolution of Gammaherpesvirinae but also
into their pathogenicity.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.77.16.9099-9105.2003 
PMCID: PMC167222
PMID: 12885928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2917. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Aug;121(4):342-53.

Ontogenetic characteristics of the vomeronasal organ in Saguinus geoffroyi and
Leontopithecus rosalia, with comparisons to other primates.

Smith TD(1), Bhatnagar KP, Bonar CJ, Shimp KL, Mooney MP, Siegel MI.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock,
Pennsylvania 16057, USA. timothy.smith@sru.edu

Erratum in
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2003 Nov;122(3):301.

It has been suggested that the variability of the primate vomeronasal organ (VNO)
may be greater than previously thought, especially among New World monkeys. It is
not clear to what extent VNO variation reflects ontogenetic, functional, or
phylogenetic differences among primates. The present study investigated VNO
anatomy in an ontogenetic series of two genera of callitrichid primates, in order
to assess recent attempts to develop VNO character states and to examine the
evidence for VNO functionality at different life stages. A sample of six
Leontopithecus rosalia, one L. chrysomelas, and six Saguinus geoffroyi was
serially sectioned and stained using various methods. Two adult Callithrix
jacchus were also sectioned for comparative purposes. The VNO of each primate was
examined by light microscopy along its entire rostrocaudal extent. VNOs of the
tamarins were described to determine whether they fit into 1 of 3 character
states recently attributed to various New World monkeys. At birth, the two
species of tamarins differed in the nature of communication between the VNO and
nasopalatine duct (NPD). Two of 3 neonatal S. geoffroyi exhibited a fused VNO
duct in a more dorsal position (adjacent to the nasal cavity) compared to that of
L. rosalia. The VNO duct communicated with the NPD and was patent in neonatal L. 
rosalia. Both species appeared to have an age-related increase in the amount of
sensory epithelium in the VNO. Subadult L. rosalia had caudal regions of the VNO 
that were exceptionally well-developed, similar to those of strepsirhine
primates. Compared to subadults, all adult callitrichids appeared to have more
ventral communications of the VNO duct directly into the NPD. Adult S. geoffroyi 
and L. chrysomelas both had VNO sensory epithelium separated by multiple patches 
of nonsensory epithelium. This contrasted with the VNOs of C. jacchus, which had 
a nearly continuous distribution of receptors on all surfaces of the VNO. The
findings indicate that tamarins have delayed maturation of the VNO epithelium,
and that some species have little or no perinatal function. These results also
suggest that ontogenetic changes in craniofacial form may alter the position of
the VNO in tamarins. The present study supports the use of at least two character
states to categorize the VNO of various callitrichids, but it is suggested that
one of these, previously called "reduced sensory epithelium" should be instead
termed "interrupted sensory epithelium." The distribution of VNO sensory
epithelium does not appear to reflect phylogenetic influences; it is more likely 
a functional characteristic that varies throughout postnatal life. Therefore,
this chemosensory system has a high degree of plasticity relating to age and
function, which in some instances can confound the use of characteristics as
phylogenetic traits. Further study is needed to quantify VNO receptors in various
species to determine if functional differences exist and if some species have
more precocious VNO function than others.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.10165 
PMID: 12884316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

