

2918. Gene Ther. 2003 Aug;10(15):1225-33.

Development of a novel non-human primate model for preclinical gene vector safety
studies. Determining the effects of intracerebral HSV-1 inoculation in the common
marmoset: a comparative study.

Deisboeck TS(1), Wakimoto H, Nestler U, Louis DN, Sehgal PK, Simon M, Chiocca EA,
Hochberg FH.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosurgical Service, Massachusetts General Hospital East, Harvard Medical
School, Charlestown, MA, USA.

The owl monkey (Aotus trivirgatus) has served as the standard non-human primate
model of herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) infection because it is highly
susceptible to HSV-1 encephalitis. Owl monkeys, however, are expensive, difficult
to obtain, and difficult to maintain in captivity, thus greatly hampering the
efficiency of preclinical gene therapy trials for brain tumors using HSV-1-based 
vectors. We have therefore compared the susceptibility of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) with the owl monkey in a model of intracerebral inoculation 
of wildtype HSV-1 F-strain at increasing titers. The common marmosets
consistently succumbed earlier to viral encephalitis than the owl monkeys. The
histological evaluation of the common marmoset revealed extensive HSV-1 infection
with a concomitant yet less marked inflammatory response compared to the owl
monkeys. PCR for HSV-1 demonstrated a similar extra-CNS shedding route in both
experimental models. Our findings show that the common marmoset is at least as
susceptible to intracerebral HSV-infection as the owl monkey and that it can
therefore serve as a valid and reliable experimental model for the important
preclinical safety tests of HSV-based therapeutic viral vector constructs in the 
brain.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.gt.3302003 
PMID: 12858187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2919. J Comp Psychol. 2003 Jun;117(2):166-75.

Prolactin and paternal care: comparison of three species of monogamous new world 
monkeys (Callicebus cupreus, Callithrix jacchus, and Callimico goeldii).

Schradin C(1), Reeder DM, Mendoza SP, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut und Museum, ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.

The authors explored whether prolactin is associated with paternal care in 3
monkey species: titi monkey (Callicebus cupreus), common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), and Goeldi's monkey (Callimico goeldii). They compared prolactin levels
in fathers before and after infant birth as well as between fathers and
nonfathers. C. cupreus fathers carry infants almost exclusively, have higher
prolactin levels than nonfathers, but show no prolactin increase after infant
birth. C. goeldii fathers carry infants only after 3 weeks, show an increase in
prolactin levels during the precarrying period, but do not have higher levels
than nonfathers. C jacchus fathers are the primary carriers, have higher
prolactin levels than nonfathers, and show a trend for a prolactin increase after
the birth of infants. In conclusion, species differences in the patterns of
prolactin secretion were evident and reflect the different paternal roles.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.117.2.166 
PMID: 12856787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

