

2921. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2003 Jul;36(7):913-8. Epub 2003 Jun 26.

Evidence of hemispheric specialization in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata)
using tympanic membrane thermometry.

Tomaz C(1), Verburg MS, Boere V, Pianta TF, Belo M.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Primatologia, Instituto de Biologia, Universidade de Brasília,
Brasília, DF, Brasil. ctomaz@unb.br

Recent studies have employed tympanic thermometry to assess lateralization of
cognitive and emotional functions in primates. However, no studies using this
technique have investigated the possibility of hemispheric specialization in New 
World monkeys. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate
tympanic membrane (TM) temperature asymmetries and their possible correlation
with stress responses in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata). Infrared TM
thermometry was completed bilaterally in 24 animals (14 males and 10 females)
during a stressful situation of capture and restraint. There were no significant 
differences between gender. A significant negative correlation was observed
between TM temperature of the right ear and the number of captures (r = -0.633;
P<0.001). Subjects with a more frequent previous history of captures (5 to 9
captures; N = 11) showed lower TM temperature when compared to those with fewer
previous captures (1 to 4 captures; N = 13). No differences were observed for the
left TM temperature. These results suggest that under intense emotional challenge
(capture and restraint) there is a stronger activation of the neural structures
situated in the right brain hemisphere. Taken together, the data reveal for the
first time evidence of hemispheric specialization in emotional physiological
processing in a New World monkey.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2003000700012 
PMID: 12845378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2922. Brain Res Brain Res Protoc. 2003 Jul;11(3):168-77.

Preparation for the in vivo recording of neuronal responses in the visual cortex 
of anaesthetised marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Bourne JA(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

The marmoset is becoming an important model for studies of primate vision, due to
factors such as its small body size, lissencephalic brain, short gestational
period and rapid postnatal development. For many studies of visual physiology
(including single-cell recordings), it is a requirement that the animal is
maintained under anaesthesia and neuromuscular block in order to ensure ocular
stability. However, maintaining such a small animal (290-400 g) in good
physiological condition for long periods requires expert attention. This becomes 
particularly important in the case of recordings from visual association cortex, 
where neuronal responses are known to be highly sensitive to factors such as the 
type and dose of anaesthetic, and the animal's physiological balance. The present
protocol summarises our laboratory's experience over the last decade in
developing a preparation for the study of marmoset visual cortex. It allows
excellent recording from extrastriate areas for periods of at least 48 h,
including the continuous study of isolated single cells for several hours.

DOI: 10.1016/s1385-299x(03)00044-8 
PMID: 12842222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

