

2924. Virology. 2003 Jun 20;311(1):72-80.

Comparison of tamarins and marmosets as hosts for GBV-B infections and the effect
of immunosuppression on duration of viremia.

Lanford RE(1), Chavez D, Notvall L, Brasky KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Southwest National Primate Research
Center, and Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San Antonio, TX 78227, 
USA. rlanford@icarus.sfbr.org

GBV-B virus is a close relative to hepatitis C virus (HCV) that causes hepatitis 
in tamarins, and thus, is an attractive surrogate model for HCV. In this study,
we demonstrate that the host range of GBV-B extends to the common marmoset with
an infection profile similar to that observed for tamarins. Marmoset hepatocytes 
were susceptible to in vitro infection with GBV-B. Virus was efficiently secreted
into the medium, and approximately 25% of hepatocytes were positive for NS3
staining. In an attempt to induce persistent infections, tamarins were
immunosuppressed with FK506 and inoculated with GBV-B. Although no chronic
infections were induced, the duration of viremia was increased in most animals.
In one animal, the duration of viremia was extended to 46 weeks, but viral
clearance occurred 18 weeks after stopping FK506 therapy. The greater
availability of marmosets in comparison to tamarins will greatly facilitate
future research efforts with this model.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6822(03)00193-4 
PMID: 12832204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2925. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2003 May-Jun;74(3):115-25.

Hawk calls elicit alarm and defensive reactions in captive Geoffroy's marmosets
(Callithrix geoffroyi).

Searcy YM(1), Caine NG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University-San Marcos, San Marcos, 
CA 92096, USA.

Most descriptions of callitrichid antipredator behavior have come from
observations of visual encounters with predators, but there is also anecdotal
evidence suggesting that callitrichids may use auditory cues associated with
raptors for the early detection of potential danger. In the present study,
Geoffroy's marmosets consistently reacted to the tape-recorded calls of a
red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) with high-intensity antipredator behaviors.
Compared to the taped calls of a raven (Corvus corax) and the taped sound of a
power drill, the hawk calls elicited more startle reactions, more alarm calls,
longer freeze times, increased use of safe areas of their enclosure and greater
disruption in ongoing behavior. Once in a relatively safe location in the
enclosure, the marmosets visually monitored the site of origin of the calls for
10 min and minimized locomotion for 30 min, but resumed baseline levels of other 
activities that had been disrupted by the hawk calls. Marmosets may use the
auditory cues associated with predators for early detection, and subsequent
avoidance, of a potential predator in the vicinity.

DOI: 10.1159/000070645 
PMID: 12826731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

