

2925. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2003 May-Jun;74(3):115-25.

Hawk calls elicit alarm and defensive reactions in captive Geoffroy's marmosets
(Callithrix geoffroyi).

Searcy YM(1), Caine NG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University-San Marcos, San Marcos, 
CA 92096, USA.

Most descriptions of callitrichid antipredator behavior have come from
observations of visual encounters with predators, but there is also anecdotal
evidence suggesting that callitrichids may use auditory cues associated with
raptors for the early detection of potential danger. In the present study,
Geoffroy's marmosets consistently reacted to the tape-recorded calls of a
red-tailed hawk (Buteo jamaicensis) with high-intensity antipredator behaviors.
Compared to the taped calls of a raven (Corvus corax) and the taped sound of a
power drill, the hawk calls elicited more startle reactions, more alarm calls,
longer freeze times, increased use of safe areas of their enclosure and greater
disruption in ongoing behavior. Once in a relatively safe location in the
enclosure, the marmosets visually monitored the site of origin of the calls for
10 min and minimized locomotion for 30 min, but resumed baseline levels of other 
activities that had been disrupted by the hawk calls. Marmosets may use the
auditory cues associated with predators for early detection, and subsequent
avoidance, of a potential predator in the vicinity.

DOI: 10.1159/000070645 
PMID: 12826731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2926. Vet Pathol. 2003 Jul;40(4):405-11.

Fatal Herpes simplex infection in a group of common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Mätz-Rensing K(1), Jentsch KD, Rensing S, Langenhuyzen S, Verschoor E, Niphuis H,
Kaup FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Primate Husbandry, German Primate
Center, Kellnerweg 4, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany. maetzr@dpz.gwdg.de

An outbreak of classical herpetic infection causing vesicoulcerative stomatitis
in a family group (eight animals) of Callithrix jacchus is described. In all
eight infected animals, human herpesvirus 1 (HHV-1) was identified as the
causative agent. This was confirmed by histologic, immunohistologic, and
molecular biologic investigations, as well as by virus isolation. The clinical
picture, the macroscopic appearance, and the histologic results indicated a
herpes infection as the cause of mortality. Alterations of the oral mucous
membranes were erosive to ulcerative with typical intranuclear inclusions.
Immunohistologic and molecular biologic techniques clearly identified the HHV-1
virus and excluded other possible primate herpesviruses such as B-virus, SA8,
HVP-2, and Herpes tamarinus. The significance of this herpesvirus infection for
colony management is discussed.

DOI: 10.1354/vp.40-4-405 
PMID: 12824512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

