

2926. Vet Pathol. 2003 Jul;40(4):405-11.

Fatal Herpes simplex infection in a group of common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Mätz-Rensing K(1), Jentsch KD, Rensing S, Langenhuyzen S, Verschoor E, Niphuis H,
Kaup FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine and Primate Husbandry, German Primate
Center, Kellnerweg 4, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany. maetzr@dpz.gwdg.de

An outbreak of classical herpetic infection causing vesicoulcerative stomatitis
in a family group (eight animals) of Callithrix jacchus is described. In all
eight infected animals, human herpesvirus 1 (HHV-1) was identified as the
causative agent. This was confirmed by histologic, immunohistologic, and
molecular biologic investigations, as well as by virus isolation. The clinical
picture, the macroscopic appearance, and the histologic results indicated a
herpes infection as the cause of mortality. Alterations of the oral mucous
membranes were erosive to ulcerative with typical intranuclear inclusions.
Immunohistologic and molecular biologic techniques clearly identified the HHV-1
virus and excluded other possible primate herpesviruses such as B-virus, SA8,
HVP-2, and Herpes tamarinus. The significance of this herpesvirus infection for
colony management is discussed.

DOI: 10.1354/vp.40-4-405 
PMID: 12824512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2927. Endocrinology. 2003 Jul;144(7):3130-7.

Differentiation-dependent expression of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, type
10, in the rodent testis: effect of aging in Leydig cells.

Ivell R(1), Balvers M, Anand RJ, Paust HJ, McKinnell C, Sharpe R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg,
Falkenreid 88, 20251 Hamburg, Germany. ivell@ihf.de

Expression of the new 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD), type 10
(17beta-HSD-10), formerly known as endoplasmic reticulum-associated
amyloid-binding protein, has been investigated in the testes of various mammals
under normal and perturbed conditions. Results show that 17beta-HSD-10 is a major
product of both fetal and adult-type Leydig cells. In the former, protein
persists until late in postnatal development; and in the short-day hamster model,
it does not disappear when Leydig cells involute. During puberty in the rat,
immunohistochemical staining for 17beta-HSD-10 in adult-type Leydig cells first
becomes evident on d 20, increasing to maximal staining intensity by d 35. In the
rat, but not in the mouse or any other species examined, there is also staining
in late spermatids. Examination of testes from rats subjected to perinatal
treatment with either a GnRH antagonist or low and high doses of
diethylstilbestrol revealed that expression of 17beta-HSD-10 follows closely
Leydig cell differentiation status, correlating with 3beta-HSD expression in a
previous study. In aging (23 months) rat testes, Leydig cell (but not germ cell) 
immunostaining for 17beta-HSD-10 is markedly reduced. 17beta-HSD-10 seems to
preferentially convert 3alpha-androstanediol into dihydrotestosterone, and
estradiol to estrone. Thus, perinatal expression of this enzyme in fetal Leydig
cells may contribute to protecting these cells from estrogens and encourage
androgen formation.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2002-0082 
PMID: 12810569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

