

2927. Endocrinology. 2003 Jul;144(7):3130-7.

Differentiation-dependent expression of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, type
10, in the rodent testis: effect of aging in Leydig cells.

Ivell R(1), Balvers M, Anand RJ, Paust HJ, McKinnell C, Sharpe R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg,
Falkenreid 88, 20251 Hamburg, Germany. ivell@ihf.de

Expression of the new 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD), type 10
(17beta-HSD-10), formerly known as endoplasmic reticulum-associated
amyloid-binding protein, has been investigated in the testes of various mammals
under normal and perturbed conditions. Results show that 17beta-HSD-10 is a major
product of both fetal and adult-type Leydig cells. In the former, protein
persists until late in postnatal development; and in the short-day hamster model,
it does not disappear when Leydig cells involute. During puberty in the rat,
immunohistochemical staining for 17beta-HSD-10 in adult-type Leydig cells first
becomes evident on d 20, increasing to maximal staining intensity by d 35. In the
rat, but not in the mouse or any other species examined, there is also staining
in late spermatids. Examination of testes from rats subjected to perinatal
treatment with either a GnRH antagonist or low and high doses of
diethylstilbestrol revealed that expression of 17beta-HSD-10 follows closely
Leydig cell differentiation status, correlating with 3beta-HSD expression in a
previous study. In aging (23 months) rat testes, Leydig cell (but not germ cell) 
immunostaining for 17beta-HSD-10 is markedly reduced. 17beta-HSD-10 seems to
preferentially convert 3alpha-androstanediol into dihydrotestosterone, and
estradiol to estrone. Thus, perinatal expression of this enzyme in fetal Leydig
cells may contribute to protecting these cells from estrogens and encourage
androgen formation.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2002-0082 
PMID: 12810569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2928. J Neurol Sci. 2003 Aug 15;212(1-2):21-30.

1H-NMR spectroscopy combined with pattern recognition analysis reveals
characteristic chemical patterns in urines of MS patients and non-human primates 
with MS-like disease.

't Hart BA(1), Vogels JT, Spijksma G, Brok HP, Polman C, van der Greef J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, P.O. Box
3306, 2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR) spectroscopy in combination with
pattern recognition techniques were used to investigate the composition of
organic compounds in urines from patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), patients 
with other neurological diseases (OND) and healthy controls (H). Using a valid
animal model of MS, namely the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the relation of disease
progression and alteration of the urine composition was investigated. Urine
samples were collected during different stages of EAE, either induced with whole 
human myelin or with the myelin protein MOG in complete adjuvant. The urine
samples were analysed with 1H-NMR spectroscopy allowing simultaneous detection of
an array of compounds. Spectral differences between urines from EAE-affected and 
healthy monkeys were assessed with multivariate analysis. Evidence is provided
that development of EAE is associated with changes in the chemical composition of
the urine, in particular of compounds with NMR peaks in the region of the
spectrum between 0.5 and 3.50 ppm. In addition, we found preliminary evidence for
differences between urines from MS, OND and H groups.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(03)00080-7 
PMID: 12809995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

