

2934. Genes Immun. 2003 Jun;4(4):251-7.

Evolution of the beta defensin 2 gene in primates.

Boniotto M(1), Tossi A, DelPero M, Sgubin S, Antcheva N, Santon D, Masters J,
Crovella S.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze della Riproduzione e dello Sviluppo, Universit√† di
Trieste, Trieste, Italy.

With the aim of further investigating the molecular evolution of beta defensin
genes, after having analysed beta defensin 1 (DEFB1) in humans and several
nonhuman primate species, we have studied the evolution of the beta defensin 2
gene (DEFB2), which codifies for a peptide with antimicrobial and chemoattractant
activity, in humans and 16 primate species. We have found evidence of positive
selection during the evolution of orthologous DEFB2 genes at two points on a
phylogenetic tree relating these primates: during the divergence of the
platyrrhines from the catarrhines and during the divergence of the
Cercopithecidae from the Hylobatidae, Great Apes and humans. Furthermore, amino
acid variations in Old World Monkeys seem to centre either on residues that are
involved in oligomerisation in the human molecule, or that are conserved (40-80%)
in beta-defensins in general. It is thus likely that these variations affect the 
biological function of the molecules and suggest that their synthesis and
functional analysis might reveal interesting new information as to their role in 
innate immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.gene.6363958 
PMID: 12761560  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2935. Mol Ecol. 2003 Apr;12(4):1101-8.

Matrilineal genetic structure within and among populations of the cooperatively
breeding common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Faulkes CG(1), Arruda MF, Monteiro Da Cruz MA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Queen Mary, University of London, Mile End
Road, London E1 4NS, UK. c.g.faulkes@qmul.ac.uk

Common marmosets are members of the family Callitrichidae, South American
primates characterized by highly social group living and cooperative breeding. In
this study we analysed 1112 base pairs (bp) of the mitochondrial control region
in 59 Callithrix jacchus individuals, sampled mainly from two geographically
distinct field sites in N.E. Brazil. Analysis of molecular variation revealed a
highly significant genetic structuring of haplotypes between social groups and
between populations. Examination of matrilineal genetic structure within social
groups revealed that seven of nine recorded breeding pairs were from different
maternal lineages, indicating assortative mating and outbreeding. In addition to 
the breeders, at least six of 10 groups contained adult individuals from
different matrilines, with five haplotypes present in one social group of nine
animals. Groups of mixed lineages raise questions about potential reproductive
conflicts of interest, and the extent of kin-selected altruism in the evolution
and maintenance of cooperative breeding in this species.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2003.01809.x 
PMID: 12753228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

