

2935. Mol Ecol. 2003 Apr;12(4):1101-8.

Matrilineal genetic structure within and among populations of the cooperatively
breeding common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Faulkes CG(1), Arruda MF, Monteiro Da Cruz MA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Queen Mary, University of London, Mile End
Road, London E1 4NS, UK. c.g.faulkes@qmul.ac.uk

Common marmosets are members of the family Callitrichidae, South American
primates characterized by highly social group living and cooperative breeding. In
this study we analysed 1112 base pairs (bp) of the mitochondrial control region
in 59 Callithrix jacchus individuals, sampled mainly from two geographically
distinct field sites in N.E. Brazil. Analysis of molecular variation revealed a
highly significant genetic structuring of haplotypes between social groups and
between populations. Examination of matrilineal genetic structure within social
groups revealed that seven of nine recorded breeding pairs were from different
maternal lineages, indicating assortative mating and outbreeding. In addition to 
the breeders, at least six of 10 groups contained adult individuals from
different matrilines, with five haplotypes present in one social group of nine
animals. Groups of mixed lineages raise questions about potential reproductive
conflicts of interest, and the extent of kin-selected altruism in the evolution
and maintenance of cooperative breeding in this species.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-294x.2003.01809.x 
PMID: 12753228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2936. J Anat. 2003 Apr;202(4):397-407.

Pollical oblique ligament in humans and non-human primates.

Shrewsbury M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Professor Emeritus, San Jose State University, California, USA.

A morphological study of the oblique ligament in the thumb is presented. The
ligament was consistently described in human specimens and compared with
dissections of non-human primates from different species. The oblique ligament
was found in some, but not all, specimens in each of the following species
examined: chimpanzee, orangutan, gibbon, anubis baboon, hamadryas baboon,
squirrel monkey, lemur and marmoset. A revised identity of the oblique ligament
is proposed as a reinforced distal border of a fibro-osseous annular pollical
flexor sheath and whose function is not independent of the flexor sheath. The
constant presence and tendinous trait of the pollical oblique ligament in humans,
when compared with non-human primates, supports the notion that the oblique
ligament strengthens the pollical flexor sheath in humans for restraint of the
flexor pollicis longus tendon during forceful precision pinching. A derivation of
the pollical oblique ligament is considered as representing a vestigial radial
limb of a flexor pollicis superficialis tendon in the thumb.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.2003.00172.x 
PMCID: PMC1571092
PMID: 12739617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

