

2936. J Anat. 2003 Apr;202(4):397-407.

Pollical oblique ligament in humans and non-human primates.

Shrewsbury M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Professor Emeritus, San Jose State University, California, USA.

A morphological study of the oblique ligament in the thumb is presented. The
ligament was consistently described in human specimens and compared with
dissections of non-human primates from different species. The oblique ligament
was found in some, but not all, specimens in each of the following species
examined: chimpanzee, orangutan, gibbon, anubis baboon, hamadryas baboon,
squirrel monkey, lemur and marmoset. A revised identity of the oblique ligament
is proposed as a reinforced distal border of a fibro-osseous annular pollical
flexor sheath and whose function is not independent of the flexor sheath. The
constant presence and tendinous trait of the pollical oblique ligament in humans,
when compared with non-human primates, supports the notion that the oblique
ligament strengthens the pollical flexor sheath in humans for restraint of the
flexor pollicis longus tendon during forceful precision pinching. A derivation of
the pollical oblique ligament is considered as representing a vestigial radial
limb of a flexor pollicis superficialis tendon in the thumb.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.2003.00172.x 
PMCID: PMC1571092
PMID: 12739617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2937. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2002;5(2):139-49.

Cage use and feeding height preferences of captive common marmosets (Callithrix
j. jacchus) in two-tier cages.

Buchanan-Smith HM(1), Shand C, Morris K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology University of Stirling, Scotland. h.m.buchanan-smith@
stir.ac.uk

Determining appropriate feeding regimes has important welfare implications for
cap-tive primates. This study examined the preference of food bowl heights in 6
pairs of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) housed in a 2-tier cage system.
Given that marmosets are arboreal and spend most of their time in the upper half 
of their cages, we predicted that the marmosets would prefer a food bowl
positioned at the top of the cage over one positioned at the bottom. We further
predicted that this would be more apparent for the marmosets housed in lower tier
than upper tier cages. Given a choice regarding where to feed, marmosets did
prefer the top bowl to the bottom bowl; how-ever, when only 1 food bowl was
presented, its position had no significant effect on the marmosets' feeding
behavior. In addition, contrary to the prediction, there were few differences in 
the marmosets' feeding behavior in the upper and lower tier cages. Feeding the
marmosets in a bowl at the bottom of their cage did not result in greater cage
use. On the basis of this study, we recommend positioning captive marmosets' food
bowls high in the cage.

DOI: 10.1207/S15327604JAWS0502_04 
PMID: 12738582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

