

2937. J Appl Anim Welf Sci. 2002;5(2):139-49.

Cage use and feeding height preferences of captive common marmosets (Callithrix
j. jacchus) in two-tier cages.

Buchanan-Smith HM(1), Shand C, Morris K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology University of Stirling, Scotland. h.m.buchanan-smith@
stir.ac.uk

Determining appropriate feeding regimes has important welfare implications for
cap-tive primates. This study examined the preference of food bowl heights in 6
pairs of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) housed in a 2-tier cage system.
Given that marmosets are arboreal and spend most of their time in the upper half 
of their cages, we predicted that the marmosets would prefer a food bowl
positioned at the top of the cage over one positioned at the bottom. We further
predicted that this would be more apparent for the marmosets housed in lower tier
than upper tier cages. Given a choice regarding where to feed, marmosets did
prefer the top bowl to the bottom bowl; how-ever, when only 1 food bowl was
presented, its position had no significant effect on the marmosets' feeding
behavior. In addition, contrary to the prediction, there were few differences in 
the marmosets' feeding behavior in the upper and lower tier cages. Feeding the
marmosets in a bowl at the bottom of their cage did not result in greater cage
use. On the basis of this study, we recommend positioning captive marmosets' food
bowls high in the cage.

DOI: 10.1207/S15327604JAWS0502_04 
PMID: 12738582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2938. J Med Primatol. 2003 Feb;32(1):57-66.

Ovarian stimulation of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) using recombinant
human follicle stimulating hormone.

Marshall VS(1), Browne MA, Knowles L, Golos TG, Thomson JA.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin Medical School,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53715, USA.

To reduce the number of animals required for controlled studies of marmoset
oocytes and early embryos, a superovulation protocol was developed for the common
marmoset. Females were given up to 50 i.u./day recombinant human follicle
stimulating hormone (FSH)--(r-hFSH) for 6 days. Ovaries were visualized by a
modified laparoscopic technique and follicular aspiration was performed using a
needle and suction apparatus inserted directly through an otoscope speculum. The 
number of follicles + ovulation points (+/- S.E.) was 2.9 (+/- 0.2) in controls
and 14.1 (+/- 1.6; P < or = 0.001) in the 50 i.u. r-hFSH per day animals.
Oocytes, typically at the germinal vesicle stage at collection, extruded a first 
polar body within 26 hours. In vitro fertilization was performed and embryos
developed to the hatched blastocyst stage (34%). With many high quality oocytes
and the ability to synchronize cycles, the marmoset is a valuable primate model
for examining nuclear reprograming and early embryonic events.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2003.00003.x 
PMID: 12733603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

