

2938. J Med Primatol. 2003 Feb;32(1):57-66.

Ovarian stimulation of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) using recombinant
human follicle stimulating hormone.

Marshall VS(1), Browne MA, Knowles L, Golos TG, Thomson JA.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin Medical School,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53715, USA.

To reduce the number of animals required for controlled studies of marmoset
oocytes and early embryos, a superovulation protocol was developed for the common
marmoset. Females were given up to 50 i.u./day recombinant human follicle
stimulating hormone (FSH)--(r-hFSH) for 6 days. Ovaries were visualized by a
modified laparoscopic technique and follicular aspiration was performed using a
needle and suction apparatus inserted directly through an otoscope speculum. The 
number of follicles + ovulation points (+/- S.E.) was 2.9 (+/- 0.2) in controls
and 14.1 (+/- 1.6; P < or = 0.001) in the 50 i.u. r-hFSH per day animals.
Oocytes, typically at the germinal vesicle stage at collection, extruded a first 
polar body within 26 hours. In vitro fertilization was performed and embryos
developed to the hatched blastocyst stage (34%). With many high quality oocytes
and the ability to synchronize cycles, the marmoset is a valuable primate model
for examining nuclear reprograming and early embryonic events.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2003.00003.x 
PMID: 12733603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2939. Gene Ther. 2003 May;10(10):890-901.

Gene therapy in nonhuman primate models of human autoimmune disease.

t'Hart BA(1), Vervoordeldonk M, Heeney JL, Tak PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, BPRC, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

Before autoimmune diseases in humans can be treated with gene therapy, the safety
and efficacy of the used vectors must be tested in valid experimental models.
Monkeys, such as the rhesus macaque or the common marmoset, provide such models. 
This publication reviews the state of the art in monkey models for rheumatoid
arthritis and multiple sclerosis and the (few) gene therapy experiments that have
been performed in these models.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.gt.3302017 
PMID: 12732874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

