

2942. J Neurophysiol. 2003 Aug;90(2):930-7. Epub 2003 Apr 23.

The nature of V1 neural responses to 2D moving patterns depends on
receptive-field structure in the marmoset monkey.

Tinsley CJ(1), Webb BS, Barraclough NE, Vincent CJ, Parker A, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham
NG7 2RD, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    J Neurophysiol. 2004 Aug;92(2):1263.

A plaid pattern is formed when two sinusoidal gratings of different orientations 
are added together. Previous work has shown that V1 neurons selectively encode
the direction and orientation of the component gratings in a moving plaid but not
the direction of the plaid itself (Movshon et al. 1985). We recorded the
responses of 49 direction-selective neurons to moving gratings and plaid patterns
in area V1 of the anesthetized marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). The
responses of V1 neurons to rectangular patches of varying lengths and widths
containing gratings of optimal spatial frequency were used to measure size and
aspect ratio of the receptive-field subunits. We measured responses to plaid
patterns moving in different directions and graded the magnitude of the response 
to the direction of motion of the plaid and the response to the direction of
motion of the component gratings. We found significant correlations between
receptive-field structure and the type and strength of its response to moving
plaid patterns. The strength of pattern and component responses was significantly
correlated with the interrelated properties of direction tuning width (Spearman's
r = 0.82, P < 0.001), and receptive-field subunit aspect ratio (Spearman's r =
-0.79, P < 0.001). Neurons with broad direction tuning and short, wide
receptive-field subunits gave their greatest response when the plaid moved in
their preferred direction. Conversely, neurons with narrow direction tuning and
long, narrow receptive-field subunits gave their greatest responses when the
plaid moved in a direction such that one of its components moved in the preferred
direction.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00708.2002 
PMID: 12711710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2943. Brain Res. 2003 May 16;972(1-2):119-26.

Comparison of the neuroprotective effect of clomethiazole, AR-R15896AR and
NXY-059 in a primate model of stroke using histological and behavioural measures.

Marshall JW(1), Green AR, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
jwbm2@cus.cam.ac.uk

Three experimental neuroprotective agents (clomethiazole, AR-R15896AR and
NXY-059) have recently been tested in a primate model of acute ischaemic stroke. 
As the experimental techniques used in all three studies were similar and the
compounds were administered at clinically relevant doses, a comparative analysis 
of the functional benefits of these drug-treatments has now been performed.
Furthermore a more detailed histological analysis of the neuroprotection afforded
by the drugs has also been made. NXY-059 produced almost twice the degree of
neuroprotection than that seen following clomethiazole or AR-R15896AR. Protection
by NXY-059 was seen in measurements of damage to cortex and white matter.
Clomethiazole and AR-R15896AR provided less protection of cortex and white matter
than NXY-059. Conspicuously, AR-R15896AR was without effect in sub-cortical
regions. NXY-059 was the only compound to produce a major, statistically
significant improvement in the motor deficit induced by the stroke. All three
drugs also reduced the degree of spatial neglect 3 weeks after pMCAO, and 10
weeks later only NXY-059 still provided significant additional functional benefit
to the spontaneous improvement seen in stroked control animals not receiving
treatment. The overview of the behavioural effects and these new histological
findings suggest that NXY-059 was by far the most effective neuroprotective agent
of the three examined.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(03)02511-3 
PMID: 12711084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

