

2945. Cancer Res. 2003 Apr 15;63(8):1756-8.

A promoter that acquired p53 responsiveness during primate evolution.

Contente A(1), Zischler H, Einspanier A, Dobbelstein M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Virologie, Philipps-Universität Marburg, Germany.

The tumor suppressor p53 activates the transcription of human PIG3 through direct
interaction with a polymorphic microsatellite sequence, (TGYCC)(n). Here, the
evolution of this p53-responsive element was recapitulated. Comparison between
primate species revealed that the PIG3 promoter acquired this sequence element in
its full length only in Hominoidea (apes and humans), whereas the number of TGYCC
repeats is far lower in monkeys. Accordingly, only the PIG3 promoters from
Hominoidea respond efficiently to p53, whereas those from monkeys respond poorly 
or not at all. In parallel, the PIG3 gene was strongly induced by p53 in human
and chimpanzee cells but was unaffected by p53 in cells derived from a common
marmoset monkey. Thus, a novel p53 target gene appeared as recently as during the
evolution of primates. This suggests that mechanisms of tumor suppression are
subject to ongoing evolution in humans and their closest relatives.


PMID: 12702557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2946. Exp Brain Res. 2003 May;150(1):114-6. Epub 2003 Mar 21.

Behaviour of marmoset monkeys in a T-maze: comparison with rats and macaque
monkeys on a spatial delayed non-match to sample task.

Easton A(1), Parker K, Derrington AM, Parker A.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, NG7 2RD,
Nottingham, UK. ae@psychology.nottingham.ac.uk

The marmoset ( Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World monkey that is
increasingly being used in a laboratory setting. A previous set of studies has
provided a direct comparison between the performance of rats and macaque monkeys 
on a spatial delayed non-match to sample task in a T-maze (Murray et al. 1989,
Experimental Brain Research 74:173-186; Markowska et al. 1989, Experimental Brain
Research 74:187-201). In the current experiment we replicated these studies using
the marmoset. This allowed for a comparison of the behavioural performance of the
marmoset with both rats and macaque monkeys. Marmosets performed well at the
task, performing better than macaques, and at a similar level to rats. A closer
analysis of the data from the present experiment suggests that marmosets
spontaneously alternated in the T-maze, a strategy often adopted by rats, but not
by macaques in the T-maze.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-003-1409-5 
PMID: 12698223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

