

2947. Exp Brain Res. 2003 May;150(1):19-24. Epub 2003 Mar 22.

Neurofilament protein expression in the geniculostriate pathway of a New World
monkey ( Callithrix jacchus).

Bourne JA(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Biomedical Sciences, Monash University, PO
Box 13F, Victoria 3800, Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

We examined the expression profile of non-phosphorylated neurofilament protein in
the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and striate cortex (V1) of a New
World simian, the marmoset monkey, using the monoclonal antibody SMI-32. The
overall distribution of neurofilament protein in the marmoset resembled that
previously described in Old World monkeys. While immunostained neurones were
observed throughout the LGN, there were clear laminar differences in terms of
both cellular and neuropil labelling. Neurones in the magnocellular layer cells
stained more densely than those in the parvocellular layers. The marmoset's
well-defined koniocellular layers showed an overall light stain of both neurones 
and neuropil. In V1, densely stained pyramidal cells and heavy neuropil label
were observed in the two sublayers that send projections to the middle temporal
area (MT): a supragranular band located in layer 3C (Brodmann's layer 4B) and an 
infragranular band located near the top of layer 6. More lightly stained, small
pyramidal cells were also found in layer 3Balpha. Accordingly, in both New World 
and Old World monkeys the expression of neurofilament protein is correlated with 
specific functional subdivisions of the geniculocortical pathway. In particular, 
projection neurones associated with fast-conducting pathways to the extrastriate 
'dorsal stream' appear to contain higher levels of this protein.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-003-1397-5 
PMID: 12698212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2948. Anat Histol Embryol. 2002 Dec;31(6):375-7.

Morphological characteristics of C1 and C2 adrenergic neurone groups in marmoset 
monkey brainstem by using antibody against
phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase.

Jeong YG(1), Lee NS, Chung SH, Lee KY, Suh JG, Hyun BH, Kang TC, Oh YS, Won MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine, Hallym University, Chunchon
200-702, Republic of Korea.

This work describes a mapping study of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase
(PNMT) immunoreactive neurones and fibres in the medulla oblongata of the
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus. Two groups of PNMT-immunoreactive neurones
were found in the marmoset monkey medulla oblongata: a ventrolateral (C1 group)
and a dorsomedial PNMT-immunoreactive cells group (C2 group). The
PNMT-immunoreactive cells in the ventrolateral group C1 were found to be located 
around the lateral reticular nucleus. The PNMT-immunoreactive somata within the
ventrolateral medulla are round to oval, and mostly multipolar with branched
processes. In the dorsomedial group C2, PNMT-immunoreactive cell bodies appeared 
near the obex. The majority of the dorsomedial PNMT-immunoreactive neurones were 
observed in the nucleus tractus solitarius; although some were present in the
dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. The PNMT-immunoreactive somata in the
dorsomedial medulla were small and round or ovoid. These results provide
information upon the adrenergic system in the medulla oblongata of a species that
presents a useful model of a small primate brain, the marmoset monkey.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1439-0264.2002.00424.x 
PMID: 12693759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

