

2948. Anat Histol Embryol. 2002 Dec;31(6):375-7.

Morphological characteristics of C1 and C2 adrenergic neurone groups in marmoset 
monkey brainstem by using antibody against
phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase.

Jeong YG(1), Lee NS, Chung SH, Lee KY, Suh JG, Hyun BH, Kang TC, Oh YS, Won MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine, Hallym University, Chunchon
200-702, Republic of Korea.

This work describes a mapping study of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase
(PNMT) immunoreactive neurones and fibres in the medulla oblongata of the
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus. Two groups of PNMT-immunoreactive neurones
were found in the marmoset monkey medulla oblongata: a ventrolateral (C1 group)
and a dorsomedial PNMT-immunoreactive cells group (C2 group). The
PNMT-immunoreactive cells in the ventrolateral group C1 were found to be located 
around the lateral reticular nucleus. The PNMT-immunoreactive somata within the
ventrolateral medulla are round to oval, and mostly multipolar with branched
processes. In the dorsomedial group C2, PNMT-immunoreactive cell bodies appeared 
near the obex. The majority of the dorsomedial PNMT-immunoreactive neurones were 
observed in the nucleus tractus solitarius; although some were present in the
dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. The PNMT-immunoreactive somata in the
dorsomedial medulla were small and round or ovoid. These results provide
information upon the adrenergic system in the medulla oblongata of a species that
presents a useful model of a small primate brain, the marmoset monkey.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1439-0264.2002.00424.x 
PMID: 12693759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2949. Lab Anim. 2003 Apr;37(2):100-7.

The puzzle-feeder as feeding enrichment for common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus): a pilot study.

de Rosa C(1), Vitale A, Puopolo M.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Comparative Psychology, Laboratorio di Fisiopatologia di Organo e
di Sistema, Istituto Superiore di Sanit√†, Viale Regina Elena, 299, 00161 Rome,
Italy.

The use of a puzzle-feeder, as feeding enrichment, was investigated in three
families of captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The study was carried 
out as a simultaneous choice test between two cages: one contained the
puzzle-feeder, the other contained the usual food dishes, but otherwise both were
arranged similarly. The monkeys were allowed to choose whether to feed from the
usual dishes, or from the puzzle-feeder which required more effort. They were
observed for two sessions in which they were differently motivated to feed. The
enriched cage was always visited first, the marmosets managed to extract food
from the puzzle-feeder, and spent more time eating from the puzzle-feeder when
less hungry. These data contribute to a wider understanding on the use, and the
effects, of feeding enrichments with different captive non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1258/00236770360563732 
PMID: 12689420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

