

2950. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2003 Apr;88(4):1697-704.

Suppression of a pituitary-ovarian axis by chronic oral administration of a novel
nonpeptide gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist, TAK-013, in cynomolgus
monkeys.

Hara T(1), Araki H, Kusaka M, Harada M, Cho N, Suzuki N, Furuya S, Fujino M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Division, Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd., Osaka
532-8686, Japan. Hara_Takahito@takeda.co.jp

TAK-013 is a novel nonpeptide and orally active GnRH antagonist. We first
examined the effect of TAK-013 on GnRH-stimulated LH release using
primary-cultured pituitary cells of cynomolgus monkeys. TAK-013 suppressed LH
release to below basal levels at concentrations higher than 100 nM with the
IC(50) value of 36 nM. Next, we examined the effect of chronic oral
administration of TAK-013 on serum hormone levels in regularly cycling female
cynomolgus monkeys. TAK-013 administered at 90 mg/kg x d (30 mg/kg 3 times daily)
for approximately 80 d continued to suppress LH, estradiol, and progesterone, but
not FSH. The suppressive effect was reversible, in that normal profiles of sex
steroids were observed immediately after discontinuation of the TAK-013
treatment. Interestingly, the suppressive effect of TAK-013 was not observed in
marmoset monkeys. In summary, TAK-013 by oral administration suppresses a
pituitary-ovarian axis continuously and reversibly in cynomolgus monkeys.
Considering that TAK-013 has more potent antagonistic properties for human GnRH
receptor than for monkey receptor, our data suggest that TAK-013 would be
effective for reproductive disorders such as endometriosis and uterine leiomyoma 
and useful for assisted reproductive technology procedures.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2002-021065 
PMID: 12679460  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2951. Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Apr 11;466(1-2):147-54.

Effect of JTT-705 on cholesteryl ester transfer protein and plasma lipid levels
in normolipidemic animals.

Okamoto H(1), Iwamoto Y, Maki M, Sotani T, Yonemori F, Wakitani K.

Author information: 
(1)Central Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Japan Tobacco Inc., 1-1
Murasaki-cho, Takatsuki, 569-1125, Osaka, Japan. hiroshi.okamoto@ims.jti.co.jp

This study evaluated JTT-705,
S-[2-([[1-(2-ethylbutyl)cyclohexyl]carbonyl]amino)phenyl]2-methylpropanethioate, 
as a cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) inhibitor in several animal
species. In vitro, JTT-705 inhibited plasma CETP activities of humans, rabbits,
hamsters, cynomolgus monkeys and marmosets with IC(50) values of 5.5, 1.0, 11.7, 
2.4 and 6.3 microM, respectively. The thiol form (JTP-25203) also inhibited those
activities with IC(50) values of 2.8, 0.44, 0.52, 1.3 and 1.1 microM,
respectively. Following oral administration to normolipidemic animals (rabbits,
hamsters and marmosets), JTT-705 reduced plasma CETP activity, increased high
density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-cholesterol), and decreased the ratio of
non-HDL-cholesterol to HDL-cholesterol (atherogenic index) in all species. In
marmosets, JTT-705 increased slow alpha-migrating lipoprotein (apolipoprotein
E-rich HDL) in agarose gel electrophoresis, indicating that HDL metabolism in
JTT-705-treated marmosets is similar to that in CETP-deficient humans. These
results indicate that JTT-705 can be expected to inhibit plasma CETP activity and
improve plasma lipoprotein profiles in a wide range of animal species, including 
humans.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(03)01548-6 
PMID: 12679151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

