

2951. Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Apr 11;466(1-2):147-54.

Effect of JTT-705 on cholesteryl ester transfer protein and plasma lipid levels
in normolipidemic animals.

Okamoto H(1), Iwamoto Y, Maki M, Sotani T, Yonemori F, Wakitani K.

Author information: 
(1)Central Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Japan Tobacco Inc., 1-1
Murasaki-cho, Takatsuki, 569-1125, Osaka, Japan. hiroshi.okamoto@ims.jti.co.jp

This study evaluated JTT-705,
S-[2-([[1-(2-ethylbutyl)cyclohexyl]carbonyl]amino)phenyl]2-methylpropanethioate, 
as a cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) inhibitor in several animal
species. In vitro, JTT-705 inhibited plasma CETP activities of humans, rabbits,
hamsters, cynomolgus monkeys and marmosets with IC(50) values of 5.5, 1.0, 11.7, 
2.4 and 6.3 microM, respectively. The thiol form (JTP-25203) also inhibited those
activities with IC(50) values of 2.8, 0.44, 0.52, 1.3 and 1.1 microM,
respectively. Following oral administration to normolipidemic animals (rabbits,
hamsters and marmosets), JTT-705 reduced plasma CETP activity, increased high
density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-cholesterol), and decreased the ratio of
non-HDL-cholesterol to HDL-cholesterol (atherogenic index) in all species. In
marmosets, JTT-705 increased slow alpha-migrating lipoprotein (apolipoprotein
E-rich HDL) in agarose gel electrophoresis, indicating that HDL metabolism in
JTT-705-treated marmosets is similar to that in CETP-deficient humans. These
results indicate that JTT-705 can be expected to inhibit plasma CETP activity and
improve plasma lipoprotein profiles in a wide range of animal species, including 
humans.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(03)01548-6 
PMID: 12679151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2952. Curr Med Chem. 2003 Jun;10(12):1065-76.

Development of tridentate iron chelators: from desferrithiocin to ICL670.

Nick H(1), Acklin P, Lattmann R, Buehlmayer P, Hauffe S, Schupp J, Alberti D.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma Ltd., Basel, Switzerland. hanspeter.nick@pharma.novartis.com

Successful treatment of beta-thalassemia requires two key elements: blood
transfusion and iron chelation. Regular blood transfusions considerably expand
the lifespan of patients, however, without the removal of the consequential
accumulation of body iron, few patients live beyond their second decade. In 1963,
the introduction of desferrioxamine (DFO), a hexadentate chelator, marked a
breakthrough in the treatment of beta-thalassemia. DFO significantly reduces body
iron burden and iron-related morbidity and mortality. DFO is still the only drug 
for general use in the treatment of transfusion dependent iron overload. However,
its very short plasma half-life and poor oral activity necessitate special modes 
of application (subcutaneous or intravenous infusion) which are inconvenient, can
cause local reactions and are difficult to be accepted by many patients. Over the
past four decades, many different laboratories have invested major efforts in the
identification of orally active iron chelators from several hundreds of molecules
of synthetic, microbial or plant origin. The discovery of ferrithiocin in 1980,
followed by the synthesis of the tridentate chelator desferrithiocin and proof of
its oral activity raised a lot of hope. However, the compound proved to be toxic 
in animals. Over a period of about fifteen years many desferrithiocin derivatives
and molecules with broader alterations led to the discovery of numerous new
compounds some of which were much better tolerated and were more efficacious than
desferrithiocin in animals, however, none was safe enough to proceed to the
clinical use. The discovery of a new chemical class of iron chelators: The
bis-hydroxyphenyltriazoles re-energized the search for a safe tridentate
chelator. The basic structure of this completely new chemical class of iron
chelators was discovered by a combination of rational design, intuition and
experience. More than forty derivatives of the triazole series were synthesized
at Novartis. These compounds were evaluated, together with more than 700
chelators from various chemical classes. Using vigorous selection criteria with a
focus on tolerability, the tridentate chelator
4-[(3,5-Bis-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-1,2,4)triazol-1-yl]-benzoic acid (ICL670) emerged
as an entity which best combined high oral potency and tolerability in animals.
ICL670 is presently being evaluated in the clinic.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867033457610 
PMID: 12678677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

