

296. Mol Brain. 2020 Jun 26;13(1):98. doi: 10.1186/s13041-020-00639-9.

Effects of interferon-alpha on hippocampal neurogenesis and behavior in common
marmosets.

Kaneko N(1)(2), Nakamura S(3), Sawamoto K(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Neurobiology, Institute of Brain 
Science, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 1 Kawasumi, 
Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 467-8601, Japan.
naokoka@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp.
(2)Division of Neural Development and Regeneration, National Institute for
Physiological Sciences, 5-1 Higashiyama, Myodaiji, Okazaki, Aichi, 444-8787,
Japan. naokoka@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Neurobiology, Institute of Brain 
Science, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 1 Kawasumi, 
Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 467-8601, Japan.
(4)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Neurobiology, Institute of Brain 
Science, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 1 Kawasumi, 
Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 467-8601, Japan.
sawamoto@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp.
(5)Division of Neural Development and Regeneration, National Institute for
Physiological Sciences, 5-1 Higashiyama, Myodaiji, Okazaki, Aichi, 444-8787,
Japan. sawamoto@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp.

In many mammalian species, the production of new neurons in the hippocampal
dentate gyrus continues throughout life. Previous studies using rodents suggest
that adult-born neurons are involved in memory and cognition tasks and mood
regulation. Interferon-alpha (IFNα), a proinflammatory cytokine used for the
treatment of chronic viral hepatitis and malignancies, frequently causes
depressive symptoms in patients and animals, including non-human primates. We
have previously demonstrated that chronic IFNα treatment decreases hippocampal
neurogenesis in mice. Here, we investigated the effects of four-week human
pegylated IFNα treatment on hippocampal neurogenesis and behavior in common
marmosets. Continuous monitoring of voluntary activity levels using an actigraphy
device suggested that adaptive ability is impaired in IFNα-treated animals.
Analyses of BrdU-labeled cells expressing a marker for immature or mature neurons
revealed a significant reduction in the number of new neurons in the hippocampus 
of IFNα-treated animals. These data indicate that chronic human IFNα treatment
causes behavioral changes and a decrease in hippocampal neurogenesis in common
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-020-00639-9 
PMCID: PMC7318457
PMID: 32590991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. J Anat. 2020 Nov;237(5):907-915. doi: 10.1111/joa.13250. Epub 2020 Jun 25.

Muscle-tendon arrangement and innervation pattern of the m. flexor digitorum
superficialis in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), squirrel monkey
(Saimiri sciureus) and spider monkey (Ateles sp.).

Emura K(1), Hirasaki E(2), Arakawa T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Health Care Sciences, Himeji Dokkyo University, Himeji, Japan.
(2)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Japan.
(3)Department of Rehabilitation Science, Kobe University Graduate School of
Health Sciences, Kobe, Japan.

The muscle-tendon arrangement of the m. flexor digitorum superficialis (FDS)
varies among different primate groups. Recent developmental investigations
revealed that the primordium of FDS emerges in the hand region first and
relocates to the forearm later. The relationship between the diverse
muscle-tendon arrangement and the characteristic developmental process of FDS is 
important for understanding the evolutionary changes of the FDS. Moreover, the
innervation pattern cannot go unremarked when discussing the muscle homology and 
evolution. We examined the muscle-tendon arrangement and intramuscular nerve
distribution of the FDS in three genera of Platyrrhini: three common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), two squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and two spider
monkeys (Ateles sp.). We observed that the FDS consisted of multiple muscle
bellies. The origin of the muscle bellies to digits II and V varied, whereas
muscle bellies to digits III and IV consistently originated from the medial
epicondyle. The muscle-tendon arrangement of the FDS differed among the three
genera owing to the different origins of muscle bellies to digits II and V. In
all the examined specimens, the muscle bellies to digits II and/or III were
innervated by the direct nerve branches from the median nerve. However, the
muscle bellies to digits IV and V never received direct nerve branches from the
median nerve. Nerve branches within the belly to digit III extended into the
belly to digit IV, and one nerve branch within the belly to digit IV extended
into the belly to digit V. These consistent nerve distribution patterns suggest
that different patterns of FDS muscle-tendon arrangement have changed from that
of a common ancestral condition. It is plausible that the diverse origins of
muscle bellies in the FDS are attributable to the difference in the destination
for the relocation of the muscle bellies during developmental processes.

© 2020 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.13250 
PMCID: PMC7542189 [Available on 2022-11-01]
PMID: 32584452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

