

2966. Biol Reprod. 2003 Jun;68(6):2092-9. Epub 2003 Jan 22.

Characterization of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 7 in reproductive
tissues of the marmoset monkey.

Husen B(1), Adamski J, Brüns A, Deluca D, Fuhrmann K, Möller G, Schwabe I,
Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, 37077 Göttingen,
Germany.

In contrast to the known rodent enzymes, the physiological significance of
17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 7 (17HSD7) and its presumed function in 
reproductive biology is not well understood in primates. As a first step, we
recently cloned the complete coding regions of human and marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) 17HSD7 (cj17HSD7). In the present work the complete cDNA of 
marmoset 17HSD1 (cj17HSD1), including the proximal promoter region, and a partial
sequence of marmoset aromatase (cjARO) were sequenced in order to compare the
expression of these estradiol synthesizing enzymes with that of 17HSD7 in a
primate model and to identify tissues where 17HSD7 might participate in the
pathway of estradiol synthesis. The gene structures of cj17HSD1 and cj17HSD7 were
determined and proved to be very similar to the human orthologues. Northern
hybridization showed that cjARO mRNA seems to be coexpressed preferably with
cj17HSD1 in placenta, whereas in other tissues it is expressed in parallel only
with cj17HSD7. Especially in corpora lutea, the cj17HSD7 transcript is detectable
throughout the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle and increases during pregnancy, 
in parallel with the transcript of aromatase. Results were confirmed by
immunoblots and immunohistochemistry using new polyclonal antisera directed
against cj17HSD7 and cjARO protein. The enzymatic conversion of estrone to
estradiol was assessed in marmoset corpora lutea. The pattern of coexpression
with aromatase supports the hypothesis that luteal 17HSD7 complements placental
17HSD1, ensuring continued estradiol synthesis throughout pregnancy in primates.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.102.012476 
PMID: 12606385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2967. Biol Reprod. 2003 Jul;69(1):75-80. Epub 2003 Feb 19.

A new subclass of the luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin receptor lacking
exon 10 messenger RNA in the New World monkey (Platyrrhini) lineage.

Gromoll J(1), Wistuba J, Terwort N, Godmann M, Müller T, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, University of Münster,
D-48129 Münster, Germany. gromolji@uni-muenster.de

The luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR) plays an essential role as a mediator of
LH and CG action during embryonic sexual differentiation and in gametogenesis. In
a hypogonadal male patient, we recently demonstrated that a genomic deletion of
exon 10, located in the hinge region of the extracellular domain, results in
discrimination of LH and hCG action. In the common marmoset (Calltithrix
jacchus), exon 10 of the LHR is naturally missing at the mRNA level. In order to 
investigate whether this is an isolated species-specific phenomenon, we performed
a phylogenetic screening, searching for the presence of LHR exon 10 mRNA in a
number of primate species representative for the major lineages of primate
evolution. The expressed LHR region encompassing exon 10 was amplified from
testicular tissue by RT-PCR, cloned, and sequenced. In addition, we performed
Southern blot analysis of the LHR of selected New World and Old World primates.
The results revealed that exon 10 mRNA is lacking in the complete New World
monkey (Platyrrhini) lineage but is present in both more primitive and more
advanced primates. However, exon 10 seems to be present at the genomic level,
arguing for a splicing failure possibly due to a genomic mutation or the lack of 
appropriate splicing factors. Considering that, in the human, LH is far less
active than hCG on the LHR lacking exon 10, we addressed the question whether the
existence of such a receptor has any consequences on the dual hormone LH/CG
system present in Platyrrhini. Using primers specific for the known marmoset CG
beta cDNA, we amplified the CG beta subunit cDNA from male common marmoset
pituitaries by RT-PCR, while LH beta could not be amplified, suggesting a
possible physiological role of pituitary CG in this species. In conclusion, we
demonstrated for the first time that the LH mRNA without exon10 is the natural
wild-type LHR in the Platyrrhini lineage. We propose that this LHR represents a
new subclass of receptors that should be named LHR type II. In addition, the high
expression of CG beta in the marmoset pituitary suggests a physiological role of 
CG in the reproductive function of these primates beyond pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.102.014902 
PMID: 12606382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

