

2974. Neuroscience. 2003;116(3):831-50.

The chemo- and somatotopic architecture of the Galago cuneate and gracile nuclei.

Strata F(1), Coq JO, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.

The pattern of peripheral nerve inputs into the dorsal column nuclei, cuneate and
gracile, was investigated in the prosimian Galago garnetti. The major findings
were, that there is a greater segregation of the inputs from the fingers/hand
within the cuneate compared with input form the toes/foot within the gracile. In 
both nuclei, cell clusters can be identified as cytochrome oxidase dense
blotches, reactive also for the activity-dependent enzyme nitric oxide synthase. 
In the cuneate, cell clusters were apparent as six main cytochrome oxidase/nitric
oxide synthase-reactive ovals arranged in a medial to lateral sequence. In
contrast in the gracile, a higher degree of parcellation was noted and several
cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches were distributed along the
rostrocaudal axis of the nucleus. This different architecture parallels
differences in the organization of the inputs from the hand and from the foot. In
the cuneate, cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to horseradish peroxydase labeled
terminals from the glabrous and hairy skin of digits d1 to d5 segregated in each 
of the five most lateral cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches.
Afferents from the thenar, palmar pads and hypothenar overlapped with those from 
digit 1, digit 2 to digit 4 and digit 5, respectively. Inputs from wrist arm and 
shoulder were segregated in the most medial blotch. In the gracile, multiple foci
of cholera toxin B subunit conjugated to horseradish peroxydase labeled terminals
were observed upon injections of single sites in the toes or plantar pads.
Although in multiple foci, inputs from different toes segregated from one another
as well. Terminals from the plantar pads appeared to converge on the same
cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide synthase blotches targeted by inputs from the
toes. In both the cuneate and the gracile, cytochrome oxidase/nitric oxide
synthase blotches also presented intense immunoreactivity for GABA, calbindin,
parvalbumin, and brain derived neurotrophic factor. Finally, in the cuneate the
cell cluster region presented similarities in prosimian galagos and four species 
of New World monkeys, whereas it appeared more differentiated and complex in the 
Old Word macaque monkeys. In conclusion, the different pattern of segregation of 
the inputs from the hand and from the foot can be related to the different
metabolic organization of the cuneate and of the gracile, respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00694-2 
PMID: 12573723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2975. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2002;509:185-203.

ICL670A: preclinical profile.

Nick H(1), Wong A, Acklin P, Faller B, Jin Y, Lattmann R, Sergejew T, Hauffe S,
Thomas H, Schnebli HP.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, 4002 Basel, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-0593-8_10 
PMID: 12572995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

