

2975. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2002;509:185-203.

ICL670A: preclinical profile.

Nick H(1), Wong A, Acklin P, Faller B, Jin Y, Lattmann R, Sergejew T, Hauffe S,
Thomas H, Schnebli HP.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, 4002 Basel, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-0593-8_10 
PMID: 12572995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2976. Gene. 2003 Jan 30;304:87-96.

Isolation of novel olfactory receptor genes in marmosets (Callithrix): insights
into pseudogene formation and evidence for functional degeneracy in non-human
primates.

Whinnett A(1), Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Nineteen olfactory receptor (OR) genes were isolated from three OR subfamilies in
two species of marmoset (Callithrix). Olfactory receptor 912-93 has high sequence
similarity among marmosets and between marmosets and humans, suggesting strong
conservation of function. All of the remaining seventeen OR genes identified from
subfamilies 3A and 1E were pseudogenes. Following pseudogene formation, marmoset 
OR genes in both 1E and 3A subfamilies underwent duplications, indel events and a
high rate of nucleotide substitution. These results provide a contrast to
previous studies, and show that in spite of the keen olfactory sense of
marmosets, they harbour many OR pseudogenes. A high rate of in vitro
recombination using Pfu polymerase but not Taq polymerase was confirmed. The
rapid molecular evolution of OR pseudogenes suggests that they do not provide a
useful source of sequence variation for conversion to intact OR genes over
evolutionary timescales. The overall pattern of OR evolution in marmosets is
comparable to the 'birth-and-death' model of gene family evolution. An unbiased
view on the evolutionary timing of the reduction of the functional olfactory
repertoire in humans must await more data.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(02)01182-4 
PMID: 12568718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

