

2976. Gene. 2003 Jan 30;304:87-96.

Isolation of novel olfactory receptor genes in marmosets (Callithrix): insights
into pseudogene formation and evidence for functional degeneracy in non-human
primates.

Whinnett A(1), Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Nineteen olfactory receptor (OR) genes were isolated from three OR subfamilies in
two species of marmoset (Callithrix). Olfactory receptor 912-93 has high sequence
similarity among marmosets and between marmosets and humans, suggesting strong
conservation of function. All of the remaining seventeen OR genes identified from
subfamilies 3A and 1E were pseudogenes. Following pseudogene formation, marmoset 
OR genes in both 1E and 3A subfamilies underwent duplications, indel events and a
high rate of nucleotide substitution. These results provide a contrast to
previous studies, and show that in spite of the keen olfactory sense of
marmosets, they harbour many OR pseudogenes. A high rate of in vitro
recombination using Pfu polymerase but not Taq polymerase was confirmed. The
rapid molecular evolution of OR pseudogenes suggests that they do not provide a
useful source of sequence variation for conversion to intact OR genes over
evolutionary timescales. The overall pattern of OR evolution in marmosets is
comparable to the 'birth-and-death' model of gene family evolution. An unbiased
view on the evolutionary timing of the reduction of the functional olfactory
repertoire in humans must await more data.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(02)01182-4 
PMID: 12568718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2977. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2002 Sep-Oct;73(5):240-51.

Mitochondrial COII gene sequences provide new insights into the phylogeny of
marmoset species groups (Callitrichidae, Primates).

Sena L(1), Vallinoto M, Sampaio I, Schneider H, Ferrari SF, Schneider MP.

Author information: 
(1)DNA Polymorphism Laboratory, Department of Genetics, Universidade Federal do
Pará, Belém, Brazil. sena@interconect.com.br

Mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase II (COII) gene sequences (549 base pairs) were
used to investigate the taxonomic relationships among 12 marmoset (Callithrix,
Cebuella and Mico) taxa. A large number of substitutions were found in the third 
base codon positions, providing a strong phylogenetic signal in a gene coding a
conserved protein. Despite the significant affinity between the 2 Amazonian
genera Cebuella and Mico, found in recent molecular studies, the analysis
presented here did not resolve convincingly the phylogenetic relationships
between the 3 genera. Mico nevertheless formed 3 distinct clades, reflecting a
basic division of species groups based on geographic distribution (east or west
of the Rio Tapajós) rather than morphology (presence or absence of auricular
hair). This supports the taxonomic distinction of the allopatric emiliae forms.
In Callithrix, Callithrix aurita forms a distinct clade, but the remaining
morphotypes form a somewhat contradictory cluster, possibly resulting from an
extremely rapid radiation.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000067456 
PMID: 12566758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

