

2979. J Physiol. 2003 Feb 1;546(Pt 3):903-19.

Centre and surround responses of marmoset lateral geniculate neurones at
different temporal frequencies.

Kilavik BE(1), Silveira LC, Kremers J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of Tübingen Eye Hospital,
Röntgenweg 11, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.

The responses of marmoset lateral geniculate neurones to stimuli that were
composed of a sinusoidally modulating centre stimulus and a surround that was
modulated in counterphase were measured. The size of the stimulus centre was
varied. These measurements were repeated at different temporal frequencies
between 1 and 30 Hz. The response amplitudes and phases depended in a
characteristic manner on the stimulus centre size. The response behaviour could
be modelled by assuming Gaussian responsivity profiles of the cells' receptive
field (RF) centres and surrounds and a phase delay in the RF surround responses, 
relative to the centre, enabling the description of RF centre and surround
response characteristics. We found that the RF centre-to-surround phase
difference increased linearly with increasing temporal frequency, indicating a
constant delay difference of about 4.5 to 6 ms. A linear model, including
low-pass filters, a lead lag stage and a delay, was used to describe the mean RF 
centre and surround responses. The separate RF centre and surround responses were
less band pass than the full receptive field responses of the cells. The linear
model provided less satisfactory fits to M-cell responses than to those of
P-cells, indicating additional nonlinearities.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2002.027748 
PMCID: PMC2342578
PMID: 12563014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2980. Anal Sci. 2003 Jan;19(1):67-71.

In vivo imaging of brain dopaminergic neurotransmission system in small animals
with high-resolution single photon emission computed tomography.

Saji H(1), Iida Y, Kawashima H, Ogawa M, Kitamura Y, Mukai T, Shimazu S, Yoneda
F.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyoto University, Yoshida,
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. hsaji@pharm.kyoto-u.ac.jp

High-resolution single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) provides a
unique capability to image the biodistribution of radiolabeled molecules in small
laboratory animals. Thus, we applied the high-resolution SPECT to in vivo imaging
of the brain dopaminergic neurotransmission system in common marmosets using two 
radiolabeled ligands, [123I]2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane
(beta-CIT) as a dopamine transporter (DAT) ligand and [123I]iodobenzamide (IBZM) 
as a dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) ligand. Specific images of the striatum, a region
with a high density of dopaminergic synapses, were obtained at 240 min and 60 min
after injection of [123I]beta-CIT and [123I]IBZM, respectively. Furthermore, a
significantly low accumulation of [123I]beta-CIT in the striatum was observed in 
MPTP-treated animals compared with results for a control group, and a similar
accumulation in the control group was observed with the pretreatment of deprenyl 
in the MPTP-treated animals. However, the striatal accumulation of [123I]IBZM
showed no changes among the control, MPTP-treated, and deprenyl-MPTP-treated
groups. These SPECT imaging results agreed well with those of DA concentration
and motor behavior. Since MPTP destroys nigrostriatal dopamine nerves and
produces irreversible neurodegeneration associated with Parkinsonian syndrome,
SPECT imaging data in this study demonstrated that deprenyl shows its
neuroprotective effect on Parkinsonism by protecting against the destruction of
presynaptic dopamine neurons.

DOI: 10.2116/analsci.19.67 
PMID: 12558026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

