

2983. Arch Virol. 2003 Jan;148(1):29-44.

Host range of poliovirus is restricted to simians because of a rapid sequence
change of the poliovirus receptor gene during evolution.

Ida-Hosonuma M(1), Sasaki Y, Toyoda H, Nomoto A, Gotoh O, Yonekawa H, Koike S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for
Neuroscience, Tokyo, Japan.

The host range of most poliovirus (PV) strains is restricted to simians. This
host range specificity is believed to be determined by the interaction between PV
and its receptor molecule. To elucidate the molecular basis of this
species-specific infection of PV, we cloned orthologs of the PV receptor (PVR)
gene ( pvr) as well as those of PV receptor-related genes 1 and 2 ( prr1 and
prr2) from various mammalian species. These three genes are widely present in
mammalian genomes including those of non-susceptible species. Comparison of the
deduced amino acid sequences of PVR orthologs revealed that the NH(2)-terminal
immunoglobulin-like domain (domain 1), which is the virus binding site in the
human PVR, is highly variable among species, whereas that of PRR1 is highly
conserved. Domain 1 of the PVR orthologs for the ring-tailed lemur and rabbit,
which are not susceptible to PV, show only 51 and 61% amino acid sequence
identity to that of human PVR, respectively. Chimeric PVR proteins that have the 
domain 1 of the ring-tailed lemur and rabbit PVRs failed to serve as receptors
for PV. These results suggest that rapid changes in the domain 1 sequence during 
mammalian evolution determined the host range restriction of PV.

DOI: 10.1007/s00705-002-0910-7 
PMID: 12536294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2984. Brain Res. 2003 Jan 24;961(1):153-8.

Orientation mosaic in barn owl's visual Wulst revealed by optical imaging:
comparison with cat and monkey striate and extra-striate areas.

Liu GB(1), Pettigrew JD.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, School of Biomedical Sciences, The 
University of Queensland, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Qld 4067, Australia.
g.liu@mailbox.uq.edu.au

Using the technique of intrinsic signal optical imaging, orientation preference
maps were obtained from the Wulst of the barn owl in the area that represents
central vision, and from the visual cortices (V1 and V2) of cat and marmoset
monkey. Iso-orientation domains in barn owl's visual Wulst were patch-like
structures with an inter-patch distance of approximately 0.9 mm, arranged in a
pinwheel-like manner around singularity points. The size of the iso-orientation
domains in barn owl was larger than those found in area V1, but comparable to
those found in area V2, of cat and monkey. Superficial layers of the owl visual
Wulst may be equivalent to extra-striate visual areas of primates and carnivores,
as already suggested by electrophysiologists discussing the much increased radial
dimensions of the Wulst compared with neocortex in mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(02)03747-2 
PMID: 12535788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

