

2986. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2002 Nov;59(11):1851-71.

Myelin sheaths: glycoproteins involved in their formation, maintenance and
degeneration.

Quarles RH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Myelin and Brain Development Section, Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular
Neurobiology, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Room 2
A28, Building 49, MSC 4440, 49 Convent Drive, NIH, Bethesda Maryland 20892, USA. 
quarlesr@ninds.nih.gov

Myelin sheaths are formed around axons by extending, biochemically modifying and 
spiraling plasma membranes of Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system
(PNS) and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS). Because
glycoproteins are prominent components of plasma membranes, it is not surprising 
that they have important roles in the formation, maintenance and degeneration of 
myelin sheaths. The emphasis in this review is on four integral membrane
glycoproteins. Two of them, protein zero (P0) and peripheral myelin protein-22
(PMP-22), are components of compact PNS myelin. The other two are preferentially 
localized in membranes of sheaths that are distinct from compact myelin. One is
the myelin-associated glycoprotein, which is localized at the inside of sheaths
where it functions in glia-axon interactions in both the PNS and CNS. The other
is the myelin-oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, which is preferentially localized on 
the outside of CNS myelin sheaths and appears to be an important target antigen
in autoimmune demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00012510 
PMID: 12530518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2987. Am J Primatol. 2003 Jan;59(1):21-8.

Degree of social contact affects the emission of food calls in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Vitale A(1), Zanzoni M, Queyras A, Chiarotti F.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Comparative Psychology, Laboratorio di Fisiopatologia di Organo e
di Sistema, Istituto Superiore di Sanit√†, Rome, Italy. vitale@iss.it

The aim of this study was to investigate whether the emission of food calls in
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) is influenced by different social contexts.
Food calls are emitted by this species only in the presence of preferred food. If
these calls have any communicative function, it may be that individuals produce
food calls in order to call family mates toward the food source. If this is the
case, the number of calls produced should vary in accordance with the number of
family mates present at the moment of the discovery of the food, i.e., the fewer 
family mates nearby, the more food calls are emitted. This hypothesis was tested 
with five pairs of common marmosets, by recording the number of food calls
emitted in four experimental conditions: 1). isolation: completely isolated from 
the family mates; 2). visual isolation: separated by a wooden panel from the
family mates; 3). visual contact: separated by a wire-mesh from the family mates;
and 4). physical interaction: together with the family mates. The results show
that the proportion of intervals during which food calls were produced by the
pairs was significantly different in the four experimental conditions. It
decreased from the isolation and visual isolation condition, through the visual
contact condition, reaching the lowest value in the physical interaction
condition. The variation observed in the proportion of intervals during which
food calls were emitted, in relation to different social contexts, is an
indication in favor of the communicative function of this vocalization.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.10060 
PMID: 12526036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

