

2987. Am J Primatol. 2003 Jan;59(1):21-8.

Degree of social contact affects the emission of food calls in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Vitale A(1), Zanzoni M, Queyras A, Chiarotti F.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Comparative Psychology, Laboratorio di Fisiopatologia di Organo e
di Sistema, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy. vitale@iss.it

The aim of this study was to investigate whether the emission of food calls in
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) is influenced by different social contexts.
Food calls are emitted by this species only in the presence of preferred food. If
these calls have any communicative function, it may be that individuals produce
food calls in order to call family mates toward the food source. If this is the
case, the number of calls produced should vary in accordance with the number of
family mates present at the moment of the discovery of the food, i.e., the fewer 
family mates nearby, the more food calls are emitted. This hypothesis was tested 
with five pairs of common marmosets, by recording the number of food calls
emitted in four experimental conditions: 1). isolation: completely isolated from 
the family mates; 2). visual isolation: separated by a wooden panel from the
family mates; 3). visual contact: separated by a wire-mesh from the family mates;
and 4). physical interaction: together with the family mates. The results show
that the proportion of intervals during which food calls were produced by the
pairs was significantly different in the four experimental conditions. It
decreased from the isolation and visual isolation condition, through the visual
contact condition, reaching the lowest value in the physical interaction
condition. The variation observed in the proportion of intervals during which
food calls were emitted, in relation to different social contexts, is an
indication in favor of the communicative function of this vocalization.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.10060 
PMID: 12526036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2988. Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Jan 17;459(2-3):231-7.

Motor effects of a dopamine stabilizer (GMC1111) in primate models of Parkinson
and hemiparkinsonism.

Klintenberg R(1), Arts J, Jongsma M, Wikström H, Gunne L, Andrén PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, PO Box 591,
Biomedicum, SE-75124, Uppsala, Sweden.

The effects on motor behavior of a new potential dopamine stabilizer:
2-amino-6-(N,N-di-n-propylamino)thiazolo[4,5-f]indan (GMC1111) were investigated 
in common marmosets with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions within the median forebrain
bundle (12 unilateral, 6 bilateral). GMC1111 was administered orally or
subcutaneously (s.c.) to unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned monkeys, either 
alone or together with s.c. injections of apomorphine (0.2 mg/kg) and the effect 
on rotational behavior was examined. GMC1111 (0.03-3.0 mg/kg) alone, orally or
s.c., did not induce rotational behavior. When apomorphine and GMC1111 were
injected simultaneously, rotations were nearly abolished in three monkeys with a 
baseline apomorphine-induced rotation rate below 13/min, whereas GMC1111 did not 
modify the rotations in three high-rotating animals (>17/min). Oral
administration of GMC1111 (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg) abolished the apomorphine-induced
rotations in another six unilaterally dopamine-denervated monkeys, indicating a
good oral bioavailability. A low dose of GMC1111 (0.3 mg/kg) administered s.c. to
marmosets with bilateral nigrostriatal lesions produced a reduction of Parkinson 
symptoms of approximately the same degree as with levodopa/benserazide (15/3.75
mg/kg), while higher doses of GMC1111 were less effective. When
levodopa/benserazide was administered together with various doses of GMC1111
(0.3-3.0 mg/kg), the levodopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesias were reduced with the
highest dose of GMC1111 (3 mg/kg). Taken together, GMC1111 modifies dopaminergic 
activity in a normalizing direction. Parkinson symptoms, as well as
levodopa-induced dyskinesias are both reduced. This suggests the arrival of
another member of the new dopamine stabilizer family.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(02)02817-0 
PMID: 12524151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

