

2988. Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Jan 17;459(2-3):231-7.

Motor effects of a dopamine stabilizer (GMC1111) in primate models of Parkinson
and hemiparkinsonism.

Klintenberg R(1), Arts J, Jongsma M, Wikström H, Gunne L, Andrén PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, PO Box 591,
Biomedicum, SE-75124, Uppsala, Sweden.

The effects on motor behavior of a new potential dopamine stabilizer:
2-amino-6-(N,N-di-n-propylamino)thiazolo[4,5-f]indan (GMC1111) were investigated 
in common marmosets with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions within the median forebrain
bundle (12 unilateral, 6 bilateral). GMC1111 was administered orally or
subcutaneously (s.c.) to unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned monkeys, either 
alone or together with s.c. injections of apomorphine (0.2 mg/kg) and the effect 
on rotational behavior was examined. GMC1111 (0.03-3.0 mg/kg) alone, orally or
s.c., did not induce rotational behavior. When apomorphine and GMC1111 were
injected simultaneously, rotations were nearly abolished in three monkeys with a 
baseline apomorphine-induced rotation rate below 13/min, whereas GMC1111 did not 
modify the rotations in three high-rotating animals (>17/min). Oral
administration of GMC1111 (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg) abolished the apomorphine-induced
rotations in another six unilaterally dopamine-denervated monkeys, indicating a
good oral bioavailability. A low dose of GMC1111 (0.3 mg/kg) administered s.c. to
marmosets with bilateral nigrostriatal lesions produced a reduction of Parkinson 
symptoms of approximately the same degree as with levodopa/benserazide (15/3.75
mg/kg), while higher doses of GMC1111 were less effective. When
levodopa/benserazide was administered together with various doses of GMC1111
(0.3-3.0 mg/kg), the levodopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesias were reduced with the
highest dose of GMC1111 (3 mg/kg). Taken together, GMC1111 modifies dopaminergic 
activity in a normalizing direction. Parkinson symptoms, as well as
levodopa-induced dyskinesias are both reduced. This suggests the arrival of
another member of the new dopamine stabilizer family.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(02)02817-0 
PMID: 12524151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2989. J Med Primatol. 2002 Dec;31(6):350-5.

Congenitally caused fused labia in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Isachenko EF(1), Nayudu PL, Isachenko VV, Nawroth F, Michelmann HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center Goettingen, Germany.
jeniaisachenko@yahoo.de

In this paper, the occurrence of an external genital abnormality in female
marmoset monkeys (fused labia) is discussed. This malformation was detected, for 
the first time, in a group of animals at the German Primate Center (GPC),
Goettingen. The malformed vulva was completely sealed except for an opening of
1.5-2.5 mm around the urethra sufficient for urination. Because of this defect
the animals were not able to copulate. As a consequence, the affected females
were functionally infertile although they had a normal genital tract and a
regular cycle. This vulvar abnormality was found in 12 females, offspring of 10
pairs in which either one or both came to the German Primate Center from two
genetically related colonies in Munich, Germany, and one colony in Basel,
Switzerland. The abnormality appeared to be recessive and inheritable from either
parent. In pairs in which both animals were from one of the mentioned colonies,
45% of the female offspring were affected. In pairs where only one partner came
from these colonies, 26% of female offspring had the malformation. These results 
indicate that avoidance of inbreeding, which is frequently performed in primate
colonies, may reduce, but not eliminate the expression of abnormalities of
genetic origin. Therefore selective breeding is required, and, in colonies where 
these recessive mutations are widespread, the development of genetic screening
tests would be advantageous.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2002.t01-1-02002.x 
PMID: 12519214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

