

2992. Vis Neurosci. 2002 Jul-Aug;19(4):453-65.

Expression and distribution of ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits on parasol 
ganglion cells in the primate retina.

Lin B(1), Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The response properties of postreceptoral sensory neurones are determined by the 
properties of their input neurones, by intrinsic membrane properties, and by the 
properties of neurotransmitter receptors on the soma and dendritic tree. We
previously showed that inhibitory neurotransmitter (GABA(A) and glycine)
receptors on a well-characterised sensory neurone, the parasol ganglion cell in
the primate retina, are segregated towards the distal part of the dendritic tree.
Here we studied the distribution of excitatory ionotropic glutamate receptor
subunits on the dendrites of parasol cells in the retina of a New World monkey,
the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Individual ganglion cells were intracellularly 
injected in an in vitro retinal wholemount preparation. Ionotropic glutamate
receptor subunits. including AMPA (GluR1-4), kainate (GluR6/7), NMDA (NR1C2')
subunits, and the orphan receptors delta1 and delta2 were visualized with
immunocytochemical methods. Immunoreactive puncta that colocalized with the
dendrites of ganglion cells were analyzed using standard and/or confocal light
microscopy. Colocalized puncta were present on parasol dendrites for all subunits
studied, but their density was much lower (approximately 1/5) than previously
reported for inhibitory (GABA and glycine) receptors. Segregation of the
glutamate receptor clusters (GluR1, GluR6/7 subunits) to the peripheral dendrites
was less marked than that shown for GABA and glycine receptor clusters. No sign
of segregation of colocalized puncta to the peripheral part of the dendritic
field was seen with antibodies to the GluR2, GluR2/3, GluR4, delta1/2, or NR1C2' 
subunits. The results suggest that although there is diverse expression of
glutamate receptor subtypes, the glutamatergic synapses form only a small
proportion of the total synaptic input to primate ganglion cells. They further
suggest that the processes which control distribution of excitatory and
inhibitory synapses on the dendritic field of ganglion cells are, at least to
some extent, independent.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523802194077 
PMID: 12511078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2993. Vis Neurosci. 2002 Sep-Oct;19(5):583-92.

Feedback from V1 and inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field
modulates the responses of neurons in the primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Webb BS(1), Tinsley CJ, Barraclough NE, Easton A, Parker A, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham,
NG7 2RD, United Kingdom. bsw@psychology.nottingham.ac.uk

It is well established that the responses of neurons in the lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) can be modulated by feedback from visual cortex, but it is still
unclear how cortico-geniculate afferents regulate the flow of visual information 
to the cortex in the primate. Here we report the effects, on the gain of LGN
neurons, of differentially stimulating the extraclassical receptive field, with
feedback from the striate cortex intact or inactivated in the marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus. A horizontally oriented grating of optimal size, spatial
frequency, and temporal frequency was presented to the classical receptive field.
The grating varied in contrast (range: 0-1) from trial to trial, and was
presented alone, or surrounded by a grating of the same or orthogonal
orientation, contained within either a larger annular field, or flanks oriented
either horizontally or vertically. V1 was ablated to inactivate
cortico-geniculate feedback. The maximum firing rate of LGN neurons was greater
with V1 intact, but was reduced by visually stimulating beyond the classical
receptive field. Large horizontal or vertical annular gratings were most
effective in reducing the maximum firing rate of LGN neurons. Magnocellular
neurons were most susceptible to this inhibition from beyond the classical
receptive field. Extraclassical inhibition was less effective with V1 ablated. We
conclude that inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field reduces the
excitatory influence of V1 in the LGN. The net balance between cortico-geniculate
excitation and inhibition from beyond the classical receptive field is one
mechanism by which signals relayed from the retina to V1 are controlled.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523802195046 
PMID: 12507325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

