

2995. Lakartidningen. 2002 Nov 7;99(45):4498-9.

[The first open heart surgery--a cool story. Winter sleep of marmosets inspired
the breakthrough].

[Article in Swedish]

Olin C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Thorax-kärlkliniken, Hjärtcentrum, Universitetssjukhuset, Linköping.


PMID: 12469530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2996. Mov Disord. 2002 Nov;17(6):1312-7.

Beginning-of-dose and rebound worsening in MPTP-treated common marmosets treated 
with levodopa.

Kuoppamäki M(1), Al-Barghouthy G, Jackson M, Smith L, Zeng BY, Quinn N, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, United
Kingdom.

A wide range of motor fluctuations develop in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients
after prolonged levodopa (L-dopa) treatment, but few experimental models exist in
which these can be investigated. We report on motor fluctuations occurring in
MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) treated repeatedly with
L-dopa. All animals showed an improvement in motor function in response to
L-dopa, and rapidly developed peak-dose dyskinesia. During the period of L-dopa
action, brief periods of immobility were occasionally observed. After acute
L-dopa challenge, animals exhibited a worsening of motor function before
improvement, and after the beneficial response to L-dopa declined, motor
performance showed rebound worsening to below-baseline values. Before L-dopa
challenge and during wearing-off and rebound worsening, leg dystonias were
observed. Although these findings cannot necessarily be generalized to all
MPTP-treated nonhuman primates, they demonstrate that MPTP-treated marmosets show
a range of different motor fluctuations analogous to those seen in PD patients
chronically treated with L-dopa. Therefore,
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated primates can provide 
a model in which the pathophysiology of treatment complications can be
investigated.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10263 
PMID: 12465074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

