

2996. Mov Disord. 2002 Nov;17(6):1312-7.

Beginning-of-dose and rebound worsening in MPTP-treated common marmosets treated 
with levodopa.

Kuoppam√§ki M(1), Al-Barghouthy G, Jackson M, Smith L, Zeng BY, Quinn N, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, United
Kingdom.

A wide range of motor fluctuations develop in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients
after prolonged levodopa (L-dopa) treatment, but few experimental models exist in
which these can be investigated. We report on motor fluctuations occurring in
MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) treated repeatedly with
L-dopa. All animals showed an improvement in motor function in response to
L-dopa, and rapidly developed peak-dose dyskinesia. During the period of L-dopa
action, brief periods of immobility were occasionally observed. After acute
L-dopa challenge, animals exhibited a worsening of motor function before
improvement, and after the beneficial response to L-dopa declined, motor
performance showed rebound worsening to below-baseline values. Before L-dopa
challenge and during wearing-off and rebound worsening, leg dystonias were
observed. Although these findings cannot necessarily be generalized to all
MPTP-treated nonhuman primates, they demonstrate that MPTP-treated marmosets show
a range of different motor fluctuations analogous to those seen in PD patients
chronically treated with L-dopa. Therefore,
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated primates can provide 
a model in which the pathophysiology of treatment complications can be
investigated.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10263 
PMID: 12465074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2997. Mov Disord. 2002 Nov;17(6):1180-7.

Stimulation of cannabinoid receptors reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the
MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Fox SH(1), Henry B, Hill M, Crossman A, Brotchie J.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, Division of Neuroscience, School of
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester, United
Kingdom. shfox@hotmail.com

Long-term treatment with levodopa in Parkinson's disease results in the
development of motor fluctuations, including reduced duration of antiparkinsonian
action and involuntary movements, i.e., levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Cannabinoid 
receptors are concentrated in the basal ganglia, and stimulation of cannabinoid
receptors can increase gamma-aminobutyric acid transmission in the lateral
segment of globus pallidus and reduce glutamate release in the striatum. We thus 
tested the hypothesis that the cannabinoid receptor agonist nabilone (0.01, 0.03,
and 0.10 mg/kg) would alleviate levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) -lesioned
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Coadministration of nabilone (0.1 mg/kg)
with levodopa was associated with significantly less total dyskinesia (dyskinesia
score, 12; range, 6-17; primate dyskinesia rating scale) than levodopa alone (22;
range, 14-23; P < 0.05). This effect was more marked during the onset period
(0-20 minutes post levodopa). There was no reduction in the antiparkinsonian
action of levodopa. Furthermore, the intermediate dose of nabilone used (0.03
mg/kg) increased the duration of antiparkinsonian action of levodopa by 76%.
Thus, cannabinoid receptor agonists may be useful in the treatment of motor
complications in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10289 
PMID: 12465055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

