

2997. Mov Disord. 2002 Nov;17(6):1180-7.

Stimulation of cannabinoid receptors reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the
MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Fox SH(1), Henry B, Hill M, Crossman A, Brotchie J.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, Division of Neuroscience, School of
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester, United
Kingdom. shfox@hotmail.com

Long-term treatment with levodopa in Parkinson's disease results in the
development of motor fluctuations, including reduced duration of antiparkinsonian
action and involuntary movements, i.e., levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Cannabinoid 
receptors are concentrated in the basal ganglia, and stimulation of cannabinoid
receptors can increase gamma-aminobutyric acid transmission in the lateral
segment of globus pallidus and reduce glutamate release in the striatum. We thus 
tested the hypothesis that the cannabinoid receptor agonist nabilone (0.01, 0.03,
and 0.10 mg/kg) would alleviate levodopa-induced dyskinesia in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) -lesioned
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Coadministration of nabilone (0.1 mg/kg)
with levodopa was associated with significantly less total dyskinesia (dyskinesia
score, 12; range, 6-17; primate dyskinesia rating scale) than levodopa alone (22;
range, 14-23; P < 0.05). This effect was more marked during the onset period
(0-20 minutes post levodopa). There was no reduction in the antiparkinsonian
action of levodopa. Furthermore, the intermediate dose of nabilone used (0.03
mg/kg) increased the duration of antiparkinsonian action of levodopa by 76%.
Thus, cannabinoid receptor agonists may be useful in the treatment of motor
complications in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10289 
PMID: 12465055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2998. Biol Psychiatry. 2002 Dec 1;52(11):1037-46.

Repeated parental deprivation in the infant common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, 
primates) and analysis of its effects on early development.

Dettling AC(1), Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Behavioural Neurobiology, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology, Zurich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: We describe a successful demonstration that repeated early
deprivation of parental care (ED), as used to study effects of early life stress 
in rats, can be performed in a primate and that it constitutes an early life
stressor.
METHODS: Seven breeding pairs of marmoset monkeys each provided control twins
(CON) and twins that were subjected to ED for 30-120 min/day on postnatal days
(PND) 2-28. Urine samples were obtained to monitor the acute effect of ED on
cortisol and catecholamine levels. Behavior samples were obtained in the home
cage to monitor the effects of ED on infant and infant-parent behavior.
RESULTS: Early deprivation of parental care caused acute increases in cortisol,
epinephrine, and norepinephrine. At PND 28, basal cortisol was reduced in ED
compared with CON infants, and ED infants were smaller than CON infants. Early
deprivation infants tended to spend more time in the suckling position than did
CON. Early deprivation infants demonstrated more distress vocalization than CON
infants, even though the parental care they received in the home cage was
similar. Early deprivation infants tended to play less socially than did CON.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that a repeated
early life stressor of the type developed in rats can also be applied to a
primate species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-3223(02)01460-9 
PMID: 12460687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

