

30. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2021 Dec 13;15(12):e0010016. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0010016. eCollection 2021 Dec.

A systematic review and meta-analysis of the potential non-human animal
reservoirs and arthropod vectors of the Mayaro virus.

Celone M(1), Okech B(1), Han BA(2), Forshey BM(3), Anyamba A(4), Dunford J(1),
Rutherford G(5), Mita-Mendoza NK(6), Estallo EL(7), Khouri R(8), de Siqueira
IC(8), Pollett S(9)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, F. Edward Hébert School 
of Medicine, Department of Preventive Medicine & Biostatistics, Bethesda,
Maryland, United States of America.
(2)Cary Institute of Ecosystem Studies, Millbrook, New York, United States of
America.
(3)Armed Forces Health Surveillance Division, Silver Spring, Maryland, United
States of America.
(4)University Space Research Association & NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center,
Biospheric Sciences Laboratory, Greenbelt, Maryland, United States of America.
(5)Institute for Global Health Sciences, University of California, San Francisco,
San Francisco, California, United States of America.
(6)New York State Department of Health, New Rochelle, New York, United States of 
America.
(7)Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas y Tecnológicas (IIByT)
CONICET-Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Centro de Investigaciones Entomológicas 
de Córdoba, Córdoba, Argentina.
(8)Instituto Gonçalo Moniz-Fiocruz, R. Waldemar Falcão, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
(9)Infectious Disease Clinical Research Program, Department of Preventive
Medicine and Biostatistics, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences,
Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America.
(10)Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, Inc.,
Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America.

Improving our understanding of Mayaro virus (MAYV) ecology is critical to guide
surveillance and risk assessment. We conducted a PRISMA-adherent systematic
review of the published and grey literature to identify potential arthropod
vectors and non-human animal reservoirs of MAYV. We searched PubMed/MEDLINE,
Embase, Web of Science, SciELO and grey-literature sources including PAHO
databases and dissertation repositories. Studies were included if they assessed
MAYV virological/immunological measured occurrence in field-caught, domestic, or 
sentinel animals or in field-caught arthropods. We conducted an animal
seroprevalence meta-analysis using a random effects model. We compiled granular
georeferenced maps of non-human MAYV occurrence and graded the quality of the
studies using a customized framework. Overall, 57 studies were eligible out of
1523 screened, published between the years 1961 and 2020. Seventeen studies
reported MAYV positivity in wild mammals, birds, or reptiles and five studies
reported MAYV positivity in domestic animals. MAYV positivity was reported in 12 
orders of wild-caught vertebrates, most frequently in the orders Charadriiformes 
and Primate. Sixteen studies detected MAYV in wild-caught mosquito genera
including Haemagogus, Aedes, Culex, Psorophora, Coquillettidia, and Sabethes.
Vertebrate animals or arthropods with MAYV were detected in Brazil, Panama, Peru,
French Guiana, Colombia, Trinidad, Venezuela, Argentina, and Paraguay. Among
non-human vertebrates, the Primate order had the highest pooled seroprevalence at
13.1% (95% CI: 4.3-25.1%). From the three most studied primate genera we found
the highest seroprevalence was in Alouatta (32.2%, 95% CI: 0.0-79.2%), followed
by Callithrix (17.8%, 95% CI: 8.6-28.5%), and Cebus/Sapajus (3.7%, 95% CI:
0.0-11.1%). We further found that MAYV occurs in a wide range of vectors beyond
Haemagogus spp. The quality of evidence behind these findings was variable and
prompts calls for standardization of reporting of arbovirus occurrence. These
findings support further risk emergence prediction, guide field surveillance
efforts, and prompt further in-vivo studies to better define the ecological
drivers of MAYV maintenance and potential for emergence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0010016 
PMCID: PMC8699665
PMID: 34898602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


31. Aging Pathobiol Ther. 2021;3(1):14-16. doi: 10.31491/apt.2021.03.052.

Hepatic steatosis, a lesion reported in captive aged common marmosets.

Franco-Mahecha OL(1), Carrasco SE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Hepatic steatosis, also known as fatty liver, is a spontaneous lesion caused by
the abnormal accumulation of triglycerides within hepatocytes that has been
described in different laboratory-housed nonhuman primate species. Aging is
considered a risk factor in the progression of this lesion in humans and captive 
rhesus macaques. Hepatic steatosis has been reported in sexually mature adult and
aged-adult captive common marmosets. Macroscopic changes in the liver may be
evident in advanced stages of this condition and are characterized by
hepatomegaly with multifocal to coalescing to regionally extensive pale-tan to
yellow, soft foci throughout the hepatic lobes. Biochemical abnormalities in
these cases include significantly increased levels in triglycerides, insulin, and
γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT). Definitive diagnosis is by histopathology and
demonstration of lipid accumulation within hepatocytes. Histopathology is
characterized by large coalescing areas of periacinar to periportal
microvesicular steatosis mixed with clusters of macrovesicular steatosis, and
variable degrees of lobular inflammation. Vacuolated hepatocytes containing
intracytoplasmic lipid material is demonstrated by positive staining to Sudan IV 
and/or Oil red-O.

DOI: 10.31491/apt.2021.03.052 
PMCID: PMC8654022
PMID: 34888546 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare no
conflict of interest.

