

3006. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2002 Dec;303(3):952-8.

Dopamine, but not norepinephrine or serotonin, reuptake inhibition reverses motor
deficits in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated primates.

Hansard MJ(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Cheetham SC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's, and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Monoamine reuptake inhibitors that do not discriminate between the transporters
for dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) 
can reverse locomotor deficits and motor disability in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets. DA 
reuptake inhibition is presumed to be primarily responsible, but the role played 
by inhibition of NE and 5-HT reuptake is unknown. We now evaluate the efficacy of
a range of monoamine reuptake inhibitors either alone or in combination in
MPTP-treated common marmosets to determine the actions required for effective
antiparkinsonian activity. Monoamine reuptake inhibitors not discriminating
between the DA, NE, and 5-HT transporters
[1-[1-(3,4-dichlororphenyl)cyclobutyl]-2-(3-diaminethylaminopropylthio)ethanone
monocitrate (BTS 74 398) and nomifensine] reversed locomotor deficits and motor
disability in MPTP-treated marmosets but bupropion was without effect. The
selective DA reuptake inhibitor
1-(2-(bis-(4-fluorophenyl)-methoxy)ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl) piperazine)
dihydrochloride (GBR 12909) also reversed these motor deficits. The relative
efficacy of the compounds (BTS 74 398 > GBR 12909 > nomifensine >> bupropion)
paralleled their potency in inhibiting DA uptake in vitro and in vivo. In
contrast, the selective NE reuptake inhibitor nisoxetine and the 5-HT reuptake
inhibitor sertraline administered alone failed to improve motor function and
tended to worsen the deficits. Coadministration of nisoxetine attenuated the
improvement in motor deficits produced by GBR 12909. Coadministration of
sertraline also abolished the reversal of motor deficits produced by GBR 12909.
Coadministration of both sertraline and nisoxetine similarly abolished the
improvement of motor deficits produced by GBR 12909. Molecules possessing potent 
DA reuptake inhibitory activity may be useful in the treatment of the motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease. In contrast, there seems to be no role for NE or
5-HT reuptake inhibitors, and they may impair antiparkinsonian activity mediated 
through dopaminergic mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.102.039743 
PMID: 12438514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3007. Chromosoma. 2002 Nov;111(4):267-72. Epub 2002 Sep 5.

Evolutionary history of chromosome 10 in primates.

Carbone L(1), Ventura M, Tempesta S, Rocchi M, Archidiacono N.

Author information: 
(1)Sezione di Genetica, DAPEG, Via Amendola 165/A 70126 Bari, Italy.

We have tracked the evolutionary history of chromosomes homologous to HSA10
(PHYL-10) in primates using appropriate panels of PCP, YAC, and BAC probes. This 
approach allowed us to delineate more precisely the PHYL-10 constitution in the
ancestor of catarrhine, platyrrhine, and prosimians. The results suggest that (i)
in the ancestor of prosimians PHYL-10 was organized in two separate PHYL-10p and 
PHYL-10q chromosomes; (ii) in the progenitor of New World monkeys PHYL-10p was a 
separate chromosome, while PHYL-10q was associated with a chromosome homologous
to HSA16; (iii) in the ancestor of Old World monkeys PHYL-10 was a unique
chromosome with a marker order corresponding to the orang form. We have also
analyzed the cat, chosen as an outgroup for its very conserved karyotype. In
agreement with published data our experiments show that the PHYL-10 in cat is
structured in two blocks, PHYL-10p and PHYL-10q, both as part of larger
chromosomes. The overall data indicate that, contrary to common opinion, PHYL-10p
and PHYL-10q were distinct chromosomes in the primate ancestor. Analysis of the
Saimiri sciureus (SSC) PHYL-10q marker order showed that it was isosequential
with the Callithrix jacchus PHYL-10q, as well as with the PHYL-10q platyrrhine
ancestral form. The SSC centromere, nevertheless, was located in a different
chromosomal region, therefore suggesting that a centromeric repositioning event
occurred in this species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00412-002-0205-5 
PMID: 12424526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

