

301. PLoS One. 2020 Jun 23;15(6):e0234634. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0234634.
eCollection 2020.

The profile of lipid metabolites in urine of marmoset wasting syndrome.

Yamazaki A(1), Nakamura T(1), Miyabe-Nishiwaki T(2), Hirata A(3), Inoue R(1),
Kobayashi K(1), Miyazaki Y(1), Hamasaki Y(1), Ishigami A(2), Nagata N(1), Kaneko 
A(2), Koizumi M(4), Ohta H(5), Okano HJ(5), Murata T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Radiology, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Aichi, Japan.
(3)Department of Animal Experiment, Life Science Research Center, Gifu
University, Gifu, Japan.
(4)Department of Laboratory Animal Facilities, The Jikei University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Regenerative Medicine, The Jikei University School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

Marmoset wasting syndrome (MWS) is clinically characterized by progressive weight
loss. Although morbidity and mortality of MWS are relatively high in captive
marmosets, its causes remain unknown. Lipid mediators are bioactive metabolites
which are produced from polyunsaturated fatty acids, such as arachidonic acid
(AA) and eicosapentaenoic acid. These lipid metabolites regulate a wide range of 
inflammatory responses and they are excreted into the urine. As urinary lipid
profiles reflect systemic inflammatory conditions, we comprehensively measured
the levels of 141 types of lipid metabolites in the urines obtained from healthy 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) (N = 7) or marmosets with MWS (N = 7). We
found that 41 types of metabolites were detected in all urine samples of both
groups. Among them, AA-derived metabolites accounted for 63% (26/41 types) of all
detected metabolites. Notably, the levels of AA-derived prostaglandin (PG) E2,
PGF2α, thromboxane (TX) B2 and F2-isoprostanes significantly increased in the
urine samples of marmosets with MWS. In this study, we found some urinary lipid
metabolites which may be involved in the development of MWS. Although the cause
of MWS remains unclear, our findings may provide some insight into understanding 
the mechanisms of development of MWS.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0234634 
PMCID: PMC7310677
PMID: 32574169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


302. Chronobiol Int. 2020 Jul;37(7):980-992. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2020.1773495. Epub 
2020 Jun 23.

Aging-related changes on social synchronization of circadian activity rhythm in a
diurnal primate (Callithrix jacchus).

Gonçalves FB(1), Gonçalves BSB(2), Cavalcante JS(3), Azevedo CVM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Escola Multicampi de Ciências Médicas do Rio Grande do Norte, Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Caicó, RN, Brazil.
(2)Escola de Artes, Ciências e Humanidades, Universidade de São Paulo , São
Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Estudos Neuroquímicos, Departamento de Fisiologia e
Comportamento, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal, RN, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia e Comportamento,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal, RN, Brazil.

The input of environmental time cues and expression of circadian activity rhythms
may change with aging. Among nonphotic zeitgebers, social cues from conspecific
vocalizations may contribute to the stability and survival of individuals of
social species, such as nonhuman primates. We evaluated aging-related changes on 
social synchronization of the circadian activity rhythm (CAR) in a social diurnal
primate, the common marmoset. The activity of 18 male marmosets was recorded by
actiwatches in two conditions. (1) Experimental - 4 young adult (5 ± 2 yrs of
age) and 4 older (10 ± 2 yrs of age) animals maintained under LD 12/12 h and LL
in a room with full insulation for light but only partial insulation for sound
from vocalizations of conspecifics maintained outdoors in the colony; and (2)
Control - 10 young adult animals maintained outdoors in the colony (5 animals as 
a control per age group). In LL, the CAR of young adults showed more stable
synchronization with controls. Among the aged marmosets, two free-ran with
τ > 24 h, whereas the other two showed relative coordination during the first
30 days in LL, but free-ran thereafter. These differences were reflected in the
"social" phase angles (ψon and ψoff ) between rhythms of experimental and control
animal groups. Moreover, the activity patterns of aged animals showed lower
social synchrony with controls compared to young adults, with the time lags of
the time series between each experimental group and control group being negative 
in aged and positive in young adult animals (t-test, p < 0.05). The index of
stability of the CAR showed no differences according to age, while the intradaily
variability of the CAR was higher in the aged animals during
LD-resynchronization, who took additional days to resynchronize. Thus, the social
modulation on CAR may vary with age in marmosets. In the aged group, there was a 
lower effect of social synchronization, which may be associated with
aging-related changes in the synchronization and generation of the CAR as well as
in system outputs.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2020.1773495 
PMID: 32573282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

