

3018. Cereb Cortex. 2002 Nov;12(11):1132-45.

Physiological responses of New World monkey V1 neurons to stimuli defined by
coherent motion.

Bourne JA(1), Tweedale R, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.

We studied the responses of neurons in area V1 of marmosets to visual stimuli
that moved against dynamic textured backgrounds. The stimuli were defined either 
by a first-order cue ('solid' bars, which were either darker or lighter than the 
background) or by a second-order cue ('camouflaged' bars, defined only by
coherent motion). Forty-two per cent of the neurons demonstrated a similar
selectivity for the direction of motion of the solid and camouflaged bars,
thereby characterizing a population of cue-invariant (CI) cells. The other cells 
either showed different selectivity to the movement of solid and camouflaged bars
(non-cue-invariant, or NCI cells), or responded equally well to movement in all
directions. CI neurons, which were rare in layer 4, tended to have larger
receptive fields and to be more strongly direction selective than NCI cells.
Although V1 neurons tended to show maximal responses to camouflaged bars that
were longer than the 'optimal' solid bars, many CI neurons preferred first- and
second-order stimuli of similar lengths. Finally, the activity evoked by the
camouflaged bars was delayed in relation to that evoked by solid bars. These
results demonstrate that motion CI responses are relatively common in primate V1,
especially among a population of strongly direction-selective neurons. They also 
indicate that this response property may depend on feedback from extrastriate
areas, or on complex intrinsic interactions within V1.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/12.11.1132 
PMID: 12379602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3019. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2002 Oct;109(10):1295-307.

Naloxone reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesias and apomorphine-induced rotations
in primate models of parkinsonism.

Klintenberg R(1), Svenningsson P, Gunne L, Andr√©n PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, Biomedicum,
Uppsala, Sweden.

Using in situ hybridization, it was found that subchronic treatment with
levodopa/benserazide increased preproenkephalin-A and preproenkephalin-B mRNAs in
the dopamine-depleted striatum. In order to examine whether dysfunction of the
endogenous opioid system may underlie the development of levodopa-induced
dyskinesias, the effect of naloxone, an opioid antagonist, on dyskinesias was
investigated in two models of parkinsonism in the common marmoset. MPTP-treated
monkeys were administered a daily oral dose of levodopa/benserazide which
relieved the parkinsonian symptoms but induced severe and reproducible dyskinetic
movements. Naloxone (0.1, 0.2 or 0.5 mg/kg) was given subcutaneously (s.c.)
during peak-dose dyskinesia, which reduced the dyskinesias significantly using
the highest dose, normalized the motor activity, but did not modify the
antiparkinson effect. Unilaterally 6-OHDA -lesioned marmosets received
apomorphine s.c., which caused a contralateral turning behavior that could be
reduced up to 35 percent by concomitant administration of naloxone. Taken
together the present results suggest a possible role for the endogenous opioid
system in the pathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-002-0715-6 
PMID: 12373562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

