

3019. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2002 Oct;109(10):1295-307.

Naloxone reduces levodopa-induced dyskinesias and apomorphine-induced rotations
in primate models of parkinsonism.

Klintenberg R(1), Svenningsson P, Gunne L, Andr√©n PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, Biomedicum,
Uppsala, Sweden.

Using in situ hybridization, it was found that subchronic treatment with
levodopa/benserazide increased preproenkephalin-A and preproenkephalin-B mRNAs in
the dopamine-depleted striatum. In order to examine whether dysfunction of the
endogenous opioid system may underlie the development of levodopa-induced
dyskinesias, the effect of naloxone, an opioid antagonist, on dyskinesias was
investigated in two models of parkinsonism in the common marmoset. MPTP-treated
monkeys were administered a daily oral dose of levodopa/benserazide which
relieved the parkinsonian symptoms but induced severe and reproducible dyskinetic
movements. Naloxone (0.1, 0.2 or 0.5 mg/kg) was given subcutaneously (s.c.)
during peak-dose dyskinesia, which reduced the dyskinesias significantly using
the highest dose, normalized the motor activity, but did not modify the
antiparkinson effect. Unilaterally 6-OHDA -lesioned marmosets received
apomorphine s.c., which caused a contralateral turning behavior that could be
reduced up to 35 percent by concomitant administration of naloxone. Taken
together the present results suggest a possible role for the endogenous opioid
system in the pathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-002-0715-6 
PMID: 12373562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3020. Neuron. 2002 Sep 26;36(1):139-42.

Predicting functional properties of visual cortex from an evolutionary scaling
law.

Stevens CF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk
Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. stevens@salk.edu

The number of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) is, across primate
species, related to the number of neurons in the visual thalamus (the lateral
geniculate nucleus [LGN]) by a power law with an exponent of 3/2. This
evolutionary scaling law is explained by a simple relation according to which the
fineness of resolution in cortex is related to the number of neurons in the area 
of cortex used to process the information from a single point of light (the
point-spread area). The same theory provides a link between two functional
properties of the visual cortex, the areal cortical magnification factor (ACMF)
and the receptive field (RF) area.

DOI: 10.1016/s0896-6273(02)00902-9 
PMID: 12367512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

