

3020. Neuron. 2002 Sep 26;36(1):139-42.

Predicting functional properties of visual cortex from an evolutionary scaling
law.

Stevens CF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Molecular Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk
Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. stevens@salk.edu

The number of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) is, across primate
species, related to the number of neurons in the visual thalamus (the lateral
geniculate nucleus [LGN]) by a power law with an exponent of 3/2. This
evolutionary scaling law is explained by a simple relation according to which the
fineness of resolution in cortex is related to the number of neurons in the area 
of cortex used to process the information from a single point of light (the
point-spread area). The same theory provides a link between two functional
properties of the visual cortex, the areal cortical magnification factor (ACMF)
and the receptive field (RF) area.

DOI: 10.1016/s0896-6273(02)00902-9 
PMID: 12367512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3021. Histochem J. 2002 Jan-Feb;34(1-2):79-84.

Distribution of binding sites for the plant lectin Ulex europaeus agglutinin I on
primary sensory neurones in seven different mammalian species.

Gerke MB(1), Plenderleith MB.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, Queensland University of
Technology, Brisbane, Australia.

There is an increasing body of evidence to suggest that different functional
classes of neurones express characteristic cell-surface carbohydrates. Previous
studies have shown that the plant lectin Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I (UEA) binds 
to a population of small to medium diameter primary sensory neurones in rabbits
and humans. This suggests that a fucose-containing glycoconjugate may be
expressed by nociceptive primary sensory neurones. In order to determine the
extent to which this glycoconjugate is expressed by other species, in the current
study, we have examined the distribution of UEA-binding sites on primary sensory 
neurones in seven different mammals. Binding sites for UEA were associated with
the plasma membrane and cytoplasmic granules of small to medium dorsal root
ganglion cells and their axon terminals in laminae I-III of the grey matter of
the spinal cord, in the rabbit, cat and marmoset monkey. However, no binding was 
observed in either the dorsal root ganglia or spinal cord in the mouse, rat,
guinea pig or flying fox. These results indicate an inter-species variation in
the expression of cell-surface glycoconjugates on mammalian primary sensory
neurones.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021356211439 
PMID: 12365803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

