

3021. Histochem J. 2002 Jan-Feb;34(1-2):79-84.

Distribution of binding sites for the plant lectin Ulex europaeus agglutinin I on
primary sensory neurones in seven different mammalian species.

Gerke MB(1), Plenderleith MB.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, Queensland University of
Technology, Brisbane, Australia.

There is an increasing body of evidence to suggest that different functional
classes of neurones express characteristic cell-surface carbohydrates. Previous
studies have shown that the plant lectin Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I (UEA) binds 
to a population of small to medium diameter primary sensory neurones in rabbits
and humans. This suggests that a fucose-containing glycoconjugate may be
expressed by nociceptive primary sensory neurones. In order to determine the
extent to which this glycoconjugate is expressed by other species, in the current
study, we have examined the distribution of UEA-binding sites on primary sensory 
neurones in seven different mammals. Binding sites for UEA were associated with
the plasma membrane and cytoplasmic granules of small to medium dorsal root
ganglion cells and their axon terminals in laminae I-III of the grey matter of
the spinal cord, in the rabbit, cat and marmoset monkey. However, no binding was 
observed in either the dorsal root ganglia or spinal cord in the mouse, rat,
guinea pig or flying fox. These results indicate an inter-species variation in
the expression of cell-surface glycoconjugates on mammalian primary sensory
neurones.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1021356211439 
PMID: 12365803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3022. Cells Tissues Organs. 2002;172(1):53-69.

Central olfactory connections in the microsmatic marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Liebetanz D(1), Nitsche Mi, Fromm C, Reyher CK.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Biophysical Chemistry, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.
dliebet@gwdg.de

The mammalian primary olfactory system consists of a set of different
telencephalic structures, including paleo-, archi-, periarchi- and mesocortical
components. We present the first characterisation of the normal and connectional 
anatomy of the primary olfactory cortex of the common marmoset, a microsmatic
simian species increasingly used in primate research. The centrifugal and
centripetal bulbar projections were determined by injections of the anterograde
and retrograde tracer wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase and
fluorescent dyes into the ipsilateral main olfactory bulb. The efferent
projections of the marmoset bulb are organised entirely ipsilaterally and are
established via a rudimentary medial olfactory tract and the dominant lateral
olfactory tract. Target areas are the anterior olfactory nucleus, the entire
prepiriform cortex, ventral tenia tecta, periamygdaloid cortex and the rostral
part of the entorhinal cortex. The bulbar axons predominantly terminate in the
outer part of layer I. The anterior olfactory nucleus receives a weak additional 
input within layer II and III, which is not found in macrosmatic rodents. Further
anterograde labelling was found in the endopiriform nucleus deep under the
prepiriform cortex and within an anterolateral strip of the olfactory tubercle.
However, control injections into the olfactory tubercle suggest that the marmoset
olfactory tubercle receives a bisynaptic olfactory input only. Retrograde
labelling after bulb injections revealed that, except for the olfactory tubercle,
all primary olfactory cortices contributed to an ipsilateral bulbopetal feedback 
projection. Like in rodents, the only bulbopetal projection organised bilaterally
in the marmoset is maintained by the anterior olfactory nucleus. With few
exceptions, the projections of the marmoset olfactory brain are organised
similarly to that of the macaque monkey or those of macrosmatic species.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000064386 
PMID: 12364829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

