

3024. Mov Disord. 2002 Sep;17(5):877-86.

The monoamine reuptake blocker brasofensine reverses akinesia without dyskinesia 
in MPTP-treated and levodopa-primed common marmosets.

Pearce RK(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Banerji T, Scheel-Kr√ºger J, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas' School 
of Biomedical Sciences, London, United Kingdom.

The common marmoset develops motor deficits after MPTP treatment and exhibits
dyskinesia after chronic levodopa (L-dopa) dosing and subsequent re-challenge
with L-dopa and other dopaminergic agents. We report on the actions of the potent
monoamine reuptake blocker brasofensine on motor disability, locomotor activity, 
and dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-1, 2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) -treated
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Oral administration of brasofensine (0.25,
0.5, 1.0, or 2.5 mg/kg) to MPTP-treated marmosets produced a long-lasting,
dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity and reduction in disability scores.
In addition, coadministration of the lowest dose of brasofensine (0.25 mg/kg
orally) with a threshold oral dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg) caused a marked increase
in locomotor activity, greater than that produced by either drug alone. In other 
MPTP-treated marmosets previously primed to exhibit dyskinesia by repeated L-dopa
dosing, brasofensine effectively reversed akinesia with a naturalistic and
prolonged motor response without the appearance of dyskinesia or stereotypy. This
finding contrasts with the severe dyskinesia, stereotypy, and hyperkinesis
produced by equivalent doses of L-dopa. The ability of brasofensine to produce a 
prolonged and naturalistic antiparkinsonian response without eliciting dyskinesia
after previous L-dopa priming may relate to actions on D(1) receptor-linked
pathways. These findings suggest that monoamine reuptake blockade may be of value
in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, both early in the disease course and
when L-dopa-induced dyskinesias complicate treatment.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10238 
PMID: 12360536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3025. Biol Reprod. 2002 Oct;67(4):1180-8.

Angiogenesis in the corpus luteum of early pregnancy in the marmoset and the
effects of vascular endothelial growth factor immunoneutralization on
establishment of pregnancy.

Rowe AJ(1), Morris KD, Bicknell R, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, United Kingdom.

This study investigated vascular and molecular changes in the corpus luteum (CL) 
of early pregnancy in the marmoset. Ovaries were studied on Days 21 (n = 6) and
28 (n = 6) of pregnancy and compared with corpora lutea from Day 21 (late luteal)
of the nonconception cycle (n = 8). Endothelial cell proliferation was measured
by immunocytochemical detection of incorporated bromodeoxyuridine. Endothelial
cell and pericyte area were assessed by quantitative immunocytochemistry for CD31
and alpha-smooth muscle actin, respectively. Vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) and its receptors, kinase insert domain-containing region (KDR) and
fms-like tyrosine kinase (Flt) mRNA, were localized and quantified in in situ
hybridization. In addition, the effects of immunoneutralization of VEGF on
establishment and maintenance of pregnancy were investigated by administering a
VEGF neutralizing antibody on Days 0-10 of the luteal phase during potentially
fertile cycles (n = 10) and compared with fertile controls (n = 6). No
differences in the cellular or morphological parameters were found between
pregnant and structurally intact nonpregnant corpora lutea. No major differences 
were found in expression of VEGF, Flt, or KDR in these CL. VEGF
immunoneutralization markedly suppressed plasma progesterone secretion during
treatment, but pregnancy rate was not significantly reduced. Thus, a role for
VEGF in early pregnancy in the marmoset remains to be established. These results 
show that, by the late luteal phase in the marmoset, the corpus luteum has
established a mature vascular system and the molecular capacity to synthesize
VEGF and its receptors. A pregnancy-induced spurt of angiogenesis or gene
expression does not appear to take place; rather, maintenance of the existing
vasculature is all that is required for the establishment of pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod67.4.1180 
PMID: 12297534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

