

3027. Eur J Pharmacol. 2002 Sep 13;451(2):157-60.

Dopamine reuptake inhibition and failure to evoke dyskinesia in MPTP-treated
primates.

Hansard MJ(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Cheetham SC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Nonspecific monoamine reuptake inhibitors reverse motor abnormalities in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated marmosets without
evoking established dyskinesia. However, it is not known whether dopamine
reuptake inhibition alone explains these actions or whether noradrenaline and/or 
serotonin reuptake blockade also contributes. L-DOPA (12.5 mg/kg, p.o.) rapidly
reversed the baseline locomotor deficits and motor disabilities, but evoked
dyskinesia (especially limb chorea) in MPTP-treated common marmosets primed to
exhibit involuntary movements. In contrast, the selective dopamine reuptake
inhibitor 1-(2-(bis-(4-fluorophenyl)-methoxy)ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl) piperazine
dihydrochloride (GBR 12909) reversed motor deficits in a dose-dependent manner
but, unlike L-DOPA, did not evoke established dyskinesia in these animals.
Therefore, inhibition of dopamine reuptake does not evoke established dyskinesia 
in MPTP-treated primates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(02)02268-9 
PMID: 12231385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3028. Brain Res. 2002 Sep 20;950(1-2):39-51.

Learning impairments in monkeys with combined but not separate excitotoxic
lesions of the anterior and mediodorsal thalamic nuclei.

Ridley RM(1), Maclean CJ, Young FM, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing
Street, CB2 3EB, Cambridge, UK. rmr21@am.ac.uk

Clinical studies in humans and experiments in macaques suggest that damage to the
anterior and the mediodorsal thalamus can induce a moderate amnesia, but a more
dense impairment may result from substantial damage within the temporal lobes or 
their subcortical connections. Lesions of the anterior thalamus in macaques
produce impairments which resemble those seen after lesions of the
fornix-mamillary pathway, which carries projections from the hippocampus to the
anterior thalamus, while lesions of the mediodorsal thalamus, which receives
inputs from frontal and temporal cortex, produce moderate impairments on a wider 
range of memory tasks. In the present study, we have made bilateral excitotoxic
lesions of either the anterior or the mediodorsal thalamus, or both, in marmoset 
monkeys. Monkeys with lesions of both thalamic nuclei were severely impaired on
retention and new learning of examples of the visuospatial conditional task, a
task which is specifically impaired by lesions of the fornix or hippocampus. They
were not impaired on performance of a visuovisual conditional task on which
monkeys with hippocampal lesions are impaired, nor were they impaired on any
visual discrimination task, including the concurrent discrimination task on which
monkeys with temporal neocortical ablations are impaired. Monkeys with separate
lesions of either the anterior or the mediodorsal thalamus were not impaired on
any of these tasks. These results suggest that the mediodorsal thalamus and the
anterior thalamus are both involved in processing the output of the
hippocampal-fornix-thalamic circuit. Dense amnesia may result from damage to
circuits additional to the temporal lobe efferents to either the anterior or the 
mediodorsal nuclei.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(02)02984-0 
PMID: 12231227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

