

3030. Can J Microbiol. 2002 Jul;48(7):602-10.

Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans genetic heterogeneity: amplification of
JP2-like ltx promoter pattern correlated with specific arbitrarily primed
polymerase chain reaction (AP-PCR) genotypes from human but not marmoset
Brazilian isolates.

Saddi-Ortega L(1), Carvalho MA, Cisalpino PS, Moreira ES.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiología, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Specific clonal types of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans, a major human
periodontal pathogen, may be responsible for clinical manifestations and the
production of leukotoxin virulence factors. Leukotoxicity is associated with
genetic polymorphism at the promoter region of the leukotoxin (lItx) gene. Here, 
we describe the use of arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction (AP-PCR) and 
ltx promoter PCR to molecularly characterise 35 A. actinomycetemcomitans
Brazilian isolates: 21 of human origin and 14 from captive marmosets (Callitrix
spp., primates commonly used as animal models for periodontal research). The
discriminative capacity of each of 12 arbitrary primers was found to be variable,
yielding between 3 and 24 PCR amplitypes. Combination of the results for all
primers led to characterisation of 14 genotypes that grouped into four major
clusters based on genetic similarity. Clusters 2, 3, and 4 were discriminative to
host origin. A correlation with periodontal disease was suggested for strains
belonging to clusters 3 and 4. The JP2-like PCR amplification pattern, associated
with highly leukotoxic strains, was exclusive to human isolates and present in
29% of human isolates where it occurred in close relationship with AP genotypes L
and J (cluster 3).

DOI: 10.1139/w02-055 
PMID: 12224559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3031. Anat Rec. 2002 Oct 1;268(2):105-14.

Analysis of the distribution of binding sites for the plant lectin Bandeiraea
simplicifolia I-isolectin B4 on primary sensory neurones in seven mammalian
species.

Gerke MB(1), Plenderleith MB.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, Queensland University of
Technology, Brisbane, Queensland 4001, Australia.

The purpose of the present study was to investigate the binding patterns of the
plant lectin Bandeiraea simplicifolia I-isolectin B(4) (BSI-B(4)) to sensory
neurones in seven mammalian species. The dorsal root ganglia and spinal cords of 
three rats, mice, guinea pigs, rabbits, flying foxes, cats, and marmoset monkeys 
were screened for BSI-B(4) using lectin histochemistry. BSI-B(4) binding was
associated with the soma of predominantly small-diameter primary sensory neurones
in the dorsal root ganglia and their axon terminals within laminae I and II of
the superficial dorsal horn in all seven species. The similarities of lectin
binding patterns in each of these species suggest that the glycoconjugate to
which BSI-B(4) binds has a ubiquitous distribution in mammals, and supports the
proposal that this lectin may preferentially bind to a subpopulation of sensory
neurones with a similar functional role in each of these species.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.10144 
PMID: 12221716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

