

3034. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Sep 2;450(4):366-81.

Striate cortex in dichromatic and trichromatic marmosets: neurochemical
compartmentalization and geniculate input.

Solomon SG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. samuels@cns.nyu.edu

The superficial layers of primate striate cortex (V1) contain a regular pattern
of dense staining for cytochrome oxidase (CO) reactivity ("blobs") that receive
direct input from the koniocellular layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus. It 
has been suggested that the blob regions are dedicated to processing color
information. Here, the neurochemical compartmentalization of blobs and their
input from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) was measured in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) identified as having either dichromatic or trichromatic
color vision. In all animals, layer III of V1 showed a patchy distribution of CO.
The spatial density of CO blobs (mean, 4.6 blobs/mm(2); range, 3.9-5.5), blob
diameter, and the proportion of cortical area within blobs was not significantly 
different in dichromats and trichromats. The LGN input was studied by injecting
retrograde tracer into V1. The koniocellular layers of the LGN contribute 11% of 
all relay cells, and form the only geniculate input to upper layer III of V1.
Only half of all relay cells in the KC layers express calbindin. There is no
obvious difference between dichromats and trichromats in the pattern of the
geniculate projection to V1. It is concluded that the trichromatic phenotype is
not associated with changes in the gross anatomy, neurochemistry, or organization
of the geniculate afferents to the superficial layers of V1.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10327 
PMID: 12209849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3035. Eur J Immunol. 2002 Aug;32(8):2218-28.

Protection of marmoset monkeys against EAE by treatment with a murine antibody
blocking CD40 (mu5D12).

Laman JD(1), 't Hart BA, Brok H, Meurs Mv, Schellekens MM, Kasran A, Boon L,
Bauer J, Boer Md, Ceuppens J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
Laman@immu.fgg.eur.nl

CD40-CD40 ligand interactions are crucial to cognate interactions between T
cells, B cells and antigen-presenting cells (APC), and contribute to
non-antigen-specific effector functions of APC in inflammatory disorders. Here we
demonstrate that functional blockade of CD40 with an antagonist mouse anti-human 
CD40 monoclonal antibody (mAb mu5D12) effectively prevents clinical expression of
chronic demyelinating experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in outbred 
marmoset monkeys, a preclinical model of multiple sclerosis. Anti-CD40 mAb
interfered with development of clinical symptoms of marmoset EAE during the
treatment period, even when treatment was started several weeks after T cell
priming. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated inflammatory activity in the
brain at initiation of antibody treatment, confirming that treatment interfered
with the disease process. Access of therapeutic anti-CD40 to potential sites of
action, the secondary lymphoid organs and the brain white matter lesions, was
visualized in situ. The present data are the first to demonstrate the clinical
potential of blocking APC and effector cell functions using murine antagonist
anti-CD40 mAb in the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(200208)32:8<2218::AID-IMMU2218>3.0.CO;2-0 
PMID: 12209634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

