

3035. Eur J Immunol. 2002 Aug;32(8):2218-28.

Protection of marmoset monkeys against EAE by treatment with a murine antibody
blocking CD40 (mu5D12).

Laman JD(1), 't Hart BA, Brok H, Meurs Mv, Schellekens MM, Kasran A, Boon L,
Bauer J, Boer Md, Ceuppens J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
Laman@immu.fgg.eur.nl

CD40-CD40 ligand interactions are crucial to cognate interactions between T
cells, B cells and antigen-presenting cells (APC), and contribute to
non-antigen-specific effector functions of APC in inflammatory disorders. Here we
demonstrate that functional blockade of CD40 with an antagonist mouse anti-human 
CD40 monoclonal antibody (mAb mu5D12) effectively prevents clinical expression of
chronic demyelinating experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in outbred 
marmoset monkeys, a preclinical model of multiple sclerosis. Anti-CD40 mAb
interfered with development of clinical symptoms of marmoset EAE during the
treatment period, even when treatment was started several weeks after T cell
priming. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated inflammatory activity in the
brain at initiation of antibody treatment, confirming that treatment interfered
with the disease process. Access of therapeutic anti-CD40 to potential sites of
action, the secondary lymphoid organs and the brain white matter lesions, was
visualized in situ. The present data are the first to demonstrate the clinical
potential of blocking APC and effector cell functions using murine antagonist
anti-CD40 mAb in the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(200208)32:8<2218::AID-IMMU2218>3.0.CO;2-0 
PMID: 12209634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3036. Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol. 2002 Oct;133(2):379-88.

Intestinal microbial patterns of the common marmoset and rhesus macaque.

Bailey MT(1), Coe CL.

Author information: 
(1)Harlow Primate Laboratory, 22 N. Charter Street, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, WI 53715, USA. bailey.494@osu.edu

The intestinal microflora of common marmosets and rhesus monkeys were compared by
enumerating bacteria from the small and large intestines. Rhesus monkeys had a
consistent microflora pattern manifest by higher concentrations of total and
Gram-negative aerobic and facultatively anaerobic bacteria, as well as aerobic
and anaerobic Lactobacilli, in the large intestine as compared to the small
intestine. In contrast, the marmoset microflora were considerably more variable. 
Approximately two-thirds of the marmosets (designated group A) had an overall
profile that resembled the rhesus monkeys, but they had significantly higher
concentrations of Gram-negative microflora in their large intestines than the
rhesus monkeys. The remaining marmosets (group B) had higher concentrations of
bacteria in the small intestine as compared to the large intestine, with the
large intestinal concentrations being significantly lower than in the rhesus
monkeys and group A marmosets. Moreover, the marmosets did not have detectable
levels of aerobic Lactobacilli, and anaerobic Lactobacilli concentrations were
significantly lower than in the rhesus macaques. Although it is unknown why
microflora differ across species, it is likely that evolutionary adaptations in
anatomy and functioning of the gastrointestinal tract influence the concentration
and types of bacteria residing as the normal intestinal microflora.

DOI: 10.1016/s1095-6433(02)00174-5 
PMID: 12208308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

