

3036. Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol. 2002 Oct;133(2):379-88.

Intestinal microbial patterns of the common marmoset and rhesus macaque.

Bailey MT(1), Coe CL.

Author information: 
(1)Harlow Primate Laboratory, 22 N. Charter Street, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, WI 53715, USA. bailey.494@osu.edu

The intestinal microflora of common marmosets and rhesus monkeys were compared by
enumerating bacteria from the small and large intestines. Rhesus monkeys had a
consistent microflora pattern manifest by higher concentrations of total and
Gram-negative aerobic and facultatively anaerobic bacteria, as well as aerobic
and anaerobic Lactobacilli, in the large intestine as compared to the small
intestine. In contrast, the marmoset microflora were considerably more variable. 
Approximately two-thirds of the marmosets (designated group A) had an overall
profile that resembled the rhesus monkeys, but they had significantly higher
concentrations of Gram-negative microflora in their large intestines than the
rhesus monkeys. The remaining marmosets (group B) had higher concentrations of
bacteria in the small intestine as compared to the large intestine, with the
large intestinal concentrations being significantly lower than in the rhesus
monkeys and group A marmosets. Moreover, the marmosets did not have detectable
levels of aerobic Lactobacilli, and anaerobic Lactobacilli concentrations were
significantly lower than in the rhesus macaques. Although it is unknown why
microflora differ across species, it is likely that evolutionary adaptations in
anatomy and functioning of the gastrointestinal tract influence the concentration
and types of bacteria residing as the normal intestinal microflora.

DOI: 10.1016/s1095-6433(02)00174-5 
PMID: 12208308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3037. Neuroscience. 2002;114(1):99-109.

Behavioural and immunohistochemical changes following supranigral administration 
of sonic hedgehog in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common 
marmosets.

Dass B(1), Iravani MM, Jackson MJ, Engber TM, Galdes A, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences,
Kings College London, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Sonic hedgehog (SHH) has trophic actions on dopaminergic cell cultures and
protects them from MPP(+) toxicity but its in vivo actions have not been
explored. We now investigate the effects of unilateral supranigral administration
of SHH on nigro-striatal function in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets. SHH (0.1
or 1.0 microg) or vehicle was stereotaxically injected into the region of the
right substantia nigra twice with an interval of 5 weeks between administrations.
The first or second administration of low dose SHH (0.1 microg) did not
significantly improve motor disability or locomotor activity compared to
time-matched vehicle-treated animals. There was, however, an approximately 30%
improvement in both motor disability and locomotor activity following the first
administration of high dose SHH (1.0 microg). No further improvements occurred
following the second high dose SHH treatment. Acute oral administration of
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) produced a smaller increase in locomotor
activity and greater reversal of motor disability in animals treated with SHH
than occurred in vehicle-treated common marmosets. In the substantia nigra pars
compacta, ipsilateral to SHH administration, the number of tyrosine
hydroxylase-positive neurones was increased by 21% (P > 0.05) and 57% (P < 0.05) 
in low and high dose SHH groups respectively compared to the untreated
contralateral hemisphere. There was no difference in the number of glial
fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells. SHH may improve nigro-striatal function
by restoring tyrosine hydroxylase positivity. This is reflected by an improvement
in basal disability and a reduction in the lesion-induced response to L-DOPA.

Copyright 2002 IBRO

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00214-2 
PMID: 12207958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

