

3039. Reproduction. 2002 Sep;124(3):339-46.

Spermatogenesis and steroidogenesis in mouse, hamster and monkey testicular
tissue after cryopreservation and heterotopic grafting to castrated hosts.

Schlatt S(1), Kim SS, Gosden R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, Domagkstrasse 11, 48149 MÃ¼nster, Germany.

Retrieval, extracorporal storage and autotransplantation of testicular tissue
could become an important strategy for preserving male gonadal function. The
present study used syngeneic and immunodeficient nude mice as hosts, and immature
and adult mice, neonatal and adult photoregressed Djungarian hamsters and
neonatal marmosets to identify the potential of testicular tissue grafting to
maintain the morphological and functional integrity of the testis. Testicular
tissue was grafted s.c. either as fresh tissue or after cryopreservation into
adult, orchidectomized hosts. The mice that received rodent testis tissue were
autopsied 50 days later, and blood samples were collected. Sixty-five per cent of
mouse isografts contained morphologically normal testicular tissue and
seminiferous tubules with some degree of spermatogenic recovery. Mature
spermatozoa were recovered after enzymatic disaggregation. Although the recovery 
of spermatogenesis was limited in adult mouse and hamster tissue, complete
spermatogenesis was observed in grafts from immature rodents. Testicular tissue
from neonatal marmosets developed up to the stage of spermatocytes at day 135
after xenografting. Androgen concentrations were comparable in intact control
mice and in mice receiving fresh mouse and hamster grafts, slightly lower in mice
receiving cryopreserved grafts and adult photoregressed hamster tissue, and low
in castrated control mice and in mice receiving marmoset tissue. These results
show that isografts and xenografts of immature and adult testicular tissue become
functionally active as a s.c. graft in the mouse and that this approach might be 
useful in combination with cryopreservation as a tool for storage and activation 
of the male germ line and androgen replacement therapy in patients.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.0.1240339 
PMID: 12201807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3040. J Mol Endocrinol. 2002 Aug;29(1):89-97.

Characterisation of the GH gene cluster in a new-world monkey, the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Wallis OC(1), Wallis M.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences, University of Sussex, 
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK. c.wallis@sussex.ac.uk

In most mammals pituitary GH is encoded by a single gene with no close relatives.
However, in man the GH gene has been shown to be one of a cluster of five closely
related genes, four of which are expressed in the placenta. Rhesus monkey also
expresses at least five closely related GH-like genes, although the genomic
organisation of these has not been fully reported. Here we describe the cloning
and characterisation of GH-like genes in a new-world monkey, the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). This species possesses a cluster of eight GH-like 'genes'. 
The gene at the 5' end of this cluster encodes pituitary GH and is similar to
that encoding human GH. Five of the eight marmoset 'genes' are probably
pseudogenes, since they include mutations which would prevent normal expression, 
including stop codons and small insertions/deletions that would change the
reading frame. In one case a large part of a gene is deleted, and in another a
large insertion is introduced into an exon. The remaining two marmoset genes are 
potentially expressible, as proteins with sequences substantially different (at
25-30% of all residues) from that of marmoset GH itself; whether and in which
tissue(s) such expression actually occurs is not yet known. None of the marmoset 
genes is clearly equivalent to any of the human GH-like genes expressed in the
placenta, and this and phylogenetic analysis suggest that the duplications that
gave rise to the marmoset GH gene cluster occurred independently of those that
gave rise to the corresponding cluster in man. Although it includes more 'genes',
the marmoset cluster extends over a shorter region of chromosomal DNA (about 35
kb) than does the human GH gene cluster (about 50 kb).

DOI: 10.1677/jme.0.0290089 
PMID: 12200231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

