

3041. J Immunol Methods. 2002 Jun 1;264(1-2):19-28.

Cell surface phenotyping and cytokine production of Epstein-Barr Virus
(EBV)-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs).

Wroblewski JM(1), Copple A, Batson LP, Landers CD, Yannelli JR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, College of Medicine, University of
Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40536, USA.

Epstein-Barr Virus-transformed B lymphoblastoid cell lines (EBV-LCLs) are
routinely used for the in vitro expansion of T cells. However, these cell lines
are reported to produce the cytokine IL-10, which is inhibitory for T cells. We, 
therefore, characterized a panel of 37 EBV-LCLs for a variety of cell surface
markers, for secretion of various cytokines including IL-10 and for
immunoglobulin production. These cell lines were derived from normal donors or
patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer, acute myelogenous leukemia, melanoma or 
colon cancer. Overall, 26 lines were positive for CD19 and CD20, and 11 were
negative for both. All of the lines were strongly HLA-DR+, while CD40 expression 
was variable. Twenty-four (65%) were both CD23+ and secreted immunoglobulin, and 
33 expressed kappa and/or lambda light chains. Additionally, all of the EBV-LCLs 
were negative for T cell (CD3), NK cell (CD16, CD56), monocyte (CD14) and
granulocyte (CD66b) surface markers. Some level of IL-10, IL-6, IL-12p40 and
TNF-alpha cytokine production was detected in 33, 18, 19 and 12 EBV-LCLs,
respectively. Together, these data reflect the heterogeneity of EBV-LCLs, which
cautions their use nondiscriminately in various immunologic assays.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-1759(01)00565-8 
PMID: 12191505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3042. J Med Primatol. 2002 Jun;31(3):147-51.

Neonatal behavioral scoring of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): relation to
physical condition and survival.

Tardif SD(1), Layne DG, Cancino L, Smucny DA.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest Regional Primate Research Center, San Antonio, TX 78245-0549.
stardif@sfbr.org

A seven-task behavioral test was performed on 86 common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) infants, 24-36 h following birth. This report describes the test outcome
and its relation to physical condition and survival of the infants. The
percentage of infants receiving a perfect score on a given task ranged from 30.6 
(rooting) to 70.6% (grasping). Heavier infants were more likely to have perfect
scores for crawling (F=4.20, P=0.044) and infants with a longer knee-heel length 
tended to be more likely to have a perfect grasping score (F=3.63, P=0.06). While
the modal score was a perfect score for most individual tasks, the modal number
of total perfect scores that a given infant received was 3-4 and only 4.7% of
infants received perfect scores on all seven tasks. These results suggest that
this group of behavioral tasks will produce a variable response within a
population of neonates. While no individual behavioral score predicted survival
during week 1, the number of perfect scores across all tasks was predictive of
survival outcome; infants with a higher total number of perfect scores were more 
likely to survive (F=6.02, P=0.018). When all combinations of tests were
compared, the best predictor of survival was outcome on four of the seven tests, 
all related to motor skills (F=7.46, P=0.009).

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2002.02005.x 
PMID: 12190856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

