

3042. J Med Primatol. 2002 Jun;31(3):147-51.

Neonatal behavioral scoring of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): relation to
physical condition and survival.

Tardif SD(1), Layne DG, Cancino L, Smucny DA.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest Regional Primate Research Center, San Antonio, TX 78245-0549.
stardif@sfbr.org

A seven-task behavioral test was performed on 86 common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) infants, 24-36 h following birth. This report describes the test outcome
and its relation to physical condition and survival of the infants. The
percentage of infants receiving a perfect score on a given task ranged from 30.6 
(rooting) to 70.6% (grasping). Heavier infants were more likely to have perfect
scores for crawling (F=4.20, P=0.044) and infants with a longer knee-heel length 
tended to be more likely to have a perfect grasping score (F=3.63, P=0.06). While
the modal score was a perfect score for most individual tasks, the modal number
of total perfect scores that a given infant received was 3-4 and only 4.7% of
infants received perfect scores on all seven tasks. These results suggest that
this group of behavioral tasks will produce a variable response within a
population of neonates. While no individual behavioral score predicted survival
during week 1, the number of perfect scores across all tasks was predictive of
survival outcome; infants with a higher total number of perfect scores were more 
likely to survive (F=6.02, P=0.018). When all combinations of tests were
compared, the best predictor of survival was outcome on four of the seven tests, 
all related to motor skills (F=7.46, P=0.009).

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2002.02005.x 
PMID: 12190856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3043. J Exp Med. 2002 Aug 19;196(4):431-45.

Blockade of HIV-1 infection of New World monkey cells occurs primarily at the
stage of virus entry.

LaBonte JA(1), Babcock GJ, Patel T, Sodroski J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Immunology & AIDS, JFB 824, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
44 Binney Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

HIV-1 naturally infects chimpanzees and humans, but does not infect Old World
monkeys because of replication blocks that occur after virus entry into the cell.
To understand the species-specific restrictions operating on HIV-1 infection, the
ability of HIV-1 to infect the cells of New World monkeys was examined. Primary
cells derived from common marmosets and squirrel monkeys support every phase of
HIV-1 replication with the exception of virus entry. Efficient HIV-1 entry
typically requires binding of the viral envelope glycoproteins and host cell
receptors, CD4 and either CCR5 or CXCR4 chemokine receptors. HIV-1 did not
detectably bind or utilize squirrel monkey CD4 for entry, and marmoset CD4 was
also very inefficient compared with human CD4. A marmoset CD4 variant, in which
residues 48 and 59 were altered to the amino acids found in human CD4, supported 
HIV-1 entry efficiently. The CXCR4 molecules of both marmosets and squirrel
monkeys supported HIV-1 infection, but the CCR5 proteins of both species were
only marginally functional. These results demonstrate that the CD4 and CCR5
proteins of New World monkeys represent the major restriction against HIV-1
replication in these primates. Directed adaptation of the HIV-1 envelope
glycoproteins to common marmoset receptors might allow the development of New
World monkey models of HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.20020468 
PMCID: PMC2196058
PMID: 12186836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

