

3043. J Exp Med. 2002 Aug 19;196(4):431-45.

Blockade of HIV-1 infection of New World monkey cells occurs primarily at the
stage of virus entry.

LaBonte JA(1), Babcock GJ, Patel T, Sodroski J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Immunology & AIDS, JFB 824, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
44 Binney Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

HIV-1 naturally infects chimpanzees and humans, but does not infect Old World
monkeys because of replication blocks that occur after virus entry into the cell.
To understand the species-specific restrictions operating on HIV-1 infection, the
ability of HIV-1 to infect the cells of New World monkeys was examined. Primary
cells derived from common marmosets and squirrel monkeys support every phase of
HIV-1 replication with the exception of virus entry. Efficient HIV-1 entry
typically requires binding of the viral envelope glycoproteins and host cell
receptors, CD4 and either CCR5 or CXCR4 chemokine receptors. HIV-1 did not
detectably bind or utilize squirrel monkey CD4 for entry, and marmoset CD4 was
also very inefficient compared with human CD4. A marmoset CD4 variant, in which
residues 48 and 59 were altered to the amino acids found in human CD4, supported 
HIV-1 entry efficiently. The CXCR4 molecules of both marmosets and squirrel
monkeys supported HIV-1 infection, but the CCR5 proteins of both species were
only marginally functional. These results demonstrate that the CD4 and CCR5
proteins of New World monkeys represent the major restriction against HIV-1
replication in these primates. Directed adaptation of the HIV-1 envelope
glycoproteins to common marmoset receptors might allow the development of New
World monkey models of HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.20020468 
PMCID: PMC2196058
PMID: 12186836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3044. J Mol Evol. 2002 Jul;55(1):92-103.

SRY evolution in Cebidae (Platyrrhini: Primates).

Moreira MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Praça da Cruz Vermelha 23, Sexto Andar-Genetics Division, Instituto Nacional
de Câncer, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil 20230-130. genetics@inca.org.br

Sex determination in mammals is dependent on the presence of SRY, which codes for
a protein with a DNA binding motif (the HMG-box domain). Here we analyze the
evolution of SRY among seven genera of New World monkeys belonging to the family 
Cebidae. Estimates of the number of synonymous and nonsynonymous substitutions
indicated the absence of positive selection acting on SRY evolution. The presence
of indels at the C-terminus coding region in different genera and species
maintained an open reading frame, indicating a selective pressure constraining
the evolution of this coding region. Available data on the fertility of natural
and captive interspecific hybrids failed to show any relationship between SRY
evolution and speciation for the genera herein studied. Our phylogenetic
arrangement for Cebidae genera was similar to previous topologies based on
mitochondrial and autosomal DNA sequences. This arrangement also corroborated the
division of Cebus into two species groups. However, for Callithrix the
differences among SRY topology and those derived from autosomal and mitochondrial
genes suggested a Y-chromosome ancestral polymorphism.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-001-2308-7 
PMID: 12165846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

