

3050. Immunogenetics. 2002 Jul;54(4):230-9. Epub 2002 Jun 20.

Extensive Mhc-DQB variation in humans and non-human primate species.

Otting N(1), de Groot NG, Doxiadis GG, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Department of Immunobiology, Lange Kleiweg
139, 2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. otting@bprc.nl

Non-human primates are often used in biomedical research, and the application of 
these animals as a model in immune-related diseases necessitates the
characterisation of their MHC system. In particular, the MHC class II regions of 
the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), the rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta)and the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) have been subject of molecular biological
studies in recent years. In this study the emphasis was on MHC class II genes of 
another macaque species, Macaca fascicularis(crab eating macaque or cynomolgous
monkey). The exon 2 of the Mhc-DQB gene (Mafa-DQB) was sequenced in each of a
random panel of 60 non-pedigreed cynomolgous monkeys. This resulted in the
detection of 23 Mafa-DQB1alleles that had not previously been published. In
addition, unreported alleles were found in chimpanzees, rhesus macaques,
orang-utans (Pongo pygmaeus) and stump-tailed macaques (Macaca arctoides), of
which a few individuals were included in this study. Phylogenetic analyses
confirm the trans-species model of evolution of the MHC-DQBlineages, in which a
group of major alleles is passed on in the phylogeny, and has led to the sharing 
of allelic lineages by different species of non-human primates. The sharing of
alleles is observed only for closely related macaque species. Furthermore, this
manuscript provides an overview of all published, and whenever necessary
corrected, non-human primate Mhc-DQB exon 2 alleles.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-002-0461-9 
PMID: 12136334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3051. J Med Microbiol. 2002 Jul;51(7):557-587. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-51-7-557.

Distribution of fim3 and flaA TTGE sequence types amongst isolates of Bordetella 
bronchiseptica from different host animals.

Shina A, Hart CA, Stenton MD, Dawson S(1), McCracken CM(1), Binns SH(1), Gaskell 
RM(1), Winstanley C.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Medical Microbiology and Genito-Urinary Medicine, *Veterinary
Pathology and â€ Veterinary Clinical Science and Animal Husbandry, University of
Liverpool, PO Box 147, Liverpool L69 3GA.

Isolates of Bordetella bronchiseptica associated with different animal hosts were
analysed by fim3 and flaA genotyping by temporal temperature gradient gel
electrophoresis (TTGE). All the isolates from cats (n = 138), dogs (n = 42) and
pigs (n = 13) could be assigned to one of two fim3 and one of three flaA TTGE
sequence types, respectively. Two avian isolates and a marmoset isolate exhibited
novel fim3 sequence types. Dominant but different TTGE sequence types were
apparent in isolates from dogs and pigs for both fim3 (87.5% and 100%,
respectively, of isolates were the dominant type) and flaA (95% and 92%,
respectively, of isolates were the dominant type). There was a wider distribution
of TTGE sequence types amongst cat isolates. As both fimbriae and flagella have
been implicated in adherence of bordetellae to host cells, sequence variations in
fimbrial proteins and FlaA may have a role to play in host preferences.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-51-7-557 
PMID: 12132771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

