

3052. Ann Nucl Med. 2002 May;16(3):189-200.

Evaluation of radioiodinated 5-iodo-3-(2(S)-azetidinylmethoxy)pyridine as a
ligand for SPECT investigations of brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.

Saji H(1), Ogawa M, Ueda M, Iida Y, Magata Y, Tominaga A, Kawashima H, Kitamura
Y, Nakagawa M, Kiyono Y, Mukai T.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyoto University, Japan.
hsaji@pharm.kyoto-u.ac.jp

5-Iodo-3-(2(S)-azetidinylmethoxy)pyridine (5IA), an A-85380 analog iodinated at
the 5-position of the pyridine ring, was evaluated as a radiopharmaceutical for
investigating brain nicotinic acethylcholine receptors (nAChRs) by single photon 
emission computed tomography (SPECT). [123/125I]5IA was synthesized by the
iododestannylation reaction under no-carrier-added conditions and purified by
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with high radiochemical yield
(50%), high radiochemical purity (> 98%), and high specific radioactivity (> 55
GBq/micromol). The binding affinity of 5IA for brain nAChRs was measured in terms
of displacement of [3H]cytisine and [125I]5IA from binding sites in rat cortical 
membranes. The binding data revealed that the affinity of 5IA was the same as
that of A-85380 and more than seven fold higher than that of (-)-nicotine, and
that 5IA bound selectively to the alpha4beta2 nAChR subtype. Biodistribution
studies in rats indicated that the brain uptake of [125I]51A was rapid and
profound. Regional cerebral distribution studies in rats demonstrated that the
accumulation of [125I]5IA was consistent with the density of high affinity nAChRs
with highest uptake observed in the nAChR-rich thalamus, moderate uptake in the
cortex and lowest uptake in the cerebellum. Administration of the nAChR agonists 
(-)-cytisine and (-)-nicotine reduced the uptake of [125I]5IA in all regions
studied with most pronounced reduction in the thalamus, and resulted in similar
levels of radioactivity throughout the brain. [125I]5IA binding sites were shown 
to be saturable with unlabeled 5IA. Behavioral studies in mice demonstrated that 
5IA did not show signs of behavioral toxicity. Furthermore, SPECT studies with
[123I]5IA in the common marmoset demonstrated appropriate brain uptake and
regional localization for a high-affinity nAChR imaging radiopharmaceutical.
These results suggested that [123I]5IA is a promising radiopharmaceutical for
SPECT studies of central nAChRs in human subjects.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02996300 
PMID: 12126044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3053. Dev Psychobiol. 2002 Jul;41(1):37-49.

Morphine administration selectively facilitates social play in common marmosets.

Guard HJ(1), Newman JD, Roberts RL.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, Poolesville, MD 20837, USA.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) form extended families, and several cohorts
of young may reside together. Play is shown extensively among the offspring. We
hypothesized that opiate activity modulates social play, and predicted that
administration of morphine (0.5 mg/kg) would facilitate social play, whereas
pretreatment with naloxone (0.5 mg/kg) would block morphine's effects. Morphine
administration was associated with significantly increased social play, and the
effect of morphine was attributable to the focal subject, since play initiated by
others was unaffected by treatment. Non-social categories of play, such as object
manipulation and locomotor play, and affiliative behaviors, such as time spent
huddled, were unaffected by treatment. Twittering and play face, behaviors used
by young during play, also increased after morphine administration. Pretreatment 
with naloxone blocked morphine's effects. Total activity was significantly
increased by morphine administration. We conclude that social play is
specifically facilitated by opiate activation, whereas other categories of play
behavior and social behavior were unaffected by morphine. Thus, social play
represents a distinct category of social behavior in juvenile common marmosets
with regulatory processes that are unique from other types of social behavior.

Published 2002 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.10043 
PMID: 12115289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

