

3054. Magn Reson Med. 2002 Jun;47(6):1131-8.

Theory of nonexponential NMR signal decay in liver with iron overload or
superparamagnetic iron oxide particles.

Jensen JH(1), Chandra R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, New
York 10016, USA.

A quantitative theory is proposed for the nonexponential NMR proton signal decay 
observed in liver with iron overload or superparamagnetic iron oxide particles.
This effect occurs for Carr-Purcell-Meiboom-Gill (CPMG) sequences and is argued
to be a direct consequence of the strong magnetic field inhomogeneities generated
by the iron, rather than being due to tissue compartments. An approximate
mathematical form is given for the signal decay, which is fit to experimental
data for samples of rat liver with iron oxide particles, for samples of marmoset 
liver with hemosiderosis, and for in vivo human liver with hereditary
hemochromatosis. The fitting parameters obtained are consistent with the pattern 
of iron deposition determined from histology. For the case of hereditary
hemochromatosis, a good correlation is found between a parameter characterizing
the nonexponential decay and the iron concentration. Implications for practical
MR quantification of hepatic iron are discussed.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.10170 
PMID: 12111959  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3055. Riv Biol. 2002 Jan-Apr;95(1):75-100.

The concept of species and the foundations of biology, a case study: the
Callithrix jacchus group (Primates-Platyrrhini).

Veracini C(1), Galleni L, Forti M.

Author information: 
(1)Centro Interdisciplinare per lo Studio dei Sistemi Complessi, Universit√† di
Pisa, Pisa, Italy. cpfveracini@yahoo.com

The axiomatic theory presented in Galleni and Forti [1999], being part of the
foundational programme of Ennio De Giorgi, is based on the fundamental notions of
quality, relation, operation and collection, and provides a very general
axiomatization of the biological notions of living object, generation, species
and speciation. Within this theoretical framework we consider here a difficult
case of classification of species: the Callithrix jacchus group of the New World 
monkeys. Although the morphological analysis strongly suggests the individuation 
of six different species, nevertheless several experiments of crossing give
evidence to fertility of hybrids. Since both the morphological and the
hybridological criteria have shown to be of enormous importance in actual
classification of species, this apparent contradiction seems very disappointing. 
Our axiomatization of speciation processes as operations acting in special time
intervals permits to avoid the contradiction by allowing for individuals which,
during such special periods, may belong to more than one species. Therefore we
assume that one or more speciation processes are developing, starting from a
unique protospecies and differentiating in six new ones. In order to obtain more 
evidence of these processes, new observations and suitable experiments are
needed.


PMID: 12109272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

