

3056. Arch Toxicol. 2002 Jun;76(5-6):360-6. Epub 2002 Apr 11.

Low doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p-dioxin increase transforming growth
factor beta and cause myocardial fibrosis in marmosets ( Callithrix jacchus).

Riecke K(1), Grimm D, Shakibaei M, Kossmehl P, Schulze-Tanzil G, Paul M,
Stahlmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology (Dept. of Toxicology),
Benjamin Franklin Medical Center, Freie Universit√§t Berlin, Garystrasse 5, 14195 
Berlin, Germany.

Epidemiological studies have suggested an association between exposure to dioxins
and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. However, cardiotoxic effects of low
doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p-dioxin (TCDD) in animals have not been
reported so far. We studied the hearts of male marmosets ( Callithrix
jacchus)after treatment with single subcutaneous doses of 1, 10 or 100 ng TCDD/kg
body weight or vehicle (toluene/DMSO 1+2 v/v, 100 microl/kg body weight). The
animals were killed 2 or 4 weeks after treatment. Tissue samples of left
ventricular myocardium were stained with picrosirius red and examined
histologically along with quantitative image analysis. Extracellular matrix
proteins were additionally analysed by western blotting. Monkeys showed no overt 
signs of toxicity nor did their relative heart weights differ significantly
depending on treatment. Histology revealed an increase of picrosirius
red-positive area above control values in 2 of 4 (1 ng TCDD/kg body weight), 6 of
12 (10 ng/kg) and 6 of 10 (100 ng/kg) marmosets. Western blotting confirmed these
histological findings showing an increase of collagen, fibronectin and laminin in
the hearts of TCDD-treated animals. Western blotting additionally showed an
increased concentration of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) as well
as TGF-beta receptor type I which could be a functional link to the effects on
extracellular matrix. Our findings might explain the association of TCDD exposure
with increased cardiovascular mortality observed in epidemiological studies and
should stimulate further research on the role of changes in the extracellular
matrix in the toxic effects of dioxins and related substances on other organs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-002-0338-6 
PMID: 12107654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3057. J Neurosci. 2002 Jul 1;22(13):5705-12.

Functional domains in dorsal striatum of the nonhuman primate are defined by the 
dynamic behavior of dopamine.

Cragg SJ(1), Hille CJ, Greenfield SA.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Oxford OX1 3QT, United Kingdom.
stephanie.cragg@pharm.ox.ac.uk

The dorsal striatum comprises a continuum of distinct functional domains, limbic,
associative, and sensorimotor. In the primate it exclusively subdivides further
into two nuclei, the putamen and caudate. Dopamine (DA) transmission is
differentially affected between these nuclei in neurodegenerative diseases such
as Parkinson's and by psychostimulants such as cocaine. Because rodent systems
can offer only limited insight into DA systems of the human brain, a fuller
appreciation of DA transmission and its role in dysfunction requires direct study
in primates. DA behavior was explored in the major functional domains of the
caudate nucleus and compared with the putamen, using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry
in striatal sections from the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). There was
domain-specific variation in extracellular DA transients [i.e., concentration
([DA](o)) released by a single stimulus and the rate maximum of DA uptake,
V(max)]. Across nuclei, functional rather than anatomical regions were
differentiated by these dynamics. The largest, fastest DA transients were at
motor-associated loci. Evoked [DA](o) at physiological frequencies was
differently frequency-sensitive between functional domains but not between
anatomical nuclei. In contrast, presynaptic depression was not an index of
regional differentiation, recovering with similar kinetics at all loci. Within a 
given functional domain of dorsal striatum, the dynamics of DA release and uptake
are similar for the putamen and the caudate nucleus. Conversely, distinct
functional domains are defined by these DA dynamics, in a manner more marked in
primates than in rodents. These data from the primate brain highlight differences
in DA availability that may be central to DA function and dysfunction in the
human.

DOI: 20026534 
PMCID: PMC6758186
PMID: 12097522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

