

306. Science. 2020 Jul 31;369(6503):546-550. doi: 10.1126/science.abb2401. Epub 2020
Jun 18.

Human-specific ARHGAP11B increases size and folding of primate neocortex in the
fetal marmoset.

Heide M(1), Haffner C(2), Murayama A(3)(4), Kurotaki Y(5), Shinohara H(5), Okano 
H(3)(4), Sasaki E(5), Huttner WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, 01307 Dresden,
Germany. heide@mpi-cbg.de huttner@mpi-cbg.de.
(2)Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, 01307 Dresden,
Germany.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo 160-8582, 
Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Wako City, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(5)Department of Marmoset Biology and Medicine, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki 210-0821, Japan.

Comment in
    Science. 2020 Jul 31;369(6503):506-507.

The neocortex has expanded during mammalian evolution. Overexpression studies in 
developing mouse and ferret neocortex have implicated the human-specific gene
ARHGAP11B in neocortical expansion, but the relevance for primate evolution has
been unclear. Here, we provide functional evidence that ARHGAP11B causes
expansion of the primate neocortex. ARHGAP11B expressed in fetal neocortex of the
common marmoset under control of the gene's own (human) promoter increased the
numbers of basal radial glia progenitors in the marmoset outer subventricular
zone, increased the numbers of upper-layer neurons, enlarged the neocortex, and
induced its folding. Thus, the human-specific ARHGAP11B drives changes in
development in the nonhuman primate marmoset that reflect the changes in
evolution that characterize human neocortical development.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American
Association for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original U.S. Government 
Works.

DOI: 10.1126/science.abb2401 
PMID: 32554627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Ecol Evol. 2020 Apr 12;10(11):4691-4701. doi: 10.1002/ece3.6224. eCollection 2020
Jun.

What smells? Developing in-field methods to characterize the chemical composition
of wild mammalian scent cues.

Thompson CL(1), Bottenberg KN(1), Lantz AW(2), de Oliveira MAB(3), Melo LCO(3),
Vinyard CJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences Grand Valley State University Allendale MI
USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry Grand Valley State University Allendale MI USA.
(3)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal Universidade Federal Rural de
Pernambuco Recife Brazil.
(4)Department of Anatomy & Neurobiology Northeast Ohio Medical University
Rootstown OH USA.

Olfactory cues play an important role in mammalian biology, but have been
challenging to assess in the field. Current methods pose problematic issues with 
sample storage and transportation, limiting our ability to connect chemical
variation in scents with relevant ecological and behavioral contexts. Real-time, 
in-field analysis via portable gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) has
the potential to overcome these issues, but with trade-offs of reduced
sensitivity and compound mass range. We field-tested the ability of portable
GC-MS to support two representative applications of chemical ecology research
with a wild arboreal primate, common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). We
developed methods to (a) evaluate the chemical composition of marmoset scent
marks deposited at feeding sites and (b) characterize the scent profiles of
exudates eaten by marmosets. We successfully collected marmoset scent marks
across several canopy heights, with the portable GC-MS detecting known components
of marmoset glandular secretions and differentiating these from in-field
controls. Likewise, variation in the chemical profile of scent marks demonstrated
a significant correlation with marmoset feeding behavior, indicating these
scents' biological relevance. The portable GC-MS also delineated species-specific
olfactory signatures of exudates fed on by marmosets. Despite the trade-offs,
portable GC-MS represents a viable option for characterizing olfactory compounds 
used by wild mammals, yielding biologically relevant data. While the decision to 
adopt portable GC-MS will likely depend on site- and project-specific needs, our 
ability to conduct two example applications under relatively challenging field
conditions bodes well for the versatility of in-field GC-MS.

© 2020 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.6224 
PMCID: PMC7297786
PMID: 32551053 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
declare.

