

3060. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 1999 Sep;38(5):27-31.

Puzzle Feeders and Gum Feeders as Environmental Enrichment for Common Marmosets.

Roberts RL(1), Roytburd LA, Newman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, PO Box 529, Poolesville, MD 20837.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) are highly social New World monkeys
that consume a principally gummivorous and insectivorous diet. We examined the
efficacy of two types of foraging devices, Puzzle-Feeders(tm) and gum feeders, as
environmental enrichment for marmosets housed singly (n = 16) or in sibling (n = 
4) and heterosexual (n = 8) pairs. In experiment 1, marmosets were exposed to
each of the two types of foraging devices for three hours, once per week for two 
weeks. Thirty-minute observations were conducted at the beginning and end of each
exposure period. Marmosets in all housing conditions experienced significant
reductions in the frequency of stereotyped pacing and significantly less time
sitting still while exposed to the foraging devices. Marmosets experienced
significantly lower levels of feeder use and significantly more time sitting
still at the end of the three-hour exposure than at the beginning. Marmosets that
were singly or sibling housed used the devices the most and had the largest
reductions in time spent sitting still during enrichment. In experiment 2, singly
housed marmosets were given two types of gum feeders, a wooden and a Gumabone(tm)
gum feeder, each for a week-long period. Thirty-minute observations were
conducted three times per week immediately after loading the feeders with fresh
gum. The wooden gum feeders were heavily gouged during the week-long exposure,
although significantly less use of both types of gum feeders was observed on the 
third and fifth days. These results indicated that marmosets in variable social
housing conditions can benefit from environmental enrichment additional to social
housing, and that foraging enrichment promotes increased non-stereotyped movement
and decreased pacing in this species.


PMID: 12086412 


3061. Peptides. 2002 May;23(5):967-73.

Anxiolytic-like effects of substance P fragment (SP(1-7)) in non-human primates
(Callithrix penicillata).

Barros M(1), De Souza Silva MA, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, Primate Center and Department of Physiological
Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, C.P. 04631, DF, Bras√≠lia,
Brazil.

The behavioral effects of the amino (N)-terminal fragment of substance P
(SP(1-7)) on the marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) predator confrontation test of
fear/anxiety were investigated. The test apparatus consisted of a figure-eight
maze with three parallel arms interconnected at each extremity to a perpendicular
arm. A taxidermized oncilla cat (Felis tigrina) was placed outside the maze
facing one of its corners. Subjects were submitted to seven 30 min maze
habituation trials (HTs), in the absence of the 'predator', and then to six 30
min treatment trials (TTs), in the presence of the 'predator', consisting of four
doses of SP(1-7) (5, 50, 250 and 500 microg/kg; IP), saline and sham injection.
SP(1-7) treatment reversed, in a dose-dependent way, the fear-induced avoidance
behavior due to the predator's presence and increased the frequency of
exploratory behaviors. Locomotor activity decreased during successive HTs, yet
increased after all SP(1-7) treatments. These results indicate that systemic
administration of SP(1-7) produces anxiolytic-like effects in marmosets tested in
the predator confrontation model of fear/anxiety.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-9781(02)00020-7 
PMID: 12084529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

