

3061. Peptides. 2002 May;23(5):967-73.

Anxiolytic-like effects of substance P fragment (SP(1-7)) in non-human primates
(Callithrix penicillata).

Barros M(1), De Souza Silva MA, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, Primate Center and Department of Physiological
Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, C.P. 04631, DF, Brasília,
Brazil.

The behavioral effects of the amino (N)-terminal fragment of substance P
(SP(1-7)) on the marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) predator confrontation test of
fear/anxiety were investigated. The test apparatus consisted of a figure-eight
maze with three parallel arms interconnected at each extremity to a perpendicular
arm. A taxidermized oncilla cat (Felis tigrina) was placed outside the maze
facing one of its corners. Subjects were submitted to seven 30 min maze
habituation trials (HTs), in the absence of the 'predator', and then to six 30
min treatment trials (TTs), in the presence of the 'predator', consisting of four
doses of SP(1-7) (5, 50, 250 and 500 microg/kg; IP), saline and sham injection.
SP(1-7) treatment reversed, in a dose-dependent way, the fear-induced avoidance
behavior due to the predator's presence and increased the frequency of
exploratory behaviors. Locomotor activity decreased during successive HTs, yet
increased after all SP(1-7) treatments. These results indicate that systemic
administration of SP(1-7) produces anxiolytic-like effects in marmosets tested in
the predator confrontation model of fear/anxiety.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-9781(02)00020-7 
PMID: 12084529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3062. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2002 Aug;73(1):259-69.

Early deprivation and behavioral and physiological responses to social
separation/novelty in the marmoset.

Dettling AC(1), Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zürich, Schwerzenbach Research Unit, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach,
Switzerland.

Long-term effects of adverse early environment on neurobehavioral development
have been reported for rodents and primates. The present study used daily early
deprivation (ED), a paradigm developed for rats, for the first time in a nonhuman
primate, the common marmoset, and investigated its effects on the behavioral and 
physiological responses to social separation/novelty (SSN) challenge tests in
juveniles. On postnatal days (PNDs) 2-28, infants (n=5 twin pairs) were removed
from the parents and placed alone in an isolation chamber for 30-120 min (9
h/week). Parents and control subjects (n=5 twin pairs) were briefly restrained
(CON). At Weeks 18-20, behavioral responses of ED and CON juveniles to six 60-min
SSN tests in an isolated cage, comprising 45 min alone and 15 min reunion with
the father, were measured. Baseline and post-test urine samples were collected
for measurement of cortisol. ED subjects exhibited significantly lower basal SSN 
urinary cortisol than CON, whilst SSN response cortisol values were similar in ED
and CON. When alone, ED subjects were significantly less mobile and emitted
significantly less contact calls than CON. Following reunion, ED subjects were
significantly less in contact with or being carried by the father than CON and
demonstrated significantly more tail piloerection. Although they require
validation by additional parameters (e.g. cardiovascular), these data strongly
suggest that early-life stress alters endocrine and behavioral responsiveness to 
psychosocial challenge in this primate and in a direction that could model
important changes in disorders of human affective state.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(02)00785-2 
PMID: 12076744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

