

3062. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2002 Aug;73(1):259-69.

Early deprivation and behavioral and physiological responses to social
separation/novelty in the marmoset.

Dettling AC(1), Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
ZÃ¼rich, Schwerzenbach Research Unit, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach,
Switzerland.

Long-term effects of adverse early environment on neurobehavioral development
have been reported for rodents and primates. The present study used daily early
deprivation (ED), a paradigm developed for rats, for the first time in a nonhuman
primate, the common marmoset, and investigated its effects on the behavioral and 
physiological responses to social separation/novelty (SSN) challenge tests in
juveniles. On postnatal days (PNDs) 2-28, infants (n=5 twin pairs) were removed
from the parents and placed alone in an isolation chamber for 30-120 min (9
h/week). Parents and control subjects (n=5 twin pairs) were briefly restrained
(CON). At Weeks 18-20, behavioral responses of ED and CON juveniles to six 60-min
SSN tests in an isolated cage, comprising 45 min alone and 15 min reunion with
the father, were measured. Baseline and post-test urine samples were collected
for measurement of cortisol. ED subjects exhibited significantly lower basal SSN 
urinary cortisol than CON, whilst SSN response cortisol values were similar in ED
and CON. When alone, ED subjects were significantly less mobile and emitted
significantly less contact calls than CON. Following reunion, ED subjects were
significantly less in contact with or being carried by the father than CON and
demonstrated significantly more tail piloerection. Although they require
validation by additional parameters (e.g. cardiovascular), these data strongly
suggest that early-life stress alters endocrine and behavioral responsiveness to 
psychosocial challenge in this primate and in a direction that could model
important changes in disorders of human affective state.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(02)00785-2 
PMID: 12076744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3063. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2002 Feb;109(2):123-40.

The actions of a D-1 agonist in MPTP treated primates show dependence on both D-1
and D-2 receptor function and tolerance on repeated administration.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Al-Barghouthy G, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

The potent and long acting D-1 receptor agonist, A-77636 reverses motor deficits 
in MPTP treated common marmosets following subcutaneous or oral administration.
We now explore the effects of acute versus repeated administration of A-77636 and
the relative roles of D-1 and D-2 receptor involvement in its antiparkinsonian
actions. Acute oral administration (0.18-9.0 mg/kg) or subcutaneous
administration (0.036-1.08 mg/kg) of A-77636 produced well co-ordinated bouts of 
discontinuous locomotor activity. There was no evidence of repetitive or
stereotyped movements. However, oral administration of A-77636 (1.44 mg/kg) on
alternate days for 10 days produced tolerance to the increase in locomotor
activity and improvement of disability. Pretreatment with the D-1 antagonist SCH 
23390 (0.625, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), produced a dose dependent
reduction in locomotor activity and antagonised the reduction in disability
scores following administration of A-77636 (0.36 mg/kg, subcutaneously). The
inhibitory effects of SCH 23390 lasted for some 2-5 hours after which the
activity of A-77636 was gradually restored. Unexpectedly, pretreatment with the
D-2 antagonist raclopride (1.25, 5.0 or 20.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneally),
dramatically diminished the antiparkinsonian effects of A-77636 (0.36 mg/kg,
subcutaneously) in a dose dependent manner. The dependence of the
antiparkinsonian activity of A-77636 on intact D-2 receptor function, suggests a 
need for endogenous D-2 receptor tone to express D-1 mediated locomotor activity.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020200009 
PMID: 12075853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

