

3063. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2002 Feb;109(2):123-40.

The actions of a D-1 agonist in MPTP treated primates show dependence on both D-1
and D-2 receptor function and tolerance on repeated administration.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Al-Barghouthy G, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

The potent and long acting D-1 receptor agonist, A-77636 reverses motor deficits 
in MPTP treated common marmosets following subcutaneous or oral administration.
We now explore the effects of acute versus repeated administration of A-77636 and
the relative roles of D-1 and D-2 receptor involvement in its antiparkinsonian
actions. Acute oral administration (0.18-9.0 mg/kg) or subcutaneous
administration (0.036-1.08 mg/kg) of A-77636 produced well co-ordinated bouts of 
discontinuous locomotor activity. There was no evidence of repetitive or
stereotyped movements. However, oral administration of A-77636 (1.44 mg/kg) on
alternate days for 10 days produced tolerance to the increase in locomotor
activity and improvement of disability. Pretreatment with the D-1 antagonist SCH 
23390 (0.625, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), produced a dose dependent
reduction in locomotor activity and antagonised the reduction in disability
scores following administration of A-77636 (0.36 mg/kg, subcutaneously). The
inhibitory effects of SCH 23390 lasted for some 2-5 hours after which the
activity of A-77636 was gradually restored. Unexpectedly, pretreatment with the
D-2 antagonist raclopride (1.25, 5.0 or 20.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneally),
dramatically diminished the antiparkinsonian effects of A-77636 (0.36 mg/kg,
subcutaneously) in a dose dependent manner. The dependence of the
antiparkinsonian activity of A-77636 on intact D-2 receptor function, suggests a 
need for endogenous D-2 receptor tone to express D-1 mediated locomotor activity.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020200009 
PMID: 12075853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3064. J Gen Virol. 2002 Jul;83(Pt 7):1621-1633. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-83-7-1621.

Characterization of an Epstein-Barr virus-related gammaherpesvirus from common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jenson HB(1), Ench Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Gao SJ(1), Arrand JR(2), Mackett M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pediatrics1 and Microbiology2, The University of Texas Health
Science Center, 7703 Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX 78229-3900, USA.
(2)Paterson Institute for Cancer Research, Christie Hospital NHS Trust,
Manchester, UK3.

A gammaherpesvirus related to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV; Human herpesvirus 4)
infects otherwise healthy common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Long-term
culture of common marmoset peripheral blood lymphocytes resulted in outgrowth of 
spontaneously immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines, primarily of B cell
lineage. Electron microscopy of cells and supernatants showed herpesvirus
particles. There were high rates of serological cross-reactivity to other
herpesviruses (68-86%), but with very low geometric mean antibody titres [1:12 to
human herpesvirus 6 and 1:14 to Herpesvirus papio (Cercopithecine herpesvirus
12)]. Sequence analysis of the conserved herpesvirus DNA polymerase gene showed
that the virus is a member of the lymphocryptovirus subgroup and is most closely 
related to a lymphocryptovirus from rhesus macaques and is closely related to EBV
and Herpesvirus papio. High seroprevalence (79%, with geometric mean antibody
titre of 1:110) among 28 common marmosets from two geographically distinct
colonies indicated that the virus is likely present in many common marmosets in
captivity. A New World primate harbouring a lymphocryptovirus suggests that this 
subgroup arose much earlier than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-83-7-1621 
PMID: 12075080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

