

3064. J Gen Virol. 2002 Jul;83(Pt 7):1621-1633. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-83-7-1621.

Characterization of an Epstein-Barr virus-related gammaherpesvirus from common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jenson HB(1), Ench Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Gao SJ(1), Arrand JR(2), Mackett M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pediatrics1 and Microbiology2, The University of Texas Health
Science Center, 7703 Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX 78229-3900, USA.
(2)Paterson Institute for Cancer Research, Christie Hospital NHS Trust,
Manchester, UK3.

A gammaherpesvirus related to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV; Human herpesvirus 4)
infects otherwise healthy common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Long-term
culture of common marmoset peripheral blood lymphocytes resulted in outgrowth of 
spontaneously immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines, primarily of B cell
lineage. Electron microscopy of cells and supernatants showed herpesvirus
particles. There were high rates of serological cross-reactivity to other
herpesviruses (68-86%), but with very low geometric mean antibody titres [1:12 to
human herpesvirus 6 and 1:14 to Herpesvirus papio (Cercopithecine herpesvirus
12)]. Sequence analysis of the conserved herpesvirus DNA polymerase gene showed
that the virus is a member of the lymphocryptovirus subgroup and is most closely 
related to a lymphocryptovirus from rhesus macaques and is closely related to EBV
and Herpesvirus papio. High seroprevalence (79%, with geometric mean antibody
titre of 1:110) among 28 common marmosets from two geographically distinct
colonies indicated that the virus is likely present in many common marmosets in
captivity. A New World primate harbouring a lymphocryptovirus suggests that this 
subgroup arose much earlier than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-83-7-1621 
PMID: 12075080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3065. Endocrinology. 2002 Jul;143(7):2797-807.

Prevention of thecal angiogenesis, antral follicular growth, and ovulation in the
primate by treatment with vascular endothelial growth factor Trap R1R2.

Wulff C(1), Wilson H, Wiegand SJ, Rudge JS, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh, United 
Kingdom EH3 9ET. christine-wulff@onlinehome.de

This study was designed to investigate the effects of inhibition of thecal
angiogenesis on follicular development in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus). To inhibit vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a soluble
combined truncated form of the fms-like tyrosine kinase (Flt) and kinase insert
domain-containing receptor (KDR) receptor fused to IgG (VEGF Trap R1R2) was
administered for 10 d during the follicular phase of the cycle. Changes in
angiogenesis and follicular cell proliferation were quantified using
immunocytochemistry for bromodeoxyuridine to obtain a proliferation index, CD31
to visualize endothelial cell area, and dual staining to distinguish thecal
endothelial cell proliferation. The effects of the treatment on follicular
development were assessed by morphometric analyses by measuring follicle
diameter, thecal thickness, and a proliferation index for granulosa cells.
Follicular atresia was detected and quantified using the terminal
deoxynucleotidyltransferase-UTP nick end labeling method. Effects on gene
expression of VEGF and its receptors, Flt and KDR, were studied by in situ
hybridization. VEGF Trap R1R2 treatment resulted in a significant decrease in
thecal proliferation and endothelial cell area, demonstrating the suppression of 
thecal angiogenesis. The absence of a normal thecal vasculature was associated
with a significantly reduced thecal thickness. Antral follicular development was 
severely compromised, as indicated by decreased granulosa cell proliferation,
decreased follicular diameter, and lack of development of ovulatory follicles.
Furthermore, the rate of atresia was significantly increased. VEGF expression in 
granulosa and thecal cells increased after treatment, whereas Flt and KDR
expressions in thecal endothelial cells were markedly decreased. These results
show that VEGF Trap treatment is associated with the suppression of follicular
angiogenesis, which results in the inhibition of antral follicular development
and ovulation.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.143.7.8886 
PMID: 12072415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

