

3067. Eur J Pharmacol. 2002 May 10;442(3):187-93.

Binding properties of the novel, non-peptide CGRP receptor antagonist
radioligand, [(3)H]BIBN4096BS.

Schindler M(1), Doods HN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Research I, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG,
Birkendorfer Strasse 65, 88397 Biberach, Germany.
marcus.schindler@bc.boehringer-ingelheim.de

BIBN4096BS
[[R-(R,(R*,S*)]-N-[2-[[5-amino-1-[[4-(4-pyridinyl)-1-piperazinyl]carbonyl]
pentyl]amino]-1-[(3,5-dibromo-4-hydroxyphenyl)methyl]-2-oxoethyl]-4-(1,4-dihydro-
2-oxo-3(2H)-quinazolinyl)-,1-Piperidinecarboxamide] is a selective calcitonin
gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist with a picomolar affinity to the 
CGRP receptor in human neuroblastoma SK-N-MC cells. Here, we describe the
characterisation of the binding properties of the tritiated radioanalogue of
BIBN4096BS in SK-N-MC cells as well as in marmoset tissue. [(3)H]BIBN4096BS
showed reversible and saturable binding to SK-N-MC cells with a K(D) of 0.045 nM.
In competition experiments, [3(H)]BIBN4096BS is concentration-dependently
displaced from SK-N-MC cell membranes by BIBN4096BS as well as by the endogenous 
ligand CGRP and its analogues with the rank order of affinity BIBN4096BS>human
alpha-CGRP=human beta-CGRP>[Cys(Et)(2,7)]human alpha-CGRP>adrenomedullin (high
affinity site)=human alpha-CGRP-(8-37)=human beta-CGRP-(8-37)>calcitonin=amylin. 
In the marmoset cortex, saturable [(3)H]BIBN4096BS binding was observed with a
K(D) of 0.077 nM. CGRP showed biphasic competition of [(3)H]BIBN4096BS binding,
whilst BIBN4096BS monophasically displaced its radioanalogue with a K(i) of 0.099
nM. These data, using [(3)H]BIBN4096BS, confirm the high affinity of this novel
antagonist for the primate CGRP receptor and demonstrate furthermore that this
radioligand is a useful tool to study CGRP receptor pharmacology.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(02)01544-3 
PMID: 12065071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3068. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Jun 11;99(12):8207-12.

Molecular characterization of antibody specificities against
myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in autoimmune demyelination.

von BÃ¼dingen HC(1), Hauser SL, Fuhrmann A, Nabavi CB, Lee JI, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, Box 0114, 505
Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143-0114, USA.

Myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a target antigen for
myelin-destructive Abs in autoimmune central nervous system demyelinating
disorders. Little is known about the molecular and structural basis of these
pathogenic Ab responses. Here, we have characterized anti-MOG Ab specificities in
the marmoset model of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, by means of a
combinatorial IgG-Fab library. We found that a diverse population of Ig genes
encodes for auto-Abs that exclusively recognize conformation-dependent antigenic 
targets on MOG. These antigenic domains correspond to exposed epitopes in vivo,
as the Fab fragments recognize native MOG in situ in marmoset brain tissue. The
Ab fragments described here represent Ab specificities that are common
constituents of the humoral immune repertoire against MOG in outbred populations,
as demonstrated by their ability to displace native anti-MOG Abs present in sera 
from MOG-immune marmosets and patients with multiple sclerosis. Furthermore,
neuropathological analysis and characterization of Ab epitope specificities in
animals immunized with MOG or MOG-derived peptides revealed that only
conformation-dependent Abs are associated with demyelinating activity, suggesting
that epitope recognition is an important factor for Ab pathogenicity. Our
findings provide novel and unexpected knowledge on the diversity of anti-MOG Ab
responses in nonhuman primates and humans, and will permit the dissection of
pathogenic auto-Ab properties in multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.122092499 
PMCID: PMC123046
PMID: 12060766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

