

3069. J Toxicol Sci. 2002 May;27(2):123-30.

Development of telemetry system in the common marmoset--cardiovascular effects of
astemizole and nicardipine.

Horii I(1), Kito G, Hamada T, Jikuzono T, Kobayashi K, Hashimoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Nippon Roche Research Center, 200 Kajiwara, Kamakura, Kanagawa 247-8530,
Japan.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate a telemetry system for examining the
cardiovascular system in the conscious common marmoset. Parameters obtained were 
blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, ECG, body temperature and locomotor
activity, and these were continuously recorded on a data recorder via the
telemetry system and then processed by a computerized system. Diurnal rhythms of 
blood pressure, heart rate, body temperature and locomotor activity were observed
in this system. We studied the effects of astemizole (antihistamine) and
nicardipine (Ca2+ channel blocker) on cardiovascular parameters. Astemizole at 30
mg/kg (p.o.) and at 1 to 3 mg/kg (i.v.), prolonged QT interval and induced
ventricular extrasystole. Torsades de pointes occurred in one of three cases at 3
mg/kg (i.v.) and 30 mg/kg (p.o.), while it did not affect the blood pressure,
respiratory rate and body temperature. Nicardipine at 30 mg/kg (p.o.) caused
sustained hypotension and tachycardia. These results demonstrate the usefulness
of the telemetry system using the common marmoset for evaluating the
cardiovascular effects of drugs under physiological conditions.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.27.123 
PMID: 12058448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3070. Behav Processes. 2002 Jun 28;58(3):149-155.

Working memory of action: a comparative study of ability to selecting response
based on previous action in New World monkeys (Saimiri sciureus and Callithrix
jacchus).

Tsujimoto S(1), Sawaguchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Hokkaido University, N10W7, Kita-ku, 060-0810,
Sapporo, Japan

Working memory of the outcome of one's own action is important for organizing and
learning appropriate behaviors in a given condition. To examine whether non-human
primates with different neocortical sizes show different abilities regarding
working memory for action, the performance of squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus)
and common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in a kind of delayed-response task was 
compared. In this task, subjects were required to select a response based on
short-term memory of the outcome of their own prior action, which requires
working memory of action. These monkeys have a similar phylogenetic status (i.e. 
Ceboidea), but the size of the neocortex relative to the rest of the brain
(relative size of the neocortex) is quite different. We found that both two
species could attend to and remember their own actions and could select a
response based on that memory. However, the performance level was higher for
squirrel monkeys than for marmosets. These results suggest that non-human
primates with differentially developed neocortices have different abilities
regarding working memory of action.

DOI: 10.1016/s0376-6357(02)00041-4 
PMID: 12044691 

