

3070. Behav Processes. 2002 Jun 28;58(3):149-155.

Working memory of action: a comparative study of ability to selecting response
based on previous action in New World monkeys (Saimiri sciureus and Callithrix
jacchus).

Tsujimoto S(1), Sawaguchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Hokkaido University, N10W7, Kita-ku, 060-0810,
Sapporo, Japan

Working memory of the outcome of one's own action is important for organizing and
learning appropriate behaviors in a given condition. To examine whether non-human
primates with different neocortical sizes show different abilities regarding
working memory for action, the performance of squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus)
and common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in a kind of delayed-response task was 
compared. In this task, subjects were required to select a response based on
short-term memory of the outcome of their own prior action, which requires
working memory of action. These monkeys have a similar phylogenetic status (i.e. 
Ceboidea), but the size of the neocortex relative to the rest of the brain
(relative size of the neocortex) is quite different. We found that both two
species could attend to and remember their own actions and could select a
response based on that memory. However, the performance level was higher for
squirrel monkeys than for marmosets. These results suggest that non-human
primates with differentially developed neocortices have different abilities
regarding working memory of action.

DOI: 10.1016/s0376-6357(02)00041-4 
PMID: 12044691 


3071. Emerg Infect Dis. 2002 Jun;8(6):639-42.

Fatal infection of a pet monkey with Human herpesvirus.

Huemer HP(1), Larcher C, Czedik-Eysenberg T, Nowotny N, Reifinger M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria. hartwig.huemer@uibk.ac.at

Concerns have been raised about pet monkeys as a potential threat to humans. We
report the opposite situation, a danger to pets that arises from humans. Similar 
to herpesvirus B (Cercopithecine herpesvirus 1), which endangers humans but not
its host species, Human herpesvirus 1 can act as a "killer virus" when crossing
the species barrier to New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.3201/eid0806.010341 
PMCID: PMC2738492
PMID: 12023925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

