

3077. J Med Primatol. 2001 Dec;30(6):299-303.

Molecular cloning of three nonhuman primate follicle stimulating hormone
beta-subunit cDNAs.

Wolfgang MJ(1), Grendell RL, Golos TG.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

The follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) beta-subunit cDNAs were cloned and
sequenced for an old world primate, the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta), and two
New World primates, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and pygmy marmoset
(Cebuella pygmaea). The cDNA and predicted amino acid sequences of the rhesus
monkey FSH beta-subunit were related most closely to the human FSH beta-subunit
(> 96% identity). The common and pygmy marmosets have identical FSH beta-subunit 
cDNAs, whereas the marmoset FSH beta-subunit diverges from the rhesus and human
molecules with less than 93% identity. These results have significance for the
implementation of assisted reproductive technologies in the nonhuman primate as
well as the evolution of genes encoding reproductive hormones.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2001.300602.x 
PMID: 11990528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3078. Hum Reprod. 2002 May;17(5):1367-78.

Testicular changes during infantile 'quiescence' in the marmoset and their
gonadotrophin dependence: a model for investigating susceptibility of the
prepubertal human testis to cancer therapy?

Kelnar CJ(1), McKinnell C, Walker M, Morris KD, Wallace WH, Saunders PT, Fraser
HM, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Child Life and Health, Department of Reproductive and Developmental
Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 1UW, UK.

BACKGROUND: Inexplicably, boys treated with some therapies for cancer at age 2-10
years, a time of supposed 'testicular quiescence', are at risk of low sperm
counts/infertility in adulthood. Our aims were to use the marmoset as a surrogate
for man to establish testicular cell function/activity during 'quiescence'
between the neonatal period and puberty, and to test if any cell activity could
be suppressed by prior treatment with a GnRH antagonist.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Based on immunoexpression studies, functional development of
Sertoli cells (SGP-2, androgen receptor) and Leydig cells (3 beta-hydroxysteroid 
dehydrogenase) was detectable at an age (35 weeks) when the testis is considered 
to be quiescent, and in advance of the pubertal rise in blood testosterone levels
(50-60 weeks). Other changes at 35 weeks were the appearance of focal
seminiferous tubule lumens and proliferating germ cells [indicated by
immunoexpression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)]. Treatment from 25
to 35 weeks with GnRH antagonist largely (>85%) prevented these changes. However,
the PCNA-labelling index of spermatogonia in GnRH antagonist-treated animals did 
not differ from controls (41.3 versus 43.6%) though total spermatogonia volume
per testis was reduced by 41%. Some protein markers (inhibin-alpha, estrogen
receptor-beta) showed little change with age or treatment. Beyond 35 weeks, GnRH 
antagonist-treated animals showed a delay in the pubertal rise in plasma
testosterone levels.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings reinforce the view that the 'childhood' testis is not
quiescent. This may explain the damaging effects of some cancer therapies on
subsequent fertility of boys and raises the issue of protective intervention. The
present studies suggest that GnRH antagonist-based intervention might be only
partially successful. Identification of the factors regulating spermatogonial
development in the infant marmoset may aid in the design of such strategies.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/17.5.1367 
PMID: 11980767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

