

3083. Comp Med. 2001 Jun;51(3):218-23.

Relations among measures of body composition, age, and sex in the common marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Power RA(1), Power ML, Layne DG, Jaquish CE, Oftedal OT, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Florida, Gainesville 32610-0144, USA.

Few studies of body composition have been done in New World primates. In the
study reported here, four methods of assessing body composition (body weight,
anthropometry, labeled-water dilution, and total body electroconductivity) were
compared in 20 marmosets, aged 0.96 to 7.97 years. Males and females did not
differ in any measure (P > 0.05). Body weight ranged from 272 to 466 g, and body 
fat estimates varied from 1.6 to 19.5%. Strong positive correlations were
observed between total body water and total body electroconductivity (R2 = 0.77),
body weight and fat-free mass (males R2 = 0.95; females R2 = 0.91), and body
weight and fat mass (males R2 = 0.86; females R2 = 0.85; P < 0.01). Male and
female slopes were equivalent (P > 0.05) for the regressions of fat and fat-free 
mass against body weight. Positive correlations also were observed between girth 
measures and fat-free mass (R2 = 0.48 to 0.78) and fat mass (R2 = 0.60 to 0.74; P
< 0.01). A good second- order polynomial relationship was observed between age
and fat-free mass for the combined sample (R2 = 0.64). Results indicated that:
subjects were lean; there was no sexual dimorphism relative to measures; body
weight provided a reliable estimate of fat and fat-free mass; and within-subject 
body weight changes reflected a similar relationship between body weight and
fat-free mass as did that across subjects.


PMID: 11924775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3084. Mov Disord. 2002 Mar;17(2):360-5.

Tardive dyskinesia model in the common marmoset.

Klintenberg R(1), Gunne L, AndrÃ©n PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2003 Jan;18(1):114-5.

Thirteen adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were given once-monthly
injections of haloperidol decanoate (5-15 mg/kg i.m.) for one year. Thereafter,
drug-free and treatment periods alternated at 3-month intervals. After 2.5 to 14 
months, 12 monkeys showed symptoms of tardive dyskinesia (TD), such as periocular
and perioral twitchings, tongue protrusions, masticatory movements, and choreic
movements in arms and legs. When TD symptoms were evident, the periodic treatment
was interrupted and symptoms persisted for at least 5 months after the last
haloperidol dose, worsened by injection of the anticholinergic drug biperiden. An
injection of nondepot haloperidol (0.12 or 0.25 mg/kg) produced a reduction of TD
symptoms. At the end of the study, nondepot haloperidol was injected once a week 
at two doses (0.12 and 0.25 mg/kg i.m.). A syndrome of excitation with peculiar
behavior, interpreted as acute dystonia, was precipitated in all animals. The
animals showed sustained retrocollis, climbing upside down, biting the perch,
repetitive turnings, and frequent backward movements. The dystonic movements
lasted approximately 6 hours and were reduced but not completely extinguished by 
biperiden (0.1 mg/kg). The TD syndrome registered in marmosets may provide a
useful model for screening new antipsychotics for their propensity to induce TD.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10070 
PMID: 11921124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

