

3084. Mov Disord. 2002 Mar;17(2):360-5.

Tardive dyskinesia model in the common marmoset.

Klintenberg R(1), Gunne L, Andr√©n PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2003 Jan;18(1):114-5.

Thirteen adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were given once-monthly
injections of haloperidol decanoate (5-15 mg/kg i.m.) for one year. Thereafter,
drug-free and treatment periods alternated at 3-month intervals. After 2.5 to 14 
months, 12 monkeys showed symptoms of tardive dyskinesia (TD), such as periocular
and perioral twitchings, tongue protrusions, masticatory movements, and choreic
movements in arms and legs. When TD symptoms were evident, the periodic treatment
was interrupted and symptoms persisted for at least 5 months after the last
haloperidol dose, worsened by injection of the anticholinergic drug biperiden. An
injection of nondepot haloperidol (0.12 or 0.25 mg/kg) produced a reduction of TD
symptoms. At the end of the study, nondepot haloperidol was injected once a week 
at two doses (0.12 and 0.25 mg/kg i.m.). A syndrome of excitation with peculiar
behavior, interpreted as acute dystonia, was precipitated in all animals. The
animals showed sustained retrocollis, climbing upside down, biting the perch,
repetitive turnings, and frequent backward movements. The dystonic movements
lasted approximately 6 hours and were reduced but not completely extinguished by 
biperiden (0.1 mg/kg). The TD syndrome registered in marmosets may provide a
useful model for screening new antipsychotics for their propensity to induce TD.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10070 
PMID: 11921124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3085. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Apr 8;445(3):238-55.

Comparison of the basal ganglia in rats, marmosets, macaques, baboons, and
humans: volume and neuronal number for the output, internal relay, and striatal
modulating nuclei.

Hardman CD(1), Henderson JM, Finkelstein DI, Horne MK, Paxinos G, Halliday GM.

Author information: 
(1)Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, Randwick, NSW 2031 Australia.
craig.hardman@med.monash.edu.au

This study compares the basal ganglia of rats, marmosets, macaques, baboons, and 
humans. It uses established protocols to estimate the volume and number of
neurons within the output nuclei (internal globus pallidus, IGP; and
nondopaminergic substantia nigra, SNND), two internal relay and modulating nuclei
(subthalamic nucleus, STh; and external globus pallidus, EGP), and a modulator of
the striatum (dopaminergic substantia nigra, SND). Nuclear boundaries were
defined by using immunohistochemistry for striatal afferents. Total numbers of
Nissl-stained and parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons were calculated by using the
fractionator technique. Comparisons between species were standardized relative to
brain mass (rats < marmosets < macaques < baboons < humans). The EGP consistently
had more neurons relative to the IGP, STh, and SND, which had similar neuronal
numbers within each species. The SNND had proportionally more neurons in rats
than in primates (especially humans). The distribution of SND neurons varied
substantially between rats and primates (very few ventrally located neurons in
rats) with humans containing fewer SND neurons than other primates. The reduction
in SND neurons in humans suggests less dopaminergic regulation of the basal
ganglia system compared with other species. The consistency in the number of IGP 
neurons across all species, combined with the reduction in SNND neurons in
humans, suggests a greater emphasis on output pathways through the IGP and that
there are proportionally more STh and EGP neurons in humans.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10165 
PMID: 11920704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

