

309. Reproduction. 2020 Aug;160(2):259-268. doi: 10.1530/REP-20-0100.

A translational cellular model for the study of peritubular cells of the testis.

Schmid N(1), Missel A(1), Petkov S(2)(3), Stöckl JB(4), Flenkenthaler F(4),
Arnold GJ(4), Fröhlich T(4), Behr R(2)(3), Mayerhofer A(1).

Author information: 
(1)LMU München, Biomedical Center (BMC), Anatomy III - Cell Biology, Martinsried,
Germany.
(2)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Laboratory for Functional Genome Analysis LAFUGA, Gene Center, LMU München,
München, Germany.

Testicular peritubular cells (TPCs) are smooth muscle-like cells, which form a
compartment surrounding the seminiferous tubules. Previous studies employing
isolated human testicular peritubular cells (HTPCs) indicated that their roles in
the testis go beyond sperm transport and include paracrine and immunological
contributions. Peritubular cells from a non-human primate (MKTPCs), the common
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, share a high degree of homology with HTPCs. 
However, like their human counterparts these cells age in vitro and replicative
senescence limits in-depth functional or mechanistic studies. Therefore, a stable
cellular model was established. MKTPCs of a young adult animal were immortalized 
by piggyBac transposition of human telomerase (hTERT), that is, without the
expression of viral oncogenes. Immortalized MKTPCs (iMKTPCs) grew without
discernable changes for more than 50 passages. An initial characterization
revealed typical genes expressed by peritubular cells (androgen receptor (AR),
smooth-muscle actin (ACTA2), calponin (CNN1)). A proteome analysis of the primary
MKTPCs and the derived immortalized cell line confirmed that the cells almost
completely retained their phenotype. To test whether they respond in a similar
way as HTPCs, iMKTPCs were challenged with forskolin (FSK) and ATP. As HTPCs,
they showed increased expression level of the StAR protein (StAR) after FSK
stimulation, indicating steroidogenic capacity. ATP increased the expression of
pro-inflammatory factors (e.g. IL1B; CCL7), as it is the case in HTPCs. Finally, 
we confirmed that iMKTPCs can efficiently be transfected. Therefore, they
represent a highly relevant translational model, which allows mechanistic studies
for further exploration of the roles of testicular peritubular cells.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-20-0100 
PMID: 32449695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Primates. 2020 Sep;61(5):707-716. doi: 10.1007/s10329-020-00824-3. Epub 2020 May 
14.

Callitrichid responses to dead and dying infants: the effects of paternal bonding
and cause of death.

Thompson CL(1), Hrit R(2), Melo LCO(3), Vinyard CJ(4), Bottenberg KN(2), de
Oliveira MAB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Grand Valley State University, Allendale,
MI, USA. thompscy@gvsu.edu.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Grand Valley State University, Allendale,
MI, USA.
(3)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal, Universidade Federal Rural de 
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University,
Rootstown, OH, USA.

Many primates show responses to dead infants, yet testing explanations for these 
behaviors has been difficult. Callitrichids present a unique opportunity to
delineate between hypotheses, since unlike most species, male caretakers form
closer social bonds with infants than mothers. Callitrichids are also known to
commit infanticide, leaving obvious wounds that may enable them to more readily
recognize death. We present: (1) a case study of a wild common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) group responding to an infant's natural death, and (2) a
review of published infant deaths across callitrichids (N = 16), testing for
trends in the sex of reacting individuals and cause of death. In our case study, 
several group members frequently interacted with the dead infant, attempting to
carry it. However, the strongest response was from a male that remained with the 
corpse for ~ 3 h, despite his group leaving the area. Across callitrichid
species, corpse interactions were significantly sex-biased: 100% (N = 6) of
accidental deaths involved corpse interaction by males (p = 0.007), compared to
60% (N = 3 of 5) by females (p = 0.095). Cause of death also played a significant
role, with individuals attempting to carry dead infants in 100% (N = 6) of
accidental deaths, but only 11.1% (N = 1 of 9) of infanticides (p = 0.001).
Although the available literature is small and potentially subject to publication
biases, these data support the idea that visually obvious wounds may influence
callitrichids' perception of dead conspecifics. Additionally, male-biased
patterns of corpse interaction in callitrichids indicate that social bonds likely
shape reactions to the dead, in addition to kinship. While published data on
primate thanatology are limited, this study demonstrates quantitative approaches 
that can provide empirical insights into primates' responses to dead
conspecifics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-020-00824-3 
PMID: 32409994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

