

3090. Biol Reprod. 2002 Mar;66(3):802-12.

Hemochorial placentation in the primate: expression of vascular endothelial
growth factor, angiopoietins, and their receptors throughout pregnancy.

Wulff C(1), Wilson H, Dickson SE, Wiegand SJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh EH3 9ET,
United Kingdom. christine-wulff@onlinehome.de

Vascular development and its transformation are necessary for successful
hemochorial placentation, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
angiopoietins, and their receptors may be involved in the molecular regulation of
this process. To determine the potential role of these putative regulators in a
widely studied primate, the common marmoset, we investigated their mRNA
expression and protein location in the placenta throughout pregnancy using in
situ hybridization, Northern blot analysis, and immunocytochemistry. VEGF was
localized in decidual and cytotrophoblast cells, and its highest expression was
found in the maternal decidua. The Flt receptor was exclusively detected in the
syncytial trophoblast with increasing expression in placentae from 10 wk to term.
Soluble Flt (sFlt) was also detectable by Northern blot analysis. KDR receptor
expression was restricted to mesenchymal cells during early placentation and to
the fetoplacental vasculature during later placentation. KDR expression increased
throughout pregnancy. Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) was localized in the syncytial
trophoblast, being highly expressed in the second half of gestation. Ang-2 mRNA
localized exclusively to maternal endothelial cells, and was highly expressed in 
10-wk placentae. The Tie-2 receptor was found in cytotrophoblast cells and in
fetal and maternal vessels. High Tie-2 levels were detected in the wall of
chorion vessels at 14-wk, 17-wk, and term placentae. These results suggest that
the processes of trophoblast invasion, maternal vascular transformation, and
fetoplacental vascular differentiation and development are regulated by the
specific actions of angiogenic ligand-receptor pairs. Specifically, 1) VEGF/Flt
and Ang-1/Tie-2 may promote trophoblast growth, 2) VEGF/KDR and Ang-1/Tie-2 may
support fetoplacental vascular development and stabilization, 3) sFlt may balance
VEGF actions, and 4) Ang-2/Tie-2 may remodel the maternal vasculature.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod66.3.802 
PMID: 11870089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3091. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 Dec;14(11):1827-32.

Increased cannabinoid CB1 receptor binding and activation of GTP-binding proteins
in the basal ganglia of patients with Parkinson's syndrome and of MPTP-treated
marmosets.

Lastres-Becker I(1), Cebeira M, de Ceballos ML, Zeng BY, Jenner P, Ramos JA,
Fern√°ndez-Ruiz JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine,
Complutense University, 28040 Madrid, Spain.

Recent evidence obtained in rat models of Parkinson's disease showed that the
density of cannabinoid CB1 receptors and their endogenous ligands increase in
basal ganglia. However, no data exists from post-mortem brain of humans affected 
by Parkinson's disease or from primate models of the disorder. In the present
study, we examined CB1 receptor binding and the magnitude of the stimulation by
WIN55,212-2, a specific CB1 receptor agonist, of [35S]GTPgammaS binding to
membrane fractions from the basal ganglia of patients affected by Parkinson's
disease. In Parkinson's disease, WIN55,212-2-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in
the caudate nucleus, putamen, lateral globus pallidus and substantia nigra was
increased, thus indicating a more effective activation of GTP-binding
protein-coupled signalling mechanisms via CB1 receptors. This was accompanied by 
an increase in CB1 receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and the putamen,
although no changes were observed in the lateral globus pallidus and the
substantia nigra. Because Parkinson's disease patients had been chronically
treated with l-DOPA, brains were studied from normal common marmosets and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated animals with and
without chronic L-DOPA treatment. MPTP-lesioned marmosets had increased CB1
receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and the putamen compared to control
marmosets, as well as increased stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding by
WIN55,212-2. However, following l-DOPA treatment these parameters returned
towards control values. The results indicate that a nigro-striatal lesion is
associated with an increase in CB1 receptors in the basal ganglia in humans and
nonhuman primates and that this increase could be reversed by chronic l-DOPA
therapy. The data suggest that CB1 receptor blockade might be useful as an
adjuvant for the treatment of parkinsonian motor symptoms.

DOI: 10.1046/j.0953-816x.2001.01812.x 
PMID: 11860478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

