

3095. Acta Neuropathol. 2002 Jan;103(1):48-58.

Amyloid-beta deposits in the cerebral cortex of the aged common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): incidence and chemical composition.

Geula C(1), Nagykery N, Wu CK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA. cgeula@caregroup.harvard.edu

The incidence, distribution and chemical composition of amyloid-beta (A beta)
peptide-positive deposits were investigated in the lower primate species common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). No A beta deposits were observed in the brains of 
7 marmosets below 7 years of age. In 15 marmosets above 7 years, 60% displayed
cortical A beta-immunoreactive plaques, 80% had A beta deposited in intracortical
vessels and 87% displayed A beta deposits in meningeal vessels. The cerebral
cortex of the oldest animal (15 years) contained a substantial density of
deposits. A beta-immunoreactive plaques were found predominantly in association
cortical zones followed by a lower density in paralimbic cortical areas. Deposits
within vessels were most frequent in occipital cortex. A beta40 was found
primarily in vascular deposits, while A beta42 was present in plaques.
Approximately 20% of plaques and most vascular deposits displayed thioflavin S
staining, indicative of the presence of fibrillar A beta. Varying proportions of 
A beta deposits contained acetylcholinesterase or butyrylcholinesterase
activities and apolipoprotein E and alpha1-antichymotrypsin immunoreactivity. A
few plaques contained immunoreactivity for amyloid precursor protein in swollen
neurites. However, no abnormally phosphorylated tau immunoreactivity was present 
in these neurites. Survival analysis in a colony of marmosets indicated that only
6% of animals can be expected to survive beyond 7 years of age. These results
indicate that the aged marmoset brain displays A beta deposits with a
distribution and chemical composition similar to those found in the human. These 
similarities suggest that the aged marmoset may be a useful lower primate model
for the study of the pathological effects of A beta. However, the relatively
small number of animals which can be expected to reach old age severely limits
the utility of this species as a model of A beta deposition.

DOI: 10.1007/s004010100429 
PMID: 11837747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3096. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2002 Feb;87(2):691-9.

Development of pituitary-adrenal endocrine function in the marmoset monkey:
infant hypercortisolism is the norm.

Pryce CR(1), Palme R, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland. pryce@toxi.biol.ethz.ch

Early life stress, involving activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
(HPA) system, is associated with altered functioning of stress-related systems in
adulthood. In the rat, postnatal development is characterized by low basal HPA
activity and stress hyporesponsiveness, and infant exposure to atypical
glucocorticoid levels leads to chronic alteration of HPA function and
HPA-dependent peripheral and central processes. There have been few studies of
primate HPA ontogeny, and here we report a study of changes in pituitary-adrenal 
function between birth and adulthood in the common marmoset monkey. In this
simian primate, basal plasma ACTH and cortisol levels were actually elevated in
neonates (ACTH, 141 +/- 28 pg/ml; cortisol, 1903 +/- 326 microg/dl) and wk 4
infants (ACTH, 114 +/- 9 pg/ml; cortisol, 290 +/- 8 microg/dl) relative to month 
2 infants, juveniles (month 6), subadults (month 12), and adults (>2 yr; ACTH, 37
+/- 4 to 61 +/- 8 pg/ml; cortisol, 101 +/- 2 to 195 +/- 4 microg/dl). In contrast
to older life stages, neonates lacked circadian change in their plasma cortisol
levels, and this state of consistently high cortisol was associated with large
adrenal glands in addition to high ACTH levels. Cerebrospinal fluid cortisol
levels were, in accord with plasma levels, higher in wk 4 infants than in
juveniles and subadults. In terms of stress response, month 2 infants
demonstrated ACTH and cortisol peak stress responses similar to those at older
life stages (infant stress cortisol, 185 +/- 36% of basal; subadult stress
cortisol, 174 +/- 6% of basal); whereas infant ACTH recovery was also similar to 
that in older subjects, their cortisol poststress recovery was retarded. This
primate, it is proposed, provides an excellent complementary model in which to
test hypotheses derived from the rat model relating to HPA system ontogeny and
the chronic effects and biomedical implications of hypercorticoidism during early
life.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.87.2.8244 
PMID: 11836307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

