

3098. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2002 Jan;125(1):67-78.

The nucleotide sequences of the parathyroid gene in primates (suborder
Anthropoidea).

Malaivijitnond S(1), Takenaka O, Anukulthanakorn K, Cherdshewasart W.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Research Unit, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok 10330, Thailand.
Suchinda.M@chula.ac.th

Nucleotide sequences of the parathyroid (PTH) gene of 12 species of primates
belonging to suborder Anthropoidea were examined. The PTH gene contains one
intron that separates two exons that code the sequence of prepro and PTH,
respectively. The intron of the PTH gene in Cebus apella, Callithrix jacchus, and
Saguinus oedipus was 102 bp long, whereas a 103-bp intron was observed in the
remaining species. Phylogenetic analysis using the nucleotide sequences of PTH
revealed that these 12 species of primates of suborder Anthropoidea could be
divided into two groups of the infraorder Platyrrhini (C. apella, C. jacchus, and
S. oedipus) and the infraorder Catarrhini (Macaca fascicularis, Macaca fuscata,
Cercopithecus aethiops, Papio hamadryas, Presbytes obscura, Hylobates lar, Pongo 
pygmaeus, Pan troglodytes, and Pan paniscus). The latter infraorder could be
further subdivided into two subgroups belonging to the superfamily
Cercopithecoidea (M. fascicularis, M. fuscata, C. aethiops, P. hamadryas, and P. 
obscura) and the superfamily Hominoidea (H. lar, P. pygmaeus, P. troglodytes, and
P. paniscus). The deduced amino acid sequences of PTH gene between 12 species of 
nonhuman primates and human revealed no amino acid substitution in mature PTH
among orangutans, chimpanzees, and humans. The results indicated that the PTH
gene is very conserved among primates, especially between great apes and humans. 
The apes are the most suitable animals to be used for studying the bone
metabolism and applying the knowledge to clinical use in humans.

DOI: 10.1006/gcen.2001.7735 
PMID: 11825036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3099. Brain Res. 2002 Feb 15;927(2):200-3.

Differential distribution of afferents containing serotonin and neuropeptide Y
within the marmoset suprachiasmatic nucleus.

Cavalcante JS(1), Alves AS, Costa MS, Britto LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Institute of Biomedical Sciences,
University of São Paulo, Av. Prof. Lineu Prestes 1524, 05508-900, São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil.

Neuropeptide Y-containing fibers/terminals were immunohistochemically detected in
the ventral portion of the marmoset suprachiasmatic nucleus, approximately
matching the distribution of its retinal afferents. On the other hand,
serotonergic fibers/terminals were found mostly in central and dorsal areas of
the suprachiasmatic nucleus, almost completely sparing its ventral portion. These
data may represent a morphological substrate for differential actions of
serotonin and neuropeptide Y in the control of circadian rhythmicity in
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(01)03312-1 
PMID: 11821013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

