

310. Primates. 2020 Sep;61(5):707-716. doi: 10.1007/s10329-020-00824-3. Epub 2020 May 
14.

Callitrichid responses to dead and dying infants: the effects of paternal bonding
and cause of death.

Thompson CL(1), Hrit R(2), Melo LCO(3), Vinyard CJ(4), Bottenberg KN(2), de
Oliveira MAB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Grand Valley State University, Allendale,
MI, USA. thompscy@gvsu.edu.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Grand Valley State University, Allendale,
MI, USA.
(3)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal, Universidade Federal Rural de 
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University,
Rootstown, OH, USA.

Many primates show responses to dead infants, yet testing explanations for these 
behaviors has been difficult. Callitrichids present a unique opportunity to
delineate between hypotheses, since unlike most species, male caretakers form
closer social bonds with infants than mothers. Callitrichids are also known to
commit infanticide, leaving obvious wounds that may enable them to more readily
recognize death. We present: (1) a case study of a wild common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) group responding to an infant's natural death, and (2) a
review of published infant deaths across callitrichids (N = 16), testing for
trends in the sex of reacting individuals and cause of death. In our case study, 
several group members frequently interacted with the dead infant, attempting to
carry it. However, the strongest response was from a male that remained with the 
corpse for ~ 3 h, despite his group leaving the area. Across callitrichid
species, corpse interactions were significantly sex-biased: 100% (N = 6) of
accidental deaths involved corpse interaction by males (p = 0.007), compared to
60% (N = 3 of 5) by females (p = 0.095). Cause of death also played a significant
role, with individuals attempting to carry dead infants in 100% (N = 6) of
accidental deaths, but only 11.1% (N = 1 of 9) of infanticides (p = 0.001).
Although the available literature is small and potentially subject to publication
biases, these data support the idea that visually obvious wounds may influence
callitrichids' perception of dead conspecifics. Additionally, male-biased
patterns of corpse interaction in callitrichids indicate that social bonds likely
shape reactions to the dead, in addition to kinship. While published data on
primate thanatology are limited, this study demonstrates quantitative approaches 
that can provide empirical insights into primates' responses to dead
conspecifics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-020-00824-3 
PMID: 32409994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. J Comp Neurol. 2021 Feb;529(2):281-295. doi: 10.1002/cne.24946. Epub 2020 Jun 1.

Multimodal cross-registration and quantification of metric distortions in
marmoset whole brain histology using diffeomorphic mappings.

Lee BC(1)(2), Lin MK(3), Fu Y(4), Hata J(5), Miller MI(1)(2), Mitra PP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Imaging Science, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland,
USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland, USA.
(3)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, USA.
(4)Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.
(5)RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Wako, Japan.

Whole brain neuroanatomy using tera-voxel light-microscopic data sets is of much 
current interest. A fundamental problem in this field is the mapping of
individual brain data sets to a reference space. Previous work has not rigorously
quantified in-vivo to ex-vivo distortions in brain geometry from tissue
processing. Further, existing approaches focus on registering unimodal volumetric
data; however, given the increasing interest in the marmoset model for
neuroscience research and the importance of addressing individual brain
architecture variations, new algorithms are necessary to cross-register
multimodal data sets including MRIs and multiple histological series. Here we
present a computational approach for same-subject multimodal MRI-guided
reconstruction of a series of consecutive histological sections, jointly with
diffeomorphic mapping to a reference atlas. We quantify the scale change during
different stages of brain histological processing using the Jacobian determinant 
of the diffeomorphic transformations involved. By mapping the final image stacks 
to the ex-vivo post-fixation MRI, we show that (a) tape-transfer assisted
histological sections can be reassembled accurately into 3D volumes with a local 
scale change of 2.0 ± 0.4% per axis dimension; in contrast, (b) tissue
perfusion/fixation as assessed by mapping the in-vivo MRIs to the ex-vivo post
fixation MRIs shows a larger median absolute scale change of 6.9 ± 2.1% per axis 
dimension. This is the first systematic quantification of local metric
distortions associated with whole-brain histological processing, and we expect
that the results will generalize to other species. These local scale changes will
be important for computing local properties to create reference brain maps.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24946 
PMCID: PMC7666050
PMID: 32406083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

