

3101. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2001 Apr 25;81(8):465-7.

[Horizontal transmission of live attenuated hepatitis A vaccine virus].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang X(1), Cao Y, Tan S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking
Union Medical College, Kunming 650118, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the horizontal transmission of virus after inoculation 
with live attenuated hepatitis A vaccine.
METHODS: One hundred and ninety nine children aged 4 approximately 7 years
without anti-HAV and with normal ALT level have been screened out at two trial
fields in Anning, Kunming and divided into vaccine group (82 children) and
contact group (117 children) to observe the horizontal transmission of the live
attenuated hepatitis A vaccine virus (H2 strain). Four supernatant specimens of
HAV positive fecal suspension derived from individual vaccines and contacts were 
taken and injected intravenousely into 8 common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) for
detecting the virulence level of HAV.
RESULTS: The rates of seroconversion were 97.6% (80/82) for vaccine group 6 weeks
after inoculation and 13.7% (16/117) for contact group at the ninth week of
observation. The detection rates of fecal HAV were 89.5% (34/38) and 70.7%
(53/75), respectively. No liver functional abnormality has been found in either
groups. The responses of 8 marmosets separately infected with fecal shedding HAV 
of 2 vaccines and 2 contacts have been examined with neither elevations of serum 
liver enzyme nor liver histopathological changes but delay seroconversions as
well as low titers of anti-HAV.
CONCLUSION: The safety and immunogenicity live attenuated hepatitis A vaccine (H2
strain) were good. The vaccine virus could actively propagate but keep the
stability of attenuated characteristics in human bodies, and might result in
horizontal transmission but not induce hepatitis A in crowd.


PMID: 11798919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3102. Am J Primatol. 2002 Feb;56(2):117-27.

Does the milk of Callitrichid monkeys differ from that of larger anthropoids?

Power ML(1), Oftedal OT, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Department of Conservation Biology, National Zoological 
Park, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC 20008, USA. powerm@nzp.si.edu

The generalization that anthropoid primates produce dilute milks that are low in 
protein and energy is based primarily on data from large monkeys of the families 
Cebidae and Cercopithecidae, as well as humans. The marmosets and tamarins
(Callitrichidae) are not only much smaller in body size, but also typically raise
multiple offspring during a relatively brief lactation. We hypothesized that
selection for small body size and high reproductive rate might favor secretion of
milk of higher energy and protein concentrations. To test this hypothesis, 46
milk samples collected from 10 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus, ca. 350 g)
were assayed for dry matter (DM), crude protein (CP), fat, and sugar; and gross
energy (GE) was calculated from these constituents. We also assayed five samples 
collected from three golden lion tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia, ca. 700 g) and
six samples collected from a single pygmy marmoset (Cebuella pygmaea, ca. 150 g) 
over two lactation periods. All samples were collected between days 10 and 57
post partum, representing mid lactation for these species. The milks of these
three species were similar, containing 14.0%, 16.1%, and 13.7% DM; 2.7%, 2.6%,
and 2.9% CP; 3.6%, 5.2%, and 3.7% fat; 7.4%, 7.2%, and 7.8% sugar; and 0.76,
0.90, and 0.82 kcal/g for common marmosets, golden lion tamarins, and the pygmy
marmoset, respectively. These species produced milks with energy values that were
within the range reported for large anthropoids, albeit with slightly higher
protein concentration. However, milk composition did vary substantially among
individual common marmoset females, especially in the proportion of milk energy
derived from fat. In contrast, CP as expressed as a percent of GE was remarkably 
constant among common marmoset females. Callitrichid milk appeared to be similar 
to that of larger anthropoid primates in GE, but was higher in CP and in the
proportion of GE from CP. However, the small sample sizes for the golden lion
tamarin and the pygmy marmoset, and the wide variation in milk composition found 
among common marmoset females cautions against definitively characterizing the
milks of callitrichids from these data.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1068 
PMID: 11793418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

