

3108. Xenobiotica. 2001 Dec;31(12):849-60.

Evaluation of the marmoset as a model species for drug glucuronidation.

Soars MG(1), Riley RJ, Burchell B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Pathology, Ninewells Hospital and Medical
School, Dundee, UK.

1. The in vitro glucuronidation of a wide range of compounds has been studied in 
microsomes prepared from marmoset liver and kidney. These studies have been
undertaken to evaluate the marmoset as a model species for drug glucuronidation
and for comparison with conjugation by other species. 2. The compounds studied
were glucuronidated by marmoset liver microsomes to varying extents (e.g.
naproxen CLint 0.4 microl min(-1) mg(-1), 1-naphthol CLint 43 microl min(-1)
mg(-1)) Both marmoset and rat liver microsomes glucuronidated morphine at the
3-position (marmoset CLint 19 microl min(-1) mg(-1), rat CLint 6.3 microl min(-1)
mg(-1)) but glucuronidation at the 6-position was below, the level of
radiodetection in both species. 3. Interestingly, marmoset liver microsomes were 
able to catalyse the glucuronidation of the tertiary amine imipramine to a
significant extent (0.05 nmol min(-1) mg(-1)). However, no glucuronidation was
detected by rat liver microsomes. 4. Conjugation of a range of substrates was
detectable by marmoset kidney microsomes in contrast to rat kidney microsomes,
which only catalysed the glucurondation of bilirubin and 1-naphthol (CLint 17
microl min(-1) mg(-1) and 18 microl min(-1) mg(-1), respectively). 5. This report
and previous work in dog and human tissue microsomes suggest that the marmoset
may be an alternative animal model for human drug glucuronidation, especially
when the pathway of drug glucuronidation is known to differ between lower
laboratory species and man.

DOI: 10.1080/00498250110069690 
PMID: 11780760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3109. J Neurosci. 2002 Jan 1;22(1):338-49.

Extraclassical receptive field properties of parvocellular, magnocellular, and
koniocellular cells in the primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Solomon SG(1), White AJ, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Descriptions of receptive fields at subcortical levels of the visual system have 
mostly considered only the classical receptive field (CRF). A suppressive
extraclassical receptive field (ECRF) has been demonstrated in relay cells within
the primate lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), but the quantitative properties and
specific influence of the ECRF on the distinct magnocellular (MC), koniocellular 
(KC), and parvocellular (PC) pathways are not known. Here we quantified the
effect of ECRF stimulation on visually responsive cells in the LGN of a diurnal
New World primate, the marmoset. We show that for all cells, visually evoked
responses are reduced by stimulation of the ECRF. The magnitude of the
suppression is greatest for MC cells and smallest for PC cells. The effect of
ECRF stimulation on KC cells is variable but always suppressive. We refer to
these effects as extraclassical inhibition (ECI). The contrast-response
relationship of the ECI parallels that of CRF-induced excitation for each cell
class: for MC cells, ECI contrast threshold is close to 10% and the ECI saturates
at 50% contrast, but the contrast dependence of ECI on PC cells is more linear.
The ECI also contributes to contrast-dependent changes in spatial summation: on
average for all LGN cells the radius of the excitatory spatial summation field
(measured from aperture-tuning curves) at low contrast is 1.31 times that at high
contrast. No consistent effects of orientation on ECI were seen. The data suggest
that the suppressive component of the ECRF seen in cortical neurons could
primarily be inherited from subcortical input streams.


PMCID: PMC6757604
PMID: 11756517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

