

3110. Neuropharmacology. 2002 Jan;42(1):74-81.

[3H]-SB-269970 radiolabels 5-HT7 receptors in rodent, pig and primate brain
tissues.

Thomas DR(1), Atkinson PJ, Hastie PG, Roberts JC, Middlemiss DN, Price GW.

Author information: 
(1)GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Psychiatry Centre of Excellence for Drug
Discovery, New Frontiers Science Park (North), Third Avenue, CM19 5AW, Harlow,
Essex, UK. david_r_thomas@sbphrd.com

The selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist radioligand, [3H]-SB-269970, has been
reported to radiolabel the human cloned 5-HT7(a) receptor and 5-HT7 receptors in 
guinea pig cortex (thomas et al, 2000). Saturation analysis of [3H]-SB-269970
binding to mouse forebrain, rat cortex, pig cortex, marmoset cortex and human
thalamus membranes was consistent with labelling a homogenous population of
binding sites in each tissue. K(D) values for [3H]-SB-269970 binding in these
tissues ranged from 0.9 to 2.3 nM, being similar to those reported for the human 
cloned and guinea pig cortex 5-HT7 receptors (1.3 and 1.7 nM, respectively). Bmax
values for [3H]-SB-269970 binding to the mouse, rat, pig, marmoset and human
brain membranes were 20, 30, 31, 14 and 68 fmoles x mg x protein(-1),
respectively. For each species the profile of inhibition of [3H]-SB-269970
binding, using a number of 5-HT7 receptor agonists and antagonists, correlated
well with that reported for the human cloned 5-HT7(a) receptor (correlation
coefficients were 0.95, 0.94, 0.92, 0.95, 0.97 versus the mouse, rat, pig,
marmoset and human tissues, respectively). In conclusion, [3H]-SB-269970 has been
shown to radiolabel 5-HT7 receptors in rodent, pig and primate brain and
represents a valuable tool with which to further characterise the distribution
and function of 5-HT7 receptors in native tissues and elucidate their potential
role in disease states.

DOI: 10.1016/s0028-3908(01)00151-4 
PMID: 11750917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3111. J Med Virol. 2002 Jan;66(1):115-22.

Pathogenicity of mumps virus in the marmoset.

Saika S(1), Kidokoro M, Ohkawa T, Aoki A, Suzuki K.

Author information: 
(1)Chiba Serum Institute, Chiba, Japan. kaihatu@triton.ocn.ne.jp

The neurovirulence of two mumps virus strains was compared using marmosets.
Marmosets were inoculated intravenously with the wild-type mumps virus Odate
strain, resulting in evident meningitis in 1 of 3 marmosets at each of the weeks 
3, 4, and 5 postinoculation, representing a total of 3 out of 9 marmosets.
Nephritis, parotitis, pancreatitis, and tonsillitis were manifest in addition to 
central nervous system (CNS) sequelae. On the other hand, the Jeryl Lynn vaccine 
strain did not induce histopathological changes in the CNS and multiplication of 
the Jeryl Lynn strain was distinctly lower compared to that of the Odate strain
in the marmoset. This is the first report to describe the induction of meningitis
in non-human primates after peripheral inoculation of a wild-type mumps virus,
presenting findings useful for the elucidation of the mechanism of infection and 
pathology of mumps virus in the CNS. The distinction observed between the Odate
and Jeryl Lynn strains suggests the applicability of the marmoset model for the
evaluation of any neurovirulence potential of vaccine strains.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.2119 
PMID: 11748667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

