

3112. Emerg Infect Dis. 2001 Nov-Dec;7(6):1062-5.

Rabies in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), Ceará, Brazil.

Favoretto SR(1), de Mattos CC, Morais NB, Alves Araújo FA, de Mattos CA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Pasteur São Paulo, Brazil.

A new Rabies virus variant, with no close antigenic or genetic relationship to
any known rabies variants found in bats or terrestrial mammals in the Americas,
was identified in association with human rabies cases reported from the state of 
Ceará, Brazil, from 1991 to 1998. The marmoset, Callithrix jacchus acchus, was
determined to be the source of exposure.

DOI: 10.3201/eid0706.010630 
PMCID: PMC2631923
PMID: 11747745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3113. Cytometry. 2001 Dec 1;45(4):294-303.

An extensive monoclonal antibody panel for the phenotyping of leukocyte subsets
in the common marmoset and the cotton-top tamarin.

Brok HP(1), Hornby RJ, Griffiths GD, Scott LA, Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. brok@bprc.nl

New World monkeys are valuable animal models to study human diseases. To
determine the phenotype of cells involved in immune responses, we used flow
cytometry to screen a large panel of anti-human monoclonal antibodies (mAb) for
cross-reactivity with cells of the common marmoset and the cotton-top tamarin.
Certain antigens (e.g., CD2, CD8, CD20) are well conserved. However, CD10, CD23, 
and CD33 showed a clear discrepancy in their reaction patterns in both species,
indicating that significant differences on the epitope level occurred during
evolution. Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B-cell lines were shown to be a
valuable tool for screening B-cell-specific reagents. In some cases, fluorescein 
isothiocyanate (FITC) and phycoerythrin (PE) modification of mAbs had a negative 
effect on the binding capacity, which stressed the importance of choosing the
right label. Despite the fact that some CD antigens were not detected, adequate
numbers of cross-reactive mAbs were identified to perform extensive studies on
immunological functions in both the common marmoset and the cotton-top tamarin.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0320(20011201)45:4<294::aid-cyto10002>3.0.co;2-c 
PMID: 11746099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

