

3114. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2002 Jan;92(1):202-10.

Ventilatory and metabolic responses to hypoxia in the smallest simian primate,
the pygmy marmoset.

Tattersall GJ(1), Blank JL, Wood SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio 44242,
USA. gtatters@zoology.ubc.ca

The pygmy marmoset (Cebuella pygmaea) is the smallest New World Monkey (average
body mass of 120-130 g). As such, it faces possible challenges to
thermoregulation. Small mammals (e.g., rats) are well known to lower body
temperature and metabolism in response to hypoxia; however, small primates have
not been studied in this respect nor have, in general, the interactions between
metabolism and ventilation. Because little is known about these responses in
small primates, it seemed of great interest to assess the hypoxia-induced
metabolic depression and drop in body temperature and the associated ventilatory 
requirements in this species under hypoxic conditions. Exposure to graded hypoxia
(30 min at each of 18, 16, 14, 12, and 10% O(2)) caused body temperature to drop 
from the normoxic value of 39 to 37 degrees C. This was accompanied by a marked
metabolic depression (O(2) consumption was approximately 68% of the normoxic
value, implying a suppression of metabolism greater than that predicted from a
typical value of the effect of 10 degrees C change on metabolism of 2-3 times).
Minute ventilation declined in parallel to metabolism, maintaining a constant
air-convection requirement during hypoxia; thus this species did not show the
typical mammalian hyperventilation. Acute exposure to 10% O(2) led to a similar
overall decline in metabolism and body temperature and qualitative differences in
the timing of these changes. The pygmy marmoset shares some similarities in its
hypoxic metabolic response with other mammals of similar size yet appears to be
unique in its much diminished ventilatory response to hypoxia.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00500.2001 
PMID: 11744661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3115. Bioorg Med Chem. 2002 Feb;10(2):401-14.

Novel 4,1-benzoxazepine derivatives with potent squalene synthase inhibitory
activities.

Miki T(1), Kori M, Mabuchi H, Banno H, Tozawa Ri, Nakamura M, Itokawa S, Sugiyama
Y, Yukimasa H.

Author information: 
(1)Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd. Pharmaceutical Research Division, 2-17-85,
Juso-Honmachi, Yodogawa-ku, 532-8686, Osaka, Japan. Miki_Takashi@takeda.co.jp

A series of (3,5-trans)-2-oxo-5-phenyl-1,2,3,5-tetrahydro-4,1-benzoxazepine
derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for squalene synthase inhibitory and
cholesterol biosynthesis inhibitory activities. Through modification of
substituents of the lead compounds 1a and 1b, it was found that
4,1-benzoxazepine-3-acetic acid derivatives with isobutyl and neopentyl groups at
the 1-position, the chloro atom at the 7-position, and the chloro and methoxy
groups at the 2'-position on the 5-phenyl ring, had potent squalene synthase
inhibitory activity. Among such compounds, the 5-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl) derivative
2t exhibited potent inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis in HepG2 cells. As a
result of optical resolution study of 2t, the absolute stereochemistry required
for inhibitory activity was determined to be 3R,5S. In vivo study showed that the
sodium salt of
(3R,5S)-7-chloro-5-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-neopentyl-2-oxo-1,2,3,5-tetrahydro-4,1
-benzoxazepine-3-acetic acid 20 effectively reduced plasma cholesterol in
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0968-0896(01)00290-5 
PMID: 11741788  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

