

3120. Mol Hum Reprod. 2001 Dec;7(12):1159-65.

Expression and localization of thioredoxin during early implantation in the
marmoset monkey.

Lopata A(1), Sibson MC, Enders AC, Bloomfield KL, Gregory MS, Trapani GD, Perkins
AV, Tonissen KF, Clarke FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

Thioredoxin is a powerful redox protein expressed in invasive cytotrophoblasts
and essential for blastocyst implantation in mice. Isolated marmoset thioredoxin 
cDNA showed that the deduced amino acid sequence differed from the human sequence
by four amino acids. The close homology of thioredoxin in the two species enabled
us to use monoclonal antibodies against human thioredoxin to detect marmoset
thioredoxin in implantation sites, blastocysts and culture medium.
Immunocytochemistry on marmoset implantation sites, on pregnancy days 12 and 15, 
showed that thioredoxin is highly expressed in uterine luminal epithelium, glands
and in some endometrial stromal cells. In attached blastocysts, thioredoxin
staining was detected in mural and polar trophoblast cells and both visceral and 
parietal endoderm, whereas no staining was present in the inner cell mass. A
similar pattern of thioredoxin expression was detected in hatched blastocysts
attached to Matrigel in tissue culture. Trophoblastic vesicles derived from
blastocysts expressed thioredoxin in inner endoderm-like cells and outer
trophoblast-like cells and secreted thioredoxin into the culture medium. These
experiments have demonstrated thioredoxin expression during early stages of
embryo-maternal interaction. We propose that thioredoxin protects the early
placenta from oxidative damage and that the marmoset is a valuable model for
studying thioredoxin regulation and function during implantation and blastocyst
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/7.12.1159 
PMID: 11719593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3121. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2001 Dec 1;396(1):56-64.

Nafenopin-, ciprofibroyl-, and palmitoyl-CoA conjugation in vitro: kinetic and
molecular characterization of marmoset liver microsomes and expressed MLCL1.

Drogemuller CJ(1), Nunthasomboon S, Knights KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Adelaide, 5042,
Australia.

Acyl-CoA conjugation of xenobiotic carboxylic acids is catalyzed by hepatic
microsomal long-chain fatty acid CoA ligases (LCL, EC 6.2.1.3). Marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) are considered genetically closer to humans than rodents and
are used in pharmacological and toxicological studies. We have demonstrated that 
marmoset liver microsomes catalyze nafenopin-, ciprofibroyl-, and palmitoyl-CoA
conjugation and that only palmitoyl-CoA conjugation is significantly upregulated 
(1.7-fold, P < 0.02) by a high fat diet. Additionally, the apparent C(50) values 
for nafenopin-, ciprofibroyl-, and palmitoyl-CoA conjugation of 149.7, 413.4, and
3.4 microM were comparable to those reported for human liver microsomes viz,
213.7, 379.8, and 3.4 microM, respectively. Comparison with human data was
enabled by the cloning of a full-length marmoset cDNA (MLCL1) that encoded a
698-amino-acid protein sharing 83% similarity with rat liver acyl-CoA synthetase 
(ACS1) and 93 and 90% similarity with human liver LCL1 and LCL2, respectively.
MLCL1 transiently expressed in COS-7 cells activated nafenopin (C(50) 192.9
microM), ciprofibrate (C(50) 168.7 microM), and palmitic acid (C(50) 4.5 microM) 
to their respective CoA conjugates. This study also demonstrated that the
sigmoidal kinetics observed for nafenopin- and ciprofibroyl-CoA conjugation were 
not unique to human liver microsomes but were also characteristic of marmoset
liver microsomes and recombinant MLCL1. More extensive characterization of the
substrate specificity of marmoset LCL isoforms will aid in determining further
the suitability of marmosets as a model for human xenobiotic metabolism via
acyl-CoA conjugation.

(c)2001 Elsevier Science.

DOI: 10.1006/abbi.2001.2591 
PMID: 11716462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

