

3123. Int Immunopharmacol. 2001 Nov;1(12):2043-62.

Factors modifying the migration of lymphocytes across the blood-brain barrier.

Brown KA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Characterising the factors that control the entry of leucocytes into tissue in
response to inflammatory or microbial insult continues to generate considerable
interest. Of all the tissues studied it is probably that of the CNS which is the 
most fascinating because of the specialised properties of its blood vessel walls,
which constitute the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In health, very few leucocytes
penetrate the BBB but in disorders such as MS the barrier becomes compromised
with the result that there is an intense infiltration of the CNS by T lymphocytes
whose subsequent activity appears to underlie the onset and progression of
disease. The purpose of this article is to summarise and assess recent literature
pertaining to how lymphocytes bind to cerebral endothelial cells, migrate across 
the blood vessel walls and enter the CNS parenchyma. Particular emphasis is
devoted to the cellular and molecular aspects of these events and addressing the 
questions of whether certain subsets of circulating T lymphocytes are more
favourably disposed than others to CNS infiltration and whether entry is
dependent upon the initial expression of distinct groups of adhesion molecules
and upon the generation of chemotactic factors. This article also focuses upon
identifying the key stages of lymphocyte migration across the BBB and their
susceptibility to antagonism by therapeutic agents. It is intended that the
review will provide a useful source of information and offer additional insights 
into the mechanisms controlling lymphocyte passage across the BBB during
pathological disturbance.

DOI: 10.1016/s1567-5769(01)00129-1 
PMID: 11710535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3124. Braz J Biol. 2001 Aug;61(3):397-404.

Ecological aspects of black-pincelled marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) in the
cerradão and dense cerrado of the Brazilian central plateau.

de Miranda GH(1), de Faria DS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ecologia, Universidade de Brasília, C.P. 04631, CEP 70919-970.
guihbm@unb.br

Ecological data about three free-ranging groups of C. penicillata
(black-pincelled marmoset) were observed between March and December 1996, in one 
cerradão patch (in the Ecological Reserve of Brazilian Institute of Geography and
Statistics, RECOR) and two patches of dense cerrado (one in the RECOR and another
in the Botanical Garden of Brasília, JBB), situated in the APA (area of
environmental protection) of the Gama/Cabeça-de-Veado, Distrito Federal. Each
area was visited weekly during three periods of two months--end of the rainy
season (01/04 to 31/05), dry season (16/06 to 15/08) and beginning of the rainy
season (14/10 to 15/12)--and instantaneous scan records at fifteen minute
intervals were made for the vertical and horizontal position of each visible
individual of the target group. The group size ranged between 4 and 11 elements. 
In September, the birth of twins in both groups of the RECOR was observed.
Home-range varied from 8.25 to 18.5 hectares, while density ranged from 0.4 to
0.82 ind/ha. Twenty two species of nine tree families were identified as exudate 
sources. Qualea grandiflora (Vochysiaceae), Vochysia thyrsoidea (Vochysiaceae),
Scheflera macrocarpum (Araliaceae) and Qualea parviflora (Vochysiaceae) were more
explored. Fruits (14 species, two of which were exotics), nectar, honey,
arthropods (mainly orthopterans) and bird eggs complete their diet. The main
sleep-tree species was Emmotum nitens (Icacinaceae). Data from different seasons 
and studied groups/areas were compared along previous data from this primate
species in gallery forests. In the cerradão and dense cerrado areas C.
penicillata had a similar group size, however a larger home-range and smaller
density than in gallery forests were observed in this study.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842001000300008 
PMID: 11706566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

