

3124. Braz J Biol. 2001 Aug;61(3):397-404.

Ecological aspects of black-pincelled marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) in the
cerradão and dense cerrado of the Brazilian central plateau.

de Miranda GH(1), de Faria DS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ecologia, Universidade de Brasília, C.P. 04631, CEP 70919-970.
guihbm@unb.br

Ecological data about three free-ranging groups of C. penicillata
(black-pincelled marmoset) were observed between March and December 1996, in one 
cerradão patch (in the Ecological Reserve of Brazilian Institute of Geography and
Statistics, RECOR) and two patches of dense cerrado (one in the RECOR and another
in the Botanical Garden of Brasília, JBB), situated in the APA (area of
environmental protection) of the Gama/Cabeça-de-Veado, Distrito Federal. Each
area was visited weekly during three periods of two months--end of the rainy
season (01/04 to 31/05), dry season (16/06 to 15/08) and beginning of the rainy
season (14/10 to 15/12)--and instantaneous scan records at fifteen minute
intervals were made for the vertical and horizontal position of each visible
individual of the target group. The group size ranged between 4 and 11 elements. 
In September, the birth of twins in both groups of the RECOR was observed.
Home-range varied from 8.25 to 18.5 hectares, while density ranged from 0.4 to
0.82 ind/ha. Twenty two species of nine tree families were identified as exudate 
sources. Qualea grandiflora (Vochysiaceae), Vochysia thyrsoidea (Vochysiaceae),
Scheflera macrocarpum (Araliaceae) and Qualea parviflora (Vochysiaceae) were more
explored. Fruits (14 species, two of which were exotics), nectar, honey,
arthropods (mainly orthopterans) and bird eggs complete their diet. The main
sleep-tree species was Emmotum nitens (Icacinaceae). Data from different seasons 
and studied groups/areas were compared along previous data from this primate
species in gallery forests. In the cerradão and dense cerrado areas C.
penicillata had a similar group size, however a larger home-range and smaller
density than in gallery forests were observed in this study.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842001000300008 
PMID: 11706566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3125. J Neurophysiol. 2001 Nov;86(5):2616-20.

Differential representation of species-specific primate vocalizations in the
auditory cortices of marmoset and cat.

Wang X(1), Kadia SC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
xwang@bme.jhu.edu

A number of studies in various species have demonstrated that natural
vocalizations generally produce stronger neural responses than do their
time-reversed versions. The majority of neurons in the primary auditory cortex
(A1) of marmoset monkeys responds more strongly to natural marmoset vocalizations
than to the time-reversed vocalizations. However, it was unclear whether such
differences in neural responses were simply due to the difference between the
acoustic structures of natural and time-reversed vocalizations or whether they
also resulted from the difference in behavioral relevance of both types of the
stimuli. To address this issue, we have compared neural responses to natural and 
time-reversed marmoset twitter calls in A1 of cats with those obtained from A1 of
marmosets using identical stimuli. It was found that the preference for natural
marmoset twitter calls demonstrated in marmoset A1 was absent in cat A1. While
both cortices responded approximately equally to time-reversed twitter calls,
marmoset A1 responded much more strongly to natural twitter calls than did cat
A1. This differential representation of marmoset vocalizations in two cortices
suggests that experience-dependent and possibly species-specific mechanisms are
involved in cortical processing of communication sounds.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.86.5.2616 
PMID: 11698547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

