

3126. Toxicol Pathol. 2001 Sep-Oct;29(5):565-73.

Methylmercury poisoning in common marmosets--a study of selective vulnerability
within the cerebral cortex.

Eto K(1), Yasutake A, Kuwana T, Korogi Y, Akima M, Shimozeki T, Tokunaga H,
Kaneko Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Minamata Disease, Ministry of the Environment, Minamatu
City, Kumamoto, Japan. kometo@nimd.go.jp

Neuropathological lesions found in chronic human Minamata disease tend to be
localized in the calcarine cortex of occipital lobes, the pre- and postcentral
lobuli, and the temporal gyri. The mechanism for the selective vulnerability is
still not clear, though several hypotheses have been proposed. One hypothesis is 
vascular and postulates that the lesions are the result of ischemia secondary to 
compression of sulcal arteries from methylmercury-induced cerebral edema. To test
this hypothesis, we studied common marmosets because the cerebrum of marmosets
has 2 distinct deep sulci, the calcarine and Sylvian fissures. MRI analysis,
mercury assays of tissue specimens, histologic and histochemical studies of the
brain are reported and discussed. Brains sacrificed early after exposure to
methylmercury showed high contents of methylmercury and edema of the cerebral
white matter. These results may explain the selective cortical degeneration along
the deep cerebral fissures or sulci.

DOI: 10.1080/019262301317226375 
PMID: 11695574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3127. J Nutr. 2001 Nov;131(11):2904-9.

Subtoxic hepatic vitamin A concentrations in captive rhesus monkeys (Macaca
mulatta).

Penniston KL(1), Tanumihardjo SA.

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

Although the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) is a widely used experimental animal,
its exact vitamin A requirement is unknown. An amount of 430-3600 IU/d [129-1080 
retinol equivalents (RE)] is recommended, largely on the basis of depletion
studies. Normal hepatic vitamin A appears to be 1 micromol/g liver. Our goal was 
to determine hepatic vitamin A concentrations of captive monkeys. Liver autopsy
samples from rhesus and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys were obtained from 
the Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center. The rhesus monkeys consumed a
diet with 40 IU (12 RE) retinyl acetate/g. Male and female monkeys consumed an
estimated 250 and 175 g diet/d, respectively. Marmosets were fed a powder-based
diet consisting of 20 IU (6 RE) retinyl acetate/g. The marmosets consumed an
estimated 25 g of the diet/d. Liver samples were extracted and analyzed by HPLC. 
The vitamin A concentration of the rhesus monkey livers was very high at 17.0 +/-
6.3 micromol/g. The hepatic vitamin A of the marmosets was 1.25 +/- 0.58
micromol/g liver. Histologic examination of the livers revealed Ito cell
hypertrophy and hyperplasia in the rhesus monkeys compared with the marmosets.
Considering that the natural diet of the rhesus monkey (fruits, seeds, roots and 
insects) is not high in preformed vitamin A, the vitamin A content of the diet
appears excessive, supplying four times the NRC recommendation and resulting in
high liver stores.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/131.11.2904 
PMID: 11694616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

