

3132. Nat Neurosci. 2001 Nov;4(11):1131-8.

Temporal and rate representations of time-varying signals in the auditory cortex 
of awake primates.

Lu T(1), Liang L, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 720 Rutland Avenue, Ross 424,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Neurosci. 2001 Nov;4(11):1055-6.

Because auditory cortical neurons have limited stimulus-synchronized responses,
cortical representations of more rapidly occurring but still perceivable stimuli 
remain unclear. Here we show that there are two largely distinct populations of
neurons in the auditory cortex of awake primates: one with stimulus-synchronized 
discharges that, with a temporal code, explicitly represented slowly occurring
sound sequences and the other with non-stimulus-synchronized discharges that,
with a rate code, implicitly represented rapidly occurring events. Furthermore,
neurons of both populations displayed selectivity in their discharge rates to
temporal features within a short time-window. Our results suggest that the
combination of temporal and rate codes in the auditory cortex provides a possible
neural basis for the wide perceptual range of temporal information.

DOI: 10.1038/nn737 
PMID: 11593234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3133. Eur J Immunol. 2001 Oct;31(10):2942-50.

Frequency, heterogeneity and encephalitogenicity of T cells specific for myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in naive outbred primates.

Villoslada P(1), Abel K, Heald N, Goertsches R, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, USA.
pvilloslada@unav.es

Auto-reactive T cells present in healthy subjects remain in a state of
unresponsiveness, but may trigger autoimmunity under various situations. Although
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a potential target antigen in
multiple sclerosis (MS), MOG-reactive T cell responses are present in the blood
of both healthy subjects and MS-affected individuals. To investigate the
disease-inducing potential and regulation of these autoreactive T cells in
healthy outbred populations, we have characterized MOG-reactive T cell clones
obtained by limiting dilution from peripheral blood of unimmunized C. jacchus
marmosets. We report an extraordinarily high prevalence of circulating
MOG-reactive T cells in these naive animals (2.6 +/- 1.4 / 10(5) PBMC), and a
broadly diverse repertoire of epitope recognition encompassing at least three
regions within the extracellular domain of MOG. Adoptive transfer of a
MOG21-40-specific T cell clone resulted in mild clinical experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis, characterized pathologically by rare foci of inflammation and 
minimal demyelination. We conclude that MOG-reactive T cells are present in
healthy primates at a highly prevalent frequency, and are potentially capable of 
triggering central nervous system autoimmunity. Expansion of these autoreactive T
cells must be tightly controlled to maintain immune homeostasis in healthy
individuals.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(2001010)31:10<2942::aid-immu2942>3.0.co;2-m 
PMID: 11592070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

