

3135. Mol Hum Reprod. 2001 Oct;7(10):963-70.

Characterization of relaxin binding in the uterus of the marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Müller D, Lubberstedt J, Bartsch O, Jurdzinski A, Fuhrmann K,
Ivell R.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
aeinspa@gwdg.de

The ovarian peptide hormone relaxin (RLX) plays an important role in the
regulation of the endometrium both during the cycle and in early pregnancy. RLX
interacts with specific receptors on endometrial stromal cells causing these to
decidualize. In order to characterize the molecules with which RLX interacts in
the primate uterus, a methodology based on a fully bioactive preparation of
biotinylated porcine RLX was applied to cryosections of the uterus of female
marmoset monkeys. Specific RLX binding was weakly detected in the proliferative
phase in isolated endometrial stromal cells. In the secretory phase, the
positively reacting cells increased in staining intensity and in number and also 
included some epithelial cells. Further increases occurred in pregnancy, but RLX 
binding in the endometrium decreased at the end of the cycle if pregnancy did not
occur. The myometrium showed weak staining which did not vary through the cycle, 
but increased in pregnancy. Electrophoretic analysis of the RLX-binding moieties 
in these tissue sections indicated that a protein of approximately 40 kDa was the
principal RLX-binding molecule, while minor specific bands were detectable at
approximately 100 and approximately 200 kDa. The binding of biotinylated RLX
could be specifically suppressed by co-incubation with unlabelled RLX, but not by
insulin, IGF-I or biotin. This technique therefore allows the detection and
molecular characterization of specific RLX binding in the primate uterus. In the 
marmoset monkey, the pattern of specific binding closely reflects the
RLX-dependent physiology during implantation and early pregnancy, implying the
probable involvement of a specific RLX receptor.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/7.10.963 
PMID: 11574665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3136. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2001 Sep 25;98(20):11731-6.

Molecular genetics and the evolution of ultraviolet vision in vertebrates.

Shi Y(1), Radlwimmer FB, Yokoyama S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Syracuse University, 130 College Place, Syracuse, NY
13244, USA.

Despite the biological importance of UV vision, its molecular bases are not well 
understood. Here, we present evidence that UV vision in vertebrates is determined
by eight specific amino acids in the UV pigments. Amino acid sequence analyses
show that contemporary UV pigments inherited their UV sensitivities from the
vertebrate ancestor by retaining most of these eight amino acids. In the avian
lineage, the ancestral pigment lost UV sensitivity, but some descendants regained
it by one amino acid change. Our results also strongly support the hypothesis
that UV pigments have an unprotonated Schiff base-linked chromophore.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.201257398 
PMCID: PMC58798
PMID: 11573008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

