

3137. J Neurosci. 2001 Oct 1;21(19):7770-80.

The role of the primate amygdala in conditioned reinforcement.

Parkinson JA(1), Crofts HS, McGuigan M, Tomic DL, Everitt BJ, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United
Kingdom. jap22@cam.ac.uk

Conditioned reinforcement refers to the capacity of a conditioned stimulus to
support instrumental behavior by acquiring affective properties of the primary
reinforcer with which it is associated. Conditioned reinforcers maintain behavior
over protracted periods of time in the absence of, and potentially in conflict
with, primary reinforcers and as such may play a fundamental role in complex
social behavior. A relatively large body of evidence supports the view that the
amygdala (and in particular the basolateral area) contributes to conditioned
reinforcement by maintaining a representation of the affective value of
conditioned stimuli. However, a recent study in primates (Malkova et al., 1997), 
using a second-order visual discrimination task, suggests that the amygdala is
not critical for the conditioned reinforcement process. In the present study,
excitotoxic lesions of the amygdala in a new world primate, the common marmoset, 
resulted in a progressive impairment in responding under a second-order schedule 
of food reinforcement. In addition, the responding of amygdala-lesioned animals
was insensitive to the omission of the conditioned reinforcer, unlike that of
control animals, for which responding was markedly reduced. In contrast, lesioned
animals were unimpaired when responding on a progression of fixed-ratio schedules
of primary reinforcement. These data confirm that the amygdala is critical for
the conditioned reinforcement process in primates, and taken together with other 
recent work in monkeys, these results suggest that the contribution of the
amygdala is to provide the affective value of specific reinforcers as accessed by
associated conditioned stimuli.


PMCID: PMC6762910
PMID: 11567067  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3138. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Oct 1;438(4):490-504.

Short and mid-wavelength cone distribution in a nocturnal Strepsirrhine primate
(Microcebus murinus).

Dkhissi-Benyahya O(1), Szel A, Degrip WJ, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)I.N.S.E.R.M. Unit√© 371, Cerveau et Vision, 69675 Bron, France.

Strepsirrhines are of considerable interest for understanding the evolution of
cone photoreceptors because they represent the most ancestral living primates.
The retina of nocturnal Strepsirrhines is reported to contain a single population
of medium/long wavelength (MW/LW) cones whereas short wavelength (SW) cones are
totally absent. The area centralis of nocturnal Strepsirrhines also lacks the
degree of central specialization seen in the fovea of diurnal primates. In this
study of a nocturnal Strepsirrhine, the gray mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus), we
used specific antibodies that recognize SW and MW/LW opsins to determine the
presence of different cone subtypes and their distribution in relation to that of
rods and ganglion cells. The results are compared to two diurnal Haplorhine
species, a New World (Callithrix jacchus) and an Old World (Macaca fascicularis) 
monkey. In the mouse lemur, both antibodies to MW/LW cone opsin (COS-1 and
CERN956) label the same population of cones. A small proportion of SW cones is
only stained by the JH455 antiserum whereas the monoclonal OS-2 antibody shows
negative staining. These two antibodies label the same SW cone population in
other primates. The extracellular matrix of all cones is also labeled by the
peanut agglutinin (PNA) lectin. In mouse lemur retinal wholemounts, peak cone
density is localized at the area centralis and ranged from 7,500 to 8,000
cones/mm(2). SW cones represent less than 0.2 % of the total cone population and 
are mainly located in the nasal part of the retina. SW cones show an irregular
distribution and densities never exceed 49 cones/mm(2). The distribution of
neurons in the ganglion cell layer shows a distinct centroperipheral gradient
with a peak of 28,000 cells/mm(2) at the area centralis. Rod distribution shows a
centroperipheral gradient with the peak (850,000 rods/mm(2)) including and
extending slightly dorsal to the area centralis. The theoretical spatial
resolution of the mouse lemur (4.9 cycles/degree) is slightly lower to that of
other nocturnal primates. The densities of rods, cones, and ganglion cell layer
neurons represent a compromise between spatial resolution and sensitivity for
both photopic and scotopic vision.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1330 
PMID: 11559903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

