

3138. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Oct 1;438(4):490-504.

Short and mid-wavelength cone distribution in a nocturnal Strepsirrhine primate
(Microcebus murinus).

Dkhissi-Benyahya O(1), Szel A, Degrip WJ, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)I.N.S.E.R.M. Unit√© 371, Cerveau et Vision, 69675 Bron, France.

Strepsirrhines are of considerable interest for understanding the evolution of
cone photoreceptors because they represent the most ancestral living primates.
The retina of nocturnal Strepsirrhines is reported to contain a single population
of medium/long wavelength (MW/LW) cones whereas short wavelength (SW) cones are
totally absent. The area centralis of nocturnal Strepsirrhines also lacks the
degree of central specialization seen in the fovea of diurnal primates. In this
study of a nocturnal Strepsirrhine, the gray mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus), we
used specific antibodies that recognize SW and MW/LW opsins to determine the
presence of different cone subtypes and their distribution in relation to that of
rods and ganglion cells. The results are compared to two diurnal Haplorhine
species, a New World (Callithrix jacchus) and an Old World (Macaca fascicularis) 
monkey. In the mouse lemur, both antibodies to MW/LW cone opsin (COS-1 and
CERN956) label the same population of cones. A small proportion of SW cones is
only stained by the JH455 antiserum whereas the monoclonal OS-2 antibody shows
negative staining. These two antibodies label the same SW cone population in
other primates. The extracellular matrix of all cones is also labeled by the
peanut agglutinin (PNA) lectin. In mouse lemur retinal wholemounts, peak cone
density is localized at the area centralis and ranged from 7,500 to 8,000
cones/mm(2). SW cones represent less than 0.2 % of the total cone population and 
are mainly located in the nasal part of the retina. SW cones show an irregular
distribution and densities never exceed 49 cones/mm(2). The distribution of
neurons in the ganglion cell layer shows a distinct centroperipheral gradient
with a peak of 28,000 cells/mm(2) at the area centralis. Rod distribution shows a
centroperipheral gradient with the peak (850,000 rods/mm(2)) including and
extending slightly dorsal to the area centralis. The theoretical spatial
resolution of the mouse lemur (4.9 cycles/degree) is slightly lower to that of
other nocturnal primates. The densities of rods, cones, and ganglion cell layer
neurons represent a compromise between spatial resolution and sensitivity for
both photopic and scotopic vision.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1330 
PMID: 11559903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3139. Cereb Cortex. 2001 Sep;11(9):849-67.

Area 3a: topographic organization and cortical connections in marmoset monkeys.

Huffman KJ(1), Krubitzer L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Department of Psychology, University of
California, Davis 95616, USA.

The functional organization of area 3a, a cortical field proposed to be involved 
in somato-motor-vestibular integration, has never been described for any primate.
In the present investigation, the topographic organization and connections of
area 3a were examined in marmosets using electrophysiological recording and
anatomical tracing techniques. Multi-unit neuronal activity was recorded at a
number of closely spaced sites; receptive fields (RFs) for neurons were
determined, and the optimal stimulus was identified. In all cases, neurons in
area 3a responded to the stimulation of deep receptors on the contralateral body.
The representation of the body in area 3a was from the toes and foot, to the
hindlimb, trunk, forelimb, hand and face in a mediolateral progression. In all
cases electrophysiological results were related to myeloarchitecture, and the map
in area 3a was found to be coextensive with a strip of lightly to moderately
myelinated cortex just rostral to the darkly myelinated 3b. To examine the
cortical connections of area 3a, injections of anatomical tracers were made into 
electrophysiologically identified body part representations. Area 3a has dense
intrinsic connections and receives substantial inputs from the primary motor
cortex (M1), the supplementary motor area (SMA), areas 1 and 2, the second
somatosensory area (S2), and areas in posterior parietal cortex (PP). The
connections of area 3a indicate that integration of cortical representations of
body parts occurs both within area 3a and between area 3a and other somatosensory
and motor areas. In addition, there are differential patterns of interconnections
between behaviorally relevant body part representations of area 3a, such as the
forelimb, compared to other body part representations (hindlimb/ trunk),
especially with 'higher order' cortical fields. This suggests that 3a may be an
important component in a network that generates a common frame of reference for
hand and eye coordinated reaching tasks.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/11.9.849 
PMID: 11532890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

