

314. J Comp Psychol. 2020 May 11. doi: 10.1037/com0000226. [Epub ahead of print]

Comparative assessment of behaviorally derived personality structures in
golden-handed tamarins (Saguinus midas), cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus), 
and common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Masilkova M(1), Weiss A(2), Šlipogor V(3), Konečná M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology.
(2)Department of Psychology.
(3)Department of Behavioral and Cognitive Biology.

One way to address questions about the origins and adaptive significance of
personality dimensions is by comparing the personality structures of closely
related species that differ in their socioecological circumstances. For the
present study, we compared the personalities of captive golden-handed tamarins
(Saguinus midas; N = 28), cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus; N = 20), and
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; N = 17). All 3 species are New World
monkeys of the family Callitrichidae. They thus share reproductive and behavioral
characteristics but differ some in terms of their diet, habitat, and social
organization. We expected that personality structures of closely related tamarin 
species would overlap more, both in terms of number of dimensions and their
content, than either would overlap with the personality structure of common
marmosets. We assessed personality using behavioral observations and compared the
personality structures by means of cross-species correlations and fuzzy set
analyses. Principal component analyses identified components that we labeled
Agreeableness, Assertiveness, and Extraversion in golden-handed tamarins and
common marmosets and components labeled Confidence and Extraversion in cotton-top
tamarins. The greater personality similarities of the two phylogenetically more
distant species suggest that differences in social organization, and in both
habitat diversity and complexity, contributed to the evolution of personality.
However, we also found that behaviors clustered in similar ways in the two
tamarin species, suggesting that phylogenetic relatedness and genus-specific
socioecological characteristics, such as the degree of reproductive competition, 
shaped personality structure in this primate family. (PsycInfo Database Record
(c) 2020 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000226 
PMID: 32391706 


315. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2020 Oct;64:103-110. doi: 10.1016/j.conb.2020.02.013. Epub
2020 May 6.

Common marmoset as a model primate for study of the motor control system.

Matsuzaki M(1), Ebina T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of
Tokyo, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan; Brain Functional Dynamics Collaboration
Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Saitama 351-0198, Japan;
International Research Center for Neurointelligence (WPI-IRCN), The University of
Tokyo Institutes for Advanced Study, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan. Electronic address: 
mzakim@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Physiology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of
Tokyo, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, is emerging as a
promising animal model for biomedical and neuroscience research. This species
shares its basic brain architecture, including the organization of the motor
cortical areas and the connections between these and other areas, with humans and
other primates. Its small and lissencephalic cerebral cortex is suitable for the 
application of modern biological techniques. Optogenetic stimulation of the motor
cortex induces forelimb movements, and two-photon calcium imaging allows
detection of forelimb movement-related activity in multiple motor cortical
neurons. The common marmoset also has a large repertoire of forelimb-related
behaviors and vocal communications. Thus, the common marmoset is a good model for
research into voluntary forelimb movements, social behaviors, and their
dysfunctions.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.conb.2020.02.013 
PMID: 32389894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

