

3140. J Neuroimmunol. 2001 Sep 3;119(1):124-30.

Novel monoclonal antibodies against proteolipid protein peptide 139-151
demonstrate demyelination and myelin uptake by macrophages in MS and marmoset EAE
lesions.

Laman JD(1), Visser L, Maassen CB, de Groot CJ, de Jong LA, 't Hart BA, van Meurs
M, Schellekens MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus University Rotterdam and University Hospital
Dijkzigt, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
Laman@immu.fgg.eur.nl

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by immunization of mice
with epitopes of the proteolipid protein (PLP), a major myelin constituent, forms
a useful model for the study of multiple sclerosis (MS). In addition, MS patients
display PLP-specific T- and B-cell responses, suggesting that PLP reactivity is
relevant to pathogenesis.Here, the generation and characterization of a panel of 
mouse monoclonal antibodies (Mab) against PLP139-151, the prominent
encephalitogenic sequence in SJL/J mice is described. Five Mab were generated by 
conventional immunization of an SJL/J mouse and hybridoma generation. These Mab
reacted well with the PLP139-151 peptide in ELISA and belonged to the IgG2a and
IgG2b subclasses, consistent with CD4+ T helper 1-cell-supported antibody
formation. The Mab also efficiently detected PLP peptide-BSA conjugates in
Western blot, confirming their multi-assay applicability. The Mab were
subsequently used to determine the occurrence of demyelination in brains of MS
patients and marmoset monkeys with EAE. Immunohistochemistry on both paraffin and
frozen sections demonstrated a homogeneous expression of PLP139-151 in normal
myelin, and a complete absence in lesions containing demyelinated areas,
confirming that the Mab can be used as a general myelin marker. In active
demyelinating MS lesions, the Mab visualized the peptide in the cytoplasm of
macrophages containing phagocytosed myelin. In conclusion, this panel of Mab
against the encephalitogenic PLP139-151 epitope forms a useful tool for further
study of autoantigen expression, demyelination/remyelination and the staging of
lesional activity in MS patients, as well as in EAE models in distinct animal
species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5728(01)00356-3 
PMID: 11525809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3141. Exp Neurol. 2001 Sep;171(1):139-46.

Mu- and delta-opioid receptor antagonists reduce levodopa-induced dyskinesia in
the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Henry B(1), Fox SH, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, 1.124 Division of Neuroscience,
School of Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Stopford Building,
Manchester, M13 9PT, United Kingdom.

Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease with levodopa is complicated by the
emergence of involuntary movements, known as levodopa-induced dyskinesia. It has 
been hypothesized that increased opioid transmission in striatal output pathways 
may be responsible for the generation of dyskinesia. In this study, we have
investigated the effect of blockade of opioid peptide transmission on
levodopa-induced dyskinesia in a primate model of Parkinson's disease-the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset. Coadministration of nonselective and mu- or
delta-subtype-selective opioid receptor antagonists with levodopa resulted in a
significant decrease in dyskinesia. There was no attenuation of the
anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa. These data suggest that specific mu- or
delta-opioid receptor antagonists might be applicable clinically in the treatment
of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2001.7727 
PMID: 11520128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

