

3141. Exp Neurol. 2001 Sep;171(1):139-46.

Mu- and delta-opioid receptor antagonists reduce levodopa-induced dyskinesia in
the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Henry B(1), Fox SH, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, 1.124 Division of Neuroscience,
School of Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Stopford Building,
Manchester, M13 9PT, United Kingdom.

Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease with levodopa is complicated by the
emergence of involuntary movements, known as levodopa-induced dyskinesia. It has 
been hypothesized that increased opioid transmission in striatal output pathways 
may be responsible for the generation of dyskinesia. In this study, we have
investigated the effect of blockade of opioid peptide transmission on
levodopa-induced dyskinesia in a primate model of Parkinson's disease-the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset. Coadministration of nonselective and mu- or
delta-subtype-selective opioid receptor antagonists with levodopa resulted in a
significant decrease in dyskinesia. There was no attenuation of the
anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa. These data suggest that specific mu- or
delta-opioid receptor antagonists might be applicable clinically in the treatment
of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2001.7727 
PMID: 11520128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3142. J Virol Methods. 2001 Jul;96(1):93-6.

Efficient isolation of mumps virus from a community outbreak using the marmoset
lymphoblastoid cell line B95a.

Knowles WA(1), Cohen BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Enteric Respiratory and Neurological Virus Laboratory, Virus Reference
Division, Central Public Health Laboratory, 61 Colindale Avenue, London NW9 5HT, 
UK. wknowles@phls.org.uk

The incidence of mumps infection in the UK was reduced greatly by vaccination as 
a component of MMR vaccine, but cases and outbreaks continue to occur. Although
in specialised laboratories RT-PCR is available for detection of mumps virus RNA 
in clinical samples, in routine laboratories virus isolation remains a standard
method for diagnosing mumps virus infection. Furthermore, isolation of mumps
virus strains circulating currently is important for monitoring the ability of
vaccine-induced antibody to neutralise any genotypes recognised recently and to
detect any changes in phenotype. In this study we compared rhesus monkey kidney
(RMK) cells with the cell line B95a for mumps virus isolation from twenty throat 
swabs collected during a mumps outbreak in a religious community with low MMR
coverage. Mumps virus was isolated from eight cases (40%), six were positive in
both cell cultures and two in only one, all positive samples being collected
within 2 days of onset. Virus growth in B95a cells was detected by the production
of a syncytial cytopathic effect, and confirmed by an indirect fluorescent
antibody test using a mumps monoclonal antibody. The B95a cell line was found to 
be equally as sensitive for mumps isolation as RMK cells, which are regarded as
the 'gold standard', thus providing an alternative to the use of primary animal
cell culture.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-0934(01)00326-3 
PMID: 11516492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

