

3144. J Med Primatol. 2001 Jun;30(3):179-84.

Callitrichid nutrition and food sensitivity.

Gore MA(1), Brandes F, Kaup FJ, Lenzner R, Mothes T, Osman AA.

Author information: 
(1)Animal Conservation and Research Department, Royal Zoological Society of
Scotland, Edinburgh, UK. mgore@rzss.org.uk

Captive callitrichids are prone to developing intestinal problems. Their captive 
and natural diets differ enormously, and diet has been suggested to play a major 
role in wasting marmoset syndrome. Proteins in wheat, soy and milk are included
in callitrichid diets of most colonies and have been linked to an immune reaction
in Saguinus oedipus and Callithrix jacchus. In the present study of 23 males and 
females of the two species, wheat protein was tested but soy and milk products
were excluded. One group had wheat and the other had rice in their diet. Blood
samples and biopsies from the colon were taken. Results showed changes in the
colon and an immune reaction to gliadin, a wheat protein related to coeliac
disease in humans. A further immune reaction was also observed. Suggestions for
further study and exclusion of cereal in the diet of these small, New World
primates are discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2001.tb00007.x 
PMID: 11515674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3145. J Neurosci. 2001 Sep 1;21(17):RC163.

The pyramidal cell in cognition: a comparative study in human and monkey.

Elston GN(1), Benavides-Piccione R, DeFelipe J.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch, and Hearing Research Center, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, The University of Queensland, Queensland, 4072, Australia.
G.Elston@vthrc.uq.edu.au

Here we present evidence that the pyramidal cell phenotype varies markedly in the
cortex of different anthropoid species. Regional and species differences in the
size of, number of bifurcations in, and spine density of the basal dendritic
arbors cannot be explained by brain size. Instead, pyramidal cell morphology
appears to accord with the specialized cortical function these cells perform.
Cells in the prefrontal cortex of humans are more branched and more spinous than 
those in the temporal and occipital lobes. Moreover, cells in the prefrontal
cortex of humans are more branched and more spinous than those in the prefrontal 
cortex of macaque and marmoset monkeys. These results suggest that highly
spinous, compartmentalized, pyramidal cells (and the circuits they form) are
required to perform complex cortical functions such as comprehension, perception,
and planning.


PMCID: PMC6763111
PMID: 11511694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

