

3146. J Immunol. 2001 Sep 1;167(5):2942-9.

Prevention of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) using a chimeric antagonist monoclonal antibody against
human CD40 is associated with altered B cell responses.

Boon L(1), Brok HP, Bauer J, Ortiz-Buijsse A, Schellekens MM, Ramdien-Murli S,
Blezer E, van Meurs M, Ceuppens J, de Boer M, 't Hart BA, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Tanox Pharma B.V., Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Inhibition of CD40-CD40 ligand interaction is a potentially effective approach
for treatment of autoimmune diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. We have
investigated this concept with a chimeric antagonist anti-human CD40 mAb (ch5D12)
in the marmoset monkey experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model.
Marmosets were immunized with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (rMOG) and treated from the day before immunization (day -1) until
day 50 with either ch5D12 (5 mg/kg every 2-4 days) or placebo. On day 41 after
the induction of EAE, four of four placebo-treated monkeys had developed severe
clinical EAE, whereas all animals from the ch5D12-treated group were completely
free of disease symptoms. High serum levels of ch5D12 associated with complete
coating of CD40 on circulating B cells were found. At necropsy placebo- and
ch5D12-treated animals showed similar MOG-specific lymphoproliferative responses 
in vitro, but ch5D12 treatment resulted in strongly reduced anti-MOG IgM Ab
responses and delayed anti-MOG IgG responses. Most importantly, treatment with
ch5D12 prevented intramolecular spreading of epitope recognition. Postmortem
magnetic resonance imaging and immunohistologic analysis of the CNS showed a
markedly reduced lesion load after ch5D12 treatment. In conclusion, the strong
reduction of clinical, pathological, and radiological aspects of EAE by ch5D12
treatment in this preclinical model points to a therapeutic potential of this
engineered antagonist anti-CD40 mAb for multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.167.5.2942 
PMID: 11509643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3147. J Virol. 2001 Sep;75(18):8556-68.

An Epstein-Barr virus isolated from a lymphoblastoid cell line has a
16-kilobase-pair deletion which includes gp350 and the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear
antigen 3A.

Lee W(1), Hwang YH, Lee SK, Subramanian C, Robertson ES.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Myongji University, Yongin Kyunggi-do,
Korea.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with human cancers, including
nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, gastric carcinoma and, somewhat
controversially, breast carcinoma. EBV infects and efficiently transforms human
primary B lymphocytes in vitro. A number of EBV-encoded genes are critical for
EBV-mediated transformation of human B lymphocytes. In this study we show that an
EBV-infected lymphoblastoid cell line obtained from the spontaneous outgrowth of 
B cells from a leukemia patient contains a deletion, which involves a region of
approximately 16 kbp. This deletion encodes major EBV genes involved in both
infection and transformation of human primary B lymphocytes and includes the
glycoprotein gp350, the entire open reading frame of EBNA3A, and the
amino-terminal region of EBNA3B. A fusion protein created by this deletion, which
lies between the BMRF1 early antigen and the EBNA3B latent antigen, is truncated 
immediately downstream of the junction 21 amino acids into the region of the
EBNA3B sequence, which is out of frame with respect to the EBNA3B protein
sequence, and indicates that EBNA3B is not expressed. The fusion is from EBV
coordinate 80299 within the BMRF1 sequence to coordinate 90998 in the EBNA3B
sequence. Additionally, we have shown that there is no detectable induction in
viral replication observed when SNU-265 is treated with phorbol esters, and no
transformants were detected when supernatant is used to infect primary B
lymphocytes after 8 weeks in culture. Therefore, we have identified an EBV genome
with a major deletion in critical genes involved in mediating EBV infection and
the transformation of human primary B lymphocytes that is incompetent for
replication of this naturally occurring EBV isolate.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.75.18.8556-8568.2001 
PMCID: PMC115101
PMID: 11507201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

