

3147. J Virol. 2001 Sep;75(18):8556-68.

An Epstein-Barr virus isolated from a lymphoblastoid cell line has a
16-kilobase-pair deletion which includes gp350 and the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear
antigen 3A.

Lee W(1), Hwang YH, Lee SK, Subramanian C, Robertson ES.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Myongji University, Yongin Kyunggi-do,
Korea.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with human cancers, including
nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Burkitt's lymphoma, gastric carcinoma and, somewhat
controversially, breast carcinoma. EBV infects and efficiently transforms human
primary B lymphocytes in vitro. A number of EBV-encoded genes are critical for
EBV-mediated transformation of human B lymphocytes. In this study we show that an
EBV-infected lymphoblastoid cell line obtained from the spontaneous outgrowth of 
B cells from a leukemia patient contains a deletion, which involves a region of
approximately 16 kbp. This deletion encodes major EBV genes involved in both
infection and transformation of human primary B lymphocytes and includes the
glycoprotein gp350, the entire open reading frame of EBNA3A, and the
amino-terminal region of EBNA3B. A fusion protein created by this deletion, which
lies between the BMRF1 early antigen and the EBNA3B latent antigen, is truncated 
immediately downstream of the junction 21 amino acids into the region of the
EBNA3B sequence, which is out of frame with respect to the EBNA3B protein
sequence, and indicates that EBNA3B is not expressed. The fusion is from EBV
coordinate 80299 within the BMRF1 sequence to coordinate 90998 in the EBNA3B
sequence. Additionally, we have shown that there is no detectable induction in
viral replication observed when SNU-265 is treated with phorbol esters, and no
transformants were detected when supernatant is used to infect primary B
lymphocytes after 8 weeks in culture. Therefore, we have identified an EBV genome
with a major deletion in critical genes involved in mediating EBV infection and
the transformation of human primary B lymphocytes that is incompetent for
replication of this naturally occurring EBV isolate.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.75.18.8556-8568.2001 
PMCID: PMC115101
PMID: 11507201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3148. Anat Rec. 2001 Sep 1;264(1):82-92.

Characteristics of the uterine luminal surface epithelium at preovulatory and
preimplantation stages in the marmoset monkey.

Niklaus AL(1), Murphy CR, Lopata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Melbourne, Victoria
3053, Australia. anikl001@umaryland.edu

Light and electron microscopy was used to examine the apical luminal epithelial
surface of the uterus at preovulatory and preimplantation stages in the marmoset 
monkey. Luminal surface charge, detected by cationic ferritin staining,
progressively decreased from preovulation to day 11 of pregnancy. The smooth,
regular apical plasma membrane at preovulatory stages was in contrast to the
convoluted, irregular surface observed during early pregnancy, especially at 1
day before blastocyst implantation. Profiles of microvilli were also altered,
becoming thicker and more irregular during early pregnancy. Within the epithelial
cell body, cyclic morphologic changes were seen, largely in association with
secretory organelles. Giant phagocytic bodies were prominent at all stages
examined, although their composition and intensity of staining varied throughout 
the cycle. Weak to moderate estrogen alpha and progesterone receptor
immunostaining of the luminal epithelium was found during preovulatory and early 
pregnancy stages. This study describes complex cyclic changes in the morphology
and biochemical make-up of the uterine luminal epithelial surface in a New World 
monkey in preparation for blastocyst attachment.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1124 
PMID: 11505374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

