

315. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2020 Oct;64:103-110. doi: 10.1016/j.conb.2020.02.013. Epub
2020 May 6.

Common marmoset as a model primate for study of the motor control system.

Matsuzaki M(1), Ebina T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of
Tokyo, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan; Brain Functional Dynamics Collaboration
Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Saitama 351-0198, Japan;
International Research Center for Neurointelligence (WPI-IRCN), The University of
Tokyo Institutes for Advanced Study, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan. Electronic address: 
mzakim@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Physiology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of
Tokyo, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, is emerging as a
promising animal model for biomedical and neuroscience research. This species
shares its basic brain architecture, including the organization of the motor
cortical areas and the connections between these and other areas, with humans and
other primates. Its small and lissencephalic cerebral cortex is suitable for the 
application of modern biological techniques. Optogenetic stimulation of the motor
cortex induces forelimb movements, and two-photon calcium imaging allows
detection of forelimb movement-related activity in multiple motor cortical
neurons. The common marmoset also has a large repertoire of forelimb-related
behaviors and vocal communications. Thus, the common marmoset is a good model for
research into voluntary forelimb movements, social behaviors, and their
dysfunctions.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.conb.2020.02.013 
PMID: 32389894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Primates. 2020 Nov;61(6):807-816. doi: 10.1007/s10329-020-00826-1. Epub 2020 May 
7.

Wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) employ spatial cognitive abilities to 
improve their food search and consumption: an experimental approach in
small-scale space.

Abreu F(1), Souto A(2), Schiel N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil. filipaabreu88@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Av. Professor Moraes 
Rego, 1235, Recife, PE, 50670-901, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil.

The ability of an animal to integrate and retain spatial information of resources
often depends on the spatial memory and the speed at which this memory
crystallizes. These become especially important once foragers reach their target 
area. However, very little is known about how wild common marmosets encode
spatial information when feeding rewards are near to each other in a small-scale 
space. With this in mind, we performed field experiments to test foraging
decisions related to a small-scale space setting. Specifically, we tested the (i)
short- and (ii) long-term spatial memory, as well as (iii) the ability to
remember the spatial location of resources after a single visit (one-trial
spatial learning). The study was conducted with four groups of wild common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) living in a semiarid Caatinga environment. We
observed that individuals were able to retain spatial information of food sources
on both a short- and long-term basis and to learn the spatial location of these
resources after a single visit. We suggest that such abilities during foraging
can improve the search for scattered resources with fluctuations of food
availability. Presumably, this would be particularly advantageous in Caatinga,
with its vegetation exhibiting asynchronous phenological patterns. Altogether,
our results demonstrate that common marmosets employ all three studied spatial
cognitive abilities to improve their food search and consumption.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-020-00826-1 
PMID: 32383127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

