

3152. Mov Disord. 2001 Jul;16(4):642-50.

Neural mechanisms underlying peak-dose dyskinesia induced by levodopa and
apomorphine are distinct: evidence from the effects of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor 
antagonist idazoxan.

Fox SH(1), Henry B, Hill MP, Peggs D, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Walton Centre for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Liverpool, United Kingdom.

Dyskinesia, secondary to dopamine replacement therapy, is the major complication 
of currently available therapies for Parkinson's disease. Alpha(2) adrenoceptor
antagonists, such as idazoxan, can significantly reduce levodopa-induced
dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned,
nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease and in human. This action of
adrenoceptor antagonists may involve blockade of the actions of noradrenaline
synthesised from levodopa. We hypothesise that, because dopamine receptor
agonists, such as apomorphine, cannot be metabolised to produce noradrenaline,
activation of adrenoceptors may not be involved in dyskinesia produced by such
agents. If this were the case, idazoxan would not be expected to reduce
apomorphine-induced dyskinesia. MPTP-lesioned marmosets with stable dyskinesia
induced by prolonged levodopa therapy were given an acute challenge with
apomorphine (0.3 mg/kg subcutaneously) or levodopa (8.0 mg/kg orally), these
doses produced equivalent peak-dose dyskinesia. Idazoxan (2.5 mg/kg p.o.), or
vehicle, was then administered with either apomorphine or levodopa. Idazoxan
abolished levodopa-induced dyskinesia but did not affect apomorphine-induced
dyskinesia (P < 0.05 and P > 0.05, respectively, Wilcoxon matched pairs test).
Idazoxan also extended the anti-parkinsonian actions of levodopa but did not
affect those of apomorphine. The pharmacological characteristics of the neural
mechanisms underlying levodopa-induced dyskinesia and apomorphine-induced
dyskinesia in parkinsonism thus appear to be distinct, at least with respect to
the involvement of alpha(2) adrenoceptors. Specifically, levodopa, but not
apomorphine-induced dyskinesia, involves activation of adrenoceptors. This
finding may have major implications for understanding dyskinesia and should be
borne in mind when designing clinical studies in which levodopa or dopamine
receptor agonist challenges are employed to assess potential anti-dyskinetic
properties of drugs.

Copyright 2001 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.1148 
PMID: 11481687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3153. Mov Disord. 2001 Jul;16(4):631-41.

Antiparkinsonian activity and dyskinesia risk of ropinirole and L-DOPA
combination therapy in drug na√Øve MPTP-lesioned common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Maratos EC(1), Jackson MJ, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

De novo administration of long-acting dopamine agonists, such as ropinirole, to
patients with Parkinson's disease or to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated subhuman primates
produces a lower incidence of dyskinesia than occurs with L-DOPA. This study
compares the intensity of dyskinesia produced by combinations of L-DOPA and
ropinirole and by these drugs alone, using the MPTP-treated common marmoset model
of Parkinson's disease. The objective is to determine the optimum therapeutic
strategy for the long-term control of Parkinson's disease with a minimal risk of 
dyskinesia. MPTP-treated marmosets received either L-DOPA alone, ropinirole
alone, or one of two combinations of these drugs (either L-DOPA dominant or
ropinirole dominant) daily for 28 days in doses titrated to produce a similar
improvement in disability and increase in locomotion. In the group receiving
L-DOPA alone, there was a trend for peak dose locomotor activity to increase and 
the duration of drug effect to decline over the period of the study. L-DOPA alone
induced marked dyskinesia over the period of treatment, in contrast to ropinirole
which produced a low intensity of involuntary movements. The L-DOPA dominant
combination initially produced little dyskinesia, but this became increasingly
intense as the study progressed. In contrast, the ropinirole dominant combination
produced no greater intensity of dyskinesia than was produced by ropinirole
alone. These data suggest that in early Parkinson's disease, the use of
ropinirole alone or in combination with a low-dose L-DOPA might delay the
induction of dyskinesias while improving motor performance.

Copyright 2001 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.1149 
PMID: 11481686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

