

3154. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2001 Jun;939:297-308.

On the relationship between plasma concentrations of drugs and outcome of stroke 
studies in laboratory animals.

Curry SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, University of Rochester, New York, 
USA. stephenhcurry@earthlink.net

In assessing plasma concentrations of drugs in relation to neuroprotective
effect, emphasis should be placed on measured or calculated concentrations during
the window of opportunity for effect, rather than at the end of the experiment.
Unbound (plasma free) concentrations should be especially considered as should
brain penetration to the stroked area. Problem-solving exercises should include
post hoc assessment of dosing residues and proof of exposure. The shape of the
graph of response versus concentration in plasma is very steep, giving the
impression of an all-or-none effect. Although higher doses lead to greater
effects, attempts to statistically correlate plasma level and infarct size are
likely to be unsuccessful. There is strong evidence that the pharmacokinetic
properties of drugs are affected by the physiological consequences of ischemia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2001.tb03637.x 
PMID: 11462783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3155. Neuroreport. 2001 Jul 20;12(10):2231-6.

Functional imaging of brain activity in conscious monkeys responding to sexually 
arousing cues.

Ferris CF(1), Snowdon CT, King JA, Duong TQ, Ziegler TE, Ugurbil K, Ludwig R,
Schultz-Darken NJ, Wu Z, Olson DP, Sullivan JM Jr, Tannenbaum PL, Vaughan JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 55 Lake 
Ave North, Worcester, MA 01655, USA.

Olfactory cues can elicit intense emotional responses. This study used fMRI in
male common marmoset monkeys to identify brain areas associated with sexual
arousal in response to odors of ovulating female monkeys. Under light anesthesia,
monkeys were secured in a specially designed restrainer and positioned in a 9.4 T
magnetic resonance spectrometer. When fully conscious, they were presented with
the scents of both ovariectomized and ovulating monkeys. The sexually arousing
odors of the ovulating monkeys enhanced signal intensity in the preoptic area and
anterior hypothalamus compared to the odors of ovariectomized monkeys. These data
corroborate previous findings in monkeys based on invasive electrical lesion and 
stimulation techniques and demonstrate the feasibility of using non-invasive
functional imaging on fully conscious common marmosets to study cue-elicited
emotional responses.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-200107200-00037 
PMID: 11447340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

