

3159. Endocrinology. 2001 Jul;142(7):3244-54.

Angiogenesis during follicular development in the primate and its inhibition by
treatment with truncated Flt-1-Fc (vascular endothelial growth factor Trap(A40)).

Wulff C(1), Wiegand SJ, Saunders PT, Scobie GA, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, EH3 9ET Edinburgh,
United Kingdom. cwulff@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The aims of this study were to 1) quantify changes in angiogenesis during
follicular growth in a primate model; 2) investigate the molecular regulation
using in situ hybridization of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), its
receptor, Flt-1, the angiopoietins (Ang-1 and Ang-2), and their receptor, Tie-2; 
3) elucidate the role of VEGF in follicular angiogenesis by blocking its action
by treatment with a soluble truncated form of the Flt-1 receptor, (VEGF
Trap(A40)). Changes in angiogenesis were quantified using bromodeoxyuridine to
obtain a proliferation index, and CD31 immunocytochemistry to visualize
endothelial cell area. Percentage of proliferating endothelial cells was
calculated by double labeling for bromodeoxyuridine and CD31. Vascularization was
first observed in follicles containing four granulosa cell layers. A significant 
increase in proliferation in the thecal layer was observed from the early to late
secondary stage, and dual staining showed that 25% of proliferating cells were of
endothelial cell origin. VEGF messenger RNA (mRNA) was expressed in granulosa
cells with an increase of grain density from late secondary to tertiary
follicles. Ang-1 was weakly expressed in the theca of tertiary follicles. Ang-2
mRNA was not detected in any follicles. The mRNA for the Flt-1 and Tie-2
receptors was localized in endothelial cells of the theca. Unexpectedly, Tie-2
mRNA was also found in granulosa cells of early follicular stages and its
translation was confirmed by immunocytochemistry. VEGF trap treatment for 3 days 
resulted in an 87% decrease of proliferation in the theca of secondary and
tertiary follicles, a reduction in endothelial cell area and a marked decline in 
Flt-1 mRNA expression. Granulosa cell proliferation also decreased. These results
show that onset and establishment of the follicle vasculature takes place early
during follicular development. The ability of VEGF trap treatment to severely
restrict follicular angiogenesis establishes that VEGF is the major regulator of 
this process in the primate ovary.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.142.7.8258 
PMID: 11416048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3160. Arzneimittelforschung. 2001;51(5):425-32.

Four-week oral toxicity studies of the new quinolone antibacterial agent
cetefloxacin tosylate in rats and marmoset monkeys.

Guzmán A(1), García C, Marín AP, Demestre I.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Department, Laboratorios Dr. Esteve S.A., Barcelona, Spain.

Four-week oral toxicity studies with cetefloxacin tosylate
((-)-7[3-(R)-amino-2-(S)-methyl-1-azetidinyl]-1-(2,4-
difluorophenyl)-1,4-dihydro-6-fluoro-4-oxo-3-quinolinecarboxylic acid tosylate,
CAS 141725-88-4 (base), E-4868.Ts) a new quinolone antibacterial agent, were
performed in Sprague-Dawley rats and marmoset monkeys at doses of 100, 450, 2000 
mg/kg/d and 25, 50, 125, 300 mg/kg/d, respectively. In rats, due to its toxicity 
the high dose was decreased to 1000 mg/kg/d after 3 days of treatment. Mortality 
was recorded among high dose rats receiving 2000 or 1000 mg/kg/d. Rats receiving 
dosages of 450 or 2000/1000 mg/kg/d showed less activated mandibular lymph nodes,
cortical lymphocyte depletion of mandibular and/or mesenteric lymph nodes,
atrophy of the white pulp of the spleen, cortical atrophy of thymus and thymic
apoptosis. Enlarged caeca, increased water consumption and variations in plasma
electrolyte levels were observed in animals receiving these dosages and in male
rats receiving 100 mg/kg/d. Low neutrophil counts were observed in rats receiving
dosages of 100 or 450 mg/kg/d, and increased alkaline phosphatase and alanine
transaminase plasma levels and slightly decreased plasma protein levels in
females receiving 450 or 2000/1000 mg/kg/d. Marmosets receiving dosages of 50
mg/kg/d and above displayed several clinical signs which included emesis,
diarrhoea, ptosis, occasional episodes of under- and overactivity, and excessive 
scratching activity. Skin reddening was observed during the first week of
treatment in marmosets receiving 300 mg/kg/d. On the basis of the results
obtained it can be concluded that the non-toxic doses of E-4868. Ts after 4-week 
oral administration in rats and marmoset monkeys were 100 and 25 mg/kg/d,
respectively.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1300058 
PMID: 11413745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

