

316. Primates. 2020 Nov;61(6):807-816. doi: 10.1007/s10329-020-00826-1. Epub 2020 May 
7.

Wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) employ spatial cognitive abilities to 
improve their food search and consumption: an experimental approach in
small-scale space.

Abreu F(1), Souto A(2), Schiel N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil. filipaabreu88@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Av. Professor Moraes 
Rego, 1235, Recife, PE, 50670-901, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil.

The ability of an animal to integrate and retain spatial information of resources
often depends on the spatial memory and the speed at which this memory
crystallizes. These become especially important once foragers reach their target 
area. However, very little is known about how wild common marmosets encode
spatial information when feeding rewards are near to each other in a small-scale 
space. With this in mind, we performed field experiments to test foraging
decisions related to a small-scale space setting. Specifically, we tested the (i)
short- and (ii) long-term spatial memory, as well as (iii) the ability to
remember the spatial location of resources after a single visit (one-trial
spatial learning). The study was conducted with four groups of wild common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) living in a semiarid Caatinga environment. We
observed that individuals were able to retain spatial information of food sources
on both a short- and long-term basis and to learn the spatial location of these
resources after a single visit. We suggest that such abilities during foraging
can improve the search for scattered resources with fluctuations of food
availability. Presumably, this would be particularly advantageous in Caatinga,
with its vegetation exhibiting asynchronous phenological patterns. Altogether,
our results demonstrate that common marmosets employ all three studied spatial
cognitive abilities to improve their food search and consumption.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-020-00826-1 
PMID: 32383127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2020 Apr 21;10:135. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00135.
eCollection 2020.

Marmoset Viral Hepatic Inflammation Induced by Hepatitis C Virus Core Protein via
IL-32.

Liu B(1), Ma X(1), Wang Q(1), Luo S(1), Zhang L(1), Wang W(1), Fu Y(2), Allain
JP(3), Li C(1), Li T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, School of Laboratory Medicine and
Biotechnology, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Guangzhou Blood Center, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Emeritus Professor of Transfusion Medicine, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Common marmosets infected with GB virus-B (GBV-B) chimeras containing hepatitis C
virus (HCV) core and envelope proteins (CE1E2p7) developed more severe hepatitis 
than those infected with HCV envelope proteins (E1E2p7), suggesting that HCV core
protein might be involved in the pathogenesis of viral hepatitis. The potential
role of HCV core in hepatic inflammation was investigated. Six individual cDNA
libraries of liver tissues from HCV CE1E2p7 or E1E2p7 chimera-infected marmosets 
(three animals per group) were constructed and sequenced. By differential
expression gene analysis, 30 of 632 mRNA transcripts were correlated with the
immune system process, which might be associated with hepatitis. A
protein-protein interaction network was constituted by STRING database based on
these 30 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), showing that IL-32 might play a
central regulatory role in HCV core-related hepatitis. To investigate the effect 
of HCV core protein on IL-32 production, HCV core expressing and mock constructs 
were transfected into Huh7 cells. IL-32 mRNA and secretion protein were detected 
at significantly higher levels in cells expressing HCV core protein than in those
without HCV core expression (P < 0.01 and P < 0.001, respectively). By KEGG
enrichment analysis and using the specific signaling pathway inhibitor LY294002
for inhibition of PI3K, IL-32 expression was significantly reduced (P < 0.001).
In conclusion, HCV core protein induces an increase of IL-32 expression via the
PI3K pathway in hepatic cells, which played a major role in development of
HCV-related severe hepatitis.

Copyright Â© 2020 Liu, Ma, Wang, Luo, Zhang, Wang, Fu, Allain, Li and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2020.00135 
PMCID: PMC7186372
PMID: 32373543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

