

3160. Arzneimittelforschung. 2001;51(5):425-32.

Four-week oral toxicity studies of the new quinolone antibacterial agent
cetefloxacin tosylate in rats and marmoset monkeys.

Guzmán A(1), García C, Marín AP, Demestre I.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Department, Laboratorios Dr. Esteve S.A., Barcelona, Spain.

Four-week oral toxicity studies with cetefloxacin tosylate
((-)-7[3-(R)-amino-2-(S)-methyl-1-azetidinyl]-1-(2,4-
difluorophenyl)-1,4-dihydro-6-fluoro-4-oxo-3-quinolinecarboxylic acid tosylate,
CAS 141725-88-4 (base), E-4868.Ts) a new quinolone antibacterial agent, were
performed in Sprague-Dawley rats and marmoset monkeys at doses of 100, 450, 2000 
mg/kg/d and 25, 50, 125, 300 mg/kg/d, respectively. In rats, due to its toxicity 
the high dose was decreased to 1000 mg/kg/d after 3 days of treatment. Mortality 
was recorded among high dose rats receiving 2000 or 1000 mg/kg/d. Rats receiving 
dosages of 450 or 2000/1000 mg/kg/d showed less activated mandibular lymph nodes,
cortical lymphocyte depletion of mandibular and/or mesenteric lymph nodes,
atrophy of the white pulp of the spleen, cortical atrophy of thymus and thymic
apoptosis. Enlarged caeca, increased water consumption and variations in plasma
electrolyte levels were observed in animals receiving these dosages and in male
rats receiving 100 mg/kg/d. Low neutrophil counts were observed in rats receiving
dosages of 100 or 450 mg/kg/d, and increased alkaline phosphatase and alanine
transaminase plasma levels and slightly decreased plasma protein levels in
females receiving 450 or 2000/1000 mg/kg/d. Marmosets receiving dosages of 50
mg/kg/d and above displayed several clinical signs which included emesis,
diarrhoea, ptosis, occasional episodes of under- and overactivity, and excessive 
scratching activity. Skin reddening was observed during the first week of
treatment in marmosets receiving 300 mg/kg/d. On the basis of the results
obtained it can be concluded that the non-toxic doses of E-4868. Ts after 4-week 
oral administration in rats and marmoset monkeys were 100 and 25 mg/kg/d,
respectively.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1300058 
PMID: 11413745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3161. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Jul 2;435(3):291-310.

Thalamo-cortical connections of areas 3a and M1 in marmoset monkeys.

Huffman KJ(1), Krubitzer L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Department of Psychology, University of
California, Davis, Davis, California 95616, USA.

The present investigation is part of a broader effort to examine cortical areas
that contribute to manual dexterity, reaching, and grasping. In this study we
examine the thalamic connections of electrophysiologically defined regions in
area 3a and architectonically defined primary motor cortex (M1). Our studies
demonstrate that area 3a receives input from nuclei associated with the
somatosensory system: the superior, inferior, and lateral divisions of the
ventral posterior complex (VPs, VPi, and VPl, respectively). Surprisingly, area
3a receives the majority of its input from thalamic nuclei associated with the
motor system, posterior division of the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus
(VL), the mediodorsal nucleus (MD), and intralaminar nuclei including the central
lateral nucleus (CL) and the centre median nucleus (CM). In addition, sparse but 
consistent projections to area 3a are from the anterior pulvinar (Pla).
Projections from the thalamus to the cortex immediately rostral to area 3a, in
the architectonically defined M1, are predominantly from VL, VA, CL, and MD.
There is a conspicuous absence of inputs from the nuclei associated with
processing somatic inputs (VP complex). Our results indicate that area 3a is much
like a motor area, in part because of its substantial connections with motor
nuclei of the thalamus and motor areas of the neocortex (Huffman et al. [2000]
Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 25:1116). The indirect input from the cerebellum and basal 
ganglia via the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus supports its role in
proprioception. Furthermore, the presence of input from somatosensory thalamic
nuclei suggests that it plays an important role in somatosensory and motor
integration.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1031 
PMID: 11406813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

