

3161. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Jul 2;435(3):291-310.

Thalamo-cortical connections of areas 3a and M1 in marmoset monkeys.

Huffman KJ(1), Krubitzer L.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Department of Psychology, University of
California, Davis, Davis, California 95616, USA.

The present investigation is part of a broader effort to examine cortical areas
that contribute to manual dexterity, reaching, and grasping. In this study we
examine the thalamic connections of electrophysiologically defined regions in
area 3a and architectonically defined primary motor cortex (M1). Our studies
demonstrate that area 3a receives input from nuclei associated with the
somatosensory system: the superior, inferior, and lateral divisions of the
ventral posterior complex (VPs, VPi, and VPl, respectively). Surprisingly, area
3a receives the majority of its input from thalamic nuclei associated with the
motor system, posterior division of the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus
(VL), the mediodorsal nucleus (MD), and intralaminar nuclei including the central
lateral nucleus (CL) and the centre median nucleus (CM). In addition, sparse but 
consistent projections to area 3a are from the anterior pulvinar (Pla).
Projections from the thalamus to the cortex immediately rostral to area 3a, in
the architectonically defined M1, are predominantly from VL, VA, CL, and MD.
There is a conspicuous absence of inputs from the nuclei associated with
processing somatic inputs (VP complex). Our results indicate that area 3a is much
like a motor area, in part because of its substantial connections with motor
nuclei of the thalamus and motor areas of the neocortex (Huffman et al. [2000]
Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 25:1116). The indirect input from the cerebellum and basal 
ganglia via the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus supports its role in
proprioception. Furthermore, the presence of input from somatosensory thalamic
nuclei suggests that it plays an important role in somatosensory and motor
integration.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1031 
PMID: 11406813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3162. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2001 May;155(2):135-43.

Clozapine enhances breakpoint in common marmosets responding on a progressive
ratio schedule.

Cilia J(1), Piper DC, Upton N, Hagan JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research, GlaxoSmithKline, Harlow, Essex, UK.

RATIONALE: Motivational effects of psychotropic drugs may contribute to their
therapeutic profile and progressive ratio (PR) schedules provide a method of
measuring these effects in animals.
OBJECTIVE: Determine effects of selected antipsychotic, psychotomimetic,
anxiolytic and antidepressant drugs on PR performance in common marmosets.
METHOD: Marmosets were trained to lever press for banana milkshake reinforcement 
using a PR schedule, in which the number of lever presses to achieve successive
reinforcements increased by one until responding ceased (breakpoint).
RESULTS: Clozapine administered intramuscularly (0.01-2 mg/kg IM; 30 min
pretreatment time (ptt) or by oral gavage (0.1-4 mg/kg PO; 60 min ptt)
significantly increased the breakpoint. Independent tests of fluid consumption
failed to show enhanced fluid intake after clozapine pretreatment, suggesting
this effect was not due to drug induced polydipsia. Neither haloperidol
(0.005-0.1 mg/kg PO; 60 min ptt) nor risperidone (0.0025-0.05 mg/kg PO; 60 min
ptt) altered breakpoint. Olanzapine (0.01-1 mg/kg PO; 60 min ptt) significantly
enhanced the breakpoint at 0.05 mg/kg PO, but the effect was not robust.
Amphetamine (0.2-2 mg/kg SC; 30 min ptt) significantly reduced the breakpoint at 
2 mg/kg and fluoxetine (0.1-1 mg/kg PO; 60 min ptt) was without effect. Diazepam 
significantly increased the breakpoint at 0.5 mg/kg PO. Drug-induced polydipsia
might play a role in this response as independent tests showed increased fluid
consumption following diazepam.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that, unlike other antipsychotics,
clozapine over a wide dose range increased the motivational state of marmosets to
respond for banana milkshake. This motivational aspect of clozapine's actions may
contribute to its unique clinical profile and the PR procedure may provide a
method for detecting novel antipsychotics with a clozapine-like profile.

DOI: 10.1007/s002130100682 
PMID: 11401001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

