

3167. J Chem Ecol. 2001 Jan;27(1):93-107.

Chemical ecological characteristics of herbivory of Siparuna guianensis seeds by 
buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps) in the Atlantic Forest of
southeastern Brazil.

Simas NK(1), Ferrari SF, Pereira SN, Leitão GG.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisas de Produtos Naturais Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro Bloco H, CCS, Ilha do Fundão 21.941-590, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The buffy-headed marmoset (Callithrix flaviceps) is apparently the only
predispersal herbivore of the seeds of Siparuna guianensis at the Caratinga
Biological Station in southeastern Brazil. Both the fruit receptacles and the
frutioles (seeds) of S. guianensis are relatively rich in nutrients such as
carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids, but the receptacles contain high
concentrations of benzylisoquinoline alkaloids. The latter presumably act as a
qualitative chemical defense, impeding the access of potential predators to the
alkaloid-poor frutioles. However, on ripening, the receptacle splits open,
exposing the frutioles, which enables C. flaviceps to avoid the plant's chemical 
defenses effectively. Taking care to avoid contact with the receptacle, the
marmosets pluck out the frutioles and ingest the seeds. Qualitative and
quantitative changes (in particular a significant reduction in daily ranging) in 
the marmosets' behavior during the period when S. guianensis frutioles were
accessible indicate that this was a preferred plant resource. This is the first
record of the consumption of S. guianensis seeds by callitrichine monkeys (which 
are not known to be systematic seed eaters), despite the fact that both are
widely distributed in the Neotropics. It is thus possible that the behavioral
strategy observed here is a unique phenomenon resulting from a specific
combination of factors, including the abundance of S. guianensis within the study
area. The lack of other records may nevertheless be a result of insufficient
sampling effort, in which case, the feeding strategies of callitrichines may have
an important influence on the reproductive biology of S. guianensis in many
areas.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005672017673 
PMID: 11382070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3168. Gene. 2001 May 16;269(1-2):45-51.

Genomic and spectral analyses of long to middle wavelength-sensitive visual
pigments of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kawamura S(1), Hirai M, Takenaka O, Radlwimmer FB, Yokoyama S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrated Biosciences, Graduate School of Frontier Sciences,
The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, 113-0033, Tokyo, Japan.
kawamura@k.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The genetic basis of red-green color vision of common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) is not fully understood. Here, we have cloned and characterized the
three alleles at a locus that encode the long to middle wavelength-sensitive
(LWS/MWS) visual pigments of this species. Using in situ hybridization, we
localized this locus to the telomeric region of the long arm of X chromosome. The
three visual pigments achieve the wavelengths of maximal absorption at 561, 553, 
and 539 nm and fully explain the red-green color vision of the common marmoset.
The 'tri-allelic single-locus X-chromosome' model operates under the unique
phenomenon, known as blood chimerism.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(01)00454-1 
PMID: 11376936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

