

3168. Gene. 2001 May 16;269(1-2):45-51.

Genomic and spectral analyses of long to middle wavelength-sensitive visual
pigments of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kawamura S(1), Hirai M, Takenaka O, Radlwimmer FB, Yokoyama S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrated Biosciences, Graduate School of Frontier Sciences,
The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, 113-0033, Tokyo, Japan.
kawamura@k.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The genetic basis of red-green color vision of common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) is not fully understood. Here, we have cloned and characterized the
three alleles at a locus that encode the long to middle wavelength-sensitive
(LWS/MWS) visual pigments of this species. Using in situ hybridization, we
localized this locus to the telomeric region of the long arm of X chromosome. The
three visual pigments achieve the wavelengths of maximal absorption at 561, 553, 
and 539 nm and fully explain the red-green color vision of the common marmoset.
The 'tri-allelic single-locus X-chromosome' model operates under the unique
phenomenon, known as blood chimerism.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(01)00454-1 
PMID: 11376936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3169. Am J Primatol. 2001 Jun;54(2):119-26.

Abundance, diversity, and patterns of distribution of primates on the Tapiche
River in Amazonian Peru.

Bennett CL(1), Leonard S, Carter S.

Author information: 
(1)Dallas Zoo, Dallas, Texas 75203, USA. dzconsrc@airmail.net

This work presents data on the relative diversity, abundance, and distribution
patterns of primates in a 20 km2 area of the Tapiche River in the Peruvian
Amazon. Population data were collected while the study area was both inundated
and dry (March to September 1997) using conventional line-transect census
techniques. Survey results reflected the presence of 11 primate species, but
population parameters on only eight of the species will be presented, including
saddleback tamarins (Saguinus fuscicollis), Bolivian squirrel monkeys (Saimiri
boliviensis), brown capuchins (Cebus apella), white-fronted capuchins (Cebus
albifrons), monk sakis (Pithecia monachus), red titi monkeys (Callicebus
cupreus), red uakaris (Cacajao calvus), and red howler monkeys (Alouatta
seniculus). Woolly monkeys (Lagothrix lagotricha), night monkeys (Aotus
nancymaae), and pygmy marmosets (Callithrix pygmaea) were also seen in the area. 
The data for the smaller-bodied primates is similar to that reported almost 18
years earlier, but the data for the larger-bodied primates reflect a loss in the 
number of animals present in the area. Pressure from hunters and the timber
industry may account for declining numbers of large-bodied primates, while it
appears that natural features peculiar to the conservation area contribute to the
patchy pattern of distribution.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1017 
PMID: 11376449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

