

3179. Physiol Behav. 2001 Apr;72(5):713-20.

Prolactin levels are elevated after infant carrying in parentally inexperienced
common marmosets.

Roberts RL(1), Jenkins KT, Lawler T, Wegner FH, Norcross JL, Bernhards DE, Newman
JD.

Author information: 
(1)Unit on Developmental Neuroethology, Laboratory of Comparative Ethology,
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, NIH Animal Center, P.O.
Box 529, Poolesville, MD 20837, USA. lr123@nih.gov

Alloparental behavior (parental behavior directed to nondescendant young) is
pervasive among human cultures but rare among other mammals. New World primates
of the family Callitrichidae, including common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus
jacchus), dwell in large families and many family members carry and/or provision 
infants. This study experimentally characterized alloparenting in common
marmosets by measuring infant retrieval and carrying outside of the context of
the family group. Prolactin was measured in samples collected before and after
infant exposure to determine whether elevated prolactin levels were predictive of
alloparental responsiveness. Seventeen nonbreeding, parentally inexperienced,
singly or peer-housed common marmosets (10 females, 7 males, 6-66 months of age) 
were tested repeatedly in an infant retrieval paradigm. Infant retrieval was
shown by 5 out of 17 monkeys (29%) in their first test. The rate of retrieval
increased to 10 monkeys (59%) by the fourth test. No significant differences in
age, sex, or housing condition existed between monkeys that retrieved infants and
those not retrieving. Prolactin concentrations were significantly elevated in
serum obtained after testing only in monkeys that retrieved infants. Prolactin
levels after infant exposure were positively related to carrying duration. A
separate experiment verified that neither prolactin nor cortisol was
significantly elevated in response to prolonged handling. Cortisol levels were
inversely proportional to handling time. Prolactin levels were not significantly 
related to handling time. Our results indicate that alloparental behavior is
expressed at high rates after minimal infant experience, and prolactin levels
rise concomitantly with the expression of alloparental behavior in this species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(01)00430-9 
PMID: 11337003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3180. Mol Cell Biochem. 2001 Feb;218(1-2):157-63.

Identification of beta subunit of the rhesus monkey chorionic gonadotropin
(rmCG).

Chen Y(1), Liu Z, Wang B, Peng JP.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing.

Chorionic gonadotropin (CG) is a placental derived hormone that plays a crucial
role in successful implantation and establishment of early pregnancy in the
primates. The rhesus monkey was chosen as a model to understand the feasibility
of developing human DNA immuno-contraceptive. The coding region of rhesus monkey 
CG beta-subunit (rmCGbeta) was isolated by the TDRT-PCR method. The nucleotide
sequence including the leader peptide was 499 nucleotide long and encoded 166
amino acids. In comparing with the previous known primates CG beta-subunits, the 
rmCGbeta was the highest degree of homology with baboon CG beta-subunit at the
deduced amino acid sequence (94%), 79.5% homology with human CG beta-subunit and 
70.4% homology with marmoset monkey CG beta-subunit. The eukaryotic expression
vector pCMV4-rmCGbeta inserted full-coding cDNA sequence of rmCGbeta was
constructed, and the expression of rmCG beta-subunit in HeLa cells transient
expressing system in vitro and BALB/c mice in vivo was determined. The results
demonstrated that the recombinant PCMV4-rmCGbeta eukaryotic expression vector
could express rmCG beta-subunit in vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007233329355 
PMID: 11330831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

