

3180. Mol Cell Biochem. 2001 Feb;218(1-2):157-63.

Identification of beta subunit of the rhesus monkey chorionic gonadotropin
(rmCG).

Chen Y(1), Liu Z, Wang B, Peng JP.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing.

Chorionic gonadotropin (CG) is a placental derived hormone that plays a crucial
role in successful implantation and establishment of early pregnancy in the
primates. The rhesus monkey was chosen as a model to understand the feasibility
of developing human DNA immuno-contraceptive. The coding region of rhesus monkey 
CG beta-subunit (rmCGbeta) was isolated by the TDRT-PCR method. The nucleotide
sequence including the leader peptide was 499 nucleotide long and encoded 166
amino acids. In comparing with the previous known primates CG beta-subunits, the 
rmCGbeta was the highest degree of homology with baboon CG beta-subunit at the
deduced amino acid sequence (94%), 79.5% homology with human CG beta-subunit and 
70.4% homology with marmoset monkey CG beta-subunit. The eukaryotic expression
vector pCMV4-rmCGbeta inserted full-coding cDNA sequence of rmCGbeta was
constructed, and the expression of rmCG beta-subunit in HeLa cells transient
expressing system in vitro and BALB/c mice in vivo was determined. The results
demonstrated that the recombinant PCMV4-rmCGbeta eukaryotic expression vector
could express rmCG beta-subunit in vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007233329355 
PMID: 11330831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3181. Arch Virol. 2001;146(2):197-208.

Adaptation of wild-type measles virus to CD46 receptor usage.

Nielsen L(1), Blixenkrone-MÃ¸ller M, Thylstrup M, Hansen NJ, Bolt G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Panum Institute, University
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Vaccine strains of measles virus (MV) use CD46 as receptor and downregulate CD46 
from the surface of infected cells. MVs isolated and passaged on B-lymphoid cells
(wild-type MVs) seem to use another receptor and do not downregulate CD46. In the
present study, we found that isolation of MV on human or marmoset B-lymphoid
cells did not alter the MV haemagglutinin (H) protein relative to that in the
patient. The wild-type isolates were adapted to the human epithelial HEp-2 cell
line or the monkey fibroblast Vero cell line. All HEp-2 cell adapted viruses and 
1 out of 4 Vero cell adapted viruses acquired the capacity to use CD46 as
receptor, as measured by their ability to infect murine cells expressing human
CD46. Adaptation to CD46 receptor usage was coupled to substitution of amino acid
481 of the MV H protein from asparagine to tyrosine but not to CD46
downregulation. The present study demonstrates that CD46 receptor usage can be
induced by adaptation of wild-type MV to cells that do not express a wild-type
receptor and suggests that a similar mechanism acted on the progenitor viruses of
the present MV vaccine strains during their isolation and attenuation.

DOI: 10.1007/s007050170169 
PMID: 11315632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

