

3181. Arch Virol. 2001;146(2):197-208.

Adaptation of wild-type measles virus to CD46 receptor usage.

Nielsen L(1), Blixenkrone-MÃ¸ller M, Thylstrup M, Hansen NJ, Bolt G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Panum Institute, University
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Vaccine strains of measles virus (MV) use CD46 as receptor and downregulate CD46 
from the surface of infected cells. MVs isolated and passaged on B-lymphoid cells
(wild-type MVs) seem to use another receptor and do not downregulate CD46. In the
present study, we found that isolation of MV on human or marmoset B-lymphoid
cells did not alter the MV haemagglutinin (H) protein relative to that in the
patient. The wild-type isolates were adapted to the human epithelial HEp-2 cell
line or the monkey fibroblast Vero cell line. All HEp-2 cell adapted viruses and 
1 out of 4 Vero cell adapted viruses acquired the capacity to use CD46 as
receptor, as measured by their ability to infect murine cells expressing human
CD46. Adaptation to CD46 receptor usage was coupled to substitution of amino acid
481 of the MV H protein from asparagine to tyrosine but not to CD46
downregulation. The present study demonstrates that CD46 receptor usage can be
induced by adaptation of wild-type MV to cells that do not express a wild-type
receptor and suggests that a similar mechanism acted on the progenitor viruses of
the present MV vaccine strains during their isolation and attenuation.

DOI: 10.1007/s007050170169 
PMID: 11315632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3182. Lab Anim. 2001 Apr;35(2):117-30.

The selection of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) in pharmaceutical
toxicology.

Smith D(1), Trennery P, Farningham D, Klapwijk J.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment UK, AstraZeneca, Macclesfield, Cheshire.

Prior to controlled clinical trials in human volunteers or patients it is
required that novel pharmaceuticals are evaluated for pre-clinical safety in a
rodent and a non-rodent ('second') species. In most cases the rodent species used
has been the rat and the second species has been the dog or macaque (usually
cynomolgus or rhesus) monkey. However, there is an increasing trend within the
United Kingdom (UK) pharmaceutical industry to use the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) for pre-clinical toxicology programmes. This paper examines 
the practicality of using the common marmoset (henceforth referred to as 'the
marmoset') in toxicological testing and reviews metabolic and pharmacodynamic
similarities between this species and humans. It then discusses some of the
advantages and disadvantages of the use of this species when compared with two
other alternatives to the dog and macaque, namely the ferret and minipig. In
particular, the marmoset has clear advantages over the macaque in terms of animal
welfare and practicality. There is regulatory acceptance of this species for
Investigational New Drug (IND), Clinical Trial Exemption (CTX), New Drug
Application (NDA) and Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) registrations.
Whilst the dog is likely to be maintained as the primary non-rodent species in
toxicology, the marmoset has been, and will likely continue to be, adopted as an 
additional non-rodent species in pre-clinical toxicology programmes where
appropriate.

DOI: 10.1258/0023677011911444 
PMID: 11315160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

