

3183. Exp Neurol. 2001 May;169(1):122-34.

Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA normalizes preproenkephalin mRNA
expression in the sensorimotor striatum of primates with unilateral 6-OHDA
lesions.

Pirker W(1), Tedroff J, Pontén H, Gunne L, Andrén PE, Hurd YL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, S-17176, 
Sweden.

The substituted phenylpiperidine (-)-OSU6162 is a novel modulator of the
dopaminergic systems with low affinity for dopamine D(2) receptors and potent
normalizing effects on l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. We studied the effects of
coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA on the regulation of striatal
preproenkephalin (PPE) and prodynorphin (PDyn) mRNA expression in the primate
brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Common marmoset monkeys sustaining
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway received
l-DOPA/carbidopa, l-DOPA/carbidopa plus (-)-OSU6162, or vehicle over 14 days. In 
vehicle-treated animals, PPE mRNA levels were markedly increased in the
sensorimotor territory of the lesioned striatum. By contrast, a rather uniform
lesion-induced reduction of PDyn mRNA levels was found in the vehicle group.
Subchronic l-DOPA treatment induced a further increase in PPE mRNA expression in 
a number of sensorimotor and associative subregions of the denervated striatum.
Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA partially reversed the lesion- and
l-DOPA-induced elevation of PPE expression and, by affecting PPE mRNA expression 
differentially on the intact and lesioned striatum, markedly reduced the
side-to-side difference in PPE mRNA expression. The effects on PPE mRNA
expression were apparent throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the putamen and
the dorsal portions of the caudate nucleus. l-DOPA treatment resulted in an
enhancement in PDyn mRNA expression in all functional compartments of the
striatum. Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 had no apparent influence on these
l-DOPA-induced changes in PDyn mRNA expression. The present results suggest that 
(-)-OSU6162 acts primarily by modifying striatal output via the indirect pathway.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2001.7647 
PMID: 11312565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3184. Chromosoma. 2001 Feb;109(8):515-23.

Can molecular data place each neotropical monkey in its own branch?

Schneider H(1), Canavez FC, Sampaio I, Moreira MA, Tagliaro CH, Seuánez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics, Instituto Nacional de Câncer, Rio de Janeiro, RJ,
Brazil.

Four different DNA datasets, representative of all extant neotropical primate
genera, were tandemly aligned, comprising some 6,763 base pairs (bp) with 2,086
variable characters and 674 informative sites. Maximum Parsimony, Maximum
Likelihood and Neighbor-Joining analyses suggested three monophyletic families
(Atelidae, Pitheciidae and Cebidae) that emerged almost at the same time during
primate radiation. Combined molecular data showed congruent branching inside the 
atelid clade, placing Alouatta as the most basal lineage followed by Ateles and a
more derived branch including Brachyteles and Lagothrix as sister groups. In the 
Pitheciidae, Callicebus was the most basal lineage with respect to Pithecia and
to the more derived sister groups (Cacajao and Chiropotes). Conjoint analysis
strongly supported the monophyly of the Cebidae, grouping Aotus, Cebus and
Saimiri with the small callitrichines. Within callitrichines, Cebuella merged
with Callithrix, Callimico appeared as a sister group of Callithrix/Cebuella,
Leontopitecus as a sister group of the previous clade, and Saguinus was the
earliest callitrichine offshoot. Two major points remained to be clarified in
platyrrhine phylogeny: (i) the exact branching pattern of Aotus, Cebus, Saimiri
and the callitrichines, and (ii), which two of these three families (Atelidae,
Pitheciidae and Cebidae) are more closely related to one another.

DOI: 10.1007/s004120000106 
PMID: 11305784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

