

3189. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2001 Feb;68(2):255-62.

Behavioral effects of buspirone in the marmoset employing a predator
confrontation test of fear and anxiety.

Barros M(1), Mello EL, Huston JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center and Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasília, Brazil, CEP 70910-900, DF, Brasília, Brazil.

In order to further validate the recently developed marmoset (Callithrix
penicillata) predator confrontation model of fear and anxiety, we investigated
the behavioral effects of buspirone with this method. The apparatus consisted of 
three parallel arms connected at each end to a perpendicular arm, forming a
figure-eight continuous maze. A taxidermized wild oncilla cat (Felis tigrina) was
positioned facing a corner of the parallel arms, alternating between the left or 
right side of the maze among animals tested. All subjects were first submitted to
seven 30-min maze habituation trials (HTs) in the absence of the predator, and
then to five randomly assigned treatment trials (TTs) in the presence of the
predator: three buspirone sessions (0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg), saline and sham
injection controls. Twenty minutes after treatment administration, the animal was
released into the maze and had free access to the apparatus for 30 min. All
trials were taped for later behavioral analysis. Buspirone significantly
decreased the frequency of scent marking, while increasing the time spent in
proximity to the 'predator' stimulus, indicating an anxiolytic effect. Neither
locomotor activity, exposure to a novel environment, stimulus location and
habituation, nor gender influenced the effects of the drug treatments. These
results further validate this method and demonstrate the potential usefulness of 
this ethologically based paradigm to test anxiety and fear-induced avoidance in
nonhuman primates and its susceptibility to anxiolytic pharmacological
manipulations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(00)00447-0 
PMID: 11267630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3190. Life Sci. 2001 Feb 23;68(14):1657-65.

Increased ACTH and cortisol secretion after interleukin-alpha injection in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Bernardini R(1), Johnson EO, Kamilaris T, Chiarenza A, Cantarella G, Calogero AE,
Lempereur L, Chrousos GP, Giuffrida R, Gold PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Pharmacology, University of Catania School of
Medicine, Italy. bernardi@mbox.unict.it

We have studied the effect of intravenous injection of interleukin-1 (dose range:
from 0.25 to 4.5 microg/kg of body weight) on plasma ACTH and cortisol levels in 
the marmoset, a primate paradygm of peripheral glucocorticoid resistance. Blood
sampling were collected and body temperature recorded 0, 15, 30, 60, 120, 180,
240 and 300 min after injection. Interleukin-1 stimulated secretion of ACTH in a 
dose-dependent fashion. Maximal secretion occurred 120 min after injection, and
lasted up to 240 min. Plasma ACTH levels returned to baseline 300 min after
interleukin-1 injection. Plasma cortisol levels were related to ACTH levels. Body
temperature elevation, which occurred 10-15 min after injection was
dose-dependent, and lasted 3 h. Results suggest that the pyrogenic effect of
interleukin is associated, in the marmoset, with integrated activation of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. In light of the proneness of marmosets to
hyperimmune disorders, our data are consistent with the hypothesized central
biological role of IL-1, as well as the pathophysiological relevance of the
neuro-endocrine-immune cross-talk during the acute phase response.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(01)00961-4 
PMID: 11263678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

