

3190. Life Sci. 2001 Feb 23;68(14):1657-65.

Increased ACTH and cortisol secretion after interleukin-alpha injection in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Bernardini R(1), Johnson EO, Kamilaris T, Chiarenza A, Cantarella G, Calogero AE,
Lempereur L, Chrousos GP, Giuffrida R, Gold PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Pharmacology, University of Catania School of
Medicine, Italy. bernardi@mbox.unict.it

We have studied the effect of intravenous injection of interleukin-1 (dose range:
from 0.25 to 4.5 microg/kg of body weight) on plasma ACTH and cortisol levels in 
the marmoset, a primate paradygm of peripheral glucocorticoid resistance. Blood
sampling were collected and body temperature recorded 0, 15, 30, 60, 120, 180,
240 and 300 min after injection. Interleukin-1 stimulated secretion of ACTH in a 
dose-dependent fashion. Maximal secretion occurred 120 min after injection, and
lasted up to 240 min. Plasma ACTH levels returned to baseline 300 min after
interleukin-1 injection. Plasma cortisol levels were related to ACTH levels. Body
temperature elevation, which occurred 10-15 min after injection was
dose-dependent, and lasted 3 h. Results suggest that the pyrogenic effect of
interleukin is associated, in the marmoset, with integrated activation of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. In light of the proneness of marmosets to
hyperimmune disorders, our data are consistent with the hypothesized central
biological role of IL-1, as well as the pathophysiological relevance of the
neuro-endocrine-immune cross-talk during the acute phase response.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(01)00961-4 
PMID: 11263678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3191. J Neurochem. 2001 Mar;76(6):1879-86.

Steroidogenic factor-1 expression in marmoset and rat hippocampus:
co-localization with StAR and aromatase.

Wehrenberg U(1), Prange-Kiel J, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, EMA University, Greifswald, Germany.
wehrenbe@mail.uni-greifswald.de

Steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1), an orphan nuclear receptor, was studied with
respect to the expression of steroidogenic enzymes in the hippocampus of rat and 
marmoset, since SF-1 is a regulator of steroid biosynthesis in the gonads. We
used the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) as a marker of the first
step in the cascade of oestrogen synthesis and aromatase as a marker of the last.
StAR transports cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it is
converted by the cytochrome P-450 enzyme complex. This is the rate-limiting step 
in steroid biosynthesis. Aromatase metabolizes testosterone to oestrogen. Using
an anti-SF-1 antibody we show that SF-1 is highly expressed in neuronal cells of 
the pyramidal layer (CA1--CA3) and in the dentate gyrus of rat and marmoset
hippocampi. Binding of the antibody was seen in more than 60% of all cells in the
pyramidal layer and in the fascia dentata. In situ hybridization studies revealed
the same expression pattern for StAR and aromatase. StAR and aromatase-positive
cells were strictly correlated with SF-1 as shown by computer-assisted confocal
microscopy in double labelling experiments (immunohistochemistry and in situ
hybridization). This coexpression may imply SF-1 as a possible regulator of
steroidogenesis in the hippocampus. However, a few interneurones express solely
SF-1 and aromatase but are negative for StAR. Since the expression of StAR
represents the first step in steroidogenesis its expression is suggestive for a
de novo synthesis of steroids. A small population of interneurones must import
precursors for oestrogen synthesis from other sources. Responsive cells, as
evidenced by the presence of oestrogen receptor transcripts, were also found in
the pyramidal layer and dentate gyrus. In conclusion, (1) SF-1 could play a
regulatory role in steroidogenesis in the hippocampus of marmoset and rat and (2)
with respect to the capacity of steroidogenesis two populations of hippocampal
neurones coexist.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1471-4159.2001.00207.x 
PMID: 11259506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

