

3191. J Neurochem. 2001 Mar;76(6):1879-86.

Steroidogenic factor-1 expression in marmoset and rat hippocampus:
co-localization with StAR and aromatase.

Wehrenberg U(1), Prange-Kiel J, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, EMA University, Greifswald, Germany.
wehrenbe@mail.uni-greifswald.de

Steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1), an orphan nuclear receptor, was studied with
respect to the expression of steroidogenic enzymes in the hippocampus of rat and 
marmoset, since SF-1 is a regulator of steroid biosynthesis in the gonads. We
used the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) as a marker of the first
step in the cascade of oestrogen synthesis and aromatase as a marker of the last.
StAR transports cholesterol to the inner mitochondrial membrane where it is
converted by the cytochrome P-450 enzyme complex. This is the rate-limiting step 
in steroid biosynthesis. Aromatase metabolizes testosterone to oestrogen. Using
an anti-SF-1 antibody we show that SF-1 is highly expressed in neuronal cells of 
the pyramidal layer (CA1--CA3) and in the dentate gyrus of rat and marmoset
hippocampi. Binding of the antibody was seen in more than 60% of all cells in the
pyramidal layer and in the fascia dentata. In situ hybridization studies revealed
the same expression pattern for StAR and aromatase. StAR and aromatase-positive
cells were strictly correlated with SF-1 as shown by computer-assisted confocal
microscopy in double labelling experiments (immunohistochemistry and in situ
hybridization). This coexpression may imply SF-1 as a possible regulator of
steroidogenesis in the hippocampus. However, a few interneurones express solely
SF-1 and aromatase but are negative for StAR. Since the expression of StAR
represents the first step in steroidogenesis its expression is suggestive for a
de novo synthesis of steroids. A small population of interneurones must import
precursors for oestrogen synthesis from other sources. Responsive cells, as
evidenced by the presence of oestrogen receptor transcripts, were also found in
the pyramidal layer and dentate gyrus. In conclusion, (1) SF-1 could play a
regulatory role in steroidogenesis in the hippocampus of marmoset and rat and (2)
with respect to the capacity of steroidogenesis two populations of hippocampal
neurones coexist.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1471-4159.2001.00207.x 
PMID: 11259506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3192. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2001 Mar 9;1546(1):143-55.

Assessment of P450 induction in the marmoset monkey using targeted anti-peptide
antibodies.

Schulz TG(1), Thiel R, Neubert D, Brassil PJ, Schulz-Utermoehl T, Boobis AR,
Edwards RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Clinical Pharmacology, Division of Medicine, Imperial College
School of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, UK.

The identity and expression of hepatic P450 enzymes in marmosets was investigated
using a panel of anti-peptide antibodies originally targeted against human P450
enzymes. In immunoblotting, of 12 antibodies examined, 10 bound specifically to
bands in marmoset liver microsomal fraction corresponding to P450 enzymes. It is 
proposed that these represent marmoset CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A, CYP2B, CYP2C forms 
(CYP2C-1 and CYP2C-2), CYP2D19, CYP3A21 and another CYP3A form (CYP3A-m). The
antibodies, together with an anti-marmoset CYP2E1 antibody, were used to
investigate the expression of 10 P450 enzymes in marmosets treated with
P450-inducing chemicals. Treatment with phenobarbitone caused CYP2B, CYP2C-2 and 
CYP3A21 levels to increase, rifampicin caused increases in CYP2B and CYP2C-1 and 
a decrease in CYP3A21 levels, whereas dioxin caused CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 levels to
increase and CYP2E1 levels to decrease. Clofibric acid did not induce any P450.
P450 enzyme activities were assessed using 8 different substrates and increases
were found after treatment with phenobarbitone, rifampicin, and dioxin. However, 
due to species differences in substrate selectivity, it proved difficult to
ascribe these changes to individual P450 enzymes. Thus, the use of anti-peptide
antibodies provides a more informative way of assessing the levels of specific
P450 enzymes than enzyme activity measurements.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4838(01)00134-0 
PMID: 11257517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

