

3192. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2001 Mar 9;1546(1):143-55.

Assessment of P450 induction in the marmoset monkey using targeted anti-peptide
antibodies.

Schulz TG(1), Thiel R, Neubert D, Brassil PJ, Schulz-Utermoehl T, Boobis AR,
Edwards RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Clinical Pharmacology, Division of Medicine, Imperial College
School of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, UK.

The identity and expression of hepatic P450 enzymes in marmosets was investigated
using a panel of anti-peptide antibodies originally targeted against human P450
enzymes. In immunoblotting, of 12 antibodies examined, 10 bound specifically to
bands in marmoset liver microsomal fraction corresponding to P450 enzymes. It is 
proposed that these represent marmoset CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A, CYP2B, CYP2C forms 
(CYP2C-1 and CYP2C-2), CYP2D19, CYP3A21 and another CYP3A form (CYP3A-m). The
antibodies, together with an anti-marmoset CYP2E1 antibody, were used to
investigate the expression of 10 P450 enzymes in marmosets treated with
P450-inducing chemicals. Treatment with phenobarbitone caused CYP2B, CYP2C-2 and 
CYP3A21 levels to increase, rifampicin caused increases in CYP2B and CYP2C-1 and 
a decrease in CYP3A21 levels, whereas dioxin caused CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 levels to
increase and CYP2E1 levels to decrease. Clofibric acid did not induce any P450.
P450 enzyme activities were assessed using 8 different substrates and increases
were found after treatment with phenobarbitone, rifampicin, and dioxin. However, 
due to species differences in substrate selectivity, it proved difficult to
ascribe these changes to individual P450 enzymes. Thus, the use of anti-peptide
antibodies provides a more informative way of assessing the levels of specific
P450 enzymes than enzyme activity measurements.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4838(01)00134-0 
PMID: 11257517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3193. Br Med Bull. 2000;56(3):787-97.

Angiogenesis and its control in the female reproductive system.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK.

The rapid, controlled and cyclical nature of angiogenesis in the female
reproductive tract suggests that interference with this process should provide a 
novel approach to manipulation of reproductive function. Many factors involved in
the regulation of angiogenesis have been identified, and the possibility of
stimulating or inhibiting these paracrine control mechanisms is being addressed
using current advances in the development of angiogenic and anti-angiogenic
compounds. Studies with animal models indicate that the normal processes of
folliculogenesis, ovulation and corpus luteum function in the ovary, and the
control of menstruation and implantation in the endometrium could be profoundly
influenced by manipulation of angiogenesis. Novel therapeutic agents targeted to 
the angiogenic pathway may also have a wide range of applications in pathological
processes in the reproductive tract such as cancer, endometriosis, fibroid
growth, and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.

DOI: 10.1258/0007142001903364 
PMID: 11255562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

