

3193. Br Med Bull. 2000;56(3):787-97.

Angiogenesis and its control in the female reproductive system.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK.

The rapid, controlled and cyclical nature of angiogenesis in the female
reproductive tract suggests that interference with this process should provide a 
novel approach to manipulation of reproductive function. Many factors involved in
the regulation of angiogenesis have been identified, and the possibility of
stimulating or inhibiting these paracrine control mechanisms is being addressed
using current advances in the development of angiogenic and anti-angiogenic
compounds. Studies with animal models indicate that the normal processes of
folliculogenesis, ovulation and corpus luteum function in the ovary, and the
control of menstruation and implantation in the endometrium could be profoundly
influenced by manipulation of angiogenesis. Novel therapeutic agents targeted to 
the angiogenic pathway may also have a wide range of applications in pathological
processes in the reproductive tract such as cancer, endometriosis, fibroid
growth, and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome.

DOI: 10.1258/0007142001903364 
PMID: 11255562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3194. Brain Behav Evol. 2000 Nov;56(5):276-86.

Conservation of absolute foveal area in New World monkeys. A constraint on eye
size and conformation.

Franco EC(1), Finlay BL, Silveira LC, Yamada ES, Crowley JC.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal do Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil.

The foveal specializations of five New World monkeys, the marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus; the golden-handed tamarin, Saguinus midas niger; the squirrel monkey,
Saimiri ustius; the capuchin monkey, Cebus apella; and the howler monkey,
Alouatta caraya were compared. Although retinal area varies by over a factor of
two in these monkeys, the area of the fovea does not covary with retinal area and
remains approximately the same absolute size, as measured by the dimensions of
the high density region of cones, or the rod-free region. This constancy in
foveal size also holds for rhesus monkeys and humans, bringing the variation in
retinal area to a factor of five. Alouatta caraya is unusual, distinguished by a 
very high central cone density and a small rod-free zone. Physiological
constraints that might limit foveal area over a wide range of eye sizes are
considered.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000047211 
PMID: 11251320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

