

3194. Brain Behav Evol. 2000 Nov;56(5):276-86.

Conservation of absolute foveal area in New World monkeys. A constraint on eye
size and conformation.

Franco EC(1), Finlay BL, Silveira LC, Yamada ES, Crowley JC.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal do Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil.

The foveal specializations of five New World monkeys, the marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus; the golden-handed tamarin, Saguinus midas niger; the squirrel monkey,
Saimiri ustius; the capuchin monkey, Cebus apella; and the howler monkey,
Alouatta caraya were compared. Although retinal area varies by over a factor of
two in these monkeys, the area of the fovea does not covary with retinal area and
remains approximately the same absolute size, as measured by the dimensions of
the high density region of cones, or the rod-free region. This constancy in
foveal size also holds for rhesus monkeys and humans, bringing the variation in
retinal area to a factor of five. Alouatta caraya is unusual, distinguished by a 
very high central cone density and a small rod-free zone. Physiological
constraints that might limit foveal area over a wide range of eye sizes are
considered.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000047211 
PMID: 11251320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3195. Horm Behav. 2001 Mar;39(2):106-12.

Bromocriptine administration lowers serum prolactin and disrupts parental
responsiveness in common marmosets (Callithrix j. jacchus).

Roberts RL(1), Jenkins KT, Lawler T Jr, Wegner FH, Newman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Unit on Developmental Neuroethology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin 53715, USA. LR123G@NIH.GOV

The influence of prolactin on parental responsiveness was investigated in eight
unpaired, parentally inexperienced common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; 6
female, 2 male). The marmosets were prescreened with infants (1-10 days of age)
and required to exhibit short latency retrieval and infant carrying in at least
three consecutive pretests as criterion for inclusion in this study. The
marmosets were then administered the dopamine agonist bromocriptine (0.5 mg/0.5ml
vehicle subcutaneously) and the vehicle alone (0.5 ml 10% ethanol solution) twice
daily for 3 consecutive days in random order. Bromocriptine treatment reduced
circulating prolactin to nondetectable levels. Bromocriptine treatment eliminated
infant retrieval in four of the eight marmosets and was associated with
significantly increased retrieval latencies and significantly reduced carrying
durations in the four monkeys that continued to retrieve following bromocriptine 
treatment. When given the vehicle alone, the marmosets retrieved infants
significantly faster than during pretests, suggesting a handling effect of the
injection series. Bromocriptine treatments were associated with significantly
increased movement during the tests. The results of this study indicate that
prolactin and/or its regulatory neurotransmitters are involved in the control of 
the spontaneous display of parental responsiveness in common marmosets.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.2000.1639 
PMID: 11243738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

