

3199. J Exp Med. 2001 Mar 5;193(5):637-42.

Independence of herpesvirus-induced T cell lymphoma from viral cyclin D
homologue.

Ensser A(1), Glykofrydes D, Niphuis H, Kuhn EM, Rosenwirth B, Heeney JL,
Niedobitek G, M체ller-Fleckenstein I, Fleckenstein B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut f체r Klinische und Molekulare Virologie der Universit채t
Erlangen-N체rnberg, Schlossgarten 4, 91054 Erlangen, Germany.
ensser@viro.med.uni-erlangen.de

Cyclin D family members are cellular protooncogenes, and their viral homologues
in the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV, human herpesvirus type 8
[HHV-8]) and the closely related Herpesvirus saimiri have been implicated as
putative cofactors of viral transformation and pathogenesis. KSHV is regularly
found in Kaposi's sarcoma and in the primary effusion B cell lymphoma and
Castleman's disease associated with immunosuppression and AIDS. H. saimiri strain
C488 transforms human and marmoset T cells in vitro and causes polyclonal T cell 
lymphoma in New World monkeys. The viral cyclins stimulate cell cycle progression
of quiescent fibroblasts, and they form active cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)6
complexes of broad substrate specificity that can resist and downregulate
cellular CDK inhibitors. This study shows that the viral cyclin of H. saimiri
strain C488 is not required for viral replication, T cell transformation, and
pathogenicity in New World primates.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.193.5.637 
PMCID: PMC2193399
PMID: 11238594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3200. J Neurol Sci. 2001 Feb 15;184(1):41-9.

Demyelination and axonal damage in a non-human primate model of multiple
sclerosis.

Mancardi G(1), Hart B, Roccatagliata L, Brok H, Giunti D, Bontrop R, Massacesi L,
Capello E, Uccelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences and Vision, University of Genoa, Via De
Toni 5, 16132 Genoa, Italy. neurolab@cisi.unige.it

The demyelinating plaque is the paradigmatic lesion of multiple sclerosis (MS),
but only recently attention has been given to axonal damage and to its role in
the pathophysiology of disease. Albeit the possible relevance of axonal loss in
MS and its experimental models, the amount and timing of axonal sufferance has
been addressed only in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) of
rodents. In this report we observed that, in the marmoset model of EAE, axonal
damage occurs early during the demyelinating process as assessed by
immunoreactivity for amyloid precursor protein (APP) and non-phosphorylated
neurofilaments (SMI-32 positive) detected mostly in early active lesions compared
to late active and normal appearing white matter. The rare occurrence of
morphological features of axonal transection, such as APP or SMI-32 positive
spheroids and swellings, as well as an increase of neurofilament density in the
demyelinated axons without accumulation of electron dense organelles or
osmiophilic bodies, at electron microscopy, suggests that early axonal damage may
be, at least in part, a reversible process. These findings are of relevance for
the development of therapies, which can protect axons and enhance their function 
and survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(00)00490-1 
PMID: 11231031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

