

3206. Hum Immunol. 2001 Feb;62(2):125-32.

Quantitation of HLA-A*0201 bound tumor associated antigens on a peptide pulsed B 
cell line.

Wataya H(1), Kamikawaji N, Nakanishi Y, Takayama K, Hara N, Sasazuki T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, CREST (Core Research for Evolutional Science and
Technology), Kyushu University, 812-8582, Fukuoka, Japan.

CTLs recognize 8- to 10-mer peptides on MHC class I molecules. Recent studies
have shown that human CTLs kill autologous tumor cells in an HLA-restricted and
peptide-specific manner, and that artificial pep- tides can stimulate
tumor-specific CTLs both in vitro and in vivo. Accordingly, several human
clinical trials using such peptides are ongoing worldwide. In such methods, the
amount of peptide-MHC complexes that remain on the cell surface of APCs after
peptide administration is crucial, because CTL activation depends on the number
of ligated TCRs and co-stimulation. However, it remains uncertain how many
peptide-MHC complexes are reconstituted and remain on live cells after peptide
administration. We herein examined the binding affinities of five HLA-A*0201
restricted peptides-four TAAs and one HIV antigen-to HLA-A*0201 molecules and
their decay rates on a live B cell line using tandem mass spectrometry. Our
experiments showed that nearly 10(5) peptide-MHC complexes per cell could be
reconstituted on a cell surface by pulsing a high dose of peptide even if the
binding affinities were intermediate or low. However, the decay rates observed
for these pep- tide-MHC complexes on a B cell line were faster than previously
estimated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0198-8859(00)00251-2 
PMID: 11182221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3207. Eur J Immunol. 2001 Feb;31(2):474-9.

Characterization of the response to myelin basic protein in a non human primate
model for multiple sclerosis.

Uccelli A(1), Giunti D, Mancardi G, Caroli F, Fiorone M, Seri M, Hauser SL,
Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences and Vision, Gaslini Institute, University 
of Genoa, Italy. auccelli@neurologia.unige.it

The common marmoset Callithrix jacchus (C. jacchus) is an outbred species
characterized by a naturally occurring bone marrow chimerism and susceptibility
to a form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) resembling multiple 
sclerosis (MS). T cell clones specific for the myelin antigen, myelin basic
protein (MBP), can be derived from both naive and immunized marmosets and can
adoptively transfer EAE to compatible chimeric siblings. Here, we demonstrate
that several different antigenic determinants of MBP are recognized by these
encephalitogenic T cell clones. Furthermore, PCR-based analysis of TCR Vbeta
families does not show the preferential usage of any gene segment.
Characterization of third complementarity determining regions (CDR3) fails to
demonstrate a recurring motif characteristic of the T cell immune response to MBP
in this species. Nevertheless, brief amino acid motifs are shared among marmoset 
clones and CDR3 sequences from MS samples. These data suggest that, due to its
outbred condition, the C. jacchus marmoset mounts a diverse pathogenic response
to MBP. However, the findings that certain CDR3 sequences are identically
expressed in different animals, or by different T cell clones, suggest that
MBP-specific T cell populations may be clonally expanded following chronic
antigenic stimulation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(200102)31:2&#60;474::aid-immu474&#62;3.0.co;2-9 
PMID: 11180112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

