

3207. Eur J Immunol. 2001 Feb;31(2):474-9.

Characterization of the response to myelin basic protein in a non human primate
model for multiple sclerosis.

Uccelli A(1), Giunti D, Mancardi G, Caroli F, Fiorone M, Seri M, Hauser SL,
Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences and Vision, Gaslini Institute, University 
of Genoa, Italy. auccelli@neurologia.unige.it

The common marmoset Callithrix jacchus (C. jacchus) is an outbred species
characterized by a naturally occurring bone marrow chimerism and susceptibility
to a form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) resembling multiple 
sclerosis (MS). T cell clones specific for the myelin antigen, myelin basic
protein (MBP), can be derived from both naive and immunized marmosets and can
adoptively transfer EAE to compatible chimeric siblings. Here, we demonstrate
that several different antigenic determinants of MBP are recognized by these
encephalitogenic T cell clones. Furthermore, PCR-based analysis of TCR Vbeta
families does not show the preferential usage of any gene segment.
Characterization of third complementarity determining regions (CDR3) fails to
demonstrate a recurring motif characteristic of the T cell immune response to MBP
in this species. Nevertheless, brief amino acid motifs are shared among marmoset 
clones and CDR3 sequences from MS samples. These data suggest that, due to its
outbred condition, the C. jacchus marmoset mounts a diverse pathogenic response
to MBP. However, the findings that certain CDR3 sequences are identically
expressed in different animals, or by different T cell clones, suggest that
MBP-specific T cell populations may be clonally expanded following chronic
antigenic stimulation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(200102)31:2&#60;474::aid-immu474&#62;3.0.co;2-9 
PMID: 11180112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3208. J Med Primatol. 2000 Oct;29(5):343-9.

Cross-reactivity of antibodies on thymic epithelial cells from humans and
marmosets by flow-cytometry.

Riecke K(1), Nogueira AC, Alexi-Meskishvili V, Stahlmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Department of Toxicology,
Benjamin Franklin Medical Centre, Freie Universit√§t Berlin.
riecke@medizin.fu-berlin.de

Callithrix jacchus, the common marmoset, is particularly suitable for
immunological studies in vivo and in vitro since many antibodies directed against
epitopes of human cells do also react with their analogues from this non-human
primate. We studied the reactivity of antibodies against human epitopes on
primary cultures of thymic epithelial cells from marmosets and humans by
flow-cytometry after different culture periods. The antibodies against integrins,
including CD61, reacted with thymic epithelial cells from both humans and
marmosets, as did anti-CD44 and anti-CD106. Antibodies specific for thymic
epithelial cells (TE-3, TE-4, TE-8, TE-15, TE-16, TE-19) also bound to cells from
marmosets but expression of all epitopes was not observed in all cultures
studied. The expression of CD51, CD54, CD58 and CD106 on human cells declined
after 4 weeks of culture. Our findings indicate that marmosets are a valuable
model for immunological studies of effects of xenobiotics on the thymic
epithelium.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2000.290506.x 
PMID: 11168825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

