

3208. J Med Primatol. 2000 Oct;29(5):343-9.

Cross-reactivity of antibodies on thymic epithelial cells from humans and
marmosets by flow-cytometry.

Riecke K(1), Nogueira AC, Alexi-Meskishvili V, Stahlmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Department of Toxicology,
Benjamin Franklin Medical Centre, Freie Universit√§t Berlin.
riecke@medizin.fu-berlin.de

Callithrix jacchus, the common marmoset, is particularly suitable for
immunological studies in vivo and in vitro since many antibodies directed against
epitopes of human cells do also react with their analogues from this non-human
primate. We studied the reactivity of antibodies against human epitopes on
primary cultures of thymic epithelial cells from marmosets and humans by
flow-cytometry after different culture periods. The antibodies against integrins,
including CD61, reacted with thymic epithelial cells from both humans and
marmosets, as did anti-CD44 and anti-CD106. Antibodies specific for thymic
epithelial cells (TE-3, TE-4, TE-8, TE-15, TE-16, TE-19) also bound to cells from
marmosets but expression of all epitopes was not observed in all cultures
studied. The expression of CD51, CD54, CD58 and CD106 on human cells declined
after 4 weeks of culture. Our findings indicate that marmosets are a valuable
model for immunological studies of effects of xenobiotics on the thymic
epithelium.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2000.290506.x 
PMID: 11168825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3209. Eur J Neurosci. 2001 Feb;13(3):597-608.

GDNF reverses priming for dyskinesia in MPTP-treated, L-DOPA-primed common
marmosets.

Iravani MM(1), Costa S, Jackson MJ, Tel BC, Cannizzaro C, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School
of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with a progressive loss of dopamine
neurons in the substantia nigra and degeneration of dopaminergic terminals in the
striatum. Although L-DOPA treatment provides the most effective symptomatic
relief for PD it does not prevent the progression of the disease, and its
long-term use is associated with the onset of dyskinesia. In rodent and primate
studies, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) may prevent 6-OHDA-
or MPTP-induced nigral degeneration and so may be beneficial in the treatment of 
PD. In this study, we investigate the effects of GDNF on the expression of
dyskinesia in L-DOPA-primed MPTP-treated common marmosets, exhibiting dyskinesia.
GDNF or saline was administered by two intraventricular injections, 4 weeks
apart, to MPTP-treated, L-DOPA-treated common marmosets primed to exhibit
dyskinesia. Prior to GDNF or saline administration, all animals displayed marked 
dyskinesia when treated with L-DOPA. GDNF administration produced a significant
improvement in motor disability and, following the second injection of GDNF, a
significant improvement in the locomotor activity was observed. Following the
administration of L-DOPA there was a greater reversal of disability and a
reduction in the intensity of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in GDNF-treated animals
compared to saline-treated controls. However, there was no significant difference
in L-DOPA's ability to increase locomotor activity between GDNF-treated and
saline-treated animals. GDNF treatment caused a significant increase in the
number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra, but no
change in [(3)H]mazindol binding to dopamine terminals was found in the striatum 
of GDNF-treated animals compared to saline-treated controls. In GDNF-treated
animals a small but significant reduction in enkephalin mRNA was observed in the 
caudate nucleus but not in the putamen or the nucleus accumbens. Substance P mRNA
expression was equally reduced in the caudate nucleus and the putamen of the
GDNF-treated animals but not in the nucleus accumbens. Intraventricular
administration of GDNF improved MPTP-induced disability and reversed dopamine
cell loss in the substantia nigra. GDNF also diminished L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia, which may relate to its ability to partly restore nigral dopaminergic
transmission or to modify the activity of striatal output pathways.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.2001.01408.x 
PMID: 11168568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

