

321. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2020 Jul;127(7):1013-1021. doi:
10.1007/s00702-020-02196-w. Epub 2020 Apr 24.

The mGlu2/3 antagonist LY-341,495 reverses the anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic
effects of the mGlu2 activators LY-487,379 and LY-354,740 in the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset.

Nuara SG(1), Hamadjida A(2)(3), Gourdon JC(1), Huot P(4)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(3)École Normale supérieure de Bertoua, Université de Ngaoundéré, Ngaoundéré,
Cameroon.
(4)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

We have recently shown that activation of metabotropic glutamate 2 (mGlu2)
receptors through positive allosteric modulation and orthosteric stimulation is a
novel approach to reduce L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia
and dopaminergic psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD). We have obtained these
benefits with the mGlu2-positive allosteric modulator (PAM) LY-487,379 and the
mGlu2/3 orthosteric agonist (OA) LY-354,740 in experiments conducted in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset. Here, we
sought to pharmacologically characterise the anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic
effects of LY-487,379 and LY-354,740, by assessing whether their benefits would
be reversed by the mGlu2/3 orthosteric antagonist LY-341,495. Six MPTP-lesioned
marmosets exhibiting stable dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs)
entered the experiments. In the first series of experiments, animals were
injected L-DOPA in combination with either vehicle, LY-487,379 (10 mg/kg),
LY-341,495 (1 mg/kg) or LY-487,379/LY-341,495. In the second series of
experiments, marmosets were injected L-DOPA in combination with either vehicle,
LY-354,740 (1 mg/kg), LY-341,495 (1 mg/kg) or LY-354,740/LY-341495. As we
previously demonstrated, both LY-487,379 and LY-354,740 alleviated dyskinesia (by
44% and 47%, both P < 0.001) and PLBs (by 44% and 39%, P < 0.01 and P < 0.001)
when compared to vehicle treatment. When LY-487,379 and LY-354,740 were
administered concurrently with LY-341,495, the anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic
benefits were abolished. When administered with L-DOPA in the absence of
LY-487,379 and LY-354,740, LY-341,495 did not worsen dyskinesia or PLBs and did
not hamper L-DOPA anti-parkinsonian action. Our results indicate that the
anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic effects of mGlu2-positive allosteric
modulation and mGlu2/3 orthosteric stimulation are reversed by mGlu2/3
orthosteric blockade.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-020-02196-w 
PMID: 32333122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. FEBS J. 2021 Jan;288(1):325-353. doi: 10.1111/febs.15341. Epub 2020 May 15.

The common marmoset as suitable nonhuman alternative for the analysis of primate 
cochlear development.

Hosoya M(1), Fujioka M(1), Murayama AY(2)(3), Okano H(2)(3), Ogawa K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Center for Brain Science, RIKEN, 
Wako, Japan.

Cochlear development is a complex process with precise spatiotemporal patterns. A
detailed understanding of this process is important for studies of congenital
hearing loss and regenerative medicine. However, much of our understanding of
cochlear development is based on rodent models. Animal models that bridge the gap
between humans and rodents are needed. In this study, we investigated the
development of hearing organs in a small New World monkey species, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We describe the general stages of cochlear
development in comparison with those of humans and mice. Moreover, we examined
more than 25 proteins involved in cochlear development and found that expression 
patterns were generally conserved between rodents and primates. However, several 
proteins involved in supporting cell processes and neuronal development exhibited
interspecific expression differences. Human fetal samples for studies of
primate-specific cochlear development are extremely rare, especially for late
developmental stages. Our results support the use of the common marmoset as an
effective alternative for analyses of primate cochlear development.

© 2020 The Authors. The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf
of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.15341 
PMCID: PMC7818239
PMID: 32323465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

