

3210. Eur J Pharmacol. 2001 Jan 19;412(1):45-50.

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor concentration dependently improves
disability and motor activity in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Costa S(1), Iravani MM, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Hodgkin Building, GKT School of
Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, Guy's Campus, SE1 1UL, London, UK.

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has previously reduced motor
deficits and preserved nigral dopamine neurones in rhesus monkeys with a
unilateral MPTP-induced lesion of substantia nigra. We now report on the ability 
of GDNF to reverse motor deficits induced by parenteral administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to common marmosets resulting
in bilateral degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway. Prior to GDNF
administration, all MPTP-treated animals showed akinesia or bradykinesia,
rigidity, postural instability and tremor. Intraventricular injection of GDNF
(10, 100 or 500 microg) at 9 and 13 weeks post MPTP treatment resulted in a
concentration dependent improvement in locomotor activity and motor disability
which became significant after administration of 100 and 500 microg of GDNF. The 
most prominent improvements were in alertness, checking movements, and posture.
It is concluded that intraventricular GDNF administration improves bilateral
Parkinsonian motor disability following MPTP treatment and this may reflect an
action of GDNF on remaining nigral dopaminergic neurones.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(00)00933-x 
PMID: 11166735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3211. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2001 Jan 22;171(1-2):187-92.

Expression of the estradiol-synthesizing 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases
type 1 and type 7 in the nonhuman primate Callithrix jacchus.

Schwabe I(1), Husen B, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4,
37077, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) was used as a primate model for
the study of the expression of the estradiol synthesizing enzymes
17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 and type 7 (17HSD1 and 17HSD7). The
tissue-specific expression of 17HSD1 and 17HSD7 mRNA in Callithrix jacchus and
human as shown by Northern Blot analysis revealed strong similarities between the
two species. After cloning of the marmoset-specific coding cDNA sequence of
17HSD7 a similarity of 95% to the known human sequences was found. To elucidate
the physiological function of 17HSD7 which is thought to be different to that of 
the well-known 17HSD1, the regulation of 17HSD7 expression in the corpus luteum
was investigated. It was shown to be upregulated during the luteal phase of the
reproductive cycle and during early pregnancy, when the primate corpus luteum is 
most active in estradiol synthesis, whereas 17HSD1 was not detectable in this
tissue at any time.

DOI: 10.1016/s0303-7207(00)00431-7 
PMID: 11165028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

