

3211. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2001 Jan 22;171(1-2):187-92.

Expression of the estradiol-synthesizing 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases
type 1 and type 7 in the nonhuman primate Callithrix jacchus.

Schwabe I(1), Husen B, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4,
37077, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) was used as a primate model for
the study of the expression of the estradiol synthesizing enzymes
17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 and type 7 (17HSD1 and 17HSD7). The
tissue-specific expression of 17HSD1 and 17HSD7 mRNA in Callithrix jacchus and
human as shown by Northern Blot analysis revealed strong similarities between the
two species. After cloning of the marmoset-specific coding cDNA sequence of
17HSD7 a similarity of 95% to the known human sequences was found. To elucidate
the physiological function of 17HSD7 which is thought to be different to that of 
the well-known 17HSD1, the regulation of 17HSD7 expression in the corpus luteum
was investigated. It was shown to be upregulated during the luteal phase of the
reproductive cycle and during early pregnancy, when the primate corpus luteum is 
most active in estradiol synthesis, whereas 17HSD1 was not detectable in this
tissue at any time.

DOI: 10.1016/s0303-7207(00)00431-7 
PMID: 11165028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3212. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2001 Jan 22;171(1-2):179-85.

Mechanisms of estradiol inactivation in primate endometrium.

Husen B(1), Adamski J, Rune GM, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4,
D-37077, Goettingen, Germany. bhusen@www.dpz.gwdg.de

In uterine endometrium, the level of estradiol is controlled by oxidative
17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17HSD) activity which converts the bioactive
hormone to the less active compound estrone. At least three different types of
17HSD (types 2, 4 and 8) use estradiol as their preferred substrate and may
contribute to the overall rate of estradiol-inactivation in the uterus. In this
study the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) was used for the investigation of 
the particular contribution of each type of 17HSD. Northern Blots revealed
essentially the same tissue distribution as in the human. Likewise, uterine 17HSD
enzyme activity increases in the secretory phase of the reproductive cycle, in
parallel to the rise in circulating progesterone levels. Northern analysis of
uteri from defined time points of the reproductive cycle showed that only the
level of 17HSD2 expression is strongly upregulated in the secretory phase,
whereas 17HSD4 and 17HSD8 seem to be expressed constitutively.

DOI: 10.1016/s0303-7207(00)00421-4 
PMID: 11165027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

