

3212. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2001 Jan 22;171(1-2):179-85.

Mechanisms of estradiol inactivation in primate endometrium.

Husen B(1), Adamski J, Rune GM, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4,
D-37077, Goettingen, Germany. bhusen@www.dpz.gwdg.de

In uterine endometrium, the level of estradiol is controlled by oxidative
17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17HSD) activity which converts the bioactive
hormone to the less active compound estrone. At least three different types of
17HSD (types 2, 4 and 8) use estradiol as their preferred substrate and may
contribute to the overall rate of estradiol-inactivation in the uterus. In this
study the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) was used for the investigation of 
the particular contribution of each type of 17HSD. Northern Blots revealed
essentially the same tissue distribution as in the human. Likewise, uterine 17HSD
enzyme activity increases in the secretory phase of the reproductive cycle, in
parallel to the rise in circulating progesterone levels. Northern analysis of
uteri from defined time points of the reproductive cycle showed that only the
level of 17HSD2 expression is strongly upregulated in the secretory phase,
whereas 17HSD4 and 17HSD8 seem to be expressed constitutively.

DOI: 10.1016/s0303-7207(00)00421-4 
PMID: 11165027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3213. Regul Pept. 2001 Mar 2;97(2-3):139-46.

Bioactivity of recombinant prorelaxin from the marmoset monkey.

Zarreh-Hoshyari-Khah R(1), Bartsch O, Einspanier A, Pohnke Y, Ivell R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg, Grandweg 
64, 22529 Hamburg, Germany.

The hormone relaxin (RLX) is generally present in the serum of humans and
primates as a heterodimer, though some unprocessed prohormone may also be
present. In order to test whether this proRLX is biologically relevant for human 
or primate physiology, recombinant marmoset monkey proRLX was synthesized in a
baculovirus-infected cell system and tested in different bioassays. Marmoset
proRLX is >70% identical to human H2 proRLX, especially in the so-called
receptor-binding region of the B-peptide. The bioassay systems used were (a) cAMP
production by human endometrial stromal cells and (b) cAMP production by the
human monocyte cell line THP-1. In both bioassay systems recombinant proRLX
showed comparable EC(50) values to pure porcine heterodimeric relaxin (porcine
relaxin, 1.5-2.0 nM; marmoset prorelaxin 4.0-5.0 nM). Additionally, recombinant
marmoset prorelaxin was shown to stimulate steroidogenesis in primary cultures of
marmoset ovarian theca cells, though with a lower apparent activity than porcine 
relaxin. It thus appears that precursor processing of human or primate relaxin is
not an essential prerequisite for the acquisition of bioactivity, as it is for
the closely related hormone insulin, and that circulating prorelaxin is
physiologically relevant.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-0115(00)00205-6 
PMID: 11164949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

