

3213. Regul Pept. 2001 Mar 2;97(2-3):139-46.

Bioactivity of recombinant prorelaxin from the marmoset monkey.

Zarreh-Hoshyari-Khah R(1), Bartsch O, Einspanier A, Pohnke Y, Ivell R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg, Grandweg 
64, 22529 Hamburg, Germany.

The hormone relaxin (RLX) is generally present in the serum of humans and
primates as a heterodimer, though some unprocessed prohormone may also be
present. In order to test whether this proRLX is biologically relevant for human 
or primate physiology, recombinant marmoset monkey proRLX was synthesized in a
baculovirus-infected cell system and tested in different bioassays. Marmoset
proRLX is >70% identical to human H2 proRLX, especially in the so-called
receptor-binding region of the B-peptide. The bioassay systems used were (a) cAMP
production by human endometrial stromal cells and (b) cAMP production by the
human monocyte cell line THP-1. In both bioassay systems recombinant proRLX
showed comparable EC(50) values to pure porcine heterodimeric relaxin (porcine
relaxin, 1.5-2.0 nM; marmoset prorelaxin 4.0-5.0 nM). Additionally, recombinant
marmoset prorelaxin was shown to stimulate steroidogenesis in primary cultures of
marmoset ovarian theca cells, though with a lower apparent activity than porcine 
relaxin. It thus appears that precursor processing of human or primate relaxin is
not an essential prerequisite for the acquisition of bioactivity, as it is for
the closely related hormone insulin, and that circulating prorelaxin is
physiologically relevant.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-0115(00)00205-6 
PMID: 11164949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3214. Vision Res. 2001 Feb;41(3):267-73.

Compensatory changes in eye growth and refraction induced by daily wear of soft
contact lenses in young marmosets.

Whatham AR(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PT, UK.

Several studies have shown that growth of the primate eye responds in a
compensatory direction to both positive and negative spectacle lenses--eyes grow 
more slowly and become hyperopic in response to positive lenses, and eyes grow
more rapidly and become myopic in response to negative lenses. On the other hand,
extended wear soft contact lenses, whether positively or negatively powered,
induce hyperopia (Hung & Smith, 1996. Extended-wear, soft, contact lenses produce
hyperopia in young monkeys. Optometry & Vision Science 73, 579-584.). We
investigated whether responses in a compensatory direction occurred to soft
contact lenses worn on a daily wear basis (8 h per day on an 8:16 h light:dark
cycle). Ten infant marmosets (8-13 weeks of age) wore a soft contact lens, in one
eye only, for 5-9 weeks. Lens powers used were zero (n = 2), +2 D (n = 1), +2 D
followed after 5 weeks of lens wear by +4 D (n = 1) for 4 weeks, +4 D (n = 2), -2
D followed after 5 weeks of lens wear by -4 D (n = 2) for 4 weeks, -4 D (n = 2). 
At the end of the lens-wear period the positive lens-wearing eyes were more
hyperopic relative to the fellow untreated eyes [mean +2.39 +/- 0.24 D (SE)] and 
the negative lens-wearing eyes were more myopic than the fellow untreated eyes
[mean -2.48 +/- 0.91 D (SE)]. Fellow eyes were unaffected by lens wear [mean
final refraction +0.45 +/- 0.09 D (SE)]. Plano lenses did not affect eye growth
in either marmoset fitted with plano contact lenses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(00)00250-9 
PMID: 11164443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

