

3214. Vision Res. 2001 Feb;41(3):267-73.

Compensatory changes in eye growth and refraction induced by daily wear of soft
contact lenses in young marmosets.

Whatham AR(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PT, UK.

Several studies have shown that growth of the primate eye responds in a
compensatory direction to both positive and negative spectacle lenses--eyes grow 
more slowly and become hyperopic in response to positive lenses, and eyes grow
more rapidly and become myopic in response to negative lenses. On the other hand,
extended wear soft contact lenses, whether positively or negatively powered,
induce hyperopia (Hung & Smith, 1996. Extended-wear, soft, contact lenses produce
hyperopia in young monkeys. Optometry & Vision Science 73, 579-584.). We
investigated whether responses in a compensatory direction occurred to soft
contact lenses worn on a daily wear basis (8 h per day on an 8:16 h light:dark
cycle). Ten infant marmosets (8-13 weeks of age) wore a soft contact lens, in one
eye only, for 5-9 weeks. Lens powers used were zero (n = 2), +2 D (n = 1), +2 D
followed after 5 weeks of lens wear by +4 D (n = 1) for 4 weeks, +4 D (n = 2), -2
D followed after 5 weeks of lens wear by -4 D (n = 2) for 4 weeks, -4 D (n = 2). 
At the end of the lens-wear period the positive lens-wearing eyes were more
hyperopic relative to the fellow untreated eyes [mean +2.39 +/- 0.24 D (SE)] and 
the negative lens-wearing eyes were more myopic than the fellow untreated eyes
[mean -2.48 +/- 0.91 D (SE)]. Fellow eyes were unaffected by lens wear [mean
final refraction +0.45 +/- 0.09 D (SE)]. Plano lenses did not affect eye growth
in either marmoset fitted with plano contact lenses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(00)00250-9 
PMID: 11164443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3215. Vision Res. 2001 Feb;41(3):257-65.

Overnight lens removal avoids changes in refraction and eye growth produced by
plano soft contact lenses in infant marmosets.

Whatham AR(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PT, UK.

Infant marmosets were fitted with zero-powered (plano) soft contact lenses from 4
to 8 weeks of age worn either continuously (24 h per day) (n = 4), for 12 h (n = 
4), or for 8 h (n = 3) per day to determine whether limiting the daily duration
of lens-wear could significantly reduce or eliminate the effects of continuous
lens-wear on ocular growth and refractive state. As in macaques (Hung, L. F., &
Smith, E. L. (1996). Extended-wear, soft, contact lenses produce hyperopia in
young monkeys. Optometry and Vision Science, 73, 579-584), eyes fitted with
contact lenses worn continuously developed more hyperopic refractions (mean +3.22
+/- 1.49 D SE) compared to their fellow untreated eyes, inconsistent changes in
vitreous chamber depth (-0.02 +/- 0.09 mm SE) and flatter corneas (mean decrease 
in corneal power 4.22 +/- 0.39 D SE). Eyes wearing lenses for only 12 h per day
showed similar but reduced effects compared to the 24-h group. Most importantly, 
ocular growth, corneal power and refraction were unaffected in the 8-h group.
Future studies using contact lenses in infant primates should employ a reduced
daily duration of lens-wear to eliminate the undesirable effect of contact
lens-wear per se on ocular development.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(00)00252-2 
PMID: 11164442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

