

3217. J Immunol. 2001 Feb 1;166(3):2116-21.

Effective antigen-specific immunotherapy in the marmoset model of multiple
sclerosis.

McFarland HI(1), Lobito AA, Johnson MM, Palardy GR, Yee CS, Jordan EK, Frank JA, 
Tresser N, Genain CP, Mueller JP, Matis LA, Lenardo MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Mature T cells initially respond to Ag by activation and expansion, but high and 
repeated doses of Ag cause programmed cell death and can suppress T cell-mediated
diseases in rodents. We evaluated repeated systemic Ag administration in a
marmoset model of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis that closely resembles 
the human disease multiple sclerosis. We found that treatment with MP4, a
chimeric, recombinant polypeptide containing human myelin basic protein and human
proteolipid protein epitopes, prevented clinical symptoms and did not exacerbate 
disease. CNS lesions were also reduced as assessed in vivo by magnetic resonance 
imaging. Thus, specific Ag-directed therapy can be effective and nontoxic in
primates.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.166.3.2116 
PMID: 11160263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3218. Biol Reprod. 2001 Feb;64(2):527-36.

Autoradiographic localization of specific binding of meiosis-activating sterol to
cumulus-oocyte complexes from marmoset, cow, and mouse.

Faerge I(1), Grøndahl C, Ottesen JL, Hyttel P.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Research 3, Pharmacology, Health Care Discovery, Novo Nordisk 
A/S, Novo Nordisk Park, G 8.1.39, Må, 2760 Måløv, Denmark. ingf@novo.dk

The sterol, 4,4-dimethyl-5alpha-cholesta-8,14,24-trien-3beta-ol (FF-MAS),
isolated from human follicular fluid, can induce resumption of meiosis in denuded
and cumulus-enclosed mouse oocytes inhibited by hypoxanthine, IBMX, or dibutyric 
cyclic adenosine monophosphate. In this study the distribution of FF-MAS binding 
sites in denuded oocytes and in cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) was studied using
light microscopic (LM) and transmission electron microscopic (TEM)
autoradiography in marmoset, cow, and mouse oocytes. Denuded (n = 39) and
cumulus-enclosed (n = 28) marmoset, cow, and mouse oocytes were cultured in the
presence of [3H]FF-MAS with and without excess of unlabeled FF-MAS, respectively.
In denuded oocytes LM autoradiography demonstrated specific binding to the
oolemma and zona pellucida and, to some extent, the cytoplasm. In the nucleus, no
specific binding of [3H]FF-MAS was demonstrated. In some COCs the labeling was
dispersed throughout the zona pellucida, the oolemma, and the cytoplasm as well
as the cumulus cells; whereas in others, only the outer part of the cumulus cells
were labeled. TEM autoradiograms of denuded cow oocytes (n = 6) demonstrated that
specific [3H]FF-MAS binding was closely related to the oolemma and that a low
level of [3H]FF-MAS binding to cumulus cell remnants was present. In conclusion, 
specific binding of FF-MAS is predominant at the oolemma of denuded oocytes,
suggesting the existence of a plasma membrane-associated molecule with affinity
for FF-MAS (i.e., a putative FF-MAS receptor).

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod64.2.527 
PMID: 11159355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

