

3220. Immunogenetics. 2000 Mar;51(3):219-30.

Sequence and diversity of DRB genes of Aotus nancymaae, a primate model for human
malaria parasites.

Nino-Vasquez JJ(1), Vogel D, Rodriguez R, Moreno A, Patarroyo ME, Pluschke G,
Daubenberger CA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Inmunologia, Hospital San Juan de Dios, Universidad Nacional de
Colombia, Santafe de Bogota, DC. javinino@hotmail.com

The New World primate Aotus nancymaae is susceptible to infection with the human 
malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax and has therefore
been recommended by the World Health Organization as a model for evaluation of
malaria vaccine candidates. We present here a first step in the molecular
characterization of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II DRB genes
of Aotus nancymaae (owl monkey or night monkey) by nucleotide sequence analysis
of the polymorphic exon 2 segments. In a group of 15 nonrelated animals
captivated in the wild, 34 MHC DRB alleles could be identified. Six allelic
lineages were detected, two of them having human counterparts, while two other
lineages have not been described in any other New World monkey species studied.
As in the common marmoset, the diversity of DRB alleles appears to have arisen
largely by point mutations in the beta-pleated sheets and by frequent exchange of
fixed sequence motifs in the alpha-helical portion. Pairs of alleles differing
only at amino acid position b86 by an exchange of valine to glycine are present
in Aotus, as in humans. Essential amino acid residues contributing to MHC DR
peptide binding pockets number 1 and 4 are conserved or semiconserved between
HLA-DR and Aona-DRB molecules, indicating a capacity to bind similar peptide
repertoires. These results support fully our using Aotus monkeys as an animal
model for evaluation of future subunit vaccine candidates.

DOI: 10.1007/s002510050035 
PMID: 10752632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3221. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2000 Nov-Dec;71(6):367-74.

Social influence on induced food preference in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Queyras A(1), Scolavino M, Puopolo M, Vitale A.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Comparative Psychology, Laboratorio di Fisiopatologia di Organo e
di Sistema, Istituto Superiore di Sanit√†, Rome, Italy.

In this paper, we investigate the role of sociality in changing an induced food
preference in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), in the particular
case of interactions between animals with contrasting information. After
modifying a food preference by making a preferred food unpalatable for pairs of
individuals (labelled as conditioned individuals) we recorded food choice under
three experimental conditions: pairs interacting (one conditioned pair with one
non-conditioned pair); pairs separated (conditioned and non-conditioned pairs by 
themselves the day after the social condition); control (conditioned and
non-conditioned pairs alone). The main results was that only the conditioned
individuals modified their food choice, consuming significantly more of the
spontaneously preferred food during the pairs interacting and pairs separated
conditions, but not during the control condition.

Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000052733 
PMID: 11155024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

