

3223. J Neurosci. 2001 Jan 1;21(1):249-61.

Connectional and architectonic evidence for dorsal and ventral V3, and
dorsomedial area in marmoset monkeys.

Lyon DC(1), Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240,
USA.

The existence of a third visual area, V3, along the outer margin of V2 was
originally proposed for primates on the basis of projections from V1. The
evidence for V3 was never totally convincing because investigators failed to
demonstrate V1 projections to ventral V3, and projections to dorsal V3 could be
attributed to the dorsomedial visual area (DM). We have reexamined the issue by
placing large injections into both dorsal and ventral portions of V1 and
subsequently processing flattened cortex for myelin and cytochrome oxidase so
that borders of V1 and V2 could be determined accurately. The injections were in 
small-brained marmosets, where ventral V1 was most accessible and cortex could be
flattened easily. The results indicate that dorsal V1 (representing the lower
visual quadrant) projects to a narrow "dorsal V3" located between DM and dorsal
V2, whereas ventral V1 (representing the upper visual quadrant) projects to a
narrow "ventral V3." Architectonic borders for these dorsal and ventral strips
were clearly apparent. In addition, all parts of V1 project to DM, whereas
ventral V1 connections indicate that the dorsolateral area (DL) extends more
ventral than has been established previously. We also placed injections within
dorsal V2, dorsal and ventral DM, and dorsal, central, and ventral middle
temporal (MT) area. Results from these injections were consistent with the
proposed retinotopic organizations of V3, DM, and DL. We provide compelling
evidence for the existence of areas V3, DM, and DL in marmosets and suggest that 
these areas are likely to be found in all primates.


PMCID: PMC6762432
PMID: 11150342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3224. J Neurosurg. 2001 Jan;94(1 Suppl):82-90.

Innervation of the caudal denervated ventral roots and their target muscles by
the rostral spinal motoneurons after implanting a nerve autograft in spinal
cord-injured adult marmosets.

Liu S(1), Aghakhani N, Boisset N, Said G, Tadie M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Neurosurgery, Facult√© de M ecine Paris-Sud,
University of Paris XI, France.

OBJECT: The authors conducted a study to determine the effects of using a nerve
autograft (NAG) to promote and guide axonal regrowth from the rostral spinal cord
to the caudal lumbar ventral nerve roots to restore hindlimb motor function in
adult marmosets after lower thoracic cord injury.
METHODS: Nine animals underwent a left-sided hemisection of the spinal cord at
T-12 via left-sided T9-L3 hemilaminectomy, with section of all ipsilateral
lumbrosacral ventral nerve roots. In the experimental group (five animals), an
NAG obtained from the right peroneal nerve was anastomosed with the sectioned and
electrophysiologically selected lumbar ventral roots (left L-3 and L-4)
controlling the left quadriceps muscle and then implanted into the left
ventrolateral T-10 cord. In the control group (four animals), the
sectioned/selected lumbar ventral roots were only ligated. After surgery, all
marmosets immediately suffered from complete paralysis of their left hindlimb.
Five months later, some clinical signs of reinnervation such as tension and
resistance began to appear in the paralyzed quadriceps of all experimental
animals that received autografts. Nine months postoperatively, three of the five 
experimental marmosets could maintain their lesioned hindlimb in hip flexion.
Muscle action potentials and motor evoked potentials were recorded from the
target quadriceps in all experimental marmosets, but these potentials were absent
in the control animals. Horseradish peroxidase retrograde labeling from the
distal sectioned/reconnected lumbar ventral roots traced 234+/-178 labeled
neurons in the ipsilateral T8-10 ventral horn, mainly close to the NAG tip.
Histological analysis showed numerous regenerating axons in this
denervated/reconnected nerve root pathway, as well as newly formed motor
endplates in the denervated/reinnervated quadriceps. No axonal regeneration was
detected in the control animals.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that the rostral spinal neurons can regrow into 
the caudal ventral roots through an NAG, thereby innervating the target muscle in
adult marmosets after spinal cord injury.

DOI: 10.3171/spi.2001.94.1.0082 
PMID: 11147873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

