

3227. Stroke. 2001 Jan;32(1):190-8.

NXY-059, a free radical--trapping agent, substantially lessens the functional
disability resulting from cerebral ischemia in a primate species.

Marshall JW(1), Duffin KJ, Green AR, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge (UK). jwbm2@cus.cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: NXY-059 is a novel nitrone with free radical-trapping
properties that has a considerable neuroprotective effect in rats. We have now
examined the efficacy of this drug at reducing long-term functional disability in
a primate model of stroke.
METHODS: Twelve monkeys were trained and tested on a variety of behavioral tasks 
used to dissociate and quantify motor and spatial deficits. Five minutes after
permanent occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery, monkeys received a 1-mL 
intravenous infusion of either saline or NXY-059 (28 mg x kg(-1)), and osmotic
minipumps, model 2001D, were implanted subcutaneously to provide continuous drug 
or saline infusion for 48 hours. Drug-filled pumps released NXY-059 at 16 mg x
kg(-1) x h(-1). The monkeys were retested 3 and 10 weeks after surgery to assess 
functional disability. Surgery, behavioral testing, and histology were all done
blinded to treatment condition.
RESULTS: NXY-059-treated monkeys were significantly better at reaching with their
hemiparetic arm than were saline-treated monkeys when retested 3 weeks (P:<0.01) 
and 10 weeks (P:<0.01) after surgery. Drug treatment also significantly lessened 
the degree of spatial perceptual neglect (P:<0.01), a debilitating though
ameliorating consequence of this infarct. NXY-059 treatment reduced the overall
amount of brain damage by >50% of saline-treatment values, with similar levels of
protection afforded to both white and gray matter.
CONCLUSIONS: This novel drug has a substantial protective effect, lessening the
disability caused by an experimentally induced stroke in a primate species. These
findings provide considerable encouragement for the clinical development of
NXY-059.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.32.1.190 
PMID: 11136936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3228. Biol Reprod. 2001 Jan;64(1):127-35.

Changes in follicle-stimulating hormone and follicle populations during the
ovarian cycle of the common marmoset.

Gilchrist RB(1), Wicherek M, Heistermann M, Nayudu PL, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, 37077, GÃ¶ttingen,
Germany. robert.gilchrist@adelaide.edu.au

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) belongs to the family Callitrichidae,
the only anthropoid primates with a high and variable number of ovulations (one
to four). An understanding of folliculogenesis in this species may provide some
insight into factors regulating multiple follicular growth in primates. The aims 
of this study were to characterize in detail changes in the antral follicle
population at different stages of the ovarian cycle, to characterize the marmoset
FSH profile, and to relate cyclic changes in FSH to changes in follicle sizes and
circulating estradiol concentrations. Fifty-five pairs of ovaries were collected 
(32 of which were at five distinct stages of the cycle) from adult marmosets, and
antral follicles were manually excised and separated into four size groups. Daily
urinary FSH and plasma estradiol and progesterone concentrations from Day 0 of
the follicular phase to 2 days postovulation were measured in 22 marmosets using 
enzyme immunoassays. The FSH profile revealed two distinct peaks, on Days 2 and
6, during the 10-day follicular phase, with a marginal periovulatory increase on 
Days 9 and 10. Estradiol levels rose significantly (P: < 0.05) above baseline
(Days 1-4) on Day 5 and continuously increased to a peak on the day preceding
ovulation (Days 8 and 9). Follicle dissection revealed a high (mean = 68) and
variable (range, 14-158) total number of antral follicles >0.6 mm. The number of 
antral follicles significantly declined (P: < 0.001) with age. The number of
preovulatory follicles (>2 mm) was positively correlated with the number of
antral follicles (P: < 0. 001) and tended to be negatively related to age (P: =
0.06). The number of antral follicles did not vary significantly with stage of
the ovarian cycle, although the follicle size distribution was cycle-stage
dependent (P: < 0.05). Follicles >1.0 mm appeared only in the follicular phase,
and preovulatory follicles (>2.0 mm) appeared only at the end of the follicular
phase (Days 7-9). The Day 2 FSH peak corresponded to emergence of a population of
medium-size antral follicles, and the Day 6 peak was consistent with rising
estradiol levels and appearance of the preovulatory follicles. These results
suggest that some aspects of marmoset folliculogenesis are comparable to those in
Old World primates, including the absence of multiple follicular waves and the
appearance of an identifiable dominant follicle in the midfollicular phase.
However, the midphase FSH peak, multiple dominant follicles, and abundance of
nonovulatory antral follicles differ strongly from the pattern in Old World
primates and humans. The findings are discussed in relation to the regulation of 
growth of multiple ovulatory follicles and provide the basis for further studies 
on factors influencing the dynamics of follicular growth and development in this 
species.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod64.1.127 
PMID: 11133667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

