

3229. Biol Reprod. 2001 Jan;64(1):120-6.

Quantitative analysis of spermatogenesis and apoptosis in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) reveals high rates of spermatogonial turnover and high
spermatogenic efficiency.

Weinbauer GF(1), Aslam H, Krishnamurthy H, Brinkworth MH, Einspanier A, Hodges
JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, D-48129 MÃ¼nster,
Germany. gerhard.weinbauer@covance.com

Spermatogenesis is characterized by the succession in time and space of specific 
germ cell associations (stages). There can be a single stage (e.g., rodents and
some macaques) or more than one stage (e.g., chimpanzee and human) per tubular
cross section. We analyzed the organization of the seminiferous epithelium and
quantified testicular germ cell production and apoptosis in a New World primate, 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Tubule cross sections contained more
than one stage, and the human six-stage system could be applied to marmoset
spermatogenesis. Stereological (optical disector) analysis (n = 5) revealed high 
spermatogenic efficiency during meiosis and no loss of spermatids during
spermiogenesis. The conversion of type A to type B spermatogonia was several-fold
higher than that reported for other primates. Highest apoptotic rates were found 
for S-phase cells (20%) and 4C cells (15%) by flow cytometric analysis (n = 6
animals); histological analysis confirmed spermatogonial apoptosis. Haploid germ 
cell apoptosis was <2%. Marmoset spermatogenesis is very efficient and involves
substantial spermatogonial proliferation. The prime determinants of germ cell
production in primates appear to be proliferation and survival of spermatogonia
rather than the efficiency of meiotic divisions. Based on the organizational
similarities, common marmosets could provide a new animal model for experimental 
studies of human spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod64.1.120 
PMID: 11133666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3230. Anim Behav. 2000 Dec;60(6):857-865.

Variation in steroid hormones associated with infant care behaviour and
experience in male marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Nunes S(1), Fite JE, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Nebraska Behavioral Biology Group, University of 
Nebraska, Omaha

We describe temporal patterns of change in paternal behaviour and urinary
concentrations of the steroid hormones testosterone (T) and oestradiol (E(2)) in 
male black tufted-ear marmosets, Callithrix kuhlii, relative to the birth of
their young, and test predictions of the hypotheses that (1) high levels of T are
incompatible with paternal care and (2) levels of T and E(2)vary with a father's 
prior experience in his family group. After young were born, levels of urinary T 
and E(2)remained near prepartum concentrations and rates at which fathers carried
infants were below peak levels until the approximate time that postpartum mating 
ordinarily occurs, suggesting a possible trade-off between readiness to mate and 
paternal behaviour in C. kuhlii. Infant-carrying behaviour of fathers occurred at
its highest rate 3-4 weeks after parturition and coincided with significant
declines in urinary levels of T and E(2), providing preliminary support for the
hypothesis that these hormones are antagonistic to paternal behaviour. Urinary T 
and E(2)declined among fathers regardless of whether their young survived to
weaning or died at birth, indicating that variation in these hormones after
parturition occurs even in the absence of continued stimuli from infants. When
adjusted for declines ordinarily associated with aging, urinary T tended to be
lower among fathers with a great deal of prior experience caring for young
compared with fathers having little or no experience, suggesting that either
experience affects T levels of fathers, or that T levels influence fathers'
chances of successfully rearing infants. Overall, our results suggest that in
male C. kuhlii, T, and possibly E(2), play an important role in balancing the
expression of paternal care with that of other reproductive behaviours. Copyright
2000 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.

DOI: 10.1006/anbe.2000.1524 
PMID: 11124885 

