

3231. Chem Senses. 2001 Jan;26(1):1-6.

Age-related alteration of taste bud distribution in the common marmoset.

Yamaguchi K(1), Harada S, Kanemaru N, Kasahara Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Physiology, Kagoshima University Dental School, 8-35-1
Sakuragaoka, Kagoshima 890-8544, Japan.

Alteration in the number of taste buds on the soft palate (SP), fungiform (FF),
foliate (FL) and circumvallate (CV) papillae in the common marmoset at different 
postnatal ages was examined histologically. After paraffin embedding, complete
serial sections at 10 microm thickness were made and stained by HE. Digitized
images for each section were examined carefully. The number of FF taste buds at
day 1 was 334. While only 20% of all the taste buds at birth possessed a taste
pore, 39% of 174 SP taste buds at day 1 possessed a taste pore. The number of
taste buds with pores at day 1 was small for the center CV (19 of 59), one side
CV (7 of 25), and one side FL (2 of 16). These results suggest that the
functional maturation of SP taste buds may precede maturation in other areas of
the tongue. The total number of taste buds increased with increasing age, reached
a maximum at 2 months of age: FF, 1069; SP, 609; CV-center, 530; CV-side, 390;
FL, 201, and decreased thereafter. Almost all taste buds possessed a taste pore
after 2 months of age. The decrease in the number of taste buds in the oral
cavity with increase in age may change taste sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1093/chemse/26.1.1 
PMID: 11124209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3232. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2001 Jan;280(1):R191-7.

Photic and nonphotic circadian phase resetting in a diurnal primate, the common
marmoset.

Glass JD(1), Tardif SD, Clements R, Mrosovsky N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio 442-0001,
USA. jglass@kent.edu

Despite the considerable literature on circadian entrainment, there is little
information on this subject in diurnal mammals. Contributing to this lack of
understanding is the problem of separating photic from nonphotic (behavioral)
phase-resetting events in diurnal species. In the present study, photic phase
resetting was obtained in diurnal common marmosets held under constant dim light 
(DimDim; <0.5 lx) by using a 20-s pulse of bright light to minimize time
available for behavioral arousal. This stimulus elicited phase advances at
circadian time (CT) 18-22 and phase delays at CT9-12. Daily presentation of these
20-s pulses produced entrainment with a phase angle of approximately 11 h (0 h = 
activity onset). Nonphotic phase resetting was obtained under DimDim with the use
of a 1-h-induced activity pulse, consisting of intermittent cage agitation and
water sprinkling, delivered in total darkness to minimize photic effects. This
stimulus caused phase delays at CT20-24, and entrainment to a scheduled daily
regimen of these pulses occurred with a phase angle of approximately 0 h. These
results indicate that photic and nonphotic phase-response curves (PRCs) of
marmosets are similar to those of nocturnal rodents and that nonphotic PRCs are
keyed to the phase of the suprachiasmatic nucleus pacemaker, not to the phase of 
the activity-rest cycle.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.2001.280.1.R191 
PMID: 11124151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

