

3232. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2001 Jan;280(1):R191-7.

Photic and nonphotic circadian phase resetting in a diurnal primate, the common
marmoset.

Glass JD(1), Tardif SD, Clements R, Mrosovsky N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio 442-0001,
USA. jglass@kent.edu

Despite the considerable literature on circadian entrainment, there is little
information on this subject in diurnal mammals. Contributing to this lack of
understanding is the problem of separating photic from nonphotic (behavioral)
phase-resetting events in diurnal species. In the present study, photic phase
resetting was obtained in diurnal common marmosets held under constant dim light 
(DimDim; <0.5 lx) by using a 20-s pulse of bright light to minimize time
available for behavioral arousal. This stimulus elicited phase advances at
circadian time (CT) 18-22 and phase delays at CT9-12. Daily presentation of these
20-s pulses produced entrainment with a phase angle of approximately 11 h (0 h = 
activity onset). Nonphotic phase resetting was obtained under DimDim with the use
of a 1-h-induced activity pulse, consisting of intermittent cage agitation and
water sprinkling, delivered in total darkness to minimize photic effects. This
stimulus caused phase delays at CT20-24, and entrainment to a scheduled daily
regimen of these pulses occurred with a phase angle of approximately 0 h. These
results indicate that photic and nonphotic phase-response curves (PRCs) of
marmosets are similar to those of nocturnal rodents and that nonphotic PRCs are
keyed to the phase of the suprachiasmatic nucleus pacemaker, not to the phase of 
the activity-rest cycle.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.2001.280.1.R191 
PMID: 11124151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3233. Eur J Neurosci. 2000 Dec;12(12):4155-70.

Distribution of glycine receptor subunits on primate retinal ganglion cells: a
quantitative analysis.

Lin B(1), Martin PR, Solomon SG, GrÃ¼nert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13 and Institute for Biomedical Research, The
University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

This study investigates the distribution of inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors
on sensory neurons. Ganglion cells in the retina of a New World monkey, the
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus, were injected with Lucifer yellow and
Neurobiotin and subsequently processed with antibodies against one (alpha1), or
against all subunits, of the glycine receptor, or against the anchoring protein
gephyrin. Immunoreactive (IR) puncta representing glycine receptor or gephyrin
clusters were found on the proximal and the distal dendrites of all ganglion cell
types investigated. For both parasol and midget cells, the density of receptor
clusters was greater on distal than proximal dendrites for all antibodies tested.
In parasol cells the average density for the alpha1 subunit of the glycine
receptor was 0.087 IR puncta/microm of dendrite, and for all subunits it was
0.119 IR puncta/microm of dendrite. Thus, the majority of glycine receptors on
parasol cells contain the alpha1 subunit. For parasol cells, we estimated an
average of 1.5 glycinergic synapses/100 microm2 dendritic membrane on proximal
dendrites and about 9.4 glycinergic synapses/100 microm2 on distal dendrites. The
segregation of receptors to the distal dendrites appears to be a common feature
of inhibitory neurotransmitter input to parasol and midget cells, and might be
associated with the receptive field surround mechanism.


PMID: 11122328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

