

3234. Virology. 2000 Dec 20;278(2):445-55.

Herpesvirus saimiri pathogenicity enhanced by thymidine kinase of herpes simplex 
virus.

Hiller C(1), Tamgüney G, Stolte N, Mätz-Rensing K, Lorenzen D, Hör S, Thurau M,
Wittmann S, Slavin S, Fickenscher H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schlossgarten 4, Erlangen,
D-91054, Germany.

Herpesvirus saimiri can be used as an efficient gene expression vector for human 
T lymphocytes and thus may allow applications in experimental leukemia therapy.
We constructed recombinant viruses for the functional expression of the thymidine
kinase (TK) of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV) as a suicide gene. These viruses
reliably allowed the targeted elimination of transduced nonpermissive human T
cells in vitro after the administration of ganciclovir. To test the reliability
of this function under the most stringent permissive conditions, in this study we
analyzed the influence of the prodrugs ganciclovir and acyclovir in common
marmosets on the acute leukemogenesis induced by either wild-type herpesvirus
saimiri C488 or by a recombinant derivative expressing TK of HSV. Antiviral drug 
treatment did not influence the rapid development of acute disease. In contrast, 
the presence of the HSV tk gene resulted in a faster disease progression. In
addition, HSV TK-expressing viruses showed faster replication than wild-type
virus in culture at low serum concentrations. Thus, HSV TK accelerates the
replication of herpesvirus saimiri and enhances its pathogenicity. This should be
generally considered when HSV TK is applied as a transgene in
replication-competent DNA virus vectors for gene therapy.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.2000.0665 
PMID: 11118367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3235. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2000 Sep;67(1):121-9.

Effects of ropinirole on motor behavior in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Fukuzaki K(1), Kamenosono T, Kitazumi K, Nagata R.

Author information: 
(1)Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories Ltd., 2438 Miyanoura, 891-1394, Kagoshima,
Japan.

The effects of ropinirole (4-[2-(dipropylamino)ethyl]-2-indolinone
monohydrochloride), a nonergoline dopamine receptor agonist with a high affinity 
for native dopamine D(2)-like receptors, on Parkinsonism induced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 2.5 mg/animal in common
marmosets were examined and compared to the effects of bromocriptine. Ropinirole 
(0.1-3 mg/kg, PO) increased motor activity dose dependently and reversed akinesia
or uncoordinated movement in MPTP-treated marmosets. The activities for
ropinirole were very similar to those of bromocriptine. Ropinirole had, however, 
several properties that differed from those of bromocriptine. Ropinirole caused a
more rapid onset of anti-Parkinsonian activity compared to bromocriptine, and had
a potency more than five times greater than that of bromocriptine in the
improvement of motor deficits. The combination of ropinirole and L-DOPA increased
the effectiveness of ropinirole or L-DOPA alone, and produced a more marked
additive effect on motor activity than did bromocriptine and L-DOPA. Chronic
administration of ropinirole for 21 days produced a statistically significant
increase in motor activity compared to the initial administration, and akinesia
scores, measured through rating the quality of movements, were also improved
without obvious dyskinesia. This study suggests that ropinirole is a dopamine
D(2)-like receptor agonistic drug of potential use in the treatment of
Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(00)00305-1 
PMID: 11113491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

