

3235. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2000 Sep;67(1):121-9.

Effects of ropinirole on motor behavior in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Fukuzaki K(1), Kamenosono T, Kitazumi K, Nagata R.

Author information: 
(1)Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories Ltd., 2438 Miyanoura, 891-1394, Kagoshima,
Japan.

The effects of ropinirole (4-[2-(dipropylamino)ethyl]-2-indolinone
monohydrochloride), a nonergoline dopamine receptor agonist with a high affinity 
for native dopamine D(2)-like receptors, on Parkinsonism induced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 2.5 mg/animal in common
marmosets were examined and compared to the effects of bromocriptine. Ropinirole 
(0.1-3 mg/kg, PO) increased motor activity dose dependently and reversed akinesia
or uncoordinated movement in MPTP-treated marmosets. The activities for
ropinirole were very similar to those of bromocriptine. Ropinirole had, however, 
several properties that differed from those of bromocriptine. Ropinirole caused a
more rapid onset of anti-Parkinsonian activity compared to bromocriptine, and had
a potency more than five times greater than that of bromocriptine in the
improvement of motor deficits. The combination of ropinirole and L-DOPA increased
the effectiveness of ropinirole or L-DOPA alone, and produced a more marked
additive effect on motor activity than did bromocriptine and L-DOPA. Chronic
administration of ropinirole for 21 days produced a statistically significant
increase in motor activity compared to the initial administration, and akinesia
scores, measured through rating the quality of movements, were also improved
without obvious dyskinesia. This study suggests that ropinirole is a dopamine
D(2)-like receptor agonistic drug of potential use in the treatment of
Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(00)00305-1 
PMID: 11113491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3236. J Neurosci Res. 2000 Dec 15;62(6):821-9.

Motoneurons of the adult marmoset can grow axons and reform motor endplates
through a peripheral nerve bridge joining the locally injured cervical spinal
cord to the denervated biceps brachii muscle.

Emery E(1), Rhrich-Haddout F, Kassar-Duchossoy L, Lyoussi B, Tadié M, Horvat JC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, René Descartes University, Paris, France.

Reconnection of the injured spinal cord (SC) of the marmoset with the denervated 
biceps brachii muscle (BB) was obtained by using a peripheral nerve (PN) bridge. 
In 13 adult males, a 45 mm segment of the peroneal nerve was removed: one end was
implanted unilaterally into the cervical SC of the same animal (autograft),
determining a local injury, although the other end was either directly inserted
into the BB (Group A) or, alternatively, sutured to its transected motor nerve,
the musculocutaneous nerve (Group B). From 2-4 months post-surgery, eight out of 
the 10 surviving animals responded by a contraction of the BB to electrical
stimulations of the PN bridge. All ten were then processed for a morphological
study. As documented by retrograde axonal tracing studies using horse radish
peroxidase or Fast Blue (FB), a mean number of 314 (Group A) or 45 (Group B)
spinal neurons, mainly located close to the site of injury and grafting,
re-expressed a capacity to grow and extend axons into the PN bridge. Most of
these regenerated axons were able to grow up to the BB and form or reform
functional motor endplates. Many of the spinal neurons that were retrogradely
labeled with FB simultaneously displayed immunoreactivity for choline
acetyl-transferase and consequently were assumed to be motoneurons. Reinnervation
and regeneration of the BB were documented by methods revealing axon terminals,
endplates and myofibrillary ATPase activity. Our results indicate that
motoneurons of the focally injured SC of a small-sized primate can, following the
example of the adult rat, re-establish a lost motor function by extending new
axons all the way through a PN bridge connected to a denervated skeletal muscle.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4547(20001215)62:6<821::AID-JNR9>3.0.CO;2-K 
PMID: 11107167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

