

3237. Br J Pharmacol. 2000 Dec;131(7):1262-74.

Differential vasoconstrictor activity of human urotensin-II in vascular tissue
isolated from the rat, mouse, dog, pig, marmoset and cynomolgus monkey.

Douglas SA(1), Sulpizio AC, Piercy V, Sarau HM, Ames RS, Aiyar NV, Ohlstein EH,
Willette RN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Pharmacology, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals,
709 Swedeland Road, King of Prussia, PA 19406-0939, USA.
steve_douglas-1@sbphrd.com

1. Urotensin-II (U-II) and its G-protein-coupled receptor, GPR14, are expressed
within mammalian cardiac and peripheral vascular tissue and, as such, may
regulate mammalian cardiovascular function. The present study details the
vasoconstrictor profile of this cyclic undecapeptide in different vascular
tissues isolated from a diverse range of mammalian species (rats, mice, dogs,
pigs, marmosets and cynomolgus monkeys). 2. The vasoconstrictor activity of human
U-II was dependent upon the anatomical origin of the vessel studied and the
species from which it was isolated. In the rat, constrictor responses were most
pronounced in thoracic aortae and carotid arteries: -log[EC(50)]s 9.09+/-0.19 and
8.84+/-0.21, R(max)s 143+/-21 and 67+/-26% 60 mM KCl, respectively (compared, for
example, to -log[EC(50)] 7.90+/-0.11 and R(max) 142+/-12% 60 mM KCl for
endothelin-1 [ET-1] in thoracic aortae). Responses were, however, absent in mice 
aortae (-log[EC(50)] <6.50). These findings were further contrasted by the
observation that U-II was a 'coronary-selective' spasmogen in the dog
(-log[EC(50)] 9.46+/-0.11, R(max) 109+/-23% 60 mM KCl in LCX coronary artery),
yet exhibited a broad spectrum of vasoconstrictor activity in arterial tissue
from Old World monkeys (-log[EC(50)]s range from 8.96+/-0.15 to 9.92+/-0.13,
R(max)s from 43+/-16 to 527+/-135% 60 mM KCl). Interestingly, significant
differences in reproducibility and vasoconstrictor efficacy were seen in tissue
from pigs and New World primates (vessels which responded to noradrenaline,
phenylephrine, KCl or ET-1 consistently). 3. Thus, human U-II is a potent,
efficacious vasoconstrictor of a variety of mammalian vascular tissues. Although 
significant species/anatomical variations exist, the data support the hypothesis 
that U-II influences the physiological regulation of mammalian cardiovascular
function.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0703690 
PMCID: PMC1572453
PMID: 11090097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3238. Exp Neurol. 2000 Dec;166(2):235-45.

The antioxidant ebselen prevents neurotoxicity and clinical symptoms in a primate
model of Parkinson's disease.

Moussaoui S(1), Obinu MC, Daniel N, Reibaud M, Blanchard V, Imperato A.

Author information: 
(1)Aventis Pharma, CNS Program, Centre de Recherche de Vitry-Alfortville
(Building CRV8), 13, quai Jules Guesde, Vitry sur Seine Cedex, 94403, France.

1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), via its major metabolite
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)), produces in primates including humans
clinical, biochemical, and neuropathological changes similar to those which occur
in idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Ebselen is an antioxidant drug with
glutathione peroxidase-like activity and a proven neuroprotective action in
stroke patients. Here we show that Ebselen, when administered before, during, and
after MPTP injections, prevents both neuronal loss and clinical symptoms in a
primate MPTP model of Parkinson's disease. Ebselen also prevents peroxide radical
overproduction induced by serum withdrawal in cultured PC12 cells and hydroxyl
radical generation induced by the mitochondrial toxin, MPP(+), in vivo in rat
brain. Moreover, Ebselen inhibits MPP(+)-induced toxicity in PC12 cells, without 
interacting with the dopamine uptake system. Our results demonstrate that
compounds which prevent mitochondrial dysfunction and free radical production may
be useful as preventive treatment of Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7516 
PMID: 11085889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

