

3239. J Neurol. 2000 Sep;247 Suppl 5:V16-22.

The metabolic rate and vulnerability of dopaminergic neurons, and adenosine
dynamics in the cerebral cortex, nucleus accumbens, caudate nucleus, and putamen 
of the common marmoset.

Nomoto M(1), Kaseda S, Iwata S, Shimizu T, Fukuda T, Nakagawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.
nomoto@m.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

The pathophysiology of the striatum and cerebral cortex were studied from the
pharmacological aspect. Investigation of the dopamine content in the cerebral
cortex revealed that the premotor and motor area showed the highest level
(61+/-6.2 ng/g). Intravenous injection of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) at a dose of 10 mg/kg reduced
the dopamine content in the caudate nucleus and putamen to 2-3% of the control
level in common marmosets, while it fell to 60% in the nucleus accumbens. There
was no alteration of the dopamine content in the cerebral cortex.
Immunohistochemical staining for tyrosine hydroxylase in the midbrains of
MPTP-treated marmosets showed almost complete disappearance of dopaminergic cells
from the substantia nigra and good preservation of cells in the ventrotegmental
area. Dopaminergic cells projecting to the caudate/putamen, nucleus accumbens,
and cerebral cortex showed marked, moderate, and no vulnerability to MPTP,
respectively. After systemic administration of MPTP, dopaminergic neurons
projecting to the caudate nucleus and putamen were damaged equally. However, the 
compensatory increase of dopamine turnover was more prominent in the putamen than
in the caudate nucleus. Thus, nigroputaminal dopaminergic neurons may have a
higher level of activity than neurons in the caudate. The neural connections and 
functions of the caudate nucleus and putamen have already been differentiated
anatomically or physiologically. This compensatory increase of the dopamine
turnover rate is another aspect of functional differences between the caudate
nucleus and putamen. Investigation of the dopamine content in the head, body, and
tail of the caudate nucleus showed no differences in the concentration of
dopamine. However, a study of the metabolic rate of dopamine using
alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, a tyrosine hydoxylase inhibitor, showed higher
metabolism of dopamine in the head of the caudate nucleus in common marmosets.
Thus, dopaminergic neurons projecting to the caudate nucleus may show
topographical differences in their firing rates. A microdialysis study indicated 
an increase in the metabolism of adenosine in the striatum of MPTP-treated
animals. Cholinergic neurons are interneurons and are one of the main sources of 
adenosine in the striatum. Dopaminergic input from the substantia nigra acting on
cholinergic neurons was decreased following MPTP treatment. The increase of
adenosine metabolism suggested that cholinergic neurons in the striatum receive
inhibitory inputs from nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00007779 
PMID: 11081800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3240. Am J Primatol. 2000 Nov;52(3):149-54.

Non-invasive collection of ejaculates from the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) using penile vibrostimulation.

Kuederling I(1), Schneiders A, SÃ¸nksen J, Nayudu PL, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany.

Penile vibrostimulation (PVS), a noninvasive repeatable method, has been shown in
the squirrel monkey to yield semen of higher quality than rectal probe
electro-ejaculation (RPE). The present study aimed at establishing the conditions
for PVS to collect ejaculates from marmoset monkeys. Ten adult males were trained
on the appropriate handling before each was subject to six to 12 PVS tests.
Ejaculation was stimulated using a FertiCare personal vibrator fitted with a 2 cm
x 0.5 cm i.d. glass tube. The stimulus was repeatedly applied over a frequency of
75-95 Hz and amplitude of 1-2 mm for up to 20 min. Ejaculates were analyzed for
volume, total sperm number, sperm concentration, and proportion of living and
motile sperm. Ejaculates were obtained in 31 of 88 PVS tests; 87.1% of the
ejaculations occurred at 80-85 Hz frequency and 1-1.5 mm amplitude. In 18 tests
ejaculates were produced within 49.7 seconds. Ejaculates were characterized by
(mean values): volume 31.9 microl, total sperm number 34.2 x 10(6)/ejaculate,
concentration 1,154.2 x 10(6) sperm/ml, live sperm 74.6%, motile sperm 59.6%.
Total number and concentration of spermatozoa were significantly enhanced in
singly living males. PVS yielded three to four times more spermatozoa than
comparable previously published values for RPE. Enhancing the success rate by
preselecting males for responsiveness may render PVS the sperm collection method 
of choice in marmoset monkeys.

DOI: 10.1002/1098-2345(200011)52:3<149::AID-AJP4>3.0.CO;2-B 
PMID: 11078029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

