

3241. J Virol. 2000 Dec;74(23):11115-20.

Determining the role of the Epstein-Barr virus Cp EBNA2-dependent enhancer during
the establishment of latency by using mutant and wild-type viruses recovered from
cottontop marmoset lymphoblastoid cell lines.

Yoo L(1), Speck SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen (EBNA) 2 (EBNA2) is involved in
upregulating the expression of both EBNAs and latency-associated membrane
proteins. Transcription of the six EBNA genes, which are expressed in
EBV-immortalized primary B cells, arises from one of two promoters, Cp and Wp,
located near the left end of the viral genome. Wp is exclusively used to drive
EBNA gene transcription during the initial stages of infection in primary B
cells; induction of transcription from Cp follows. We previously have mapped an
EBNA2-dependent enhancer upstream of Cp (M. Woisetschlaeger et al., Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA 88:3942-3946, 1991) and, more recently, have demonstrated that
deletion of this enhancer results in EBV-immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines
(LCLs) that are heavily biased toward the use of Wp to drive transcription of the
EBNA genes (L. Yoo et al., J. Virol. 71:9134-9142, 1997). To assess the
immortalizing capacity of this mutant EBV and to monitor the early events after
infection of primary B cells, B cells isolated from cottontop marmosets were used
to generate LCLs immortalized with the Cp EBNA2 enhancer deletion mutant virus.
As previously reported, all EBV-infected marmoset LCLs examined could be
triggered to produce significant levels of virus. Infection of human B cells with
wild-type or Cp EBNA2 enhancer mutant viruses recovered from marmoset B-cell
lines demonstrated that (i) the Cp EBNA2 enhancer mutant virus immortalizes
primary human B cells nearly as efficiently as wild-type virus and (ii) the Cp
EBNA2-dependent enhancer plays an important role in the induction of Cp activity 
during the early stages of infection. The latter is consistent with the phenotype
of LCLs immortalized with the Cp EBNA2 enhancer mutant EBV. Finally, using an
established LCL in which EBNA2 function is regulated by beta-estradiol, we showed
that the loss of EBNA2 function results in an approximately 4-fold decrease in
the steady-state levels of Cp-initiated transcripts and a concomitant increase in
the steady-state levels of Wp-initiated transcripts. Taken together, these
results provide strong evidence that EBNA2 plays an important role in regulating 
Cp activity. These results also demonstrate that diminished induction of Cp
activity does not appear to affect the ability of EBV to immortalize primary B
cells in cultures. Finally, as shown here, infection of marmoset B cells with
immortalization-competent mutants of EBV provides a convenient reservoir for the 
production of mutant viruses.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.23.11115-11120.2000 
PMCID: PMC113192
PMID: 11070007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3242. J Virol Methods. 2000 Nov;90(2):193-204.

Production monitoring and purification of EBV encoded latent membrane protein 1
expressed and secreted by recombinant baculovirus infected insect cells.

Meij P(1), Vervoort MB, Meijer CJ, Bloemena E, Middeldorp JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University Hospital Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands. p.meij@azvu.nl

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) encoded latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is expressed in
malignancies with latency type II and III and is an important transforming
protein. To further study this protein LMP1 was expressed by and purified from
recombinant baculovirus infected Sf9 cells. Expression levels of LMP1 in EBV
transformed B cell lines and Sf9 cells were analyzed using a newly developed
quantitative LMP1-capture ELISA. Highest expression was found in the cell line
X50/7 (6.2 ng/10(7) cells), whereas expression levels of recombinant LMP1 (bLMP1)
in Sf9 cells reached 506 ng/10(7) cells. Surprisingly bLMP1 could also be
detected in the culture medium as a stable full-length protein. Highest
expression in Sf9 cells (506 ng/10(7) cells) was observed at 48 h post infection 
and in the culture medium (1590 ng/ml) at 96 h post infection. Before
purification bLMP1 was solubilised using 0.22 m octyl-beta-glucoside at pH 6.0.
Purification of bLMP1 using Q-Sepharose FF yielded 10-80 times enriched bLMP1
fractions, indicating that Q-Sepharose can be used for pre-purification. A
one-step monoclonal antibody based immunoaffinity chromatography yielded highly
purified bLMP1. Although the overall yields (20 microg purified LMP1 from 100 ml 
culture supernatant) and protein concentrations were low, higher concentrations
of >95% purified BLMP1 could be reached after freeze drying.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-0934(00)00233-0 
PMID: 11064119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

