

3244. J Neurocytol. 1999 Dec;28(12):989-98.

Intraretinal axon diameter: a single cell analysis in the marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Walsh N(1), Fitzgibbon T, Ghosh KK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biomedical Research, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia 2006.

We have labelled individual retinal ganglion cells of a New World primate, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with neurobiotin and then measured axon,
soma and dendritic field diameter. A total of 111 cells were analysed (62 parasol
cells, 22 midget cells, 16 hedge cells and 11 small bistratified cells). When all
retinal ganglion cells were grouped together axon diameter was positively
correlated to soma diameter. When analysed according to cell class only midget
cells showed a positive correlation between soma size and mean axon diameter.
Dendritic field diameter and mean axon diameter of both parasol and midget cells 
showed significant correlations. Axon diameter is not constant along the
intraretinal length of the axon and the rate of change in diameter appears to be 
related to the cell class and the initial size of the axon. Midget cell axons
showed a rapid increase of up to 20% over the first 200 microm in contrast to
parasol cell axons which increased more slowly over this distance but then showed
a marked increase in diameter of up to 40% over the next 450 microm. However,
axon diameter did not remain at these increased diameters but decreased at
greater distances from the soma. The degree to which an axon changes its diameter
is related to retinal ganglion cell class and the initial size of the axon. We
postulate that these variations in intraretinal axon diameter may have a direct
influence on conduction velocity and reflect a compensatory mechanism to minimise
spatiotemporal dispersion along the visual pathway.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007083920206 
PMID: 11054900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3245. Br J Haematol. 2000 Sep;110(4):985-92.

Chelator-induced iron excretion in iron-overloaded marmosets.

Sergejew T(1), Forgiarini P, Schnebli HP.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, Basle, Switzerland. thomas.sergejew@pharma.novartis.com

In order to test new orally active iron chelators in a predictive way, a primate 
model has been developed. This model makes use of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) and its overall design is similar to a previously reported monkey model.
However, this new model enables a higher compound throughput and requires lower
amounts of test compound because the animals are much easier to handle and have
much lower body weights. The marmosets were iron-overloaded by three
intraperitoneal injections of iron (III) hydroxide polyisomaltose. For the
iron-balance studies, the animals were kept in metabolic cages and were
maintained on a low-iron diet in order to reduce faecal background. After
compound administration, the excretion of iron in urine and faeces was followed
for 2 d. A series of well-known chelators was tested for validation of the model.
In particular, comparison of the iron-clearing properties of DFO, L1, CP94 and
HBED in marmosets and humans demonstrated the predictive value of the model and
justify our expectation that if iron chelators such as CGP65015, ICL670A and
CGP75254A are active in marmosets, they will be active in humans as well.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2141.2000.02260.x 
PMID: 11054093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

