

3246. J Neurosci. 2000 Nov 1;20(21):8209-17.

Dopamine release and uptake dynamics within nonhuman primate striatum in vitro.

Cragg SJ(1), Hille CJ, Greenfield SA.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Oxford, OX1 3QT, United Kingdom.
stephanie.cragg@pharm.ox.ac.uk

The putamen of the human striatum is a heterogeneous nucleus that contains the
primary site of loss of dopamine (DA) in Parkinson's disease (PD). Furthermore,
different functional domains of the putamen are heterogeneously susceptible to DA
loss, and yet the dynamic regulation of extracellular DA concentration ([DA](o)) 
and comparison between domains has not been explored in the primate brain. In
these studies, DA was measured in real time using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at
a carbon-fiber microelectrode in vitro in striatal sections from the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). [DA](o) released by a single stimulus pulse varied
threefold along a ventromedial-dorsolateral axis. DA uptake was via the DA
transporter (GBR12909 sensitive, desipramine insensitive). On the basis of data
modeling with simulations of Michaelis-Menten kinetics, rate maximum, V(max),
varied with region: both [DA](o) and V(max) were greatest in regions most
vulnerable in PD. These differences were reflected in part by regional variation 
in DA content. [DA](o), V(max), and regional variation were two- to threefold
greater than in rodent caudatoputamen. In addition, steady-state [DA](o) at
physiological firing rates in primate striatum was controlled by depolarization
frequency, uptake, and presynaptic autoreceptors. Furthermore, regulation of
[DA](o) by these mechanisms differed significantly between limbic- and
motor-associated domains. These data indicate interspecies heterogeneity in
striatal DA dynamics that must be considered when extrapolating behavioral and
drug responses from rodent to the primate brain. Moreover, the heterogeneity
demonstrated within the primate putamen in the availability and dynamic
regulation of DA may be central to understanding DA function in health, cocaine
abuse, and disease.


PMCID: PMC6772736
PMID: 11050144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3247. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2000 Oct;120(1):2-7.

Adrenocortical function in a new world primate, the marmoset monkey, Callithrix
jacchus.

Whitehouse BJ(1), Abayasekara DR.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology and Reproduction Research Group, King's College London, Guy's
Campus, London, SE1 1UL.

The function of the adrenal cortex of the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus has 
been investigated. In common with other New World primates, these animals seem to
be glucocorticoid resistant. Blood and adrenal glands were obtained from male and
female animals under terminal pentobarbitone anesthesia. Dispersed adrenal cell
preparations were obtained by treatment with collagenase and incubated with
ACTH(1-24), (0.1-1000 nM) angiotensin II (0.1-1000 nM), dibutyryl cyclic AMP
(dbcAMP; 30-1000 microM), and forskolin (FSK; 1-30 microM). Plasma cortisol
levels (2113 +/- 449 ng/ml male; 3858 +/- 429 ng/ml female) were found to be 10- 
to 20-fold higher than those quoted for Old World primates and man. The cell
preparations showed no significant response to any dose of ACTH tested (0.1-1000 
nM), although addition of exogenous precursor (22R-hydroxycholesterol, 2.5
microM) resulted in an increased yield of cortisol and aldosterone. Cyclic AMP
production was increased in response to forskolin (1-30 microM) but not
ACTH(1-24) (1-1000 nM). In addition, dose-related responses to angiotensin II
(maximal stimulation of 316 +/- 49% basal aldosterone at 100 nM angiotensin II), 
dbcAMP (maximal stimulation of 449 +/- 24% basal cortisol at 300 microM dbcAMP), 
and forskolin (maximal stimulation of 394 +/- 31% basal cortisol at 10 microM
FSK) were obtained. The lack of a response in vitro to ACTH in C. jacchus cannot,
therefore, be attributed either to general failure of the cells or to defects in 
postreceptor signaling mechanisms. The results suggest that there is a reduction 
in adrenal ACTH receptor number or affinity, with a high basal production rate in
vivo maintaining the elevated plasma cortisol levels.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/gcen.2000.7532 
PMID: 11042005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

