

3247. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2000 Oct;120(1):2-7.

Adrenocortical function in a new world primate, the marmoset monkey, Callithrix
jacchus.

Whitehouse BJ(1), Abayasekara DR.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology and Reproduction Research Group, King's College London, Guy's
Campus, London, SE1 1UL.

The function of the adrenal cortex of the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus has 
been investigated. In common with other New World primates, these animals seem to
be glucocorticoid resistant. Blood and adrenal glands were obtained from male and
female animals under terminal pentobarbitone anesthesia. Dispersed adrenal cell
preparations were obtained by treatment with collagenase and incubated with
ACTH(1-24), (0.1-1000 nM) angiotensin II (0.1-1000 nM), dibutyryl cyclic AMP
(dbcAMP; 30-1000 microM), and forskolin (FSK; 1-30 microM). Plasma cortisol
levels (2113 +/- 449 ng/ml male; 3858 +/- 429 ng/ml female) were found to be 10- 
to 20-fold higher than those quoted for Old World primates and man. The cell
preparations showed no significant response to any dose of ACTH tested (0.1-1000 
nM), although addition of exogenous precursor (22R-hydroxycholesterol, 2.5
microM) resulted in an increased yield of cortisol and aldosterone. Cyclic AMP
production was increased in response to forskolin (1-30 microM) but not
ACTH(1-24) (1-1000 nM). In addition, dose-related responses to angiotensin II
(maximal stimulation of 316 +/- 49% basal aldosterone at 100 nM angiotensin II), 
dbcAMP (maximal stimulation of 449 +/- 24% basal cortisol at 300 microM dbcAMP), 
and forskolin (maximal stimulation of 394 +/- 31% basal cortisol at 10 microM
FSK) were obtained. The lack of a response in vitro to ACTH in C. jacchus cannot,
therefore, be attributed either to general failure of the cells or to defects in 
postreceptor signaling mechanisms. The results suggest that there is a reduction 
in adrenal ACTH receptor number or affinity, with a high basal production rate in
vivo maintaining the elevated plasma cortisol levels.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/gcen.2000.7532 
PMID: 11042005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3248. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 2000 Sep;39(5):14-7.

Cardiovascular parameters telemetrically measured during pregnancy, parturition, 
and lactation in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Gerber P(1), Schnell CR, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.

Here we present the first report of heart rate, blood pressure, and locomotive
activity of a female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) that was moving freely 
in its home cage during gestation, parturition, and lactation. We collected the
data by using a miniaturized telemetry and data-acquisition system (Data
Sciences, St. Paul, MN) that had been adapted for marmosets (1). The parameters
were recorded continually from 12 days before to 15 days after parturition.
Parturition lasted about 3.5 h, during which marked changes in heart rate,
systolic blood pressure, and diastolic blood pressure occurred. To obtain control
values, we again measured these parameters for 13 days during a "physiologically 
neutral" phase (4 months after parturition), when the female was neither pregnant
nor lactating. Heart rate was 200% higher, systolic blood pressure was 25%
higher, and diastolic blood pressure was 75% higher during parturition than
during the neutral phase.


PMID: 11040868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

