

3248. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 2000 Sep;39(5):14-7.

Cardiovascular parameters telemetrically measured during pregnancy, parturition, 
and lactation in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Gerber P(1), Schnell CR, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.

Here we present the first report of heart rate, blood pressure, and locomotive
activity of a female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) that was moving freely 
in its home cage during gestation, parturition, and lactation. We collected the
data by using a miniaturized telemetry and data-acquisition system (Data
Sciences, St. Paul, MN) that had been adapted for marmosets (1). The parameters
were recorded continually from 12 days before to 15 days after parturition.
Parturition lasted about 3.5 h, during which marked changes in heart rate,
systolic blood pressure, and diastolic blood pressure occurred. To obtain control
values, we again measured these parameters for 13 days during a "physiologically 
neutral" phase (4 months after parturition), when the female was neither pregnant
nor lactating. Heart rate was 200% higher, systolic blood pressure was 25%
higher, and diastolic blood pressure was 75% higher during parturition than
during the neutral phase.


PMID: 11040868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3249. Neuroscience. 2000;99(3):457-68.

L-DOPA produces strong induction of c-fos messenger RNA in dopamine-denervated
cortical and striatal areas of the common marmoset.

Svenningsson P(1), Gunne L, Andren PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska Institutet, SE-171 77,
Stockholm, Sweden. svennip@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with near-complete unilateral
6-hydroxydopamine denervation of the dopaminergic input received a single
injection of saline or L-DOPA (15mg/kg plus 6.25mg/kg benserazide). Using in situ
hybridization, the effects of these treatments on c-fos messenger RNA expression 
in the cerebral cortex, the striatal complex and the external layer of the
pallidum were studied. Moreover, receptor autoradiography was used to determine
the levels of dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptors in these areas. In the cerebral
cortex, animals treated with L-DOPA displayed a high expression of c-fos
messenger RNA restricted to the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. No changes in the
levels of cortical D(1) and D(2) receptors were found in the dopamine-denervated 
hemisphere. L-DOPA treatment also induced a strong expression of c-fos messenger 
RNA in the striatal complex in the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. The levels of 
striatal D(2), but not D(1), receptors were increased in the dopamine-denervated 
hemisphere. In the external pallidum, the major terminal region for D(2) dopamine
receptor-containing striatal projection neurons, L-DOPA treatment induced c-fos
messenger RNA expression in both the intact and the dopamine-denervated
hemispheres.Thus, using c-fos messenger RNA as a biochemical marker of
postsynaptic neuronal activation, these results provide evidence that
near-complete dopamine depletion causes a profound supersensitization to L-DOPA
treatment in the cerebral cortex and in the striatal complex, but not in the
external layer of the pallidum, of the primate brain. The cortical response may
be unique to the primate brain, but c-fos messenger RNA activation within the
striatum has also been reported in the rodent. The effects of L-DOPA probably
depend both on a direct activation of supersensitized dopamine receptors by
dopamine produced in the few remaining, but hyperactive, dopaminergic nerve
terminals and in serotonergic nerve terminals, as well as on indirect actions of 
L-DOPA related to activation of circuitries connecting cerebral cortex and basal 
ganglia structures. These results provide novel information on the mechanisms
underlying L-DOPA's action in the cerebral cortex, striatum and external pallidum
in a primate model of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(00)00213-x 
PMID: 11029538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

