

3249. Neuroscience. 2000;99(3):457-68.

L-DOPA produces strong induction of c-fos messenger RNA in dopamine-denervated
cortical and striatal areas of the common marmoset.

Svenningsson P(1), Gunne L, Andren PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska Institutet, SE-171 77,
Stockholm, Sweden. svennip@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with near-complete unilateral
6-hydroxydopamine denervation of the dopaminergic input received a single
injection of saline or L-DOPA (15mg/kg plus 6.25mg/kg benserazide). Using in situ
hybridization, the effects of these treatments on c-fos messenger RNA expression 
in the cerebral cortex, the striatal complex and the external layer of the
pallidum were studied. Moreover, receptor autoradiography was used to determine
the levels of dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptors in these areas. In the cerebral
cortex, animals treated with L-DOPA displayed a high expression of c-fos
messenger RNA restricted to the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. No changes in the
levels of cortical D(1) and D(2) receptors were found in the dopamine-denervated 
hemisphere. L-DOPA treatment also induced a strong expression of c-fos messenger 
RNA in the striatal complex in the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. The levels of 
striatal D(2), but not D(1), receptors were increased in the dopamine-denervated 
hemisphere. In the external pallidum, the major terminal region for D(2) dopamine
receptor-containing striatal projection neurons, L-DOPA treatment induced c-fos
messenger RNA expression in both the intact and the dopamine-denervated
hemispheres.Thus, using c-fos messenger RNA as a biochemical marker of
postsynaptic neuronal activation, these results provide evidence that
near-complete dopamine depletion causes a profound supersensitization to L-DOPA
treatment in the cerebral cortex and in the striatal complex, but not in the
external layer of the pallidum, of the primate brain. The cortical response may
be unique to the primate brain, but c-fos messenger RNA activation within the
striatum has also been reported in the rodent. The effects of L-DOPA probably
depend both on a direct activation of supersensitized dopamine receptors by
dopamine produced in the few remaining, but hyperactive, dopaminergic nerve
terminals and in serotonergic nerve terminals, as well as on indirect actions of 
L-DOPA related to activation of circuitries connecting cerebral cortex and basal 
ganglia structures. These results provide novel information on the mechanisms
underlying L-DOPA's action in the cerebral cortex, striatum and external pallidum
in a primate model of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(00)00213-x 
PMID: 11029538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3250. J Mol Evol. 2000 Sep;51(3):214-22.

MHC (major histocompatibility complex)-DRB genes and polymorphisms in common
marmoset.

Wu MS(1), Tani K, Sugiyama H, Hibino H, Izawa K, Tanabe T, Nakazaki Y, Ishii H,
Ohashi J, Hohjoh H, Iseki T, Tojo A, Nakamura Y, Tanioka Y, Tokunaga K, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Therapy, Advanced Clinical Research Center (ACRC), The
Institute of Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

A New World monkey, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), will be used as a
preclinical animal model to study the feasibility of cell and gene therapy
targeting immunological and hematological disorders. For elucidating the
immunogenetic background of common marmoset to further studies, in the present
study, polymorphisms of MHC-DRB genes in this species were examined. Twenty-one
Caja-DRB exon 2 alleles, including seven new ones, were detected by means of
subcloning and the polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation
polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) methods followed by nucleotide sequencing. Based on the
alignment of these allele sequences, we designed two pairs of specific primers
and established a PCR-SSCP method for DNA-based histocompatibility typing of the 
common marmoset. According to the family segregation data and phylogenetic
analyses, we presumed that Caja-DRB alleles could be classified into five
different loci. Southern blotting analysis also supported the existence of
multiple DRB loci. The patterns of nucleotide substitutions suggests that
positive selection operates in the antigen-recognition sites of Caja-DRB genes.

DOI: 10.1007/s002390010083 
PMID: 11029066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

