

3250. J Mol Evol. 2000 Sep;51(3):214-22.

MHC (major histocompatibility complex)-DRB genes and polymorphisms in common
marmoset.

Wu MS(1), Tani K, Sugiyama H, Hibino H, Izawa K, Tanabe T, Nakazaki Y, Ishii H,
Ohashi J, Hohjoh H, Iseki T, Tojo A, Nakamura Y, Tanioka Y, Tokunaga K, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Therapy, Advanced Clinical Research Center (ACRC), The
Institute of Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

A New World monkey, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), will be used as a
preclinical animal model to study the feasibility of cell and gene therapy
targeting immunological and hematological disorders. For elucidating the
immunogenetic background of common marmoset to further studies, in the present
study, polymorphisms of MHC-DRB genes in this species were examined. Twenty-one
Caja-DRB exon 2 alleles, including seven new ones, were detected by means of
subcloning and the polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation
polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) methods followed by nucleotide sequencing. Based on the
alignment of these allele sequences, we designed two pairs of specific primers
and established a PCR-SSCP method for DNA-based histocompatibility typing of the 
common marmoset. According to the family segregation data and phylogenetic
analyses, we presumed that Caja-DRB alleles could be classified into five
different loci. Southern blotting analysis also supported the existence of
multiple DRB loci. The patterns of nucleotide substitutions suggests that
positive selection operates in the antigen-recognition sites of Caja-DRB genes.

DOI: 10.1007/s002390010083 
PMID: 11029066  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3251. Gene. 2000 Sep 19;255(2):335-45.

Progressive inactivation of the haploid expressed gene for the sperm-specific
endozepine-like peptide (ELP) through primate evolution.

Ivell R(1), Pusch W, Balvers M, Valentin M, Walther N, Weinbauer G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg, Grandweg 
64, 22529, Hamburg, Germany. ivell@ihf.de

The endozepine-like peptide (ELP) is a novel intracellular molecule which is
expressed in high amounts at both mRNA and protein levels very specifically in
late haploid male germ cells. It is closely related to the ubiquitous acyl-CoA
binding protein, is highly conserved, shares a similar ability to bind mid-long
chain acyl-CoA, and is thus likely to be involved in mature sperm metabolism.
While it has been characterized from diverse mammals, it has so far not been
possible to identify an equivalent molecule in the primate testis. Using a PCR
approach, combined with cDNA cloning and Northern hybridization, testicular
transcripts and/or genomic DNA were analysed for different primate species,
including human. In the marmoset and cynomolgus macaque normally structured
transcripts appear to be expressed, though at a low level. In the human testis,
two rare transcripts were characterized, hELP1 and hELP2, the products of
independent duplicated genes. Both transcripts were longer than in non-mammalian 
species, included frame-shift mutations and substantial sequence insertions,
preventing the translation of a sensible protein. Genomic PCR analysis of three
anthropoid species, chimpanzee, gorilla and orangutan, showed the presence of a
similarly mutated hELP1 gene. Only in the gorilla was a hELP2 gene identified,
apparently lacking the frame-shift mutation, and thus potentially able to give
rise to a functional ELP protein. Taken together, these results show that during 
primate evolution there has been a progressive inactivation of the ELP gene,
initially with a down-regulation in lower primates, and subsequently with
inactivating mutations in the open reading frame. At some time during simian
evolution prior to these mutations there has been a gene duplication, though this
second gene has also become inactivated in humans. In its pattern of evolution
the ELP gene shows similarities with the MDC/fertilin family, whose members are
also considered essential components of haploid sperm in non-primates, but which 
are progressively inactivated in anthropoids and humans. We should like to
speculate that the established subfertility of the human male may not be a recent
event, but the consequence of a longer evolutionary process whereby primates have
traded off absolute fertility against social or sexual advantages.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(00)00317-6 
PMID: 11024294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

