

3251. Gene. 2000 Sep 19;255(2):335-45.

Progressive inactivation of the haploid expressed gene for the sperm-specific
endozepine-like peptide (ELP) through primate evolution.

Ivell R(1), Pusch W, Balvers M, Valentin M, Walther N, Weinbauer G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg, Grandweg 
64, 22529, Hamburg, Germany. ivell@ihf.de

The endozepine-like peptide (ELP) is a novel intracellular molecule which is
expressed in high amounts at both mRNA and protein levels very specifically in
late haploid male germ cells. It is closely related to the ubiquitous acyl-CoA
binding protein, is highly conserved, shares a similar ability to bind mid-long
chain acyl-CoA, and is thus likely to be involved in mature sperm metabolism.
While it has been characterized from diverse mammals, it has so far not been
possible to identify an equivalent molecule in the primate testis. Using a PCR
approach, combined with cDNA cloning and Northern hybridization, testicular
transcripts and/or genomic DNA were analysed for different primate species,
including human. In the marmoset and cynomolgus macaque normally structured
transcripts appear to be expressed, though at a low level. In the human testis,
two rare transcripts were characterized, hELP1 and hELP2, the products of
independent duplicated genes. Both transcripts were longer than in non-mammalian 
species, included frame-shift mutations and substantial sequence insertions,
preventing the translation of a sensible protein. Genomic PCR analysis of three
anthropoid species, chimpanzee, gorilla and orangutan, showed the presence of a
similarly mutated hELP1 gene. Only in the gorilla was a hELP2 gene identified,
apparently lacking the frame-shift mutation, and thus potentially able to give
rise to a functional ELP protein. Taken together, these results show that during 
primate evolution there has been a progressive inactivation of the ELP gene,
initially with a down-regulation in lower primates, and subsequently with
inactivating mutations in the open reading frame. At some time during simian
evolution prior to these mutations there has been a gene duplication, though this
second gene has also become inactivated in humans. In its pattern of evolution
the ELP gene shows similarities with the MDC/fertilin family, whose members are
also considered essential components of haploid sperm in non-primates, but which 
are progressively inactivated in anthropoids and humans. We should like to
speculate that the established subfertility of the human male may not be a recent
event, but the consequence of a longer evolutionary process whereby primates have
traded off absolute fertility against social or sexual advantages.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(00)00317-6 
PMID: 11024294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3252. J Med Chem. 2000 Oct 5;43(20):3596-613.

Synthesis and SAR of new 5-phenyl-3-ureido-1,5-benzodiazepines as
cholecystokinin-B receptor antagonists.

Ursini A(1), Capelli AM, Carr RA, Cassar√† P, Corsi M, Curcuruto O, Curotto G, Dal
Cin M, Davalli S, Donati D, Feriani A, Finch H, Finizia G, Gaviraghi G, Marien M,
Pentassuglia G, Polinelli S, Ratti E, Reggiani AM, Tarzia G, Tedesco G,
Tranquillini ME, Trist DG, Van Amsterdam FT.

Author information: 
(1)Glaxo Wellcome Medicines Research Centre, Via A. Fleming 4, 37135 Verona,
Italy. au4438@glaxowellcome.co.uk

Erratum in
    J Med Chem 2000 Dec 28;43(26):5057. Reggiani A [corrected to Reggiani AM].

A series of 5-phenyl-3-ureidobenzodiazepine-2,4-diones was synthesized and
evaluated as cholecystokinin-B (CCK-B) receptor antagonists. Structure-activity
relationship (SAR) studies revealed the importance of the N-1 substituent for
potent and selective CCK-B affinity. Addition of substituents at the urea side
chain provided in some cases more potent compounds. Moreover the introduction of 
bulky substituents such as adamantylmethyl at N-1 and resolution of the racemic
ureas resulted in our lead compound GV150013.

DOI: 10.1021/jm990967h 
PMID: 11020274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

