

3252. J Med Chem. 2000 Oct 5;43(20):3596-613.

Synthesis and SAR of new 5-phenyl-3-ureido-1,5-benzodiazepines as
cholecystokinin-B receptor antagonists.

Ursini A(1), Capelli AM, Carr RA, Cassar√† P, Corsi M, Curcuruto O, Curotto G, Dal
Cin M, Davalli S, Donati D, Feriani A, Finch H, Finizia G, Gaviraghi G, Marien M,
Pentassuglia G, Polinelli S, Ratti E, Reggiani AM, Tarzia G, Tedesco G,
Tranquillini ME, Trist DG, Van Amsterdam FT.

Author information: 
(1)Glaxo Wellcome Medicines Research Centre, Via A. Fleming 4, 37135 Verona,
Italy. au4438@glaxowellcome.co.uk

Erratum in
    J Med Chem 2000 Dec 28;43(26):5057. Reggiani A [corrected to Reggiani AM].

A series of 5-phenyl-3-ureidobenzodiazepine-2,4-diones was synthesized and
evaluated as cholecystokinin-B (CCK-B) receptor antagonists. Structure-activity
relationship (SAR) studies revealed the importance of the N-1 substituent for
potent and selective CCK-B affinity. Addition of substituents at the urea side
chain provided in some cases more potent compounds. Moreover the introduction of 
bulky substituents such as adamantylmethyl at N-1 and resolution of the racemic
ureas resulted in our lead compound GV150013.

DOI: 10.1021/jm990967h 
PMID: 11020274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3253. Vis Neurosci. 2000 Jul-Aug;17(4):529-49.

Projections of the superior colliculus to subdivisions of the inferior pulvinar
in New World and Old World monkeys.

Stepniewska I(1), Ql HX, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37240, USA.

Patterns of terminals labeled after WGA-HRP injections in the superior colliculus
(SC) in squirrel monkeys and macaque monkeys, and after DiI application in
marmosets, were related to the architecture of the pulvinar and dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN). In all studied species, the SC projects densely to two 
architectonic subdivisions of the inferior pulvinar, the posterior inferior
pulvinar nucleus (PIp) and central medial inferior pulvinar nucleus (PIcM). These
projection zones expressed substance P. Thus, sections processed for substance P 
reveal SC termination zones in the inferior pulvinar. The medial subdivision of
the inferior pulvinar, PIm, which is known to project to visual area MT, does not
receive a significant collicular input. Injections in MT of a squirrel monkey
revealed no overlap between SC terminals and neurons projecting to area MT. Thus,
PIm is not the significant relay station of visual input from the SC to MT. The
SC also sends an input to the LGN, however, this projection is sparser than the
input directed to pulvinar.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800174048 
PMID: 11016573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

