

3253. Vis Neurosci. 2000 Jul-Aug;17(4):529-49.

Projections of the superior colliculus to subdivisions of the inferior pulvinar
in New World and Old World monkeys.

Stepniewska I(1), Ql HX, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37240, USA.

Patterns of terminals labeled after WGA-HRP injections in the superior colliculus
(SC) in squirrel monkeys and macaque monkeys, and after DiI application in
marmosets, were related to the architecture of the pulvinar and dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN). In all studied species, the SC projects densely to two 
architectonic subdivisions of the inferior pulvinar, the posterior inferior
pulvinar nucleus (PIp) and central medial inferior pulvinar nucleus (PIcM). These
projection zones expressed substance P. Thus, sections processed for substance P 
reveal SC termination zones in the inferior pulvinar. The medial subdivision of
the inferior pulvinar, PIm, which is known to project to visual area MT, does not
receive a significant collicular input. Injections in MT of a squirrel monkey
revealed no overlap between SC terminals and neurons projecting to area MT. Thus,
PIm is not the significant relay station of visual input from the SC to MT. The
SC also sends an input to the LGN, however, this projection is sparser than the
input directed to pulvinar.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800174048 
PMID: 11016573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3254. Int J Androl. 2000 Oct;23(5):266-77.

Marmoset spermatogenesis: organizational similarities to the human.

Millar MR(1), Sharpe RM, Weinbauer GF, Fraser HM, Saunders PT.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology,
Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate of high
fecundity, is widely used in reproductive research. The aim of the present study 
was to determine the organization of the germ cells within the seminiferous
epithelium, the duration of the spermatogenic cycle and the number of
spermatogonial mitoses. Antibodies to cAMP response element modulator (CREM) and 
proliferating nuclear cell antigen (PCNA) and a cRNA directed against protamine
P2 and morphological criteria were used to discriminate between stages of the
spermatogenic cycle. Plastic sections were used to document the cell associations
present in each of the nine stages of spermatogenesis. Up to five such stages
could be observed within individual cross-sections of seminiferous tubules. Based
on the pattern of incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine the length of the
spermatogenic cycle was estimated to be 10 days and the duration of
spermatogenesis to be 37 days. Four mitotic divisions were noted in
spermatogonia. It is concluded that the organization of spermatogenesis in the
marmoset has similarities to the human ('helical') and this makes the marmoset a 
suitable model for studies relevant to human testicular function.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2605.2000.00236.x 
PMID: 11012784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

