

3254. Int J Androl. 2000 Oct;23(5):266-77.

Marmoset spermatogenesis: organizational similarities to the human.

Millar MR(1), Sharpe RM, Weinbauer GF, Fraser HM, Saunders PT.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology,
Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate of high
fecundity, is widely used in reproductive research. The aim of the present study 
was to determine the organization of the germ cells within the seminiferous
epithelium, the duration of the spermatogenic cycle and the number of
spermatogonial mitoses. Antibodies to cAMP response element modulator (CREM) and 
proliferating nuclear cell antigen (PCNA) and a cRNA directed against protamine
P2 and morphological criteria were used to discriminate between stages of the
spermatogenic cycle. Plastic sections were used to document the cell associations
present in each of the nine stages of spermatogenesis. Up to five such stages
could be observed within individual cross-sections of seminiferous tubules. Based
on the pattern of incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine the length of the
spermatogenic cycle was estimated to be 10 days and the duration of
spermatogenesis to be 37 days. Four mitotic divisions were noted in
spermatogonia. It is concluded that the organization of spermatogenesis in the
marmoset has similarities to the human ('helical') and this makes the marmoset a 
suitable model for studies relevant to human testicular function.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2605.2000.00236.x 
PMID: 11012784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3255. Mov Disord. 2000 Sep;15(5):804-12.

Endogenous dopaminergic tone and dopamine agonist action.

Treseder SA(1), Smith LA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's, and St. Thomas's
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, UK.

Dopamine receptor agonists provide symptomatic relief in the early stages of
Parkinson's disease, but with disease progression, their efficacy decreases. The 
reason behind this decrease in effectiveness is unknown, but maximal efficacy may
be dependent on endogenous dopaminergic tone to provide stimulation of D1 and D2 
receptor subtypes. Therefore, we have investigated the effects of the tyrosine
hydroxylase inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT) on the actions of D1, D2,
and D1/D2 agonists and levodopa (L-dopa) in common marmosets treated with 1
-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Administration of AMPT alone further
increased motor disability and decreased locomotor activity. Administration of
L-dopa reversed motor disability and increased locomotor activity, and this
reversal was not affected by previous AMPT treatment. The D1 agonist A-77636 and 
the D2 agonist quinpirole reversed motor deficits, but these effects were
markedly inhibited by previous AMPT treatment. Administration of quinpirole with 
A-77636 produced a reversal of motor deficits that was more resistant to AMPT
pretreatment than was the effect produced by quinpirole or A-77636 alone. These
data suggest that D1 and D2 receptor stimulation are required for dopamine
receptor agonists to produce a maximal antiparkinsonian response. The reversal of
motor deficits produced by the mixed D1/D2 agonist apomorphine was more resistant
to AMPT treatment than that produced by quinpirole or A-77636. However, the motor
effects of A-77636 plus quinpirole and of apomorphine were still affected by AMPT
treatment. This suggests that loss of tyrosine hydroxylase activity may also
alter motor activity through inhibition of endogenous L-dopa or norepinephrine
synthesis, because both are also involved in the genesis of motor activity.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8257(200009)15:5<804::aid-mds1007>3.0.co;2-2 
PMID: 11009183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

