

3255. Mov Disord. 2000 Sep;15(5):804-12.

Endogenous dopaminergic tone and dopamine agonist action.

Treseder SA(1), Smith LA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's, and St. Thomas's
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College London, UK.

Dopamine receptor agonists provide symptomatic relief in the early stages of
Parkinson's disease, but with disease progression, their efficacy decreases. The 
reason behind this decrease in effectiveness is unknown, but maximal efficacy may
be dependent on endogenous dopaminergic tone to provide stimulation of D1 and D2 
receptor subtypes. Therefore, we have investigated the effects of the tyrosine
hydroxylase inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT) on the actions of D1, D2,
and D1/D2 agonists and levodopa (L-dopa) in common marmosets treated with 1
-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Administration of AMPT alone further
increased motor disability and decreased locomotor activity. Administration of
L-dopa reversed motor disability and increased locomotor activity, and this
reversal was not affected by previous AMPT treatment. The D1 agonist A-77636 and 
the D2 agonist quinpirole reversed motor deficits, but these effects were
markedly inhibited by previous AMPT treatment. Administration of quinpirole with 
A-77636 produced a reversal of motor deficits that was more resistant to AMPT
pretreatment than was the effect produced by quinpirole or A-77636 alone. These
data suggest that D1 and D2 receptor stimulation are required for dopamine
receptor agonists to produce a maximal antiparkinsonian response. The reversal of
motor deficits produced by the mixed D1/D2 agonist apomorphine was more resistant
to AMPT treatment than that produced by quinpirole or A-77636. However, the motor
effects of A-77636 plus quinpirole and of apomorphine were still affected by AMPT
treatment. This suggests that loss of tyrosine hydroxylase activity may also
alter motor activity through inhibition of endogenous L-dopa or norepinephrine
synthesis, because both are also involved in the genesis of motor activity.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8257(200009)15:5<804::aid-mds1007>3.0.co;2-2 
PMID: 11009183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3256. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2000;107(7):799-814.

Naturally occurring and experimentally induced beta-amyloid deposits in the
brains of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Maclean CJ(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM, Mori H.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Cerebral beta-amyloid occurs in elderly animals of some species and in
Alzheimer's disease. Previously, we injected 3 young marmosets intracerebrally
with brain tissue from a patient with Alzheimer's disease. Six years later, when 
the monkeys were middle aged, we found moderate numbers of intracerebral plaques 
and cerebrovascular deposits containing beta-amyloid. We have re-examined these
brains and those of 10 other marmosets injected with brain homogenate containing 
beta-amyloid, and have found some beta-amyloid in animals injected more than 4
years previously. We have found beta-amyloid in 4 of 26 elderly control
marmosets, but not in 9 young to middle-aged control marmosets. The beta-amyloid 
found in middle aged marmosets injected with Alzheimer brain tissue was,
therefore, not a consequence of their age. Deposits in large cerebral vessels in 
elderly marmosets, and in marmosets previously injected with brain tissue
containing beta-amyloid, reacted with antibodies to Abeta and Abeta1-40; plaques 
and microvessel deposits reacted with antibodies to Abeta and Abeta1-42.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020070060 
PMID: 11005545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

