

3257. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2000 Sep 25;167(1-2):89-97.

Sequence and functional characterisation of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) prolactin receptor: comparative homology with the human long-form
prolactin receptor.

Dalrymple A(1), Edery M, Jabbour HN.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, 37 Chalmers Street, EH3 9ET, Edinburgh, UK.

This study demonstrates the cloning and in-vitro characterisation of the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) prolactin receptor cDNA. The marmoset prolactin
receptor cDNA was generated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction
using adrenal RNA and primers designed from prolactin receptor conserved regions.
Sequence analysis predicts a mature protein of 598 amino acids exclusive of the
24 amino acid signal peptide. The marmoset prolactin receptor cDNA shares 93 and 
61% base pair, and 89 and 61% amino acid sequence homologies with the long form
human and rat prolactin receptor cDNA, respectively. The marmoset prolactin
receptor cDNA sequence retains all the receptor sequences that have been shown
previously to be essential for ligand binding, structural integrity and signal
transduction. Transfection of human 293 fibroblast cells with the marmoset
prolactin receptor cDNA (three independent experiments) confirmed the expression 
of a receptor that has high binding affinity to human growth hormone
(K(a)=3.6+/-0.07 nM(-1) and B(max)=7.55+/-2.06x10(-11) M) and human prolactin
(K(a)=3.1+/-0.12 nM(-1) and B(max)=2.87+/-0.66x10(-11) M). Functionality of the
receptor was assessed by co-transfection of 293 fibroblast cells with marmoset
prolactin receptor cDNA and the Jak2 cDNA, or marmoset prolactin receptor and a
Stat5 responsive element linked to the luciferase coding sequence. Incubation of 
the cells with 18 nM ovine prolactin resulted in rapid phosphorylation of Jak2 as
ascertained by Western blotting. In addition, the marmoset prolactin receptor
cDNA led to 9.06+/-0.47-fold induction of luciferase gene activity. This was
comparable with the induction observed following transfection with the human
prolactin receptor cDNA (8.55+/-0. 5-fold). In-vivo prolactin receptor expression
in the marmoset monkey was assessed by ribonuclease protection assay and detected
in a number of tissues including female reproductive organs. These data confirm
the cloning and functionality of the marmoset prolactin receptor cDNA. The
marmoset prolactin receptor shares a high sequence homology with the long-form
human prolactin receptor, and both receptors bind hormones with comparable
affinity and confer a similar intracellular response. The marmoset monkey may
provide a useful tool to investigate the role of prolactin in primate
reproduction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0303-7207(00)00285-9 
PMID: 11000523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3258. Arch Oral Biol. 2000 Nov;45(11):987-95.

Age changes in the cells of the intra-articular disc of the temporomandibular
joints of rats and marmosets.

Berkovitz BK(1), Pacy J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Anatomy, Cell and Human Biology, GKT School of Biomedical
Sciences, Henriette Raphael House, Guy's Campus, London Bridge, SE1 1UL, London, 
UK. barry.berkovitz@kcl.ac.uk

Cells in the intra-articular disc of the temporomandibular joint were studied
ultrastructurally at three different ages to investigate any age changes. Rats
aged 2, 15.5 months, and 2.5 years, and marmosets aged 21 months, 7 years, and
between 10.5 and 14 years were studied. In the first two age groups of the rat
and the first of the marmoset, the cells were generally rounded and had moderate 
amounts of rough endoplasmic reticulum and other organelles associated with
protein synthesis and secretion. Many cells had conspicuous amounts of
microfilamentous material and cell membranes were closely applied to the collagen
fibrils of the extracellular matrix. Occasionally, a narrow, irregular space
containing microfilamentous material lay adjacent to the cell membrane. In the
2.5-year-old rats and the two older age groups of marmosets, cells with
chondrocyte-like morphology were present. These cells were surrounded by a
conspicuous pericellular matrix devoid of collagen fibrils and composed of
microfilamentous material embedded in an amorphous ground substance. They
resembled cells described in fibrocartilage from other sites, but differed from
chondrocytes in hyaline cartilage by lacking a pericellular capsule. Thus, rats
and marmosets both show cellular age changes in the intra-articular disc of the
mandibular joint, which can be considered as changing from fibrous to
fibrocartilaginous with age, a condition similar to that reported in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9969(00)00067-4 
PMID: 11000385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

