

3258. Arch Oral Biol. 2000 Nov;45(11):987-95.

Age changes in the cells of the intra-articular disc of the temporomandibular
joints of rats and marmosets.

Berkovitz BK(1), Pacy J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Anatomy, Cell and Human Biology, GKT School of Biomedical
Sciences, Henriette Raphael House, Guy's Campus, London Bridge, SE1 1UL, London, 
UK. barry.berkovitz@kcl.ac.uk

Cells in the intra-articular disc of the temporomandibular joint were studied
ultrastructurally at three different ages to investigate any age changes. Rats
aged 2, 15.5 months, and 2.5 years, and marmosets aged 21 months, 7 years, and
between 10.5 and 14 years were studied. In the first two age groups of the rat
and the first of the marmoset, the cells were generally rounded and had moderate 
amounts of rough endoplasmic reticulum and other organelles associated with
protein synthesis and secretion. Many cells had conspicuous amounts of
microfilamentous material and cell membranes were closely applied to the collagen
fibrils of the extracellular matrix. Occasionally, a narrow, irregular space
containing microfilamentous material lay adjacent to the cell membrane. In the
2.5-year-old rats and the two older age groups of marmosets, cells with
chondrocyte-like morphology were present. These cells were surrounded by a
conspicuous pericellular matrix devoid of collagen fibrils and composed of
microfilamentous material embedded in an amorphous ground substance. They
resembled cells described in fibrocartilage from other sites, but differed from
chondrocytes in hyaline cartilage by lacking a pericellular capsule. Thus, rats
and marmosets both show cellular age changes in the intra-articular disc of the
mandibular joint, which can be considered as changing from fibrous to
fibrocartilaginous with age, a condition similar to that reported in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9969(00)00067-4 
PMID: 11000385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3259. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2000 Sep-Oct;95(5):609-10.

Rabies in tamarins (Callithrix jacchus) in the state of Ceará, Brazil, a distinct
viral variant?

Batista-Morais N(1), Neilson-Rolim B, Matos-Chaves HH, de Brito-Neto J,
Maria-da-Silva L.

Author information: 
(1)Secretaria Estadual de Saúde do Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, 60060-440, Brasil.
neliom@sesa.ce.gov.br

Presently, the State of Ceará reports the largest percentage of human rabies
cases originated from wild animals in Brazil, transmitted by the principal simian
species, the tamarin (Callithrix jacchus), found in various locations throughout 
the State, but concentrated along the coast. Epidemiological studies indicated
that possibly the same virus caused the deaths in humans and non-human primates. 
This rabies virus seem to be different from all other identified so far.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762000000500003 
PMID: 10998207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

