

3259. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2000 Sep-Oct;95(5):609-10.

Rabies in tamarins (Callithrix jacchus) in the state of Ceará, Brazil, a distinct
viral variant?

Batista-Morais N(1), Neilson-Rolim B, Matos-Chaves HH, de Brito-Neto J,
Maria-da-Silva L.

Author information: 
(1)Secretaria Estadual de Saúde do Ceará, Fortaleza, CE, 60060-440, Brasil.
neliom@sesa.ce.gov.br

Presently, the State of Ceará reports the largest percentage of human rabies
cases originated from wild animals in Brazil, transmitted by the principal simian
species, the tamarin (Callithrix jacchus), found in various locations throughout 
the State, but concentrated along the coast. Epidemiological studies indicated
that possibly the same virus caused the deaths in humans and non-human primates. 
This rabies virus seem to be different from all other identified so far.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762000000500003 
PMID: 10998207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3260. J Comp Psychol. 2000 Sep;114(3):263-71.

Development of hand preferences in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and effects of 
aging.

Hook MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of New England, Armidale, New South
Wales, Australia. mhook@mdanderson.org

The authors investigated the development of unimanual hand use and hand
preferences during feeding in 15 marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), ages birth to
51-70 months. Bimanual hand use was common at 1-2 months, but by 5-8 months
unimanual holding had developed and so had significant hand preferences. Half of 
the marmosets preferred to pick up and take food to the mouth with the left hand,
and half preferred the right hand. Individuals maintained the same hand
preference at all ages examined. Significant relationships were also found
between the postures adopted during feeding and the direction of hand preferences
displayed by juvenile marmosets. There was a positive correlation between
increased suspension and increased left-hand preference, and a negative
correlation between increased feeding in a tripedal posture and increased
left-hand preference. These results are discussed in terms of motor development
and hemispheric specialization.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.114.3.263 
PMID: 10994842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

