

3262. Exp Neurol. 2000 Oct;165(2):306-26.

Cyto- and chemoarchitecture of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wu CK(1), Hersh LB, Geula C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative and Aging Research, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

The cyto- and chemoarchitecture of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCN) was
investigated in the lower primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). A
large population of magnocellular, hyperchromic, and choline acetyltransferase
(ChAT)-positive neurons was detected in the marmoset basal forebrain. The
distribution of these neurons was similar to those in higher primates. Thus,
ChAT-positive neurons were observed in the medial septum (Ch2), the vertical
(Ch2) and horizontal (Ch3) limbs of the diagonal band of Broca, and the nucleus
basalis of Meynert (Ch4). The Ch4 complex was relatively well differentiated and 
displayed distinct sectors. We detected anterior (Ch4a, with a medial and a
lateral subdivision), intermediate (Ch4i, with a dorsal and a ventral
subdivision), and posterior (Ch4p) sectors in the marmoset Ch4. The Ch4i was
relatively small while the Ch4p was large. Similar to the rodent, the marmoset
Ch1 extended quite a distance posteriorly, and the Ch4p displayed a major
interstitial component distributed within the globus pallidus, its medullary
laminae, and the internal capsule. Virtually all of the marmoset BFCN displayed
acetylcholinesterase activity, and low affinity (p75(NTR)) and high affinity
(Trk) neurotrophin receptor immunoreactivity. A majority contained
immunoreactivity for calbindin-D(28K) and calretinin. Many of the Ch4 neurons
also displayed tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. The BFCN lacked galanin
immunoreactivity, but were innervated by galanin-positive fibers. None of the
marmoset BFCN were NADPH-d-positive. Thus, the BFCN display major anatomical and 
biochemical differences in the marmoset when compared with higher primates. The
marmoset BFCN also display many characteristics common to other primates. This
fact, combined with the relatively short life span of the marmoset, indicates
that this species may be ideal for studies of age-related changes in the BFCN.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7468 
PMID: 10993691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3263. Am J Primatol. 2000 Sep;52(1):31-46.

Post-conflict affiliation in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Westlund K(1), Ljungberg T, Borefelt U, Abrahamsson C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Ethology, Department of Zoology, Stockholm University, Sweden.
Karolina.Westlund@zoologi.su.se

Post-conflict (PC) affiliation has been demonstrated in a number of Old World
monkeys and apes, but very little is known about the occurrence of the phenomenon
in New World monkeys. This study examined 282 PC interactions after spontaneous
conflicts around feeding time in two family groups (N = 12) of captive common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus jacchus. We found an overall corrected conciliatory
tendency of 31%. Selective attraction was seen: former opponents met
significantly more often in PCs than in matched controls (MCs) (27% and 16%,
respectively). There was no difference in the occurrence of PC affiliation
between dyads consisting of parent-offspring constellations compared to
offspring-offspring constellations. PC affiliative behaviors were seen in the
first three minutes following conflict termination, and consisted mainly of
proximity, play invitations, and food transfer. Notably, former opponents
remained within arm's reach after 17% of conflicts. Affiliation was more likely
to follow after conflicts involving play issues. The functional importance of the
PC affiliation in marmosets remains to be examined.

DOI: 10.1002/1098-2345(200009)52:1<31::AID-AJP3>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 10993136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

