

3265. Genome. 2000 Aug;43(4):642-8.

Evolution of an Alu DNA element of type Sx in the lineage of primates and the
origin of an associated tetranucleotide microsatellite.

Crouau-Roy B(1), Clisson I.

Author information: 
(1)Génétique des populations, CESAC, UMR C5576, Toulouse, France. bcrouau@cict.fr

A 394-bp DNA fragment, which in human is on chromosome 6 near the MOG (myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein) gene and encompasses an Alu element and an
associated tetranucleotide microsatellite, was sequenced from a large range of
primate species to follow its evolutionary divergence and to understand the
origin of the microsatellite. This Alu element is found at the same orthologous
position in all primates sequenced, but the tetranucleotide repeat is present
only in Catarrhini between the 3'-oligo(dA) of the Alu element and the 3'
flanking direct repeat. Little intraspecific variation was found. Sequence
identity values for this orthologous primate Alu averaged 90% (82-99%) with
transitions comprising between 70% and 100% of the observed nucleotide
substitutions. Although the insertion of the Alu element predates the separation 
of these species, the original sequence of the site of integration can still be
identified. This identification of the direct repeats suggests an active role of 
the oligo(dA) of the Alu element in the origin of the tetranucleotide repeats.
The microsatellite probably appeared after the insertion of the Alu element,
early in the lineage leading to the common ancestor of the hominoids and the Old 
World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1139/g00-033 
PMID: 10984176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3266. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2000 Jun;31(2):231-5.

Toxoplasmosis in golden-headed lion tamarins (Leontopithecus chrysomelas) and
emperor marmosets (Saguinus imperator) in captivity.

Epiphanio S(1), Guimarães MA, Fedullo DL, Correa SH, Catão-Dias JL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Patologia, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária e Zootecnia, da
Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil.

From 1991 to 1995, eight New World nonhuman primates of the family Callitrichidae
belonging to the collection of Fundacão Parque Zoologico de São Paulo died of
toxoplasmosis. Of the eight affected nonhuman primates, four were Leontopithecus 
chrysomelas (one male, three females) and four were Saguinus imperator (two
males, two females). The most commonly affected organs were the lungs, liver, and
lymph nodes, with hemorrhagic and necrotic lesions. Histopathologic examination
revealed protozoa that were morphologically consistent with Toxoplasma gondii.
Immunohistochemical assays were strongly positive for T. gondii.

DOI: 10.1638/1042-7260(2000)031[0231:TIGHLT]2.0.CO;2 
PMID: 10982139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

