

3266. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2000 Jun;31(2):231-5.

Toxoplasmosis in golden-headed lion tamarins (Leontopithecus chrysomelas) and
emperor marmosets (Saguinus imperator) in captivity.

Epiphanio S(1), Guimarães MA, Fedullo DL, Correa SH, Catão-Dias JL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Patologia, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária e Zootecnia, da
Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil.

From 1991 to 1995, eight New World nonhuman primates of the family Callitrichidae
belonging to the collection of Fundacão Parque Zoologico de São Paulo died of
toxoplasmosis. Of the eight affected nonhuman primates, four were Leontopithecus 
chrysomelas (one male, three females) and four were Saguinus imperator (two
males, two females). The most commonly affected organs were the lungs, liver, and
lymph nodes, with hemorrhagic and necrotic lesions. Histopathologic examination
revealed protozoa that were morphologically consistent with Toxoplasma gondii.
Immunohistochemical assays were strongly positive for T. gondii.

DOI: 10.1638/1042-7260(2000)031[0231:TIGHLT]2.0.CO;2 
PMID: 10982139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3267. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2000 Jul;44(1):30-40.

Endocrine-immune interaction: alteractions in immune function resulting from
neonatal treatment with a GnRH antagonist and seasonality in male primates.

Mann DR(1), Akinbami MA, Lunn SF, Fraser HM, Gould KG, Ansari AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia
30310-1495, USA. mann@msm.edu

PROBLEM: The effect of neonatal gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist 
(Ant) treatment and seasonality on immune system development and function was
investigated in male primates.
METHOD OF STUDY: Neonatal male rhesus monkeys and marmosets were treated with
Ant, and its effect on immune system morphology, circulating lymphocyte subsets, 
and cell- and humorally-mediated immune responses was assessed during
development. In adult rhesus monkeys, we correlated seasonal changes in immune
function with circannual fluctuations in immunoactive hormones.
RESULTS: In neonatal marmosets, Ant reduced the number of B cells and T cells in 
the thymic medulla and T cells in the periarterial lymphatic sheaths (PALS) of
the spleen. Ant also altered the development of, but did not permanently impair, 
the proliferative index (PI) of blood lymphocytes to mitogens. In vitro treatment
of control lymphocytes with GnRH analogues altered their response to these
proliferative agents. In neonatal rhesus monkeys, Ant treatment increased the
frequency of clinical problems, lowered circulating levels of lymphocytes, total 
T cells, CD8+ T cells and B cells, and altered the PI of lymphocytes to mitogens.
As adults, the cell- and humorally-mediated immune responses remained impaired.
We also documented seasonal fluctuations in the prevalence of diseases,
circulating immune cells and immune function in rhesus monkeys. The number of
cases of campylobacteriosis and shigellosis was lowest in the winter and highest 
in the spring. Circulating numbers of white blood cells (WBC) and neutrophils and
the PI of lymphocytes to mitogens were higher in the winter than in the summer.
Natural killer cell activity also varied with season. Cortisol and leptin
secretion exhibited circannual rhythms, rising in concert with decreasing
photoperiod and increasing testicular activity in the fall. Conversely, prolactin
levels declined with decreasing photoperiod and then rose in the spring.
CONCLUSION: Neonatal exposure of male primates to Ant appears to alter early
postnatal programming of immune function. In the rhesus monkey, immune function
shows seasonal fluctuations that may be driven by circannual changes in the
secretion of immunoactive hormones.

DOI: 10.1111/j.8755-8920.2000.440105.x 
PMID: 10976810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

