

3268. Anim Behav. 2000 Aug;60(2):195-202.

True imitation in marmosets.

Voelkl B(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, University of Vienna

Marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, observed a demonstrator removing the lids from a
series of plastic canisters to obtain a mealworm. When subsequently allowed
access to the canisters, marmosets that observed a demonstrator using its hands
to remove the lids used only their hands. In contrast, marmosets that observed a 
demonstrator using its mouth also used their mouth to remove the lids. Since hand
and mouth demonstrators brought about identical changes in the canisters, the
differential test behaviour of the observer groups suggests that they learned
about the demonstrator's behaviour. Furthermore, marmosets that had not been
given the opportunity to observe a demonstrator prior to testing had a low
probability of mouth opening, even if the canisters were previously opened by a
mouth-opening demonstrator in an olfactory control experiment. Corroborating
Bugnyar & Huber's (1997, Animal Behaviour, 54, 817-831) earlier findings, our
results provide further evidence that marmosets can imitate. Copyright 2000 The
Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.

DOI: 10.1006/anbe.2000.1457 
PMID: 10973721 


3269. Arch Oral Biol. 2000 Oct;45(10):879-87.

An immunohistological study of cytokeratin 20 in human and mammalian oral
epithelium.

Barrett AW(1), Cort EM, Patel P, Berkovitz BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Pathology, Eastman Dental Institute for Oral Healthcare
Sciences, University College London, 256 Grays Inn Road, WC1X 8LD, London, UK.
A.Barrett@eastman.ucl.ac.uk

Cytokeratin (CK) 20 is a low molecular-weight intermediate filament reportedly
expressed only by benign and malignant gastrointestinal epithelium, urothelium
and Merkel cells. The main aims here were to map its expression in normal oral
mucosa of humans and other mammals, and to determine whether it was expressed by 
abnormal human oral epithelium. Salivary and odontogenic epithelium were also
analysed. An immunoperoxidase method was used on wax-embedded and cryostat
sections. In addition, double-labelling experiments were undertaken to determine 
the association between CK 20 expression and that of CK 8/18 or S100 protein.
Normal human oral mucosa from four sites, together with abdominal skin, was
studied in autopsy samples from 32 individuals. CK 20-positive, basally situated,
round or angular cells, consistent with Merkel cells, were recorded in 24/32
(75.0%) samples of mandibular gingiva, 25/32 (78.1%) samples of hard palate, 7/32
(21.9%) samples of buccal mucosa, 0/32 samples of lateral border of tongue, and
2/32 (6.3%) samples of abdominal skin. Double-labelling showed that all CK
20-positive Merkel cells also expressed CK 8/18 and S100. The only other cells to
express CK 20 were human taste buds. There was no expression by dysplastic or
invasive oral epithelium from biopsy samples. Colonic mucosa showed luminal-cell 
positivity in man, marmoset, ferret, rabbit and guinea-pig, but oral mucosa was
universally negative in non-human species. It is concluded that in oral mucosa CK
20 is a specific marker of Merkel cells and taste buds, that Merkel cells are
more frequently present in keratinized than non-keratinized oral mucosa, that CK 
20-positive Merkel cells are also S100-positive, that there may be interspecies
variations in CK 20 polypeptide composition and that, by contrast to urothelium, 
CK 20 has no value in the diagnosis of oral epithelial dysplasia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9969(00)00050-9 
PMID: 10973561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

