

3269. Arch Oral Biol. 2000 Oct;45(10):879-87.

An immunohistological study of cytokeratin 20 in human and mammalian oral
epithelium.

Barrett AW(1), Cort EM, Patel P, Berkovitz BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Pathology, Eastman Dental Institute for Oral Healthcare
Sciences, University College London, 256 Grays Inn Road, WC1X 8LD, London, UK.
A.Barrett@eastman.ucl.ac.uk

Cytokeratin (CK) 20 is a low molecular-weight intermediate filament reportedly
expressed only by benign and malignant gastrointestinal epithelium, urothelium
and Merkel cells. The main aims here were to map its expression in normal oral
mucosa of humans and other mammals, and to determine whether it was expressed by 
abnormal human oral epithelium. Salivary and odontogenic epithelium were also
analysed. An immunoperoxidase method was used on wax-embedded and cryostat
sections. In addition, double-labelling experiments were undertaken to determine 
the association between CK 20 expression and that of CK 8/18 or S100 protein.
Normal human oral mucosa from four sites, together with abdominal skin, was
studied in autopsy samples from 32 individuals. CK 20-positive, basally situated,
round or angular cells, consistent with Merkel cells, were recorded in 24/32
(75.0%) samples of mandibular gingiva, 25/32 (78.1%) samples of hard palate, 7/32
(21.9%) samples of buccal mucosa, 0/32 samples of lateral border of tongue, and
2/32 (6.3%) samples of abdominal skin. Double-labelling showed that all CK
20-positive Merkel cells also expressed CK 8/18 and S100. The only other cells to
express CK 20 were human taste buds. There was no expression by dysplastic or
invasive oral epithelium from biopsy samples. Colonic mucosa showed luminal-cell 
positivity in man, marmoset, ferret, rabbit and guinea-pig, but oral mucosa was
universally negative in non-human species. It is concluded that in oral mucosa CK
20 is a specific marker of Merkel cells and taste buds, that Merkel cells are
more frequently present in keratinized than non-keratinized oral mucosa, that CK 
20-positive Merkel cells are also S100-positive, that there may be interspecies
variations in CK 20 polypeptide composition and that, by contrast to urothelium, 
CK 20 has no value in the diagnosis of oral epithelial dysplasia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9969(00)00050-9 
PMID: 10973561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3270. Exp Brain Res. 2000 Jul;133(2):178-88.

Antiparkinsonian and neuroprotective effects of modafinil in the mptp-treated
common marmoset.

Jenner P(1), Zeng BY, Smith LA, Pearce RK, Tel B, Chancharme L, Moachon G.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Division of Pharmacology and
Therapeutics, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School of Biomedical Sciences, King's 
College, London, UK. div.pharm@kcl.ac.uk

The psychostimulant drug, modafinil, protects rodents against
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity, striatal ischemia
and partial transection of the nigro-striatal pathway. We now report on the
ability of modafinil to reverse motor disability in MPTP-treated common marmosets
and to prevent MPTP-induced nigral cell death in this species. In the initial
experiments, adult common marmosets were treated with MPTP to produce stable
motor deficits. The subsequent administration of modafinil (10, 30 or 100
mg/kg/day, p.o.) produced a dose-dependent reversal of motor disability. In a
subsequent experiment, normal common marmosets were concurrently treated with 10,
30 or 100 mg/kg of modafinil once daily by gavage during acute MPTP
administration (daily for 5 days), continuing for 2 weeks after the last dose of 
MPTP. Modafinil dose-dependently prevented the decline in motor activity normally
produced by MPTP treatment. MPTP treatment caused a 76% loss of nigral
tyrosine-hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in placebo-treated animals, and this
was dose-dependently prevented by modafinil. At the highest dose (100 mg/kg/day) 
of modafinil, there was no significant loss of
tyrosine-hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra compared with
normal animals. MPTP treatment also reduced striatal dopamine uptake sites by
95%, as measured by specific [3H]-mazindol binding, compared with normal
controls. Modafinil treatment dose-dependently reduced the loss of specific
[3H]-mazindol binding. Behavioural and morphological evidence in the present
study indicate a potential antiparkinsonian and neuroprotective role for
modafinil, which may form a new pharmacological approach to the treatment of
Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s002210000370 
PMID: 10968218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

