

3271. Exp Neurol. 2000 Sep;165(1):136-42.

Antiparkinsonian actions of ifenprodil in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of
Parkinson's disease.

Nash JE(1), Fox SH, Henry B, Hill MP, Peggs D, McGuire S, Maneuf Y, Hille C,
Brotchie JM, Crossman AR.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, Room 1.124, Division of Neuroscience,
School of Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester,
M13 9PT, United Kingdom.

Dopamine-replacement strategies form the basis of most symptomatic treatments for
Parkinson's disease. However, since long-term dopamine-replacement therapies are 
characterized by many side effects, most notably dyskinesia, the concept of a
nondopaminergic therapy for Parkinson's disease has attracted great interest. To 
date, it has proved difficult to devise a nondopaminergic therapy with efficacy
comparable to that of dopamine replacement. In animal models of Parkinson's
disease, loss of striatal dopamine leads to enhanced excitation of striatal
NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. This is responsible, in part at least, for
generating parkinsonian symptoms. Here we demonstrate that, in the MPTP-lesioned 
marmoset, monotherapy with the NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist,
ifenprodil, administered de novo, has antiparkinsonian effects equivalent to
those of l-DOPA (administered as its methyl ester form). In MPTP-lesioned
marmosets, median mobility scores, following vehicle-treatment were 12.5/h (range
6-21), compared to 61/h (range 26-121) in normal, non-MPTP-lesioned animals.
Following ifenprodil (10 mg/kg) treatment in MPTP-lesioned marmosets, the median 
mobility score was 66/h (range 34-93), and following l-DOPA (10 mg/kg i.p.)
treatment 89/h (range 82-92). The data support the proposal that NR2B-selective
NMDA receptor antagonists have potential as a nondopaminergic monotherapy for the
treatment of parkinsonian symptoms when given de novo.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7444 
PMID: 10964492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3272. Rev Bras Biol. 2000 May;60(2):275-281.

Home range of a Geoffroy's marmoset group, Callithrix geoffroyi (Primates,
Callitrichidae) in South-eastern Brazil.

Passamani M(1), Rylands AB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 31270-901, Brazil.

The home range of one group of the Geoffroy's marmoset (Callithrix geoffroyi) was
studied in a fragment of the Atlantic Forest in south-eastern Brazil, between
February 1993 and January 1994. The total home range was 23.3 ha and the area
used in the dry season was significantly larger than that of the wet season. The 
smallest distance travelled by group was 480 m/day in May and the longest was
1,980 m/day in March, but with no significant differences between seasons. The
total home range used for this species agrees with the ecological grouping of the
genus Callithrix proposed by Rylands & Faria (1993) and may be associated with
the habitat structure, the limit of the fragment and the inexistence of
neighbouring groups.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71082000000200011 
PMID: 10959111 

