

3272. Rev Bras Biol. 2000 May;60(2):275-281.

Home range of a Geoffroy's marmoset group, Callithrix geoffroyi (Primates,
Callitrichidae) in South-eastern Brazil.

Passamani M(1), Rylands AB.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 31270-901, Brazil.

The home range of one group of the Geoffroy's marmoset (Callithrix geoffroyi) was
studied in a fragment of the Atlantic Forest in south-eastern Brazil, between
February 1993 and January 1994. The total home range was 23.3 ha and the area
used in the dry season was significantly larger than that of the wet season. The 
smallest distance travelled by group was 480 m/day in May and the longest was
1,980 m/day in March, but with no significant differences between seasons. The
total home range used for this species agrees with the ecological grouping of the
genus Callithrix proposed by Rylands & Faria (1993) and may be associated with
the habitat structure, the limit of the fragment and the inexistence of
neighbouring groups.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71082000000200011 
PMID: 10959111 


3273. Rev Bras Biol. 2000 May;60(2):237-247.

Conservation value of a native forest fragment in a region of extensive
agriculture.

Chiarello AG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Museu de Biologia Prof. Mello Leitão, Santa Teresa, ES, 29650-000, Brazil.

A survey of mammals and birds was carried out in a semi-deciduous forest fragment
of 150 ha located in a zone of intensive agriculture in Ribeirão Preto, State of 
São Paulo, south-eastern Brazil. Line transect sampling was used to census
mammals and birds during six days, totalling 27.8 km of trails and 27.8 hours of 
observation. Twenty mammal species were confirmed in the area (except bats and
small mammals), including rare or endangered species, such as the mountain lion
(Puma concolor), the maned wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus), and the ocelot
(Leopardus pardalis). The brown capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) and the
black-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) were found frequently,
suggesting high population density in the fragment. Regarding the avifauna, 49
bird species were recorded, most of them typical of open areas or forest edges.
Some confirmed species, however, are becoming increasingly rare in the region, as
for example the muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) and the toco toucan (Ramphastos
toco). The results demonstrate that forest fragment of this size are refuges for 
native fauna in a region dominated almost exclusively by sugar-cane plantations. 
Besides faunal aspects, the conservation of these fragments is of great
importance for the establishment of studies related to species preservation in
the long term, including reintroduction and translocation projects, as well as
studies related to genetic health of isolated populations.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71082000000200007 
PMID: 10959107 

