

3273. Rev Bras Biol. 2000 May;60(2):237-247.

Conservation value of a native forest fragment in a region of extensive
agriculture.

Chiarello AG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Museu de Biologia Prof. Mello Leitão, Santa Teresa, ES, 29650-000, Brazil.

A survey of mammals and birds was carried out in a semi-deciduous forest fragment
of 150 ha located in a zone of intensive agriculture in Ribeirão Preto, State of 
São Paulo, south-eastern Brazil. Line transect sampling was used to census
mammals and birds during six days, totalling 27.8 km of trails and 27.8 hours of 
observation. Twenty mammal species were confirmed in the area (except bats and
small mammals), including rare or endangered species, such as the mountain lion
(Puma concolor), the maned wolf (Chrysocyon brachyurus), and the ocelot
(Leopardus pardalis). The brown capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) and the
black-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) were found frequently,
suggesting high population density in the fragment. Regarding the avifauna, 49
bird species were recorded, most of them typical of open areas or forest edges.
Some confirmed species, however, are becoming increasingly rare in the region, as
for example the muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) and the toco toucan (Ramphastos
toco). The results demonstrate that forest fragment of this size are refuges for 
native fauna in a region dominated almost exclusively by sugar-cane plantations. 
Besides faunal aspects, the conservation of these fragments is of great
importance for the establishment of studies related to species preservation in
the long term, including reintroduction and translocation projects, as well as
studies related to genetic health of isolated populations.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71082000000200007 
PMID: 10959107 


3274. J Biomed Opt. 2000 Jul;5(3):307-14.

On the use of schematic eye models to estimate retinal image quality.

Li G(1), Zwick H, Stuck B, Lund DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, US Army Medical Research Detachment,
Brooks Air Force Base, Texas 78235-5138, USA. liguo@aol.com

The optical performance of the eyes of nine vertebrate species was evaluated
using optical system design techniques and schematic eye models. Essential
features of eyes, including the modulation transfer function (MTF) and the MTF
cutoff frequency are related to the numerical aperture of the eyes. Superior
resolution for in vivo imaging of photoreceptors may be achieved by dilating the 
iris pupil of an eye, minimizing coherence, and using short wavelength
illumination. The difference of lateral and axial resolution between a small and 
a large eye for imaging photoreceptors in vivo.

DOI: 10.1117/1.430001 
PMID: 10958617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

