

3275. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2000 Jul;151(1):91-7.

Anxiolytic profile of ropinirole in the rat, mouse and common marmoset.

Rogers DC(1), Costall B, Domeney AM, Gerrard PA, Greener M, Kelly ME, Hagan JJ,
Hunter AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Harlow, Essex, UK. 
Derek_C_Rogers@sbphrd.com

RATIONALE: Some features of Parkinson's disease are exacerbated by stress and
anxiety and it is important to understand the effects of dopamine receptor
agonists on measures of anxiety. The aim of this study was to assess the effects 
of the dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist ropinirole in models of anxiety and
depression in the rat, mouse and marmoset.
RESULTS: In the rat elevated plus-maze test, ropinirole (0.01-1 mg/kg, i.p.)
produced an inverted-U dose-response curve in the percentage time spent in the
open arms. Compared with vehicle, ropinirole (0.1 mg/kg) had a significant
anxiolytic-like effect, which was similar to that observed with 1.5 mg/kg
diazepam. This effect was found at doses that did not affect motor behaviour or
induce stereotypy. In the mouse black and white box test of anxiety, ropinirole
(0.1-10 mg/kg, i.p.) increased both the rearing time and number of line crosses
in the white section. This effect reached statistical significance for both
measures at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg and suggests an anxiolytic-like action of the
compound. By contrast, the dopamine agonist bromocriptine (0.1-10 mg/kg, i.p.)
did not produce significant changes in these behaviours. In the marmoset human
threat test, ropinirole (0.01-10 microg/kg, s.c.) reduced the number of postures 
at all doses tested and this reached statistical significance at 10 microg/kg.
Ropinirole did not compromise the effect of amitriptyline in the Porsolt test of 
depression and in itself produced antidepressant-like effects.
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that systemic administration of ropinirole
produces anxiolytic-like effects in three separate models in the mouse, rat and
marmoset. This may predict an action of ropinirole in man that would provide a
superior profile of action over other presently available anti-parkinsonian
agents.

DOI: 10.1007/s002130000485 
PMID: 10958122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3276. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 2000 Aug 10;16(12):1179-82.

CXCR4 homologues of gibbon ape, African green monkey, squirrel monkey, and
cotton-top marmoset.

Zubair S(1), Metzenberg S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, California State University, Northridge 91330-8303,
USA.

CXCR4 gene homologues were isolated from an ape (gibbon), an Old World monkey
(African green monkey), and two New World monkeys (squirrel monkey and cotton-top
marmoset), and their DNA sequences determined. The squirrel monkey and cotton-top
marmoset CXCR4 sequences more closely resemble homologues from apes than Old
World monkeys, a pattern not seen for the related chemokine receptor CCR5. The
African green monkey CXCR4 gene is similar to its homologue in baboon, a pattern 
that has also been seen among CCR5 homologues. The gibbon CXCR4 contains the
first polymorphisms recognized in ape homologues, the human and chimpanzee CXCR4 
proteins being identical, and two of these three differences are also observed in
one or more Old World monkey homologues. While 18 positions within CXCR4 are now 
known to be polymorphic in primates, 7 of these polymorphisms have been observed 
in multiple examples and 11 have been observed only once.

DOI: 10.1089/088922200415036 
PMID: 10954894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

