

3276. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 2000 Aug 10;16(12):1179-82.

CXCR4 homologues of gibbon ape, African green monkey, squirrel monkey, and
cotton-top marmoset.

Zubair S(1), Metzenberg S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, California State University, Northridge 91330-8303,
USA.

CXCR4 gene homologues were isolated from an ape (gibbon), an Old World monkey
(African green monkey), and two New World monkeys (squirrel monkey and cotton-top
marmoset), and their DNA sequences determined. The squirrel monkey and cotton-top
marmoset CXCR4 sequences more closely resemble homologues from apes than Old
World monkeys, a pattern not seen for the related chemokine receptor CCR5. The
African green monkey CXCR4 gene is similar to its homologue in baboon, a pattern 
that has also been seen among CCR5 homologues. The gibbon CXCR4 contains the
first polymorphisms recognized in ape homologues, the human and chimpanzee CXCR4 
proteins being identical, and two of these three differences are also observed in
one or more Old World monkey homologues. While 18 positions within CXCR4 are now 
known to be polymorphic in primates, 7 of these polymorphisms have been observed 
in multiple examples and 11 have been observed only once.

DOI: 10.1089/088922200415036 
PMID: 10954894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3277. J Virol. 2000 Sep;74(17):8102-10.

The collagen repeat sequence is a determinant of the degree of herpesvirus
saimiri STP transforming activity.

Choi JK(1), Ishido S, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics and Division of Tumor
Virology, New England Regional Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School,
Southborough, Massachusetts 01772-9102, USA.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is divided into three subgroups, A, B, and C, based on 
sequence divergence at the left end of genomic DNA in which the saimiri
transforming protein (STP) resides. Subgroup A and C strains transform primary
common marmoset lymphocytes to interleukin-2-independent growth, whereas subgroup
B strains do not. To investigate the nononcogenic phenotype of the subgroup B
viruses, STP genes from seven subgroup B virus isolates were cloned and
sequenced. Consistent with the lack of oncogenic activity of HVS subgroup B
viruses, STP-B was deficient for transforming activity in rodent fibroblast
cells. Sequence comparison reveals that STP-B lacks the signal-transducing
modules found in STP proteins of the other subgroups, collagen repeats and an
authentic SH2 binding motif. Substitution mutations demonstrated that the lack of
collagen repeats but not an SH2 binding motif contributed to the nontransforming 
phenotype of STP-B. Introduction of the collagen repeat sequence induced
oligomerization of STP-B, resulting in activation of NF-kappaB activity and
deregulation of cell growth control. These results demonstrate that the collagen 
repeat sequence is a determinant of the degree of HVS STP transforming activity.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.17.8102-8110.2000 
PMCID: PMC112343
PMID: 10933720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

