

3277. J Virol. 2000 Sep;74(17):8102-10.

The collagen repeat sequence is a determinant of the degree of herpesvirus
saimiri STP transforming activity.

Choi JK(1), Ishido S, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics and Division of Tumor
Virology, New England Regional Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School,
Southborough, Massachusetts 01772-9102, USA.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is divided into three subgroups, A, B, and C, based on 
sequence divergence at the left end of genomic DNA in which the saimiri
transforming protein (STP) resides. Subgroup A and C strains transform primary
common marmoset lymphocytes to interleukin-2-independent growth, whereas subgroup
B strains do not. To investigate the nononcogenic phenotype of the subgroup B
viruses, STP genes from seven subgroup B virus isolates were cloned and
sequenced. Consistent with the lack of oncogenic activity of HVS subgroup B
viruses, STP-B was deficient for transforming activity in rodent fibroblast
cells. Sequence comparison reveals that STP-B lacks the signal-transducing
modules found in STP proteins of the other subgroups, collagen repeats and an
authentic SH2 binding motif. Substitution mutations demonstrated that the lack of
collagen repeats but not an SH2 binding motif contributed to the nontransforming 
phenotype of STP-B. Introduction of the collagen repeat sequence induced
oligomerization of STP-B, resulting in activation of NF-kappaB activity and
deregulation of cell growth control. These results demonstrate that the collagen 
repeat sequence is a determinant of the degree of HVS STP transforming activity.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.17.8102-8110.2000 
PMCID: PMC112343
PMID: 10933720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3278. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2000 Jun;72(2):165-72.

The current status of the New World monkey phylogeny.

Schneider H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Pará, Bragança, Brazil. hschneider@eletronet.com.br

Four DNA datasets were combined in tandem (6700 bp) and Maximum parsimony and
Neighbor-Joining analyses were performed. The results suggest three groups
emerging almost at the same time: Atelidae, Pitheciidae and Cebidae. The total
analysis strongly supports the monophyly of the Cebidae family, grouping Aotus,
Cebus and Saimiri with the small callitrichines. In the callitrichines, the data 
link Cebuela to Callithrix, place Callimico as a sister group of
Callithrix/Cebuella, and show Saguinus to be the earliest offshoot of the
callitrichines. In the family Pithecidae, Callicebus is the basal genus. Finally,
combined molecular data showed congruent branching in the atelid clade, setting
up Alouatta as the basal lineage and Brachyteles-Lagothrix as a sister group and 
the most derived branch. Two major points remain to be clarified in the
platyrrhine phylogeny: (i) what is the exact branching pattern of Aotus, Cebus,
Saimiri and the small callitrichines, and (ii), which two of these three
lineages, pitheciines, atelines or cebids, are more closely related?

DOI: 10.1590/s0001-37652000000200005 
PMID: 10932115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

