

3279. Horm Behav. 2000 Aug;38(1):1-12.

Pre- and postpartum sex steroids in female marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii): is
there a link with infant survivorship and maternal behavior?

Fite JE(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, 68182-0274, USA.

Recent studies in primates have suggested that pre- and peripartum sex steroid
hormones may be important determinants of maternal behavior and motivation, since
higher levels of prepartum estrogen are associated with maternal competency and
infant survivorship. To test the cross-species generality of this finding, we
monitored excreted profiles of estradiol (E(2)), progesterone metabolites
(pregnanediol glucuronide; PdG), and E(2):PdG ratios throughout pregnancy in
black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii). Additionally, we wanted to
determine the extent to which variability in maternal carrying effort was related
to hormonal factors and relative levels of maternal experience. For six females, 
hormonal profiles were determined by enzyme immunoassay for two pregnancies, one 
in which infants survived at least 2 weeks postpartum and one in which infants
did not survive. Our within-subjects analyses revealed significant differences in
mean prepartum E(2) levels for females in the different infant survival
conditions. In contrast to previous findings, however, females exhibited
significantly higher prepartum E(2) levels when their infants did not survive a
minimum of 2 weeks postpartum, relative to when their infants did survive.
Maternal carrying effort was also negatively and significantly correlated with
prepartum E(2) levels. Unlike previous reports in callitrichid primates, then,
our data suggest that high concentrations of prepartum E(2) in callitrichid
primates are not necessarily associated with competent maternal behavior and may 
instead be associated with poor infant survivorship and inadequate maternal care.
Further, our results appear to be convergent with research focusing on human
mothers and may represent a common underlying mechanism linking prepartum
estrogen and postpartum affect and behavior in some primates.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.2000.1607 
PMID: 10924281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3280. J Anat. 2000 May;196 ( Pt 4):597-607.

Aspects of PET imaging relevant to the assessment of striatal transplantation in 
Huntington's disease.

Besret L(1), Kendall AL, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Brain Repair, University of Cambridge, UK.

Proper assessment of outcome in clinical trials of neural transplantation
requires both biochemical and imaging indices of graft survival, and behavioural 
and physiological indices of graft function. For transplantation in Huntington's 
disease, a variety of ligands that are selective for striatal degeneration and
graft-derived replacement are available, notably ligands of dopaminergic
receptors on striatal neurons. However, the validity of such ligands is
potentially compromised by adjunctive drug therapies (e.g. neuroleptics) given to
patients in the course of normal clinical care. We review the present state of
experimental and clinical understanding of the selectivity of available ligands
for striatal imaging, their interaction with other drug treatments, and
strategies for refining valid assessment protocols in patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.2000.19640597.x 
PMCID: PMC1468100
PMID: 10923990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

