

3283. Immunogenetics. 2000 Jun;51(7):606-9.

A novel Mhc-B-related processed pseudogene in two species of New World primates.

Wells RS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA 94305, USA.
rswells@well.ox.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1007/s002519900143 
PMID: 10912512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3284. Immunogenetics. 2000 Jun;51(7):528-37.

Sequence and diversity of MHC DQA and DQB genes of the owl monkey Aotus
nancymaae.

Diaz D(1), Naegeli M, Rodriguez R, Nino-Vasquez JJ, Moreno A, Patarroyo ME,
Pluschke G, Daubenberger CA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Immunologia, Hospital San Juan de Dios, Universidad Nacional de
Colombia, Santafe de Bogota, DC, Colombia.

The New World primate Aotus nancymaae has been recommended by the World Health
Organization (WHO) as a model for evaluation of malaria vaccine candidates, given
its susceptibility to experimental infection with the human malaria parasites
Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax. We present here the nucleotide
sequences of the complete cDNA of MHC-DQA1 and of the polymorphic exon 2 segments
of MHC-DQB1/DQB2. In a group of three nonrelated animals captured in the wild,
five alleles of MHC-DQA1 could be identified. They all belong to one lineage,
namely Aona-DQA1*27. This lineage has not been described in any other New World
monkey species studied. In a group of 19 unrelated animals, 14 Aona-DQB1 alleles 
could be identified which are grouped into the two lineages Aona-DQB1*22 and
Aona-DQB1*23. These lineages have been described previously in the common
marmoset and cotton-top tamarin. In addition, two Aona-DQB2 sequences could be
identified which are highly similar to HLA-DQB2 sequences. Essential amino acid
residues contributing to MHC DQ peptide binding pockets number 1 and 4 are
conserved or semi-conserved between HLA-DQ and Aona-DQ molecules, indicating a
capacity to bind similar peptide repertoires. These results fully support the use
of Aotus monkeys as an animal model for evaluation of future subunit vaccine
candidates.

DOI: 10.1007/s002510000189 
PMID: 10912504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

