

3284. Immunogenetics. 2000 Jun;51(7):528-37.

Sequence and diversity of MHC DQA and DQB genes of the owl monkey Aotus
nancymaae.

Diaz D(1), Naegeli M, Rodriguez R, Nino-Vasquez JJ, Moreno A, Patarroyo ME,
Pluschke G, Daubenberger CA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Immunologia, Hospital San Juan de Dios, Universidad Nacional de
Colombia, Santafe de Bogota, DC, Colombia.

The New World primate Aotus nancymaae has been recommended by the World Health
Organization (WHO) as a model for evaluation of malaria vaccine candidates, given
its susceptibility to experimental infection with the human malaria parasites
Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax. We present here the nucleotide
sequences of the complete cDNA of MHC-DQA1 and of the polymorphic exon 2 segments
of MHC-DQB1/DQB2. In a group of three nonrelated animals captured in the wild,
five alleles of MHC-DQA1 could be identified. They all belong to one lineage,
namely Aona-DQA1*27. This lineage has not been described in any other New World
monkey species studied. In a group of 19 unrelated animals, 14 Aona-DQB1 alleles 
could be identified which are grouped into the two lineages Aona-DQB1*22 and
Aona-DQB1*23. These lineages have been described previously in the common
marmoset and cotton-top tamarin. In addition, two Aona-DQB2 sequences could be
identified which are highly similar to HLA-DQB2 sequences. Essential amino acid
residues contributing to MHC DQ peptide binding pockets number 1 and 4 are
conserved or semi-conserved between HLA-DQ and Aona-DQ molecules, indicating a
capacity to bind similar peptide repertoires. These results fully support the use
of Aotus monkeys as an animal model for evaluation of future subunit vaccine
candidates.

DOI: 10.1007/s002510000189 
PMID: 10912504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3285. Vis Neurosci. 2000 May-Jun;17(3):437-48.

Distribution of the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor on midget and parasol 
ganglion cells in the retina of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Macri J(1), Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been shown to 
influence the responses of ganglion cells in the mammalian retina. Consistently, 
GABA(A) receptor subunits have been localized to different ganglion cell types.
In this study, the distribution of the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor on 
the dendrites of midget and parasol ganglion cells was investigated
quantitatively in the retina of a New World monkey, the marmoset. Ganglion cells 
were injected with Neurobiotin in a live in vitro retinal whole-mount
preparation. Retinal pieces were then processed with an antibody against the
alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. Strong punctate immunoreactivity
indicative of synaptic localization is present in the ON and OFF sublamina of the
inner plexiform layer. Many of the immunoreactive puncta coincide with the
dendrites of both midget and parasol ganglion cells. Immunoreactive puncta are
present on distal and proximal dendrites of ON and OFF cells of both ganglion
cell types. On average, parasol cells show a slight increase in the spatial
density of immunoreactive puncta with distance from the soma, whereas the density
of immunoreactive puncta on midget cells stays even. Parasol ganglion cells show 
a slightly higher average density of immunoreactive puncta (0.083 puncta/microm
dendrite) than midget cells (0.054 puncta/microm dendrite).

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800173109 
PMID: 10910110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

