

3289. J Virol. 2000 Aug;74(16):7548-53.

Measles virus-induced immunosuppression in vitro is independent of complex
glycosylation of viral glycoproteins and of hemifusion.

Weidmann A(1), Fischer C, Ohgimoto S, Rüth C, ter Meulen V, Schneider-Schaulies
S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Virology and Immunobiology, University of Würzburg, D-97078
Würzburg, Germany.

Expression of the measles virus (MV) F/H complex on the surface of viral
particles, infected cells, or cells transfected to express these proteins
(presenter cells [PC]) is necessary and sufficient to induce proliferative arrest
in both human and rodent lymphoid cells (responder cells [RC]). This inhibition
was found to occur independent of apoptosis and soluble mediators excluded by a
pore size filter of 200 nm released from either PC or RC. We now show that
reactive oxygen intermediates which might be released by RC or PC also do not
contribute to MV-induced immunosuppression in vitro. Using an inhibitor of
Golgi-resident mannosidases (deoxymannojirimycin), we found that complex
glycosylation of the F and H proteins is not required for the induction of
proliferative arrest of RC. As revealed by our previous studies, proteolytic
cleavage of the MV F protein precursor into its F1 and F2 subunits, but not of
F/H-mediated cellular fusion, was found to be required, since fusion-inhibitory
peptides such as Z-D-Phe-L-Phe-Gly (Z-fFG) did not interfere with the induction
of proliferative inhibition. We now show that Z-fFG inhibits cellular fusion at
the stage of hemifusion by preventing lipid mixing of the outer membrane layer.
These results provide strong evidence for a receptor-mediated signal elicited by 
the MV F/H complex which can be uncoupled from its fusogenic activity is required
for the induction of proliferative arrest of human lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.16.7548-7553.2000 
PMCID: PMC112275
PMID: 10906208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3290. J Virol. 2000 Aug;74(16):7478-84.

Evasion of host defenses by measles virus: wild-type measles virus infection
interferes with induction of Alpha/Beta interferon production.

Naniche D(1), Yeh A, Eto D, Manchester M, Friedman RM, Oldstone MB.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Virology, Department of Neuropharmacology, Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA. naniche@scripps.edu

Measles is a highly contagious disease currently responsible for over one million
childhood deaths, particularly in the developing world. Since alpha/beta
interferons (IFNs) are pivotal players both in nonspecific antiviral immunity and
in specific cellular responses, their induction or suppression by measles virus
(MV) could influence the outcome of a viral infection. In this study we compare
the IFN induction and sensitivity of laboratory-passaged attenuated MV strains
Edmonston and Moraten with those of recent wild-type viruses isolated and
passaged solely on human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) or on the B958
marmoset B-cell line. We report that two PBMC-grown wild-type measles isolates
and two B958-grown strains of MV induce 10- to 80-fold-lower production of IFN by
phytohemagglutinin-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) compared to
Edmonston and Moraten strains of measles. Preinfection of PBL with these
non-IFN-inducing MV isolates prevents Edmonston-induced but not
double-stranded-RNA-induced IFN production. This suggests that the wild-type
viruses can actively inhibit Edmonston-induced IFN synthesis and that this is not
occurring by double-stranded RNA. Furthermore, the wild-type MV is more sensitive
than Edmonston MV to the effect of IFN. MV is thus able to suppress the synthesis
of the earliest mediator of antiviral immunity, IFN-alpha/beta. This could have
important implications in the virulence and spread of MV.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.16.7478-7484.2000 
PMCID: PMC112268
PMID: 10906201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

