

3290. J Virol. 2000 Aug;74(16):7478-84.

Evasion of host defenses by measles virus: wild-type measles virus infection
interferes with induction of Alpha/Beta interferon production.

Naniche D(1), Yeh A, Eto D, Manchester M, Friedman RM, Oldstone MB.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Virology, Department of Neuropharmacology, Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA. naniche@scripps.edu

Measles is a highly contagious disease currently responsible for over one million
childhood deaths, particularly in the developing world. Since alpha/beta
interferons (IFNs) are pivotal players both in nonspecific antiviral immunity and
in specific cellular responses, their induction or suppression by measles virus
(MV) could influence the outcome of a viral infection. In this study we compare
the IFN induction and sensitivity of laboratory-passaged attenuated MV strains
Edmonston and Moraten with those of recent wild-type viruses isolated and
passaged solely on human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) or on the B958
marmoset B-cell line. We report that two PBMC-grown wild-type measles isolates
and two B958-grown strains of MV induce 10- to 80-fold-lower production of IFN by
phytohemagglutinin-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) compared to
Edmonston and Moraten strains of measles. Preinfection of PBL with these
non-IFN-inducing MV isolates prevents Edmonston-induced but not
double-stranded-RNA-induced IFN production. This suggests that the wild-type
viruses can actively inhibit Edmonston-induced IFN synthesis and that this is not
occurring by double-stranded RNA. Furthermore, the wild-type MV is more sensitive
than Edmonston MV to the effect of IFN. MV is thus able to suppress the synthesis
of the earliest mediator of antiviral immunity, IFN-alpha/beta. This could have
important implications in the virulence and spread of MV.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.16.7478-7484.2000 
PMCID: PMC112268
PMID: 10906201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3291. J Virol. 2000 Aug;74(16):7331-7.

Analysis of gene expression in a human cell line stably transduced with
herpesvirus saimiri.

Hall KT(1), Giles MS, Goodwin DJ, Calderwood MA, Carr IM, Stevenson AJ, Markham
AF, Whitehouse A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Unit, University of Leeds, St. James's University Hospital,
Leeds LS9 7TF, United Kingdom.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is the prototype gamma-2 herpesvirus; it has
significant homology to the human gammaherpesviruses Kaposi's sarcoma-associated 
virus and Epstein-Barr virus and the murine gammaherpesvirus murine herpesvirus
68. HVS causes a persistent asymptomatic infection in its natural host, the
squirrel monkey. Both subgroups A and C possess the ability to immortalize common
marmoset T lymphocytes to interleukin-2-independent proliferation. However, only 
subgroup C is capable of transforming human, rabbit, and rhesus monkey
lymphocytes in vitro. In addition, HVS can stably transduce a variety of human
cell lines where the virus persists as a nonintegrating circular episome. In this
study, we have developed a system in which the HVS DNA is stably maintained as a 
nonintegrated circular episome in the human lung carcinoma cell line A549. Virus 
production can be reactivated using chemical inducing agents, including
tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate and n-butyrate, suggesting that the infection in
human A549 cells is latent. To analyze virus gene expression in these stably
transduced cells, Northern blot analysis was performed using a series of probes
produced from restriction fragments spanning the entire coding region of the HVS 
genome. This demonstrated that an adjacent set of genes containing open reading
frames (ORFs) 71 to 73 are expressed in this stably transduced cell line.
Moreover, these genes are transcribed as a polycistronic mRNA species produced
from a common promoter upstream of ORF 73. This model may serve as a useful tool 
in the further analysis of the role of ORFs 71 to 73 in gamma-2 herpesvirus
latency.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.16.7331-7337.2000 
PMCID: PMC112253
PMID: 10906186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

