

3299. J Neurosci. 2000 Jul 15;20(14):5552-63.

Visual responses of neurons in the middle temporal area of new world monkeys
after lesions of striate cortex.

Rosa MG(1), Tweedale R, Elston GN.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch, and Hearing Research Centre, The University of Queensland, QLD 
4072, Australia. marcello.rosa@med.monash.edu.au

In primates, lesions of striate cortex (V1) result in scotomas in which only
rudimentary visual abilities remain. These aspects of vision that survive V1
lesions have been attributed to direct thalamic pathways to extrastriate areas,
including the middle temporal area (MT). However, studies in New World monkeys
and humans have questioned this interpretation, suggesting that remnants of V1
are responsible for both the activation of MT and residual vision. We studied the
visual responses of neurons in area MT in New World marmoset monkeys in the weeks
after lesions of V1. The extent of the scotoma in each case was estimated by
mapping the receptive fields of cells located near the lesion border and by
histological reconstruction. Two response types were observed among the cells
located in the part of MT that corresponds, in visuotopic coordinates, to the
lesioned part of V1. Many neurons (62%) had receptive fields that were displaced 
relative to their expected location, so that they represented the visual field
immediately surrounding the scotoma. This may be a consequence of a process
analogous to the reorganization of the V1 map after retinal lesions. However,
another 20% of the cells had receptive fields centered inside the scotoma. Most
of these neurons were strongly direction-selective, similar to normal MT cells.
These results show that MT cells differ in their responses to lesioning of V1 and
that only a subpopulation of MT neurons can be reasonably linked to residual
vision and blindsight.


PMCID: PMC6772324
PMID: 10884339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3300. Food Chem Toxicol. 2000;38 Suppl 2:S7-17.

Neurotoxicity studies on sucralose and its hydrolysis products with special
reference to histopathologic and ultrastructural changes.

Finn JP(1), Lord GH.

Author information: 
(1)Life Science Research, Eye, Suffolk IP23 7PX, UK.

Comparative neuropathological studies of 1,6-dichloro-1,
6-dideoxy-beta-D-fructofuranosyl-4-chloro-4-deoxy-alpha-D-galactopyra noside
(sucralose), an equimolar mixture of 1,6-dichloro-1, 6-dideoxyfructose (1,6-DCF) 
and 4-chloro-4-deoxygalactose (4-CG), the hydrolysis products of sucralose, and
6-chloro-6-deoxyglucose (6-CG) were conducted in male and female mice and male
marmoset monkeys, focusing on morphological changes in the central nervous
system. 6-Chloro-6-deoxyglucose, previously reported to produce neurotoxic
effects, served as the positive control and was administered by gavage at a daily
dose of 500mg/kg. Sucralose and the sucralose hydrolysis products (sucralose-HP) 
were similarly administered to mice and marmosets at doses of up to 1000mg/kg for
21 and 28 days, respectively. No changes were detected in the central nervous
system by light or electron microscopy in either of the species that received
sucralose or its hydrolysis products. 6-Chloro-6-deoxyglucose, in contrast,
induced symmetrical lesions in the deep nuclei of the cerebellum, brain stem and 
spinal cord with definitive neurological signs of CNS involvement.

DOI: 10.1016/s0278-6915(00)00024-7 
PMID: 10882814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

