

33. J Comp Pathol. 2021 Nov;189:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2021.09.002. Epub 2021 Oct
19.

Immunohistochemical Characterization of a Duodenal Adenocarcinoma with Pulmonary,
Hepatic and Parapatellar Metastases in a Common Marmoset (Callithrixjacchus).

Peterson C(1), Plunkard J(2), Johanson A(2), Izzi J(2), Gabrielson K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Electronic address: cpeter52@jhmi.edu.
(2)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

An 11-year-old male common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) presented with chronic, 
progressive weight loss and diarrhoea. Response to treatment with nutritional
supplementation, antibiotics and immunosuppressants was modest and transient, and
the animal was humanely euthanized. At necropsy, the proximal 8 cm of small
intestine was diffusely pale with transmural thickening. The lungs contained
coalescing tan, firm nodules measuring up to 4 mm in diameter. Histological
examination revealed infiltrative mucinous adenocarcinoma of the duodenum with
extensive metastases to the lungs, liver and left parapatellar adipose tissue.
The mucinous matrix secreted by the primary and metastatic lesions was strongly
periodic acid-Schiff positive. Warthin Starry staining for spirochaetes was
negative. Pancytokeratin expression was attenuated in the primary tumour as well 
as in the metastases, which correlated to a poorly differentiated phenotype. To
the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a proximal duodenal
adenocarcinoma with extensive metastatic disease in a common marmoset.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2021.09.002 
PMCID: PMC8669625 [Available on 2022-11-01]
PMID: 34886977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Vet Pathol. 2022 Mar;59(2):358-370. doi: 10.1177/03009858211052664. Epub 2021 Dec
6.

Vascular, cardiac, and renal lesions attributed to primary systemic hypertension 
in western pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea).

Cooley AJ(1), Savage A(1), Snowdon CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.

In a retrospective study of a western pygmy marmoset (Cebuella pygmaea) colony,
postmortem examination of 1/8 juvenile and 29/47 adult animals identified
vascular, cardiac, and renal lesions consistent with systemic hypertension. This 
included frequent renal arteriolar hypertrophy, hyaline and proliferative
arteriolosclerosis, fibrinoid necrosis of arterioles, glomerulosclerosis, and
nephrosclerosis. Affected animals ranged from 0.6 to 12 years of age (mean 6
years) and had an observed male predominance. Genealogical relatedness was
evident in several breeding pairs and spanned multiple generations. Concurrent
cardiac and renal disease was commonly identified, although frequently
subclinical, and both were important causes of morbidity and mortality in
affected animals. Cardiomegaly and hypertrophy were typical features and were
accompanied by left atrial thrombosis in 10 animals. Signs of heart failure
included chronic pulmonary edema in 20 cases and body cavity effusions in 17. In 
the kidneys, 19 cases had glomerular disease and hypertensive vasculopathy, and
26 cases had nephrosclerosis or glomerulosclerosis. Common extrarenal secondary
causes of hypertension were excluded by necropsy examination. The pathogenesis is
suggested to involve primary hypertension leading to renal and cardiac disease.
Elevated sympathetic activity might be an underlying factor in the frequent
development of primary systemic hypertension in the pygmy marmoset, as for the
owl monkey.

DOI: 10.1177/03009858211052664 
PMID: 34872391 

