

3300. Food Chem Toxicol. 2000;38 Suppl 2:S7-17.

Neurotoxicity studies on sucralose and its hydrolysis products with special
reference to histopathologic and ultrastructural changes.

Finn JP(1), Lord GH.

Author information: 
(1)Life Science Research, Eye, Suffolk IP23 7PX, UK.

Comparative neuropathological studies of 1,6-dichloro-1,
6-dideoxy-beta-D-fructofuranosyl-4-chloro-4-deoxy-alpha-D-galactopyra noside
(sucralose), an equimolar mixture of 1,6-dichloro-1, 6-dideoxyfructose (1,6-DCF) 
and 4-chloro-4-deoxygalactose (4-CG), the hydrolysis products of sucralose, and
6-chloro-6-deoxyglucose (6-CG) were conducted in male and female mice and male
marmoset monkeys, focusing on morphological changes in the central nervous
system. 6-Chloro-6-deoxyglucose, previously reported to produce neurotoxic
effects, served as the positive control and was administered by gavage at a daily
dose of 500mg/kg. Sucralose and the sucralose hydrolysis products (sucralose-HP) 
were similarly administered to mice and marmosets at doses of up to 1000mg/kg for
21 and 28 days, respectively. No changes were detected in the central nervous
system by light or electron microscopy in either of the species that received
sucralose or its hydrolysis products. 6-Chloro-6-deoxyglucose, in contrast,
induced symmetrical lesions in the deep nuclei of the cerebellum, brain stem and 
spinal cord with definitive neurological signs of CNS involvement.

DOI: 10.1016/s0278-6915(00)00024-7 
PMID: 10882814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3301. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 1999 Sep-Oct;32(5):533-40.

[Immune response produced by anti-rabies vaccines in marmosets (Callithrix sp)].

[Article in Portuguese]

Andrade MC(1), de Oliveira AN, Romijn PC, Kimura LM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Animal, Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuária do Estado do 
Rio de Janeiro, Niterói, RJ, Brasil. andrade@bionet.biomang.fiocruz.br

In order to evaluate the immune response produced by rabies vaccines in new world
nonhuman primates, thirty marmosets (Callithrix sp) were divided into five groups
of six individuals and submitted to five different antirabies vaccination schemes
using two distinct commercially available animal vaccines. The first was produced
in suckling mouse brain (Fuenzalida and Palacios), and the second in NIL-2 cell
culture. Post-vaccine serological monitoring was carried out periodically. The
results showed that the Fuenzalida and Palacios vaccine was not able to protect
the animals when using a single dose or even with a booster. But when submitted
to a vaccination routine similar to that used for humans, the marmosets showed
detectable antibodies, and only one succumbed to rabies after being challenged.
In addition, the vaccine produced in NIL-2 cell culture induced high antibody
levels in all vaccinated animals and all animals survived the viral challenge.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86821999000500011 
PMID: 10881088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

