

3301. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 1999 Sep-Oct;32(5):533-40.

[Immune response produced by anti-rabies vaccines in marmosets (Callithrix sp)].

[Article in Portuguese]

Andrade MC(1), de Oliveira AN, Romijn PC, Kimura LM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Biologia Animal, Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuária do Estado do 
Rio de Janeiro, Niterói, RJ, Brasil. andrade@bionet.biomang.fiocruz.br

In order to evaluate the immune response produced by rabies vaccines in new world
nonhuman primates, thirty marmosets (Callithrix sp) were divided into five groups
of six individuals and submitted to five different antirabies vaccination schemes
using two distinct commercially available animal vaccines. The first was produced
in suckling mouse brain (Fuenzalida and Palacios), and the second in NIL-2 cell
culture. Post-vaccine serological monitoring was carried out periodically. The
results showed that the Fuenzalida and Palacios vaccine was not able to protect
the animals when using a single dose or even with a booster. But when submitted
to a vaccination routine similar to that used for humans, the marmosets showed
detectable antibodies, and only one succumbed to rabies after being challenged.
In addition, the vaccine produced in NIL-2 cell culture induced high antibody
levels in all vaccinated animals and all animals survived the viral challenge.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86821999000500011 
PMID: 10881088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3302. J Immunol. 2000 Jul 15;165(2):1093-101.

Myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced autoimmune encephalomyelitis in
common marmosets: the encephalitogenic T cell epitope pMOG24-36 is presented by a
monomorphic MHC class II molecule.

Brok HP(1), Uccelli A, Kerlero De Rosbo N, Bontrop RE, Roccatagliata L, de Groot 
NG, Capello E, Laman JD, Nicolay K, Mancardi GL, Ben-Nun A, Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Immunization of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with a single dose of human
myelin in CFA, without administration of Bordetella pertussis, induces a form of 
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) resembling in its clinical and pathological
expression multiple sclerosis in humans. The EAE incidence in our outbred
marmoset colony is 100%. This study was undertaken to assess the genetic and
immunological basis of the high EAE susceptibility. To this end, we determined
the separate contributions of immune reactions to myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG) and myelin basic protein to the EAE induction. Essentially all
pathological features of myelin-induced EAE were also found in animals immunized 
with MOG in CFA, whereas in animals immunized with myelin basic protein in CFA
clinical and pathological signs of EAE were lacking. The epitope recognition by
anti-MOG Abs and T cells were assessed. Evidence is provided that the initiation 
of EAE is based on T and B cell activation by the encephalitogenic phMOG14-36
peptide in the context of monomorphic Caja-DRB*W1201 molecules.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.165.2.1093 
PMID: 10878388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

