

3305. J Comp Neurol. 2000 Jul 10;422(4):621-51.

Visual areas in lateral and ventral extrastriate cortices of the marmoset monkey.

Rosa MG(1), Tweedale R.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, The University of Queensland, Queensland 4072, Australia.
Marcello.Rosa@rmed.rmonash.edu.au

The representation of the visual field in visual areas of the dorsolateral,
lateral, and ventral cortices was studied by means of extracellular recordings
and fluorescent tracer injections in anaesthetised marmoset monkeys. Two areas,
forming mirror-symmetrical representations of the contralateral visual field,
were found rostral to the second visual area (V2). These were termed the
ventrolateral posterior (VLP) and the ventrolateral anterior (VLA) areas. In both
areas, the representation of the lower quadrant is located dorsally, between the 
foveal representation of V2 and the middle temporal crescent (MTc), whereas the
representation of the upper quadrant is located ventrally, in the supratentorial 
cortex. A representation of the vertical meridian forms the common border of
areas VLP and VLA, whereas the horizontal meridian is represented both at the
caudal border of area VLP (with V2) and at the rostral border of area VLA (with
multiple extrastriate areas). The foveal representations of areas VLP and VLA are
continuous with that of V2, being located at the lateral edge of the hemisphere. 
The topographic and laminar patterns of projections from dorsolateral and ventral
cortices to the primary (V1) and dorsomedial (DM) visual areas both support the
present definition of the borders of areas VLP and VLA. These results argue
against a separation between dorsolateral and ventral extrastriate areas and
provide clues for the likely homologies between extrastriate areas of different
species.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-9861(20000710)422:4<621::aid-cne10>3.0.co;2-e 
PMID: 10861530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3306. Physiol Behav. 2000 Apr 1-15;69(1-2):121-33.

Taste quality and intensity: lessons from the Morrison technique.

Ganchrow D(1), Erickson RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv
University, Israel. anatom12@post.tau.ac.il

The nontoxic and nonshock Morrison operant technique was used to evaluate taste
quality in rat and marmoset: response to a tastant test solution in pursuit of a 
pellet reward was dependent on making a choice between two bars that had been
linked in discrimination training to qualitatively different stimulus pairs (NaCl
versus either HCl, QHCl, or NH(4)Cl). The percentage distribution of bar-press
responses to test stimuli showed: (1) stability of quality across 0.069-0.3 M
NaCl, 0.003-0.1 M HCl, and 0.0001-0.003 M QHCl; (2) for LiCl, a quality change
consistent with human reports of a "sour" to "salty" shift; (3) a suggestion that
the "salty-like" quality of NH(4)Cl and NaCl are not perceptually equivalent; (4)
NaNO(3) shares NaCl-like, QHCl-like, and NH(4)Cl-like components; (5) CaCl(2),
KCl, and MgCl(2) share QHCl-like and NH(4)Cl-like components; and (6) responses
to HCl and QHCl were not hedonically driven in the rat. Comparison of rank order 
correlations of single-unit firing rates to the distribution of bar-press
responses for the same test stimulus concentration revealed that (7) no single
level of the gustatory pathway exclusively accounts for the operant response
distribution pattern to either simple or complex tastants, and (8)
discriminations between tastants, one of which may be qualitatively complex, are 
not necessarily mediated only at levels proximal to the solitary nucleus. Thus,
the Morrison discrimination technique effectively yields statements about
gustatory quality without use of negative reinforcers and largely uninfluenced by
tastant hedonics.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(00)00196-7 
PMID: 10854924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

