

3308. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Jun;85(6):2339-44.

Inhibition of early luteal angiogenesis by gonadotropin-releasing hormone
antagonist treatment in the primate.

Dickson SE(1), Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. s.dickson@ed-rbu.mrc.ac.uk

Angiogenesis during luteal development is essential for normal lutein cell
function, but the control of this process and the relationships between the
steroidogenic and endothelial cells have still to be elucidated. The aim of this 
study was to: 1) quantify endothelial cell proliferation throughout the luteal
phase of the marmoset ovulatory cycle; 2) determine the effect of gonadotropin
withdrawal using GnRH antagonist treatment on the early luteal phase angiogenesis
peak; and 3) describe the resultant morphological changes in the corpus luteum
(CL). Ovaries were collected during the early, mid-, and late luteal phase, and
changes in angiogenic activity were determined by quantification of
bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. Animals were treated with a GnRH antagonist, on 
luteal days 1 and 2, and ovaries were collected on day 3. A proliferation index
was obtained by counting the number of bromodeoxyuridine immunopositive cells in 
luteal sections. Cell proliferation was maximal in the early luteal phase and
fell significantly in the mid- and late CL. GnRH antagonist treatment reduced the
early luteal phase proliferation peak by 90%, suppressed plasma progesterone, and
severely disrupted lutein cell morphology. These results demonstrate that the
intense angiogenesis in the early primate CL is dependent on gonadotropin
stimulation of lutein cells.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.85.6.6621 
PMID: 10852474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3309. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Jun;85(6):2281-6.

Male hypogonadism caused by homozygous deletion of exon 10 of the luteinizing
hormone (LH) receptor: differential action of human chorionic gonadotropin and
LH.

Gromoll J(1), Eiholzer U, Nieschlag E, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, MÃ¼nster, Germany.

We report the unique case of a patient with Leydig cell hypoplasia (LCH) type II 
caused by a genomic deletion resulting in the complete absence of exon 10 of the 
LH receptor (LHR). The patient presented at the age of 18 yr with retarded
pubertal development, small testicles, and delayed bone maturation. LH was highly
elevated, with very low serum testosterone levels. Genetic analysis revealed a
homozygous deletion of approximately 5 kbp encompassing exon 10 of the LHR gene. 
Screening of family members demonstrated heterozygosity for the deletion,
indicating autosomal recessive inheritance. At the time of examination, the
patient displayed nearly normal male phenotype, but lacked pubertal development
and was hypogonadal. Obviously, fetal male development sustained by hCG was
normal, whereas LH action, important for pubertal development, was impaired. A
hCG stimulation test induced testosterone biosynthesis and secretion within the
normal range. Subsequently, hCG treatment was continued, resulting in an increase
in testicular volume and the appearance of spermatozoa in the ejaculate after 16 
weeks of treatment (5.3 million/mL). Despite highly elevated endogenous LH serum 
levels, the response to hCG indicates a possible dual mechanism of hormone
binding and signal transduction for hCG and LH on a LHR that lacks exon 10.
Furthermore, this patient represents the clinical counterpart of the normal male 
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), in which the expressed LHR lacks exon 10 in
toto. This case provides important clinical insights about the possible role of
exon 10 of the LHR in discriminating between LH and hCG actions.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.85.6.6636 
PMID: 10852464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

