

3309. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Jun;85(6):2281-6.

Male hypogonadism caused by homozygous deletion of exon 10 of the luteinizing
hormone (LH) receptor: differential action of human chorionic gonadotropin and
LH.

Gromoll J(1), Eiholzer U, Nieschlag E, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, MÃ¼nster, Germany.

We report the unique case of a patient with Leydig cell hypoplasia (LCH) type II 
caused by a genomic deletion resulting in the complete absence of exon 10 of the 
LH receptor (LHR). The patient presented at the age of 18 yr with retarded
pubertal development, small testicles, and delayed bone maturation. LH was highly
elevated, with very low serum testosterone levels. Genetic analysis revealed a
homozygous deletion of approximately 5 kbp encompassing exon 10 of the LHR gene. 
Screening of family members demonstrated heterozygosity for the deletion,
indicating autosomal recessive inheritance. At the time of examination, the
patient displayed nearly normal male phenotype, but lacked pubertal development
and was hypogonadal. Obviously, fetal male development sustained by hCG was
normal, whereas LH action, important for pubertal development, was impaired. A
hCG stimulation test induced testosterone biosynthesis and secretion within the
normal range. Subsequently, hCG treatment was continued, resulting in an increase
in testicular volume and the appearance of spermatozoa in the ejaculate after 16 
weeks of treatment (5.3 million/mL). Despite highly elevated endogenous LH serum 
levels, the response to hCG indicates a possible dual mechanism of hormone
binding and signal transduction for hCG and LH on a LHR that lacks exon 10.
Furthermore, this patient represents the clinical counterpart of the normal male 
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), in which the expressed LHR lacks exon 10 in
toto. This case provides important clinical insights about the possible role of
exon 10 of the LHR in discriminating between LH and hCG actions.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.85.6.6636 
PMID: 10852464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3310. Immunol Today. 2000 Jun;21(6):290-7.

A new primate model for multiple sclerosis in the common marmoset.

't Hart BA(1), van Meurs M, Brok HP, Massacesi L, Bauer J, Boon L, Bontrop RE,
Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC), PO Box 3306,
2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in outbred marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) is a recently developed nonhuman primate model of multiple
sclerosis. Here, Bert 't Hart and colleagues compare this model to EAE in rhesus 
monkeys, highlighting autoimmune mechanisms in CNS inflammation and
demyelination, including the role of major histocompatibility complex restriction
and preclinical evaluation of innovative immunotherapies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-5699(00)01627-3 
PMID: 10825741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

