

331. Transl Stroke Res. 2021 Feb;12(1):98-111. doi: 10.1007/s12975-020-00804-1. Epub
2020 Apr 6.

A Reproducible New Model of Focal Ischemic Injury in the Marmoset Monkey: MRI and
Behavioural Follow-Up.

Le Friec A(#)(1), Desmoulin F(#)(1), Demain B(1), Davoust C(1), Robert L(1),
Duval T(1), Rémy F(2), Cirillo C(1), Loubinoux I(3).

Author information: 
(1)ToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center, Inserm, Université de Toulouse, UPS, UMR 
1214 -Inserm/UPSToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center CHU Purpan Pavillon Baudot
Place du Docteur Baylac, 31024 Cedex 3, Toulouse, France.
(2)CerCo, Centre de Recherche Cerveau & Cognition, CNRS, Université de Toulouse, 
UPS, Toulouse, France.
(3)ToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center, Inserm, Université de Toulouse, UPS, UMR 
1214 -Inserm/UPSToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center CHU Purpan Pavillon Baudot
Place du Docteur Baylac, 31024 Cedex 3, Toulouse, France.
isabelle.loubinoux@inserm.fr.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Transl Stroke Res. 2020 May 6;:.

Ischemic stroke mostly affects the primary motor cortex and descending motor
fibres, with consequent motor impairment. Pre-clinical models of stroke with
reproducible and long-lasting sensorimotor deficits in higher-order animals are
lacking. We describe a new method to induce focal brain damage targeting the
motor cortex to study damage to the descending motor tracts in the non-human
primate. Stereotaxic injection of malonate into the primary motor cortex produced
a focal lesion in middle-aged marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Assessment of
sensorimotor function using a neurological scale and testing of forelimb
dexterity and strength lasted a minimum of 12 weeks. Lesion evolution was
followed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 24 h, 1 week, 4 and 12 weeks
post-injury and before sacrifice for immunohistochemistry. Our model produced
consistent lesions of the motor cortex, subcortical white matter and caudate
nucleus. All animals displayed partial spontaneous recovery with long lasting
motor deficits of force (54% loss) and dexterity (≈ 70% loss). Clearly visible T2
hypointensity in the white matter was observed with MRI and corresponded to areas
of chronic gliosis in the internal capsule and lenticular fasciculus. We describe
a straightforward procedure to reproducibly injure the motor cortex in the
marmoset monkey, causing long-lasting motor deficits. The MRI signature reflects 
Wallerian degeneration and remote injury of corticospinal and corticopontine
tracts, as well as subcortical motor loops. Our model may be suitable for the
testing of therapies for post-stroke recovery, particularly in the chronic phase.

DOI: 10.1007/s12975-020-00804-1 
PMID: 32249405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Am J Primatol. 2020 Jun;82(6):e23128. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23128. Epub 2020 Apr 4.

The aging common marmoset's immune system: From junior to senior.

Mietsch M(1)(2), Paqué K(1), Drummer C(3), Stahl-Hennig C(1), Roshani B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Infection Models, German Primate Center, Goettingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Laboratory Animal Science, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany.
(3)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Goettingen, Germany.

The social, health, and economic challenges of a steadily increasing aging
population demand the use of appropriate translational animal models to address
questions like healthy aging, vaccination strategies, or potential interventions 
during the aging process. Due to their genetic proximity to humans, especially
nonhuman primates (NHPs) with a relatively short generation period compared to
humans, qualify as excellent animal models for these purposes. The use of common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in gerontology research steadily increased over
the last decades, yet important information about their aging parameters are
still missing. We therefore aimed to characterize their aging immune system by
comprehensive flow cytometric phenotyping of blood immune cells from juvenile,
adult, aging, and geriatric animals. Aged and geriatric animals displayed clear
signs of immunosenescence. A decline in CD4/CD8 ratio, increased expression of
HLA-DR and PD-1, higher frequencies of CD95+ memory cells, alterations in
cytokine secretion, and a decline in the proliferative capacity proved T cell
senescence in aging marmosets. Also, the B cell compartment was affected by
age-related changes: while overall B cell numbers remained stable with advancing 
age, expression of the activation marker CD80 increased and immunoglobulin M
expression decreased. Interestingly, marmoset B cell memory subset distribution
rather mirrored the human situation than that of other NHP. CD21+ CD27- naïve B
cell frequencies decreased while those of CD21- CD27- tissue memory B cells
increased with age. Furthermore, frequencies and numbers of NK cells as part of
the innate immune system declined with advancing age. Thus, the observed
immunological changes in common marmosets over their life span revealed several
similarities to age-related changes in humans and encourages further studies to
strengthen the common marmoset as a potential aging model.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23128 
PMID: 32246726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

