

3310. Immunol Today. 2000 Jun;21(6):290-7.

A new primate model for multiple sclerosis in the common marmoset.

't Hart BA(1), van Meurs M, Brok HP, Massacesi L, Bauer J, Boon L, Bontrop RE,
Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC), PO Box 3306,
2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in outbred marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) is a recently developed nonhuman primate model of multiple
sclerosis. Here, Bert 't Hart and colleagues compare this model to EAE in rhesus 
monkeys, highlighting autoimmune mechanisms in CNS inflammation and
demyelination, including the role of major histocompatibility complex restriction
and preclinical evaluation of innovative immunotherapies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-5699(00)01627-3 
PMID: 10825741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3311. Mol Hum Reprod. 2000 Jun;6(6):504-9.

Spontaneous luteinization of antral marmoset follicles in vitro.

Wehrenberg U(1), Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, E.M.A.-University, Friedrich Loeffler Strasse 23c,
D-17487 Greifswald, Germany. wehrenbe@rz.uni-greifswald.de

Large non-luteinized follicles of the marmoset monkey were cultured for up to 96 
h in the presence of substances that are known to induce luteinization, i.e. LH, 
transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta and cyclic AMP. The state of the basal
lamina, and the expression of connexin-43, alpha(2) integrin subunit and TGF-beta
receptor type II (TbetaR-II) were chosen as parameters to judge the progress of
luteinization. Antral follicles, cultured for 1 h, were not luteinized, as shown 
by an intact basal lamina, strong immunoreactivity of connexin-43 in granulosa
cells, and no expression of TbetaR-II in the theca layer. After 12 h, most
follicles showed a dissolution of the basal lamina, a faint reactivity of
connexin-43, high expression of TbetaR-II in theca- and outer granulosa cells and
high expression of alpha(2) integrin subunit in granulosa cells bordering at the 
basement membrane; all of which indicate luteinization. After 96 h of culture,
luteal structures (e.g. corpora lutea accessoria) had developed. This was true
for both non-stimulated and stimulated follicles. Our results strongly suggest
that antral follicles luteinize spontaneously. The decisive determinant appears
to be the follicular stage.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/6.6.504 
PMID: 10825366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

