

3313. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2000 Jul;25(5):463-77.

Reduced adrenocortical responsiveness to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in
socially subordinate female marmoset monkeys.

Saltzman W(1), Prudom SL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI 53715-1299, USA. saltzman@primate.wisc.edu

Socially subordinate female common marmoset monkeys undergo pronounced, chronic
reductions in basal plasma cortisol levels, which appear to result both from
socially induced suppression of reproductive hormones and from direct effects of 
social subordination. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that this cortisol 
suppression is mediated by reduced adrenocortical responsiveness to
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Dominant, subordinate, and ovariectomized
females were given dexamethasone (5 mg/kg, IM), followed the next morning by
human ACTH(1-39) (10 microg/kg, IV) or sterile saline (0.5 ml/kg, IV); blood
samples were collected at -20 through 150 min from ACTH or saline treatment and
assayed for cortisol. ACTH, but not saline, caused a marked elevation of plasma
cortisol levels. Prior to ACTH treatment, dominant females tended to have higher 
dexamethasone-suppressed cortisol levels than subordinate and ovariectomized
females. After ACTH treatment, dominant females had significantly higher cortisol
concentrations, as well as higher peak and net integrated cortisol responses to
ACTH, than did subordinate and ovariectomized animals; the latter two groups
showed comparable cortisol responses to ACTH. These results suggest that dampened
adrenocortical responsiveness to ACTH contributes to chronic reductions in
cortisol levels in subordinate female marmosets and may be mediated by
suppression of reproductive hormones.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4530(00)00003-2 
PMID: 10818281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3314. J Exp Med. 2000 May 15;191(10):1799-806.

Human nerve growth factor protects common marmosets against autoimmune
encephalomyelitis by switching the balance of T helper cell type 1 and 2
cytokines within the central nervous system.

Villoslada P(1), Hauser SL, Bartke I, Unger J, Heald N, Rosenberg D, Cheung SW,
Mobley WC, Fisher S, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California at San Francisco, San
Francisco, California 94143-0435, USA.

Comment in
    J Exp Med. 2000 May 15;191(10):1625-30.

Multiple sclerosis is a demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system
(CNS), in which an immune attack directed against myelin constituents causes
myelin destruction and death of oligodendrocytes, the myelin-producing cells.
Here, the efficacy of nerve growth factor (NGF), a growth factor for neurons and 
oligodendrocytes, in promoting myelin repair was evaluated using the
demyelinating model of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the
common marmoset. Surprisingly, we found that NGF delayed the onset of clinical
EAE and, pathologically, prevented the full development of EAE lesions. We
demonstrate by immunocytochemistry that NGF exerts its antiinflammatory effect by
downregulating the production of interferon gamma by T cells infiltrating the
CNS, and upregulating the production of interleukin 10 by glial cells in both
inflammatory lesions of EAE and normal-appearing CNS white matter. Thus, NGF,
currently under investigation in human clinical trials as a neuronal trophic
factor, may be an attractive candidate for therapy of autoimmune demyelinating
disorders.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.191.10.1799 
PMCID: PMC2193155
PMID: 10811872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

