

3315. J Exp Med. 2000 May 15;191(10):1625-30.

Surprising pleiotropy of nerve growth factor in the treatment of experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

Ransohoff RM(1), Trebst C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, The Lerner Research Institute and the Mellen
Center for Multiple Sclerosis Treatment and Research, The Cleveland Clinic
Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. ransohr@ccf.org

Comment on
    J Exp Med. 2000 May 15;191(10):1799-806.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.191.10.1625 
PMCID: PMC2193159
PMID: 10811856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3316. Brain Res. 2000 May 12;864(2):163-75.

Distribution of NADPH-diaphorase cells in visual and somatosensory cortex in four
mammalian species.

Franca JG(1), Volchan E, Jain N, Catania KC, Oliveira RL, Hess FF, Jablonka M,
Rocha-Miranda CE, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Neurobiologia II, Instituto de Biofísica Carlos Chagas Filho,
CCS-Bl. 6, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The distribution of the well-labeled nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate 
diaphorase (NADPHd) Type I neurons was evaluated in the isocortex of four
mammalian species: the Didelphis opossum, the Monodelphis opossum, the rat and
the marmoset. In Didelphis opossum, laminar distribution was examined in
tangential and non-tangential sections. The density increases from superficial to
deep layers of the gray matter. In rats' tangential sections, infragranular and
supragranular layers have higher density than layer IV. Cell density measurements
in the visual and the somatosensory cortices were compared in tangential sections
from flattened hemispheres of the four species. Somatosensory areas were
identified histochemically in rat (barrel fields) and marmoset (S1 and S2/PV). In
the opossums, areas S1 and S2/PV were identified by multiunit recording. Except
in the rat, primary visual cortex (V1) was labeled histochemically by NADPHd
and/or cytochrome oxidase. In the four species, cell density in somatosensory
cortex was significantly higher than in visual cortex. Taken together these
results demonstrate that NADPHd Type I neurons are not homogeneously distributed 
in the isocortex of these mammals. In conclusion, the tangential distribution of 
Type I neurons in the sensory areas examined, but not its laminar distribution,
was similar in the four species. Given that rats, marmosets and opossums are
distantly related species, and that the latter are considered to have more
'generalized' brains, it is conceivable that this pattern of tangential
distribution of Type I neurons is a general feature of mammalian isocortex.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)02058-8 
PMID: 10802023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

