

3321. Brain Res Bull. 2000 May 1;52(1):21-9.

Clomethiazole protects against hemineglect in a primate model of stroke.

Marshall JW(1), Cross AJ, Jackson DM, Green AR, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. jwbm2@cus.cam.ac.uk

Permanent occlusion of the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery (pMCAO) in
the marmoset, a New World species of monkey, produces unilateral functional
deficits, including motor neglect with the contralesional arm and contralesional 
spatial hemineglect. In this study we examined whether clomethiazole, a drug
which modulates the gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) receptor, reduced the severity of 
the hemineglect and other deficits in this primate model of stroke. Nine monkeys 
received pMCAO; 1 h later four of the nine were administered clomethiazole by
intraperitoneal injection and subcutaneous implantation of osmotic mini-pumps,
which released clomethiazole for 48 h. The monkeys had been trained and tested on
a number of behavioral tasks prior to surgery and were re-tested 3 and 10 weeks
later. Three weeks after pMCAO, monkeys treated with clomethiazole had a
significantly reduced degree of spatial neglect compared to untreated controls.
Clomethiazole was not effective against the severe contralesional motor
impairment in the current study, although it ameliorated a somewhat less severe
motor deficit in a previous study in which the more distal, M2 segment of the
middle cerebral artery had been occluded. Postmortem analysis of the brains
showed that clomethiazole treatment had significantly reduced the area of damage 
in part of the parietal cortex. These data suggest that clomethiazole may reduce 
the neglect that can be a debilitating consequence of right-sided stroke in man.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(99)00275-0 
PMID: 10779698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3322. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2000 Mar;52(1):3-10.

Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression in liver and splenic T
lymphocyte rise are associated with liver histological damage during experimental
hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection in Callithrix jacchus.

Pinto MA(1), Marchevsky RS, Pelajo-Machado M, Santiago MA, Pissurno JW, Fran√ßa
MS, Baptista ML, Gouvea AS, Santana AA, Bertho AL, Schatzmayr HG, Gaspar AM,
Kubelka CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, IOC/FIOCRUZ, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
marcelo@gene.dbbm.fiocruz.br

Callithrix jacchus is considered a reliable animal model for hepatitis A virus
(HAV) infection. All three HAV orally inoculated marmosets developed hepatitis - 
the infection was monitored by continuous virus shedding, high levels of serum
enzyme alanine aminotransferase, specific antibody and seroconversion 3-6 weeks
after HAV inoculation. HAV antigen was detected in liver by immunofluorescence 4 
days post inoculation (PI) and onwards. To gain insight into the biological role 
of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) during immune-related acute liver
injury the enzyme was searched in frozen biopsies: immunofluorescent labeling was
found in the cytoplasm of liver cells mainly Kupffer's cells and spleen
macrophages (CD68+) starting 11 days PI with maximum intensity on the fifth to
sixth week PI. Necroinflammatory liver lesions characteristic of viral hepatitis 
were also observed at 10 days PI with maximum severity at 4 to 6 weeks PI.
Furthermore, T lymphocytes (CD2+) were raised at this time point. No difference
was evident in the frequency of B lymphocytes (CD20+). Therefore, iNOS expression
preceded necroinflammatory liver lesion and maximal immunofluorescence reaction
was coincident with tissue injury, supporting the hypothesis that NO contributes 
to hepatic cytotoxic mechanism but also to virus clearance. The concomitant rise 
in T-lymphocyte population may suggest a role for these cells in this and/or
other independent HAV-induced pathological changes.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-2993(00)80006-8 
PMID: 10779146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

