

3323. J Chromatogr B Biomed Sci Appl. 2000 Jan 28;738(1):129-36.

Automated quantitative determination of the new renin inhibitor CGP 60536 by
high-performance liquid chromatography.

Lefèvre G(1), Gauron S.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, Basle, Switzerland. gilbert.lefevre@pharma.novartis.com

A fully automated high-performance liquid chromatography method with fluorescence
detection for the determination of the renin inhibitor CGP 60536 in animal and
human plasma and urine has been developed and validated. After addition of an
internal standard, the compounds were automatically extracted from 400 microl of 
plasma or urine with methyl alcohol-acetic acid (99:1, v/v) on 100-mg Bond-Elut
CN cartridges using the Gilson ASPEC system. The on-line chromatographic
separation was performed on a LiChrospher 100 RP8 5-microm particle size packed
analytical column (25x0.4 cm I.D.). The mobile phase consisted of
acetonitrile-0.01 M potassium dihydrogenphosphate (65:35, v/v) at a flow-rate of 
0.8 ml/min. The analytes were detected using a fluorescence detector at
excitation and emission wavelengths of 280 and 330 nm, respectively. The limit of
quantitation was established at 4.5 ng/ml in plasma (accuracy 106% and precision 
1%), and 9.0 ng/ml in urine (accuracy 101% and precision 13%). The method was
applied to the investigation of the pharmacokinetics of CGP 60536.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4347(99)00509-5 
PMID: 10778934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3324. J Neurosci Methods. 2000 Jan 31;95(1):13-28.

Rabbit and monkey visual cortex: more than a year of recording with up to 64
microelectrodes.

Porada I(1), Bondar I, Spatz WB, Krüger J.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Biophysik, AG Hirnforschung, Universität Freiburg, Germany.

In the visual cortex of rabbits and a marmoset monkey, 32 and 64 microwires,
respectively, were chronically implanted by an indirect insertion method so that 
the cortex was penetrated from the white matter. For more than 1 year recordings 
of action potentials of good quality were obtained at most electrodes. Recording 
stability was judged by spike shape, spike train autocorrelograms, and spike
rates: within recording sessions, stability was essentially perfect. Periods in
which the signals of several electrodes were stable could last for several days. 
A method of in vivo reconstruction of the electrode locations by micro-X-rays and
subsequent stereophotogrammetry is presented. The aspect of animal welfare is
considered.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0270(99)00139-9 
PMID: 10776811  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

