

3325. Biol Reprod. 2000 May;62(5):1344-51.

Cloning and expression analysis of testis-specific cyclic 3', 5'-adenosine
monophosphate-responsive element modulator activators in the nonhuman primate
(Macaca fascicularis): comparison with other primate and rodent species.

Behr R(1), Hunt N, Ivell R, Wessels J, Weinbauer GF.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, D-48129 MÃ¼nster,
Germany.

The cAMP-responsive element modulator (CREM) gene encodes a transcription factor 
that is essential for spermatogenesis. In mouse testis, several CREM repressors
and activators have been identified. In contrast to the situation for the mouse, 
however, little is known about CREM isoforms in the primate testis. We analyzed
CREM isoforms and mRNA expression in a clinically relevant primate model, the
cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis). A cDNA library was generated from monkey
testis; and two activator isoforms (tau2 with and without exon gamma) were
identified, which displayed high sequence identity to mouse and human isoforms.
The insertion of exon gamma was observed for the first time in the primate
testis. CREM activator expression was confined to the testis, where it was seen
in late pachytene spermatocytes and round spermatids in specific spermatogenic
stages, as revealed by in situ hybridization. Comparison of the mRNA and the
recently described protein expression indicated a lack of translational delay of 
CREM expression. Comparative analysis of testicular CREM expression by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction yielded several transcripts in the rat,
mouse, hamster, and marmoset; two transcripts in cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys;
and one transcript in men. These findings suggest an evolutionary trend from
multiple activator isoforms to a single activator transcript in men.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod62.5.1344 
PMID: 10775186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3326. Respir Physiol. 2000 Apr;120(2):167-77.

The lung of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): ultrastructure and morphometric
data.

Barbier A(1), Bachofen H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Berne, Inselspital, CH-3010,
Berne, Switzerland.

Owing to its small size (body weight 300-400 g), its modest demands on animal
husbandry, and in particular its relatively long life-span (up to 12 years) the
common marmoset (cotton ear marmoset: Callithrix jacchus (Cj)) might be a useful 
animal model to study the adaptive capacity to different energetic demands,
adverse environmental influences such as air pollution, and aging of the lung. In
order to describe the gas exchange apparatus of healthy marmosets as a basis for 
further pulmonary research, the lungs of three young adult animals have been
analysed both qualitatively and quantitatively (by morphometry) at the light and 
electronmicroscopic level. Qualitatively, there is a general similarity in the
architecture and structure of lung parenchyma between marmosets and other
mammals. Quantitatively, the alveolar surface area was found to be 7662+/-1647
cm(2). Capillary surface area and volume were 6000+/-1549 cm(2), and 1.01+/-0.34 
ml, respectively. The harmonic mean thickness of the air-blood barrier was
0.517+/-0.117 microm. These morphometric parameters allowed to estimate the
diffusing capacity for oxygen at 0.0299+/-0.0134 ml O(2) (sec mmHg)(-1). In
comparison with mammals of similar body size (rats, quinea pigs) it appears that 
the marmoset has a higher gas exchanging capacity of the lung, which might
reflect the 'athletic' activity of this small primate. An incidental finding
worth mentioning is the individual variability of septal structures due to
variations in capillary blood volume and hematocrit. The distinction between such
functional variations and subtle pathologic alterations of lung tissue requires a
morphometric analysis at the electron-microscopic level.

DOI: 10.1016/s0034-5687(00)00105-5 
PMID: 10773246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

