

333. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2020 Jul;127(7):1023-1029. doi:
10.1007/s00702-020-02185-z. Epub 2020 Apr 3.

Combined mGlu2 orthosteric stimulation and positive allosteric modulation
alleviates L-DOPA-induced psychosis-like behaviours and dyskinesia in the
parkinsonian marmoset.

Nuara SG(1), Hamadjida A(2), Kwan C(2), Bédard D(2), Frouni I(3), Gourdon JC(1), 
Huot P(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(3)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Division of Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, Movement Disorder Clinic, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

In recent studies performed in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease (PD), we have demonstrated 
that activation of the metabotropic glutamate 2 (mGlu2) receptor with the
orthosteric agonist (OA) LY-354,740 and the positive allosteric modulator (PAM)
LY-487,379 is effective at alleviating both dyskinesia and psychosis-like
behaviours (PLBs) triggered by the administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine
(L-DOPA). Because mGlu2 OAs and PAMs bind to different sites on the receptor, we 
hypothesised that greater reductions of dyskinesia and PLBs would be obtained
upon concurrent administration of LY-354,740 and LY-487,379. In experiments
performed in six MPTP-lesioned marmosets, we administered LY-354,740 (0.1 mg/kg),
LY-487,379 (1 mg/kg), LY-354,740 (0.1 mg/kg) + LY-487,379 (1 mg/kg), or vehicle, 
in combination with L-DOPA and determined the effect of each treatment on
dyskinesia, PLBs, and parkinsonism. When compared to vehicle, LY-354,740 and
LY-487,379, administered alone or concurrently, significantly reduced dyskinesia.
The combination LY-354,740 + LY-487,379 provided mild additional benefit when
compared to LY-487,379 alone, but not compared to LY-354,740. For PLBs, when
compared to vehicle treatment, LY-354,740, LY-487,379, and combination thereof
all alleviated the abnormal behaviours, but the combination
LY-354,740 + LY-487,379 did not provide greater relief than either drug alone.
The anti-parkinsonian effect of L-DOPA was not altered by any of the treatments. 
Our results provide further evidence that mGlu2 activation might be a novel
approach to treat L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and dopaminergic psychosis in PD.
However, they do not suggest that greater therapeutic effect would be achieved
upon combining an mGlu2 OA and an mGlu2 PAM.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-020-02185-z 
PMID: 32246204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Genes (Basel). 2020 Apr 1;11(4). pii: E383. doi: 10.3390/genes11040383.

Evolution of the Human Chromosome 13 Synteny: Evolutionary Rearrangements,
Plasticity, Human Disease Genes and Cancer Breakpoints.

Scardino R(1), Milioto V(1), Proskuryakova AA(2), Serdyukova NA(2), Perelman
PL(2), Dumas F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and
Technologies (STEBICEF), University of Palermo, 90100 Palermo, Italy.
(2)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, SB RAS, 630090 Novosibirsk,
Russia.

The history of each human chromosome can be studied through comparative
cytogenetic approaches in mammals which permit the identification of human
chromosomal homologies and rearrangements between species. Comparative banding,
chromosome painting, Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) mapping and genome
data permit researchers to formulate hypotheses about ancestral chromosome forms.
Human chromosome 13 has been previously shown to be conserved as a single
syntenic element in the Ancestral Primate Karyotype; in this context, in order to
study and verify the conservation of primate chromosomes homologous to human
chromosome 13, we mapped a selected set of BAC probes in three platyrrhine
species, characterised by a high level of rearrangements, using fluorescence in
situ hybridisation (FISH). Our mapping data on Saguinus oedipus, Callithrix
argentata and Alouatta belzebul provide insight into synteny of human chromosome 
13 evolution in a comparative perspective among primate species, showing
rearrangements across taxa. Furthermore, in a wider perspective, we have revised 
previous cytogenomic literature data on chromosome 13 evolution in eutherian
mammals, showing a complex origin of the eutherian mammal ancestral karyotype
which has still not been completely clarified. Moreover, we analysed biomedical
aspects (the OMIM and Mitelman databases) regarding human chromosome 13, showing 
that this autosome is characterised by a certain level of plasticity that has
been implicated in many human cancers and diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/genes11040383 
PMCID: PMC7230465
PMID: 32244767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

