

3338. Br J Pharmacol. 2000 Apr;129(7):1355-64.

The effects of central aromatic amino acid DOPA decarboxylase inhibition on the
motor actions of L-DOPA and dopamine agonists in MPTP-treated primates.

Treseder SA(1), Jackson M, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Hodgkin Building, Division of
Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School of Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

1. Endogenous L-DOPA may act as a neuromodulator contributing to the production
of motor activity. We now investigate the effects of the centrally acting
aromatic amino acid dopa decarboxylase (AADC) inhibitor NSD-1015 (3-hydroxybenzyl
hydrazine) on the motor actions of L-DOPA and dopamine agonist drugs in MPTP
treated common marmosets. 2. Pretreatment with NSD-1015 (10 - 50 mg kg(-1); i.p.)
worsened baseline motor deficits in MPTP-treated common marmosets. Similarly, it 
abolished L-DOPA (5 - 18 mg kg(-1) s.c.) induced locomotor activity and reversal 
of disability. NSD-1015 pretreatment inhibited dopamine formation and elevated
L-DOPA levels in plasma. 3. The increase in locomotor activity and improvement in
disability produced by the administration of the D-1 agonist A-86929 (0.03 - 0.
04 mg kg(-1) s.c.) or the D-2 agonist quinpirole (0.05 - 0.3 mg kg(-1) i.p.) was 
abolished by NSD-1015 (25 mg kg(-1) i.p.) pretreatment. While the effects of a
low dose combination of A-86929 (0.04 mg kg(-1) s.c.) and quinpirole (0.05 mg
kg(-1) i.p.) were inhibited by NSD-1015 (25 mg kg(-1) i.p.), there was little
effect on the action of a high dose combination of these drugs (0.08 mg kg(-1)
A-86929 and 0.1 mg kg(-1) quinpirole). 4. Following central AADC inhibition with 
NSD-1015 (25 mg kg(-1) i.p.), locomotor behaviour induced by administration of
high dose combinations of A-86929 (0.08 mg kg(-1) s.c.) and quinpirole (0.1 mg
kg(-1) i.p.) was unaffected by L-DOPA (5 mg kg(-1) s.c.) pretreatment. 5. These
results do not support a role for endogenous L-DOPA in spontaneous or drug
induced locomotor activity. Rather, they strengthen the argument for the
importance of endogenous dopaminergic tone in the motor actions of dopamine
agonists.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0703189 
PMCID: PMC1571971
PMID: 10742291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3339. Exp Neurol. 2000 Apr;162(2):321-7.

Combined use of the adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW-6002 with L-DOPA or with
selective D1 or D2 dopamine agonists increases antiparkinsonian activity but not 
dyskinesia in MPTP-treated monkeys.

Kanda T(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Pearce RK, Nakamura J, Kase H, Kuwana Y, Jenner
P.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.

The novel selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist KW-6002 improves motor
disability in MPTP-treated parkinsonian marmosets without provoking dyskinesia.
In this study we have investigated whether KW-6002 in combination with l-DOPA or 
selective D1 or D2 dopamine receptor agonists enhances antiparkinsonian activity 
in MPTP-treated common marmosets. Combination of KW-6002 with the selective
dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole or the D1 receptor agonist SKF80723
produced an additive improvement in motor disability. Coadministration of KW-6002
with a low dose of L-DOPA also produced an additive improvement in motor
disability, and increased locomotor activity. The ability of KW-6002 to enhance
antiparkinsonian activity was more marked with L-DOPA and quinpirole than with
the D1 agonist. However, despite producing an enhanced antiparkinsonian response 
KW-6002 did not exacerbate L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common
marmosets previously primed to exhibit dyskinesia by prior exposure to L-DOPA.
Selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists, such as KW-6002, may be one means
of reducing the dosage of L-DOPA used in treating Parkinson's disease and are
potentially a novel approach to treating the illness both as monotherapy and in
combination with dopaminergic drugs.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7350 
PMID: 10739638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

