

3339. Exp Neurol. 2000 Apr;162(2):321-7.

Combined use of the adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW-6002 with L-DOPA or with
selective D1 or D2 dopamine agonists increases antiparkinsonian activity but not 
dyskinesia in MPTP-treated monkeys.

Kanda T(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Pearce RK, Nakamura J, Kase H, Kuwana Y, Jenner
P.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.

The novel selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist KW-6002 improves motor
disability in MPTP-treated parkinsonian marmosets without provoking dyskinesia.
In this study we have investigated whether KW-6002 in combination with l-DOPA or 
selective D1 or D2 dopamine receptor agonists enhances antiparkinsonian activity 
in MPTP-treated common marmosets. Combination of KW-6002 with the selective
dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole or the D1 receptor agonist SKF80723
produced an additive improvement in motor disability. Coadministration of KW-6002
with a low dose of L-DOPA also produced an additive improvement in motor
disability, and increased locomotor activity. The ability of KW-6002 to enhance
antiparkinsonian activity was more marked with L-DOPA and quinpirole than with
the D1 agonist. However, despite producing an enhanced antiparkinsonian response 
KW-6002 did not exacerbate L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common
marmosets previously primed to exhibit dyskinesia by prior exposure to L-DOPA.
Selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists, such as KW-6002, may be one means
of reducing the dosage of L-DOPA used in treating Parkinson's disease and are
potentially a novel approach to treating the illness both as monotherapy and in
combination with dopaminergic drugs.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7350 
PMID: 10739638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3340. Proc Biol Sci. 2000 Mar 7;267(1442):439-44.

Demonstration of a foraging advantage for trichromatic marmosets (Callithrix
geoffroyi) dependent on food colour.

Caine NG(1), Mundy NI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University, San Marcos, CA 92096,
USA.

It has been suggested that the major advantage of trichromatic over dichromatic
colour vision in primates is enhanced detection of red/yellow food items such as 
fruit against the dappled foliage of the forest. This hypothesis was tested by
comparing the foraging ability of dichromatic and trichromatic Geoffroy's
marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi) for orange- and green-coloured cereal balls
(Kix) in a naturalized captive setting. Trichromatic marmosets found a
significantly greater number of orange, but not green, Kix than dichromatic
marmosets when the food items were scattered on the floor of the cage (at a
potential detection distance of up to 6 m from the animals). Under these
conditions, trichromats but not dichromats found significantly more orange than
green Kix, an effect that was also evident when separately examining the data
from the end of the trials, when the least conspicuous Kix were left. In
contrast, no significant differences among trichromats and dichromats were seen
when the Kix were placed in trays among green wood shavings (detection distance <
0.5 m). These results support an advantage for trichromats in detecting
orange-coloured food items against foliage, and also suggest that this advantage 
may be less important at shorter distances. If such a foraging advantage for
trichromats is present in the wild it might be sufficient to maintain the colour 
vision polymorphism seen in the majority of New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2000.1019 
PMCID: PMC1690559
PMID: 10737399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

