

3342. Mol Hum Reprod. 2000 Apr;6(4):337-43.

Leukaemia inhibitory factor in the endometrium of the common marmoset Callithrix 
jacchus: localization, expression and hormonal regulation.

Kholkute SD(1), Katkam RR, Nandedkar TD, Puri CP.

Author information: 
(1)Primate Biology Division, Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR),
Jehangir Merwanji Street, Parel, Mumbai 400 012, India.

In the present study, changes in the immunohistochemical localization of
leukaemia inhibitory factor (LIF) in the endometrium during various phases of
ovarian cyclicity of the common marmoset have been reported. LIF was absent
during the early and late follicular phases. LIF was observed mainly in the
cytoplasm of the endometrial glands during the early luteal phase, reached
maximum intensity during the mid-luteal phase and declined again during late
luteal phase. In-situ hybridization also showed a similar cyclic pattern in the
expression of LIF. Stromal cells only showed signals for LIF during the
mid-luteal phase. In ovariectomized marmosets, graded dosages of oestradiol alone
failed to induce the appearance of LIF protein. Progesterone treatment following 
oestradiol priming, however, induced distinct glandular localization of LIF,
indicating that LIF is a progesterone-dependent protein. Thus endometrial LIF is 
under maternal control and is secreted in response to the increased progesterone 
concentrations in circulation. It is possible that high concentrations of LIF
during mid-luteal phase may prepare the endometrium for blastocyst implantation
in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/6.4.337 
PMID: 10729316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3343. Neuropharmacology. 2000 Feb 14;39(4):547-52.

The 5-HT1A antagonist, WAY 100 635, alleviates cognitive impairments induced by
dizocilpine (MK-801) in monkeys.

Harder JA(1), Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)The School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, W. Yorks, UK.
j.a.harder@bradford.ac.uk

Central glutamate neurotransmission is modulated by an upregulatory cholinergic
influence and an inhibitory serotonergic influence. In Alzheimer's disease,
cognitive decline is associated with loss of both glutamatergic and cholinergic
neurones (Francis et al., 1992, Progress in Neurobiology 39, 517-545). While
therapeutic strategies for alleviating this cognitive decline have concentrated
on restoring cholinergic tone, we suggest that 5-HT1A antagonists also have the
potential to alleviate the cognitive symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. Previous
studies have shown that dizocilpine (MK-801), a glutamatergic antagonist acting
at the NMDA receptor, produces learning impairments in the common marmoset, a
non-human primate. Specifically, it impairs the acquisition of shape
discrimination and visuospatial conditional tasks, at doses that do not affect
locomotor behaviour or coordination (Harder et al., 1998, Society for
Neuroscience Abstracts 23(1), 219). In the present study we investigated the
effects of WAY 100 635, a 5-HT1A antagonist, on the cognitive deficits induced by
dizocilpine. The number of trials required to learn each type of task under
combined treatment with dizocilpine and WAY 100 635 was significantly lower than 
under dizocilpine treatment alone, and did not differ significantly from the
number of trials required under saline, demonstrating that the cognitive effects 
of glutamatergic blockade can be overcome by treatment with a 5-HT1A antagonist.

DOI: 10.1016/s0028-3908(99)00179-3 
PMID: 10728875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

