

3344. Br J Pharmacol. 2000 Mar;129(6):1075-88.

BIIE0246, a potent and highly selective non-peptide neuropeptide Y Y(2) receptor 
antagonist.

Dumont Y(1), Cadieux A, Doods H, Pheng LH, Abounader R, Hamel E, Jacques D,
Regoli D, Quirion R.

Author information: 
(1)Douglas Hospital Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, McGill University,
6875 LaSalle Blvd., Verdun, QC, H4H 1R3, Canada.

1. BIIE0246, a newly synthesized non-peptide neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y(2) receptor
antagonist, was able to compete with high affinity (8 to 15 nM) for specific
[(125)I]PYY(3 - 36) binding sites in HEK293 cells transfected with the rat Y(2)
receptor cDNA, and in rat brain and human frontal cortex membrane homogenates. 2.
Interestingly, in rat brain homogenates while NPY, C2-NPY and PYY(3 - 36)
inhibited all specific [(125)I]PYY(3 - 36) labelling, BIIE0246 failed to compete 
for all specific binding suggesting that [(125)I]PYY(3 - 36) recognized, in
addition to the Y(2) subtype, another population of specific NPY binding sites,
most likely the Y(5) receptor. 3. Quantitative receptor autoradiographic data
confirmed the presence of [(125)I]PYY(3 - 36)/BIIE0246-sensitive (Y(2))
and-insensitive (Y(5)) binding sites in the rat brain as well as in the marmoset 
monkey and human hippocampal formation. 4. In the rat vas deferens and dog
saphenous vein (two prototypical Y(2) bioassays), BIIE0246 induced parallel
shifts to the right of NPY concentration-response curves with pA(2) values of 8.1
and 8.6, respectively. In the rat colon (a Y(2)/Y(4) bioassay), BIIE0246 (1
microM) completely blocked the contraction induced by PYY(3 - 36), but not that
of [Leu(31), Pro(34)]NPY (a Y(1), Y(4) and Y(5) agonist) and hPP (a Y(4) and Y(5)
agonist). Additionally, BIIE0246 failed to alter the contractile effects of NPY
in prototypical Y(1) in vitro bioassays. 5. Taken together, these results
demonstrate that BIIE0246 is a highly potent, high affinity antagonist selective 
for the Y(2) receptor subtype. It should prove most useful to establish further
the functional role of the Y(2) receptor in the organism.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0703162 
PMCID: PMC1571943
PMID: 10725255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3345. Behav Neurosci. 2000 Feb;114(1):3-17.

The effect of dopamine depletion from the caudate nucleus of the common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) on tests of prefrontal cognitive function.

Collins P(1), Wilkinson LS, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

This study examined the effects of depletion of dopamine from the caudate nucleus
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), on tasks sensitive to prefrontal
damage (attentional set-shifting and spatial delayed response). There was a
marked impairment in performance on the spatial delayed response task, but
performance on the attentional set-shifting task was relatively preserved except 
for an impairment in re-engagement of a previously relevant perceptual dimension.
This pattern of impairment is distinct from that seen after excitotoxic lesions
of the prefrontal cortex and in patients with Parkinson's disease. Though it is
not possible to identify specific cognitive functions that are independent of
dopaminergic modulation of the caudate nucleus, due to the partial nature of the 
lesion, the results do provide insight into those cognitive processes that appear
most dependent on caudate dopamine.

DOI: 10.1037//0735-7044.114.1.3 
PMID: 10718258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

