

3346. Drug Metabol Drug Interact. 1999;15(4):223-37.

Evidence for the biosynthesis of A glucuronide conjugate of (S)-(-)-nicotine, but
not (S)-(-)-cotinine or (+/-)-trans-3'-hydroxycotinine by marmoset hepatic
microsomes.

Tsai MC(1), Gorrod JW.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Unit, John Tabor Laboratories, University of Essex, Colchester, UK.

Recently, the detection of urinary glucuronide conjugates of nicotine and its two
major metabolites, trans-3'-hydroxycotinine and cotinine, showed that
glucuronidation is an important pathway of nicotine metabolism in humans.
(S)-(-)-Nicotine-N(+)-1-beta-glucuronide (quaternary N-glucuronide with linkage
through the pyridino-nitrogen of nicotine) was shown to be an important nicotine 
metabolite of humans in vivo. The present study was undertaken to develop an
animal model for this process, in order to ascertain the factors influencing
quaternary N-glucuronide formation. (S)-(-)-Nicotine-N(+)-1-beta-glucuronide was 
formed in vitro when [2'-14C]-nicotine was incubated with Triton X-100 activated 
marmoset hepatic microsomes in the presence of uridine diphosphoglucuronic acid; 
it was not formed when activated microsomal preparations of rabbit, guinea-pig,
or rat were used as enzyme source. The glucuronide was characterised by
comparison with authentic synthetic (S)-(-)-nicotine-N(+)-1-beta-glucuronide
using HPLC. The rate of formation of the glucuronide was almost linear during up 
to four hours of incubation, but still only accounted for a maximum of 6.0% of
the available substrate at the end of five hours incubation. The synthetic and
biosynthetic (S)-(-)-nicotine-N(+)-1-beta-glucuronides were hydrolysed by
beta-glucuronidase and alkali, but were resistant to acid hydrolysis. The results
support the concept that the marmoset may be a good animal species to mimic man
in studies of nicotine metabolism during exposure to tobacco smoke. In vitro
studies using (+/-)-trans-3'-hydroxycotinine or (S)-(-)-cotinine (as potential
substrate) and [14C]-uridine diphospho-glucuronic acid (as cofactor) failed to
produce any new radiolabelled glucuronide when the above microsomal preparations 
were used.

DOI: 10.1515/dmdi.1999.15.4.223 
PMID: 10716038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3347. Br J Pharmacol. 2000 Feb;129(3):420-3.

Pharmacological profile of BIBN4096BS, the first selective small molecule CGRP
antagonist.

Doods H(1), Hallermayer G, Wu D, Entzeroth M, Rudolf K, Engel W, Eberlein W.

Author information: 
(1)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG, Biberach, Germany.
henri.doods@bc.boehringer-ingelheim.com

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is one of the most potent endogenous
vasodilators known. This peptide is increased during migraine attacks and has
been implicated in the pathogenesis of migraine headache. Here we report on the
first small molecule selective CGRP antagonist: BIBN4096BS. In vitro, this
compound is extremely potent at primate CGRP receptors exhibiting an affinity
(Ki) for human CGRP receptors of 14.4 +/- 6.3 (n = 4) pM. In an in vivo model,
BIBN4096BS in doses between 1 and 30 micrograms kg-1 (i.v.) inhibited the effects
of CGRP, released by stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion, on facial blood flow
in marmoset monkeys. It is concluded that BIBN4096BS is a potent and selective
CGRP antagonist.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0703110 
PMCID: PMC1571877
PMID: 10711339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

