

3347. Br J Pharmacol. 2000 Feb;129(3):420-3.

Pharmacological profile of BIBN4096BS, the first selective small molecule CGRP
antagonist.

Doods H(1), Hallermayer G, Wu D, Entzeroth M, Rudolf K, Engel W, Eberlein W.

Author information: 
(1)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG, Biberach, Germany.
henri.doods@bc.boehringer-ingelheim.com

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is one of the most potent endogenous
vasodilators known. This peptide is increased during migraine attacks and has
been implicated in the pathogenesis of migraine headache. Here we report on the
first small molecule selective CGRP antagonist: BIBN4096BS. In vitro, this
compound is extremely potent at primate CGRP receptors exhibiting an affinity
(Ki) for human CGRP receptors of 14.4 +/- 6.3 (n = 4) pM. In an in vivo model,
BIBN4096BS in doses between 1 and 30 micrograms kg-1 (i.v.) inhibited the effects
of CGRP, released by stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion, on facial blood flow
in marmoset monkeys. It is concluded that BIBN4096BS is a potent and selective
CGRP antagonist.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0703110 
PMCID: PMC1571877
PMID: 10711339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3348. Drug Metabol Drug Interact. 1999;15(2-3):97-105.

In vitro metabolism of (S)-(-)-[2'-14C]nicotine, using various tissue
preparations of marmoset.

Tsai MC(1), Gorrod JW.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Unit, John Tabor Laboratories, University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, 
Colchester, UK.

The nicotine metabolite profile produced by marmoset liver, lung and kidney
preparations was investigated after 30 minutes incubation of
(S)-(-)-[2'-14C]nicotine. Cation-exchange high performance liquid
radiochromatography was employed to separate and quantify nicotine and its
metabolites. Cotinine-N-oxide (CNO, 0.7%), 3'-hydroxy-cotinine (3'-OH-C, 0.2%),
norcotinine (NORC, 0.9%) and nornicotine (NORN, 0.4%) were formed in the
incubates of marmoset lung homogenates; when marmoset kidney homogenates were
used, CNO, 0.4%; 3'-OH-C, 0.2%; NORC, 0.7%; NORN, 0.7%; and cotinine (COT, 0.4%) 
were detected in the incubates. These nicotine metabolites constituted only
approximately 2.2% and 2.4% of the original nicotine substrate used by lung and
kidney homogenates respectively. When marmoset hepatic homogenates and microsomes
were used, both COT and NORN were detected as the major nicotine metabolites. In 
addition, traces of CNO and 3'-OH-C were also detected in both incubates. The
amounts of COT (6.4%) and NORN (1.8%) in the hepatic homogenates were
approximately twice that of those formed by hepatic microsomes (3.8% and 0.9%,
respectively). Nicotine-1'-N-oxide (NNO, 1.1%) was only detected in the latter
preparation. Under the experimental conditions, these nicotine metabolites
constituted only 8.2% and 5.8% of the substrate nicotine used in the respective
incubates. The present results showed that both primary C-oxidation pathways,
i.e. cotinine formation and N-demethylation of nicotine, occurred in the lung,
kidney and liver of marmoset in vitro. However, N-oxidation of nicotine was only 
observed when a marmoset hepatic microsomal preparation was used.

DOI: 10.1515/dmdi.1999.15.2-3.97 
PMID: 10707116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

