

3348. Drug Metabol Drug Interact. 1999;15(2-3):97-105.

In vitro metabolism of (S)-(-)-[2'-14C]nicotine, using various tissue
preparations of marmoset.

Tsai MC(1), Gorrod JW.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Unit, John Tabor Laboratories, University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, 
Colchester, UK.

The nicotine metabolite profile produced by marmoset liver, lung and kidney
preparations was investigated after 30 minutes incubation of
(S)-(-)-[2'-14C]nicotine. Cation-exchange high performance liquid
radiochromatography was employed to separate and quantify nicotine and its
metabolites. Cotinine-N-oxide (CNO, 0.7%), 3'-hydroxy-cotinine (3'-OH-C, 0.2%),
norcotinine (NORC, 0.9%) and nornicotine (NORN, 0.4%) were formed in the
incubates of marmoset lung homogenates; when marmoset kidney homogenates were
used, CNO, 0.4%; 3'-OH-C, 0.2%; NORC, 0.7%; NORN, 0.7%; and cotinine (COT, 0.4%) 
were detected in the incubates. These nicotine metabolites constituted only
approximately 2.2% and 2.4% of the original nicotine substrate used by lung and
kidney homogenates respectively. When marmoset hepatic homogenates and microsomes
were used, both COT and NORN were detected as the major nicotine metabolites. In 
addition, traces of CNO and 3'-OH-C were also detected in both incubates. The
amounts of COT (6.4%) and NORN (1.8%) in the hepatic homogenates were
approximately twice that of those formed by hepatic microsomes (3.8% and 0.9%,
respectively). Nicotine-1'-N-oxide (NNO, 1.1%) was only detected in the latter
preparation. Under the experimental conditions, these nicotine metabolites
constituted only 8.2% and 5.8% of the substrate nicotine used in the respective
incubates. The present results showed that both primary C-oxidation pathways,
i.e. cotinine formation and N-demethylation of nicotine, occurred in the lung,
kidney and liver of marmoset in vitro. However, N-oxidation of nicotine was only 
observed when a marmoset hepatic microsomal preparation was used.

DOI: 10.1515/dmdi.1999.15.2-3.97 
PMID: 10707116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3349. J Immunol. 2000 Mar 15;164(6):3193-9.

Unprecedented polymorphism of Mhc-DRB region configurations in rhesus macaques.

Doxiadis GG(1), Otting N, de Groot NG, Noort R, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. doxiadis@bprc.nl

The rhesus macaque is an important model in preclinical transplantation research 
and for the study of chronic and infectious diseases, and so extensive knowledge 
of its MHC (MhcMamu) is needed. Nucleotide sequencing of exon 2 allowed the
detection of 68 Mamu-DRB alleles. Although most alleles belong to loci/lineages
that have human equivalents, identical Mhc-DRB alleles are not shared between
humans and rhesus macaques. The number of -DRB genes present per haplotype can
vary from two to seven in the rhesus macaque, whereas it ranges from one to four 
in humans. Within a panel of 210 rhesus macaques, 24 Mamu-DRB region
configurations can be distinguished differing in the number and composition of
loci. None of the Mamu-DRB region configurations has been described for any other
species, and only one of them displays major allelic variation giving rise to a
total of 33 Mamu-DRB haplotypes. In the human population, only five HLA-DRB
region configurations were defined, which in contrast to the rhesus macaque
exhibit extensive allelic polymorphism. In comparison with humans, the
unprecedented polymorphism of the Mamu-DRB region configurations may reflect an
alternative strategy of this primate species to cope with pathogens. Because of
the Mamu-DRB diversity, nonhuman primate colonies used for immunological research
should be thoroughly typed to facilitate proper interpretation of results. This
approach will minimize as well the number of animals necessary to conduct
experiments.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.164.6.3193 
PMID: 10706710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

