

3353. J Neuroimmunol. 1999 Dec;100(1-2):181-9.

Immune regulation and CNS autoimmune disease.

Antel JP(1), Owens T.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit, Montreal Neurological Institute, QC, Canada.
mdan@musica.mcgill.ca

The central nervous system is a demonstrated target of both clinical and
experimental immune mediated disorders. Immune regulatory mechanisms operative at
the levels of the systemic immune system, the blood brain barrier, and within the
CNS parenchyma are important determinants of the intensity and duration of the
tissue directed injury. Convergence of research, involving direct manipulation of
specific cells and molecular mediators in animal models and in vitro analysis of 
human immune and neural cells and tissues, is providing increasing insight into
the role of these immune regulatory functions and their potential to serve as
therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5728(99)00186-1 
PMID: 10695728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3354. Eur J Pharmacol. 2000 Feb 18;389(2-3):193-9.

Motor effects of (-)-OSU6162 in primates with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine
lesions.

Ekesbo A(1), Andr√©n PE, Gunne LM, Sonesson C, Tedroff J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

The effects of the novel compound, (-)-OSU6162
((S)-(-)-3-methylsulfonylphenyl-1-propylpiperidine), on rotational behavior
induced by dopamine receptor agonists was investigated in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. (-)-OSU6162 per
se displayed no effect on the animals' behavior. On the other hand, pretreatment 
with (-)-OSU6162 attenuated rotational behavior induced by apomorphine
(apomorphini hydrochloridum), L-DOPA (3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine), and the
dopamine D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole (trans-(-)-4aR-4,4a,
5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1H-pyrazolol[3,4-g]quinoline hydrochloride),
without inducing motor impairment such as akinesia or dystonia. In addition,
treatment with (-)-OSU6162 for 5 consecutive days almost completely abolished the
rotational behavior provoked by apomorphine and produced a transient
subsensitization of such apomorphine-induced effects after it was discontinued.
Moreover, pretreatment with (-)-OSU6162 in two monkeys augmented the rotational
behavior elicited by the dopamine D1 receptor agonists, SKF-81297
(R(+)-6-chloro-7,8,dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4, 5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine
hydrobromide) and A-77636 ((-)-(1R,
3S)-3-adamantyl-1-(aminomethyl)-3,4-dihydro-5, 6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benzopyran
hydrochloride). The findings indicate that (-)-OSU6162 can exert indirect
state-dependent effects that differentially affect dopamine D1 and dopamine D2
receptor agonist-induced behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(99)00879-1 
PMID: 10688984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

