

3354. Eur J Pharmacol. 2000 Feb 18;389(2-3):193-9.

Motor effects of (-)-OSU6162 in primates with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine
lesions.

Ekesbo A(1), Andr√©n PE, Gunne LM, Sonesson C, Tedroff J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

The effects of the novel compound, (-)-OSU6162
((S)-(-)-3-methylsulfonylphenyl-1-propylpiperidine), on rotational behavior
induced by dopamine receptor agonists was investigated in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. (-)-OSU6162 per
se displayed no effect on the animals' behavior. On the other hand, pretreatment 
with (-)-OSU6162 attenuated rotational behavior induced by apomorphine
(apomorphini hydrochloridum), L-DOPA (3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine), and the
dopamine D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole (trans-(-)-4aR-4,4a,
5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1H-pyrazolol[3,4-g]quinoline hydrochloride),
without inducing motor impairment such as akinesia or dystonia. In addition,
treatment with (-)-OSU6162 for 5 consecutive days almost completely abolished the
rotational behavior provoked by apomorphine and produced a transient
subsensitization of such apomorphine-induced effects after it was discontinued.
Moreover, pretreatment with (-)-OSU6162 in two monkeys augmented the rotational
behavior elicited by the dopamine D1 receptor agonists, SKF-81297
(R(+)-6-chloro-7,8,dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4, 5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine
hydrobromide) and A-77636 ((-)-(1R,
3S)-3-adamantyl-1-(aminomethyl)-3,4-dihydro-5, 6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benzopyran
hydrochloride). The findings indicate that (-)-OSU6162 can exert indirect
state-dependent effects that differentially affect dopamine D1 and dopamine D2
receptor agonist-induced behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(99)00879-1 
PMID: 10688984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3355. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2000 Jan-Apr;71(1-2):22-6.

Prolactin levels of fathers and helpers related to alloparental care in common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Mota MT(1), Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brasil.

Previous studies have suggested that prolactin may play a role in regulating
allocare behaviour in cotton-top tamarins, Saguinus oedipus. In this study, we
investigate the prolactin profile of 3 groups of captive common marmosets,
Callithrix jacchus. Carrying behaviour in this species was observed after
parturition. Prolactin assays of blood samples of both fathers and helpers
(sub-adult non-fathers) in 3 family groups were taken for 8 weeks before and
after birth of the infants. The after-birth condition was divided into 2 groups: 
carrying and non-carrying animals. The results suggest a relationship between
prolactin levels and allocare behaviour, with carrying behaviour being associated
with increased prolactin in both fathers and helpers. This suggests that extra
prolactin is produced in response to physical contact, and may be associated with
carrying behaviour. Also, prolactin production may be related to learning
parental skills in Neotropical primates.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000021727 
PMID: 10686484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

