

3355. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2000 Jan-Apr;71(1-2):22-6.

Prolactin levels of fathers and helpers related to alloparental care in common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Mota MT(1), Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brasil.

Previous studies have suggested that prolactin may play a role in regulating
allocare behaviour in cotton-top tamarins, Saguinus oedipus. In this study, we
investigate the prolactin profile of 3 groups of captive common marmosets,
Callithrix jacchus. Carrying behaviour in this species was observed after
parturition. Prolactin assays of blood samples of both fathers and helpers
(sub-adult non-fathers) in 3 family groups were taken for 8 weeks before and
after birth of the infants. The after-birth condition was divided into 2 groups: 
carrying and non-carrying animals. The results suggest a relationship between
prolactin levels and allocare behaviour, with carrying behaviour being associated
with increased prolactin in both fathers and helpers. This suggests that extra
prolactin is produced in response to physical contact, and may be associated with
carrying behaviour. Also, prolactin production may be related to learning
parental skills in Neotropical primates.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000021727 
PMID: 10686484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3356. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2000 Jan-Apr;71(1-2):6-21.

Hormones associated with non-maternal infant care: a review of mammalian and
avian studies.

Ziegler TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and the Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center,
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53715, USA. ziegler@primated.wisc.edu

Hormonal changes during non-maternal infant care have been demonstrated in many
cooperatively breeding bird species, some monogamous rodents and two species of
New World primates. Coevolution of hormones and social traits may have provided
for the different breeding systems that occur today. Several hormones have been
shown to covary with the breeding systems of vertebrates. Elevated levels of the 
hormone prolactin with male parenting behaviours are common to many birds,
rodents and the callitrichid monkeys Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus oedipus. In 
birds, prolactin may be elevated in both male and female breeders during various 
stages of nest building, egg laying, incubating and feeding of young.
Testosterone levels appear to have an inverse relationship to prolactin levels
during infant care in birds and rodents, but this relationship has not been
examined for primates. In cooperatively breeding birds, helpers who remain at the
nest also have elevated levels of prolactin when displaying parental care
behaviours. Prolactin levels are elevated in helper callitrichid monkeys during
the postpartum period. Monogamous male rodents demonstrate elevated prolactin
levels with parental care behaviour but, in contrast to the birds, the mechanisms
mediating prolactin increase appear to differ for male and female rodents. Two
factors may influence male parental behaviours and hormonal changes: stimuli from
the pregnant female and stimuli from the newborn pups; whereas maternal
behaviours are influenced by the maternal hormones of the female and the pup
stimuli. An experiential factor may also influence male parental behaviours.
Neuropeptides such as oxytocin and vasopressin appear to be involved in male
rodent parental care and there may be an interaction between a series of hormones
and neurosecretions and stimuli from mates and pups. Studies of Saguinus oedipus,
the cotton-top tamarin, suggest that prolactin levels are responsive to stimuli
from contact with infants and the level of infant care experience influences the 
levels of prolactin with male infant care. Father tamarins also have elevated
levels of prolactin before the birth of infants suggesting that cues from the
pregnant female are important. Prolactin's role in parental care may have evolved
from prolactin's role in other reproductive functions. Hormonal regulation of
non-maternal care may occur due to a complex interaction of many hormones and
neurotransmitters. Studies described here should provide the impetus for further 
work on parental care hormones in a wide variety of primates.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000021726 
PMID: 10686483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

