

3359. Neuroreport. 2000 Jan 17;11(1):1-4.

Unipolar brush cells in marmoset cerebellum and cochlear nuclei express
calbindin.

Spatz WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Germany.

Unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are excitatory neurons in the mammalian cerebellum
and cochlear nuclei (CN), including the CN of primates, as shown only recently.
UBCs are readily identified by their expression of the calcium-binding protein
calretinin (CR), except for those of the primate CN that hardly immunostain for
CR. The present findings corroborate the existence of UBCs in the CN of a
primate, Callithrix. Furthermore, evidence is presented for UBCs, in the
cerebellum and a small subpopulation of UBCs in the CN of Callithrix to express
the calcium-binding protein calbindin (CB). This may be unique for Callithrix as 
CB-expressing UBCs have not been recognized in any other mammal. Presence of CB
but not CR in UBCs of the Callithrix CN may indicate a certain interchangeability
between these two calcium-binding proteins.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-200001170-00001 
PMID: 10683819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3360. J Virol. 2000 Mar;74(6):2793-803.

Expression of two related viral early genes in Epstein-Barr virus-associated
tumors.

Xue SA(1), Lu QL, Poulsom R, Karran L, Jones MD, Griffin BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases (Virology), Imperial College School of
Medicine, London W12 ONN, United Kingdom.

The transcription of two early "leftwardly" expressed genes carrying repetitive
sequences, IR2 and IR4, has been studied for Epstein-Barr virus-associated
tumors, and for established B-cell lines, using sequence-specific probes
generated for this purpose. Whereas the IR4 transcript was identified in every
tumor and cell line assessed (except B95-8, with a deletion that removes the
gene), expression of the IR2 gene was restricted to B lymphocytes. Though the
promoters for both transcripts lie within homologous regions (D(L) and D(R)) in
the viral genome, the IR2 promoter appears more tightly regulated. Detailed
characterization of the IR4 transcript from a nasopharyngeal carcinoma tumor,
C15, identifies a sequence variant of this gene that differs from those reported 
for B cells; in situ hybridization methods show transcription to be restricted to
a subset of cells, with the strongest signals seen adjacent to host stroma. As
with B cells in culture (Y. Gao, P. R. Smith, L. Karran, Q. L. Lu, and B. E.
Griffin, J. Virol. 71:84-94, 1997), chemical induction enhanced transcriptional
expression of the IR4 gene in the C15 tumor, although staining for both the IR4
antigen and that of the virus lytic switch, Zta, gave negative results. In a
Burkitt's lymphoma biopsy specimen, however, both proteins were found expressed, 
notably in the same subset of cells. The data here and elsewhere (Gao et al., J. 
Virol., 1997) are consistent with a block to intracellular transport of the
transcript(s) and suggest nuclear roles for it in tumors, possibly in RNA
processing and viral lytic replication. Both roles could be fulfilled in the
absence of translation.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.6.2793-2803.2000 
PMCID: PMC111770
PMID: 10684296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

