

3360. J Virol. 2000 Mar;74(6):2793-803.

Expression of two related viral early genes in Epstein-Barr virus-associated
tumors.

Xue SA(1), Lu QL, Poulsom R, Karran L, Jones MD, Griffin BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases (Virology), Imperial College School of
Medicine, London W12 ONN, United Kingdom.

The transcription of two early "leftwardly" expressed genes carrying repetitive
sequences, IR2 and IR4, has been studied for Epstein-Barr virus-associated
tumors, and for established B-cell lines, using sequence-specific probes
generated for this purpose. Whereas the IR4 transcript was identified in every
tumor and cell line assessed (except B95-8, with a deletion that removes the
gene), expression of the IR2 gene was restricted to B lymphocytes. Though the
promoters for both transcripts lie within homologous regions (D(L) and D(R)) in
the viral genome, the IR2 promoter appears more tightly regulated. Detailed
characterization of the IR4 transcript from a nasopharyngeal carcinoma tumor,
C15, identifies a sequence variant of this gene that differs from those reported 
for B cells; in situ hybridization methods show transcription to be restricted to
a subset of cells, with the strongest signals seen adjacent to host stroma. As
with B cells in culture (Y. Gao, P. R. Smith, L. Karran, Q. L. Lu, and B. E.
Griffin, J. Virol. 71:84-94, 1997), chemical induction enhanced transcriptional
expression of the IR4 gene in the C15 tumor, although staining for both the IR4
antigen and that of the virus lytic switch, Zta, gave negative results. In a
Burkitt's lymphoma biopsy specimen, however, both proteins were found expressed, 
notably in the same subset of cells. The data here and elsewhere (Gao et al., J. 
Virol., 1997) are consistent with a block to intracellular transport of the
transcript(s) and suggest nuclear roles for it in tumors, possibly in RNA
processing and viral lytic replication. Both roles could be fulfilled in the
absence of translation.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.6.2793-2803.2000 
PMCID: PMC111770
PMID: 10684296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3361. J Virol. 2000 Mar;74(6):2550-7.

The Epstein-Barr virus pol catalytic subunit physically interacts with the
BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex.

Fujii K(1), Yokoyama N, Kiyono T, Kuzushima K, Homma M, Nishiyama Y, Fujita M,
Tsurumi T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Virology, Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute, Chikusa-ku,
Nagoya 464-8681, Japan.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded replication proteins that account for the
basic reactions at the replication fork are thought to be the EBV Pol holoenzyme,
consisting of the BALF5 Pol catalytic and the BMRF1 Pol accessory subunits, the
putative helicase-primase complex, comprising the BBLF4, BSLF1, and BBLF2/3
proteins, and the BALF2 single-stranded DNA-binding protein. Immunoprecipitation 
analyses using anti-BSLF1 or anti-BBLF2/3 protein-specific antibody with
clarified lysates of B95-8 cells in a viral productive cycle suggested that the
EBV Pol holoenzyme physically interacts with the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex to
form a large complex. Although the complex was stable in 500 mM NaCl and 1%
NP-40, the BALF5 protein became dissociated in the presence of 0.1% sodium
dodecyl sulfate. Experiments using lysates from insect cells superinfected with
combinations of recombinant baculoviruses capable of expressing each of viral
replication proteins showed that not the BMRF1 Pol accessory subunit but rather
the BALF5 Pol catalytic subunit directly interacts with the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3
complex. Furthermore, double infection with pairs of recombinant viruses revealed
that each component of the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex makes contact with the
BALF5 Pol catalytic subunit. The interactions of the EBV DNA polymerase with the 
EBV putative helicase-primase complex warrant particular attention because they
are thought to coordinate leading- and lagging-strand DNA synthesis at the
replication fork.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.6.2550-2557.2000 
PMCID: PMC111743
PMID: 10684269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

