

3363. Life Sci. 2000;66(2):133-41.

Expression of adhesion receptors on rat limb bud cells and results of treatment
with a thalidomide derivative.

Thiel R(1), Kastner U, Neubert R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Department of Toxicology,
Benjamin Franklin Medical Center, Freie Universit√§t Berlin, Germany.
r.thiel@medizin.fu-berlin.de

The expression of several adhesion surface receptors was studied on cells of
early limb bud development of 58 Wistar rats treated orally with two daily doses 
of the thalidomide derivative EM12 (2 x 50 mg/kg body weight) from day 7 to 10 of
pregnancy. EM12 is a more potent teratogen than thalidomide. Limb bud cells of 56
untreated animals served as controls. The studies revealed that the integrins
CD11a, CD11b, CD18, CD49d, and CD61, as well as the additional adhesion receptors
CD54, CD62L, and the transferrin receptor CD71 were expressed on day 11 of
gestation to various degrees on these embryonic cells. In contrast to results of 
previous studies with a non-human primate (Callithrix jacchus) there was no
down-regulation of any of these receptors on the surface of limb bud cells of the
rat embryos after treatment with EM12. This result is in accordance with the lack
of teratogenicity in this rodent species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(99)00571-8 
PMID: 10666009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3364. Toxicol Sci. 2000 Jan;53(1):84-91.

Subchronic physostigmine pretreatment in marmosets: absence of side effects and
effectiveness against soman poisoning with negligible postintoxication
incapacitation.

Philippens IH(1), Vanwersch RA, Groen B, Olivier B, Bruijnzeel PL, Melchers BP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, TNO Prins Maurits Lab, Rijswijk ZH, The
Netherlands. philippens@pml.tno.nl

Subchronic pretreatment with physostigmine (PHY) (0.0125 mg/kg/h) leading to a
blood acetylcholinesterase inhibition of about 30% caused no side effects when
applied to marmoset monkeys. This was evident on behavioral parameters and on EEG
and cortical visual evoked response. Furthermore, this treatment regime, followed
by atropine as postintoxication therapy, protected the marmosets against
lethality after a 2 x LD50 dose of soman with negligible postintoxication
incapacitation. These findings suggest that a symptom-free pretreatment with
subchronic PHY could protect man sufficiently against severe soman intoxication.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/53.1.84 
PMID: 10653525  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

