

3368. Int J Androl. 1999 Dec;22(6):374-84.

Expression of the integrin subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 in the testes of 
the common marmoset.

Husen B(1), Giebel J, Rune G.

Author information: 
(1)University of Greifswald, Germany.

Integrin subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 were localized in the testis of
pre-pubertal or adult non-human primates (Callithrix jacchus) by
immunofluorescence staining and in situ hybridization. In animals of all ages
subunits alpha 5 and beta 1 were localized in cells of the lamina propria of the 
seminiferous epithelium. In prepubertal animals, the integrin subunits alpha 5,
alpha 6, as well as beta 1, were distributed all over the plasma membrane of
Sertoli cells. In adult animals the integrin subunits were confined to those
plasma membrane regions of Sertoli cells which are assigned to the basal
compartment, including the basement membrane of the seminiferous tubules. Protein
expression of integrin subunits alpha 6 and beta 1 was most pronounced in tubular
stages in which elongated spermatids were not yet present in the adluminal
compartment of the epithelium, suggesting that these integrin subunits are
particularly essential at certain developmental stages of spermatogenesis.
Non-radioactive in situ hybridization revealed that the mRNA for integrin
subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 was expressed by Sertoli cells. In situ
hybridization, together with immunofluorescence data, shows that these integrin
subunits were exclusively synthesized in Sertoli cells. As to functional aspects,
it is concluded that during primate spermatogenesis. Sertoli cell integrins may
be involved in both cell matrix as well as cell-cell interactions, particularly
during early spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2605.1999.00195.x 
PMID: 10624606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3369. Primates. 2000 Jan;41(1):49-61. doi: 10.1007/BF02557461.

Chimaeric and constitutive DNA fingerprints in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Signer EN(1), Anzenberger G(2), Jeffreys AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, LE1 7RH, Leicester, England.
(2)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich-Irchel, 8057, Zürich,
Switzerland.

Marmosets normally produce dizygotic twins sharing placental blood vessels and
exchanging bone marrow cells. Each individual is therefore likely to be a blood
chimaera. To date, marmosets had only been DNA fingerprinted using blood samples 
and probes 33.6 and 33.15, resulting in highly similar fingerprints among litter 
mates and little variation between other individuals, thereby limiting this
method's use for individual identification and parentage testing. In this study, 
novel probes were applied to detect greater polymorphism and to produce
individual-specific DNA fingerprints. As expected, blood DNA profiles of twins
and triplets were virtually identical, confirming chimaerism in this tissue and
identifying litter mates. Furthermore, these profiles were sufficiently variable 
to distinguish between sibs from different litters and between all other
individuals. To produce individual-specific DNA fingerprints, the use of DNA
extracted from tissues poor in leukocytes was essential. The findings demonstrate
that, despite extensive blood chimaerism, marmoset colonies can be effectively
DNA fingerprinted for indicidual identification, zygosity testing, and
relationship studies.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02557461 
PMID: 30545191 

