

3371. Genome Res. 1999 Dec;9(12):1184-8.

Centromere repositioning.

Montefalcone G(1), Tempesta S, Rocchi M, Archidiacono N.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Genetica, 70126 Bari, Italy.

Primate pericentromeric regions recently have been shown to exhibit extraordinary
evolutionary plasticity. In this paper we report an additional peculiar feature
of these regions that we discovered while analyzing, by FISH, the evolutionary
conservation of primate phylogenetic chromosome IX. If the position of the
centromere is not taken into account, a relatively small number of rearrangements
must be invoked to account for interspecific differences. Conversely, if the
centromere is included, a paradox emerges: The position of the centromere seems
to have undergone, in some species, an evolutionary history independent from the 
surrounding markers. A significant number of additional rearrangements must be
proposed to reconcile the order of the markers with centromere position.
Alternatively, the evolutionary emergence of neocentromeres can be postulated.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.9.12.1184 
PMCID: PMC311001
PMID: 10613840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3372. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1999 Nov;13(2):392-404.

The place of Callimico goeldii in the Callitrichine phylogenetic tree: evidence
from von Willebrand factor gene intron II sequences.

Chaves R(1), Sampaio I, Schneider MP, Schneider H, Page SL, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genetica, Universidade Federal do Para, Centro de Ciencias
Biologicas, Belem, Para, 66075-900, Brazil.

Sequences of a 0.9-kb DNA segment spanning intron 11 of the von Willebrand Factor
gene (vWF) were determined for 21 individuals of 19 primate species. The results 
of maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of these vWF sequences are
congruent with previous molecular findings from other nonlinked nuclear genomic
loci which divide the platyrrhine superfamily Ceboidea into three monophyletic
families: Cebidae, Atelidae, and Pitheciidae. The vWF results strongly support
the taxon Callitrichinae as a monophyletic subfamily within Cebidae. The four
extant callitrichine genera constitute tribe Callitrichini, and the basal
branchings within this tribe first separate out Saguinus (tamarins), next
Leontopithecus (lion tamarins), and last the sister genera Callimico (Goeldi's
monkeys) and Callithrix (marmosets). Callithrix divides into three subclades,
with pygmy marmosets (C. pygmaea) as sister of the C. argentata species group and
with the C. jacchus species group as their sister. Fossil and DNA evidence place 
the emergence of the callitrichine clade in the basal cebid radiation at about 20
Ma (million years ago) and the three basal branchings in the callitrichin
radiation at about 13 to 11 Ma. In turn, the branchings separating the three
subclades of Callithrix are placed at about 5 to 4 Ma.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1999.0658 
PMID: 10603266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

