

3372. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1999 Nov;13(2):392-404.

The place of Callimico goeldii in the Callitrichine phylogenetic tree: evidence
from von Willebrand factor gene intron II sequences.

Chaves R(1), Sampaio I, Schneider MP, Schneider H, Page SL, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genetica, Universidade Federal do Para, Centro de Ciencias
Biologicas, Belem, Para, 66075-900, Brazil.

Sequences of a 0.9-kb DNA segment spanning intron 11 of the von Willebrand Factor
gene (vWF) were determined for 21 individuals of 19 primate species. The results 
of maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of these vWF sequences are
congruent with previous molecular findings from other nonlinked nuclear genomic
loci which divide the platyrrhine superfamily Ceboidea into three monophyletic
families: Cebidae, Atelidae, and Pitheciidae. The vWF results strongly support
the taxon Callitrichinae as a monophyletic subfamily within Cebidae. The four
extant callitrichine genera constitute tribe Callitrichini, and the basal
branchings within this tribe first separate out Saguinus (tamarins), next
Leontopithecus (lion tamarins), and last the sister genera Callimico (Goeldi's
monkeys) and Callithrix (marmosets). Callithrix divides into three subclades,
with pygmy marmosets (C. pygmaea) as sister of the C. argentata species group and
with the C. jacchus species group as their sister. Fossil and DNA evidence place 
the emergence of the callitrichine clade in the basal cebid radiation at about 20
Ma (million years ago) and the three basal branchings in the callitrichin
radiation at about 13 to 11 Ma. In turn, the branchings separating the three
subclades of Callithrix are placed at about 5 to 4 Ma.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1999.0658 
PMID: 10603266  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3373. J Neurosci Methods. 1999 Oct 30;93(1):27-35.

A multielectrode implant device for the cerebral cortex.

deCharms RC(1), Blake DT, Merzenich MM.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Laboratory and Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience, UCSF, San
Francisco, CA 94143-0732, USA.

A new class of brain implant technology was developed that allows the
simultaneous recording of voltage signals from many individual neurons in the
cerebral cortex during cognitive tasks. The device allows recording from 49
independent positions spanning a 2 x 2-mm region of neural tissue. The recording 
electrodes are positioned in a square grid with 350 microm spacing, and each
microelectrode can be precisely independently vertically positioned using a
hydraulic microdrive. The device utilizes ultrafine, sharp iridium
microelectrodes that minimize mechanical disturbance of the region near the
electrode tip and produce low noise neuronal recordings. The total weight of this
device is less than 20 g, and the device is reusable. The implant device has been
used for transdural recordings in primary somatosensory and auditory cortices of 
marmosets, owl monkeys, and rats. On a typical day, one-third of the
microelectrodes yield well-discriminated single neuron action potential
waveforms. Additional array electrodes yield lower amplitude driven multiunit
activity. The average signal-to-noise ratio of discriminated action potential
waveforms 6 months after implantation was greater than 9. Simple design
alternatives are discussed that can increase the number of electrodes in the
array and the depths at which dense array recordings can be achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0270(99)00087-4 
PMID: 10598862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

