

3373. J Neurosci Methods. 1999 Oct 30;93(1):27-35.

A multielectrode implant device for the cerebral cortex.

deCharms RC(1), Blake DT, Merzenich MM.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Laboratory and Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience, UCSF, San
Francisco, CA 94143-0732, USA.

A new class of brain implant technology was developed that allows the
simultaneous recording of voltage signals from many individual neurons in the
cerebral cortex during cognitive tasks. The device allows recording from 49
independent positions spanning a 2 x 2-mm region of neural tissue. The recording 
electrodes are positioned in a square grid with 350 microm spacing, and each
microelectrode can be precisely independently vertically positioned using a
hydraulic microdrive. The device utilizes ultrafine, sharp iridium
microelectrodes that minimize mechanical disturbance of the region near the
electrode tip and produce low noise neuronal recordings. The total weight of this
device is less than 20 g, and the device is reusable. The implant device has been
used for transdural recordings in primary somatosensory and auditory cortices of 
marmosets, owl monkeys, and rats. On a typical day, one-third of the
microelectrodes yield well-discriminated single neuron action potential
waveforms. Additional array electrodes yield lower amplitude driven multiunit
activity. The average signal-to-noise ratio of discriminated action potential
waveforms 6 months after implantation was greater than 9. Simple design
alternatives are discussed that can increase the number of electrodes in the
array and the depths at which dense array recordings can be achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0270(99)00087-4 
PMID: 10598862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3374. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1999 Dec;34(6):893-7.

Cloning and characterization of marmoset renin: comparison with human renin.

Valdenaire O(1), Breu V, Giller T, Bur D, Fischli W.

Author information: 
(1)Pharma Division, Preclinical Research, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel,
Switzerland.

The poor interspecies conservation of the renin-angiotensin system prevents the
use of nonprimate in vivo models to test renin inhibitors. Thus the small
New-World monkey marmoset is used in many instances as a model. However, large
differences between the potencies of renin inhibitors as measured in human and
marmoset plasma were observed. To understand this phenomenon, we cloned marmoset 
renin and angiotensinogen. They were highly homologous to their human
counterparts, except for a six-residue deletion in the marmoset renin propeptide.
Human and marmoset recombinant renins were found in vitro to display comparable
activities, suggesting that the observed differences in plasma apparent affinity 
of inhibitors could be due to different plasma protein binding of the inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199912000-00018 
PMID: 10598135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

