

3374. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1999 Dec;34(6):893-7.

Cloning and characterization of marmoset renin: comparison with human renin.

Valdenaire O(1), Breu V, Giller T, Bur D, Fischli W.

Author information: 
(1)Pharma Division, Preclinical Research, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel,
Switzerland.

The poor interspecies conservation of the renin-angiotensin system prevents the
use of nonprimate in vivo models to test renin inhibitors. Thus the small
New-World monkey marmoset is used in many instances as a model. However, large
differences between the potencies of renin inhibitors as measured in human and
marmoset plasma were observed. To understand this phenomenon, we cloned marmoset 
renin and angiotensinogen. They were highly homologous to their human
counterparts, except for a six-residue deletion in the marmoset renin propeptide.
Human and marmoset recombinant renins were found in vitro to display comparable
activities, suggesting that the observed differences in plasma apparent affinity 
of inhibitors could be due to different plasma protein binding of the inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199912000-00018 
PMID: 10598135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3375. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Dec 20;415(3):393-403.

Retinohypothalamic projections in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): A
study using cholera toxin subunit B.

Costa MS(1), Santee UR, Cavalcante JS, Moraes PR, Santos NP, Britto LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, 59072-970 Natal, RN, Brazil. mstela@cb.ufrn.br

Retinal projections in vertebrates reach the primary visual, accessory optic, and
circadian timing structures. The central feature of the circadian timing system
is the principal circadian pacemaker, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the
hypothalamus. The direct projections from the retina to the SCN are considered
the entrainment pathway of the circadian timing system. In this study, unilateral
intravitreal injections of cholera toxin subunit B were used to trace the retinal
projections to the marmoset hypothalamus. The retinohypothalamic tract reaches
the ventral suprachiasmatic nucleus bilaterally, as anticipated from previous
studies. However, labeled fibers were found in several other hypothalamic
regions, such as the medial and lateral preoptic areas, supraoptic nucleus,
anterior and lateral hypothalamic areas, retrochiasmatic area, and
subparaventricular zone. These results reveal new aspects of retinohypothalamic
projection in primates and are discussed in terms of their implications for
circadian as well as noncircadian control systems.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19991220)415:3<393::aid-cne5>3.0.co;2-r 
PMID: 10553121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

