

3375. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Dec 20;415(3):393-403.

Retinohypothalamic projections in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): A
study using cholera toxin subunit B.

Costa MS(1), Santee UR, Cavalcante JS, Moraes PR, Santos NP, Britto LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande
do Norte, 59072-970 Natal, RN, Brazil. mstela@cb.ufrn.br

Retinal projections in vertebrates reach the primary visual, accessory optic, and
circadian timing structures. The central feature of the circadian timing system
is the principal circadian pacemaker, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the
hypothalamus. The direct projections from the retina to the SCN are considered
the entrainment pathway of the circadian timing system. In this study, unilateral
intravitreal injections of cholera toxin subunit B were used to trace the retinal
projections to the marmoset hypothalamus. The retinohypothalamic tract reaches
the ventral suprachiasmatic nucleus bilaterally, as anticipated from previous
studies. However, labeled fibers were found in several other hypothalamic
regions, such as the medial and lateral preoptic areas, supraoptic nucleus,
anterior and lateral hypothalamic areas, retrochiasmatic area, and
subparaventricular zone. These results reveal new aspects of retinohypothalamic
projection in primates and are discussed in terms of their implications for
circadian as well as noncircadian control systems.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19991220)415:3<393::aid-cne5>3.0.co;2-r 
PMID: 10553121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3376. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Dec 6;415(1):33-51.

Cellular heterogeneity in cerebral cortex: a study of the morphology of pyramidal
neurones in visual areas of the marmoset monkey.

Elston GN(1), Tweedale R, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology, The
University of Queensland, Queensland 4072, Australia. G.Elston@vthrc.uq.edu.au

The morphological characteristics of the basal dendritic fields of layer III
pyramidal neurones were determined in visual areas in the occipital, parietal,
and temporal lobes of adult marmoset monkeys by means of intracellular
iontophoretic injection of Lucifer yellow. Neurones in the primary visual area
(V1) had the least extensive and least complex (as determined by Sholl analysis) 
dendritic trees, followed by those in the second visual area (V2). There was a
progressive increase in size and complexity of dendritic trees with rostral
progression from V1 and V2, through the "ventral stream," including the
dorsolateral area (DL) and the caudal and rostral subdivisions of inferotemporal 
cortex (ITc and ITr, respectively). Neurones in areas of the dorsal stream,
including the dorsomedial (DM), dorsoanterior (DA), middle temporal (MT), and
posterior parietal (PP) areas, were similar in size and complexity but were
larger and more complex than those in V1 and V2. Neurones in V1 had the lowest
spine density, whereas neurones in V2, DM, DA, and PP had similar spine
densities. Neurones in MT and inferotemporal cortex had relatively high spine
densities, with those in ITr having the highest spine density of all neurones
studied. Calculations based on the size, number of branches, and spine densities 
revealed that layer III pyramidal neurones in ITr have 7.4 times more spines on
their basal dendritic fields than those in V1. The differences in the extent of, 
and the number of spines in, the basal dendritic fields of layer III pyramidal
neurones in the different visual areas suggest differences in the ability of
neurones to integrate excitatory and inhibitory inputs. The differences in
neuronal morphology between visual areas, and the consistency in these
differences across New World and Old World monkey species, suggest that they
reflect fundamental organisational principles in primate visual cortical
structure.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19991206)415:1<33::aid-cne3>3.0.co;2-m 
PMID: 10540356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

