

3377. Jpn J Pharmacol. 1999 Oct;81(2):244-6.

Effects of beta-blockers and nicardipine on oxotremorine-induced tremor in common
marmosets.

Mitsuda M(1), Nomoto M, Iwata S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Kagoshima University, Japan.

Effects of beta-blockers (propranolol, arotinolol and nipradilol) and a Ca2+
channel blocker (nicardipine) on oxotremorine-induced tremor were studied in
common marmosets. Generalized tremor was elicited by an intraperitoneal
administration of 0.25 mg/kg oxotremorine. Intensity of the tremor was classified
into 7 degrees, and it was evaluated every 10 min. The total intensity of
oxotremorine-induced tremor for each drug was expressed as "points", which were
the sum of tremor intensity scores evaluated every 10 min up to 190 min following
the administration of oxotremorine. Beta-blockers significantly suppressed the
tremor. On the other hand, the Ca2+ channel blocker exacerbated the tremor.

DOI: 10.1254/jjp.81.244 
PMID: 10591485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3378. J Endocrinol. 1999 Dec;163(3):447-56.

Isolation and characterisation of the marmoset gonadotrophin releasing hormone
receptor: Ser(140) of the DRS motif is substituted by Phe.

Byrne B(1), McGregor A, Taylor PL, Sellar R, Rodger FE, Fraser HM, Eidne KA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, 37 Chalmers St, Edinburgh EH3 9EW, UK.
Bernadette-Cons.Byrne@eu.phu.com

In order to facilitate the understanding of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone
(GnRH) agonist and antagonist action in the primate animal model, the marmoset
GnRH receptor (GnRH-R) was cloned and characterised. It was shown to have 95% and
85% sequence identity with the human and rat GnRH-Rs, respectively, and, when
transiently expressed in COS-7 cells, it exhibited high-affinity des-Gly(10),
[d-Trp(6)]-GnRH binding, with a K(d) value similar to those of both the rat and
human forms, but with a greatly reduced B(max) value. The ED(50) for production
of GnRH-induced total inositol phosphate (IP) for the marmoset GnRH-R was also
similar to those of the rat and the human, but the maximal response compared with
the rat receptor was markedly reduced. In all mammalian forms of the GnRH-R
cloned to date, the conserved DRY region of G-protein-coupled receptors is
substituted with DRS. The most interesting feature of the marmoset GnRH-R was the
substitution of this motif with DRF. In order to investigate the DRS to DRF
substitution, a Ser(140)Phe rat GnRH-R mutant was generated. The mutant had a
K(d) value similar to that of the wild-type rat receptor, although the B(max)
value was slightly lower, indicating that expression of functional mutant
receptor at the cell surface was reduced. The ED(50) value for IP production was 
also similar to that of the wild-type receptor, with a reduction in maximal
response. The level of internalisation for the rat wild-type and mutant GnRH-R
constructs was also assessed and the Ser(140)Phe mutant was shown to have an
increased rate of receptor internalisation, suggesting a role for this residue in
regulating internalisation. These results show that the marmoset GnRH-R exhibits 
a substitution in the DRS motif and that this substitution may play a part in
desensitisation and internalisation events.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1630447 
PMID: 10588818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

