

3379. Brain. 1999 Dec;122 ( Pt 12):2321-35.

Primary CA1 and conditionally immortal MHP36 cell grafts restore conditional
discrimination learning and recall in marmosets after excitotoxic lesions of the 
hippocampal CA1 field.

Virley D(1), Ridley RM, Sinden JD, Kershaw TR, Harland S, Rashid T, French S,
Sowinski P, Gray JA, Lantos PL, Hodges H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, ReNeuron Ltd, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus, n = 18) were trained to discriminate
between rewarded and non-rewarded objects (simple discriminations, SDs) and to
make conditional discriminations (CDs) when presented sequentially with two
different pairs of identical objects signifying reward either in the right or
left food well of the Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. After bilateral
N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.12 M) lesions through the cornu ammonis-1 (CA1) field (7 
microl in five sites), marmosets showed profound impairment in recall of CDs but 
not SDs, and were assigned to lesion only, lesion plus CA1 grafts and lesion plus
Maudsley hippocampal cell line, clone 36 (MHP36) grafts groups matched for
lesion-induced impairment. Cell suspension grafts (4 microl, 15-25 000
cells/microl) of cells dissected from the CA1 region of foetal brain at embryonic
day 94-96, or of conditionally immortalized MHP36 cells, derived from the
H-2Kb-tsA58 transgenic mouse neuroepithelium and labelled with [3H]thymidine,
were infused at the lesion sites. The lesion plus MHP36 grafts group was injected
five times per week with cyclosporin A (10 mg/kg) throughout testing. Lesion,
grafted and intact control marmosets (n = 4-5/group) were tested on recall of SDs
and CDs learned before lesioning and on acquisition of four new CDs over a
6-month period. Lesioned animals were highly impaired in recall and acquisition
of CD tasks, but recall of SDs was not significantly disrupted. Both grafted
groups of marmosets showed improvement to control level in recall of CDs. They
were significantly slower in learning the first new CD task, but mastered the
remaining tasks as efficiently as controls and were substantially superior to the
lesion-only group. Visualized by Nissl staining, foetal grafts formed clumps of
pyramidal-like cells within the denervated CA1 field, or jutted into the lateral 
ventricles. MHP36 cells, identified by beta-galactosidase staining and
autoradiography, showed neuronal and astrocytic morphology, and were distributed 
evenly throughout the CA1 region. The results indicate that MHP36 cell grafts are
as functionally effective as foetal grafts and appear to integrate into the host 
brain in a structurally appropriate manner, showing the capacity to differentiate
into both mature neurons and glia, and to develop morphologies appropriate to the
site of migration. These findings, which parallel the facilitative effects of
foetal and MHP36 grafts in rats with ischaemic CA1 damage, offer encouragement
for the development of conditionally immortal neuroepithelial stem cell lines for
grafting in conditions of severe amnesia and hippocampal damage following
recovery from cardiac arrest or other global ischaemic episodes.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/122.12.2321 
PMID: 10581225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3380. Vis Neurosci. 1999 Sep-Oct;16(5):957-66.

Midget and parasol ganglion cells of the primate retina express the alpha1
subunit of the glycine receptor.

Gr√ºnert U(1), Ghosh KK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, NSW, Australia. gruenert@physiol.usyd.edu.au

Glycine is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian retina and has
been shown to influence the responses of ganglion cells. Midget and parasol
ganglion cells serve distinct physiological roles in the primate retina and show 
differences in their response characteristics to light stimuli. In the present
study, we addressed the question of whether the expression of glycine receptors
differs in midget and parasol ganglion cells. Ganglion cells in the retinae of
marmoset and macaque monkeys were injected with Neurobiotin in a live in vitro
retinal whole-mount preparation. Retinal pieces were then processed with an
antibody against the alpha1 subunit of the glycine receptor. Strong punctate
immunoreactivity indicative of synaptic localization is present in the ON and OFF
sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. Many of the immunoreactive puncta
coincide with the dendrites of both midget and parasol ganglion cells.
Immunoreactive puncta are present on distal and proximal dendrites of ON and OFF 
cells. These results suggest that ON and OFF midget and parasol cells do not
differ with respect to the distribution of the alpha1 subunit of the glycine
receptor.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523899165155 
PMID: 10580731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

