

3380. Vis Neurosci. 1999 Sep-Oct;16(5):957-66.

Midget and parasol ganglion cells of the primate retina express the alpha1
subunit of the glycine receptor.

Gr√ºnert U(1), Ghosh KK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, NSW, Australia. gruenert@physiol.usyd.edu.au

Glycine is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mammalian retina and has
been shown to influence the responses of ganglion cells. Midget and parasol
ganglion cells serve distinct physiological roles in the primate retina and show 
differences in their response characteristics to light stimuli. In the present
study, we addressed the question of whether the expression of glycine receptors
differs in midget and parasol ganglion cells. Ganglion cells in the retinae of
marmoset and macaque monkeys were injected with Neurobiotin in a live in vitro
retinal whole-mount preparation. Retinal pieces were then processed with an
antibody against the alpha1 subunit of the glycine receptor. Strong punctate
immunoreactivity indicative of synaptic localization is present in the ON and OFF
sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. Many of the immunoreactive puncta
coincide with the dendrites of both midget and parasol ganglion cells.
Immunoreactive puncta are present on distal and proximal dendrites of ON and OFF 
cells. These results suggest that ON and OFF midget and parasol cells do not
differ with respect to the distribution of the alpha1 subunit of the glycine
receptor.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523899165155 
PMID: 10580731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3381. J Med Chem. 1999 Nov 18;42(23):4890-908.

New alpha-substituted succinate-based hydroxamic acids as TNFalpha convertase
inhibitors.

Barlaam B(1), Bird TG, Lambert-Van Der Brempt C, Campbell D, Foster SJ, Maciewicz
R.

Author information: 
(1)AstraZeneca, Zeneca Pharma, Centre de Recherches, Z.I. La Pompelle, BP1050,
51689 Reims Cedex 2, France.

Tumor necrosis factor alpha convertase (TACE), the enzyme responsible for the
processing of pro-TNFalpha to TNFalpha, has been reported to be a
metalloproteinase closely related to matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Current
inhibitors of TACE such as succinate-based hydroxamic acids exemplified by
Marimastat (TACE IC(50): 3.8 nM; blood IC(50): 7 microM) and BB1101 (TACE IC(50):
0.2 nM; blood IC(50): 2.3 microM) suffer from modest potency in blood and poor in
vivo properties. The introduction of new bulky alpha-substituents into these
succinate-based hydroxamic acids was studied. Substituents such as thioethers,
sulfonamides, and ethers showed improved potency against TACE when compared with 
Marimastat. Although this improvement did not translate into better blood potency
for thioether or ether substituents, the sulfonamide series exhibited improved
potency both against TACE and in blood when compared with Marimastat.
Optimization of this sulfonamide series has culminated in the identification of
heterocyclic bicyclic sulfonamides such as 3t (TACE IC(50): 0.57 nM; blood
IC(50): 0.28 microM).

DOI: 10.1021/jm990377j 
PMID: 10579851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

