

3381. J Med Chem. 1999 Nov 18;42(23):4890-908.

New alpha-substituted succinate-based hydroxamic acids as TNFalpha convertase
inhibitors.

Barlaam B(1), Bird TG, Lambert-Van Der Brempt C, Campbell D, Foster SJ, Maciewicz
R.

Author information: 
(1)AstraZeneca, Zeneca Pharma, Centre de Recherches, Z.I. La Pompelle, BP1050,
51689 Reims Cedex 2, France.

Tumor necrosis factor alpha convertase (TACE), the enzyme responsible for the
processing of pro-TNFalpha to TNFalpha, has been reported to be a
metalloproteinase closely related to matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Current
inhibitors of TACE such as succinate-based hydroxamic acids exemplified by
Marimastat (TACE IC(50): 3.8 nM; blood IC(50): 7 microM) and BB1101 (TACE IC(50):
0.2 nM; blood IC(50): 2.3 microM) suffer from modest potency in blood and poor in
vivo properties. The introduction of new bulky alpha-substituents into these
succinate-based hydroxamic acids was studied. Substituents such as thioethers,
sulfonamides, and ethers showed improved potency against TACE when compared with 
Marimastat. Although this improvement did not translate into better blood potency
for thioether or ether substituents, the sulfonamide series exhibited improved
potency both against TACE and in blood when compared with Marimastat.
Optimization of this sulfonamide series has culminated in the identification of
heterocyclic bicyclic sulfonamides such as 3t (TACE IC(50): 0.57 nM; blood
IC(50): 0.28 microM).

DOI: 10.1021/jm990377j 
PMID: 10579851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3382. Rev Med Virol. 1999 Oct-Dec;9(4):263-77.

In vivo models for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated B cell lymphoproliferative
disease (BLPD).

Johannessen I(1), Crawford DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, The University of Edinburgh Medical
School, Teviot Place, Edinburgh EH8 9AG, UK. i.johannessen@ed.ac.uk

EBV infects B lymphocytes in vivo and establishes a life-long persistent
infection in the host. The latent infection is controlled by EBV-specific MHC
class 1-restricted CTL. Immunosuppression reduces CTL activity, and this
facilitates outgrowth of EBV+ve B cell lymphoproliferative disease (BLPD). BLPD
are aggressive lesions with high mortality. This review presents some key facets 
in the development of EBV-associated BLPD and in vivo studies on its
pathogenesis. The animal models used to date include the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), the cottontop tamarin (Saguinus oedipus oedipus), rhesus
monkey, murine herpesvirus 68 (MHV68), and the severe combined immunodeficient
(scid) mouse, each of which has been used to address particular aspects of EBV
biology and BLPD development. Scid mice inoculated i.p. with PBMC from
EBV-seropositive individuals develop EBV+ve BLPD-like tumours. Thus this small
animal model (hu-PBMC-scid) is currently used by many laboratories to investigate
EBV-associated diseases. We and others have studied BLPD pathogenesis in the
hu-PBMC-scid model and shown that EBV+ve B cells on their own do not give rise to
tumours in this model without inclusion of autologous T cell subsets in the
inoculum. Based on the findings that (1) established tumours do not contain T
cells and (2) tumour cells express a variety of B cell growth factors, a stepwise
model of lymphomagenesis in the scid mouse model can be defined. Additionally,
the hu-PBMC-scid model can be used to assess novel therapeutic regimes against
BLPD before introduction into a clinical setting.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1654(199910/12)9:4<263::aid-rmv256>3.0.co;2-d 
PMID: 10578121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

