

3387. Arch Biochem Biophys. 1999 Dec 1;372(1):189-96.

Molecular cloning, expression, and characterization of CYP2D17 from cynomolgus
monkey liver.

Mankowski DC(1), Laddison KJ, Christopherson PA, Ekins S, Tweedie DJ, Lawton MP.

Author information: 
(1)Pfizer Central Research, Eastern Point Road, Groton, Connecticut, 06340, USA.

The cynomolgus monkey is a species used in drug-safety evaluation and
biotransformation studies by the pharmaceutical industry. Relatively little is
known, however, about the catalytic activities and specificities of cytochromes
P450 (CYP) in this species. As a first step in characterizing monkey CYPs, a cDNA
was cloned by reverse-transcriptase PCR from cynomolgus monkey liver mRNA using
oligonucleotide primers based on the human CYP2D6 sequence. The full-length cDNA 
(called CYP2D17) encoded a 497-amino-acid protein that is 93% identical to human 
CYP2D6 and 90% identical to marmoset CYP2D19. The CYP2D17 cDNA was cloned into a 
baculovirus expression vector, and microsomes prepared from CYP2D17-infected
insect cells were used to determine the catalytic properties of the recombinant
enzyme. The recombinant CYP2D17 results were compared to data generated with
monkey liver microsomes, human liver microsomes, and recombinant CYP2D6 and
demonstrated catalytic similarity using probe substrates and inhibitors.
Recombinant CYP2D17 catalyzed the oxidation of bufuralol to 1'-hydroxybufuralol
and dextromethorphan to dextrorphan, reactions shown to be mediated by CYP2D6 in 
humans; the apparent K(m) values for bufuralol and dextromethorphan were 1 and
0.8 microM, respectively. Moreover, both of these reactions were more strongly
inhibited by quinidine than by quinine. A more complete understanding of the
substrate specificities and activities of monkey CYPs will be advantageous in
delineating species differences in metabolite profiles and metabolic activation
of new chemical entities in the pharmaceutical industry.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/abbi.1999.1506 
PMID: 10562433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3388. Virology. 1999 Oct 25;263(2):485-95.

Tyrosines 60, 64, and 101 of Epstein-Barr virus LMP2A are not essential for
blocking B cell signal transduction.

Swart R(1), Fruehling S, Longnecker R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology, Northwestern University Medical School,
Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent membrane protein 2A (LMP2A) is expressed on the
membrane of B-lymphocytes and blocks B cell receptor (BCR) signaling in
EBV-transformed B-lymphocytes in vitro. The LMP2A amino-terminal domain, which is
essential for the LMP2A-mediated block of B cell signal transduction, contains
eight tyrosine residues. Three of these tyrosine residues (Y74, Y85, and Y112)
have been demonstrated to be essential for the LMP2A-mediated block on protein
tyrosine phosphorylation, calcium mobilization, and induction of BZLF1 expression
after BCR activation. To investigate the importance of tyrosines at positions 60,
64, and 101 on B cell signaling, EBV recombinants were constructed containing a
tyrosine-to-phenylalanine point mutation at amino acid 60, 64, or 101 within
LMP2A. Tyrosine phosphorylation, calcium mobilization, and induction of BZLF1
expression were not affected by any of the tyrosine point mutations after BCR
activation. In addition, constitutive phosphorylation of LMP2A was unaffected by 
any of the tyrosine point mutations. These data indicate that tyrosines 60, 64,
and 101 are not essential for the LMP2A-mediated block of B cell signal
transduction in transformed cell lines.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1999.9964 
PMID: 10544120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

