

3388. Virology. 1999 Oct 25;263(2):485-95.

Tyrosines 60, 64, and 101 of Epstein-Barr virus LMP2A are not essential for
blocking B cell signal transduction.

Swart R(1), Fruehling S, Longnecker R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology, Northwestern University Medical School,
Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent membrane protein 2A (LMP2A) is expressed on the
membrane of B-lymphocytes and blocks B cell receptor (BCR) signaling in
EBV-transformed B-lymphocytes in vitro. The LMP2A amino-terminal domain, which is
essential for the LMP2A-mediated block of B cell signal transduction, contains
eight tyrosine residues. Three of these tyrosine residues (Y74, Y85, and Y112)
have been demonstrated to be essential for the LMP2A-mediated block on protein
tyrosine phosphorylation, calcium mobilization, and induction of BZLF1 expression
after BCR activation. To investigate the importance of tyrosines at positions 60,
64, and 101 on B cell signaling, EBV recombinants were constructed containing a
tyrosine-to-phenylalanine point mutation at amino acid 60, 64, or 101 within
LMP2A. Tyrosine phosphorylation, calcium mobilization, and induction of BZLF1
expression were not affected by any of the tyrosine point mutations after BCR
activation. In addition, constitutive phosphorylation of LMP2A was unaffected by 
any of the tyrosine point mutations. These data indicate that tyrosines 60, 64,
and 101 are not essential for the LMP2A-mediated block of B cell signal
transduction in transformed cell lines.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1999.9964 
PMID: 10544120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3389. Doc Ophthalmol. 1998-1999;95(3-4):229-45.

Spatial and temporal response properties of the major retino-geniculate pathways 
of Old and New World monkeys.

Kremers J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of TÃ¼bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany. jan.kremers@uni-tuebingen.de

Old World monkeys, apes and humans all enjoy trichromatic colour vision, and the 
absorption spectra of the photopigments are very similar in all species and all
individuals. Colour vision in New World monkeys however, is very heterogeneous.
In many species, the majority of individuals is dichromatic. Recently, anatomical
and electrophysiological studies revealed that the retinal organisation in Old
World monkeys and New World monkeys is very similar, although the cells belonging
to the parvocellular pathway do not show any colour opponency and their spectral 
sensitivity is similar to that of the magnocellular cells. Apparently, the
magnocellular and parvocellular pathways in the retina and the LGN have not
developed as an adaptation to luminance and chromatic processing. It is more
likely that the two pathways originally evolved to cover different ranges in the 
spatio-temporal domain. In the present paper, several spatial and temporal
properties of parvo- and magnocellular cells (which are identical for dichromatic
and trichromatic animals) are compared.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1001896005084 
PMID: 10532407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

