

3394. J Neurophysiol. 1999 Oct;82(4):1865-75.

Cutaneous receptive field organization in the ventral posterior nucleus of the
thalamus in the common marmoset.

Wilson P(1), Kitchener PD, Snow PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral and Sensory Functions Unit, Department of Anatomical Sciences,
University of Queensland, St. Lucia, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.

The organization of cutaneous receptive fields in the ventroposterior (VP)
thalamus of the common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) was determined from
single-unit recordings, and these data were correlated with the cytochrome
oxidase (CO) histochemistry of the thalamus in the same animals. Under
continuously maintained ketamine anesthesia, the receptive fields of a total of
192 single units were recorded from the right VP thalamus using 2 MOhms glass
electrodes. After the receptive fields were mapped, the brains were reacted for
CO histochemistry on 50-microm coronal frozen sections through the entire VP
thalamus. The majority of units were localized to the CO-reactive regions that
define the medial and lateral divisions of VP (VPm and VPl). Apart from the
expected finding of the face being represented in VPm and the body in VPl,
reconstructing the electrode tracks and unit locations in the histological
sections revealed a general association between discrete regions of CO reactivity
and the representation of specific body regions. Some low-threshold cutaneous
units were apparently localized to VPi (the CO weak regions dorsal, ventral, and 
interdigitating with, the CO regions of VP). These VPi units were clearly part of
the same representational map as the VPl and VPm units. We conclude that the
low-threshold cutaneous receptive fields of the marmoset are organized in a
single continuous representation of the contralateral body surface, and that this
representation can most simply be interpreted as being folded or crumpled into
the three-dimensional space of VP thalamus. The folded nature of the body map in 
VP may be related to the folded nature of VP as revealed by CO histochemistry.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.1999.82.4.1865 
PMID: 10515975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3395. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Oct 25;413(3):417-28.

Synaptic input to small bistratified (blue-ON) ganglion cells in the retina of a 
new world monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Ghosh KK(1), Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Small bistratified (blue-ON) ganglion cells in the primate retina are involved in
processing short wavelength sensitive cone signals. These ganglion cells stratify
in both the ON- and OFF-sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. We investigated
the origin of synaptic input to the small bistratified ganglion cell in the
retina of a New World primate, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Two small
bistratified cells from peripheral retina were intracellularly filled with
Lucifer Yellow, subsequently photoconverted and processed for electron
microscopy. Serial ultrathin sections were cut through portions of each cell, and
these were analysed in the electron microscope. The majority of synaptic input
(about 84%) to both the inner and outer tier of dendrites was from amacrine
cells. Both dendritic tiers also received bipolar cell input. These findings are 
consistent with predictions from physiological studies that synaptic input to the
inner and outer tier of small bistratified cells should be excitatory. However,
the tiny fraction of total input supplied from bipolar cells to the outer tier is
not consistent with the strong excitatory OFF response in cells of this pathway.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19991025)413:3<417::aid-cne5>3.0.co;2-h 
PMID: 10502249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

