

3395. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Oct 25;413(3):417-28.

Synaptic input to small bistratified (blue-ON) ganglion cells in the retina of a 
new world monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Ghosh KK(1), Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Small bistratified (blue-ON) ganglion cells in the primate retina are involved in
processing short wavelength sensitive cone signals. These ganglion cells stratify
in both the ON- and OFF-sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. We investigated
the origin of synaptic input to the small bistratified ganglion cell in the
retina of a New World primate, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Two small
bistratified cells from peripheral retina were intracellularly filled with
Lucifer Yellow, subsequently photoconverted and processed for electron
microscopy. Serial ultrathin sections were cut through portions of each cell, and
these were analysed in the electron microscope. The majority of synaptic input
(about 84%) to both the inner and outer tier of dendrites was from amacrine
cells. Both dendritic tiers also received bipolar cell input. These findings are 
consistent with predictions from physiological studies that synaptic input to the
inner and outer tier of small bistratified cells should be excitatory. However,
the tiny fraction of total input supplied from bipolar cells to the outer tier is
not consistent with the strong excitatory OFF response in cells of this pathway.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19991025)413:3<417::aid-cne5>3.0.co;2-h 
PMID: 10502249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3396. Mov Disord. 1999 Sep;14(5):744-53.

The alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist idazoxan reduces dyskinesia and
enhances anti-parkinsonian actions of L-dopa in the MPTP-lesioned primate model
of Parkinson's disease.

Henry B(1), Fox SH, Peggs D, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Organon Laboratories Limited, Department of Pharmacology, Lanarkshire,
Scotland, UK.

Dopamine replacement therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease is plagued by
the emergence of abnormal involuntary movements known as L-dopa-induced
dyskinesias. It has been demonstrated that yohimbine can reduce L-dopa-induced
dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease. Yohimbine
is, among other things, an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist. In this study,
we demonstrate that the selective and potent alpha2-adrenergic receptor
antagonist idazoxan reduces L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. The alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonists
rauwolscine and yohimbine also reduce L-dopa-induced dyskinesia. Furthermore, we 
demonstrate that coadministration of idazoxan with L-dopa can provide an
anti-parkinsonian action more than twice the length of that seen with L-dopa
alone. However, idazoxan as a monotherapy displayed no anti-parkinsonian actions.
We propose that idazoxan in combination with L-dopa may provide a novel approach 
to the treatment of Parkinson's disease that will not only reduce the dyskinetic 
side effects, but extend the anti-parkinsonian actions of L-dopa. Idazoxan, as an
adjunct to dopamine replacement, may prove useful in the treatment of
parkinsonian patients at all stages of disease progression.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8257(199909)14:5<744::aid-mds1006>3.0.co;2-7 
PMID: 10495035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

