

3397. Eur J Biochem. 1999 Sep;264(2):407-14.

New world, but not Old World, monkeys carry several genes encoding
beta-microseminoprotein.

Mäkinen M(1), Valtonen-André C, Lundwall A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Lund University, University Hospital, Malmö,
Sweden.

It was shown by Southern hybridization that cotton-top tamarin and common
marmoset, New World monkeys, carry three or more genes encoding
beta-microseminoprotein, also known as PSP94. In contrast, the genomes of Old
World monkeys, as represented by rhesus macaque and sacred baboon, contain a
single gene. Clones containing three different genes encoding
beta-microseminoprotein were isolated from a cotton-top tamarin genomic library. 
They carry two complete genes of four exons and a third gene lacking the first
exon. The structure suggests that the three genes are functionally active and
give rise to transcripts that are approximately 86% similar in sequence. By
sequencing one gene in full, it was shown that the introns carry an excess of
interspersed repeats, on average 29% of the introns consist of Alu repeats. A
phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the genes probably arose in New World
monkeys after the separation from Old World primates.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1432-1327.1999.00614.x 
PMID: 10491085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3398. Tissue Antigens. 1999 Aug;54(2):185-90.

An assay for peptide binding to HLA-Cw*0102.

Andersen MH(1), Søndergaard I, Zeuthen J, Elliott T, Haurum JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Tumor Cell Biology, Danish Cancer Society, Copenhagen.
mha@cancer.dk

The assembly assay for peptide binding to class I major histocompatibility
complex (MHC) molecules is based on the ability of peptides to stabilize MHC
class I molecules synthesized by transporter associated with antigen processing
(TAP)-deficient cell. The TAP-deficient cell line T2 has previously been used in 
the assembly assay to analyze peptide binding to HLA-A*0201 and -B*5101. In this 
study, we have extended this technique to assay for peptides binding to
endogenous HLA-Cw*0102 molecules. We have analyzed the peptide binding of 20
peptides with primary anchor motifs for HLA-Cw*0102. One-third of the peptides
analyzed bound with high affinity, half of the peptides examined did not bind,
whereas the remaining peptides displayed intermediate binding activity. Interest 
in HLA-C molecules has increased significantly in recent years, since it has been
shown that HLA-C molecules both can present peptides to cytotoxic T lymphocytes
(CTL) and in addition are able to inhibit natural killer (NK)-mediated lysis.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0039.1999.540210.x 
PMID: 10488746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

