

3399. Tissue Antigens. 1999 Aug;54(2):146-52.

HLA-DR polymorphism influences T-cell precursor frequencies to Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV) gp110: implications for the association of HLA-DR antigens with rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Toussirot E(1), Auger I, Roudier C, Luka J, Wendling D, Tiberghien P, Roudier J.

Author information: 
(1)Service de Rhumatologie, Hopital Minjoz, Besançon, France.

To study whether HLA-DR haplotypes associated with susceptibility to develop
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) may influence T-cell responses to the Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) gp110 (a protein of the late replicative cycle of EBV), we evaluated 
the frequency in peripheral blood of T cells capable to proliferate to EBV gp110 
by direct limiting dilution analysis in 50 HLA-DR-typed healthy subjects. NVe
found that HLA-DRB1*07, an allele associated with reduced risk to develop RA, is 
associated with the highest frequencies of T cells specific for gp110 in
peripheral blood. In contrast, HLA-DRB1*0404, one of the susceptibility alleles
is associated with the lowest frequencies of gp110 specific T cells. Finally,
people expressing both HLA-DRB1*07 and HLA-DRB1*0404 display low precursor
frequencies to EBV gp110.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0039.1999.540205.x 
PMID: 10488741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3400. Hum Mol Genet. 1999 Oct;8(11):2017-24.

The Old World monkey DAZ (Deleted in AZoospermia) gene yields insights into the
evolution of the DAZ gene cluster on the human Y chromosome.

Gromoll J(1), Weinbauer GF, Skaletsky H, Schlatt S, Rocchietti-March M, Page DC, 
Nieschlag E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
D-48129 Münster, Germany.

The DAZ gene cluster on the human Y chromosome is a candidate for the Azoospermia
Factor (AZFc). According to the current evolutionary model, the DAZ cluster
derived from the autosomal homolog DAZL1 through duplications and rearrangements 
and is confined to Old World monkeys, apes and humans. To study functional and
evolutionary aspects of this gene family we have isolated from a cynomolgus (Old 
World) monkey testis cDNA library the Y chromosomal cynDAZ and the autosomal
cynDAZL1 cDNA. cynDAZL1 contains one DAZ repeat and displays high homology to
human DAZL1. cynDAZ comprises 11 repeats, each consisting of exons 7 and 8,
whereas the human DAZ cDNA repeat units contain predominantly exon 7. Genomic
studies revealed the same amplific- ation events of a 2.4 kb genomic unit
encompassing exons 7 and 8 in both species, indicating that after splitting of
the two lineages, in the human mainly exon 8 was converted to a pseudoexon by
splice site mutations. The structural features of cynDAZ reveal a more detailed
model for the sequence of events leading to the present form of human DAZ. Thus, 
in a monkey species DAZ is present in a form more ancestral than that of the
human. Studies on the immunolocalization of cynDAZ / DAZL1 in cynomolgus monkey
testis revealed a biphasic expression pattern with proteins being detectable in
A-pale to B-spermatogonia, late spermatocytes and spermatids, but not in early
spermatocytes and late spermatids. In contrast, in the marmoset monkey, an animal
lacking DAZ, DAZL1 protein was only expressed in late spermatocytes and early
spermatids. These findings point to an additional function of cynDAZ / cynDAZL1
during spermato- genesis in the Old World monkey not needed in the New World
monkey.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/8.11.2017 
PMID: 10484770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

