

3400. Hum Mol Genet. 1999 Oct;8(11):2017-24.

The Old World monkey DAZ (Deleted in AZoospermia) gene yields insights into the
evolution of the DAZ gene cluster on the human Y chromosome.

Gromoll J(1), Weinbauer GF, Skaletsky H, Schlatt S, Rocchietti-March M, Page DC, 
Nieschlag E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
D-48129 MÃ¼nster, Germany.

The DAZ gene cluster on the human Y chromosome is a candidate for the Azoospermia
Factor (AZFc). According to the current evolutionary model, the DAZ cluster
derived from the autosomal homolog DAZL1 through duplications and rearrangements 
and is confined to Old World monkeys, apes and humans. To study functional and
evolutionary aspects of this gene family we have isolated from a cynomolgus (Old 
World) monkey testis cDNA library the Y chromosomal cynDAZ and the autosomal
cynDAZL1 cDNA. cynDAZL1 contains one DAZ repeat and displays high homology to
human DAZL1. cynDAZ comprises 11 repeats, each consisting of exons 7 and 8,
whereas the human DAZ cDNA repeat units contain predominantly exon 7. Genomic
studies revealed the same amplific- ation events of a 2.4 kb genomic unit
encompassing exons 7 and 8 in both species, indicating that after splitting of
the two lineages, in the human mainly exon 8 was converted to a pseudoexon by
splice site mutations. The structural features of cynDAZ reveal a more detailed
model for the sequence of events leading to the present form of human DAZ. Thus, 
in a monkey species DAZ is present in a form more ancestral than that of the
human. Studies on the immunolocalization of cynDAZ / DAZL1 in cynomolgus monkey
testis revealed a biphasic expression pattern with proteins being detectable in
A-pale to B-spermatogonia, late spermatocytes and spermatids, but not in early
spermatocytes and late spermatids. In contrast, in the marmoset monkey, an animal
lacking DAZ, DAZL1 protein was only expressed in late spermatocytes and early
spermatids. These findings point to an additional function of cynDAZ / cynDAZL1
during spermato- genesis in the Old World monkey not needed in the New World
monkey.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/8.11.2017 
PMID: 10484770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3401. J Toxicol Sci. 1999 Aug;24(3):237-44.

Effects of di-isononyl phthalate (DINP) on peroxisomal markers in the
marmoset-DINP is not a peroxisome proliferator.

Hall M(1), Matthews A, Webley L, Harling R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of In Vitro Metabolism, Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited, England.

In the present study the systemic toxic potential of di-isononyl phthalate (DINP)
was assessed in a 13-week study in marmosets. Particular attention was given to
its potential for hepatic peroxisome proliferation. Three groups of four male and
four female marmosets received DINP, by oral gavage administration, at dosages of
100, 500 or 2500 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks. A fourth group served as a concurrent
Control group and received the vehicle (1% methylcellulose and 0.5% Tween) only. 
A fifth group received clofibrate at a dosage of 500 mg/kg/day to provide a
positive Control for liver peroxisome activity. At the end of the treatment
period, the animals were killed and their livers were removed. 3000 x g
supernatant and microsomal subcellular fractions were prepared from homogenised
liver by differential centrifugation. The peroxisomal marker enzyme activity,
cyanide-insensitive palmitoyl CoA oxidase, was assayed in the former, while
cytochrome P450 concentration and lauric acid 11- and 12-hydroxylase activities
(selective for CYP2E1 and 4A, respectively) were assayed in the microsomes. No
statistically significant changes were seen in any of these parameters measured
following DINP treatment, compared with the Control. Clofibrate treatment
resulted in an approximately 100% increase (p < 0.01) in both male and female
marmoset cyanide-insensitive palmitoyl CoA oxidase activity and a similar
increase (p < 0.05) in male (only) lauric acid 11-hydroxylase activity. No other 
changes were statistically significant at the 5% level. These data provide no
evidence that DINP was acting as a peroxisome proliferator when administered to
marmosets under the conditions of the study.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.24.3_237 
PMID: 10478338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

