

3405. Am J Primatol. 1999 Oct;49(2):133-52.

Proposed chromosomal phylogeny for the South American primates of the
Callitrichidae family (Platyrrhini).

Nagamachi CY(1), Pieczarka JC, Muniz JA, Barros RM, Mattevi MS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gen√©tica, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre, RS, Brazil. cleusa@ufpa.br

Cytogenetic and cytotaxonomic studies (G, C, sequential G/C, and NOR banding)
were performed on 110 specimens representing the four genera of South American
primates of the family Callitrichidae: Cebuella (C. pygmaea), Callithrix, groups 
argentata (C. argentata, C. emiliae, C. chrysoleuca, C. humeralifera, C. mauesi),
and jacchus (C. aurita, C. geoffroyi, C. jacchus, C. kuhli, C. penicillata),
Leontopithecus (L. chrysomelas, L. rosalia), and Saguinus (S. midas midas, S. m. 
niger). Mitotic chromosomes are characterized, and the rearrangements
distinguishing the karyotypes of the taxa are inferred from arm homologies. The
results were then converted into numerical data and submitted to cladistic
analysis. The following conclusions were achieved: 1) Five karyotypic classes
were observed, which correspond to the five taxa studied. Differences between
them are as follows: a) Cebuella (2n = 44, 10 acrocentrics, A + 32 bi-armed
autosomes, bi) and the argentata group (2n = 44, 10A + 32bi) are different from
each other due to a reciprocal translocation; b) both can be distinguished from
the jacchus group (2n = 46, 14A + 30bi) by a centric fusion/fission rearrangement
and a paracentric inversion; c) Leontopithecus (2n = 46, 14A + 30bi) and Saguinus
(2n = 46, 14A + 30bi) differ from the jacchus group by a reciprocal translocation
and three paracentric inversions; and d) Saguinus is different from the others by
one paracentric inversion and pericentric inversions in at least four pairs of
acrocentric autosomes. 2) The cladistic analysis separates Cebus (used as an
outgroup) from the Callitrichidae groups, which forms a clade. Among the
Callitrichidae, marmosets (Cebuella and Callithrix) form a sub-clade, Cebuella
and the argentata group being more closely related to each other than both are to
the jacchus group. Tamarins (Leontopithecus and Saguinus) are also quite close,
so that if one was not derived from the other, they with the marmosets share a
common ancestor. Among the tamarins, Leontopithecus is karyotypically closest to 
the marmosets, specifically to the jacchus group. 3) Based on the chromosome
information and considering the possible direction of the evolutionary changes
(primitivity or phyletic dwarfism hypothesis, previously advanced by other
authors), it was possible to propose the ancestral karyotypes and to develop two 
alternatives for the origin, differentiation and dispersion of the callitrichid. 
Both proposals are plausible, but when the geographical distribution is
considered, the phyletic dwarfism hypothesis seems to be the most probable.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(199910)49:2<133::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-6 
PMID: 10466573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3406. J Gen Virol. 1999 Aug;80 ( Pt 8):2193-2203. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-80-8-2193.

Epstein-Barr virus lacking latent membrane protein 2 immortalizes B cells with
efficiency indistinguishable from that of wild-type virus.

Speck P(1), Kline KA(1), Cheresh P(1), Longnecker R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology, Northwestern University Medical School,
Room 6-231 Ward Building, 303 East Chicago Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA1.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a human herpesvirus that efficiently transforms and
immortalizes human primary B lymphocytes. In this study, the role of latent
membrane protein 2 (LMP2) in EBV growth transformation was investigated. LMP2 is 
a virally encoded membrane protein expressed in EBV-immortalized B cells
previously shown to be nonessential for EBV transformation. However, a recent
study reported that LMP2 may be an important determinant for efficient B cell
transformation (Brielmeier et al., Journal of General Virology 77, 2807-2818,
1996). In this study a deletion mutation was introduced into the LMP2 gene using 
an E. coli mini-EBV construct containing sufficient EBV DNA to result in growth
transformation of primary B cells. In an alternative approach, the introduction
of the gene encoding the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) by homologous 
recombination into the LMP2 gene of EBV strain B95-8, generating the same LMP2
deletion mutation is reported. Careful quantification of B cell transformation
using the EGFP+ LMP2- recombinant virus determined that in liquid culture medium 
or in culture medium containing soft agarose there was no difference in the
ability of LMP2- virus to immortalize primary human B cells when compared to that
of wild-type virus.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-80-8-2193 
PMID: 10466819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

