

3406. J Gen Virol. 1999 Aug;80 ( Pt 8):2193-2203. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-80-8-2193.

Epstein-Barr virus lacking latent membrane protein 2 immortalizes B cells with
efficiency indistinguishable from that of wild-type virus.

Speck P(1), Kline KA(1), Cheresh P(1), Longnecker R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology, Northwestern University Medical School,
Room 6-231 Ward Building, 303 East Chicago Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA1.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a human herpesvirus that efficiently transforms and
immortalizes human primary B lymphocytes. In this study, the role of latent
membrane protein 2 (LMP2) in EBV growth transformation was investigated. LMP2 is 
a virally encoded membrane protein expressed in EBV-immortalized B cells
previously shown to be nonessential for EBV transformation. However, a recent
study reported that LMP2 may be an important determinant for efficient B cell
transformation (Brielmeier et al., Journal of General Virology 77, 2807-2818,
1996). In this study a deletion mutation was introduced into the LMP2 gene using 
an E. coli mini-EBV construct containing sufficient EBV DNA to result in growth
transformation of primary B cells. In an alternative approach, the introduction
of the gene encoding the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) by homologous 
recombination into the LMP2 gene of EBV strain B95-8, generating the same LMP2
deletion mutation is reported. Careful quantification of B cell transformation
using the EGFP+ LMP2- recombinant virus determined that in liquid culture medium 
or in culture medium containing soft agarose there was no difference in the
ability of LMP2- virus to immortalize primary human B cells when compared to that
of wild-type virus.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-80-8-2193 
PMID: 10466819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3407. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1999 Sep-Oct;94(5):649-53.

Polymorphism in trypomastigotes of Trypanosoma (Megatrypanum) minasense in the
blood of experimentally infected squirrel monkey and marmosets.

Ziccardi M(1), Lourenco-de-Oliveira R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Transmissores de Hematozoários, Departamento de Entomologia,
Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 21045-900, Brasil.
ziccardi@gene.dbbm.fiocruz.br

Experimental infections by Trypanosoma (Megatrypanum) minasense were performed in
primates - Saimiri sciureus and Callithrix penicillata - with the objective of
searching for morphological variations of the blood trypomastigotes with respect 
to hosts and time of infection. We carried out morphological and morphometric
analysis of blood trypomastigotes. Illustrations are given. Both the squirrel
monkey and marmoset became infected after the injection of blood trypomastigotes 
of T. minasense, although the parasitaemia were briefer in the squirrel monkey.
The parasites detected in the later host were narrower and shorter than those
found in the inoculated marmoset. In the marmoset, the blood stream parasites
derived from culture metacyclic trypomastigotes were considerably smaller than
those derived from the inoculation of infected blood. Stronger evidence of
polymorphism was found when, at the same time of infection, the blood
trypomastigotes found in squirrel monkey had smaller length, body width and the
distance from posterior end of the body to the kinetoplast almost four times
smaller than the parasite found in the marmoset. Therefore, conflicting results
on morphology and morphometry of T. minasense obtained by previous investigators 
could be due to polymorphism.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761999000500016 
PMID: 10464410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

