

3418. Vis Neurosci. 1999 Jul-Aug;16(4):707-19.

Analysis of two types of cone bipolar cells in the retina of a New World monkey, 
the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Luo X(1), Ghosh KK, Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Two types of cone bipolar cells, the blue cone bipolar cell and the diffuse
bipolar cell (DB3), were labelled immunohistochemically and investigated in the
retina of a New World monkey, the marmoset. Blue cone bipolar cells were labelled
with an antiserum against cholecystokinin. Short-wavelength-sensitive (SWS) cones
were labelled with an antiserum against the SWS cone opsin. The DB3 cells were
labelled with antibodies to calbindin. Blue cone bipolar cells in marmoset do not
form a regular mosaic but instead follow the random distribution of the SWS
cones. Nevertheless, the SWS cone to blue cone bipolar cell connectivity in
marmoset is very similar to that previously described for macaque. In contrast to
the blue cone bipolar cells, the DB3 cells form a regular mosaic. The synaptic
connectivity of DB3 cells in the inner plexiform layer was analyzed. They make
output synapses onto ganglion cells and amacrine cells, and gap junctions with
each other. Our results provide further evidence for the existence of parallel
bipolar cell pathways in the primate retina and support the view that the retinae
of Old World and New World primates have common neuronal connectivity. The random
distribution of SWS cones and blue cone bipolar cells is an exception to the
general rule of a regular mosaic distribution of cell populations in the retina.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523899164101 
PMID: 10431919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3419. J Med Primatol. 1999 Apr;28(2):73-83.

Unrearable litters and prenatal reduction of litter size in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Windle CP(1), Baker HF, Ridley RM, Oerke AK, Martin RD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, UK.

It is widely believed that common marmosets (Callithrx jacchus) typically give
birth to twins under natural conditions. In captivity, however, births of
triplets or even larger litters are common, although parents rarely succeed in
rearing more than two offspring. The traditional interpretation is that captive
conditions, notably the ready availability of food, have led to increased
reproductive output, perhaps involving a higher ovulation rate. The present paper
provides evidence, combined from ultrasound examinations between ovulation and
birth and hysterotomies conducted during the late embryonic and early fetal
phase, that the litter size can be progressively reduced during pregnancy without
spontaneous abortion. There is an unusually long lag phase prior to the onset of 
embryonic growth in common marmosets; the fetal stage does not begin until day 80
of the 144-day pregnancy. Reduction in litter size occurs during embryonic stages
(up to day 80), and continues into the fetal stages. These results indicate that 
the common marmoset is adapted for flexible modification of litter size between
ovulation and birth. The high incidence of triplet births in captive colonies may
therefore be an expression of an adapted natural developmental process under
artificial circumstances.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1999.tb00254.x 
PMID: 10431697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

