

3423. Anat Rec. 1999 Jul 1;255(3):241-51.

Ultrastructural studies of glycan changes in the apical surface of the uterine
epithelium during pre-ovulatory and and pre-implantation stages in the marmoset
monkey.

Niklaus AL(1), Murphy CR, Lopata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.

It has been postulated that carbohydrates are involved in a variety of cell-cell 
interactions including blastocyst implantation. In primates, there are only
limited investigations on the ultrastructural localisation of the cyclic changes 
in uterine epithelial surface carbohydrates. Our aim was to investigate such
changes during the pre-ovulatory and pre-implantation stages of the reproductive 
cycle in the marmoset monkey. After fixation of endometrial tissues,
avidin-ferritin lectin cytochemistry was employed for apical surface glycan
detection at the ultrastructural level. Five lectins were used including
Canavalia ensiformis (Con A), Lotus tetragonolobus (LTA), Glycine max (SBA),
Phytolacca americana (PWM) and Triticum vulgaris (WGA). Morphometry was used to
quantitate changes in the intensity of lectin staining by determining the total
number of ferritin particles per unit length of membrane. Surface and
intra-cytoplasmic vesicles, stained by the lectins, were also examined.
Quantitative ferritin assessment showed that 1 day before presumed implantation
(days 11 to 12 after ovulation in the marmoset monkey) there was a significant
increase in Con A, LTA and SBA staining on the apical uterine epithelial plasma
membrane compared to the pre-ovulatory phase and earlier stages of pregnancy
(days 4-8 after ovulation). A significant increase in PWM was also detected from 
early pregnancy to pre-implantation stages. All lectins except WGA produced
reproducible staining within reproductive cycle groups. The greatest variation
and intensity of epithelial surface staining was observed with WGA and the
weakest with LTA. The patchy staining with LTA compared with thick coverage by
WGA indicated the complexity of the carbohydrate arrangement in the glycocalyx of
the uterine surface plasma membrane. Reduction of WGA reactivity after
neuraminidase treatment suggested that the lectin binding might be related to the
presence of heavily sialylated apical uterine membrane glycoconjugates. This is
the first high-resolution study in primates to report quantitative cyclic changes
in fucosyl, galactosyl, glucosyl, and mannosyl sugar residues of the apical
uterine epithelial glycocalyx. The findings support the concept that uterine
epithelial glycocalyx surface carbohydrates play a role in preparing a receptive 
uterine surface.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0185(19990701)255:3<241::AID-AR1>3.0.CO;2-K 
PMID: 10411392  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3424. Biol Reprod. 1999 Aug;61(2):512-20.

Relaxin in the marmoset monkey: secretion pattern in the ovarian cycle and early 
pregnancy.

Einspanier A(1), Nubbemeyer R, Schlote S, Schumacher M, Ivell R, Fuhrmann K,
Marten A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, 37077 GÃ¶ttingen,
Germany. aeinspa@gwdg.de

Relaxin is a peptide hormone with a broad range of biological activities, related
not only to parturition and lactation but possibly also to decidualization,
implantation, and early pregnancy. The present study was designed to investigate 
the secretion pattern of relaxin throughout the cycle and early pregnancy in the 
common marmoset monkey in relation to ovarian function and the systemic hormone
milieu. First, a novel relaxin ELISA was developed and validated to confirm the
pattern of relaxin secretion during pregnancy. Secondly, serum relaxin profiles
were determined through nonconceptive and conceptive cycles and analyzed in
relation to the concentration of other hormones and to the development of ovarian
follicles and corpora lutea (CL). Blood samples were collected 2-3 times per week
from the experimental animals and analyzed for relaxin, progesterone, and LH. The
animals from the conceptive cycles were also ultrascanned at these time points to
determine the ovarian status up to Day 25 of pregnancy. During early pregnancy,
the relaxin levels in serum were approximately 1 ng/ml, increasing up to 15 ng/ml
in the second trimester, at a time when progesterone levels had declined. In the 
third trimester, when progesterone levels were increasing again, the levels of
relaxin decreased, returning to basal levels by term of pregnancy. In early
pregnancy there was a parallel increase in both relaxin and LH/hCG, with the
relaxin rise in the conceptive cycle appearing sooner than in the nonconceptive
cycle, suggesting that, like chorionic gonadotropin (CG), relaxin may be a useful
and early marker for pregnancy. Unlike the situation in the human, there was no
correlation between the levels of either hormone and the number of CL detected,
infants born, mother's age, or parity. Relaxin levels increased in early
pregnancy before bioactive LH/CG, implying that relaxin is not directly regulated
by this gonadotropin. Furthermore, hCG applied to nonconceptive females during
the expected time of implantation caused an increase in progesterone but not in
relaxin concentrations. In summary, the results obtained indicate that relaxin
may be a reliable indicator of early pregnancy status in the common marmoset, but
it is independent of direct CG influence.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod61.2.512 
PMID: 10411534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

