

3424. Biol Reprod. 1999 Aug;61(2):512-20.

Relaxin in the marmoset monkey: secretion pattern in the ovarian cycle and early 
pregnancy.

Einspanier A(1), Nubbemeyer R, Schlote S, Schumacher M, Ivell R, Fuhrmann K,
Marten A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, 37077 GÃ¶ttingen,
Germany. aeinspa@gwdg.de

Relaxin is a peptide hormone with a broad range of biological activities, related
not only to parturition and lactation but possibly also to decidualization,
implantation, and early pregnancy. The present study was designed to investigate 
the secretion pattern of relaxin throughout the cycle and early pregnancy in the 
common marmoset monkey in relation to ovarian function and the systemic hormone
milieu. First, a novel relaxin ELISA was developed and validated to confirm the
pattern of relaxin secretion during pregnancy. Secondly, serum relaxin profiles
were determined through nonconceptive and conceptive cycles and analyzed in
relation to the concentration of other hormones and to the development of ovarian
follicles and corpora lutea (CL). Blood samples were collected 2-3 times per week
from the experimental animals and analyzed for relaxin, progesterone, and LH. The
animals from the conceptive cycles were also ultrascanned at these time points to
determine the ovarian status up to Day 25 of pregnancy. During early pregnancy,
the relaxin levels in serum were approximately 1 ng/ml, increasing up to 15 ng/ml
in the second trimester, at a time when progesterone levels had declined. In the 
third trimester, when progesterone levels were increasing again, the levels of
relaxin decreased, returning to basal levels by term of pregnancy. In early
pregnancy there was a parallel increase in both relaxin and LH/hCG, with the
relaxin rise in the conceptive cycle appearing sooner than in the nonconceptive
cycle, suggesting that, like chorionic gonadotropin (CG), relaxin may be a useful
and early marker for pregnancy. Unlike the situation in the human, there was no
correlation between the levels of either hormone and the number of CL detected,
infants born, mother's age, or parity. Relaxin levels increased in early
pregnancy before bioactive LH/CG, implying that relaxin is not directly regulated
by this gonadotropin. Furthermore, hCG applied to nonconceptive females during
the expected time of implantation caused an increase in progesterone but not in
relaxin concentrations. In summary, the results obtained indicate that relaxin
may be a reliable indicator of early pregnancy status in the common marmoset, but
it is independent of direct CG influence.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod61.2.512 
PMID: 10411534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3425. Adv Neurol. 1999;80:125-8.

Metabolism of adenosine increase in the striatum in common marmoset parkinsonism 
induced by MPTP.

Nomoto M(1), Shimizu T, Iwata S, Kaseda S, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.


PMID: 10410711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

