

3426. Mult Scler. 1999 Jun;5(3):147-60.

Candidate autoantigens in multiple sclerosis.

Schmidt S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Bonn (Rheinische
Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universit√§t), Germany.

Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory demyelinating CNS disease of putatively
autoimmune origin. Novel models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
(EAE) have demonstrated that T cells specific for various myelin and even
nonmyelin proteins are potentially encephalitogenic. The encephalitogenic T cell 
response directed against different CNS antigens not only determines the lesional
topography of CNS inflammation but also the composition of the inflammatory
infiltrates. The heterogeneity of the lesional distribution seen in EAE might
therefore be useful for the understanding of the various clinical subtypes seen
in MS. In this review the possible candidate autoantigens in MS are discussed
with special regard to the human T cell and B cell responses against various
myelin and nonmyelin proteins.

DOI: 10.1177/135245859900500303 
PMID: 10408714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3427. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1999;70(3):146-53.

The mother's participation in infant carrying in captive groups of Leontopithecus
chrysomelas and Callithrix jacchus.

Souza de Oliveira M(1), Lopes FA, Alonso C, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brazil. marcelin@aim.unizh.ch

Callithrix and Leontopithecus exhibit ecological differences that have
implications for the patterns of infant care. In C. jacchus, which uses a small
home range because it depends mainly on plant exudates, infants can forage
independently early in their life. L. chrysomelas, which feeds mainly on fruits
and insects, needs larger home ranges and, therefore, its infants have a more
extensive period of dependence. Three families of C. jacchus and four families of
L. chrysomelas were studied in captivity. The animals were observed starting from
the birth of the infants up to their 8th week of age. Our results suggest that
the pattern of infant transfer in L. chrysomelas did not follow the one reported 
for L. rosalia in that transfers from the mother occurred much earlier. L.
chrysomelas infants were carried for about 15% of total time during the 8th week 
of life against less than 1% in C. jacchus in the same week. Infant care seems to
be more extensive in L. chrysomelas than in C. jacchus, and the period of
exclusive mother carrying in L. chrysomelas is shorter than that observed in L.
rosalia.

DOI: 10.1159/000021687 
PMID: 10394063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

