

3427. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1999;70(3):146-53.

The mother's participation in infant carrying in captive groups of Leontopithecus
chrysomelas and Callithrix jacchus.

Souza de Oliveira M(1), Lopes FA, Alonso C, Yamamoto ME.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brazil. marcelin@aim.unizh.ch

Callithrix and Leontopithecus exhibit ecological differences that have
implications for the patterns of infant care. In C. jacchus, which uses a small
home range because it depends mainly on plant exudates, infants can forage
independently early in their life. L. chrysomelas, which feeds mainly on fruits
and insects, needs larger home ranges and, therefore, its infants have a more
extensive period of dependence. Three families of C. jacchus and four families of
L. chrysomelas were studied in captivity. The animals were observed starting from
the birth of the infants up to their 8th week of age. Our results suggest that
the pattern of infant transfer in L. chrysomelas did not follow the one reported 
for L. rosalia in that transfers from the mother occurred much earlier. L.
chrysomelas infants were carried for about 15% of total time during the 8th week 
of life against less than 1% in C. jacchus in the same week. Infant care seems to
be more extensive in L. chrysomelas than in C. jacchus, and the period of
exclusive mother carrying in L. chrysomelas is shorter than that observed in L.
rosalia.

DOI: 10.1159/000021687 
PMID: 10394063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3428. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1999;70(3):136-45.

Sexual behavior and extragroup copulations in a wild population of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Digby LJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California, Davis, Calif., USA.
ldigby@acpub.duke.edu

Sexual behavior and mating patterns are described for 3 free-ranging groups of
common marmosets living in a coastal forest in northeastern Brazil. Each group
contained 2 breeding females. Within groups, sexual behavior was generally
restricted to breeding females and a single behaviorally dominant male. Of 101
mounts and copulations, 24 involved pairings of individuals from 2 different
groups. Extragroup sexual behavior was performed by both breeding and nonbreeding
group members, and 65% of all adults mounted or copulated with an extragroup
individual at least once. Sexual behavior occurred throughout the female
reproductive cycle but was significantly more frequent during an 11-day
'conception period'. Thus, while female marmosets show no physical signs of
estrus, both males and females likely do have some information about the timing
of ovulation. Mating patterns in this population included both polygyny and
monogamy and varied between groups and over time.

DOI: 10.1159/000021686 
PMID: 10394062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

