

3429. J Androl. 1999 May-Jun;20(3):375-83.

TGF-beta could be involved in paracrine actions in the epididymis of the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Bomgardner D(1), Wehrenberg U, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Friedrich Alexander University Erlangen, Germany.
daniela.bomgardner@rzmail.uni-erlangen.de

The transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and the transforming growth
factor-beta receptor type II (TGF-betaRII) were studied in the epididymis of
sexually mature marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) by immunohistochemical
localization of the protein and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of
the mRNA level. In order to specify reactive cell types, the morphology of all
three segments (caput, corpus, and cauda epididymidis) was evaluated by light
microscopy. Six different cell types could be distinguished: principal, basal,
apical, and clear cells, as well as intraepithelial lymphocytes and macrophages. 
Using immunohistochemistry, specific staining for TGF-beta1 in the caput was
found in 47% of the apical cells, whereas the TGF-betaRII was located in the
apical portion of 91% of all principal cells. In the corpus epididymidis, 20% of 
the apical cells were immunopositive for TGF-beta, and binding of the receptor
antibody occurred in 17% of the principal cells (all numbers based on counts of
counterstained nuclei). All differences between percentages in the caput and
corpus were significant as determined by chi-square test. PCR analysis revealed
detectable levels of TGF-beta1 mRNA in the marmoset epididymis. Our results
indicate for the first time that TGF-beta1 is synthesized in the marmoset
epididymis, possibly in a different subpopulation of epididymal cells than the
TGF-beta receptor type II. Thus, TGF-beta might be of functional relevance in the
primate epididymis.


PMID: 10386817  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3430. Am J Primatol. 1999;48(3):225-36.

Phylogenetic relationships of the Callitrichinae (Platyrrhini, primates) based on
beta2-microglobulin DNA sequences.

Canavez FC(1), Moreira MA, Simon F, Parham P, Seu√°nez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
California 94305-5126, USA. fcanavez@cmgm.stanford.edu

The phylogenetic relationships of callitrichine primates have been determined by 
DNA sequence analyses of exons 1, 2, and 3 of the beta2-microglobulin gene.
Parsimony, distance, and maximum likelihood analyses of ca. 900 base pairs of 21 
taxa, representing all callitrichine genera, indicated that Saguinus was the most
basal offshoot. Within Saguinus, S. fuscicollis appeared as the first divergent
lineage followed by an unresolved trichotomy formed by S. mystax/S. imperator, S.
midas/S. bicolor, and S. oedipus. A second callitrichine lineage was formed by
Leontopithecus; each of the three species studied showed identical nucleotide
sequences. Callimico appeared as the sister taxon of Callithrix/Cebuella. Genetic
distances within this latter group were very small, although a stronger
association between Cebuella and species of the Callithrix argentata group was
observed. The inclusion of Cebuella in the genus Callithrix is suggested. These
studies indicated that tamarins are more plesiomorphic than marmosets in
agreement with the phyletic dwarfism hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)48:3<225::AID-AJP4>3.0.CO;2-4 
PMID: 10380996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

