

3430. Am J Primatol. 1999;48(3):225-36.

Phylogenetic relationships of the Callitrichinae (Platyrrhini, primates) based on
beta2-microglobulin DNA sequences.

Canavez FC(1), Moreira MA, Simon F, Parham P, Seu√°nez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Structural Biology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
California 94305-5126, USA. fcanavez@cmgm.stanford.edu

The phylogenetic relationships of callitrichine primates have been determined by 
DNA sequence analyses of exons 1, 2, and 3 of the beta2-microglobulin gene.
Parsimony, distance, and maximum likelihood analyses of ca. 900 base pairs of 21 
taxa, representing all callitrichine genera, indicated that Saguinus was the most
basal offshoot. Within Saguinus, S. fuscicollis appeared as the first divergent
lineage followed by an unresolved trichotomy formed by S. mystax/S. imperator, S.
midas/S. bicolor, and S. oedipus. A second callitrichine lineage was formed by
Leontopithecus; each of the three species studied showed identical nucleotide
sequences. Callimico appeared as the sister taxon of Callithrix/Cebuella. Genetic
distances within this latter group were very small, although a stronger
association between Cebuella and species of the Callithrix argentata group was
observed. The inclusion of Cebuella in the genus Callithrix is suggested. These
studies indicated that tamarins are more plesiomorphic than marmosets in
agreement with the phyletic dwarfism hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)48:3<225::AID-AJP4>3.0.CO;2-4 
PMID: 10380996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3431. Exp Anim. 1999 Apr;48(2):107-14.

Leukocyte differential analysis in multiple laboratory species by a laser
multi-angle polarized light scattering separation method.

Suzuki S(1), Eguchi N.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki-Shi, Japan.

Leukocyte differential analysis was performed in various species, particularly
laboratory animals, by the laser multi-angle polarized light scattering
separation method. Venous blood specimens were drawn from the following subjects:
healthy adult men and women ("humans"); cynomolgus monkeys ("monkeys"); common
marmosets ("marmosets"); beagle dogs ("dogs"); miniature potbelly pigs ("swine");
Japanese white rabbits ("rabbits"); Hartley guinea pigs ("guinea pigs"); and
Sprague-Dawley rats ("rats"). 90 degrees/10 degrees scatter plot: Basophils and
mononuclear-polymorphonuclear cells were separated in all subjects, but
individual 10 degrees and 90 degrees scatter plots overlapped in dogs and guinea 
pigs, respectively. 90 degrees depolarized /90 degrees scatter plot: Neutrophils 
and eosinophils were clearly separated in human, monkey, guinea pig, swine and
rat subjects. The eosinophil cluster was not clearly plotted in marmoset, dog, or
rabbit. 0 degree/10 degrees scatter plot: Regarding this plot for monocytes and
lymphocytes, cells were plotted in the following order in all subjects:
lymphocytes < basophils < or = monocytes in the 0 degree (size) scatter; and
lymphocytes [symbol: see text] monocytes < or = basophils in the 10 degrees
(complexity) scatter. Compared to other species, the rat scatter showed a
tendency to overlapping plots in both the 0 degree and 10 degrees scatters in the
monocyte and lymphocyte clusters. In both dog and guinea pig, the monocyte and
neutrophil plots overlapped in the 0 degree and 10 degrees scatters. Basobox: In 
the human and rabbit subjects, the basophil cluster was plotted within the
established basobox, but no clear cell cluster was plotted in the other subjects.
As a result of comparing the percentage values for leukocytes in various species 
obtained by using the CD3500 apparatus versus the corresponding values obtained
manually, good correspondence was found in the monkey, and eosinophils in the
marmoset were lower with CD3500 than manually. In the rabbit, the mean measured
value for basophils matched in the manual and CD3500 findings. In the guinea pig,
the CD3500 values were lower than the manual values for lymphocytes, but higher
for monocytes and neutrophils. The above findings suggest that the laser
multi-angle polarized light scattering separation method is indeed capable of
analyzing leukocytes from various species based on cell size and cell complexity,
i.e., the presence or absence of nuclei, granules and cell enclosures.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.48.107 
PMID: 10374072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

