

3432. J Med Primatol. 1999 Feb;28(1):36-47.

Efficacy and effects of short- and medium-term contraception in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using melengestrol acetate implants.

Möhle U(1), Heistermann M, Einspanier A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen.
moehle@www.dpz.gwdg.de

This study examines the effect of melengestrol acetate (MGA) implants on
reproductive function and various biochemical parameters, ovarian activity, and
uterine morphology in ten female common marmosets implanted for either 6-8 or
19-21 months. Measures of body weight, concentrations of urinary glucose and
blood liver enzymes were taken. Ovarian activity was assessed by analysis of
urinary progestin levels and ultrasound examinations of the ovaries.
Ultrasonography was also used to evaluate uterine morphology. MGA was highly
effective in preventing pregnancies in the study animals. No changes in
biochemical parameters were found; however, seven females developed a substantial
weight gain during the study. Follicular development was not suppressed, as
indicated by the presence of antral follicles, luteinized structures, and
elevated urinary progestin levels. The uteri of the MGA-treated subjects were
moderately enlarged with a thickened endometrium that showed a marked change in
structural appearance indicative of hypertrophy and decidualization. After
implant removal these changes quickly disappeared and all females ovulated within
3 weeks and conceived within 4 months post-treatment. MGA appears to be an
acceptable contraceptive in the marmoset, although non-steroidal methods should
be evaluated as possible potential alternatives.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1999.tb00087.x 
PMID: 10372539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3433. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1999 Jun;63(2):201-11.

The dopamine D3/D2 receptor agonist 7-OH-DPAT induces cognitive impairment in the
marmoset.

Smith AG(1), Neill JC, Costall B.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, University of
Bradford, West Yorkshire, UK.

Previous work has shown that dopaminergic systems are involved in cognitive
function in the common marmoset. The present study investigated the role of
dopamine D3 receptors in cognitive performance in the marmoset. The effects of
the putative dopamine D3 receptor agonist, 7-OH-DPAT, on performance of a
same-day reversal visual object discrimination task were assessed using a
miniature Wisconsin General Test Apparatus (WGTA). Within the same test session
marmosets acquired a two-choice object discrimination initial task and a reversal
task to criterion. 7-OH-DPAT (6-10 microg/kg) significantly impaired reversal
task performance only, without affecting acquisition of the initial task. A
higher dose of 25 microg/kg 7-OH-DPAT impaired initial task acquisition as well
as reversal task acquisition, possibly as a consequence of a nonspecific
influence on motor function. The dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (-)sulpiride
(5-10 microg/kg) and the alpha2-receptor antagonist yohimbine (50 microg/kg)
failed to attenuate the effects of 7-OH-DPAT (6 microg/kg) in this task. In
contrast, the dopamine D2/D3 receptor antagonist raclopride (50 microg/kg)
significantly attenuated the 7-OH-DPAT-induced impairment of reversal task
performance. These results suggest that activation of dopamine D3 receptors
produces a selective impairment of aspects of cognitive function in the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(98)00230-5 
PMID: 10371648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

