

3433. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1999 Jun;63(2):201-11.

The dopamine D3/D2 receptor agonist 7-OH-DPAT induces cognitive impairment in the
marmoset.

Smith AG(1), Neill JC, Costall B.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, University of
Bradford, West Yorkshire, UK.

Previous work has shown that dopaminergic systems are involved in cognitive
function in the common marmoset. The present study investigated the role of
dopamine D3 receptors in cognitive performance in the marmoset. The effects of
the putative dopamine D3 receptor agonist, 7-OH-DPAT, on performance of a
same-day reversal visual object discrimination task were assessed using a
miniature Wisconsin General Test Apparatus (WGTA). Within the same test session
marmosets acquired a two-choice object discrimination initial task and a reversal
task to criterion. 7-OH-DPAT (6-10 microg/kg) significantly impaired reversal
task performance only, without affecting acquisition of the initial task. A
higher dose of 25 microg/kg 7-OH-DPAT impaired initial task acquisition as well
as reversal task acquisition, possibly as a consequence of a nonspecific
influence on motor function. The dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (-)sulpiride
(5-10 microg/kg) and the alpha2-receptor antagonist yohimbine (50 microg/kg)
failed to attenuate the effects of 7-OH-DPAT (6 microg/kg) in this task. In
contrast, the dopamine D2/D3 receptor antagonist raclopride (50 microg/kg)
significantly attenuated the 7-OH-DPAT-induced impairment of reversal task
performance. These results suggest that activation of dopamine D3 receptors
produces a selective impairment of aspects of cognitive function in the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(98)00230-5 
PMID: 10371648  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3434. Br J Pharmacol. 1999 May;127(1):275-83.

Control of glutamate release by calcium channels and kappa-opioid receptors in
rodent and primate striatum.

Hill MP(1), Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorders Laboratory, Division of Neuroscience, School of 
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester. m.hill@man.ac.uk

The modulation of depolarization (4-aminopyridine, 2 mM)-evoked endogenous
glutamate release by kappa-opioid receptor activation and blockade of
voltage-dependent Ca2+ -channels has been investigated in synaptosomes prepared
from rat and marmoset striatum. 4-Aminopyridine (4-AP)-stimulated, Ca2+
-dependent glutamate release was inhibited by enadoline, a selective kappa-opioid
receptor agonist, in a concentration-dependent and norbinaltorphimine (nor-BNI,
selective kappa-opioid receptor antagonist)-sensitive manner in rat (IC50 =
4.4+/-0.4 microM) and marmoset (IC50 = 2.9+/-0.7 microM) striatal synaptosomes.
However, in the marmoset, there was a significant (approximately 23%)
nor-BNI-insensitive component. In rat striatal synaptosomes, the Ca2+ -channel
antagonists omega-agatoxin-IVA (P/Q-type blocker), omega-conotoxin-MVIIC
(N/P/Q-type blocker) and omega-conotoxin-GVIA (N-type blocker) reduced
4-AP-stimulated, Ca2+ -dependent glutamate release in a concentration-dependent
manner with IC50 values of 6.5+/-0.9 nM, 75.5+5.9 nM and 106.5+/-8.7 nM,
respectively. In marmoset striatal synaptosomes, 4-AP-stimulated, Ca2+ -dependent
glutamate release was significantly inhibited by omega-agatoxin-IVA (30 nM,
57.6+/-2.3%, inhibition), omega-conotoxin-MVIIC (300 nM, 57.8+/-3.1%) and
omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM, 56.7+/-2%). Studies utilizing combinations of
Ca2+ -channel antagonists suggests that in the rat striatum, two relatively
distinct pools of glutamate, released by activation of either P or Q-type Ca2+
-channels, exist. In contrast, in the primate there is much overlap between the
glutamate released by P and Q-type Ca2+ -channel activation. Studies using
combinations of enadoline and the Ca2+ -channel antagonists suggest that
enadoline-induced inhibition of glutamate release occurs primarily via reduction 
of Ca2+ -influx through P-type Ca2+ -channels in the rat but via N-type Ca2+
-channels in the marmoset. In conclusion, the results presented suggest that
there are species differences in the control of glutamate release by kappa-opioid
receptors and Ca2+ -channels.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702523 
PMCID: PMC1565998
PMID: 10369483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

