

3434. Br J Pharmacol. 1999 May;127(1):275-83.

Control of glutamate release by calcium channels and kappa-opioid receptors in
rodent and primate striatum.

Hill MP(1), Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorders Laboratory, Division of Neuroscience, School of 
Biological Sciences, University of Manchester. m.hill@man.ac.uk

The modulation of depolarization (4-aminopyridine, 2 mM)-evoked endogenous
glutamate release by kappa-opioid receptor activation and blockade of
voltage-dependent Ca2+ -channels has been investigated in synaptosomes prepared
from rat and marmoset striatum. 4-Aminopyridine (4-AP)-stimulated, Ca2+
-dependent glutamate release was inhibited by enadoline, a selective kappa-opioid
receptor agonist, in a concentration-dependent and norbinaltorphimine (nor-BNI,
selective kappa-opioid receptor antagonist)-sensitive manner in rat (IC50 =
4.4+/-0.4 microM) and marmoset (IC50 = 2.9+/-0.7 microM) striatal synaptosomes.
However, in the marmoset, there was a significant (approximately 23%)
nor-BNI-insensitive component. In rat striatal synaptosomes, the Ca2+ -channel
antagonists omega-agatoxin-IVA (P/Q-type blocker), omega-conotoxin-MVIIC
(N/P/Q-type blocker) and omega-conotoxin-GVIA (N-type blocker) reduced
4-AP-stimulated, Ca2+ -dependent glutamate release in a concentration-dependent
manner with IC50 values of 6.5+/-0.9 nM, 75.5+5.9 nM and 106.5+/-8.7 nM,
respectively. In marmoset striatal synaptosomes, 4-AP-stimulated, Ca2+ -dependent
glutamate release was significantly inhibited by omega-agatoxin-IVA (30 nM,
57.6+/-2.3%, inhibition), omega-conotoxin-MVIIC (300 nM, 57.8+/-3.1%) and
omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM, 56.7+/-2%). Studies utilizing combinations of
Ca2+ -channel antagonists suggests that in the rat striatum, two relatively
distinct pools of glutamate, released by activation of either P or Q-type Ca2+
-channels, exist. In contrast, in the primate there is much overlap between the
glutamate released by P and Q-type Ca2+ -channel activation. Studies using
combinations of enadoline and the Ca2+ -channel antagonists suggest that
enadoline-induced inhibition of glutamate release occurs primarily via reduction 
of Ca2+ -influx through P-type Ca2+ -channels in the rat but via N-type Ca2+
-channels in the marmoset. In conclusion, the results presented suggest that
there are species differences in the control of glutamate release by kappa-opioid
receptors and Ca2+ -channels.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0702523 
PMCID: PMC1565998
PMID: 10369483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3435. Vis Neurosci. 1999 Mar-Apr;16(2):333-43.

Ganglion cells of a short-wavelength-sensitive cone pathway in New World monkeys:
morphology and physiology.

Silveira LC(1), Lee BB, Yamada ES, Kremers J, Hunt DM, Martin PR, Gomes FL.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, Brazil.

We have studied the morphology and physiology of retinal ganglion cells of a
short-wavelength-sensitive cone (SWS-cone) pathway in dichromatic and
trichromatic New World anthropoids, the capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) and
tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). In Old World anthropoids, in which
males and females are both trichromats, blue-ON/yellow-OFF retinal ganglion cells
have excitatory SWS-cone and inhibitory middle- and long-wavelength-sensitive
(MWS- and LWS-) cone inputs, and have been anatomically identified as small-field
bistratified ganglion cells (SB-cells) (Dacey & Lee, 1994). Among retinal
ganglion cells of New World monkeys, we find SB-cells which have very similar
morphology to such cells in macaque and human; for example, the inner dendritic
tree is larger and denser than the outer dendritic tree. We also find blue-on
retinal ganglion cells of the capuchin to have physiological responses strongly
resembling such cells of the macaque monkey retina; for example, responses were
more sustained, with a gentler low frequency roll-off than MC-cells, and no
evidence of contrast gain control. There was no difference between dichromatic
and trichromatic individuals. The results support the view that SWS-cone pathways
are similarly organized in New and Old World primates, consistent with the
hypothesis that these pathways form a phylogenetically ancient color system.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523899162138 
PMID: 10367967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

