

3436. Virology. 1999 Jun 5;258(2):375-81.

Nitric oxide down-regulates Epstein-Barr virus reactivation in epithelial cell
lines.

Gao X(1), Tajima M, Sairenji T.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Science, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori University,
Nishimachi-86, Yonago, 683-8505, Japan.

Nitric oxide (NO), a mediator of biological functions, has an antimicrobial
activity against a variety of pathogens including viruses. In this study, we
found that a constitutive, low level of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) mRNA was
expressed in the EBV-infected gastric tissue-derived GT38 and GT39 cell lines, by
analysis with the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and
Southern blotting. Treatment of these cells with a specific NOS inhibitor,
NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), induced the immediate-early, EBV
transactivator gene BZLF1 protein ZEBRA, suggesting a significant increase in EBV
reactivation by L-NMMA. Northern blotting demonstrated that BZLF1 and BRLF1
transcripts were also induced by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13 acetate (TPA).
Meanwhile, constitutive expression of iNOS mRNA was inhibited by TPA. L-NMMA also
enhanced TPA-induced expression of the BZLF1 gene. On the other hand, a NO donor,
S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), which releases NO in an aqueous solution,
inhibited the TPA-induced BZLF1 gene expression in a dose-dependent manner at
both mRNA and protein levels. These results demonstrated that NO is a regulatory 
factor in maintaining virus latency via inhibiting EBV reactivation in the
infected epithelial cells.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1999.9748 
PMID: 10366574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3437. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 1999 May 17;9(10):1403-8.

Piperidine-renin inhibitors compounds with improved physicochemical properties.

Güller R(1), Binggeli A, Breu V, Bur D, Fischli W, Hirth G, Jenny C, Kansy M,
Montavon F, Müller M, Oefner C, Stadler H, Vieira E, Wilhelm M, Wostl W, Märki
HP.

Author information: 
(1)Pharma Research Department, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.

Piperidine renin inhibitors with heterocyclic core modifications or hydrophilic
attachments show improved physical properties (lower lipophilicity, improved
solubility). Tetrahydroquinoline derivative rac-30 with a molecular weight of 517
and a log D(pH 7.4) of 1.9 displays potent and long lasting blood pressure
lowering effects after oral administration to sodium depleted conscious
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-894x(99)00196-1 
PMID: 10360745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

