

3438. J Physiol. 1999 Jun 15;517 ( Pt 3):907-17.

Temporal contrast sensitivity in the lateral geniculate nucleus of a New World
monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Solomon SG(1), White AJ, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

Comment in
    J Physiol. 1999 Jun 15;517 ( Pt 3):630.

1. The temporal contrast sensitivity of koniocellular, parvocellular and
magnocellular cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of nine adult
marmosets was measured. The receptive fields of the cells were between 0.3 and 70
deg from the fovea. The stimulus was a large spatially uniform field which was
modulated in luminance at temporal frequencies between 0.98 and 64 Hz. 2. For
each cell group there was a gradual increase in modulation sensitivity,
especially for temporal frequencies below 8 Hz, with increasing distance from the
fovea. At any given eccentricity, magnocellular cells had the greatest
sensitivity. In central visual field, the sensitivity of koniocellular cells lay 
between that of parvocellular and magnocellular cells. In peripheral visual field
(above 10 deg eccentricity) koniocellular and parvocellular cells had similar
sensitivity. 3. The contrast sensitivity of each cell class was dependent on the 
anaesthetic used. Cells from animals anaesthetized with isoflurane were less
sensitive than cells from animals anaesthetized with sufentanil. This effect was 
more marked for temporal frequencies below 4 Hz. 4. These results are
incompatible with the notion that the koniocellular pathway is functionally
homologous to a sluggish, W-like pathway in other mammals. At least in terms of
their temporal transfer properties, many koniocellular cells are more like
parvocellular cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7793.1999.0907s.x 
PMCID: PMC2269368
PMID: 10358129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3439. Behav Neurosci. 1999 Apr;113(2):303-15.

Different effects on learning ability after injection of the cholinergic
immunotoxin ME20.4IgG-saporin into the diagonal band of Broca, basal nucleus of
Meynert, or both in monkeys.

Ridley RM(1), Barefoot HC, Maclean CJ, Pugh P, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom. rmr21@cus.cam.ac.uk

Immunotoxic lesions of the diagonal band of Broca (VDB) in monkeys disrupted
cholinergic input to the hippocampus, producing impaired learning of visuospatial
conditional discriminations but not simple visual discriminations. Immunotoxic
lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert (NBM) deprived the cortex of most of its 
cholinergic input, producing impaired learning of simple visual discriminations
but not visuospatial conditional discriminations. Combined lesions of the NBM +
VDB resulted in impaired learning of both types of task. The impairment after NBM
lesions ameliorated with time but could be reinstated by a low dose of the
glutamate blocking drug MK801, which, at this dose, did not impair simple visual 
discrimination learning in normal monkeys. The cholinergic projections from the
NBM and VDB may sustain the function of the glutamatergic pyramidal cell pathways
within the cortex and hippocampus, respectively.

DOI: 10.1037//0735-7044.113.2.303 
PMID: 10357455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

