

3442. Am J Primatol. 1999;48(1):77-83.

Hormonal monitoring of age at sexual maturation in female Goeldi's monkeys
(Callimico goeldii) in their family groups.

Dettling A(1), Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich, Switzerland.
dettling@ifv.nuwi.ethz.ch

The aim of this study was to determine whether or not sexual maturation is
attained in the family group in captive-born Goeldi's monkey (Callimico goeldii) 
and if so, at what age and body weight. To monitor ovarian activity in 14 female 
Goeldi's monkeys, urinary content of pregnanediol-3alpha-glucuronide (PdG) was
determined using radioimmunoassay. Urinary samples were collected between the
ages of 6 and 70 weeks. Subjects became sexually mature while still housed in
their family groups, at a median age of 57 weeks (48-< 70 weeks). Median body
weight at the age of sexual maturity was 473 g (N=10; 420-543 g). This
corresponded to 90% of the median non-pregnant body weight of breeding females in
our colony (526 g, N=8). Therefore, Goeldi's monkey is similar to Leontopithecus 
but different from Cebuella, Callithrix, and Saguinus, in terms of daughters
ovulating in the family group and at a relatively young age.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)48:1<77::AID-AJP6>3.0.CO;2-3 
PMID: 10326772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3443. Genomics. 1999 May 1;57(3):371-9.

Intergenic splicing between a HERV-H endogenous retrovirus and two adjacent human
genes.

Kowalski PE(1), Freeman JD, Mager DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia, V5Z 1L3, Canada.

We previously reported that a long terminal repeat (LTR) of a human endogenous
retrovirus of the HERV-H family promotes expression of a cellular fusion
transcript in teratocarcinoma cell lines. This transcript was termed PLA2L due to
two regions of similarity to the secreted form of phospholipase A2. In this
study, evidence is presented indicating that this transcript appears to be the
result of intergenic splicing between the HERV-H element and two independent
downstream genes. The 5' gene has been named HHLA1 (HERV-H LTR-associating 1) and
is of unknown function but shows sequence conservation in other mammals. The 3'
gene is now known to encode human otoconin-90 (OC90) which, in mice, is a major
protein expressed in the fetal inner ear. Evidence for intergenic splicing of
these two genes includes: (1) the isolation of LTR-driven HHLA1 transcripts,
unspliced to otoconin-90 exons, with variable sites of polyadenylation; (2) the
cloning of both the putative human intergenic genomic region and the novel 5'
terminus of the mouse otoconin-90 gene; (3) the identification of homologous
potential signal sequences in the 5' region of mouse otoconin-90 and in the
middle of the PLA2L transcript; and (4) the lack of detectable chromosomal
rearrangements involving this region in teratocarcinoma cells. The PLA2L
transcript therefore represents a rare example of intergenic splicing of two
closely linked genes. We hypothesize that human HHLA1 and OC90 are normally
expressed independently from different promoters but are expressed from the LTR
promoter and spliced together in teratocarcinoma cells. It is tempting to
speculate that the high activity of the LTR promoter in this cell type may induce
transcriptional fusion between these two genes.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/geno.1999.5787 
PMID: 10329003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

