

3443. Genomics. 1999 May 1;57(3):371-9.

Intergenic splicing between a HERV-H endogenous retrovirus and two adjacent human
genes.

Kowalski PE(1), Freeman JD, Mager DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia, V5Z 1L3, Canada.

We previously reported that a long terminal repeat (LTR) of a human endogenous
retrovirus of the HERV-H family promotes expression of a cellular fusion
transcript in teratocarcinoma cell lines. This transcript was termed PLA2L due to
two regions of similarity to the secreted form of phospholipase A2. In this
study, evidence is presented indicating that this transcript appears to be the
result of intergenic splicing between the HERV-H element and two independent
downstream genes. The 5' gene has been named HHLA1 (HERV-H LTR-associating 1) and
is of unknown function but shows sequence conservation in other mammals. The 3'
gene is now known to encode human otoconin-90 (OC90) which, in mice, is a major
protein expressed in the fetal inner ear. Evidence for intergenic splicing of
these two genes includes: (1) the isolation of LTR-driven HHLA1 transcripts,
unspliced to otoconin-90 exons, with variable sites of polyadenylation; (2) the
cloning of both the putative human intergenic genomic region and the novel 5'
terminus of the mouse otoconin-90 gene; (3) the identification of homologous
potential signal sequences in the 5' region of mouse otoconin-90 and in the
middle of the PLA2L transcript; and (4) the lack of detectable chromosomal
rearrangements involving this region in teratocarcinoma cells. The PLA2L
transcript therefore represents a rare example of intergenic splicing of two
closely linked genes. We hypothesize that human HHLA1 and OC90 are normally
expressed independently from different promoters but are expressed from the LTR
promoter and spliced together in teratocarcinoma cells. It is tempting to
speculate that the high activity of the LTR promoter in this cell type may induce
transcriptional fusion between these two genes.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/geno.1999.5787 
PMID: 10329003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3444. Vision Res. 1999 Jan;39(2):189-206.

The effects of spectacle wear in infancy on eye growth and refractive error in
the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Graham B(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, Oxford, UK.

We made a comprehensive study, involving observations on 45 marmosets, of the
effects on ocular growth and refraction of wearing spectacles from the ages of
4-8 weeks. This period was within the period early in life when the eye grows
rapidly and refraction changes from hyperopia to its adult value of modest
myopia. In one series of experiments we studied the effect of lenses of powers
-8, -4, +4 and +8D fitted monocularly. In another series of experiments we
studied the effect of lenses of equal and opposite powers fitted binocularly,
with the two eyes alternately occluded, so as to give an incentive to use both
eyes, and in particular to accommodate, for at least part of each day, through
the negative lens. The vitreous chamber of eyes that wore negative lenses of -4D 
or -8D, combined with alternate occlusion, elongated more rapidly than that of
the fellow eye (negative lens eye-positive lens eye, 0.21 +/- 0.03 mm (S.E.M.), P
< 0.01 and 0.25 +/- 0.06 mm, P < 0.05, respectively) and became relatively more
myopic (2.8 +/- 0.26D, P < 0.01 and 2.4 +/- 0.61D, P < 0.05 respectively). Eyes
that wore -4D lenses monocularly elongated more rapidly and became myopic than
fellow eyes. Eyes that wore +4D or +8D lenses were less strongly affected:
animals that wore +8D lenses monocularly (without alternate occlusion) developed 
a slight relative hyperopia (0.99 +/- 0.21D, P < 0.01), with the more hyperopic
eyes also slightly shorter (0.09 +/- 0.05 mm) than their fellow eyes, but eyes
wearing +4D lenses were not significantly different from their fellow eyes.
Animals that wore -8D lenses monocularly (without alternate occlusion) developed 
a slight relative hyperopia after three weeks of lens-wear (0.85 +/- 0.26D, P <
0.05). These were the only eyes that responded in a non-compensatory direction to
the optical challenge of spectacle wear, and we interpret this effect as one due 
to visual deprivation. After the removal of lenses, the degree of anisometropia
slowly diminished in those groups of animals in which it had been induced, but in
the three groups in which the largest effects had been produced by lens-wear the 
overall mean anisometropia (0.68 +/- 0.24D, P < 0.01) and vitreous chamber depth 
(VCD) discrepancy (0.09 +/- 0.03 mm, P < 0.01) were still significant at the end 
of the experiments, when the animals were 273 days old. The reduction of
anisometropia in these groups was associated with an increase in the rate of
elongation of the vitreous chamber in the eyes that had previously grown normally
i.e. the less myopic eyes grew more rapidly than their fellow eyes: in the seven 
weeks following lens-wear these eyes became more myopic and longer than normal
eyes (refraction P < 0.001; VCD P < 0.001). Control experiments showed that
occlusion of one eye for 50% of the day had no effect on eye growth and
refraction, and therefore that alternate occlusion itself had no effect.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(98)00189-8 
PMID: 10326130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

