

3445. Vision Res. 1999 Jan;39(2):177-87.

Normal development of refractive state and ocular component dimensions in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Graham B(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, Oxford, UK.

Refractive state and ocular dimensions were studied longitudinally in nine normal
marmosets. Animals were anaesthetised and examined (with some exceptions) at 4,
6, 7, 8, 10, 15, 24 and 39 weeks of age. Cycloplegic retinoscopy showed that
hyperopia early in life rapidly diminished. Refraction corrected for the artefact
of retinoscopy stabilised by 8 weeks of age, but at a slightly myopic value,
rather than at emmetropia. The ocular components continued to change throughout
the period studied. Corneal radius, measured by photokeratometry, increased
slightly during development. Anterior segment depth and vitreous chamber depth
(VCD), measured by A-scan ultrasonography, increased throughout development while
lens thickness initially increased and then decreased. Data from the eyes of
these normal animals were compared with that from the contralateral eyes of
animals which received short periods of monocular deprivation early in life
(Troilo, D., & Judge S.J. (1993). Ocular development and visual deprivation
myopia in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus). Vision Research, 33, 
1311-24); eyes which viewed through no lens or a plano lens (Graham, B. & Judge, 
S.J. (1999)). The effects of spectacle wear in infancy on eye growth and
refractive error in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Vision Research, 39,
189-206), and eyes of normal animals in another colony. There were no significant
differences between the first two groups and the normal animals in our colony
while age-matched animals from the other colony were slightly but significantly
less myopic than our animals.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(98)00188-6 
PMID: 10326129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3446. Gene Ther. 1998 Aug;5(8):1137-47.

High efficiency gene transfer to the central nervous system of rodents and
primates using herpes virus vectors lacking functional ICP27 and ICP34.5.

Howard MK(1), Kershaw T, Gibb B, Storey N, MacLean AR, Zeng BY, Tel BC, Jenner P,
Brown SM, Woolf CJ, Anderson PN, Coffin RS, Latchman DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pathology, University College London Medical School,
UK.

The safe and efficient use of herpes simplex virus (HSV)-based vectors to deliver
genes of potentially therapeutic benefit to the central nervous system will
require their effective disablement by the inactivation of viral genes required
for lytic growth. Here we report that viruses lacking functional genes for ICP27 
(which is required for growth in all cell types) and ICP34.5 (which is required
for growth in nondividing cell types) can deliver a marker gene to both the
rodent and primate CNS with high efficiency whilst producing relatively minimal
damage and having no effect on sodium currents in dorsal root ganglion neurons.
Such viruses paradoxically deliver genes at much higher efficiency than the less 
disabled single mutant lacking ICP34.5 alone and also, as expected, produce less 
damage in vivo. Moreover, unlike the single mutant lacking ICP27 the double
mutant viruses cannot revert to wild-type by acquistion of complimenting gene
sequences during growth of virus stocks in vitro on dividing cells expressing
ICP27 since artificial expression of ICP34.5 in these cells is not required. Such
ICP27-; ICP34.5- viruses thus offer a platform for the development of vectors
which are sufficiently safe for ultimate use in human gene therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.gt.3300700 
PMID: 10326038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

