

3446. Gene Ther. 1998 Aug;5(8):1137-47.

High efficiency gene transfer to the central nervous system of rodents and
primates using herpes virus vectors lacking functional ICP27 and ICP34.5.

Howard MK(1), Kershaw T, Gibb B, Storey N, MacLean AR, Zeng BY, Tel BC, Jenner P,
Brown SM, Woolf CJ, Anderson PN, Coffin RS, Latchman DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pathology, University College London Medical School,
UK.

The safe and efficient use of herpes simplex virus (HSV)-based vectors to deliver
genes of potentially therapeutic benefit to the central nervous system will
require their effective disablement by the inactivation of viral genes required
for lytic growth. Here we report that viruses lacking functional genes for ICP27 
(which is required for growth in all cell types) and ICP34.5 (which is required
for growth in nondividing cell types) can deliver a marker gene to both the
rodent and primate CNS with high efficiency whilst producing relatively minimal
damage and having no effect on sodium currents in dorsal root ganglion neurons.
Such viruses paradoxically deliver genes at much higher efficiency than the less 
disabled single mutant lacking ICP34.5 alone and also, as expected, produce less 
damage in vivo. Moreover, unlike the single mutant lacking ICP27 the double
mutant viruses cannot revert to wild-type by acquistion of complimenting gene
sequences during growth of virus stocks in vitro on dividing cells expressing
ICP27 since artificial expression of ICP34.5 in these cells is not required. Such
ICP27-; ICP34.5- viruses thus offer a platform for the development of vectors
which are sufficiently safe for ultimate use in human gene therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.gt.3300700 
PMID: 10326038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3447. Mol Hum Reprod. 1999 Apr;5(4):342-52.

Design and evaluation of a ZP3 peptide vaccine in a homologous primate model.

Paterson M(1), Wilson MR, Jennings ZA, van Duin M, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The concept of a safe, immunocontraceptive vaccine using the zona pellucida
glycoprotein 3 (ZP3) as an immunogen has been marred by the appearance of ovarian
dysfunction in several species. However, careful selection of epitopes on mouse
ZP3 have demonstrated that it is possible to segregate contraceptive bone
marrow-derived (B)-cell epitopes from the cytotoxic thymus-derived (T)-cell
epitopes thought to be responsible for inducing ovarian disease. B-cell epitopes 
on marmoset ZP3 (mstZP3) were identified by epitope mapping studies. Using a
panel of polyclonal antibodies against recombinant mstZP3, an immunodominant
epitope mstZP3(301-320) was identified. A chimeric peptide was co-linearly
synthesized incorporating this sequence with a promiscuous tetanus toxoid
T-helper cell epitope. Using the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as an
animal model, we have compared the consequences of active immunization with
homologous recombinant mstZP3 and mstZP3(301-320) chimeric peptide vaccine.
Long-term infertility was achieved using mstZP3 but at the expense of ovarian
function. In contrast, no disruption to ovarian function was observed following
mstZP3(301-320) immunization. Antibodies to this peptide immunolocalized to the
zona pellucida of both marmoset and human ovarian sections and inhibited human
sperm-zona binding by approximately 60% in vitro. However, in-vivo studies
indicated that targeting a single ZP3 epitope was insufficient to reliably and
consistently achieve a contraceptive effect.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/5.4.342 
PMID: 10321806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

