

3452. Free Radic Biol Med. 1999 Mar;26(5-6):495-500.

Positive correlation between mammalian life span and cellular resistance to
stress.

Kapahi P(1), Boulton ME, Kirkwood TB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine and The School of Biological Sciences,
University of Manchester, UK.

Identifying the mechanisms determining species-specific life spans is a central
challenge in understanding the biology of aging. Cellular stresses produce
damage, that may accumulate and cause aging. Evolution theory predicts that
long-lived species secure their longevity through investment in a more durable
soma, including enhanced cellular resistance to stress. To investigate whether
cells from long-lived species have better mechanisms to cope with oxidative and
non-oxidative stress, we compared cellular resistance of primary skin fibroblasts
from eight mammalian species with a range of life spans. Cell survival was
measured by the thymidine incorporation assay following stresses induced by
paraquat, hydrogen peroxide, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, sodium arsenite and
alkaline pH (sodium hydroxide). Significant positive correlations between cell
LD90 and maximum life span were found for all these stresses. Similar results
were obtained when cell survival was measured by the MTT assay, and when
lymphocytes from different species were compared. Cellular resistance to a
variety of oxidative and non-oxidative stresses was positively correlated with
mammalian longevity. Our results support the concept that the gene network
regulating the cellular response to stress is functionally important in aging and
longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(98)00323-2 
PMID: 10218637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3453. Zygote. 1999 Feb;7(1):27-35.

Cloning, sequencing and site of origin of the rat sperm receptor protein, ZP3.

Scobie GA(1), Kerr LE, MacDuff P, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

The ZP3 gene encodes for a zona glycoprotein that serves as both a cell-specific 
binding site for capacitated spermatozoa and an inducer of acrosomal exocytosis
during fertilisation. In this study we have determined the nucleotide sequence of
rat ZP3 (accession no. Y10823), predicted primary amino acid structure and
determined the cellular origin of this molecule within the ovary. Rat ZP3 was
found to have an open reading frame of 1272 nucleotides encoding a polypeptide
chain of 424 amino acids that was expressed exclusively by the actively growing
oocyte population. Rat ZP3 exhibited 91%, 78% and 66% identity with the mouse,
hamster and human homologues, respectively. Key features of mouse ZP3, including 
the number and location of cysteine and proline residues and N-linked
glycosylation sites, were also conserved in the rat homologue. The putative
O-linked glycosylation sites, a series of serine residues at ZP3(329-334), were
also conserved in rat and mouse ZP3, although immediately downstream of this site
the amino acid sequences deviated over a short stretch of amino acids. The
hydropathicity profile revealed two hydrophobic domains. The first was associated
with a putative N-terminal signal sequence which is unusual in the rat in
possessing a proline residue at the -1 position relative to the signal cleavage
site, a feature it shares with human and marmoset ZP3 but not mouse. The second
hydrophobic domain was observed at the C-terminus downstream of a TGF-beta type
III receptor domain that appears to be common to all ZP3 sequences examined to
date.

DOI: 10.1017/s0967199499000362 
PMID: 10216914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

