

3454. Blood. 1999 May 1;93(9):2839-48.

The common marmoset as a target preclinical primate model for cytokine and gene
therapy studies.

Hibino H(1), Tani K, Ikebuchi K, Wu MS, Sugiyama H, Nakazaki Y, Tanabe T,
Takahashi S, Tojo A, Suzuki S, Tanioka Y, Sugimoto Y, Nakahata T, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Hematology/Oncology and Clinical Oncology, The Institute of
Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Nonhuman primate models are useful to evaluate the safety and efficacy of new
therapeutic modalities, including gene therapy, before the inititation of
clinical trials in humans. With the aim of establishing safe and effective
approaches to therapeutic gene transfer, we have been focusing on a small New
World monkey, the common marmoset, as a target preclinical model. This animal is 
relatively inexpensive and easy to breed in limited space. First, we
characterized marmoset blood and bone marrow progenitor cells (BMPCs) and showed 
that human cytokines were effective to maintain and stimulate in culture. We then
examined their susceptibility to transduction by retroviral vectors. In a mixed
culture system containing both marmoset stromal cells and retroviral producer
cells, the transduction efficiency into BMPCs and peripheral blood progenitor
cells (PBPCs) was 12% to 24%. A series of marmosets then underwent
transplantation with autologous PBPCs transduced with a retroviral vector
carrying the multidrug resistance 1 gene (MDR1) and were followed for the
persistence of these cells in vivo. Proviral DNA was detectable by polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) in peripheral blood granulocytes and lymphocytes in the
recipients of gene transduced progenitors up to 400 days posttransplantation. To 
examine the function of the MDR1 gene in vivo, recipient maromsets were
challenged with docetaxel, an MDR effluxed drug, yet the overall level of gene
transfer attained in vivo (<1% in peripheral blood granulocytes) was not
sufficient to prevent the neutropenia induced by docetaxel treatment. Using this 
model, we safely and easily performed a series of in vivo studies in our small
animal center. Our results show that this small nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset, is a useful model for the evaluation of gene transfer methods targeting
hematopoietic stem cells.


PMID: 10216078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3455. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1999 May;289(2):752-61.

SR146131: a new potent, orally active, and selective nonpeptide cholecystokinin
subtype 1 receptor agonist. II. In vivo pharmacological characterization.

Bignon E(1), Alonso R, Arnone M, Boigegrain R, Brodin R, Gueudet C, Héaulme M,
Keane P, Landi M, Molimard JC, Olliero D, Poncelet M, Seban E, Simiand J, Soubrié
P, Pascal M, Maffrand JP, Le Fur G.

Author information: 
(1)Sanofi Recherche, 195 Toulouse Cedex, France. eric.bignon@sanofi.com

SR146131 is a potent and selective agonist at cholecystokinin subtype 1 (CCK1)
receptors in vitro. The present study evaluates the activity of the compound in
vivo. SR146131 completely inhibited gastric and gallbladder emptying in mice
(ED50 of 66 and 2.7 micrograms/kg p.o., respectively). SR146131 dose dependently 
reduced food intake in fasted rats (from 0.1 mg/kg p.o.), in nonfasted rats in
which food intake had been highly stimulated by the administration of
neuropeptide Y (1-36) (from 0.3 mg/kg p.o.), in fasted gerbils (from 0.1 mg/kg
p.o.), and in marmosets maintained on a restricted diet (from 3 mg/kg p.o.).
SR146131 (10 mg/kg p.o.) also increased the number of Fos-positive cells in the
hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of rats. Locomotor activity of mice was
reduced by orally administered SR146131 (from 0.3 mg/kg p.o.). When administered 
intrastriatally, SR146131 elicited contralateral turning behavior in mice.
Furthermore, orally administered SR146131 (0.3-10 mg/kg), also reduced the levels
of cerebellar cyclic GMP. Finally, SR146131 (0.1 microgram/kg to 1 mg/kg, p.o.)
significantly and dose dependently antagonized fluphenazine-induced mouth
movements in rats. The CCK1 antagonist SR27897B prevented all the effects of
SR146131. Conversely, SR146131 was unable to elicit any agonist or antagonist
effects in a model of CCK2 receptor stimulation in vivo. SR146131 is a very
potent and selective nonpeptide CCK1 agonist in vivo. SR146131 is more potent
than any other CCK1 agonists reported to date. Because pharmacodynamic studies
suggest that SR146131 should have a high absolute bioavailability, it may be a
promising drug for the treatment of eating and motor disorders in humans.


PMID: 10215649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

