

3455. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1999 May;289(2):752-61.

SR146131: a new potent, orally active, and selective nonpeptide cholecystokinin
subtype 1 receptor agonist. II. In vivo pharmacological characterization.

Bignon E(1), Alonso R, Arnone M, Boigegrain R, Brodin R, Gueudet C, Héaulme M,
Keane P, Landi M, Molimard JC, Olliero D, Poncelet M, Seban E, Simiand J, Soubrié
P, Pascal M, Maffrand JP, Le Fur G.

Author information: 
(1)Sanofi Recherche, 195 Toulouse Cedex, France. eric.bignon@sanofi.com

SR146131 is a potent and selective agonist at cholecystokinin subtype 1 (CCK1)
receptors in vitro. The present study evaluates the activity of the compound in
vivo. SR146131 completely inhibited gastric and gallbladder emptying in mice
(ED50 of 66 and 2.7 micrograms/kg p.o., respectively). SR146131 dose dependently 
reduced food intake in fasted rats (from 0.1 mg/kg p.o.), in nonfasted rats in
which food intake had been highly stimulated by the administration of
neuropeptide Y (1-36) (from 0.3 mg/kg p.o.), in fasted gerbils (from 0.1 mg/kg
p.o.), and in marmosets maintained on a restricted diet (from 3 mg/kg p.o.).
SR146131 (10 mg/kg p.o.) also increased the number of Fos-positive cells in the
hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of rats. Locomotor activity of mice was
reduced by orally administered SR146131 (from 0.3 mg/kg p.o.). When administered 
intrastriatally, SR146131 elicited contralateral turning behavior in mice.
Furthermore, orally administered SR146131 (0.3-10 mg/kg), also reduced the levels
of cerebellar cyclic GMP. Finally, SR146131 (0.1 microgram/kg to 1 mg/kg, p.o.)
significantly and dose dependently antagonized fluphenazine-induced mouth
movements in rats. The CCK1 antagonist SR27897B prevented all the effects of
SR146131. Conversely, SR146131 was unable to elicit any agonist or antagonist
effects in a model of CCK2 receptor stimulation in vivo. SR146131 is a very
potent and selective nonpeptide CCK1 agonist in vivo. SR146131 is more potent
than any other CCK1 agonists reported to date. Because pharmacodynamic studies
suggest that SR146131 should have a high absolute bioavailability, it may be a
promising drug for the treatment of eating and motor disorders in humans.


PMID: 10215649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3456. Pharm Res. 1999 Mar;16(3):434-40.

In vitro and in situ permeability of a 'second generation' hydroxypyridinone oral
iron chelator: correlation with physico-chemical properties and oral activity.

Lowther N(1), Fox R, Faller B, Nick H, Jin Y, Sergejew T, Hirschberg Y, Oberle R,
Donnelly H.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Analytical Development, Novartis Horsham Research Centre,
West Sussex, United Kingdom. nicholas.lowther@pharma.novartis.com

PURPOSE: The in vitro and in situ transport of CGP 65015
((+)-3-hydroxy-1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2-hydroxyphenyl-methyl-1H-pyridin-4-on e), a
novel oral iron chelator, is described. The predictive power of these data in
assessing intestinal absorption in man is described.
METHODS: Caco-2 epithelial monolayer and in situ rat jejunum perfusion intestinal
permeability models were utilized. In vivo iron excretion and preliminary animal 
pharmacokinetic experiments were described. Ionization constants and
octanol/aqueous partition coefficients were measured potentiometrically.
Solubilities and intrinsic dissolution rates were determined using standard
procedures.
RESULTS: Caco-2 cell (Papp approximately 0.25 x 10(-6) cm x s(-1)) and rat
jejunum (Pw approximately 0.4) permeabilities of CGP 65015 were determined. The
log D(pH 7.4) of CGP 65015 was 0.58 and its aqueous solubility was < 0.5 mg x
ml(-1) (pH 3-9). The intrinsic dissolution rate of CGP 65015 in USP simulated
intestinal fluid was 0.012 mg x min(-1) x cm(-2). CGP 65015 promotes iron
excretion effectively and dose dependently in animals.
CONCLUSIONS: Caco-2 and rat intestinal permeabilities predict incomplete oral
absorption of CGP 65015 in man. Preliminary rat pharmacokinetics support this.
Physico-chemical data are, also, in line and suggest that CGP 65015 may, in
addition, be solubility/dissolution rate limited in vivo. Nevertheless, early
animal pharmacological data demonstrate that CGP 65015 is a viable oral iron
chelator candidate.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1018886005136 
PMID: 10213376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

