

3458. J Med Primatol. 1998 Dec;27(6):319-24.

Gastrointestinal tumors observed in nonhuman primates at the German primate
center.

Brack M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, German Primate Center, Göttingen.

Twenty-six gastrointestinal tumors were observed in twenty-three nonhuman
primates during routine necropsies at the German Primate Center, Göttingen. The
majority (15 cases) were colorectal mucoid adenocarcinomas in cotton-top tamarins
(Saguinus oedipus), which in two animals were associated with gastric adenomas.
Three cases of small intestinal mucoid adenocarcinomas occurred in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). One colonic leiomyoma was observed in a dwarf
galago (Galagoides demidovii) and another one in a cotton top tamarin. Singular
findings were a tubular adeno-carcinoma of the ileo-caecal valve in a
saddle-backed tamarin (Saguinus fuscicollis) and a lymphosarcoma of jejunum,
ileum, and colon in another saddle-backed tamarin. Multiple tubular
adeno-carcinomas of the colonic diverticles occurred in an aged rhesus monkey
(Macaca mulatta). The findings are discussed in comparison to the situation in
man.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1998.tb00082.x 
PMID: 10203013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3459. J Med Primatol. 1998 Dec;27(6):298-302.

Intestinal cryptococcosis in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Juan-Sallés C(1), Marco A, Domingo M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Pathology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Autonomous
University of Barcelona, Bellaterra, Spain.

A five-year-old female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) died after a
one-month clinical course of nonspecific signs. Pathologic findings were acute
diffuse fibrinonecrotizing enteritis and granulomatous endolymphangitis of
intestinal and mesenteric lymphatic vessels. Both lesions were associated with a 
marked proliferation of Mayer's mucicarmine-positive, 4 to 15 microm yeasts that 
were surrounded by a wide clear halo. The infection was probably acquired by oral
route. Other findings included moderate multifocal granulomatous and necrotizing 
hepatitis and mesangial nephropathy. Although the immunological status of this
marmoset was unknown, cryptococcosis might induce primary lethal intestinal
infections in callitrichids.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1998.tb00079.x 
PMID: 10203010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

