

346. Stem Cell Res. 2020 Apr;44:101740. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2020.101740. Epub 2020 Feb 
21.

Generation of a male common marmoset embryonic stem cell line DSY127-BV8VT1
carrying double reporters specific for the germ cell linage using the CRISPR-Cas9
and PiggyBac transposase systems.

Yoshimatsu S(1), Sato T(2), Yamamoto M(3), Sasaki E(4), Nakajima M(2), Nakamura
M(2), Shiozawa S(2), Noce T(5), Okano H(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan;
Laboratory for Proteolytic Neuroscience, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Saitama,
Japan. Electronic address: yoshima@a7.keio.jp.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)ICLAS Monitoring Center, Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kanagawa,
Japan.
(4)Department of Marmoset Biology and Medicine, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kanagawa, Japan.
(5)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan.
(6)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan;
Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

BLIMP1 (PRDM1) and VASA (DDX4) play pivotal roles in the development of the germ 
cell linage. Importantly, these genes are specifically expressed in germ cells;
BLIMP1 in primordial germ cells (PGCs) to early-stage gonocytes, and VASA in
migration-stage PGCs to mature gametes. The high reproductive efficiency of
common marmosets (marmosets; Callithrix jacchus) makes them advantageous for use 
in germ cell research. We herein report the generation of a male marmoset
embryonic stem cell (ESC) line harboring BLIMP1 and DDX4 double reporters. This
ESC line will be a useful tool for investigating male gametogenesis in non-human 
primates.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2020.101740 
PMID: 32151954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing Interest H.O. serves as 
a paid scientific advisor at SanBio Co. Ltd. and K Pharma Inc. Rest of the
authors declare there are no financial or non-financial competing interests with 
regard to this work.


347. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Jun;126:110060. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110060. Epub
2020 Mar 4.

Comparison of the pharmacological profiles of arginine vasopressin and oxytocin
analogs at marmoset, macaque, and human vasopressin 1a receptor.

Pierce ML(1), French JA(2), Murray TF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, 2500
California Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, 6001 Dodge St., Omaha,
NE 68182, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, 2500
California Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178, USA. Electronic address:
tfmurray@creighton.edu.

Arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) are nonapeptides that bind to
G-protein coupled receptors and influence social behaviors. Consensus mammalian
AVP and OT (Leu8-OT) sequences are highly conserved. In marmosets, an amino acid 
change in the 8th position of the peptide (Pro8-OT) exhibits unique structural
and functional properties. There is ∼85 % structural homology between the OT
receptor (OTR) and vasopressin 1a receptor (V1aR) resulting in significant
cross-reactivity between the ligands and receptors. Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)
cells expressing marmoset (mV1aR), macaque (qV1aR), or human vasopressin receptor
1a (hV1aR) were used to assess AVP, Leu8-OT and Pro8-OT pharmacological profiles.
To assess activation of Gq, functional assays were performed using Fluo-3 to
measure ligand-induced Ca2+ mobilization. In all three V1aR-expressing cell
lines, AVP was more potent than the OT ligands. To assess ligand-induced
hyperpolarization, FLIPR Membrane Potential (FMP) assays were performed. In all
three V1aR lines, AVP was more potent than the OT analogs. The distinctive
U-shaped concentration-response curve displayed by AVP may reflect enhanced
desensitization of the mV1aR and hV1aR, which is not observed with qV1aR.
Evaluation of Ca2+-activated potassium (K+) channels using the inhibitors apamin,
paxilline, and TRAM-34 demonstrated that both intermediate and large conductance 
Ca2+-activated K+ channels contributed to membrane hyperpolarization, with
different pharmacological profiles identified for distinct ligand-receptor
combinations. Taken together, these data suggest differences in ligand-receptor
signaling that may underlie differences in social behavior. Integrative studies
of behavior, genetics and ligand-receptor interaction will help elucidate the
connection between receptor pharmacology and social behaviors.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110060 
PMCID: PMC7250216
PMID: 32145592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.

