

3460. Sci Am. 1999 Apr;280(4):68-73.

Embryonic stem cells for medicine.

Pedersen RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Francisco, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0499-68 
PMID: 10201118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3461. J Med Chem. 1999 Apr 8;42(7):1306-11.

Quinuclidine inhibitors of 2,3-oxidosqualene cyclase-lanosterol synthase:
optimization from lipid profiles.

Brown GR(1), Hollinshead DM, Stokes ES, Clarke DS, Eakin MA, Foubister AJ,
Glossop SC, Griffiths D, Johnson MC, McTaggart F, Mirrlees DJ, Smith GJ, Wood R.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Metabolism & Muscoskeletal Research Department, Zeneca
Pharmaceuticals, Alderley Park, Macclesfield, Cheshire SK10 4TG, UK.
George.Brown@alderly.zeneca.com

Novel 3-substituted quinuclidine inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis are
reported. Compounds were optimized against oxidosqualene cyclase-lanosterol
synthase (OSC) inhibition in vivo, rather than by the conventional optimization
of structure-activity relationship information based on in vitro OSC inhibition. 
Thus, examination of HPLC lipid profiles from orally dosed rats showed
cholesterol biosynthetic intermediates and whether cholesterol levels were
reduced. A new substituted quinuclidine pharmacophore 18a-c was rapidly found for
the inhibition of OSC, and the most promising inhibitors were validated by the
confirmation of potent OSC inhibition. Compound 16 gave an IC50 value of 83 +/-
11 nM for human and an IC50 value of 124 +/- 14 nM, for rat, coupled with oral
and selective inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis derived from OSC inhibition 
(rat, ED50 = 1.3 +/- 0.7 mg/kg, n = 5; marmoset, 15 mg/kg dose, n = 3, caused
complete inhibition). These 3-substituted quinuclidines, which were derived from 
a quinuclidine series previously known to inhibit cholesterol biosynthesis at the
squalene synthase step, may afford a novel series of hypocholesterolemic agents
acting by the inhibition of OSC.

DOI: 10.1021/jm990038q 
PMID: 10197973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

