

3461. J Med Chem. 1999 Apr 8;42(7):1306-11.

Quinuclidine inhibitors of 2,3-oxidosqualene cyclase-lanosterol synthase:
optimization from lipid profiles.

Brown GR(1), Hollinshead DM, Stokes ES, Clarke DS, Eakin MA, Foubister AJ,
Glossop SC, Griffiths D, Johnson MC, McTaggart F, Mirrlees DJ, Smith GJ, Wood R.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Metabolism & Muscoskeletal Research Department, Zeneca
Pharmaceuticals, Alderley Park, Macclesfield, Cheshire SK10 4TG, UK.
George.Brown@alderly.zeneca.com

Novel 3-substituted quinuclidine inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis are
reported. Compounds were optimized against oxidosqualene cyclase-lanosterol
synthase (OSC) inhibition in vivo, rather than by the conventional optimization
of structure-activity relationship information based on in vitro OSC inhibition. 
Thus, examination of HPLC lipid profiles from orally dosed rats showed
cholesterol biosynthetic intermediates and whether cholesterol levels were
reduced. A new substituted quinuclidine pharmacophore 18a-c was rapidly found for
the inhibition of OSC, and the most promising inhibitors were validated by the
confirmation of potent OSC inhibition. Compound 16 gave an IC50 value of 83 +/-
11 nM for human and an IC50 value of 124 +/- 14 nM, for rat, coupled with oral
and selective inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis derived from OSC inhibition 
(rat, ED50 = 1.3 +/- 0.7 mg/kg, n = 5; marmoset, 15 mg/kg dose, n = 3, caused
complete inhibition). These 3-substituted quinuclidines, which were derived from 
a quinuclidine series previously known to inhibit cholesterol biosynthesis at the
squalene synthase step, may afford a novel series of hypocholesterolemic agents
acting by the inhibition of OSC.

DOI: 10.1021/jm990038q 
PMID: 10197973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3462. J Virol. 1999 May;73(5):3913-9.

Role of cellular tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors in NF-kappaB
activation and lymphocyte transformation by herpesvirus Saimiri STP.

Lee H(1), Choi JK, Li M, Kaye K, Kieff E, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

The STP oncoproteins of the herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) subgroup A strain 11 and
subgroup C strain 488 are now found to be stably associated with tumor necrosis
factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) 1, 2, or 3. Mutational analyses
identified residues of PXQXT/S in STP-A11 as critical for TRAF association. In
addition, a somewhat divergent region of STP-C488 is critical for TRAF
association. Mutational analysis also revealed that STP-C488 induced NF-kappaB
activation that was correlated with its ability to associate with TRAFs. The HVS 
STP-C488 P10-->R mutant was deficient in human T-lymphocyte transformation to
interleukin-2-independent growth but showed wild-type phenotype for marmoset
T-lymphocyte transformation in vitro and in vivo. The STP-C488 P10-->R mutant was
also defective in Rat-1 fibroblast transformation, and fibroblast cell
transformation was blocked by a TRAF2 dominant-negative mutant. These data
implicate TRAFs in STP-C488-mediated transformation of human lymphocytes and
rodent fibroblasts. Other factors are implicated in immortalization of common
marmoset T lymphocytes and may also be critical in the transformation of human
lymphocytes and rodent fibroblasts.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.73.5.3913-3919.1999 
PMCID: PMC104169
PMID: 10196286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

