

3462. J Virol. 1999 May;73(5):3913-9.

Role of cellular tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors in NF-kappaB
activation and lymphocyte transformation by herpesvirus Saimiri STP.

Lee H(1), Choi JK, Li M, Kaye K, Kieff E, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

The STP oncoproteins of the herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) subgroup A strain 11 and
subgroup C strain 488 are now found to be stably associated with tumor necrosis
factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) 1, 2, or 3. Mutational analyses
identified residues of PXQXT/S in STP-A11 as critical for TRAF association. In
addition, a somewhat divergent region of STP-C488 is critical for TRAF
association. Mutational analysis also revealed that STP-C488 induced NF-kappaB
activation that was correlated with its ability to associate with TRAFs. The HVS 
STP-C488 P10-->R mutant was deficient in human T-lymphocyte transformation to
interleukin-2-independent growth but showed wild-type phenotype for marmoset
T-lymphocyte transformation in vitro and in vivo. The STP-C488 P10-->R mutant was
also defective in Rat-1 fibroblast transformation, and fibroblast cell
transformation was blocked by a TRAF2 dominant-negative mutant. These data
implicate TRAFs in STP-C488-mediated transformation of human lymphocytes and
rodent fibroblasts. Other factors are implicated in immortalization of common
marmoset T lymphocytes and may also be critical in the transformation of human
lymphocytes and rodent fibroblasts.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.73.5.3913-3919.1999 
PMCID: PMC104169
PMID: 10196286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3463. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1999 Apr;11(3):459-76.

Phylogenetic relationships of the New World monkeys (Primates, platyrrhini) based
on nuclear G6PD DNA sequences.

von Dornum M(1), Ruvolo M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
02138, USA. m.dornum@ucl.ac.uk

In order to test hypotheses about the phylogenetic relationships among living
genera of New World monkeys, 1.3 kb of DNA sequence information was collected for
two introns of the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) locus, encoded on the
X chromosome, for 24 species of New World monkeys. These data were analyzed using
a maximum parsimony algorithm. The strict consensus of the three
most-parsimonious gene trees that result shows support for the following clades: 
a pitheciine clade including Callicebus within which Chiropotes and Cacajao are
sister taxa, an Alouatta-atelin clade within which Brachyteles is the sister
taxon of Lagothrix and which is sister to another clade containing the
callitrichines, and a callitrichine/Aotus/Cebus/Saimiri clade. Within the
callitrichines, Callimico is the sister taxon of Callithrix. Cebus and Saimiri
form a clade. These results are broadly consistent with previously published DNA 
sequence analyses of platyrrhine phylogeny and provide additional support for
groupings provisionally proposed in those earlier studies. Nevertheless,
questions remain as to the relative phylogenetic placement of Leontopithecus and 
Saguinus, the branching order within the Aotus/Cebus/Saimiri/callitrichine clade,
and the placement of the pitheciine clade relative to the atelines and the
callitrichines.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1998.0582 
PMID: 10196085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

