

3466. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Mar 29;406(1):1-14.

Analysis of the short wavelength-sensitive ("blue") cone mosaic in the primate
retina: comparison of New World and Old World monkeys.

Martin PR(1), Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. paulm@physiol.usyd.edu.au

The distribution of short wavelength-sensitive (SWS or "blue") cone
photoreceptors was compared in primates with dichromatic ("red-green colour
blind") and trichromatic colour vision. We compared a New World species, the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), with an Old World species, the macaque monkey
(Macaca nemestrina). The SWS cones were identified by their immunoreactivity to
an antiserum against the human SWS cone opsin. A single retina from a male
capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) also was studied. The SWS cones make up less than 
10% of all cone photoreceptors throughout the retina of all animals studied. In
marmoset, the peak spatial density of SWS cones is close to 10,000/mm2 at the
foveola. In macaque, the peak spatial density of SWS cones, close to 6,000/mm2,
is at the fovea, but SWS cones are absent within 50 microm of the centre of the
foveola. In both species, the density of SWS cones is higher on the nasal retinal
axis than at corresponding eccentricities on the other retinal axes. The SWS
cones in macaque are arranged in a semiregular array, but they are distributed
randomly in marmoset. There is no difference in the spatial density or local
arrangement of SWS cones between dichromatic and trichromatic marmosets. The
results suggest that the SWS cone photoreceptor system is subject to different
developmental and evolutionary constraints than those that have led to the
formation of the red-green photoreceptor systems in primate vision.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19990329)406:1<1::aid-cne1>3.0.co;2-1 
PMID: 10100889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3467. Eur J Pharmacol. 1999 Feb 26;368(1):57-66.

New hyperprolactinemia and anovulation model in common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and effect of cabergoline.

Moro M(1), Inada Y, Kojima M, Miyata H, Komatsu H, Torii R.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Laboratories, Kissei Pharmaceutical, Kashiwabara, Nagano,
Japan.

We aimed to develop an anovulation model, using sulpiride-induced
hyperprolactinemia in common marmosets. The serum prolactin level gradually
increased during the twice-daily administration of sulpiride and reached a
plateau after 4 days. Sulpiride produced as big a response at 10 mg kg(-1) as at 
50 mg kg(-1). In this study, the length of the ovarian cycle was approximately 30
days in normal common marmosets. Serum progesterone and estradiol levels showed
no consistent change during the first 2 months of treatment with sulpiride. When 
treatment with sulpiride had been continued for more than 2 months, serum
progesterone and estradiol levels fell to within the range seen in the follicular
phase of the normal cycle and absence of ovulation was recognized by laparoscopy.
A single oral administration of cabergoline (at doses between 0.01 and 0.1 mg
kg(-1)) dose dependently reduced the elevated serum prolactin level.
Bromocriptine (at an oral dose of 10 mg kg(-1)) also reduced the serum prolactin 
level at 4 and 8 h after its administration. With bromocriptine, the prolactin
level had recovered at 24 h, but with cabergoline at doses of 0.05 mg kg(-1) or
more, it had still not recovered at 48 h. In anovulatory common marmosets, oral
administration of cabergoline at a daily dose of 0.05 mg kg(-1) restored ovarian 
function and resulted in ovulation in 100% of the group (following a reduction in
the serum prolactin level). Bromocriptine at a daily oral dose of 10 mg kg(-1)
resulted in ovulation in 67% of the group, but this dose was about 200 times
higher than the dose of cabergoline. We could produce an anovulatory model
induced by sulpiride repeatedly administered over a long time period. It is
suggested that, in this anovulatory model in common marmosets, cabergoline has a 
potent and long-lasting action as a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, and thus could 
be a useful drug for the treatment of galactorrhea and hyperprolactinemic
amenorrhea and/or anovulation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(98)00940-6 
PMID: 10096770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

