

347. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Jun;126:110060. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110060. Epub
2020 Mar 4.

Comparison of the pharmacological profiles of arginine vasopressin and oxytocin
analogs at marmoset, macaque, and human vasopressin 1a receptor.

Pierce ML(1), French JA(2), Murray TF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, 2500
California Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, 6001 Dodge St., Omaha,
NE 68182, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, 2500
California Plaza, Omaha, NE 68178, USA. Electronic address:
tfmurray@creighton.edu.

Arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) are nonapeptides that bind to
G-protein coupled receptors and influence social behaviors. Consensus mammalian
AVP and OT (Leu8-OT) sequences are highly conserved. In marmosets, an amino acid 
change in the 8th position of the peptide (Pro8-OT) exhibits unique structural
and functional properties. There is ∼85 % structural homology between the OT
receptor (OTR) and vasopressin 1a receptor (V1aR) resulting in significant
cross-reactivity between the ligands and receptors. Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)
cells expressing marmoset (mV1aR), macaque (qV1aR), or human vasopressin receptor
1a (hV1aR) were used to assess AVP, Leu8-OT and Pro8-OT pharmacological profiles.
To assess activation of Gq, functional assays were performed using Fluo-3 to
measure ligand-induced Ca2+ mobilization. In all three V1aR-expressing cell
lines, AVP was more potent than the OT ligands. To assess ligand-induced
hyperpolarization, FLIPR Membrane Potential (FMP) assays were performed. In all
three V1aR lines, AVP was more potent than the OT analogs. The distinctive
U-shaped concentration-response curve displayed by AVP may reflect enhanced
desensitization of the mV1aR and hV1aR, which is not observed with qV1aR.
Evaluation of Ca2+-activated potassium (K+) channels using the inhibitors apamin,
paxilline, and TRAM-34 demonstrated that both intermediate and large conductance 
Ca2+-activated K+ channels contributed to membrane hyperpolarization, with
different pharmacological profiles identified for distinct ligand-receptor
combinations. Taken together, these data suggest differences in ligand-receptor
signaling that may underlie differences in social behavior. Integrative studies
of behavior, genetics and ligand-receptor interaction will help elucidate the
connection between receptor pharmacology and social behaviors.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110060 
PMCID: PMC7250216
PMID: 32145592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


348. J Neurophysiol. 2020 Apr 1;123(4):1420-1426. doi: 10.1152/jn.00300.2019. Epub
2020 Mar 4.

A platform for semiautomated voluntary training of common marmosets for
behavioral neuroscience.

Walker JD(1)(2), Pirschel F(2), Gidmark N(3), MacLean JN(1)(4)(5), Hatsopoulos
NG(1)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois.
(2)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(3)Biology Department, Knox College, Galesburg, Illinois.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(5)Grossman Institute for Neuroscience, Quantitative Biology and Human Behavior, 
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.

Generally behavioral neuroscience studies of the common marmoset employ
adaptations of well-established training methods used with macaque monkeys.
However, in many cases these approaches do not readily generalize to marmosets
indicating a need for alternatives. Here we present the development of one such
alternate: a platform for semiautomated, voluntary in-home cage behavioral
training that allows for the study of naturalistic behaviors. We describe the
design and production of a modular behavioral training apparatus using CAD
software and digital fabrication. We demonstrate that this apparatus permits
voluntary behavioral training and data collection throughout the marmoset's
waking hours with little experimenter intervention. Furthermore, we demonstrate
the use of this apparatus to reconstruct the kinematics of the marmoset's upper
limb movement during natural foraging behavior.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The study of
marmosets in neuroscience has grown rapidly and presents unique challenges. We
address those challenges with an innovative platform for semiautomated, voluntary
training that allows marmosets to train throughout their waking hours with
minimal experimenter intervention. We describe the use of this platform to
capture upper limb kinematics during foraging and to expand the opportunities for
behavioral training beyond the limits of traditional training sessions. This
flexible platform can easily incorporate other tasks.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00300.2019 
PMCID: PMC7191516
PMID: 32130092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

