

3471. Am J Primatol. 1999;47(3):255-61.

Ingestion of calcium solutions by common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Power ML(1), Tardif SD, Layne DG, Schulkin J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoological Research, National Zoological Park, Washington, DC
20008, USA. MPOWER@NZP.SI.EDU

Callithrix jacchus, the common marmoset, is a small New World primate that feeds 
on insects, fruit, and gum, and has a high reproductive rate for a primate.
Insects are generally a poor source of dietary calcium, while gums may contain
significant levels of calcium. Their high reproductive rate also suggests that
reproductive female C. jacchus might be susceptible to calcium deficiency. Thus, 
we hypothesized that common marmosets might find solutions containing calcium to 
be palatable. We used choice experiments to examine this phenomenon in 14 male
and 19 female common marmosets. Animals were presented with identical water
bottles containing either deionized water or a calcium lactate solution (either
2% or 4% calcium lactate by weight) and intake was measured. Serum 25-OH-vitamin 
D was monitored in a subset of the animals in the experiment to examine the role 
of vitamin D in this behavior. Our results demonstrated that C. jacchus can
distinguish between plain water and a calcium lactate solution, and that in
general they prefer calcium solutions. Although animals with marginal vitamin D
status did have strong preferences for calcium solutions, they did not ingest
significantly more of the calcium solutions than animals that were vitamin
D-replete. Nulliparous females and males did not differ in the amounts of calcium
solutions ingested. Lactating females ingested the greatest volume of the calcium
solutions.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)47:3<255::AID-AJP7>3.0.CO;2-W 
PMID: 10075439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3472. Am J Primatol. 1999;47(3):241-53.

The influence of abiotic factors on the onset and cessation of activity of
semi-free Callithrix jacchus.

Suchi S(1), Rothe H.

Author information: 
(1)Ethologische Station der Anthropologischen Einrichtungen, Institut für
Zoologie und Anthropologie, Universität Göttingen, Germany.

The influence of abiotic environmental factors on the period of activity of a
single group of South American common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus,
Callitrichidae, Primates) was investigated under semi-free conditions. A group of
eight members had a territory consisting of a heated wooden hut with a veranda,
surrounded by an open area with a few trees (ca. 3.5 m high) and three runways
made out of roofing slats, on which feeding places and sleeping boxes were fixed.
The food supply was held constant throughout the observation period with respect 
to amount, composition and spatial distribution. From July to November 1995, the 
times of the onset and cessation of activity were determined using a video
camera. An electronic weather station recorded the temperature, humidity, air
pressure, wind speed, wind direction, precipitation, and light intensity at
intervals of 5 min. There was a linear correlation between day light length and
the length of the period of activity over a day length of 10 to 14 hr. With
shorter day lengths, the marmosets were also active during the twilight, whereas 
with longer day lengths a sleep phase during the late morning was introduced.
Ambient temperature and humidity had also an effect on the time when activity
began or ceased. Callithrix jacchus has one of the longest activity periods
within the Callitrichidae. The time of sunrise or sunset, temperature, and
humidity accounted for 66.2% of the variation in the time when activity began and
75.5% of the variance in the cessation of activity of the study group within the 
multivariate model. The results from the present study add to the indications
that in the Callitrichidae there is a strong selection pressure for the highest
possible energy saving during the comparatively long phase of inactivity.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)47:3<241::AID-AJP6>3.0.CO;2-B 
PMID: 10075438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

