

3473. Am J Primatol. 1999;47(3):209-22.

Effects of separation and novelty on distress vocalizations and cortisol in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland 20837,
USA. jn41j@nih.gov

In socially-bonding species, separation from familiar attachment figures is
widely known to stimulate a physiological and behavioral stress response. This
study investigated the hormonal and vocal responses of adult common marmosets to 
separation from familiar group members and to 24 hr of cohabitation with an
unfamiliar opposite-sex conspecific. All subjects were removed from their home
cages and placed into a novel environment for 20 min. In one group, marmosets
were exposed to an unfamiliar, opposite-sex partner in the novel environment and 
remained paired with this partner for the 24 hr test period. In three other
groups, marmosets experienced the novel environment alone and subsequently were
returned to their original social- or single-housing condition, or kept separate 
from their social groups for a 24 h period. Blood samples were collected the day 
before, and at 30 min, 90 min, and at 24 h after separation. Cortisol responses
were differentially affected by the length of separation and the presence of
unfamiliar conspecifics. Brief separation followed by the return to the social
group had minimal effect on plasma cortisol levels. All marmosets produced high
levels of separation calls in the novel environment, but there was no apparent
relationship between calling and cortisol levels. The lack of a temporal
relationship between the production of distress vocalizations and serum cortisol 
has previously been noted in squirrel monkey and rhesus monkey infant separation 
studies; the behavioral and physiological responses to separation appear to be
similarly dissociated in the marmoset. Further, the characteristics of a
separation environment can differentially affect the hormonal response by adult
marmosets without differentially affecting their behavioral response.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)47:3<209::AID-AJP3>3.0.CO;2-0 
PMID: 10075435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3474. Physiol Behav. 1999 Jan 1-15;65(4-5):849-54.

Energy intake during reproduction in captive common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Nievergelt CM(1), Martin RD.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute, University of ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.
cniever@biomail.ucsd.edu

Among haplorhine primates, the highly specialized Callitrichidae (marmosets and
tamarins) are expected to have comparatively high reproductive costs, a feature
that might be related to the evolution of a cooperative breeding system. Costs of
reproduction in captivity were investigated on the basis of changes in energy
intake and body weight during pregnancy and lactation in pair-living female and
male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The experimental design had little
effect on carrying behavior, food intake, and body weight of adults, but a
negative transitory effect of offspring body weight. Increased energetic
requirements during pregnancy did not result in a higher energy intake in
females. During lactation, females increased their energy intake up to 100% and
gradually lost weight, suggesting even higher costs. Extensive carrying behavior 
by males, on the other hand, did not result in an increased energy intake in
males, or in changes in male body weight. It is suggested that, at least in
captivity, increased energetic demands during reproduction are reduced by
behavior allocations towards energetically less expensive behaviors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(98)00249-2 
PMID: 10073491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

