

3474. Physiol Behav. 1999 Jan 1-15;65(4-5):849-54.

Energy intake during reproduction in captive common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Nievergelt CM(1), Martin RD.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute, University of ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.
cniever@biomail.ucsd.edu

Among haplorhine primates, the highly specialized Callitrichidae (marmosets and
tamarins) are expected to have comparatively high reproductive costs, a feature
that might be related to the evolution of a cooperative breeding system. Costs of
reproduction in captivity were investigated on the basis of changes in energy
intake and body weight during pregnancy and lactation in pair-living female and
male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The experimental design had little
effect on carrying behavior, food intake, and body weight of adults, but a
negative transitory effect of offspring body weight. Increased energetic
requirements during pregnancy did not result in a higher energy intake in
females. During lactation, females increased their energy intake up to 100% and
gradually lost weight, suggesting even higher costs. Extensive carrying behavior 
by males, on the other hand, did not result in an increased energy intake in
males, or in changes in male body weight. It is suggested that, at least in
captivity, increased energetic demands during reproduction are reduced by
behavior allocations towards energetically less expensive behaviors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(98)00249-2 
PMID: 10073491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3475. Exp Anim. 1999 Jan;48(1):31-6.

Anatomical structure and surface epithelial distribution in the nasal cavity of
the common cotton-eared marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wako K(1), Hiratsuka H, Katsuta O, Tsuchitani M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

To validate use of the common cotton-eared marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in
inhalation toxicity studies, its nasal morphology was examined. The nasal
turbinates each consisted of one maxilloturbinate and one ethmoturbinate: these
were more planar in structure than the comparable structures of rodents or dogs. 
The nasal cavity epithelia comprised squamous epithelium (SE), nasal transitional
epithelium (NTE), respiratory epithelium (RE) and olfactory epithelium (OE),
listed in order of occurrence from anterior to posterior positions. NTE was
distributed as a narrow band lying between SE and RE. OE was limited to the
dorsal part of the cavity, which was structurally similar to that of the macaque 
or man. Overall, this study revealed structural the similarity of the whole nasal
cavity in the marmoset to that of macaques or humans. Prediction of nasal cavity 
changes in man based on extrapolation from experimentally induced changes in the 
common marmoset therefore seems likely to be feasible, making it a useful animal 
model for inhalation studies.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.48.31 
PMID: 10067203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

