

3475. Exp Anim. 1999 Jan;48(1):31-6.

Anatomical structure and surface epithelial distribution in the nasal cavity of
the common cotton-eared marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wako K(1), Hiratsuka H, Katsuta O, Tsuchitani M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

To validate use of the common cotton-eared marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in
inhalation toxicity studies, its nasal morphology was examined. The nasal
turbinates each consisted of one maxilloturbinate and one ethmoturbinate: these
were more planar in structure than the comparable structures of rodents or dogs. 
The nasal cavity epithelia comprised squamous epithelium (SE), nasal transitional
epithelium (NTE), respiratory epithelium (RE) and olfactory epithelium (OE),
listed in order of occurrence from anterior to posterior positions. NTE was
distributed as a narrow band lying between SE and RE. OE was limited to the
dorsal part of the cavity, which was structurally similar to that of the macaque 
or man. Overall, this study revealed structural the similarity of the whole nasal
cavity in the marmoset to that of macaques or humans. Prediction of nasal cavity 
changes in man based on extrapolation from experimentally induced changes in the 
common marmoset therefore seems likely to be feasible, making it a useful animal 
model for inhalation studies.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.48.31 
PMID: 10067203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3476. Behav Pharmacol. 1998 Mar;9(2):179-81.

SR 141716, a CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist, selectively reduces sweet food 
intake in marmoset.

Simiand J(1), Keane M, Keane PE, Soubri√© P.

Author information: 
(1)Sanofi Recherche, Toulouse, France.

SR 141716 (1 and 3 mg/kg p.o.), a selective central (CB1) cannabinoid receptor
antagonist, selectively reduced feeding of a very highly palatable cane-sugar
mixture in marmosets. In contrast, standard primate pellet intake was not
modified at the lower dose, but was slightly increased (+29%;p < 0.01) by the
higher dose of SR 141716. These results are in agreement with the hypothesis that
endogenous cannabinoid systems are involved in the modulation of the appetitive
value of food.


PMID: 10065938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

