

3476. Behav Pharmacol. 1998 Mar;9(2):179-81.

SR 141716, a CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist, selectively reduces sweet food 
intake in marmoset.

Simiand J(1), Keane M, Keane PE, Soubri√© P.

Author information: 
(1)Sanofi Recherche, Toulouse, France.

SR 141716 (1 and 3 mg/kg p.o.), a selective central (CB1) cannabinoid receptor
antagonist, selectively reduced feeding of a very highly palatable cane-sugar
mixture in marmosets. In contrast, standard primate pellet intake was not
modified at the lower dose, but was slightly increased (+29%;p < 0.01) by the
higher dose of SR 141716. These results are in agreement with the hypothesis that
endogenous cannabinoid systems are involved in the modulation of the appetitive
value of food.


PMID: 10065938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3477. Front Biosci. 1999 Mar 1;4:D212-5.

Comparison of ZP3 protein sequences among vertebrate species: to obtain a
consensus sequence for immunocontraception.

Zhu X(1), Naz RK.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Research, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical College
of Ohio, Toledo, OH 43614-5806, USA.

The deduced ZP3 amino acid (aa) sequences of 13 vertebrate species namely mouse, 
hamster, rabbit, pig, porcine, cow, dog, cat, human, bonnet, marmoset, carp, and 
frog were compared using the PILEUP and PRETTY alignment programs (GCG,
Wisconsin, USA). The published aa sequences obtained from 13 vertebrate species
indicated the overall evolutionarily conservation in the N-terminus, central
region, and C-terminus of the ZP3 polypeptide. More variations of ZP3 polypeptide
sequences were seen in the alignments of carp and frog from the 11 mammalian
species making the leader sequence more prominent. The canonical furin
proteolytic processing signal at the C-terminus was found in all the ZP3
polypeptide sequences except of carp and frog. In the central region, the ZP3
deduced aa sequences of all the 13 vertebrate species aligned well, and six
relatively conserved sequences were found. There are 11 conserved cysteine
residues in the central region across all species including carp and frog,
indicating that these residues have longer evolutionary history. The ZP3 aa
sequence similarities were examined using the GAP program (GCG). The highest aa
similarities are observed between the members of the same order within the class 
mammalia, and also (95.4%) between pig (ungulata) and rabbit (lagomorpha). The
deduced ZP3 aa sequences per se may not be enough to build a phylogenetic tree.

DOI: 10.2741/zhu 
PMID: 10051457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

