

3480. Tissue Cell. 1998 Dec;30(6):651-61.

Blockade of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular axis with a GnRH antagonist in 
the neonatal marmoset monkey: changes in Leydig cell ultrastructure.

Prince FP(1), Mann DR, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Natural Science, Plymouth State College, NH 03264, USA.

Little is known of the cell biology of Leydig cells during the neonatal
activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-testicular (HPT) axis. The current study
examined the effect of blockade of the HPT axis with a GnRH antagonist (antide)
on the neonatal population of Leydig cells in the new world primate, the common
marmoset. Three sets of twins, age 7 weeks, were studied: in each pair one twin
was used as a control, while the other received treatment with GnRH antagonist
from the day of birth to suppress pituitary gonadotrophin secretion. Leydig cells
of treated animals were dramatically different from those of controls. The cells 
were atrophic and exhibited very irregular nuclei. The organelles involved in
steroid synthesis were reduced to the extent to being barely evident. The smooth 
endoplasmic reticulum (SER) was greatly diminished in quantity and distribution. 
The usual form of the SER (anastomosing tubules) was not evident, but, instead,
the SER was relatively unbranched. Peroxisomes, organelles involved in transfer
of cholesterol to the mitochondria, were greatly reduced in number. Mitochondria 
were relatively sparse and exhibited a non-typical morphology, as tubular
elements of the cristae were rarely evident. Thus, the central apparatus in
steroid production, the SER, mitochondria and peroxisomes, was essentially shut
down in the GnRH-antagonist-treated animals. Storage of cholesterol, the
precursor of steroid biosynthesis, was also not in evidence, as lipid droplets
were extremely rare. Two prominent features of control in neonatal marmoset
Leydig cells, the membranofibrillar inclusion (MFI) and basal laminae, remain
prominent in the Leydig cells of treated animals. Evidence of apoptosis was not
observed. These results provide strong support that the gonadotrophic hormones
are the primary regulator of neonatal Leydig cell development in primates, and
also suggest cell regression, rather than apoptosis, being the mechanism of this 
inhibition.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(98)80084-0 
PMID: 10036790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3481. Arzneimittelforschung. 1999 Jan;49(1):13-21.

Effects of the new angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist KRH-594 on several
types of experimental hypertension.

Inada Y(1), Murakami M, Kaido K, Nakao K.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Laboratories, Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Nagano, Japan.

The antihypertensive effect of dipotassium (Z)-2-[[5-ethyl-3-[2'-(1H-
tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl-1,3,4-thiadiazoline-2-
ylidene]aminocarbonyl]-1-cyclopentenecarboxylate (CAS 169328-25-0, KRH-594), a
new angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist, was studied in several
experimental hypertensive models. The effects of KRH-594 on the circulating
reninangiotensin system and on renal function were also investigated. Oral
administration of KRH-594 (0.3 or 1 mg/kg) dose-dependently inhibited the
angiotensin II-induced pressor response in common marmosets. KRH-594 (1, 3, or 10
mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently exerted a long-lasting antihypertensive effect in
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and in 2-kidney 1-clip renal hypertensive 
rats (RHRs). Furthermore, repeated oral administration of KRH-594 (3 or 10
mg/kg/d) reduced blood pressure dose-dependently in SHRs, RHRs, and renal
hypertensive dogs without tachycardia and with no evidence of a rebound
phenomenon following drug withdrawal. On the other hand, in deoxycorticosterone
acetate salt rats and normotensive rats, KRH-594 (10 or 30 mg/kg p.o.) did not
have significant effects on systolic blood pressure. In SHRs, KRH-594 (3 or 10
mg/kg/d p.o. for 2 weeks) dose-dependently increased both plasma renin activity
and the plasma angiotensin I concentration, but had no effect on the urinary
excretion of sodium, potassium, and chloride or on creatinine clearance. These
results suggest that KRH-594 should be effective in patients with essential or
renal hypertension.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1300351 
PMID: 10028373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

