

3481. Arzneimittelforschung. 1999 Jan;49(1):13-21.

Effects of the new angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist KRH-594 on several
types of experimental hypertension.

Inada Y(1), Murakami M, Kaido K, Nakao K.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Laboratories, Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Nagano, Japan.

The antihypertensive effect of dipotassium (Z)-2-[[5-ethyl-3-[2'-(1H-
tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl-1,3,4-thiadiazoline-2-
ylidene]aminocarbonyl]-1-cyclopentenecarboxylate (CAS 169328-25-0, KRH-594), a
new angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist, was studied in several
experimental hypertensive models. The effects of KRH-594 on the circulating
reninangiotensin system and on renal function were also investigated. Oral
administration of KRH-594 (0.3 or 1 mg/kg) dose-dependently inhibited the
angiotensin II-induced pressor response in common marmosets. KRH-594 (1, 3, or 10
mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently exerted a long-lasting antihypertensive effect in
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and in 2-kidney 1-clip renal hypertensive 
rats (RHRs). Furthermore, repeated oral administration of KRH-594 (3 or 10
mg/kg/d) reduced blood pressure dose-dependently in SHRs, RHRs, and renal
hypertensive dogs without tachycardia and with no evidence of a rebound
phenomenon following drug withdrawal. On the other hand, in deoxycorticosterone
acetate salt rats and normotensive rats, KRH-594 (10 or 30 mg/kg p.o.) did not
have significant effects on systolic blood pressure. In SHRs, KRH-594 (3 or 10
mg/kg/d p.o. for 2 weeks) dose-dependently increased both plasma renin activity
and the plasma angiotensin I concentration, but had no effect on the urinary
excretion of sodium, potassium, and chloride or on creatinine clearance. These
results suggest that KRH-594 should be effective in patients with essential or
renal hypertension.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1300351 
PMID: 10028373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3482. Hum Reprod Update. 1998 Sep-Oct;4(5):634-46.

Expression of the oxytocin receptor in relation to steroid receptors in the
uterus of a primate model, the marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Bielefeld A, Kopp JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproduction, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

The dynamics of the receptors for oestrogen (ER), progesterone (PR) and oxytocin 
(OTR) in the marmoset uterus have been analysed throughout the entire cycle and
early pregnancy. Uteri obtained during the early, mid/late and late proliferative
phase, and the early, mid and late secretory phase and early pregnancy were
examined by immunohistochemistry (OTR, ER, PR) and autoradiography (OTR). A
massive upregulation of the ER in the cell nuclei of glandular epithelium and
stromal cells during the mid proliferative phase was succeeded by a declining
staining intensity and positively stained cell number in the secretory phase. PR 
immunoreactivity increased in the late proliferative phase and early secretory
phase, mainly within the cell nuclei, and then declined in both intensity and
cell number towards the mid to late secretory phase. Myometrium showed a similar 
staining pattern for the steroid receptors. OTR were expressed weakly in stroma
throughout the entire cycle, increasing slightly in the secretory phase.
Glandular epithelium showed positive staining only during the periovulatory
period. Myometrial OTR expression was weak during the proliferative phase,
increased towards the secretory phase, and was maximal in the late secretory
phase. Myometrial tissue adjacent to endometrium was most strongly stained. A
cyclic shift evidently occurred in the pattern of steroid receptors, perhaps
reflecting the steroid environment or the luteinizing hormone increase associated
with ovulation.

DOI: 10.1093/humupd/4.5.634 
PMID: 10027617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

