

3482. Hum Reprod Update. 1998 Sep-Oct;4(5):634-46.

Expression of the oxytocin receptor in relation to steroid receptors in the
uterus of a primate model, the marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Bielefeld A, Kopp JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproduction, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

The dynamics of the receptors for oestrogen (ER), progesterone (PR) and oxytocin 
(OTR) in the marmoset uterus have been analysed throughout the entire cycle and
early pregnancy. Uteri obtained during the early, mid/late and late proliferative
phase, and the early, mid and late secretory phase and early pregnancy were
examined by immunohistochemistry (OTR, ER, PR) and autoradiography (OTR). A
massive upregulation of the ER in the cell nuclei of glandular epithelium and
stromal cells during the mid proliferative phase was succeeded by a declining
staining intensity and positively stained cell number in the secretory phase. PR 
immunoreactivity increased in the late proliferative phase and early secretory
phase, mainly within the cell nuclei, and then declined in both intensity and
cell number towards the mid to late secretory phase. Myometrium showed a similar 
staining pattern for the steroid receptors. OTR were expressed weakly in stroma
throughout the entire cycle, increasing slightly in the secretory phase.
Glandular epithelium showed positive staining only during the periovulatory
period. Myometrial OTR expression was weak during the proliferative phase,
increased towards the secretory phase, and was maximal in the late secretory
phase. Myometrial tissue adjacent to endometrium was most strongly stained. A
cyclic shift evidently occurred in the pattern of steroid receptors, perhaps
reflecting the steroid environment or the luteinizing hormone increase associated
with ovulation.

DOI: 10.1093/humupd/4.5.634 
PMID: 10027617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3483. Brain Res. 1999 Jan 2;815(1):44-50.

Effect of selegiline on dopamine concentration in the striatum of a primate.

Kaseda S(1), Nomoto M, Iwata S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.
ksds@med1.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

Monoamine oxidase (MAO) has two subtypes, A and B, that have different
distributions between the rodent and the human. In the striatum, dopamine (DA) of
the rat seems to be metabolized by MAO A, and DA of the human is largely
deaminated by MAO B. MAO in the striatum of common marmosets is also type B.
Using in vivo microdialysis, we investigated the pharmacological activity of
selegiline, a selective irreversible inhibitor of MAO B, in the striatum of
marmosets. Intraperitoneal co-administration of selegiline (1 mg kg-1, i.p.) with
levodopa/carbidopa (10/2.5 mg kg-1, i.p.) did not significantly increase
extracellular concentration of DA in the striatum of common marmosets compared
with control animals receiving levodopa/carbidopa alone. Daily pretreatment with 
0.1 mg kg-1 (i.p.) selegiline for two weeks, however, dramatically increased
extracellular concentration of DA to about seven times that of control animals
treated with levodopa/carbidopa alone in marmosets. Such an increase in
extracellular concentrations of DA could not be observed in a similar study with 
Wistar rats. This study showed that chronic administration of a small dose of
selegiline caused a marked increase in extracellular DA concentration in the
striatum of primates, but not in the rodents.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(98)01089-0 
PMID: 9974121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

