

3484. J Immunol. 1999 Feb 15;162(4):2384-90.

Determinant spreading associated with demyelination in a nonhuman primate model
of multiple sclerosis.

McFarland HI(1), Lobito AA, Johnson MM, Nyswaner JT, Frank JA, Palardy GR,
Tresser N, Genain CP, Mueller JP, Matis LA, Lenardo MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Definition of the immune process that causes demyelination in multiple sclerosis 
is essential to determine the feasibility of Ag-directed immunotherapy. Using the
nonhuman primate, Callithrix jacchus jacchus (common marmoset), we show that
immunization with myelin basic protein and proteolipid protein determinants
results in clinical disease with significant demyelination. Demyelination was
associated with spreading to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)
determinants that generated anti-MOG serum Abs and Ig deposition in central
nervous system white matter lesions. These data associate intermolecular
"determinant spreading" with clinical autoimmune disease in primates and raise
important issues for the pathogenesis and treatment of multiple sclerosis.


PMID: 9973519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3485. Nat Med. 1999 Feb;5(2):170-5.

Identification of autoantibodies associated with myelin damage in multiple
sclerosis.

Genain CP(1), Cannella B, Hauser SL, Raine CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0435,
USA. claudeg@itsa.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nat Med. 1999 Feb;5(2):153-4.

The molecular mechanisms underlying myelin sheath destruction in multiple
sclerosis lesions remain unresolved. With immunogold-labeled peptides of myelin
antigens and high-resolution microscopy, techniques that can detect
antigen-specific antibodies in situ, we have identified autoantibodies specific
for the central nervous system myelin antigen myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein. These autoantibodies were specifically bound to disintegrating
myelin around axons in lesions of acute multiple sclerosis and the marmoset model
of allergic encephalomyelitis. These findings represent direct evidence that
autoantibodies against a specific myelin protein mediate target membrane damage
in central nervous system demyelinating disease.

DOI: 10.1038/5532 
PMID: 9930864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

