

3485. Nat Med. 1999 Feb;5(2):170-5.

Identification of autoantibodies associated with myelin damage in multiple
sclerosis.

Genain CP(1), Cannella B, Hauser SL, Raine CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0435,
USA. claudeg@itsa.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Nat Med. 1999 Feb;5(2):153-4.

The molecular mechanisms underlying myelin sheath destruction in multiple
sclerosis lesions remain unresolved. With immunogold-labeled peptides of myelin
antigens and high-resolution microscopy, techniques that can detect
antigen-specific antibodies in situ, we have identified autoantibodies specific
for the central nervous system myelin antigen myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein. These autoantibodies were specifically bound to disintegrating
myelin around axons in lesions of acute multiple sclerosis and the marmoset model
of allergic encephalomyelitis. These findings represent direct evidence that
autoantibodies against a specific myelin protein mediate target membrane damage
in central nervous system demyelinating disease.

DOI: 10.1038/5532 
PMID: 9930864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3486. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 30;855:160-4.

Behavioral and single chorda tympani taste fiber responses in the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus jacchus.

Danilova V(1), Hellekant G, Roberts T, Tinti JM, Nofre C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison 53706, USA. danilova@ahabs.wisc.edu

Gustatory responses of the common marmoset were studied using single fiber
recordings from chorda tympani (CT) nerve and two bottle preference (TBP) tests. 
Hierarchical cluster analysis of 43 fibers' response profiles revealed 3 major
clusters of fibers characterized by predominant sensitivity to sweeteners (S
cluster), bitter compounds (Q cluster) or acids (H cluster). NaCl as well as LiCl
did not stimulate CT taste fibers. The TBP tests showed relationship between a
compound's ability to stimulate the taste fibers and the animals' consumption.
Activity in the S cluster was associated with preference, while the activity in
the Q cluster was associated with rejection. Marmosets neither preferred nor
rejected sweeteners which did not stimulate any CT fibers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb10559.x 
PMID: 9929598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

