

3486. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 30;855:160-4.

Behavioral and single chorda tympani taste fiber responses in the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus jacchus.

Danilova V(1), Hellekant G, Roberts T, Tinti JM, Nofre C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Health and Biomedical Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison 53706, USA. danilova@ahabs.wisc.edu

Gustatory responses of the common marmoset were studied using single fiber
recordings from chorda tympani (CT) nerve and two bottle preference (TBP) tests. 
Hierarchical cluster analysis of 43 fibers' response profiles revealed 3 major
clusters of fibers characterized by predominant sensitivity to sweeteners (S
cluster), bitter compounds (Q cluster) or acids (H cluster). NaCl as well as LiCl
did not stimulate CT taste fibers. The TBP tests showed relationship between a
compound's ability to stimulate the taste fibers and the animals' consumption.
Activity in the S cluster was associated with preference, while the activity in
the Q cluster was associated with rejection. Marmosets neither preferred nor
rejected sweeteners which did not stimulate any CT fibers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb10559.x 
PMID: 9929598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3487. J Pharmacol Toxicol Methods. 1998 Jul;40(1):21-6.

A comparison of rectal and subcutaneous body temperature measurement in the
common marmoset.

Cilia J(1), Piper DC, Upton N, Hagan JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Research Department, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals PLC,
Essex, UK. Jackie Cilia-1@SBPHRD.com

Two methods of measuring body temperature were compared in common marmosets.
Subcutaneous temperatures were measured remotely via previously implanted
subcutaneous microchips (Plexx BV, IPTT-100) prior to measurement of rectal
temperature using a conventional rectal probe. Marmosets were treated with saline
or the brain penetrant, 5-HT1A/B/D receptor agonist SKF-99101H
(3-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-4-chloro-5-propoxyindole hemifumarate) (0.3-3 mg/kg
SC), which has previously been shown to induce hypothermia in guinea pigs. Body
temperature was sampled immediately before drug administration and at 30-min
intervals thereafter for a period of 2.5 h. SKF-99101H dose-dependently induced
hypothermia in the common marmoset and there was close agreement between rectal
and subcutaneous body temperatures, with an average difference in absolute body
temperature of 0.26+/-0.02 degrees C. The data show that subcutaneously implanted
microchips provide a simple, reliable measure of body temperature in common
marmosets which is sensitive to pharmacological intervention, minimizes handling 
induced stress, and is minimally invasive.

DOI: 10.1016/s1056-8719(98)00030-6 
PMID: 9920530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

