

3487. J Pharmacol Toxicol Methods. 1998 Jul;40(1):21-6.

A comparison of rectal and subcutaneous body temperature measurement in the
common marmoset.

Cilia J(1), Piper DC, Upton N, Hagan JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Research Department, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals PLC,
Essex, UK. Jackie Cilia-1@SBPHRD.com

Two methods of measuring body temperature were compared in common marmosets.
Subcutaneous temperatures were measured remotely via previously implanted
subcutaneous microchips (Plexx BV, IPTT-100) prior to measurement of rectal
temperature using a conventional rectal probe. Marmosets were treated with saline
or the brain penetrant, 5-HT1A/B/D receptor agonist SKF-99101H
(3-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-4-chloro-5-propoxyindole hemifumarate) (0.3-3 mg/kg
SC), which has previously been shown to induce hypothermia in guinea pigs. Body
temperature was sampled immediately before drug administration and at 30-min
intervals thereafter for a period of 2.5 h. SKF-99101H dose-dependently induced
hypothermia in the common marmoset and there was close agreement between rectal
and subcutaneous body temperatures, with an average difference in absolute body
temperature of 0.26+/-0.02 degrees C. The data show that subcutaneously implanted
microchips provide a simple, reliable measure of body temperature in common
marmosets which is sensitive to pharmacological intervention, minimizes handling 
induced stress, and is minimally invasive.

DOI: 10.1016/s1056-8719(98)00030-6 
PMID: 9920530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3488. Biol Reprod. 1999 Feb;60(2):445-53.

Differential splicing and expression of the relaxin-like factor gene in
reproductive tissues of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Zarreh-Hoshyari-Khah MR(1), Einspanier A, Ivell R.

Author information: 
(1)IHF Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg, 22529
Hamburg, Germany.

The relaxin-like factor (RLF) is a novel member of the
insulin/relaxin/insulin-like growth factor family of growth factors and hormones 
that is expressed predominantly in the reproductive system, with highest
expression in the Leydig cells of the testis. Using a combination of molecular
and immunological techniques, we have characterized the structure and expression 
of the RLF gene from a primate model, the marmoset monkey, with the intention of 
comparing this with recent results on the closely related hormone relaxin in this
species. As in other species, including the human, RLF gene products can be
detected maximally in Leydig cells and in the follicular theca interna cells and 
corpora lutea of the ovary. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction
analysis confirmed this expression and showed that in the corpus luteum, testis, 
and epididymis, a second, alternative RLF gene transcript was present that is
expressed at low levels and that appears to be derived by differential splicing
of a novel exon. Analysis of genomic DNA from the marmoset showed that in this
species, the single-copy gene contains a longer intronic region separating the
two exons described for the human. Alternative splicing introduces a novel exon
1A between exons 1 and 2, which leads to an altered open reading frame, with a
new stop codon, such that if translated, the novel transcript will encode a
truncated polypeptide comprising a C-terminally extended B-domain.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod60.2.445 
PMID: 9916013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

