

3491. Neuropathol Appl Neurobiol. 1998 Dec;24(6):476-86.

Prion protein immunohistochemical staining in the brains of monkeys with
transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.

Baker HF(1), Ridley RM, Wells GA, Ironside JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Central Veterinary Laboratory, New Haw, UK.

Prion protein (PrP) immunohistochemical staining of the brains of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with experimental transmissible spongiform
encephalopathy is described. The monkeys (n = 17) had been injected,
intracerebrally, 17-49 months previously with homogenates of brain tissue taken
post mortem from a cow with BSE (n = 2 monkeys), a sheep with natural scrapie (n 
= 2 monkeys), human cases of growth hormone related Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease
(CJD) (n = 2 monkeys), sporadic CJD (n = 5 monkeys), or
Gerstmann-Str√§ussler-Scheinker disease (GSS) (n = 4 monkeys), or from monkeys
with spongiform encephalopathy resulting from injection with brain tissue from
these last two cases (n = 1 monkey from each case). Only diffuse PrP-staining was
seen in monkeys injected with CJD-material whereas more aggregated deposits of
PrP were seen in monkeys injected with BSE-, scrapie--and GSS-brain tissue. There
were no patterns of staining specific to the brains injected with BSE-material
that could be used to identify the origin of that inoculum. BSE--and
scrapie-injected monkey brains could be distinguished from each other because in 
BSE-injected monkey brain the spongiform vacuolation was largely confined to
subcortical structures whereas in scrapie-injected monkey brain the spongiform
vacuolation was also prominent in the neocortex. The patterns of PrP deposition
differed markedly between those seen in monkey brains injected with BSE-material 
or CJD-material, but the patterns of PrP staining seen in monkey brains injected 
with BSE-material were also seen in monkey brains injected with scrapie--or
GSS-material. Overall there was a correlation between the length of the
incubation period and the amount of aggregated PrP-staining, but no correlation
between the neuropathological picture and the clinical presentation of
neurological signs.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2990.1998.00142.x 
PMID: 9888158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3492. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1998;69(6):372-6.

Polygyny and infanticide in common marmosets in a fragment of the Atlantic forest
of Brazil.

Roda SA(1), Pontes AR.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, UFPE, Pernambuco, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1159/000021655 
PMID: 9885340  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

