

3493. J Hum Hypertens. 1998 Dec;12(12):839-44.

Modulation of nitric oxide improves cyclosporin A-induced hypertension in rats
and primates.

Bartholomeusz B(1), Hardy KJ, Nelson AS, Phillips PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Repatriation Medical Centre, Heidelberg, Victoria,
Australia.

Cyclosporin-induced hypertension is a major complication of immunosuppression in 
transplant recipients but its pathophysiology is only partly understood.
Cyclosporin reduces endothelium-dependent vasodilation and increases endothelin
synthesis and release, which may contribute to this hypertension. We examined the
effects of: (1) nitric oxide enhancement with L-arginine administration and
antagonism with N-nitro-L-arginine; and (2) chronic endothelin receptor blockade 
with the non-peptide endothelin receptor antagonist, bosentan, in two animal
models of cyclosporin-induced hypertension. Cyclosporin, administered daily to
female Wistar rats (10 mg/kg per day for 30 days, s.c.) and to marmosets (30
mg/kg per day for 20 days, p.o.) significantly elevated tail cuff systolic blood 
pressure (BP). L-arginine (250 mg/kg, in saline, i.p.), N-nitro-L-arginine (25
mg/kg, in saline, i.p.), bosentan (100 mg/kg, in arabic gum, p.o.) or vehicle
were given daily to the rats during the last week of cyclosporin treatment.
Marmosets received L-arginine (300 mg/kg, in water, p.o.), bosentan (100
mg/kg/day in arabic gum, p.o.) or vehicle for the last 7 days of cyclosporin
treatment. L-arginine, but not saline alone significantly lowered BP in the
cyclosporin-hypertensive rats from 129 +/- 2 mm Hg to 122 +/- 3 mm Hg (P < 0.05),
and cyclosporin-hypertensive marmosets from 156 +/- 2 mm Hg to 139 +/- 4 mm Hg (P
< 0.01). NOLA significantly increased systolic BP in cyclosporin-treated (from
133 +/- 2 mm Hg at week 3 to 142 +/- 3 mm Hg, P < 0.05) and control rats (from
124.0 +/- 2 mm Hg to 134 +/- 2 mm Hg, P < 0.05) indicating that nitric oxide
synthesis in cyclosporin-hypertensive rats could be further antagonised.
Bosentan, but not arabic gum alone, also lowered BP in the
cyclosporin-hypertensive rats from 134 +/- 1 mm Hg to 122 +/- 3 mm Hg (P < 0.01),
and cyclosporin-hypertensive marmosets from 156 +/- 2 mm Hg to 139 +/- 4 mm Hg (P
< 0.01). These results support the roles of both increased endothelin synthesis
and decreased nitric oxide activity in the pathogenesis of cyclosporin A-induced 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1000709 
PMID: 9883706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3494. J Virol. 1999 Feb;73(2):1555-64.

X-Linked agammaglobulinemia patients are not infected with Epstein-Barr virus:
implications for the biology of the virus.

Faulkner GC(1), Burrows SR, Khanna R, Moss DJ, Bird AG, Crawford DH.

Author information: 
(1)Herpesvirus Group, Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Edinburgh
Medical School, Edinburgh EH8 9AG, United Kingdom.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infects both B lymphocytes and squamous epithelial cells
in vitro, but the cell type(s) required to establish primary and persistent
infection in vivo has not been definitively elucidated. The aim of this study was
to investigate a group of individuals who lack mature B lymphocytes due to the
rare heritable disorder X-linked agammaglobulinemia in order to determine the
role of the B cell in the infection process. The results show that none of these 
individuals harbored EBV in their blood or throat washings. Furthermore, no
EBV-specific memory cytotoxic T lymphocytes were found, suggesting that they had 
not undergone infection in the past. In contrast, 50% of individuals were found
to carry human herpesvirus 6, showing that they are infectible by another
lymphotropic herpesvirus. These results add weight to the theory that B
lymphocytes, and not oropharyngeal epithelial cells, may be required for primary 
infection with EBV.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.73.2.1555-1564.1999 
PMCID: PMC103980
PMID: 9882361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

