

3494. J Virol. 1999 Feb;73(2):1555-64.

X-Linked agammaglobulinemia patients are not infected with Epstein-Barr virus:
implications for the biology of the virus.

Faulkner GC(1), Burrows SR, Khanna R, Moss DJ, Bird AG, Crawford DH.

Author information: 
(1)Herpesvirus Group, Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Edinburgh
Medical School, Edinburgh EH8 9AG, United Kingdom.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infects both B lymphocytes and squamous epithelial cells
in vitro, but the cell type(s) required to establish primary and persistent
infection in vivo has not been definitively elucidated. The aim of this study was
to investigate a group of individuals who lack mature B lymphocytes due to the
rare heritable disorder X-linked agammaglobulinemia in order to determine the
role of the B cell in the infection process. The results show that none of these 
individuals harbored EBV in their blood or throat washings. Furthermore, no
EBV-specific memory cytotoxic T lymphocytes were found, suggesting that they had 
not undergone infection in the past. In contrast, 50% of individuals were found
to carry human herpesvirus 6, showing that they are infectible by another
lymphotropic herpesvirus. These results add weight to the theory that B
lymphocytes, and not oropharyngeal epithelial cells, may be required for primary 
infection with EBV.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.73.2.1555-1564.1999 
PMCID: PMC103980
PMID: 9882361  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3495. Mamm Genome. 1998 Dec;9(12):1042-8.

Structural and evolutionary characterization of the human sorbitol dehydrogenase 
gene duplication.

Carr IM(1), Whitehouse A, Coletta PL, Markham AF.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Unit, University of Leeds, Clinical Sciences Building, St
James's University Hospital, Leeds LS9 7TF, United Kingdom.

We have established that two very closely homologous human sorbitol dehydrogenase
sequences lie within 0.5 Mb on Chromosome 15. We have defined the relative
orientation of SORD1 and SORD2 genes with respect to both the centromere and each
other and established their exact chromosome location. In addition, we have
identified polymorphic variants in the locus, which may be useful, in association
studies to predict predisposition to clinical problems resulting from decreased
conversion of cellular sorbitol to fructose. To define the evolutionary
relationship of these human genes, SORD from the marmoset was also sequenced for 
comparison. Marmoset SORD, which appears to be a single gene in this species,
shows significantly less homology with either SORD1 or SORD2 than they do with
each other, suggesting that the human homologs represent a recent gene
duplication event. A hypothesis is presented to explain the retention of the
redundant SORD2 sequence in the human genome.

DOI: 10.1007/s003359900922 
PMID: 9880675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

