

3497. J Reprod Fertil. 1998 Sep;114(1):163-8.

Ubiquitin and apoptosis in the corpus luteum of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Young FM(1), Illingworth PJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The polypeptide ubiquitin covalently binds to cytoplasmic proteins and marks them
for proteolytic degradation. Ubiquitin is upregulated during apoptosis in some
systems. Apoptosis increases during luteolysis but it is not known whether
ubiquitin is expressed in regressing corpora lutea. Marmoset ovaries were removed
on day 10 of the luteal phase from animals that had received either no treatment,
treatment with the PGF2 alpha analogue cloprostenol 24 h earlier, or treatment
with the GnRH antagonist antarelix for either 24 or 48 h before ovary collection.
Ubiquitin was localized on ovarian sections by immunocytochemistry, and
oligonucleosome formation characteristic of apoptosis was examined in isolated
corpora lutea by electrophoresis of extracted [32P]DNA. Oligonucleosome formation
was low in midluteal corpora lutea on day 10 but increased after induced luteal
regression with PGF2 alpha and GnRH antagonist. Nuclear ubiquitin
immunoreactivity was found in 1.66 +/- 0.66 steroidogenic cells and cytoplasmic
staining was found in 0.4 +/- 0.3 steroidogenic cells (per x 40 field of view) in
midluteal phase corpora lutea on day 10. Luteolytic induction with PGF2 alpha
significantly increased the number of cells exhibiting cytoplasmic
immunoreactivity to 12.24 +/- 1.6 (P < 0.05). Ubiquitin immunoreactivity was not 
observed after GnRH-induced luteal regression. Apoptotic oligonucleosome
formation was found after induced luteal regression with both PGF2 alpha and GnRH
antagonist, but ubiquitin upregulation only occurred after PGF2 alpha-induced
regression. These results indicate that ubiquitin expression is not specific for 
luteolysis and is not an indicator of luteal apoptosis, but that the polypeptide 
does play a role in luteal cellular responses to PGF2 alpha.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1140163 
PMID: 9875169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3498. J Neurosci Methods. 1998 Dec 1;85(2):201-9.

Pharmacological characterisation of dopamine overflow in the striatum of the
normal and MPTP-treated common marmoset, studied in vivo using fast cyclic
voltammetry, nomifensine and sulpiride.

Earl CD(1), Sautter J, Xie J, Kruk ZL, Kupsch A, Oertel WH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology, University of Munich, Germany.

The in vivo measurement of electrically-evoked dopamine overflow was measured for
the first time in the striatum of control and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets using fast 
cyclic voltammetry at untreated carbon-fibre microelectrodes, (7 microm, o.d.).
The identity of dopamine was confirmed using electrochemical, pharmacological and
histological criteria and complied with rat data from earlier studies. Dopamine
overflow depended on the intensity, number of pulses, and frequency of the
applied stimuli. Maximum dopamine overflow occurred using 1.0-2.0 mA, 200 micros 
pulse width, 150-200 pulses at 80-120 Hz stimulation of the medial forebrain
bundle. Evoked dopamine overflow in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated marmosets showed a similar
electrochemical and pharmacological profile compared to healthy controls, albeit 
the concentration detected was significantly reduced. The catecholamine uptake
blocker, nomifensine, significantly increased the dopamine signal in control
marmosets. However, in contrast, nomifensine had no significant effect on evoked 
dopamine overflow in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated
marmosets. Apart from demonstrating that fast cyclic voltammetry with electrical 
stimulation can be reliably used to monitor dopamine overflow within the primate 
brain, our results describe for the first time the technical prerequisites for
the fast cyclic voltammetric technique in the non-human primate brain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0270(98)00134-4 
PMID: 9874156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

