

3498. J Neurosci Methods. 1998 Dec 1;85(2):201-9.

Pharmacological characterisation of dopamine overflow in the striatum of the
normal and MPTP-treated common marmoset, studied in vivo using fast cyclic
voltammetry, nomifensine and sulpiride.

Earl CD(1), Sautter J, Xie J, Kruk ZL, Kupsch A, Oertel WH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology, University of Munich, Germany.

The in vivo measurement of electrically-evoked dopamine overflow was measured for
the first time in the striatum of control and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets using fast 
cyclic voltammetry at untreated carbon-fibre microelectrodes, (7 microm, o.d.).
The identity of dopamine was confirmed using electrochemical, pharmacological and
histological criteria and complied with rat data from earlier studies. Dopamine
overflow depended on the intensity, number of pulses, and frequency of the
applied stimuli. Maximum dopamine overflow occurred using 1.0-2.0 mA, 200 micros 
pulse width, 150-200 pulses at 80-120 Hz stimulation of the medial forebrain
bundle. Evoked dopamine overflow in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated marmosets showed a similar
electrochemical and pharmacological profile compared to healthy controls, albeit 
the concentration detected was significantly reduced. The catecholamine uptake
blocker, nomifensine, significantly increased the dopamine signal in control
marmosets. However, in contrast, nomifensine had no significant effect on evoked 
dopamine overflow in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated
marmosets. Apart from demonstrating that fast cyclic voltammetry with electrical 
stimulation can be reliably used to monitor dopamine overflow within the primate 
brain, our results describe for the first time the technical prerequisites for
the fast cyclic voltammetric technique in the non-human primate brain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0270(98)00134-4 
PMID: 9874156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3499. Nutr Neurosci. 1999;2(6):375-84. doi: 10.1080/1028415X.1999.11747292.

Iodine Deficiency and the Brain.

Hetzel BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)a International Council for Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders (ICCIDD) , 
8th Floor, Samuel Way Building, Women's and Children's Hospital , 72 King William
Road, North Adelaide 5006 , Australia.

The effects of iodine deficiency on growth and development are known as the
iodine deficiency disorders (IDDs). Most common is goitre at all ages, but most
significant are the effects on brain development during pregnancy. The major
effect of iodine deficiency is the clinical syndrome of endemic cretinism
characterised in its fully developed form by mental defect, deaf mutism and
spastic diplegia. This condition can be totally prevented by correction of the
iodine deficiency before pregnancy. There is considerable variation in the degree
of brain damage that occurs due to iodine deficiency in a given population. A
meta-analysis of studies comparing iodine deficient populations with appropriate 
control groups reveals a mean loss of 13.5 IQ points. Experimental studies in the
sheep, rat and marmoset confirm the effect of iodine deficiency on foetal brain
development. They show that the effect is due to a slowing of neuroblast
multiplication and differentiation and a consequent effect on neuroglial
development. Iodine deficiency is now recognised as the most common cause of
preventable brain damage in the world today. In 1990, the elimination of iodine
deficiency as a cause of brain damage by the year 2000 was accepted by the UN
system and substantial progress has been made since 1990 with the mass correction
of iodine deficiency through Universal Salt Iodisation (USI).

DOI: 10.1080/1028415X.1999.11747292 
PMID: 27416050 

