

3499. Nutr Neurosci. 1999;2(6):375-84. doi: 10.1080/1028415X.1999.11747292.

Iodine Deficiency and the Brain.

Hetzel BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)a International Council for Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders (ICCIDD) , 
8th Floor, Samuel Way Building, Women's and Children's Hospital , 72 King William
Road, North Adelaide 5006 , Australia.

The effects of iodine deficiency on growth and development are known as the
iodine deficiency disorders (IDDs). Most common is goitre at all ages, but most
significant are the effects on brain development during pregnancy. The major
effect of iodine deficiency is the clinical syndrome of endemic cretinism
characterised in its fully developed form by mental defect, deaf mutism and
spastic diplegia. This condition can be totally prevented by correction of the
iodine deficiency before pregnancy. There is considerable variation in the degree
of brain damage that occurs due to iodine deficiency in a given population. A
meta-analysis of studies comparing iodine deficient populations with appropriate 
control groups reveals a mean loss of 13.5 IQ points. Experimental studies in the
sheep, rat and marmoset confirm the effect of iodine deficiency on foetal brain
development. They show that the effect is due to a slowing of neuroblast
multiplication and differentiation and a consequent effect on neuroglial
development. Iodine deficiency is now recognised as the most common cause of
preventable brain damage in the world today. In 1990, the elimination of iodine
deficiency as a cause of brain damage by the year 2000 was accepted by the UN
system and substantial progress has been made since 1990 with the mass correction
of iodine deficiency through Universal Salt Iodisation (USI).

DOI: 10.1080/1028415X.1999.11747292 
PMID: 27416050 


3500. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 1998 Jun 2;8(11):1359-64.

The synthesis of novel matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors employing the
Ireland-Claisen rearrangement.

Pratt LM(1), Beckett RP, Bellamy CL, Corkill DJ, Cossins J, Courtney PF, Davies
SJ, Davidson AH, Drummond AH, Helfrich K, Lewis CN, Mangan M, Martin FM, Miller
K, Nayee P, Ricketts ML, Thomas W, Todd RS, Whittaker M.

Author information: 
(1)British Biotech Pharmaceuticals Limited, Cowley, Oxford.

Matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors of general formula (1) were synthesised by a 
route involving an Ireland-Claisen rearrangement which enables systematic
modification of the substituent alpha to the hydroxamic acid. An analogue (12c)
possessing an alpha-cyclopentyl group is a potent broad spectrum inhibitor that
displays high and sustained blood levels following oral dosing in both the rat
and marmoset ex-vivo bioassays. This compound and analogues are also potent
inhibitors of TNF alpha release.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-894x(98)00218-2 
PMID: 9871766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

