

3503. Neuropsychologia. 1998 Dec;36(12):1265-73.

Lateralized use of the mouth in production of vocalizations by marmosets.

Hook-Costigan MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Memphis, TN 38152, USA.
mhkcstgn@msuv1.memphis.edu

We have found that the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, displays a larger
left hemimouth during production of fear expressions, with or without
vocalization, and a larger right hemimouth when producing a social contact call. 
Thus, marmosets have right hemisphere specialization for the production of
negative emotional expressions and vocalizations and left hemisphere
specialization for the production of social contact communication. These
hemispheric specializations for social communication in marmosets are the same as
those found in humans for speech production and for the control of emotional
expressions. We suggest that hemispheric specializations for communication in
humans may well have precursors in primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1016/s0028-3932(98)00037-2 
PMID: 9863680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3504. Scand J Rheumatol. 1998;27(6):446-53.

In vitro synthesis and characterization of a cartilaginous meniscus grown from
isolated temporomandibular chondroprogenitor cells.

Girdler NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Newcastle Dental School & Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Internal derangement of the temporomandibularjoint can lead to perforation of the
intra-articular meniscus and osteoarthritic degeneration. Current methods of
repairing damaged menisci are limited by lack of biological compatibility of
graft materials. This project aimed to synthesise and characterise a primate
cartilaginous meniscus in vitro from harvested mandibular chondroprogenitor
cells. Isolated cells from the mandibular cartilage of 12 young adult marmosets, 
aged 9-12 months, were grown in monolayer culture. After 21 days confluent
colonies were resuspended and dispersed into a unpolymerised solution of type I
collagen and fibrinogen. The resultant cell suspension was infiltrated into a
resorbable type I collagen sponge carrier and allowed to polymerise. Aliquots of 
the cell-infiltrated sponge were maintained in organ culture for a further 14
days. Cultures were characterised using histochemical and immunocytochemical
localisation of collagen and proteoglycan species. Two-thirds of cells in
confluent 21-day monolayers expressed cartilage-specific type II collagen and
chondroitin-4-sulphate. After 35 days organ cultures had formed a viable,
organised, three-dimensional tissue mass consisting of mature chondrocytic cells 
interspersed in a dense cartilaginous matrix. The cartilaginous tissue generated 
in vitro may have potential application in the repair or replacement of damaged
menisci in vivo.

DOI: 10.1080/030097498442280 
PMID: 9855216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

