

3504. Scand J Rheumatol. 1998;27(6):446-53.

In vitro synthesis and characterization of a cartilaginous meniscus grown from
isolated temporomandibular chondroprogenitor cells.

Girdler NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Newcastle Dental School & Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Internal derangement of the temporomandibularjoint can lead to perforation of the
intra-articular meniscus and osteoarthritic degeneration. Current methods of
repairing damaged menisci are limited by lack of biological compatibility of
graft materials. This project aimed to synthesise and characterise a primate
cartilaginous meniscus in vitro from harvested mandibular chondroprogenitor
cells. Isolated cells from the mandibular cartilage of 12 young adult marmosets, 
aged 9-12 months, were grown in monolayer culture. After 21 days confluent
colonies were resuspended and dispersed into a unpolymerised solution of type I
collagen and fibrinogen. The resultant cell suspension was infiltrated into a
resorbable type I collagen sponge carrier and allowed to polymerise. Aliquots of 
the cell-infiltrated sponge were maintained in organ culture for a further 14
days. Cultures were characterised using histochemical and immunocytochemical
localisation of collagen and proteoglycan species. Two-thirds of cells in
confluent 21-day monolayers expressed cartilage-specific type II collagen and
chondroitin-4-sulphate. After 35 days organ cultures had formed a viable,
organised, three-dimensional tissue mass consisting of mature chondrocytic cells 
interspersed in a dense cartilaginous matrix. The cartilaginous tissue generated 
in vitro may have potential application in the repair or replacement of damaged
menisci in vivo.

DOI: 10.1080/030097498442280 
PMID: 9855216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3505. J Comp Neurol. 1998 Dec 21;402(3):372-84.

Species differences in the expression and distribution of the neuropeptide Y Y1, 
Y2, Y4, and Y5 receptors in rodents, guinea pig, and primates brains.

Dumont Y(1), Jacques D, Bouchard P, Quirion R.

Author information: 
(1)Douglas Hospital Research Center, McGill University, Verdun, QC, Canada.

The respective distribution of neuropeptide Y Y1, Y2, Y4, and Y5 receptor
subtypes was investigated in rodents (rat and mouse), guinea pig, and primates
(marmoset and vervet monkeys and human) brains, representing three orders of
mammals. [125I] [Leu31,Pro34]PYY (total Y1-like; Y1, Y4, and Y5) and
[125I]PYY3-36 (total Y2-like; Y2 and possibly Y5) binding sites were discretely
but similarly distributed in the rat and mouse brain, each having its unique
pattern. In contrast, surprisingly low levels of [125I]PYY3-36 binding sites were
found in the guinea pig brain including in the hippocampal formation.
[125I][Leu31,Pro34]PYY/BIBP3226-insensitive binding sites (Y5-like) were found in
different areas of the rat and guinea pig brains. The primate brains also
revealed a different distribution binding profile for these various NPY receptor 
subtypes. Although the human and vervet brains contained very low amounts of
[125I][Leu31,Pro34]PYY sites (Y1-like) in most brain regions, except for the
dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, the marmoset brain contains significant amounts
of both [125I][Leu31,Pro34]PYY (Y1-like) and [125I]PYY3-36 (Y2-like) binding
sites. Additionally, [125I][Leu31,Pro34]PYY/BIBP3226-insensitive binding sites
were not clearly detected in the vervet and human brains. On the other hand,
Y5-like binding sites were observed in few regions of the marmoset brain.
Finally, [125I]hPP (Y4/Y5-like) were very discretely distributed in the rat
brain, being concentrated in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and 
the interpeduncular nucleus. The marmoset brain is apparently not enriched with
specific [125I]hPP sites. Taken together, these data show that significant
species differences exist in the level of expression and distribution of various 
NPY receptor subtypes in the mammalian brain.


PMID: 9853905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

