

3506. Zentralbl Veterinarmed B. 1998 Nov;45(9):561-6.

Properties of serological group B streptococci of dog, cat and monkey origin.

Lämmler C(1), Abdulmawjood A, Weiss R.

Author information: 
(1)Bakteriologie und Immunologie der Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen,
Frankfurter, Germany.

This study was designed to identify and characterize further Streptococcus
agalactiae isolated during routine diagnostics from three diseased dogs and a
cat, as well as from the inner organs of a monkey which died on a sepsis with
beta-haemolytic streptococci. The cultures could be identified as streptococci of
serological group B by cultural, biochemical and serological properties and by
restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of polymerase chain reaction
(PCR)-amplified 16S ribosomal DNA. A further characterization of the isolates by 
serotyping and by determination of antibiotic resistances revealed a close
relationship of these isolates to the human biotype of this species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0450.1998.tb00827.x 
PMID: 9852771  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3507. Chem Biol Interact. 1998 Oct 2;115(3):167-74.

Growth inhibitory factor and zinc affect neural cell cultures in a tissue
specific manner.

Bruinink A(1), Faller P, Sidler C, Bogumil R, Vasák M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Schwerzenbach.
bruinink@biocomp.mat.ethz.ch

Deficiency of neuronal growth inhibitory factor (GIF) and abnormalities in zinc
homeostasis have been suggested to play a role in the neuropathogenesis of
Alzheimer's disease. We report here that embryonic chick cerebral cell cultures
zinc and copper containing GIF in the presence of marmoset hippocampal extract
reduces significantly and concentration dependently mitochondrial succinate
dehydrogenase activity (MTT) and cell mass. In contrast, no indications could be 
found that GIF affected neural retina cell cultures. Our results suggest that the
observed effects of GIF are not elicited by zinc.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-2797(98)00062-3 
PMID: 9851288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

