

3507. Chem Biol Interact. 1998 Oct 2;115(3):167-74.

Growth inhibitory factor and zinc affect neural cell cultures in a tissue
specific manner.

Bruinink A(1), Faller P, Sidler C, Bogumil R, Vas√°k M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, Schwerzenbach.
bruinink@biocomp.mat.ethz.ch

Deficiency of neuronal growth inhibitory factor (GIF) and abnormalities in zinc
homeostasis have been suggested to play a role in the neuropathogenesis of
Alzheimer's disease. We report here that embryonic chick cerebral cell cultures
zinc and copper containing GIF in the presence of marmoset hippocampal extract
reduces significantly and concentration dependently mitochondrial succinate
dehydrogenase activity (MTT) and cell mass. In contrast, no indications could be 
found that GIF affected neural retina cell cultures. Our results suggest that the
observed effects of GIF are not elicited by zinc.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-2797(98)00062-3 
PMID: 9851288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3508. J Mol Evol. 1998 Dec;47(6):663-9.

Identification of evolutionarily invariant sequences in the protein C gene
promoter.

Spek CA(1), Bertina RM, Reitsma PH.

Author information: 
(1)Hemostasis and Thrombosis Research Center, Department of Hematology,
University Hospital, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Recent studies on human protein C gene expression have revealed the presence of
three transcription factor binding sites in close proximity to the transcription 
start site. Binding sites for the liver-enriched hepatocyte nuclear factors 1 and
3 (HNF-1 and HNF-3, respectively) are located immediately upstream of the
transcription start site, whereas just downstream of the start site a presently
unidentified transcription factor may bind. To identify other candidate
transcription factor binding sites in the protein C promoter, we studied the
promoter sequence identity in a number of evolutionarily close and more distant
species: Gorilla gorilla, Pongo pygmaeus, Pan troglodytes, Homo sapiens, Cebus
apella, Macaca mulatta, Callithrix jacchus, Papio hamadryas, Macaca fascicularis,
and Rattus norvegicus. This analysis showed that a high degree of identity (78%) 
exists among the different primates. Comparison of the primate consensus sequence
with the Rattus norvegicus protein C promoter sequence revealed the presence of
seven identical regions (I to VII). Two of these regions overlap with established
regulatory sequences for HNF-3 and HNF-1 (region VI) and for PCE-1 (region VII), 
respectively. The functional importance and the transcription factors that may
bind to the other five identical regions are now to be determined.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00006424 
PMID: 9847407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

