

3510. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(4):333-40.

Activity budget of Geoffroy's marmoset (Callithrix geoffroyi) in an Atlantic
forest in southeastern Brazil.

Passamani M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ecology, Conservation and Wildlife Management, Instituto de Ciências
Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
pasamani@npd.vfes.br

This report describes the activity budget of a group of Callithrix geoffroyi in a
patch of Atlantic forest on the Brazilian coast, between February 1993 and
January 1994, using the scan sampling methods. On average, the group rested for
29% of the daylight hours, fed for 21%, moved for 20%, and foraging and gouging
occupied 14% and 13% of this period, respectively. A greater proportion of time
was spent resting during the wet seasons (32.1%) than the dry seasons (17.8%),
but the reverse observed for time spent foraging (9.7% and 20.6% of the group's
daylight hours during wet and dry seasons, respectively). The time allocated to
feeding was greater in the first hours of the day. Gum consumption showed two
peaks, a larger one in the early morning and a minor one in the afternoon. Animal
prey foraging occurred throughout the day, but was more intense during the
hottest hours. The increase in foraging and decrease in resting during the dry
season was related to a decrease in the availability of insects.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:4<333::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-7 
PMID: 9839906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3511. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(4):265-84.

Behavioral discrimination between circumgenital odor from peri-ovulatory dominant
and anovulatory female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Smith TE(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska, Omaha, USA.
Tessa_Smith@wda.disney.com

Social peer groups of callitrichid monkeys [marmosets and tamarins] exhibit
intrasexual dominance hierarchies in captivity. This laboratory study employed
two-choice behavioral discrimination bioassys to test the hypothesis that scent
from female common marmosets contains chemical cues that permit discrimination
between dominant females in the periovulatory versus luteal phase of the ovarian 
cycle and females holding dominant versus subordinate status. When scent from
only dominant females was presented, marmosets directed significantly greater
amounts of investigatory behavior toward peri-ovulatory scent versus scent
collected during the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle. Animals of both sexes
demonstrated significant discriminatory behavior between scent deposited by
dominant versus subordinate females, but only when the dominant female was in the
peri-ovulatory phase of the ovarian cycle. Test animals directed equal amounts of
investigative behavior toward scent from luteal-phase dominant females and
subordinate females. Female test subjects deposited significantly more scent
marks over presented scents than did male subjects, particularly when the scent
had been donated by a peri-ovulatory female. Chemical odors specific to the
periovulatory and luteal phases of the ovarian cycle may play a role in mediating
behavioral interactions among marmosets.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:4<265::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-D 
PMID: 9839902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

