

3514. Comp Biochem Physiol C Pharmacol Toxicol Endocrinol. 1998 Jun;119(3):261-74.

Adaptations to subordinate status in female marmoset monkeys.

Abbott DH(1), Saltzman W, Schultz-Darken NJ, Tannenbaum PL.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, Madison 53715-1299, USA.
abbott@primate.wisc.edu

In singular cooperatively breeding mammals, social status is a key determinant of
female reproductive success. Usually only one dominant female breeds in a social 
group. In the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a cooperatively breeding
primate, adaptations to nonbreeding subordinate status appear to parallel those
found in social insect societies which demonstrate similar skew to the marmoset
in female reproductive success. Female marmosets exhibit rank-related polyethism 
in behavior, reproductive neuroendocrinology and non-reproductive physiology, and
subordinates participate in alloparental care and territory defense. Olfactory,
visual and behavioral cues from dominant female marmosets provide important
proximate cues regulating ovarian inhibition in female subordinates.
Cooperatively breeding marmosets, therefore, appear to have developed specific
neural and neuroendocrine adaptations to subordinate social status analogous to
those found in social insects such as the lower wasps, bees and termites. Such
parallel developments probably reflect the outcome of repeated convergent
evolutionary attempts at adapting to environmental conditions not readily
conducive to dispersal and independent breeding.

DOI: 10.1016/s0742-8413(98)00015-2 
PMID: 9826999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3515. Tissue Antigens. 1998 Oct;52(4):393-6.

A human monoclonal antibody against HLA-Cw1 and a human monoclonal antibody
against an HLA-A locus determinant derived from a single uniparous female.

Mulder A(1), Kardol MJ, Uit het Broek CM, Tanke-Visser J, Young NT, Claas FH.

Author information: 
(1)Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Immunohaematology and
Bloodbank, The Netherlands. mulder@rullf2.medfac.leidenuniv.nl

Two human monoclonal antibodies (HuMAbs) with widely different HLA specificities 
were raised from a uniparous HLA-seropositive female. Screening against a large
panel of serologically HLA-typed lymphocytes in the complement-dependent
cytotoxicity test showed that one of these HuMAbs, VP6G3, was specific for
HLA-Cw1, thereby constituting the first HuMAb against an HLA-C locus product. The
second HuMAb, VP5G3, was directed against an HLA-A-encoded determinant shared by 
HLA-A11, -A25, -A26 and -A66. The epitopes responsible for binding were
determined by comparing the aminoacid sequences and were pinpointed to the 6K/9F 
combination for HuMAb VP6G3, and 163R with a critical contribution of aminoacids 
present at positions 166/167 for HuMAb VP5G3.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0039.1998.tb03062.x 
PMID: 9820605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

