

352. Primate Biol. 2019 Jul 12;6(2):65-73. doi: 10.5194/pb-6-65-2019. eCollection
2019.

Effect of ovariectomy on proximal tibia metaphysis and lumbar vertebral body in
common marmoset monkeys.

Schlumbohm C(1), Seidlová-Wuttke D(2), Fuchs E(1).

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, 37077
Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, University Medical Center Göttingen, 37075
Göttingen, Germany.

This study aimed to investigate the effect of estrogen withdrawal on bone tissue 
in adult female marmoset monkeys. In a 1-year follow-up study we used
quantitative computer tomography to measure total bone mineral density (BMD) of
the proximal tibia and the second-last lumbar vertebral body (L5/L6) before and
1, 3, 6, and 12 months after ovariectomy. Body mass did not significantly change 
during the 1-year observation period. However, a significant decline of total BMD
after ovariectomy was observed in the proximal tibia but not in L5/L6. In
addition, regression analysis showed a significant positive relationship between 
BMD and body mass in both tibia and L5/L6. The results of our study support the
idea that ovariectomized marmoset monkeys may serve as a model to investigate
bone loss related to decline of estrogen production.

Copyright: © 2019 Christina Schlumbohm et al.

DOI: 10.5194/pb-6-65-2019 
PMCID: PMC7041521
PMID: 32110717 

Conflict of interest statement: Eberhard Fuchs is coordinating editor of the
journal .


353. Primate Biol. 2019 May 10;6(1):17-58. doi: 10.5194/pb-6-17-2019. eCollection
2019.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the common marmoset: a
translationally relevant model for the cause and course of multiple sclerosis.

't Hart BA(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences of Cells and Systems, University Medical
Center Groningen, the Netherlands.

Aging Western societies are facing an increasing prevalence of chronic
autoimmune-mediated inflammatory disorders (AIMIDs) for which treatments that are
safe and effective are scarce. One of the main reasons for this situation is the 
lack of animal models, which accurately replicate clinical and pathological
aspects of the human diseases. One important AIMID is the neuroinflammatory
disease multiple sclerosis (MS), for which the mouse experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) model has been frequently used in preclinical research.
Despite some successes, there is a long list of experimental treatments that have
failed to reproduce promising effects observed in murine EAE models when they
were tested in the clinic. This frustrating situation indicates a wide validity
gap between mouse EAE and MS. This monography describes the development of an EAE
model in nonhuman primates, which may help to bridge the gap.

Copyright: © 2019 Bert A. 't Hart.

DOI: 10.5194/pb-6-17-2019 
PMCID: PMC7041540
PMID: 32110715 

Conflict of interest statement: The author is a member of the editorial board of 
. No other competing interests are reported.

