

3529. J Endocrinol. 1998 Oct;159(1):141-51.

Expression, characterisation and immunoassay of recombinant marmoset chorionic
gonadotrophin dimer and beta-subunit.

Amato F(1), Simula AP, Gameau LJ, Norman RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive Medicine Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology,
University of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia.

A specific and sensitive ELISA for measuring marmoset chorionic gonadotrophin
(mCG) in culture medium, urine and plasma was developed using a polyclonal
antibody raised against recombinant mCG, tagged with six histidine molecules
(rmCG-6His), as the capture antibody. A well-characterised monoclonal antibody
(518B7), which was generated against bovine luteinising hormone (bLH) and has
been shown to detect CG and LH in Callithrichid monkeys, was biotinylated and
used as the secondary antibody. Purified rmCG, calibrated against human CG (hCG; 
CR127) by bioassay, or the beta-subunit (rmCGbeta), quantified from amino acid
analysis and carbohydrate analysis, was used as the standard. The assay was able 
to detect CG activity in medium collected from cultured marmoset embryos before
attachment and through to the trophoblastic vesicle stage, plasma and urine
collected from pregnant marmosets, marmoset placenta and pituitary homogenates.
The assay was validated and its performance compared with a bioassay based on
MA10 cell response to CG, with hCG as the standard. The sensitivity was 103 pg/ml
(5 pg/well) of rmCGbeta and 476 pg/ml (24 pg/well) of the heterodimer rmCG. The
mean recovery of standard added to embryo culture medium, marmoset urine and
plasma was 104, 112 and 92% respectively. The intra- and interassay variation was
less than 10 and 16% respectively. The low cross-reactivity with cynomolgus
monkey and baboon LH, their beta-subunits, cynomolgus monkey and baboon
follicle-stimulating hormone and hCG suggests that the assay is specific for mCG.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1590141 
PMID: 9795352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3530. Biochem Genet. 1998 Aug;36(7-8):229-44.

Electrophoretic polymorphisms and their taxonomic implications in Callitrichini
(Primates, Platyrrhini).

Meireles CM(1), Czelusniak J, Sampaio I, Schneider H, Ferrari SF, Coimbra-Filho
AF, Pissinatti A, Muniz JA, Ferreira HS, Schneider MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Wayne State University, School of
Medicine, Detroit, Michigan 48201, USA.

Five hundred forty-three blood samples from 15 populations of the four genera of 
callitrichin primates were studied electrophoretically. Polymorphism and genetic 
distances were estimated for 20 loci, 13 of which were polymorphic. The lion
tamarin (Leontopithecus) studied here exhibited the least variability for these
loci, while the monospecific Cebuella showed the most. The genetic distances
observed between Callithrix and Cebuella genera support previous evidence
indicating a close taxonomic relationship between them. Genetic distance values
obtained in this study also support the synonimyzation of the kuhli form with
Callithrix jacchus penicillata.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1018729009332 
PMID: 9791719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

