

3532. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 1998 Jul 25;142(1-2):165-74.

The unique exon 10 of the human luteinizing hormone receptor is necessary for
expression of the receptor protein at the plasma membrane in the human
luteinizing hormone receptor, but deleterious when inserted into the human
follicle-stimulating hormone receptor.

Zhang FP(1), Kero J, Huhtaniemi I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Turku, Finland.

The LH receptor (LHR) is a member of the family of G protein-coupled seven-times 
plasma membrane transversing receptors. Its gene consists of 11 exons, the last
one encoding the transmembrane and intracellular domains of the receptor. The
FSHR, and its gene, resemble structurally those of the LHR, with the exception
that the sequences corresponding to exon 10 in LHR are missing in FSHR, which is 
thus encoded by a total of ten exons. Our recent studies on the marmoset monkey
testis LHR cDNA indicated that an 81 bp nucleotide sequence, encoding the
complete exon 10 of the LHR gene in other mammalian species, is absent in this
species without affecting the LHR function. To study further the role of the exon
10 encoded sequences of the LHR in the gonadotropin receptor function, a deletion
of exon 10 from the human LHR (hLHdeltaexon10R), and a chimeric hFSHR with exon
10 from hLHR inserted (hFSHLHexon10R), were constructed in expression vectors.
The results presented here demonstrate that 293 cells transfected with the
hLHdeltaexon10R display a decrease in the proportion of the receptor binding at
the cell surface, compared with cells transfected with wild-type hLHR. However,
the cells expressing hLHdeltaexon10R showed similar high affinity binding of
[125I]iodo-hCG as those transfected with wild-type hLHR, in either intact cells
or their detergent extracts. In addition, cells expressing the hLHdeltaexon10R
and wild-type hLHR displayed similar dose-response of cAMP production to hCG
stimulation. Cells transfected with chimeric hFSHLHexon10R showed barely
detectable [125I]iodo-FSH binding in intact cells compared with those transfected
with wild-type hFSHR. The FSH binding detected in cellular detergent extracts
displayed 10-fold lower binding activity than wild-type receptors, in spite of
similar level of immunoreactive FSHR protein expression in the transfected cells.
The hFSHLHexon10R had a modest 5-fold lower binding affinity for FSH as compared 
with wild-type hFSHR. In conclusion, the present study indicates that the
sequences encoding exon 10 of the hLHR are essential for the LHR expression at
the plasma membrane, but deleterious for function if inserted into the hFSHR.

DOI: 10.1016/s0303-7207(98)00108-7 
PMID: 9783912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3533. Am J Pathol. 1998 Oct;153(4):1229-37.

Human interleukin-10 expression in T/natural killer-cell lymphomas: association
with anaplastic large cell lymphomas and nasal natural killer-cell lymphomas.

Boulland ML(1), Meignin V, Leroy-Viard K, Copie-Bergman C, Brière J, Touitou R,
Kanavaros P, Gaulard P.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Pathologie, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France.

Several cytokines have been implicated in the pathogenesis of human lymphomas.
Among them, interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a pleiotropic cytokine with various
biological effects on B and T lymphocytes. Its expression has been essentially
studied in B-cell lymphomas, where it appears to act as an autocrine growth
factor. BCRF1 (also called viral IL-10), an open reading frame of Epstein-Barr
virus, exhibits extensive sequence and functional homologies with human IL-10.
Some entities belonging to T- or natural killer (NK)-cell lymphomas are
characterized by a frequent association with Epstein-Barr virus. We analyzed 39
cases of peripheral T-cell lymphoma, as well as 7 cases of nasal NK-cell
lymphoma, for the presence of IL-10 transcripts by in situ hybridization, to see 
whether this cytokine was expressed in these tumors and whether its expression
could be related to their histological subtype and to the presence of
Epstein-Barr virus. Because the riboprobe used for in situ hybridization
recognizes both human and viral IL-10, 12 cases were also analyzed by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction to verify the human or viral origin of
IL-10. It was found that 8 of 11 (73%) anaplastic large cell lymphomas (ALCLs), 2
of 11 (18%) pleomorphic T-cell lymphomas, and 3 of 7 (43%) nasal NK-cell
lymphomas exhibited a large number of IL-10-expressing cells, whereas only rare
scattered cells were detected in angioimmunoblastic (11 of 11) and in gammadelta 
T-cell lymphomas (6 of 6). In ALCLs, the pattern of IL-10 mRNA-expressing cells
showed an overlapping with the CD30 staining and preferential localization in
sinusal and perifollicular areas, thereby suggesting that IL-10-expressing cells 
were tumor cells. Furthermore, IL-10 transcripts were detected in the SU-DHL-1
anaplastic lymphoma cell line. No correlation with Epstein-Barr virus profile was
found, because all cases of ALCL were negative for EBER 1 and 2 genes by in situ 
hybridization. We confirmed the presence of human IL-10 mRNA by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction in ALCLs as well as in NK-cell lymphomas,
whereas viral IL-10 was not detected. Thus, human and not viral IL-10 is
frequently expressed by tumor cells in ALCLs and nasal NK-cell lymphomas. In view
of its function in the proliferation and the differentiation of cytotoxic T and
NK cells, and its immunosuppressive properties, IL-10 may have a role in the
pathogenesis of these lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)65667-2 
PMCID: PMC1853048
PMID: 9777954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

