

3537. J Virol. 1998 Nov;72(11):8690-6.

Measles virus attenuation associated with transcriptional impediment and a few
amino acid changes in the polymerase and accessory proteins.

Takeda M(1), Kato A, Kobune F, Sakata H, Li Y, Shioda T, Sakai Y, Asakawa M,
Nagai Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Viral Infection, Institute of Medical Science, University of
Tokyo, Shirokanedai 4-6-1, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, USA.

Measles virus (MV) isolated in B95a cells, a marmoset B-cell line, retains full
pathogenicity for cynomolgus monkeys, while its derivative obtained by adaptation
to the growth in Vero cells, a monkey kidney cell line, loses the pathogenic
potential (F. Kobune, H. Sakata, and A. Sugiura, J. Virol. 64:700-705, 1990).
Here, we show with a pair of strains, a fresh isolate (9301B) in B95a cells and
its Vero cell-adapted form (9301V), that the in vivo attenuation parallels the
decrease of replication and syncytium-inducing capabilities in the original B95a 
cells and that these in vitro phenotypes are attributable to impediment of
transcription, which is already obvious at the level of primary transcription
catalyzed by the virion-associated RNA polymerase. On the other hand, cell fusion
assays detected no functional difference between the glycoproteins of the two
viruses. Essentially the same transcriptional impediment with reduced syncytium
induction following Vero cell adaptation was found with two other pairs of
strains that had been similarly prepared. Nucleotide sequence comparison between 
the 9301B and 9301V viruses revealed that a few (at most five) amino acid
changes, which sporadically took place in the polymerase (L and P proteins)
and/or accessory V and C proteins, were responsible for the in vitro and in vivo 
attenuation through adaptation to growth in Vero cells.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.11.8690-8696.1998 
PMCID: PMC110282
PMID: 9765410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3538. Vis Neurosci. 1998 Sep-Oct;15(5):931-43.

Interaction between rod and cone signals in responses of lateral geniculate
neurons in dichromatic marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Weiss S(1), Kremers J, Maurer J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of TÃ¼bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany.

Parvocellular (P-) and magnocellular (M-) cells in the marmoset LGN can receive
prominent rod input up to relatively high illuminance levels (Kremers et al.,
1997b). In the present paper, we quantify rod and cone input strengths under
different retinal illuminance levels. The stimulus was based on the so-called
"silent substitution" method. The activities of P- and M-cells of dichromatic
animals were recorded extracellularly. We were able to adequately describe the
response amplitudes and phases by a vector summation of rod and cone signals. At 
low retinal illuminance levels, the cells' responses were determined by rod and
cone inputs. With increasing illuminances the strength of the cone input
increased relative to the rod strength. But, we often found significant rod
inputs up to illuminances equivalent to 700 td in the human eye or more. Rod
input strength was more pronounced in cells with receptive fields at large
retinal eccentricities. The phase differences between rod and cone inputs suggest
that the rod signals lag about 45 ms behind the cone signals.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523898155177 
PMID: 9764535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

