

3540. Cardiovasc Res. 1998 Jul;39(1):194-215.

Characterisation, utilisation and clinical relevance of isolated perfused heart
models of ischaemia-induced ventricular fibrillation.

Curtis MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, Vascular Biology Research Centre, King's
College, London, UK. novfib@kcl.ac.uk

The isolated perfused heart has been used increasingly during the last decade as 
a model for identifying actions of drugs on ventricular fibrillation (VF) induced
by myocardial ischaemia. In addition, it has been used to explore the mechanisms 
responsible for the initiation and maintenance of VF, the concept of endogenous
myocardial protection and the phenomenon of preconditioning. This article is a
review of the available data (effects of drugs, sources of variation, comparison 
with other models and man, etc.) and an attempt to evaluate the possible clinical
relevance. For several reasons, it is not possible to make a precise judgement on
the absolute value of the model in terms of its ability to accurately predict the
effectiveness of drugs in the prevention of sudden cardiac death, the main reason
being the lack of a positive control, i.e. a drug with proven effectiveness
against sudden cardiac death caused by VF in man. Nevertheless, the means by
which one may reliably and reproducibly generate ischaemia-induced VF in
different isolated heart preparations, and the factors (such as species, heart
rate, perfusion constituents and involved zone size) that determine the incidence
of VF are now well documented. Careful selection of species and experimental
conditions permits the isolated heart of smaller inexpensive animals to function 
as a first line model for detecting anti-VF activity of probable relevance to
phase 1 arrhythmogenesis (i.e., arrhythmogenesis during the first 30 min of
ischaemia). In view of the absence of a clinical template from which to evaluate 
how well it predicts drug effectiveness in man, this model's clinical relevance, 
like that of all other preparations and models, can yet be neither accepted nor
dismissed. Recent publication patterns suggest an increasing use of the model.
Therefore, recommendations are made to facilitate its effective use.

DOI: 10.1016/s0008-6363(98)00083-2 
PMID: 9764200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3541. Int J Parasitol. 1998 Aug;28(8):1305-13.

Monoclonal antibodies to Toxoplasma gondii strain 119 identify recently isolated 
Danish strains as one group.

Jensen L(1), Petersen E, Henriksen SA, Dietz HH, Lind P.

Author information: 
(1)Danish Veterinary Laboratory, Copenhagen, Denmark. lej@svs.dk

Four mAb raised against the Danish Toxoplasma gondii strain 119, were selected by
screening hybridoma supernatants by indirect immunofluorescence against
tachyzoites of the RH strain in order to obtain strain-restricted markers. Strain
restriction extended beyond discrimination of the 119 and RH strains, as
demonstrated on a further six T. gondii reference strains [BK and GT1 (group A), 
NTE and 561 (group B), and NED and C56 (group C)]. The bradyzoite-specific mAb,
4.3, reacted to the GT1, NTE and 561 strains, but not to the BK, NED or C56
strains. The tachyzoite-specific mAb, 4.25, reacted to all strains tested except 
the RH strain, while mAb 5.1 reacted to tachyzoites of strains NTE and 561, but
not to those of the BK, GT1, NED or C56 strains. Monoclonal antibody 5.15 reacted
with the same strain restriction as monoclonal antibody 5.1, but to bradyzoites
as well as tachyzoites. A T. gondii strain collection representative for a small 
geographic area (Denmark) was established within a short time span from a variety
of animal species. Using the mAb as typing reagents to this Danish strain
collection, all 36 animal and two human strains were identified as having the
same reaction pattern as strains 119, NTE and 561.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7519(98)00073-3 
PMID: 9762579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

