

3541. Int J Parasitol. 1998 Aug;28(8):1305-13.

Monoclonal antibodies to Toxoplasma gondii strain 119 identify recently isolated 
Danish strains as one group.

Jensen L(1), Petersen E, Henriksen SA, Dietz HH, Lind P.

Author information: 
(1)Danish Veterinary Laboratory, Copenhagen, Denmark. lej@svs.dk

Four mAb raised against the Danish Toxoplasma gondii strain 119, were selected by
screening hybridoma supernatants by indirect immunofluorescence against
tachyzoites of the RH strain in order to obtain strain-restricted markers. Strain
restriction extended beyond discrimination of the 119 and RH strains, as
demonstrated on a further six T. gondii reference strains [BK and GT1 (group A), 
NTE and 561 (group B), and NED and C56 (group C)]. The bradyzoite-specific mAb,
4.3, reacted to the GT1, NTE and 561 strains, but not to the BK, NED or C56
strains. The tachyzoite-specific mAb, 4.25, reacted to all strains tested except 
the RH strain, while mAb 5.1 reacted to tachyzoites of strains NTE and 561, but
not to those of the BK, GT1, NED or C56 strains. Monoclonal antibody 5.15 reacted
with the same strain restriction as monoclonal antibody 5.1, but to bradyzoites
as well as tachyzoites. A T. gondii strain collection representative for a small 
geographic area (Denmark) was established within a short time span from a variety
of animal species. Using the mAb as typing reagents to this Danish strain
collection, all 36 animal and two human strains were identified as having the
same reaction pattern as strains 119, NTE and 561.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7519(98)00073-3 
PMID: 9762579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3542. J S Afr Vet Assoc. 1998 Jun;69(2):64-5.

The zoonotic importance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis: transmission from human to
monkey.

Michel AL(1), Huchzermeyer HF.

Author information: 
(1)Tuberculosis Laboratory, Onderstepoort Veterinary Institute, South Africa.

A case of zoonotic Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in a marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) is reported. Genomic typing of the relevant M. tuberculosis isolates
strongly suggests that the marmoset, which was kept as companion animal, acquired
the disease from an infected member in the household who had been treated for
pulmonary tuberculosis 8 years prior to this case.

DOI: 10.4102/jsava.v69i2.819 
PMID: 9760401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

