

3543. Neuroreport. 1998 Aug 24;9(12):2857-60.

Adenosine A2A receptors modify motor function in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Kanda T(1), Tashiro T, Kuwana Y, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co Ltd, Shizuoka, Japan.

Both adenosine A1 and A2 receptor populations are located in the striatum and can
modify locomotor activity, and they may form a therapeutic target for Parkinson's
disease (PD). Administration of the selective adenosine A2A antagonist
(E)-1,3-diethyl-8-(3,4-dimethoxystyryl)-7-methyl-3,7-dihydro-1H-pu rine-2,6-dione
(KW-6002) to MPTP-treated common marmosets increased locomotor activity. In
contrast, administration of the selective A1 receptor antagonist
1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxantine (DPCPX) had no effect on locomotion.
Administration of the adenosine A2A receptor agonist 2-[p-[2-(2-aminoethylamino) 
carbonylethyl] phenethyl amino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (APEC) dose
dependently suppressed basal locomotor activity. A minimally effective dose of
APEC (0.62 mg/kg, i.p) completely reversed the increase in locomotor activity
produced by administration of KW-6002. The adenosine A2A receptor appears to be
an important target for the treatment of basal ganglia disorders, particularly
PD.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199808240-00032 
PMID: 9760134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3544. Hum Reprod. 1998 Aug;13(8):2180-5.

Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 mRNA expression in endothelial cells
of the primate corpus luteum.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF, Kim H, Erickson GF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

Luteinization is associated with endothelial cell proliferation as part of the
extensive angiogenesis necessary to maintain corpus luteum function. However,
following luteal demise, the vasculature regresses and the endothelial cells
disappear. In the rat corpus luteum, the endothelial cells express high
concentrations of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3) during
luteolysis, suggesting a role of IGFBP-3 during endothelial cell loss. The aim of
the present study was to determine the occurrence and location of the messenger
ribonucleic acid (mRNA) for IGFBP-3 in the primate corpus luteum, and to
determine whether or not induction of luteal regression is associated with
changes in localization of the message. Marmoset corpora lutea were studied
throughout the cycle. The effects of induced luteolysis were examined 12 h or 24 
h after treatment with either a gonadotrophin-releasing hormone antagonist or a
prostaglandin F2alpha analogue, administered during the mid-luteal phase. High
IGFBP-3 expression was recorded in the endothelial cells of the majority of
microvessels and a minority of capillaries surrounding the lutein cells in all
functionally active corpora lutea. Expression declined markedly in regressing
corpora lutea of the late follicular phase. Expression of the IGFBP-3 mRNA in
lutein cells in the control corpus luteum was extremely rare. There were no major
differences in the degree and pattern of IGFBP-3 expression as a consequence of
induced luteal regression although there was an apparent increase in the number
of capillary endothelial cells expressing. Induction of luteolysis resulted in
expression in a minority of lutein cells. These results support the concept that 
IGFBP-3 has an autocrine/paracrine role in regulating various cell types in the
primate corpus luteum, including endothelial cells. However, expression of
IGFBP-3 mRNA throughout the luteal phase suggests it may regulate angiogenesis
and luteal function rather than endothelial cell death and luteolysis.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/13.8.2180 
PMID: 9756293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

