

3546. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1998;69(5):266-72.

Growth of marmoset monkeys Callithrix jacchus in captivity.

Peters VM(1), Guerra MO.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biologia da Reprodução, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Minas 
Gerais, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1159/000021636 
PMID: 9751829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3547. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Sep 29;95(20):11745-50.

The common marmoset: a new world primate species with limited Mhc class II
variability.

Antunes SG(1), de Groot NG, Brok H, Doxiadis G, Menezes AA, Otting N, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
151, 2288 GJ Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate species that is
highly susceptible to fatal infections caused by various strains of bacteria. We 
present here a first step in the molecular characterization of the common
marmoset's Mhc class II genes by nucleotide sequence analysis of the polymorphic 
exon 2 segments. For this study, genetic material was obtained from animals bred 
in captivity as well as in the wild. The results demonstrate that the common
marmoset has, like other primates, apparently functional Mhc-DR and -DQ regions, 
but the Mhc-DP region has been inactivated. At the -DR and -DQ loci, only a
limited number of lineages were detected. On the basis of the number of alleles
found, the -DQA and -B loci appear to be oligomorphic, whereas only a moderate
degree of polymorphism was observed for two of three Mhc-DRB loci. The contact
residues in the peptide-binding site of the Caja-DRB1*03 lineage members are
highly conserved, whereas the -DRB*W16 lineage members show more divergence in
that respect. The latter locus encodes five oligomorphic lineages whose members
are not observed in any other primate species studied, suggesting rapid
evolution, as illustrated by frequent exchange of polymorphic motifs. All common 
marmosets tested were found to share one monomorphic type of Caja-DRB*W12 allele 
probably encoded by a separate locus. Common marmosets apparently lack haplotype 
polymorphism because the number of Caja-DRB loci present per haplotype appears to
be constant. Despite this, however, an unexpectedly high number of allelic
combinations are observed at the haplotypic level, suggesting that Caja-DRB
alleles are exchanged frequently between chromosomes by recombination, promoting 
an optimal distribution of limited Mhc polymorphisms among individuals of a given
population. This peculiar genetic make up, in combination with the limited
variability of the major histocompatability complex class II repertoire, may
contribute to the common marmoset's susceptibility to particular bacterial
infections.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.20.11745 
PMCID: PMC21711
PMID: 9751736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

