

3551. Brain Res. 1998 Sep 14;805(1-2):213-9.

Is there a geniculohypothalamic tract in primates? A comparative
immunohistochemical study in the circadian system of strepsirhine and haplorhine 
species.

Chevassus-au-Louis N(1), Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U 371, Cerveau et Vision, 69 675 Bron, France.
chevassus@cochin.inserm.fr

In rodents, the circadian rhythm generated by the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic
nucleus (SCN) is modulated by two types of phenomena: photic phase-shifts,
mediated by the retinohypothalamic pathway and non-photic phase-shifts mediated
by the projection of the intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) to the SCN which contains 
the neuropeptide Y (NPY). In primates, the retinohypothalamic pathway has been
well-demonstrated but very little is known about the geniculohypothalamic tract. 
This prompted us to study NPY immunoreactivity in both the SCN and the IGL in
species representative of the three main primate lineages: prosimians
(Microcebus), New World monkeys (Callithrix) and Old World monkeys (Macacca). In 
species studied, we found a region in the pregeniculate nucleus containing both
NPY immunopositive cells and substance P immunopositive fibres that we identified
as the IGL. During evolution, this structure has moved from a ventral to a
dorsomedial position relative to the adjacent dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. 
By contrast, NPY-IP fibres in the SCN are dense in prosimians, but are sparse or 
absent in other primate species. We suggest that either the geniculohypothalamic 
projection is absent in higher primates as is the case in humans, or is absent in
diurnal mammals, or contains a different peptide, or that NPY immunoreactivity
varies according to other parameters.

Copyright 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(98)00741-0 
PMID: 9733968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3552. J Pharm Sci. 1998 Sep;87(9):1041-5.

Caco-2 cell permeability of a new (hydroxybenzyl)ethylenediamine oral iron
chelator: correlation with physicochemical properties and oral activity.

Lowther N(1), Tomlinson B, Fox R, Faller B, Sergejew T, Donnelly H.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical and Analytical Development, Ciba Pharmaceuticals (now Novartis 
Horsham Research Centre), Wimblehurst Road, Horsham, West Sussex RH12 4AB,
England. nicholas.lowther@pharma.novartis.com

This study describes the transport of CGP 75254A, a novel oral iron chelator,
across Caco-2 cells in an attempt to model intestinal epithelial cell
permeability in man. CGP 75254A was dosed to the apical side of Caco-2 cell
monolayers, together with [14C]mannitol as an internal permeability standard. The
apparent permeability (Papp) was calculated from the cumulative appearance of
drug in the basolateral fluid with time. The [14C]mannitol Papp indicated that
the Caco-2 monolayers remained intact and that the iron chelator was not toxic to
the cells. Permeabilities of CGP 75254A were compared with the Caco-2
permeabilities of compounds of known absorption in man. The results predict that 
absorption of CGP 75254A is likely to be virtually complete at pH values between 
5.5 and 7.0. However, at pH 8.0 permeability is predicted as negligible. Cell
permeability data are in full accordance with key physicochemical properties of
CGP 75254A and suggest that the drug is passively absorbed. The results, which
suggest likely quantitative absorption in vivo, are supported by preliminary
pharmacological experiments in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1021/js980191s 
PMID: 9724552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

