

3561. J Biochem. 1998 Aug;124(2):451-6.

Evolution of the apolipoprotein E receptor 2 gene by exon loss.

Kim HJ(1), Kim DH, Magoori K, Saeki S, Yamamoto TT.

Author information: 
(1)Tohoku University Gene Research Center, Aoba, Sendai, 981-8555, Japan.

The apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (apoER2) gene consists of a mosaic of exons,
which may have been assembled by "exon shuffling." Analysis of apoER2 transcripts
in several species reveals a lost repeat in the ligand-binding domain of primate 
apoER2. A pseudo-exon found in the primate apoER2 genes corresponds to the lost
repeat but contains a crucial deletion that leads to a translational frameshift. 
The pseudo-exon sequence in primary transcripts of the human apoER2 gene is shown
to be abolished by exon skipping due to two nucleotide substitutions at the
5'-splice donor adjacent to the pseudo-exon. These data suggest the occurrence of
exon loss in the evolution of the primate apoER2 gene.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a022134 
PMID: 9685741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3562. Vis Neurosci. 1998 Jul-Aug;15(4):625-42.

The distribution of calcium-binding proteins in the lateral geniculate nucleus
and visual cortex of a New World monkey, the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Goodchild AK(1), Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Antibodies directed against the calcium-binding proteins, parvalbumin and
calbindin, can be used to label distinct neuronal subgroups in the primate visual
pathway. We analyzed parvalbumin immunoreactivity (P-IR) and calbindin
immunoreactivity (C-IR) in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and visual cortex
of the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. We compared marmosets which were identified 
as having dichromatic or trichromatic color vision. Within the LGN, the density
of P-IR neurones is highest in the parvocellular and magnocellular laminae, but
C-IR neurones are found mainly in the koniocellular division of the LGN, that is,
the interlaminar zones and S laminae. Not all interlaminar zone cells are C-IR.
In the visual cortex, P-IR neurones are present in all laminae except lamina 1,
in areas V1 and V2. Neurones which are strongly C-IR are mainly located in
laminae 2 and 3 in V1 and V2. Lightly C-IR neurones are concentrated in lamina 4,
and are more numerous in V1 than in V2. Quantitative analysis showed no
differences in the density or distribution of IR neurones in either LGN or visual
cortex when dichromat and trichromat animals were compared. We conclude that this
functional difference is not associated with differences in the neurochemistry of
calcium-binding proteins in the primary visual pathways.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523898154044 
PMID: 9682866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

