

3562. Vis Neurosci. 1998 Jul-Aug;15(4):625-42.

The distribution of calcium-binding proteins in the lateral geniculate nucleus
and visual cortex of a New World monkey, the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Goodchild AK(1), Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Antibodies directed against the calcium-binding proteins, parvalbumin and
calbindin, can be used to label distinct neuronal subgroups in the primate visual
pathway. We analyzed parvalbumin immunoreactivity (P-IR) and calbindin
immunoreactivity (C-IR) in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and visual cortex
of the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. We compared marmosets which were identified 
as having dichromatic or trichromatic color vision. Within the LGN, the density
of P-IR neurones is highest in the parvocellular and magnocellular laminae, but
C-IR neurones are found mainly in the koniocellular division of the LGN, that is,
the interlaminar zones and S laminae. Not all interlaminar zone cells are C-IR.
In the visual cortex, P-IR neurones are present in all laminae except lamina 1,
in areas V1 and V2. Neurones which are strongly C-IR are mainly located in
laminae 2 and 3 in V1 and V2. Lightly C-IR neurones are concentrated in lamina 4,
and are more numerous in V1 than in V2. Quantitative analysis showed no
differences in the density or distribution of IR neurones in either LGN or visual
cortex when dichromat and trichromat animals were compared. We conclude that this
functional difference is not associated with differences in the neurochemistry of
calcium-binding proteins in the primary visual pathways.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523898154044 
PMID: 9682866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3563. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1998 Jun;9(3):408-13.

Phylogeny of neotropical monkeys: the interplay of morphological, molecular, and 
parasitological data.

Hugot JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mus√©um National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, BioSystematics and Coevolution in
Parasitic Nematodes, ERS 156 du CNRS, 61, Rue Buffon, Paris Cedex 05, 75231,
France.

Separate independent hypotheses of the phylogenetic relationships among the
Platyrrhini monkeys have been produced in a recent past, either based upon
morphological or molecular data, but the results are generally conflicting and
the phylogeny of the group still is debated. The high host specificity observed
among primates and their oxyurid parasites allows to consider the result of a
morphologically based cladistic analysis of the pinworms of the Platyrrhini as an
estimate of the phylogeny of these monkeys. Using the matrix representation
method this "parasite-tree" is combined, using parsimony analysis, with several
conflicting molecular or morphological hypothesis of the phylogeny of the host
group. The results are discussed with respect to previously published
classification, or composite computations of the phylogeny, of the Neotropical
monkeys. Comparison of different hypothesis makes apparent several stable groups:
(i) the Callithrichidae + Saimiri, (ii) the Atelidae/Alouattidae, (iii) the
Pitheciidae, and (iv) the Alouattidae/Atelidae + Pitheciidae. In addition, the
parasite and the molecular trees support close relationships between Callimico
and Callithrix/Cebuella. The study also makes apparent that the parasite tree
generally portrays the results of other studies, both when they are congruous and
when they are conflicting. This is interpreted to be additional evidence for
close coevolution between the Platyrrhini and their specific pinworms. Because,
whatever the combination of data being considered no consensus can be found on
the exact position of Aotus and Callicebus, and because it is likely that the
earliest radiation of the Platyrrhini could be comparable to an evolutionary
burst, which renders identification of homologous characters difficult, it is
suggested that, possibly, not enough discriminating tracks of the evolutionary
paths have been conserved to allow to resolve this uncertainty in the future.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1998.0497 
PMID: 9667989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

