

3566. Nat Med. 1998 Jul;4(7):827-31.

Aging renders the brain vulnerable to amyloid beta-protein neurotoxicity.

Geula C(1), Wu CK, Saroff D, Lorenzo A, Yuan M, Yankner BA.

Author information: 
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Department of Medicine, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. cgeula@west.bidmc.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Nat Med. 1998 Jul;4(7):745.

The formation of fibrillar deposits of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) in the brain 
is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A central question is
whether Abeta plays a direct role in the neurodegenerative process in AD. The
involvement of Abeta in the neurodegenerative process is suggested by the
neurotoxicity of the fibrillar form of Abeta in vitro. However, mice transgenic
for the Abeta precursor protein that develop amyloid deposits in the brain do not
show the degree of neuronal loss or tau phosphorylation found in AD. Here we show
that microinjection of plaque-equivalent concentrations of fibrillar, but not
soluble, Abeta in the aged rhesus monkey cerebral cortex results in profound
neuronal loss, tau phosphorylation and microglial proliferation. Fibrillar Abeta 
at plaque-equivalent concentrations is not toxic in the young adult rhesus brain.
Abeta toxicity in vivo is also highly species-specific; toxicity is greater in
aged rhesus monkeys than in aged marmoset monkeys, and is not significant in aged
rats. These results suggest that Abeta neurotoxicity in vivo is a pathological
response of the aging brain, which is most pronounced in higher order primates.
Thus, longevity may contribute to the unique susceptibility of humans to
Alzheimer's disease by rendering the brain vulnerable to Abeta neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0798-827 
PMID: 9662375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3567. J Virol. 1998 Aug;72(8):6770-6.

A role for herpesvirus saimiri orf14 in transformation and persistent infection.

Duboise M(1), Guo J, Czajak S, Lee H, Veazey R, Desrosiers RC, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

The product of open reading frame 14 (orf14) of herpesvirus saimiri (HVS)
exhibits significant homology with mouse mammary tumor virus superantigen. orf14 
encodes a 50-kDa secreted glycoprotein, as shown previously (Z. Yao, E.
Maraskovsky, M. K. Spriggs, J. I. Cohen, R. J. Armitage, and M. R. Alderson, J.
Immunol. 156:3260-3266, 1996). orf14 expressed from recombinant baculovirus
powerfully induces proliferation of CD4-positive cells originating from several
different species. To study the role of orf14 in transformation, a mutant form of
HVS (HVS Deltaorf14) was constructed with a deletion in the orf14 gene. The
transforming potential of HVS Deltaorf14 was tested in cell culture and in common
marmosets. Parental HVS subgroup C strain 488 immortalized common marmoset T
lymphocytes in vitro to interleukin-2-independent growth, while the HVS
Deltaorf14 mutant did not produce such a growth transformation. In addition, HVS 
Deltaorf14 was nononcogenic in common marmosets. In contrast to other
nononcogenic HVS mutant viruses which were repeatedly isolated from peripheral
blood mononuclear cells of infected marmosets for more than 5 months, HVS
Deltaorf14 did not persist at a high level in vivo. These results demonstrate
that orf14 of HVS is not required for replication but is required for
transformation and for high-level persistence in vivo.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.8.6770-6776.1998 
PMCID: PMC109885
PMID: 9658125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

