

3567. J Virol. 1998 Aug;72(8):6770-6.

A role for herpesvirus saimiri orf14 in transformation and persistent infection.

Duboise M(1), Guo J, Czajak S, Lee H, Veazey R, Desrosiers RC, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

The product of open reading frame 14 (orf14) of herpesvirus saimiri (HVS)
exhibits significant homology with mouse mammary tumor virus superantigen. orf14 
encodes a 50-kDa secreted glycoprotein, as shown previously (Z. Yao, E.
Maraskovsky, M. K. Spriggs, J. I. Cohen, R. J. Armitage, and M. R. Alderson, J.
Immunol. 156:3260-3266, 1996). orf14 expressed from recombinant baculovirus
powerfully induces proliferation of CD4-positive cells originating from several
different species. To study the role of orf14 in transformation, a mutant form of
HVS (HVS Deltaorf14) was constructed with a deletion in the orf14 gene. The
transforming potential of HVS Deltaorf14 was tested in cell culture and in common
marmosets. Parental HVS subgroup C strain 488 immortalized common marmoset T
lymphocytes in vitro to interleukin-2-independent growth, while the HVS
Deltaorf14 mutant did not produce such a growth transformation. In addition, HVS 
Deltaorf14 was nononcogenic in common marmosets. In contrast to other
nononcogenic HVS mutant viruses which were repeatedly isolated from peripheral
blood mononuclear cells of infected marmosets for more than 5 months, HVS
Deltaorf14 did not persist at a high level in vivo. These results demonstrate
that orf14 of HVS is not required for replication but is required for
transformation and for high-level persistence in vivo.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.8.6770-6776.1998 
PMCID: PMC109885
PMID: 9658125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3568. J Neuroimmunol. 1998 Jun 1;86(1):30-45.

Expression of accessory molecules and cytokines in acute EAE in marmoset monkeys 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Laman JD(1), van Meurs M, Schellekens MM, de Boer M, Melchers B, Massacesi L,
Lassmann H, Claassen E, Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunological and Infectious Diseases, TNO Prevention and Health, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. jd.laman@pg.tno.nl

Accessory molecules and cytokines are involved in the immunopathogenesis of
multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in
rodent models, and are potential targets for immunotherapy. Evaluation of such
experimental therapies requires appropriate animal models. Therefore, we analysed
the expression of selected accessory molecules and cytokines in the brain of
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with acute EAE, a newly described non-human
primate model for MS. All animals experienced active disease clinically and
histopathologically with strong resemblance to MS. Perivascular infiltrates of
mononuclear cells showed abundant expression of CD40. CD40 was expressed on
macrophages, indicating that T cell priming and macrophage effector functions may
result from local CD40-CD40L interactions. CD40 ligand (CD40L) and B7-2 (CD86)
were also expressed, but to a lower extent, while B7-1 (CD80) expression was
limited. Both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines were produced
within individual lesions during active disease (IFN-alpha, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha,
IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10 and IL-12). This suggests that relative
levels rather than sequential expression of Th1- and Th2-type cytokines determine
disease activity. These findings demonstrate the value of EAE in marmoset monkeys
as a model to assess the role of accessory molecules and cytokines in multiple
sclerosis, and to evaluate targeted intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5728(98)00024-1 
PMID: 9655470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

