

3573. J Mol Evol. 1998 Jun;46(6):697-702.

Molecular genetics of spectral tuning in New World monkey color vision.

Shyue SK(1), Boissinot S, Schneider H, Sampaio I, Schneider MP, Abee CR, Williams
L, Hewett-Emmett D, Sperling HG, Cowing JA, Dulai KS, Hunt DM, Li WH.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas, P.O. Box 
20334, Houston, TX 77225, USA.

Although most New World monkeys have only one X-linked photopigment locus, many
species have three polymorphic alleles at the locus. The three alleles in the
squirrel monkey and capuchin have spectral peaks near 562, 550, and 535 nm,
respectively, and the three alleles in the marmoset and tamarin have spectral
peaks near 562, 556, and 543 nm, respectively. To determine the amino acids
responsible for the spectral sensitivity differences among these pigment
variants, we sequenced all exons of the three alleles in each of these four
species. From the deduced amino acid sequences and the spectral peak information 
and from previous studies of the spectral tuning of X-linked pigments in humans
and New World monkeys, we estimated that the Ala --> Ser, Ile --> Phe, Gly -->
Ser, Phe --> Tyr, and Ala --> Tyr substitutions at residue positions 180, 229,
233, 277, and 285, respectively, cause spectral shifts of about 5, -2, -1, 8, and
15 nm. On the other hand, the substitutions His --> Tyr, Met --> Val or Leu, and 
Ala --> Tyr at positions 116, 275, and 276, respectively, have no discernible
spectral tuning effect, though residues 275 and 276 are inside the transmembrane 
domains. Many substitutions between Val and Ile or between Val and Ala have
occurred in the transmembrane domains among the New World monkey pigment variants
but apparently have no effect on spectral tuning. Our study suggests that, in
addition to amino acid changes involving a hydroxyl group, large changes in
residue size can also cause a spectral shift in a visual pigment.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00006350 
PMID: 9608052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3574. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1998;52:271-8.

Chronic TVP-1012 (rasagiline) dose--activity response of monoamine oxidases A and
B in the brain of the common marmoset.

Götz ME(1), Breithaupt W, Sautter J, Kupsch A, Schwarz J, Oertel WH, Youdim MB,
Riederer P, Gerlach M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Julius-Maximilians-University, Würzburg, Federal
Republic of Germany.

The stereospecific form of the known acetylenic mechanism-based MAO-inhibitor
AGN1135 (Rasagiline, TVP-1012) is devoid of sympathomimetic amphetamine-like
properties. To evaluate the efficiency and selectivity of subcutaneous injections
of TVP-1012 (dose range from 0.01 up to 10 mg/kg for 7 days) the activities of
monoamine oxidases A and B (MAO-A,-B) were determined in different brain regions 
of the common marmoset. At a dose of 0.1 mg/kg TVP-1012, almost 80% of MAO-B
activity is inhibited in all brain regions investigated (prefrontal and occipital
cortex, cerebellum, caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens). In contrast,
MAO-A is not inhibited in putamen and nucleus accumbens. However, by increasing
the TVP-1012 dose to 0.5 mg/kg, MAO-A is inhibited to a significant extent as
well, concomitant to total inhibition of MAO-B. The results obtained indicate
that TVP-1012 irreversibly inhibits both types of MAO in the common marmoset with
selectivity for MAO-B at doses less than 0.5 mg/kg. TVP-1012 could be useful in
studies requiring selective MAO-B inhibition without concomitant sympathomimetic 
amphetamine-like effects and could thus be of therapeutic interest for
Parkinson's disease and retarded depression.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-6499-0_27 
PMID: 9564627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

