

3574. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1998;52:271-8.

Chronic TVP-1012 (rasagiline) dose--activity response of monoamine oxidases A and
B in the brain of the common marmoset.

Götz ME(1), Breithaupt W, Sautter J, Kupsch A, Schwarz J, Oertel WH, Youdim MB,
Riederer P, Gerlach M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Julius-Maximilians-University, Würzburg, Federal
Republic of Germany.

The stereospecific form of the known acetylenic mechanism-based MAO-inhibitor
AGN1135 (Rasagiline, TVP-1012) is devoid of sympathomimetic amphetamine-like
properties. To evaluate the efficiency and selectivity of subcutaneous injections
of TVP-1012 (dose range from 0.01 up to 10 mg/kg for 7 days) the activities of
monoamine oxidases A and B (MAO-A,-B) were determined in different brain regions 
of the common marmoset. At a dose of 0.1 mg/kg TVP-1012, almost 80% of MAO-B
activity is inhibited in all brain regions investigated (prefrontal and occipital
cortex, cerebellum, caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens). In contrast,
MAO-A is not inhibited in putamen and nucleus accumbens. However, by increasing
the TVP-1012 dose to 0.5 mg/kg, MAO-A is inhibited to a significant extent as
well, concomitant to total inhibition of MAO-B. The results obtained indicate
that TVP-1012 irreversibly inhibits both types of MAO in the common marmoset with
selectivity for MAO-B at doses less than 0.5 mg/kg. TVP-1012 could be useful in
studies requiring selective MAO-B inhibition without concomitant sympathomimetic 
amphetamine-like effects and could thus be of therapeutic interest for
Parkinson's disease and retarded depression.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-6499-0_27 
PMID: 9564627  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3575. Nat Med. 1998 Jun;4(6):727-9.

Functional integration of striatal allografts in a primate model of Huntington's 
disease.

Kendall AL(1), Rayment FD, Torres EM, Baker HF, Ridley RM, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and the MRC Cambridge Centre for Brain
Repair, University of Cambridge, UK. alk1001@cus.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nat Med. 1998 Jun;4(6):669-70.

Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant, inherited disorder that results in
progressive degeneration of the basal ganglia (especially the neostriatal caudate
nucleus and putamen) and other forebrain structures and is associated with a
clinical profile of movement, cognitive and psychiatric impairments for which
there is at present no effective therapy. Neuropathological, neurochemical and
behavioral features of the disease can all be reproduced in experimental animals 
by local injection of excitotoxic or metabolic toxins into the neostriatum. All
these features of the disease can be alleviated, at least in rats, by
transplantation of embryonic striatal tissue into the degenerated striatum, which
was the basis for commencing the first clinical trials of striatal
transplantation in Huntington's patients. However, although rat striatal
xenografts may temporarily reduce apomorphine-induced dyskinesias in monkeys,
there has been no demonstration that allograft techniques that work well in rats 
translate effectively to the much larger differentiated striatum of primates.
Here we demonstrate good survival, differentiation and integration of striatal
allografts in the primate neostriatum, and recovery in a test of skilled motor
performance. Long-term graft survival in primates indicates probable success for 
clinical transplants in Huntington's disease; in addition, our data suggest that 
graft placement has a direct influence on the pattern and extent of functional
recovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0698-727 
PMID: 9623985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

