

3579. J Med Primatol. 1998 Feb;27(1):28-32.

Estimation of gestational ages in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) from
published prenatal growth curves.

Tardif SD(1), Jaquish CE, Toal RL, Layne DG, Power RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Ohio 44242-0001,
USA.

This report compares estimated gestational ages from published cubic spline
curves to gestational ages estimated retrospectively from delivery dates in 28
pregnancies from ten common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Both CRL- and
BPD-based estimates of gestational age were closely correlated with
delivery-based gestational age estimates. Of the three ultrasound machines used, 
the one with 16 shades of gray and a sequential linear array overestimated
gestational age during early pregnancy, based on CRL measures. Measures from the 
other two machines (64 or 264 shades of gray; linear sector and annular array or 
electronic phase array) were similar and resulted in a correlation of the two
estimates of gestational age of 0.94 and a mean difference between the two
estimates of 0.16 days with 80% of CRL-based gestational age estimates being
within +/- 5 days of the delivery-based estimate. The reliability of BPD-based
estimates of gestational age was strongly related to pregnancy outcome. BPD-based
estimates underestimated gestational age in poor outcome pregnancies (i.e., those
in which infants died within 7 days of birth) but not in good outcome
pregnancies. The combined CRL- and BPD-based estimates on poor outcome
pregnancies suggest that there was less growth in BPD in late gestation for those
pregnancies that resulted in nonviable offspring. For good outcome pregnancies,
the correlation between BPD-based and delivery-based estimates of gestational age
was 0.871 and the mean difference between the two estimates was -0.06 days with
83.3% of BPD-based estimates falling within +/- 5 days of delivery-based
estimates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1998.tb00065.x 
PMID: 9606040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3580. Br J Pharmacol. 1998 Apr;123(8):1579-86.

Purinoceptor subtypes mediating contraction and relaxation of marmoset urinary
bladder smooth muscle.

McMurray G(1), Dass N, Brading AF.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Oxford.
