

3580. Br J Pharmacol. 1998 Apr;123(8):1579-86.

Purinoceptor subtypes mediating contraction and relaxation of marmoset urinary
bladder smooth muscle.

McMurray G(1), Dass N, Brading AF.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Oxford.

1. The effects of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), adenosine diphosphate (ADP),
alpha,beta-methylene-ATP (alpha,beta-MeATP) and 2-methylthio-ATP (2-MeSATP) on
longitudinally orientated smooth muscle strips from marmoset urinary bladder were
investigated by use of standard organ bath techniques. 2. After being mounted in 
superfusion organ baths, 66.7% (n=249) of marmoset detrusor smooth muscle strips 
developed spontaneous tone, 48.2% of all strips examined developed tone
equivalent to greater than 0.1 g mg(-1) of tissue and were subsequently utilized 
in the present investigation. 3. On exposure to ATP, muscle strips exhibited a
biphasic response, a rapid and transient contraction followed by a more prolonged
relaxation. Both responses were found to be concentration-dependent. ADP and
2-MeSATP elicited a similar response (contraction followed by relaxation),
whereas application of alpha,beta-MeATP only produced a contraction. The potency 
order for each effect was alpha,beta-MeATP> >2-MeSATP> ATP>ADP (contractile
response) and ATP=2-MeSATP> or = ADP> > alpha,beta-MeATP (relaxational response).
4. Desensitization with alpha,beta-MeATP (10 microM) abolished the contractile
phase of the response to ATP, but had no effect on the level of relaxation evoked
by this agonist. On the other hand, the G-protein inactivator, GDPbetaS (100
microM) abolished only the relaxation response to ATP. Suramin (general P2
antagonist, 100 microM) shifted both the contractile and relaxation ATP
concentration-response curves to the right, whereas cibacron blue (P2Y
antagonist, 10 microM) only antagonized the relaxation response to ATP. In
contrast, the adenosine receptor antagonist, 8-phenyltheophylline (10 microM),
had no effect on the relaxation response curve to ATP. 5. Incubation with
tetrodotoxin (TTX, 3 microM) or depolarization of the muscle strip with 40 mM K+ 
Krebs failed to abolish the relaxation to ATP. In addition, neither
Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG, 10 microM) nor methylene blue (10 microM) had
any effect on the relaxation response curve. However, tos-phe-chloromethylketone 
(TPCK, 3 microM), an inhibitor of cyclicAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA),
significantly (P<0.01) shifted the curve for the ATP-induced relaxation to the
right. 6. It is proposed that marmoset detrusor smooth muscle contains two
receptors for ATP, a classical P2X-type receptor mediating smooth muscle
contraction, and a P2Y (G-protein linked) receptor mediating smooth muscle
relaxation. The results also indicate that the ATP-evoked relaxation may occur
through the activation of cyclicAMP-dependent PKA.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0701774 
PMCID: PMC1565329
PMID: 9605564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3581. Toxicol Sci. 1998 Mar;42(1):49-56.

Subchronic toxicity of Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate in common marmosets: lack of
hepatic peroxisome proliferation, testicular atrophy, or pancreatic acinar cell
hyperplasia.

Kurata Y(1), Kidachi F, Yokoyama M, Toyota N, Tsuchitani M, Katoh M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., 14 Sunayama, Hasaki-machi,
Kashima-gun, Ibaraki-ken, 314-02, Japan.

To evaluate the toxicological effect, di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) was
administered orally at 100, 500, and 2500 mg/kg to four male and four female
marmosets in each group for 13 weeks. Its potentials of hepatic peroxisome
proliferation, testicular atrophy, and pancreatic acinar cell hyperplasia were
evaluated more closely. Clofibrate, which potently causes peroxisome
proliferation in rodents, was administered in like manner at 250 mg/kg as a
reference drug. DEHP induced significant suppression of weight gain in males at
2500 mg/kg. However, the increase in liver mass and hypertrophy of hepatocytes
were not detected in organ weight measurements or histopathological examination. 
The number of peroxisomes, volume density, peroxisome morphology, and peroxisomal
enzyme activities were not different from those in the control group, though the 
males treated with 500 and 2500 mg/kg DEHP showed 1.3- and 1.4-fold increases in 
mean peroxisome volume, respectively. In contrast, clofibrate induced 2.2 (in
male)- and 1.9-fold (in female) increases in hepatic cyanide-insensitive acyl CoA
oxidation system activity, 1. 2 (in male)- and 1.7-fold (in female) increases in 
hepatic carnitine-dependent acetyltransferase activity, and 1.8 (in male)- and
3.0-fold (in female) increases of carnitine-dependent palmitoyltransferase
activity. Cytochrome P-450 contents tended to increase in all males and females
administered 500 and 2500 mg/kg of DEHP and clofibrate associated with the
increase in hepatic microsomal protein content, suggesting a relationship with
the treatment. The atrophic change in the testis or proliferative change in the
pancreatic acinar cells seen in rodents were not seen histopathologically; also, 
no changes were observed in testes weight, testicular zinc level, blood levels of
testosterone and estradiol, pancreas weight, and blood levels of cholecystokinin.
Finally, no changes considered to be due to the administration of DEHP were noted
in blood chemical examination or pathological examination of other organs.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/toxs.1997.2414 
PMID: 9538047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

