

3582. J Gen Virol. 1998 May;79 ( Pt 5):1257-64.

Overexpression, purification and helix-destabilizing properties of Epstein-Barr
virus ssDNA-binding protein.

Tsurumi T(1), Kishore J, Yokoyama N, Fujita M, Daikoku T, Yamada H, Yamashita Y, 
Nishiyama Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Viral Oncology, Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute, Nagoya, 
Japan. ttsurumi@aichi-cc.pref.aichi.jp

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) ssDNA-binding protein (SSB) encoded by the BALF2
gene is one of the essential replication proteins in the lytic phase of EBV DNA
replication. In order to obtain the amount of EBV SSB required for
characterization, a recombinant baculovirus containing the complete sequence of
the BALF2 open reading frame under the control of the baculovirus polyhedrin
promoter was constructed. Insect cells infected with the recombinant virus
produced a protein of 130 kDa, recognized by anti-BALF2 protein-specific
polyclonal antibody. The overexpressed EBV SSB was purified homogeneously from
the cytosolic fraction of the recombinant virus-infected cells. The purified
protein displaced short DNA strands from their complementary sequences in the
single-stranded form of M13. The helix-destabilizing activity was neutralized by 
the anti-BALF2 protein-specific antibody. Maximum unwinding occurred at EBV SSB
concentrations exceeding saturation level of the DNA substrate. The DNA unwinding
reaction mediated by the EBV SSB was highly cooperative and extremely rapid. The 
reaction displayed no directionality and required neither ATP nor MgCl2, two
essential cofactors for DNA helicase activity. The helix-destabilizing property
of the EBV SSB may function to melt out secondary structures on the ssDNA
template, thereby facilitating the movement of the EBV DNA polymerase.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-79-5-1257 
PMID: 9603341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3583. Biochem J. 1998 Mar 15;330 ( Pt 3):1351-9.

Molecular cloning of membrane cofactor protein (MCP; CD46) on B95a cell, an
Epstein-Barr virus-transformed marmoset B cell line: B95a-MCP is susceptible to
infection by the CAM, but not the Nagahata strain of the measles virus.

Murakami Y(1), Seya T, Kurita M, Fukui A, Ueda S, Nagasawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hokkaido University, Kita-ku Sapporo 060, 
Japan.

Measles virus (MV) infects not only human beings but also some simian species.
The MV receptor on Vero cells (a cell line established from African Green monkey 
kidney cells) and human cells has been shown to be the membrane cofactor protein 
MCP/CD46, which is an inhibitor of autologous complement (C) activation. B95a, an
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed marmoset B cell line, is a simian cell line 
used for MV selection and is much more susceptible to MV than Vero cells. In the 
present study, we isolated cDNAs encoding MCP homologues from B95a cDNA library
and assessed whether B95a-MCP is responsible for the high susceptibility of B95a 
to MV. The deduced amino acid sequence of the cDNA of B95a-MCP was 76% identical 
to that of human-MCP, and the recombinant B95a-MCP exerts C inhibitor activity.
Although CAM, a vaccine strain of MV, infected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells 
expressing B95a-MCP, Nagahata strain, a wild type of MV, failed to infect the CHO
transfectants, suggesting that additional membrane molecules of B95a are
responsible for the high susceptibility of B95a to the Nagahata strain.

DOI: 10.1042/bj3301351 
PMCID: PMC1219282
PMID: 9494106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

