

3584. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 1998 Mar-Apr;25(3-4):246-51.

5-Hydroxytryptamine-induced contraction of the marmoset aorta is mediated by a
5-HT1-like receptor.

Dyer SM(1), de la Lande IS, Frewin DB, Head RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Pharmacology, The University of
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

1. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) exerts both contractile and relaxant effects in the
marmoset isolated aorta, actions that are unaffected by the 5-HT2 antagonist
ketanserin. The aim of the present study was to define the receptors mediating
the contractile activity of 5-HT in the marmoset aorta. 2. Contractile responses 
were elicited in aortic rings that were either: (i) precontracted submaximally
with the thromboxane A2 agonist U44069 in order to amplify the responses; or (ii)
exposed to N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (100 micromol/L) plus LY 53857 (0.1
micromol/L; a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist shown previously to inhibit relaxation). 
The effect of 5-HT on adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) formation was
also investigated. 3. The effects of agonists and antagonists comprised: (i)
agonist potencies in the order 5-carboxamidotryptamine > 5-HT > sumatriptan >
8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin; (ii) inhibition of contractile action of 
5-HT by the 5-HT1D antagonist GR 127935; (iii) a contractile response to
methysergide; (iv) a lack of effect of tropisetron, an antagonist of 5-HT3 and
5-HT4 receptors; and (v) inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation by
5-HT (in the presence of LY 53857), indicative of negative coupling to adenylate 
cyclase. 4. The above effects fulfill the criteria for a 5-HT1-like receptor. In 
view of the previous finding that this contractile response is insensitive to
ketanserin, it is concluded that the contractile effects of 5-HT in the marmoset 
aorta are mediated exclusively by a 5-HT1-like receptor.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.1998.t01-13-.x 
PMID: 9590577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3585. Nat Med. 1998 May;4(5):555-7.

Closer to neurogenesis in adult humans.

Kempermann G, Gage FH.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0598-555 
PMID: 9585224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

