

3590. J Virol. 1998 May;72(5):3698-704.

Substitution of ras for the herpesvirus saimiri STP oncogene in lymphocyte
transformation.

Guo J(1), Williams K, Duboise SM, Alexander L, Veazey R, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

STP-C488 (STP of herpesvirus saimiri [HVS] group C strain 488 [C488]) is the only
virus-encoded protein found to associate with cellular ras and activate ras
signal transduction pathways. To investigate an important role for ras signal
transduction in STP-dependent growth transformation, we constructed recombinant
strains of HVS C488 in which the STP-C488 oncogene was replaced with cellular
normal ras (c-ras) or viral oncogenic ras (v-ras). Recombinant HVS deltaSTP/v-ras
immortalized primary common marmoset T lymphocytes to interleukin-2-independent
growth as efficiently as wild-type HVS C488 (wt HVS), while recombinant HVS
deltaSTP/c-ras did so with low efficiency. Whereas wt HVS immortalized CD4- CD8+ 
single-positive T lymphocytes, HVS deltaSTP/c-ras- and HVS
deltaSTP/v-ras-immortalized cells were principally CD4+ CD8+ double-positive T
lymphocytes. In addition, HVS deltaSTP/v-ras-immortalized T cells showed a high
level of ras expression and exhibited an adherent macrophage-like morphology.
These phenotypes were likely caused by the drastic activation of AP-1
transcriptional factor activity. Finally, HVS deltaSTP/v-ras and HVS
deltaSTP/c-ras each induced lymphoma in one of two common marmosets, although
onset of disease was more rapid with the v-ras virus. These results demonstrate
that ras can substitute for the STP oncogene of HVS C488 to allow immortalized
growth of primary lymphoid cells and that an activated form of ras does so more
efficiently than the normal cellular form of ras.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.5.3698-3704.1998 
PMCID: PMC109591
PMID: 9557651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3591. Am J Reprod Immunol. 1998 Apr;39(4):256-65.

Changes in lymphoid tissue after treatment with a gonadotropin releasing hormone 
antagonist in the neonatal marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Mann DR(1), Howie S, Paulsen DF, Akinbami MA, Lunn SF, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia
30310-1495, USA.

PROBLEM: The effect of neonatal treatment with a gonadotropin releasing hormone
(GnRH) antagonist on the morphology and distribution of lymphocytes in lymphoid
tissue of the infant marmoset was examined.
METHOD OF STUDY: From a screened panel of antihuman antibodies for specific
immune cells, antibodies for the CD20 and CD3 antigens showed excellent
reactivity with marmoset tissue. Five sets of marmoset twins were treated with
either the GnRH antagonist or a vehicle from birth, and were euthanized at 7 to 9
(3 sets) or 16 to 20 weeks (2 sets) of age. The spleen, thymus, and inguinal
lymph nodes from each animal were processed for immunocytochemistry, and the
number of cells expressing the CD20 and CD3 antigens were quantified.
RESULTS: Control twins exhibited high plasma levels of testosterone,
characteristic of the neonatal period, whereas testosterone concentrations were
reduced (P = 0.001) to detection limits in the GnRH antagonist-treated twins.
Microscopic evaluation suggested that treatment reduced the volume and
cellularity of the thymic cortex, resulting in a decrease in the
cortical-to-medullary ratio. Treatment reduced (P = 0.046) the number of
thymocytes expressing the B-cell antigen (CD20) and marginally lowered (P =
0.067) the number expressing the T-cell antigen (CD3) in the thymic medulla. In
the spleens of treated animals, periarterial lymphatic sheaths were less
prominent on microscopic examination, and there were marginally fewer (P = 0.064)
CD3+ cells. Numbers of CD20+ lymphocytes in the peripheral white pulp of the
spleen and in the germinal centers of the lymph nodes, or CD3+ cells in the
paracortex and germinal centers of the lymph nodes, were not altered by
treatment.
CONCLUSION: Neonatal treatment with a GnRH antagonist may alter maturational
processes for B and T cells in the thymus and spleen of the marmoset and may
deprive the immune system of its normal sensitivity to GnRH at a potentially
critical time in development.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.1998.tb00362.x 
PMID: 9553650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

