

3591. Am J Reprod Immunol. 1998 Apr;39(4):256-65.

Changes in lymphoid tissue after treatment with a gonadotropin releasing hormone 
antagonist in the neonatal marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Mann DR(1), Howie S, Paulsen DF, Akinbami MA, Lunn SF, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia
30310-1495, USA.

PROBLEM: The effect of neonatal treatment with a gonadotropin releasing hormone
(GnRH) antagonist on the morphology and distribution of lymphocytes in lymphoid
tissue of the infant marmoset was examined.
METHOD OF STUDY: From a screened panel of antihuman antibodies for specific
immune cells, antibodies for the CD20 and CD3 antigens showed excellent
reactivity with marmoset tissue. Five sets of marmoset twins were treated with
either the GnRH antagonist or a vehicle from birth, and were euthanized at 7 to 9
(3 sets) or 16 to 20 weeks (2 sets) of age. The spleen, thymus, and inguinal
lymph nodes from each animal were processed for immunocytochemistry, and the
number of cells expressing the CD20 and CD3 antigens were quantified.
RESULTS: Control twins exhibited high plasma levels of testosterone,
characteristic of the neonatal period, whereas testosterone concentrations were
reduced (P = 0.001) to detection limits in the GnRH antagonist-treated twins.
Microscopic evaluation suggested that treatment reduced the volume and
cellularity of the thymic cortex, resulting in a decrease in the
cortical-to-medullary ratio. Treatment reduced (P = 0.046) the number of
thymocytes expressing the B-cell antigen (CD20) and marginally lowered (P =
0.067) the number expressing the T-cell antigen (CD3) in the thymic medulla. In
the spleens of treated animals, periarterial lymphatic sheaths were less
prominent on microscopic examination, and there were marginally fewer (P = 0.064)
CD3+ cells. Numbers of CD20+ lymphocytes in the peripheral white pulp of the
spleen and in the germinal centers of the lymph nodes, or CD3+ cells in the
paracortex and germinal centers of the lymph nodes, were not altered by
treatment.
CONCLUSION: Neonatal treatment with a GnRH antagonist may alter maturational
processes for B and T cells in the thymus and spleen of the marmoset and may
deprive the immune system of its normal sensitivity to GnRH at a potentially
critical time in development.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.1998.tb00362.x 
PMID: 9553650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3592. Arch Virol. 1998;143(2):213-25.

The hemagglutinin of recent measles virus isolates induces cell fusion in a
marmoset cell line, but not in other CD46-positive human and monkey cell lines,
when expressed together with the F protein.

Tanaka K(1), Xie M, Yanagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka,
Japan.

Measles virus (MV) is efficiently isolated from patients with measles by using
B95a cells, a marmoset B cell line. Recent wild-type MV strains isolated using
B95a cells did not produce cytopathic effects in any of CD46+ primate cell lines 
examined (except B95a cells), nor did they induce downregulation of CD46.
Transfection of the hemagglutinin (H) and fusion (F) genes of the Edmonston
strain of MV produced syncytia in HeLa, Cos and B95a cells. By contrast, the
expression of the H gene from the two wild-type strains, together with the F gene
of the Edmonston strain, resulted in syncytium production in B95a cells, but not 
in HeLa and Cos cells. Cocultivation of Cos cells expressing the wild-type H
protein and the Edmonston strain F protein with B95a cells, but not with HeLa,
Jurkat or BJAB cells, generated large syncytia. The results suggest that these
recent MV isolates may use a molecule other than CD46 as the cellular receptor or
require another coreceptor to infect cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s007050050281 
PMID: 9541608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

