

3592. Arch Virol. 1998;143(2):213-25.

The hemagglutinin of recent measles virus isolates induces cell fusion in a
marmoset cell line, but not in other CD46-positive human and monkey cell lines,
when expressed together with the F protein.

Tanaka K(1), Xie M, Yanagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka,
Japan.

Measles virus (MV) is efficiently isolated from patients with measles by using
B95a cells, a marmoset B cell line. Recent wild-type MV strains isolated using
B95a cells did not produce cytopathic effects in any of CD46+ primate cell lines 
examined (except B95a cells), nor did they induce downregulation of CD46.
Transfection of the hemagglutinin (H) and fusion (F) genes of the Edmonston
strain of MV produced syncytia in HeLa, Cos and B95a cells. By contrast, the
expression of the H gene from the two wild-type strains, together with the F gene
of the Edmonston strain, resulted in syncytium production in B95a cells, but not 
in HeLa and Cos cells. Cocultivation of Cos cells expressing the wild-type H
protein and the Edmonston strain F protein with B95a cells, but not with HeLa,
Jurkat or BJAB cells, generated large syncytia. The results suggest that these
recent MV isolates may use a molecule other than CD46 as the cellular receptor or
require another coreceptor to infect cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s007050050281 
PMID: 9541608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3593. J Comp Neurol. 1998 Apr 6;393(2):196-209.

Horizontal cell connections with short wavelength-sensitive cones in the retina: 
a comparison between New World and Old World primates.

Chan TL(1), Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Recent studies in the Old World macaque monkey have shown that the two horizontal
cell types H1 and H2 differ with respect to their connections to short
wavelength-sensitive (SWS) cones. We wanted to establish whether this pattern of 
connectivity is common to all primates. The connections of horizontal cells with 
SWS cones were studied in the retinas of two species of New World (marmoset and
tamarin) and two species of Old World (orangutan and chimpanzee) primates by
using a double-labelling technique. Horizontal cells were labelled with DiI and
then photoconverted; SWS cones were labelled immunocytochemically. The marmoset
shows a sex-linked polymorphism of colour vision: All males are dichromats,
whereas most females are trichromats. In contrast, Old World primates are usually
trichromats. Our results show that the horizontal cells of both New World and Old
World primates have a comparable pattern of connectivity with SWS cones and thus 
indicate that the wiring of horizontal cells with SWS cones does not differ
between dichromats and trichromats and is common to all primates. The H1 cells
make no or only sparse contact with SWS cones. In marmoset, H1 cells have on
average 0.8% of their dendritic terminals at SWS cones. The H2 cells contact all 
SWS cones in their dendritic field. In marmoset, H2 cells have on average 11.8%
of their dendritic terminals at SWS cones. The axon of H2 cells contacts SWS
cones but presumably also contacts other cones.


PMID: 9548697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

