

3594. Ann Neurol. 1998 Apr;43(4):507-13.

Adenosine A2A antagonist: a novel antiparkinsonian agent that does not provoke
dyskinesia in parkinsonian monkeys.

Kanda T(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Pearce RK, Nakamura J, Kase H, Kuwana Y, Jenner
P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Biomedical Sciences Division,
King's College London, UK.

Treatment of Parkinson's disease with L-dopa therapy leads to long-term
complications, including loss of drug efficacy and the onset of dyskinesia.
Adenosine A2A receptors in striatum are selectively localized to GABAergic output
neurons of the striato-pallidal pathway and may avoid such problems. The novel
adenosine A2A receptor antagonist KW-6002 has been examined for antiparkinsonian 
activity in MPTP-treated primates. Oral administration of KW-6002 reversed motor 
disability in MPTP-treated common marmosets in a dose-dependent manner. However, 
KW-6002 only modestly increased overall locomotor activity and did not cause
abnormal movement, such as stereotypy. The ability of KW-6002 to reverse motor
disability was maintained on repeated daily administration for 21 days, and no
tolerance was observed. KW-6002 induced little or no dyskinesia in MPTP-treated
primates previously primed to exhibit dyskinesia by prior exposure to L-dopa.
These results suggest that selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonists represent
a new class of antiparkinsonian agents that improve disability without producing 
hyperactivity and without inducing dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410430415 
PMID: 9546333  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3595. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Mar 17;95(6):3168-71.

Proliferation of granule cell precursors in the dentate gyrus of adult monkeys is
diminished by stress.

Gould E(1), Tanapat P, McEwen BS, Fl√ºgge G, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Green Hall, Princeton, NJ
08544, USA. goulde@princeton.edu

Although granule cells continue to be added to the dentate gyrus of adult rats
and tree shrews, this phenomenon has not been demonstrated in the dentate gyrus
of adult primates. To determine whether neurons are produced in the dentate gyrus
of adult primates, adult marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were injected with
BrdU and perfused 2 hr or 3 weeks later. BrdU is a thymidine analog that is
incorporated into proliferating cells during S phase. A substantial number of
cells in the dentate gyrus of adult monkeys incorporated BrdU and approximately
80% of these cells had morphological characteristics of granule neurons and
expressed a neuronal marker by the 3-week time point. Previous studies suggest
that the proliferation of granule cell precursors in the adult dentate gyrus can 
be inhibited by stress in rats and tree shrews. To test whether an aversive
experience has a similar effect on cell proliferation in the primate brain, adult
marmoset monkeys were exposed to a resident-intruder model of stress. After 1 hr 
in this condition, the intruder monkeys were injected with BrdU and perfused 2 hr
later. The number of proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus of the intruder
monkeys was compared with that of unstressed control monkeys. We found that a
single exposure to this stressful experience resulted in a significant reduction 
in the number of these proliferating cells. Our results suggest that neurons are 
produced in the dentate gyrus of adult monkeys and that the rate of precursor
cell proliferation can be affected by a stressful experience.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.6.3168 
PMCID: PMC19713
PMID: 9501234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

