

3596. J Neurosci Res. 1998 Mar 15;51(6):723-34.

Axonal regrowth through a collagen guidance channel bridging spinal cord to the
avulsed C6 roots: functional recovery in primates with brachial plexus injury.

Liu S(1), Bodjarian N, Langlois O, Bonnard AS, Boisset N, Peulvé P, Saïd G, Tadié
M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital of Bicêtre, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.

Intraspinal implantation of a collagen guidance channel (CGC) to promote axon
regeneration was investigated in marmosets with brachial plexus injury. After
avulsion of the right C5, C6 and C7 spinal roots, a CGC containing (group B) or
not (group A) a nerve segment, or a nerve graft (group C), was ventro-laterally
implanted into the cord to bridge the ventral horn and the avulsed C6 roots. No
spinal cord dysfunction was observed following surgery. Two months later, the
postoperative flaccid paralysis of the lesioned arm improved. In five months, a
normal electromyogram of the affected biceps muscle was recorded in all repaired 
animals. Motor evoked potentials were obtained with a mean amplitude of 13.37 +/-
13.66 microV in group A, 13.21 +/- 5.16 microV in group B and 37.14 +/- 35.16
microV in group C. The force of biceps muscle contraction was 27.33 +/- 20.03 g
(group A), 24.33 +/- 17.03 g (group B) and 37.38 +/- 21.70 g (group C).
Retrograde tracing by horseradish peroxidase showed labelled motoneurons
ipsilaterally located in the C5 and C6 ventral horn, nearby the implantation
site. The mean labelled neurons was 32.33 +/- 21.13, 219.33 +/- 176.29 and 64.33 
+/- 23.54 in group A, B and C respectively. Histological analysis presented
numerous myelinated and unmyelinated regenerating axons in the implant of these
animals. Statistical analysis did not show significant difference among the three
repaired groups. Our results indicate that spinal neurons can regenerate through 
a CGC to avulsed nerve roots and induce motor recovery in primates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-4547(19980315)51:6<723::AID-JNR6>3.0.CO;2-D 
PMID: 9545086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3597. Mov Disord. 1998 Mar;13(2):234-41.

De novo administration of ropinirole and bromocriptine induces less dyskinesia
than L-dopa in the MPTP-treated marmoset.

Pearce RK(1), Banerji T, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Biomedical Sciences Division,
King's College , London, England.

In contrast to levodopa (L-dopa), de novo administration of the D2-like receptor 
agonist bromocriptine to patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) or to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated subhuman primates is 
not associated with the onset of significant dyskinesia. We now compare the
ability of the novel D2-like selective dopamine agonist ropinirole with that of
bromocriptine and L-dopa to induce dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets.
MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with placebo, L-dopa plus carbidopa,
ropinirole, or bromocriptine daily for 30 days (n = 4 per group) in doses that
were titrated to similarly increase locomotion and improve motor disability.
L-dopa rapidly induced dyskinesia of moderate to severe intensity, whereas
ropinirole and bromocriptine produced mild dyskinesia over the course of the
study that was significantly less severe than in the L-dopa-treated group (p <
0.05). However, in a separate group of marmosets previously primed with L-dopa to
exhibit dyskinesia, ropinirole administration elicited severe dyskinesias
comparable with that of L-dopa in a dose-dependent fashion. Ropinirole, in common
with bromocriptine, has a lesser tendency than L-dopa to produce dyskinesia while
similarly improving motor performance in drug-naive MPTP-treated marmosets.
However, in common with other dopamine agonists, ropinirole will elicit
comparable dyskinesia once L-dopa priming has occurred. These results predict a
similar response to ropinirole and other long-acting dopamine agonists in
L-dopa-naive patients with PD and emphasize the importance of avoiding initial
dyskinesia induction through early use of dopamine agonist drugs.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870130207 
PMID: 9539335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

