

3597. Mov Disord. 1998 Mar;13(2):234-41.

De novo administration of ropinirole and bromocriptine induces less dyskinesia
than L-dopa in the MPTP-treated marmoset.

Pearce RK(1), Banerji T, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Biomedical Sciences Division,
King's College , London, England.

In contrast to levodopa (L-dopa), de novo administration of the D2-like receptor 
agonist bromocriptine to patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) or to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated subhuman primates is 
not associated with the onset of significant dyskinesia. We now compare the
ability of the novel D2-like selective dopamine agonist ropinirole with that of
bromocriptine and L-dopa to induce dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets.
MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with placebo, L-dopa plus carbidopa,
ropinirole, or bromocriptine daily for 30 days (n = 4 per group) in doses that
were titrated to similarly increase locomotion and improve motor disability.
L-dopa rapidly induced dyskinesia of moderate to severe intensity, whereas
ropinirole and bromocriptine produced mild dyskinesia over the course of the
study that was significantly less severe than in the L-dopa-treated group (p <
0.05). However, in a separate group of marmosets previously primed with L-dopa to
exhibit dyskinesia, ropinirole administration elicited severe dyskinesias
comparable with that of L-dopa in a dose-dependent fashion. Ropinirole, in common
with bromocriptine, has a lesser tendency than L-dopa to produce dyskinesia while
similarly improving motor performance in drug-naive MPTP-treated marmosets.
However, in common with other dopamine agonists, ropinirole will elicit
comparable dyskinesia once L-dopa priming has occurred. These results predict a
similar response to ropinirole and other long-acting dopamine agonists in
L-dopa-naive patients with PD and emphasize the importance of avoiding initial
dyskinesia induction through early use of dopamine agonist drugs.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870130207 
PMID: 9539335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3598. Science. 1998 Mar 27;279(5359):2041-2.

No-new-neurons dogma loses ground.

Barinaga M.

DOI: 10.1126/science.279.5359.2041 
PMID: 9537913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

