

3602. J Virol. 1998 Apr;72(4):2607-14.

Mutation of the Lck-binding motif of Tip enhances lymphoid cell activation by
herpesvirus saimiri.

Duboise SM(1), Lee H, Guo J, Choi JK, Czajak S, Simon M, Desrosiers RC, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

The proline-rich SH3-binding (SH3B) motif of the tyrosine kinase-interacting
protein (Tip) of herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) is required for binding to the
cellular Src family kinase Lck. We constructed a mutant form of HVS in which
prolines in the SH3B motif of Tip were altered to alanines. This mutant form of
Tip was incapable of binding to Lck. The mutant virus, HVS/Tip mSH3B, retained
its ability to immortalize common marmoset lymphocytes in culture. In fact,
common marmoset lymphocytes immortalized by the HVS/Tip mSH3B mutant displayed
increased expression of HLA-DR lymphocyte activation marker, an altered pattern
of tyrosine phosphorylation, increased expression of the tyrosine kinase Lyn, and
a shift in electrophoretic mobility of Lck compared to cells immortalized by
wild-type HVS. Experimental infection of common marmosets resulted in fulminant
lymphoma with both HVS/Tip mSH3B and wild-type HVS. However, HVS/Tip mSH3B
produced greater infiltration of affected organs by proliferating lymphoid cells 
compared to wild-type HVS. These results demonstrate that Tip binding to Lck is
not necessary for transformation and that abrogation of Tip binding to Lck alters
the characteristics of transformed cells and the severity of the pathologic
lesions.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.4.2607-2614.1998 
PMCID: PMC109695
PMID: 9525577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3603. Physiol Behav. 1998 Feb 15;63(4):591-9.

Concurrent monitoring of EEG and performance in the common marmoset: a
methodological approach.

Pearce PC(1), Crofts HS, Muggleton NG, Scott EA.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Countermeasures Department, CBD Porton Down, Salisbury, Wilts, United 
Kingdom.

A model has been developed in a nonhuman primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), which should enable the study of long term effects of compounds with
potentially psychoactive properties. The technique facilitates concurrent
monitoring of both behavioral and electrophysiological parameters while animals
remain in their home cages. Subjects were trained to perform tests from a
neuropsychological test battery (The Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated 
Battery, CANTAB) in which they learned to discriminate between pairs of stimuli
presented on a touch sensitive computer screen. Single channel cortical
electroencephalography (EEG) by radiotelemetry was simultaneously recorded while 
behavioral testing took place.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(97)00494-0 
PMID: 9523903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

