

361. PLoS Comput Biol. 2020 Feb 18;16(2):e1007627. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007627. 
eCollection 2020 Feb.

The role of adaptation in generating monotonic rate codes in auditory cortex.

Lee JH(1)(2), Wang X(1), Bendor D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, United States
of America.
(2)Institute of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Experimental Psychology, 
University College London, London, United Kingdom.

In primary auditory cortex, slowly repeated acoustic events are represented
temporally by the stimulus-locked activity of single neurons. Single-unit studies
in awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have shown that a sub-population of these
neurons also monotonically increase or decrease their average discharge rate
during stimulus presentation for higher repetition rates. Building on a
computational single-neuron model that generates stimulus-locked responses with
stimulus evoked excitation followed by strong inhibition, we find that
stimulus-evoked short-term depression is sufficient to produce synchronized
monotonic positive and negative responses to slowly repeated stimuli. By
exploring model robustness and comparing it to other models for adaptation to
such stimuli, we conclude that short-term depression best explains our
observations in single-unit recordings in awake marmosets. Together, our results 
show how a simple biophysical mechanism in single neurons can generate
complementary neural codes for acoustic stimuli.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007627 
PMCID: PMC7048304
PMID: 32069272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


362. J Physiol. 2020 Apr;598(8):1425-1426. doi: 10.1113/JP279556. Epub 2020 Mar 5.

Fractal brain dynamics: from Mandelbrot to marmosets.

Roisen DA, Shew WL.

Comment on
    J Physiol. 2020 Apr;598(8):1551-1571.

DOI: 10.1113/JP279556 
PMID: 32060921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

