

3610. Gene. 1997 Dec 31;205(1-2):59-71.

Sequences of the primate epsilon-globin gene: implications for systematics of the
marmosets and other New World primates.

Porter CA(1), Czelusniak J, Schneider H, Schneider MP, Sampaio I, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Wayne State University School of
Medicine, Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

Sequences of the epsilon-globin gene were determined for five species of
marmosets, along with approximately 2 kb of 5' flanking sequence. An analysis of 
these data, compared with those of other primates strongly supports the
classification of Callithrix jacchus and C. geoffroyi into the jacchus group, and
C. argentata and C. mauesi into the argentata group. The pygmy marmoset, formerly
identified as Cebuella pygmaea joined strongly to the argentata group, indicating
that without the pygmy marmoset the genus Callithrix would be paraphyletic. Our
data support recent studies which indicate that C. pygmaea should be included in 
the genus Callithrix. Relationships among other primates were as indicated by
previous studies of epsilon-globin sequences. Divergence times were estimated
according to a local molecular clock. These calculations indicated the divergence
of C. mauesi and C. argentata to be approximately 1.6-1.9 Myr (million years
ago), and the most recent common ancestor of the marmosets to be between 4.5 and 
4.7 Myr. The latter estimate corresponds well to the date of 4.6 Myr calculated
from an independent data set.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(97)00473-3 
PMID: 9461380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3611. J Gen Virol. 1998 Jan;79 ( Pt 1):41-5.

Genomic analysis of two GB virus A variants isolated from captive monkeys.

Erker JC(1), Desai SM, Leary TP, Chalmers ML, Montes CC, Mushahwar IK.

Author information: 
(1)Virus Discovery Group, Experimental Biology Research, Abbott Laboratories,
North Chicago, IL 60064, USA. James.Erker@add.ssw.abbott.com

The recent isolation of GB viruses A and B from GB agent infected tamarins and
their lack of involvement in human hepatitis has sparked interest in the origin
of these viruses. Several healthy non-human primate species have been shown to
harbour sequences 52-79% identical to the GBV-A 5' nontranslated region. In this 
paper we report the near genome length sequence of GBV-Amx 70047 and GBV-Atri
1122. These sequences support previous observations about the genomic
organization of GBV-A and provide insight into the genomic variability within
this virus genus. Although the GBV-A variant polyproteins possess many motifs
conserved between other members of the Flaviviridae, they do not encode a basic
core-like protein. Amino acid sequence comparisons and phylogenetic analysis
demonstrate variability within the GBV-A genus similar to that observed between
hepatitis C virus (HCV) types. However, genomic organization and disease
association demonstrate a closer evolutionary relationship to GBV-C than to HCV.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-79-1-41 
PMID: 9460920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

