

3611. J Gen Virol. 1998 Jan;79 ( Pt 1):41-5.

Genomic analysis of two GB virus A variants isolated from captive monkeys.

Erker JC(1), Desai SM, Leary TP, Chalmers ML, Montes CC, Mushahwar IK.

Author information: 
(1)Virus Discovery Group, Experimental Biology Research, Abbott Laboratories,
North Chicago, IL 60064, USA. James.Erker@add.ssw.abbott.com

The recent isolation of GB viruses A and B from GB agent infected tamarins and
their lack of involvement in human hepatitis has sparked interest in the origin
of these viruses. Several healthy non-human primate species have been shown to
harbour sequences 52-79% identical to the GBV-A 5' nontranslated region. In this 
paper we report the near genome length sequence of GBV-Amx 70047 and GBV-Atri
1122. These sequences support previous observations about the genomic
organization of GBV-A and provide insight into the genomic variability within
this virus genus. Although the GBV-A variant polyproteins possess many motifs
conserved between other members of the Flaviviridae, they do not encode a basic
core-like protein. Amino acid sequence comparisons and phylogenetic analysis
demonstrate variability within the GBV-A genus similar to that observed between
hepatitis C virus (HCV) types. However, genomic organization and disease
association demonstrate a closer evolutionary relationship to GBV-C than to HCV.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-79-1-41 
PMID: 9460920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3612. Brain Res. 1997 Nov 7;774(1-2):211-5.

Rapid changes in brainstem maps of adult primates after peripheral injury.

Xu J(1), Wall JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699,
USA.

Cerebral cortical maps in adult primates reorganize within minutes-hours after
peripheral injuries, but subcortical versus intracortical contributions to this
rapid reorganization remain controversial. The present results show that injury
of nerves to the hands of adult monkeys triggers rapid (minutes-hours) changes in
maps of the hand in the brainstem main cuneate nucleus. These findings suggest
that peripheral injury causes an initial concurrent reorganization of brainstem
and cortical substrates and that early sensory changes emerge from reorganization
involving multiple central levels.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)81706-4 
PMID: 9452211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

