

3613. Berl Munch Tierarztl Wochenschr. 1997 Dec;110(11-12):427-30.

[Herpesvirus infections in free living black tufted ear marmosets (Callithrix
penicillata, E. Geoffroyi 1812) at the State Park of Serra da Tiririca, Niter처i, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil].

[Article in German]

Bruno SF(1), Liebhold MM, M채tz-Rensing K, Romao MA, Didier A, Brandes F, Bressan 
AC, Kaup FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal Fluminense (UFF)-Niter처i, Rio de Janeiro, Brasilien.

The mortal cause of black-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix penicillata), living in
a conservation unit of State Park of Serra da Tiririca-Niter처i-RJ, Brasilien, has
been investigated in 1995 based on different examinations realized in one animal.
After clinical, light and electron microscopic investigations, herpesvirus
infection was found to be the etiological agent of the disease.


PMID: 9451841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3614. J Virol. 1998 Feb;72(2):1308-13.

STP and Tip are essential for herpesvirus saimiri oncogenicity.

Duboise SM(1), Guo J, Czajak S, Desrosiers RC, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

Mutant forms of herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) subgroup C strain 488 with deletions in
either STP-C488 or Tip were constructed. The transforming potentials of the HVS
mutants were tested in cell culture and in common marmosets. Parental HVS
subgroup C strain 488 immortalized common marmoset T lymphocytes in vitro to
interleukin-2-independent growth, but neither of the deletion mutants produced
such growth transformation. Wild-type HVS produced fatal lymphoma within 19 to 20
days of experimental infection of common marmosets, while HVS deltaSTP-C488 and
HVS deltaTip were nononcogenic. Virus was repeatedly isolated from the peripheral
blood of marmosets infected with mutant virus for more than 5 months. These
results demonstrate that STP-C488 and Tip are not required for replication or
persistence, but each is essential for transformation in cell culture and for
lymphoma induction in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.2.1308-1313.1998 
PMCID: PMC124609
PMID: 9445031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

