

3614. J Virol. 1998 Feb;72(2):1308-13.

STP and Tip are essential for herpesvirus saimiri oncogenicity.

Duboise SM(1), Guo J, Czajak S, Desrosiers RC, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

Mutant forms of herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) subgroup C strain 488 with deletions in
either STP-C488 or Tip were constructed. The transforming potentials of the HVS
mutants were tested in cell culture and in common marmosets. Parental HVS
subgroup C strain 488 immortalized common marmoset T lymphocytes in vitro to
interleukin-2-independent growth, but neither of the deletion mutants produced
such growth transformation. Wild-type HVS produced fatal lymphoma within 19 to 20
days of experimental infection of common marmosets, while HVS deltaSTP-C488 and
HVS deltaTip were nononcogenic. Virus was repeatedly isolated from the peripheral
blood of marmosets infected with mutant virus for more than 5 months. These
results demonstrate that STP-C488 and Tip are not required for replication or
persistence, but each is essential for transformation in cell culture and for
lymphoma induction in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.2.1308-1313.1998 
PMCID: PMC124609
PMID: 9445031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3615. Cell Transplant. 1997 Nov-Dec;6(6):557-69.

Survival of nigral grafts within the striatum of marmosets with 6-OHDA lesions
depends critically on donor embryo age.

Annett LE(1), Torres EM, Clarke DJ, Ishida Y, Barker RA, Ridley RM, Baker HF,
Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

The study examined the importance of embryonic donor age for the survival of
nigral grafts in 6-OHDA-lesioned marmosets. The issue as to whether donor age is 
critical for the survival of nigral grafts in primates is controversial, because 
several early reports suggested that relatively old tissue could survive
transplantation and produce functional benefits in monkeys, in contrast to the
restrictive time dependence observed in rodents. Embryonic marmoset donors
embryos of three different ages were employed: 1) E74 (Carnegie stage 18-19); 2) 
E83-84 (Carnegie stage 23+); 3) E92-93 (foetal period). The nigral neurons
derived from the ventral mesencephalon in the two older donor age groups did not 
survive well when grafted to the striatum of adult marmosets with unilateral
6-OHDA lesions. Although a few tyrosine hydroxylase (TH+) neurons could be
identified by immunohistochemistry at graft sites in all recipients in older
donor age groups, the numbers of surviving neurons in these were small, on
average typically less than 100 TH+ cells. These small grafts were not sufficient
to affect amphetamine-induced rotation. In contrast, many more TH+ cells
typically survived transplantation in the recipients of graft tissue derived from
the youngest donors and amphetamine-induced rotation was significantly reduced in
this group alone. The time course and extent of the reduction in rotation was
remarkably similar to that observed in previous marmoset nigral graft studies,
confirming the utility of amphetamine-induced rotation as a sensitive and
reliable indicator of nigral graft function in this species. Considering these
results and other recent evidence from monkey to monkey, human to rat, and human 
to human graft studies, the survival of embryonic nigral tissues derived from
primate donors transplanted into the striatum does appear to be critically
dependent on the age of the donor tissue.

DOI: 10.1016/s0963-6897(97)00079-1 
PMID: 9440865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

