

3615. Cell Transplant. 1997 Nov-Dec;6(6):557-69.

Survival of nigral grafts within the striatum of marmosets with 6-OHDA lesions
depends critically on donor embryo age.

Annett LE(1), Torres EM, Clarke DJ, Ishida Y, Barker RA, Ridley RM, Baker HF,
Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

The study examined the importance of embryonic donor age for the survival of
nigral grafts in 6-OHDA-lesioned marmosets. The issue as to whether donor age is 
critical for the survival of nigral grafts in primates is controversial, because 
several early reports suggested that relatively old tissue could survive
transplantation and produce functional benefits in monkeys, in contrast to the
restrictive time dependence observed in rodents. Embryonic marmoset donors
embryos of three different ages were employed: 1) E74 (Carnegie stage 18-19); 2) 
E83-84 (Carnegie stage 23+); 3) E92-93 (foetal period). The nigral neurons
derived from the ventral mesencephalon in the two older donor age groups did not 
survive well when grafted to the striatum of adult marmosets with unilateral
6-OHDA lesions. Although a few tyrosine hydroxylase (TH+) neurons could be
identified by immunohistochemistry at graft sites in all recipients in older
donor age groups, the numbers of surviving neurons in these were small, on
average typically less than 100 TH+ cells. These small grafts were not sufficient
to affect amphetamine-induced rotation. In contrast, many more TH+ cells
typically survived transplantation in the recipients of graft tissue derived from
the youngest donors and amphetamine-induced rotation was significantly reduced in
this group alone. The time course and extent of the reduction in rotation was
remarkably similar to that observed in previous marmoset nigral graft studies,
confirming the utility of amphetamine-induced rotation as a sensitive and
reliable indicator of nigral graft function in this species. Considering these
results and other recent evidence from monkey to monkey, human to rat, and human 
to human graft studies, the survival of embryonic nigral tissues derived from
primate donors transplanted into the striatum does appear to be critically
dependent on the age of the donor tissue.

DOI: 10.1016/s0963-6897(97)00079-1 
PMID: 9440865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3616. Rev Bras Biol. 1997 Nov;57(4):563-70.

Hand preference during behavioral tests and spontaneous activity in two species
of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata).

Guerra RF(1), da Silveira NL, Bernardi N, Legal EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Departamento de Psicologia,
Florian√≥polis, Brazil. rfguerra@cfh.ufsc.br

Hand preference in two adult C. jacchus (one male and one female) and five C.
penicillata (three adult females and two 70-day-old male and female infants) was 
examined in this study. Animals were housed in large wire mesh cages and daily
tested twice during 40 consecutive days in 15-minute experimental sessions. Tests
were carried out with dog food pellets and were as follows: 1) food taking from a
glass cylinder (12 cm long x 5 cm diameter), 2) food taking from an opaque
plastic flask (11 cm long x 9.5 cm diameter) behind wire mesh, 3) food taking
under the cage floor and 4) spontaneous activity (food manipulation,
self-grooming and scratching behavior, and grasping wire mesh). It was observed
that 1) subjects exhibit a high manual ability in all testing conditions, 2) hand
biases occurred, but the subjects either reversed hand preference or the
preference was ambiguous as the performances are examined in a longitudinal
perspective, 3) hand biases were clearly more visible in test 1, which may be due
to the complexity of this task itself, 4) hand biases were not similar in all
testing conditions--i.e., subjects were left--in one test and right-handed in
another-, and 5) the main results were very similar in both C. jacchus and C.
penicillata and seem to be not dependent on either sex or age.


PMID: 9440356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

