

3617. J Med Primatol. 1997 Dec;26(6):299-306.

Ultrasonographic and hormonal monitoring of pregnancy in the saddle back tamarin,
Saguinus fuscicollis.

Kuederling I(1), Heistermann M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Ultrasonography was used in six saddle back tamarin females (Saguinus
fuscicollis) to diagnose pregnancy, monitor the patterns of uterine growth and
embryonic/foetal development and examine the incidence loss of single
embryos/foetuses. Pregnancy was reliably diagnosed 17 days after conception, 10
days earlier than by plasma progesterone measurement. The patterns of uterine and
embryonic/foetal growth paralleled those reported for the common marmoset,
including a delay in embryonic development. The results support the hypothesis of
retardation of organogenesis in most callitrichid species. Individual embryos
could be reliably identified from day 50 of pregnancy; a loss of single
embryos/foetuses after this stage did not occur. All pregnancies were carried to 
term, resulting in five times twins and one singleton. The smaller litter size
compared to the common marmoset may be due to loss of single embryos at earlier
stages of pregnancy or to a lower ovulation rate.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1997.tb00058.x 
PMID: 9438223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3618. J Med Primatol. 1997 Oct;26(5):241-7.

Nonsurgical embryo transfer in the common marmoset monkey.

Marshall VS(1), Kalishman J, Thomson JA.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

A technique for nonsurgical embryo transfer in common marmosets was developed.
Transfers were either synchronous (ST) or asynchronous (AT). Synchronous
transfers (embryo donor and the embryo recipient ovulated on the same day) were
performed 5 to 8 days post-ovulation. Asynchronous transfers (embryo donor had
ovulated at least 2 days before the embryo recipient) were performed when the
recipient was 2 to 4 days post-ovulation (donor was 6 to 8 days post-ovulation). 
Four pregnancies from nine transfers (44%) were established by AT, and three
pregnancies were carried to term. Only 1 of 11 transfers (9%) from ST resulted in
a pregnancy, which was lost by Day 40 of gestation. Significantly more infants
were born from AT (6 infants from 17 embryos; 35%) than from ST (0 infants from
22 embryos; 0%; p < 0.005). This technique allows experimental analysis of
primate postimplantation development and provides a tool for conservation of
endangered Callithrichid species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1997.tb00218.x 
PMID: 9437262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

