

3618. J Med Primatol. 1997 Oct;26(5):241-7.

Nonsurgical embryo transfer in the common marmoset monkey.

Marshall VS(1), Kalishman J, Thomson JA.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

A technique for nonsurgical embryo transfer in common marmosets was developed.
Transfers were either synchronous (ST) or asynchronous (AT). Synchronous
transfers (embryo donor and the embryo recipient ovulated on the same day) were
performed 5 to 8 days post-ovulation. Asynchronous transfers (embryo donor had
ovulated at least 2 days before the embryo recipient) were performed when the
recipient was 2 to 4 days post-ovulation (donor was 6 to 8 days post-ovulation). 
Four pregnancies from nine transfers (44%) were established by AT, and three
pregnancies were carried to term. Only 1 of 11 transfers (9%) from ST resulted in
a pregnancy, which was lost by Day 40 of gestation. Significantly more infants
were born from AT (6 infants from 17 embryos; 35%) than from ST (0 infants from
22 embryos; 0%; p < 0.005). This technique allows experimental analysis of
primate postimplantation development and provides a tool for conservation of
endangered Callithrichid species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1997.tb00218.x 
PMID: 9437262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3619. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1997 Dec;58(4):947-53.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model for neuroleptic-induced acute
dystonia.

Fukuoka T(1), Nakano M, Kohda A, Okuno Y, Matsuo M.

Author information: 
(1)Environmental Health Science Laboratory, Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd., Osaka,
Japan.

To examine whether acute dystonia is induced by neuroleptic treatment, common
marmosets were treated with haloperidol orally twice a week over 25 weeks until
dystonic behavior was elicited. Movement disorders such as acute dystonia were
observed 6 weeks after the initial treatment, and had appeared in all treated
animals by 25 weeks. Once these movement disorders were induced, they
consistently reappeared after further treatment with haloperidol, and once
haloperidol dosing was discontinued, the episodes vanished. Then, various
neuroleptic drugs (bromperidol, chlorpromazine, risperidone thioridazine,
sulpiride, tiapride, and clozapine) or a nonneuroleptic drug (diazepam) were
administered orally instead of haloperidol in the above animals. All the
neuroleptic drugs except for clozapine elicited similar abnormal behavior, while 
diazepam failed to induce any dystonia. An anticholinergic drug, trihexyphenidyl,
which is known to reduce acute dystonia in patients, was also given orally to the
above haloperidol-sensitized animals, followed by further treatment with
haloperidol 30 min later. This clearly suppressed the induction of dystonia by
haloperidol. The similarity between these findings for haloperidol-pretreated
common marmosets and clinical findings suggests that the present model is useful 
for predicting the potential of antipsychotics to induce acute dystonia in
humans.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(97)00314-6 
PMID: 9408199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

