

3623. Virology. 1997 Nov 24;238(2):344-52.

Epstein-Barr virus induces GM-CSF synthesis by monocytes: effect on EBV-induced
IL-1 and IL-1 receptor antagonist production in neutrophils.

Roberge CJ(1), Larochelle B, Rola-Pleszczynski M, Gosselin J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Viral Immunology, CHUL, Laval University, Quebec, Canada.

Neutrophils play an important role in the control of viral infections by
releasing a variety of potent agents. We previously demonstrated that
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) binds to human neutrophils and stimulates cytokine
synthesis including interleukin-1 (IL-1) and IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra).
Since neutrophil functions are known to be modulated by the priming effect of
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), we therefore
investigated the cellular source of GM-CSF synthesis following treatment of
leukocytes with EBV and the effect of GM-CSF on the production of IL-1, IL-1Ra,
and superoxide by EBV-treated neutrophils. In enriched-cell populations, only
monocytes were found to produce GM-CSF in response to EBV, which was maximal
after 12 h of incubation. The results obtained with UV-irradiated particles or
EBV neutralized with monoclonal antibody 72A1 suggest that contact between the
cell and the gp350 of the viral envelope is sufficient to induce the release of
GM-CSF. On the other hand, GM-CSF differentially upregulated EBV-induced IL-1 and
IL-1Ra production by neutrophils. Pretreatment of neutrophils with GM-CSF prior
to EBV activation synergistically enhanced the production of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 
beta, but only marginally affected IL-1Ra synthesis. In addition, GM-CSF was also
found to synergistically enhance the superoxide production by neutrophils in
response to EBV. Molecular analysis showed that GM-CSF did not alter the IL-1
beta and IL-1Ra mRNA synthesis induced by EBV, suggesting that GM-CSF could act
at a posttranslational level. Local production of GM-CSF by monocytes in tissues 
invaded by EBV could serve to potentiate the host defense mechanisms directed
toward the destruction of the infectious virus.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1997.8852 
PMID: 9400607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3624. Mov Disord. 1997 Nov;12(6):935-45.

Entacapone enhances levodopa-induced reversal of motor disability in MPTP-treated
common marmosets.

Smith LA(1), Gordin A, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, England,
U.K.

Oral administration of levodopa (L-dopa) (2.5-25.0 mg/kg) plus carbidopa (12.5
mg/kg p.o.) to MPTP-treated common marmosets produced a dose-related increase in 
locomotor activity and a corresponding decrease in motor disability. Pretreatment
with the peripheral COMT inhibitor entacapone (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) enhanced the
intensity and duration of the increase in locomotor activity and the reversal of 
motor disability produced by a threshold dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus
carbidopa. By contrast, entacapone pretreatment did not potentiate the increased 
locomotor activity or reversal of motor disability produced by a near-maximal
dose of L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa. The effects of entacapone
(5.0-25.0 mg/kg p.o.) were dose related, with doses of > 12.5 mg/kg tending to
produce less potentiation of L-dopa's effects compared to lower doses.
Pretreatment with entacapone (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) without carbidopa caused a
short-lasting enhancement of L-dopa's (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) action, whereas
pretreatment with carbidopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) alone had a more dramatic effect.
However, pretreatment with both carbidopa and entacapone produced the greatest
overall motor response. In conclusion, entacapone enhances the motor response
produced by a low-threshold dose of L-dopa plus carbidopa. However, optimization 
of both the dose of L-dopa and entacapone appears necessary to obtain the maximal
therapeutic response.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870120616 
PMID: 9399218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

