

3624. Mov Disord. 1997 Nov;12(6):935-45.

Entacapone enhances levodopa-induced reversal of motor disability in MPTP-treated
common marmosets.

Smith LA(1), Gordin A, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, England,
U.K.

Oral administration of levodopa (L-dopa) (2.5-25.0 mg/kg) plus carbidopa (12.5
mg/kg p.o.) to MPTP-treated common marmosets produced a dose-related increase in 
locomotor activity and a corresponding decrease in motor disability. Pretreatment
with the peripheral COMT inhibitor entacapone (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) enhanced the
intensity and duration of the increase in locomotor activity and the reversal of 
motor disability produced by a threshold dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus
carbidopa. By contrast, entacapone pretreatment did not potentiate the increased 
locomotor activity or reversal of motor disability produced by a near-maximal
dose of L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa. The effects of entacapone
(5.0-25.0 mg/kg p.o.) were dose related, with doses of > 12.5 mg/kg tending to
produce less potentiation of L-dopa's effects compared to lower doses.
Pretreatment with entacapone (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) without carbidopa caused a
short-lasting enhancement of L-dopa's (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) action, whereas
pretreatment with carbidopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) alone had a more dramatic effect.
However, pretreatment with both carbidopa and entacapone produced the greatest
overall motor response. In conclusion, entacapone enhances the motor response
produced by a low-threshold dose of L-dopa plus carbidopa. However, optimization 
of both the dose of L-dopa and entacapone appears necessary to obtain the maximal
therapeutic response.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870120616 
PMID: 9399218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3625. Curr Top Dev Biol. 1998;38:133-65.

Primate embryonic stem cells.

Thomson JA(1), Marshall VS.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

Primate embryonic stem (ES) cells are derived from preimplantation embryos, have 
a normal karyotype, and are capable of indefinite, undifferentiated
proliferation. Even after culture for more than a year, primate ES cells maintain
the potential to differentiate to trophoblast and derivatives of embryonic
endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm. In this review, we compare the characteristics 
of ES cell lines from two primate species, the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) and
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), with the characteristics of mouse ES
cells and human embryonal carcinoma cells. We also discuss the implications of
using primate ES cells to understand early human development and discuss the
practical and ethical implications for the understanding and treatment of human
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0070-2153(08)60246-x 
PMID: 9399078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

