

3625. Curr Top Dev Biol. 1998;38:133-65.

Primate embryonic stem cells.

Thomson JA(1), Marshall VS.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

Primate embryonic stem (ES) cells are derived from preimplantation embryos, have 
a normal karyotype, and are capable of indefinite, undifferentiated
proliferation. Even after culture for more than a year, primate ES cells maintain
the potential to differentiate to trophoblast and derivatives of embryonic
endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm. In this review, we compare the characteristics 
of ES cell lines from two primate species, the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) and
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), with the characteristics of mouse ES
cells and human embryonal carcinoma cells. We also discuss the implications of
using primate ES cells to understand early human development and discuss the
practical and ethical implications for the understanding and treatment of human
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0070-2153(08)60246-x 
PMID: 9399078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3626. J Med Chem. 1997 Nov 21;40(24):3979-85.

Viracept (nelfinavir mesylate, AG1343): a potent, orally bioavailable inhibitor
of HIV-1 protease.

Kaldor SW(1), Kalish VJ, Davies JF 2nd, Shetty BV, Fritz JE, Appelt K, Burgess
JA, Campanale KM, Chirgadze NY, Clawson DK, Dressman BA, Hatch SD, Khalil DA,
Kosa MB, Lubbehusen PP, Muesing MA, Patick AK, Reich SH, Su KS, Tatlock JH.

Author information: 
(1)Agouron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., San Diego, California 92121, USA.

Using a combination of iterative structure-based design and an analysis of oral
pharmacokinetics and antiviral activity, AG1343 (Viracept, nelfinavir mesylate), 
a nonpeptidic inhibitor of HIV-1 protease, was identified. AG1343 is a potent
enzyme inhibitor (Ki = 2 nM) and antiviral agent (HIV-1 ED50 = 14 nM). An X-ray
cocrystal structure of the enzyme-AG1343 complex reveals how the novel thiophenyl
ether and phenol-amide substituents of the inhibitor interact with the S1 and S2 
subsites of HIV-1 protease, respectively. In vivo studies indicate that AG1343 is
well absorbed orally in a variety of species and possesses favorable
pharmacokinetic properties in humans. AG1343 (Viracept) has recently been
approved for marketing for the treatment of AIDS.

DOI: 10.1021/jm9704098 
PMID: 9397180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

