

3628. Immunity. 1997 Nov;7(5):667-77.

Reversal of EBV immortalization precedes apoptosis in IL-6-induced human B cell
terminal differentiation.

Altmeyer A(1), Simmons RC, Krajewski S, Reed JC, Bornkamm GW, Chen-Kiang S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Cornell University Medical College, New York, New
York 10021, USA.

Cell death in B cell terminal differentiation rapidly follows cell cycle arrest
in IL-6 differentiation of EBV-immortalized, IgG-bearing human lymphoblastoid
cells in vitro. G1 arrest is now found to coincide with repression of EBNA2 and
LMP1, two EBV genes essential for B cell transformation, without activation of
the viral lytic cycle. IL-6-differentiated B cells die by apoptosis, as evidenced
by increases in Annexin V binding activity, PARP cleavage, and chromatin
disorganization. Expression of Mcl-1, a Bcl-2 family member, was specifically
induced during IL-6 differentiation and down-regulated during apoptosis. Thus,
IL-6 reverses EBV immortalization and activates the terminal differentiation
program in IgG-bearing human B lymphoblastoid cells, including regulation of an
anti-apoptotic gene to coordinate differentiation, cell cycle arrest, and cell
death.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-7613(00)80387-8 
PMID: 9390690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3629. Vision Res. 1997 Oct;37(19):2649-60.

Temporal properties of marmoset lateral geniculate cells.

Kremers J(1), Weiss S, Zrenner E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of TÃ¼bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany. jan.kremers@uni-tuebingen.de

We measured the temporal modulation transfer functions (TMTFs) of cells in the
marmoset lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) at three different luminance levels,
and described the responses with a linear model. It was found that qualitatively 
there are many similarities with the temporal response properties of macaque and 
marmoset retinal ganglion cells. M-cells displayed stronger attenuation at lower 
temporal frequencies, and showed more nonlinearities (such as saturation and a
contrast gain control) than P-cells. We therefore propose that the temporal
properties of the visual system of New and Old World monkeys are similar at least
up to the LGN. However, there are some quantitative differences, indicating that 
response alterations take place at the stage of synaptic transmission in the LGN.
The most important are an attenuation of the responses to higher temporal
frequencies and the smaller differences between parvo- and magnocellular cell
responsivities. Cell responses to square-wave modulation were also measured and
compared with predictions from a linear systems analysis. The linear systems
analysis gave reasonable predicted responses to square-wave modulation, but these
predictions were poor than those for retinal ganglion cells, indicating that
additional nonlinearities are introduced at the synaptic transition in the LGN.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(97)00090-4 
PMID: 9373665  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

