

3635. Carcinogenesis. 1997 Oct;18(10):1985-91.

Marmoset CYP1A2: primary structure and constitutive expression in livers.

Sakuma T(1), Igarashi T, Hieda M, Ohgiya S, Isogai M, Ninomiya S, Nagata R,
Nemoto N, Kamataki T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Drug Metabolism, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hokkaido
University, Japan.

Complementary DNA of marmoset CYP1A2 was isolated by means of screening the cDNA 
library and reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The deduced amino
acid sequence of marmoset CYP1A2 consisted of 516 residues and showed 88.2 and
90.0% identities to corresponding forms in human and cynomolgus monkey,
respectively. S1 nuclease protection assay demonstrated that CYP1A2 mRNA was
expressed constitutively in the liver, but not in the lung, kidney and small
intestine. The level of CYP1A2 mRNA in the liver was increased by treatment with 
3-methylcholanthrene and polychlorinated biphenyls. Marmoset CYP1A2 expressed in 
recombinant yeast activated 2-amino-3-methylimidazo [4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) and
2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo [4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) efficiently, and also
activated 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo [4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), but at a
relatively lower rate in the umu mutagenicity test. Marmoset CYP1A2 also showed
ethoxyresorufin O-de-ethylase activity. Based on these results, we demonstrate
that marmosets constitutively express CYP1A2 in the liver as in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/18.10.1985 
PMID: 9364010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3636. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 1997 Oct;45(10):1631-41.

Novel renin inhibitors containing
(2S,3S,5S)-2-amino-1-cyclohexyl-6-methyl-3,5-heptanediol fragment as a
transition-state mimic at the P1-P1' cleavage site.

Yamada Y(1), Ando K, Ikemoto Y, Tada H, Shirakawa E, Inagaki E, Shibata S,
Nakamura I, Hayashi Y, Ikegami K, Uchida I.

Author information: 
(1)Central Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Japan Tobacco Inc., Osaka, Japan.

A series of renin inhibitors containing the
(2S,3S,5S)-2-amino-1-cyclohexyl-6-methyl-3,5-heptanediol (2-amino-3,5-anti-diol) 
fragment as a novel transition-state mimic was synthesized, and their biological 
activities were evaluated. All of the synthesized compounds containing the
2-amino-3,5-anti-diol fragment at the P1-P1' position showed high in vitro
renin-inhibitory activity with IC50 values in the 10(-8)-10(-10) M range, and
most of them caused a reduction of blood pressure when administered orally to
salt-depleted, conscious marmosets. The inhibitor (29) with the
4-hydroxypiperidine residue at the P4 position showed the highest activity in
terms of both potency and duration of the blood pressure-lowering effect.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.45.1631 
PMID: 9353891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

