

364. Neuropharmacology. 2020 May 1;167:107997. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.107997. 
Epub 2020 Feb 10.

The selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist, NLX-112, exerts anti-dyskinetic and
anti-parkinsonian-like effects in MPTP-treated marmosets.

Fisher R(1), Hikima A(1), Morris R(1), Jackson MJ(1), Rose S(1), Varney MA(2),
Depoortere R(2), Newman-Tancredi A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, Hodgkin Building, King's College
London, Guy's Campus, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(2)Neurolixis SAS, 2 Rue Georges Charpak, 81100, Castres, France.
(3)Neurolixis SAS, 2 Rue Georges Charpak, 81100, Castres, France. Electronic
address: anewmantancredi@neurolixis.com.

l-DOPA is the gold-standard pharmacotherapy for treatment of Parkinson's disease 
(PD) but can lead to the appearance of troubling dyskinesia which are
attributable to 'false neurotransmitter' release of dopamine by serotonergic
neurons. Reducing the activity of these neurons diminishes l-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia (LID), but there are currently no clinically approved selective, high 
efficacy 5-HT1A receptor agonists. Here we describe the effects of NLX-112, a
highly selective and efficacious 5-HT1A receptor agonist, on LID in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated marmosets, a
non-human primate model of PD. NLX-112 exhibited modest plasma half-life (~2h)
and marked plasma protein binding (96%). When administered to parkinsonian
marmosets with l-DOPA (7 mg/kg p.o.), NLX-112 (0.025, 0.1 and 0.4 mg/kg p.o.)
reduced LID scores at early time-points after administration, whilst only
minimally interfering with the l-DOPA-induced reversal of motor disability. In
contrast, the prototypical 5-HT1A receptor agonist, (+)8-OH-DPAT (0.6 and 2 mg/kg
p. o.), reduced LID but also abolished l-DOPA's anti-disability activity.
Administered by itself, NLX-112 (0.1, 0.2 mg/kg p.o.) produced very little
dyskinesia or locomotor activity, but reduced motor disability scores by about
half the extent elicited by l-DOPA, suggesting that it may have motor
facilitation effects of its own. Both NLX-112 and (+)8-OH-DPAT induced unusual
and dose-limiting behaviors in marmoset that resembled 'serotonin behavioral
syndrome' observed previously in rat. Overall, the present study showed that
NLX-112 has anti-LID activity at the doses tested as well as reducing motor
disability. The data suggest that additional investigation of NLX-112 is
desirable to explore its potential as a treatment for PD and PD-LID.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.107997 
PMCID: PMC7103782
PMID: 32057799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest AN-T, MAV and
RD are employees and/or stockholders of Neurolixis Inc. The other authors have no
disclosures.


365. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2020 Feb 12;14(2):e0008027. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0008027. eCollection 2020 Feb.

A high infectious simian adenovirus type 23 vector based vaccine efficiently
protects common marmosets against Zika virus infection.

Luo S(1), Zhao W(2), Ma X(1), Zhang P(1), Liu B(1), Zhang L(1), Wang W(1), Wang
Y(3), Fu Y(4), Allain JP(1)(5), Li T(1), Li C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, School of Laboratory Medicine and
Biotechnology, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Laboratory of Biosafety, School of Public Health, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, China.
(3)Experimental Animal Center, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, China.
(4)Guangzhou Blood Center, Guangzhou, China.
(5)Emeritus professor, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Zika virus (ZIKV) has spread in many countries or territories causing severe
neurologic complications with potential fatal outcomes. The small primate common 
marmosets are susceptible to ZIKV, mimicking key features of human infection.
Here, a novel simian adenovirus type 23 vector-based vaccine expressing ZIKV
pre-membrane-envelope proteins (Sad23L-prM-E) was produced in high infectious
titer. Due to determination of immunogenicity in mice, a single-dose of 3×108 PFU
Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was intramuscularly inoculated to marmosets. This vaccine
raised antibody titers of 104.07 E-specific and 103.13 neutralizing antibody
(NAb), as well as robust specific IFN-γ secreting T-cell response (1,219 SFCs/106
cells) to E peptides. The vaccinated marmosets, upon challenge with a high dose
of ZIKV (105 PFU) six weeks post prime immunization, reduced viremia by more than
100 folds, and the low level of detectable viral RNA (<103 copies/ml) in blood,
saliva, urine and feces was promptly eliminated when the secondary NAb (titer
>103.66) and T-cell response (>726 SFCs/106 PBMCs) were acquired 1-2 weeks post
exposure to ZIKV, while non-vaccinated control marmosets developed long-term high
titer of ZIKV (105.73 copies/ml) (P<0.05). No significant pathological lesions
were observed in marmoset tissues. Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was detectable in spleen,
liver and PBMCs at least 4 months post challenge. In conclusion, a prime
immunization with Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was able to protect marmosets against ZIKV
infection when exposed to a high dose of ZIKV. This Sad23L-prM-E vaccine is a
promising vaccine candidate for prevention of ZIKV infection in humans.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0008027 
PMCID: PMC7015313
PMID: 32049958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

