

3641. Neuroscience. 1997 Oct;80(3):717-30.

Contrasting effects of excitotoxic lesions of the prefrontal cortex on the
behavioural response to D-amphetamine and presynaptic and postsynaptic measures
of striatal dopamine function in monkeys.

Wilkinson LS(1), Dias R, Thomas KL, Augood SJ, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW, Roberts
AC.

Author information: 
(1)The Babraham Institute, Department of Neurobiology, Cambridge, U.K.

The effects of excitotoxic lesions of the prefrontal cortex on behavioural,
neurochemical and molecular indices of dopamine function in the caudate nucleus
were studied in the marmoset. The lesion, which encompassed both the lateral and 
orbital regions of prefrontal cortex, made the animals more sensitive to the
performance disrupting effects of the dopamine releasing drug, D-amphetamine, in 
a variation of the object retrieval task. Specifically, following drug
administration, the lesioned marmosets were less able to gain access to food
reward in the minimum number of responses. Analysis of the nature of the errors
suggested that the deficit was not due to inhibition of a prepotent response as
the lesioned monkeys were just as likely to make a detour reach to the unopened
side of the box as a direct "line-of-sight" reach into the unopened front of the 
box. Rather, the data indicated a general disorganization of behaviour. The
enhanced behavioural responsiveness to manipulations increasing presynaptic
dopamine function was accompanied by neurochemical changes indicating a reduced
responsiveness, as revealed by in vivo microdialysis. Thus, in lesioned animals, 
whilst there were no effects on baseline levels of extracellular dopamine in
dorsolateral caudate, evoked release, both to systemic D-amphetamine and to a
local depolarizing pulse of potassium ions, was attenuated. These opposite
effects of the prefrontal cortex lesion on behavioural and neurochemical indices 
of striatal dopamine function occurred in the absence of any changes in striatal 
dopamine receptors of the D1 and D2 subtype, as determined both by radioligand
binding assays and measurements of messenger RNA using in situ hydridization
techniques. These data provide further insight into the interactions between
prefrontal cortex and striatal dopamine function in the non-human primate. In
particular, when taken in the light of our previous studies they indicate that
following prefrontal manipulations, concurrence between behavioural and
neurochemical indices of striatal dopamine function depends, critically, on the
behavioural task. These findings are discussed with respect to the growing body
of evidence implicating abnormalities in frontostriatal neurotransmission in
complex disorders such as schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(97)00075-4 
PMID: 9276488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3642. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Sep 15;386(1):149-60.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor/neurotrophin-4 receptor TrkB is localized on
ganglion cells and dopaminergic amacrine cells in the vertebrate retina.

Cellerino A(1), Kohler K.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital, TÃ¼bingen, Germany.
alessandro.cellerino@uni-tuebingen.de

The tyrosine kinase TrkB is a receptor for the neurotrophic factors brain-derived
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4). Retinal ganglion cells are 
responsive to BDNF, and TrkB has been localized in ganglion cells as well as in a
subpopulation of amacrine cells in the retina of the chicken and the rat. In the 
present paper, we analyzed the distribution of TrkB immunoreactivity in the
retina of marmoset monkeys, ferrets, rabbits, rats, mice, chickens, pigeons, barn
owls, Pseudemys turtles, Xenopus frogs, goldfishes, and carps. TrkB antibodies
gave a positive reaction in all of these vertebrates. TrkB immunoreactivity was
detected in the majority of retinal ganglion cells. Some amacrine cells also
contained TrkB immunoreactivity; they were located mainly at the vitreal border
of the inner nuclear layer, and their relative abundance varied in the different 
species. Until now, no information has been available concerning the
neurochemical identity of the amacrine neurons containing TrkB. In some species
(marmoset monkeys, rats, pigeons), we observed that the morphology and location
of TrkB-immunoreactive amacrine cells was reminiscent of that of the
well-described dopaminergic cells. To determine whether dopaminergic amacrine
cells contained TrkB immunoreactivity, we therefore performed double-labelling
immunohistochemistry by using tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) antibodies in combination
with TrkB antibodies in marmoset monkeys, rats, pigeons, Pseudemys turtles, and
goldfishes. The most novel finding of the present paper is that, in all of these 
species, the majority of dopaminergic neurons were found to contain TrkB
immunoreactivity. Dopaminergic neurons, on the other hand, represented only a
fraction of the TrkB+ amacrine cells. Our data suggest that BDNF and/or NT-4
might modulate expression of TH in the retina and may therefore influence the
retinal dopaminergic system. Whatever the action of TrkB ligands on the retinal
dopaminergic system, it was conserved during vertebrate evolution.


PMID: 9303531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

