

3642. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Sep 15;386(1):149-60.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor/neurotrophin-4 receptor TrkB is localized on
ganglion cells and dopaminergic amacrine cells in the vertebrate retina.

Cellerino A(1), Kohler K.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital, TÃ¼bingen, Germany.
alessandro.cellerino@uni-tuebingen.de

The tyrosine kinase TrkB is a receptor for the neurotrophic factors brain-derived
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4). Retinal ganglion cells are 
responsive to BDNF, and TrkB has been localized in ganglion cells as well as in a
subpopulation of amacrine cells in the retina of the chicken and the rat. In the 
present paper, we analyzed the distribution of TrkB immunoreactivity in the
retina of marmoset monkeys, ferrets, rabbits, rats, mice, chickens, pigeons, barn
owls, Pseudemys turtles, Xenopus frogs, goldfishes, and carps. TrkB antibodies
gave a positive reaction in all of these vertebrates. TrkB immunoreactivity was
detected in the majority of retinal ganglion cells. Some amacrine cells also
contained TrkB immunoreactivity; they were located mainly at the vitreal border
of the inner nuclear layer, and their relative abundance varied in the different 
species. Until now, no information has been available concerning the
neurochemical identity of the amacrine neurons containing TrkB. In some species
(marmoset monkeys, rats, pigeons), we observed that the morphology and location
of TrkB-immunoreactive amacrine cells was reminiscent of that of the
well-described dopaminergic cells. To determine whether dopaminergic amacrine
cells contained TrkB immunoreactivity, we therefore performed double-labelling
immunohistochemistry by using tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) antibodies in combination
with TrkB antibodies in marmoset monkeys, rats, pigeons, Pseudemys turtles, and
goldfishes. The most novel finding of the present paper is that, in all of these 
species, the majority of dopaminergic neurons were found to contain TrkB
immunoreactivity. Dopaminergic neurons, on the other hand, represented only a
fraction of the TrkB+ amacrine cells. Our data suggest that BDNF and/or NT-4
might modulate expression of TH in the retina and may therefore influence the
retinal dopaminergic system. Whatever the action of TrkB ligands on the retinal
dopaminergic system, it was conserved during vertebrate evolution.


PMID: 9303531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3643. Neuroscience. 1997 Nov;81(2):331-43.

Learning impairments following injection of a selective cholinergic immunotoxin, 
ME20.4 IgG-saporin, into the basal nucleus of Meynert in monkeys.

Fine A(1), Hoyle C, Maclean CJ, Levatte TL, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, U.K.

Four groups of monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were injected with saline or
increasing amounts of the immunotoxin, ME20.4 IgG-saporin, directly into the
basal nucleus of Meynert via a frontal trajectory which avoided damage to the
overlying basal ganglia. ME20.4 IgG binds to the primate p75 low-affinity
neurotrophin receptor, when the saporin derivitized antibody is injected into the
basal forebrain, it selectively destroys the magnocellular neurons of the basal
nucleus of Meynert which are the cells of origin of the cholinergic projection to
the neocortex. The highest dose of ME20.4 IgG-saporin produced a significant
impairment on acquisition of a perceptually difficult visual discrimination.
There was no significant effect on retention of tasks learnt before or after
surgery, nor on concurrent acquisition of several perceptually easy
discriminations or serial reversal of an easy discrimination. These results
suggest that the impairment is not due to visual, motor or motivational
difficulties and does not consist of difficulties with the formation of reward
associations. Rather the impairment is largely confined to acquisition of
perceptual discriminations. There was a significant correlation between the
density of ME20.4 immunostaining in the basal nucleus of Meynert and the density 
of acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining in the frontal and temporal cortex
and an inverse correlation between both of these and the degree of learning
impairment in the animals. Lesioned animals also showed significant impairment on
acquisition and reversal of perceptually easy discriminations when treated with a
dose of scopolamine which did not impair performance in control animals. These
results provide further evidence that cortical cholinergic neurotransmission
contributes to certain forms of learning. The availability of a selective
cholinergic immunotoxin effective in primates provides an important new tool for 
the study of cholinergic function and its involvement in ageing, Alzheimer's
disease and other pathological states.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(97)00208-x 
PMID: 9300425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

