

3644. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Sep 22;386(2):260-76.

N-methyl-D-aspartate subunit R1 involvement in the postnatal organization of the 
primary visual cortex of Callithrix jacchus.

Fonta C(1), Chappert C, Imbert M.

Author information: 
(1)UMR5549 Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique/Université Paul
Sabatier/Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales, Faculté de Médecine
Rangueil, Toulouse, France. fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

It has been demonstrated that the primary visual cortex is highly sensitive to
manipulations of the visual environment during a specific, early,
postdevelopmental period: the critical period. Pharmacological studies have shown
that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are involved in the plasticity of the 
visual cortex just as they are involved in the induction of long-term
potentiation (LTP), another activity-dependent form of plasticity. The setting up
of synaptic connectivity in the neocortex may rely on LTP-like mechanisms. By
using immunohistochemistry techniques, we tested the hypothesis of the role of
subunit R1 of NMDA (NMDAR1) receptors in the thalamocortical afferent segregation
into ocular-dominance columns in the New World monkey, Callithrix jacchus. We
employed early and short (2 weeks) monocular-deprivation periods at different
ages of postnatal development (17, 46, 67, 107, and 188 postnatal days). We
observed heterogeneous distribution of NMDAR1 in the layer IVC receiving the
thalamic inputs if the deprivation was realized between the ages of 46 and 107
days. Layers IVCalpha and IVCbeta were involved differently as a function of the 
deprivation age. The striped pattern lost its differential intensity with the
postnatal age. These results are compared with the ocular-dominance pattern
evolution described in other works on this primate. They provide evidence of the 
NMDAR1 role in the modular organization, within time limits, during the postnatal
development of the primary visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19970922)386:2<260::aid-cne7>3.0.co;2-# 
PMID: 9295151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3645. Synapse. 1997 Sep;27(1):14-25.

Vasopressin and oxytocin immunoreactive neurons and fibers in the forebrain of
male and female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Wang Z(1), Moody K, Newman JD, Insel TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, and Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta,
Georgia 30322, USA.

Vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) immunoreactive (ir) neurons and fibers were
examined in the forebrain of male and female common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). As expected from previous studies of cell distribution in the rodent
and primate brain, AVP-ir cells were most evident in the paraventricularis,
supraopticus, and suprachiasmaticus of the hypothalamus. AVP-ir cells were also
widely distributed in the lateral hypothalamus and the bed nucleus of the stria
terminalis. A sexually dimorphic pattern of AVP-ir cells was found in the bed
nucleus of the stria terminalis, in which males had more AVP-ir cells than
females. OT-ir cells were found in the paraventricularis and supraopticus of the 
hypothalamus as well as in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial
amygdala. Male and female marmosets did not differ in the distribution of OT-ir
cells. Fibers for both AVP and OT were evident outside of the
hypothalamic-neurohypophyseal tract, but a plexus of AVP-ir fibers in the lateral
septum or lateral habenular nucleus, as seen in the rat brain, could not be
detected for either peptide.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2396(199709)27:1<14::AID-SYN2>3.0.CO;2-G 
PMID: 9268061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

