

3646. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1997 Sep;58(1):85-91.

Marmoset conspecific confrontation: an ethologically-based model of anxiety.

Cilia J(1), Piper DC.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, New Frontiers Science Park, Harlow, UK.

A method of measuring confrontation-induced behavioural changes in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) together with automated monitoring of locomotor
activity has been developed as a possible model of anxiety. Recording both
affiliative and agonistic behaviours between male/female pairs of marmosets and
using diazepam as a reference drug, it has been possible to define a profile of
behavioural changes which could be regarded as representing an anxiolytic
response. Unfamiliar male/female pairs of marmosets were brought into close
(non-contact) proximity in a controlled environment, in which their locomotor
activity was recorded automatically. Simultaneously, their interactive behaviour 
was assessed by an independent observer via closed-circuit television. The
following behaviours were analysed: aggressive postures, allogrooming,
scratching, anxiety-related behaviours, social contact and self-grooming.
Administration of diazepam at 1 and 3.5 mg/kg PO induced a significant (compared 
to control) reduction in scratching, aggressive behaviours, anxiety-related
behaviours and an increase in allogrooming without affecting locomotor activity
during confrontation. Differing responses dependent on gender were not found, nor
did gender influence the effect of treatment on behaviour. Habituation to
repeated confrontation did not occur. The results from this study demonstrate
that this method can be used to measure anxiolytic activity in an objective
manner.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(96)00376-0 
PMID: 9264075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3647. Toxicol Lett. 1997 Aug 22;92(3):209-19.

Four-week repeated inhalation study of HCFC 225ca and HCFC 225cb in the common
marmoset.

Kurata Y(1), Takechi M, Toyota N, Tsuchitani M, Katoh M, Rusch GM, Trochimowicz
HJ, Shin-Ya S.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute, Ibaraki, Japan.

Four male and three female marmosets in each group were exposed to air only, 1000
ppm of HCFC 225ca or 5000 ppm of HCFC 225cb, for 6 h per day for 28 consecutive
days. HCFC 225ca caused a slight reduction in body weight. HCFC 225cb
occasionally caused somnolence during exposure and vomiting on the first day of
exposure. Clinical chemistry findings included a mild reduction of triglyceride, 
cholesterol and phospholipid levels and increased GOT level in the HCFC 225ca
exposure group. HCFC 225cb also caused a reduction of triglyceride levels in some
animals. HCFC 225ca caused a slight increase of hepatic carnitine
palmitoyltransferase (CPT) activity while HCFC 225cb slightly increased
cyanide-insensitive palmitoyl CoA beta-oxidation (FAOS) activity. In the HCFC
225cb exposure group, an increase in cytochrome P-450 content was also observed. 
HCFC 225ca caused a fatty change in the hepatic cells. Increased incidence of
lipid droplets in the hepatic cells and myelin-like bodies in hepatic cells,
Kupffer's cells and hepatic blood vessels were observed electron microscopically 
in the HCFC 225ca exposure group. A proliferation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum
was observed in the HCFC 225cb exposure group. Decreased peroxisome volume
density in the HCFC 225ca group, and increased volume density in the HCFC 225cb
exposed females were seen. However, organ weight measurement and
histopathological examination did not reveal hepatomegaly or hypertrophy with
either substance. Although slight changes were noticed in peroxisome volume
density and in some of the peroxisomal enzyme activities, the changes related to 
peroxisome proliferation with HCFC 225ca and 225cb were minimal in marmosets
compared to those seen in rats. Histopathological examination and hormonal
analysis did not reveal any abnormalities in the pancreas or testes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4274(97)00059-3 
PMID: 9334832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

