

3647. Toxicol Lett. 1997 Aug 22;92(3):209-19.

Four-week repeated inhalation study of HCFC 225ca and HCFC 225cb in the common
marmoset.

Kurata Y(1), Takechi M, Toyota N, Tsuchitani M, Katoh M, Rusch GM, Trochimowicz
HJ, Shin-Ya S.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute, Ibaraki, Japan.

Four male and three female marmosets in each group were exposed to air only, 1000
ppm of HCFC 225ca or 5000 ppm of HCFC 225cb, for 6 h per day for 28 consecutive
days. HCFC 225ca caused a slight reduction in body weight. HCFC 225cb
occasionally caused somnolence during exposure and vomiting on the first day of
exposure. Clinical chemistry findings included a mild reduction of triglyceride, 
cholesterol and phospholipid levels and increased GOT level in the HCFC 225ca
exposure group. HCFC 225cb also caused a reduction of triglyceride levels in some
animals. HCFC 225ca caused a slight increase of hepatic carnitine
palmitoyltransferase (CPT) activity while HCFC 225cb slightly increased
cyanide-insensitive palmitoyl CoA beta-oxidation (FAOS) activity. In the HCFC
225cb exposure group, an increase in cytochrome P-450 content was also observed. 
HCFC 225ca caused a fatty change in the hepatic cells. Increased incidence of
lipid droplets in the hepatic cells and myelin-like bodies in hepatic cells,
Kupffer's cells and hepatic blood vessels were observed electron microscopically 
in the HCFC 225ca exposure group. A proliferation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum
was observed in the HCFC 225cb exposure group. Decreased peroxisome volume
density in the HCFC 225ca group, and increased volume density in the HCFC 225cb
exposed females were seen. However, organ weight measurement and
histopathological examination did not reveal hepatomegaly or hypertrophy with
either substance. Although slight changes were noticed in peroxisome volume
density and in some of the peroxisomal enzyme activities, the changes related to 
peroxisome proliferation with HCFC 225ca and 225cb were minimal in marmosets
compared to those seen in rats. Histopathological examination and hormonal
analysis did not reveal any abnormalities in the pancreas or testes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4274(97)00059-3 
PMID: 9334832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3648. Vision Res. 1997 Aug;37(16):2171-81.

Receptive field dimensions of lateral geniculate cells in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Kremers J(1), Weiss S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of TÃ¼bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany. jan.kremers@uni-tuebingen.de

We measured the spatial receptive field dimensions of cells in the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using a
bipartite field stimulus in which the two halves of the field were modulated
identically but in counterphase. Horizontal and vertical edges between the two
fields were positioned at different locations in the receptive field. By assuming
that centers and surrounds have gaussian profiles, we were able to obtain a
satisfactory mathematical description of the data. Receptive field centers were
about a factor 1.6 larger than those of macaque LGN cells, in accordance with the
smaller marmoset eye. There was a limited correspondence with dendritic tree
dimensions of marmoset retinal ganglion cells. We further found that center and
surround gaussians were not always concentric, and that the centers of some cells
were elongated. This might allow some direction or orientation biases in LGN
cells.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(97)00041-2 
PMID: 9578900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

