

3648. Vision Res. 1997 Aug;37(16):2171-81.

Receptive field dimensions of lateral geniculate cells in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Kremers J(1), Weiss S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of TÃ¼bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany. jan.kremers@uni-tuebingen.de

We measured the spatial receptive field dimensions of cells in the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using a
bipartite field stimulus in which the two halves of the field were modulated
identically but in counterphase. Horizontal and vertical edges between the two
fields were positioned at different locations in the receptive field. By assuming
that centers and surrounds have gaussian profiles, we were able to obtain a
satisfactory mathematical description of the data. Receptive field centers were
about a factor 1.6 larger than those of macaque LGN cells, in accordance with the
smaller marmoset eye. There was a limited correspondence with dendritic tree
dimensions of marmoset retinal ganglion cells. We further found that center and
surround gaussians were not always concentric, and that the centers of some cells
were elongated. This might allow some direction or orientation biases in LGN
cells.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(97)00041-2 
PMID: 9578900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3649. Virus Res. 1997 Aug;50(2):139-49.

Antigenic variation of the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen EBNA1 as revealed
by monoclonal antibodies.

Iwakiri D(1), Nakamura H, Ono Y, Fujiwara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

The Epstein Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen EBNA1 plays an essential role in the
replication of EBV episomes in latently infected cells and is the only viral
protein that is consistently expressed in all programs of latent EBV gene
expression. In this study, four monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) directed to a
region (amino acid residues 442-530) of EBNA1 were generated. Competitive
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) experiments using biotinylated MoAbs
showed that they recognized distinct epitopes. Reactivity of these MoAbs with
various laboratory EBV strains and field EBV isolates was shown to be
heterogeneous in that EBNA1 from certain strains (isolates) was recognized and
that from others was not. All four MoAbs showed such heterogeneous reactivity,
and moreover, each MoAb showed a distinct spectrum of reactivity with these EBV
strains (isolates). These results demonstrate an extensive structural variation
in this region of EBNA1 as predicted by previous sequencing studies. These MoAbs 
will be useful as probes to dissect this structural heterogeneity of EBNA1.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1702(97)00065-8 
PMID: 9282779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

