

3649. Virus Res. 1997 Aug;50(2):139-49.

Antigenic variation of the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen EBNA1 as revealed
by monoclonal antibodies.

Iwakiri D(1), Nakamura H, Ono Y, Fujiwara S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

The Epstein Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen EBNA1 plays an essential role in the
replication of EBV episomes in latently infected cells and is the only viral
protein that is consistently expressed in all programs of latent EBV gene
expression. In this study, four monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) directed to a
region (amino acid residues 442-530) of EBNA1 were generated. Competitive
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) experiments using biotinylated MoAbs
showed that they recognized distinct epitopes. Reactivity of these MoAbs with
various laboratory EBV strains and field EBV isolates was shown to be
heterogeneous in that EBNA1 from certain strains (isolates) was recognized and
that from others was not. All four MoAbs showed such heterogeneous reactivity,
and moreover, each MoAb showed a distinct spectrum of reactivity with these EBV
strains (isolates). These results demonstrate an extensive structural variation
in this region of EBNA1 as predicted by previous sequencing studies. These MoAbs 
will be useful as probes to dissect this structural heterogeneity of EBNA1.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-1702(97)00065-8 
PMID: 9282779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3650. Med Hypotheses. 1997 Aug;49(2):123-31.

Thalidomide may impede cell migration in primates by down-regulating integrin
beta-chains: potential therapeutic utility in solid malignancies, proliferative
retinopathy, inflammatory disorders, neointimal hyperplasia, and osteoporosis.

McCarty MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition 21, San Diego, CA 92109, USA.

A growing number of human inflammatory disorders are reported to respond to
treatment with thalidomide, and recently this drug has been shown to inhibit
angiogenesis in the rabbit, in doses which can elicit teratogenicity in this
species. Studies in marmosets and humans indicate that thalidomide, and a
teratogenic analogue, decrease the expression of beta integrin subunits, most
notably beta 3 and the beta 2 produced by leukocytes. Since integrins are crucial
for cell-matrix interactions, and the beta 2 integrins of leukocytes mediate
adhesion to endothelium, it is reasonable to postulate that thalidomide inhibits 
cell migration in susceptible species, and that this accounts for its
anti-inflammatory, anti-angiogenic, and teratogenic activity. This perspective
suggests that thalidomide will show utility in the prevention or treatment of a
wide range of disorders, including solid tumors, proliferative retinopathies,
many inflammatory diseases, neointimal hyperplasia, and osteoporosis. It is
likely that dietary fish oil-as well as selective inhibitors of urokinase, when
and if they become clinically available-will complement the efficacy of
thalidomide in most if not all of these applications.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-9877(97)90217-6 
PMID: 9278924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

