

365. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2020 Feb 12;14(2):e0008027. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0008027. eCollection 2020 Feb.

A high infectious simian adenovirus type 23 vector based vaccine efficiently
protects common marmosets against Zika virus infection.

Luo S(1), Zhao W(2), Ma X(1), Zhang P(1), Liu B(1), Zhang L(1), Wang W(1), Wang
Y(3), Fu Y(4), Allain JP(1)(5), Li T(1), Li C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, School of Laboratory Medicine and
Biotechnology, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Laboratory of Biosafety, School of Public Health, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, China.
(3)Experimental Animal Center, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, China.
(4)Guangzhou Blood Center, Guangzhou, China.
(5)Emeritus professor, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Zika virus (ZIKV) has spread in many countries or territories causing severe
neurologic complications with potential fatal outcomes. The small primate common 
marmosets are susceptible to ZIKV, mimicking key features of human infection.
Here, a novel simian adenovirus type 23 vector-based vaccine expressing ZIKV
pre-membrane-envelope proteins (Sad23L-prM-E) was produced in high infectious
titer. Due to determination of immunogenicity in mice, a single-dose of 3×108 PFU
Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was intramuscularly inoculated to marmosets. This vaccine
raised antibody titers of 104.07 E-specific and 103.13 neutralizing antibody
(NAb), as well as robust specific IFN-γ secreting T-cell response (1,219 SFCs/106
cells) to E peptides. The vaccinated marmosets, upon challenge with a high dose
of ZIKV (105 PFU) six weeks post prime immunization, reduced viremia by more than
100 folds, and the low level of detectable viral RNA (<103 copies/ml) in blood,
saliva, urine and feces was promptly eliminated when the secondary NAb (titer
>103.66) and T-cell response (>726 SFCs/106 PBMCs) were acquired 1-2 weeks post
exposure to ZIKV, while non-vaccinated control marmosets developed long-term high
titer of ZIKV (105.73 copies/ml) (P<0.05). No significant pathological lesions
were observed in marmoset tissues. Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was detectable in spleen,
liver and PBMCs at least 4 months post challenge. In conclusion, a prime
immunization with Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was able to protect marmosets against ZIKV
infection when exposed to a high dose of ZIKV. This Sad23L-prM-E vaccine is a
promising vaccine candidate for prevention of ZIKV infection in humans.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0008027 
PMCID: PMC7015313
PMID: 32049958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


366. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Apr;174:113835. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.113835. Epub 2020
Feb 4.

Systematic characterization of glutathione S-transferases in common marmosets.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Tanaka S(2), Murayama N(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Kagoshima 890-8580, Japan; Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan,
Wakayama 642-0017, Japan. Electronic address: unoxx001@vet.kagoshima-u.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic address:
hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The common marmoset is an important primate species used in drug metabolism
studies. However, glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), essential drug-metabolizing 
enzymes involved in the conjugation of various endogenous and exogenous
substrates, have not been identified or characterized in this species. In this
study, 20 GSTs [including 3 microsomal GSTs (MGSTs)] were identified and
characterized in marmosets. Marmoset GSTs had amino acid sequences highly
identical (86-99%) to human GSTs, except for GSTA4L, which had lower identities
(59-62%) with human GSTAs. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that marmoset GSTs were
closely clustered with their human counterparts. Marmoset GSTs had gene and
genomic structures generally similar to their human counterparts, with some
differences in GSTA, GSTM, and GSTT clusters. Marmoset GST mRNAs exhibited
distinct tissue expression patterns: GSTA1, GSTA3, GSTA4L, GSTK1, GSTT1, GSTZ1,
and MGST1 mRNAs were expressed most abundantly in liver. Other GST mRNAs were
expressed most abundantly in small intestine, lung, brain, or kidney. Expression 
of GSTT4 and GSTT4L mRNAs was detected only in testis. Among all 20 marmoset GST 
mRNAs, the most abundant mRNAs were GSTA1 mRNA in liver, small intestine, and
kidney; GSTM3 mRNA in testis; and MSGT3 mRNA in brain and lung. All 20 GSTs
mediated the conjugation of GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene;
1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane; styrene 7,8-oxide; and/or 1-iodohexane, but 
with different activity levels. Kinetic analyses showed that marmoset GSTM2/GSTM5
and GSTM5/GSTT1 effectively conjugated styrene 7,8-oxide and 1-iodohexane,
respectively, with the highest affinity. These results suggest that the 20 newly 
identified marmoset GSTs were functional drug-metabolizing enzymes able to
conjugate typical GST substrates.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.113835 
PMID: 32027883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

