

3652. Physiol Behav. 1997 Aug;62(2):225-32.

Psychosocial stress and urinary cortisol excretion in marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix kuhli).

Smith TE(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Nebraska Behavioral Biology Group, University of 
Nebraska at Omaha, 68182-0274, USA. tsmith2@unomaha.edu

Activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is one of the
hallmarks of the physiological responses to psychosocial stressors. The most
common method of assessing HPA function is via the measurement of plasma cortisol
levels. However, venipuncture involves capture and restraint, which can modify
HPA function. We validated a noninvasive procedure for monitoring HPA responses
to stressors by measuring excretion of free urinary cortisol. Samples collected
throughout the day displayed marked circadian variation, with low cortisol values
in first-void samples, followed by a mid-morning peak in cortisol excretion.
Concentrations of excreted cortisol declined throughout the day. Exposing
marmosets to mild and moderate stressors (11 h isolation in a small cage and
manual restraint) increased excreted cortisol concentrations in a dose-dependent 
fashion: isolation in a small cage led to elevated cortisol in afternoon samples,
while manual restraint and isolation produced elevated cortisol in both morning
and afternoon samples. The marmoset HPA is differentially sensitive to rather
subtle variations in stressors, and these results show that urinary cortisol
excretion is a valid and sensitive index of the HPA response to these stressors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(97)00103-0 
PMID: 9251962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3653. J Virol. 1997 Aug;71(8):6136-43.

Sp1 binds to the precise locus of end processing within the terminal repeats of
Epstein-Barr virus DNA.

Sun R(1), Spain TA, Lin SF, Miller G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8064, USA.

Interconversion between the linear genome of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) present in 
virions and intracellular circular EBV DNA is a novel DNA recombination process. 
A previously characterized DNA binding activity called terminal repeat or tandem 
repeat binding protein (TRBP) was found to recognize several G-rich
recombinogenic sequences in the EBV genome and in cellular DNA. TRBP was also
found to be an autoantigen recognized by sera from certain patients with
undifferentiated connective-tissue disorders. Here the transcription factor Sp1
has been identified as a component of TRBP and has been shown to be an
autoantigen. Sp1 bound to recombination junctions of EBV DNA, such as those in
the terminal repeats and in the large internal repeats, as well as to
recombinogenic regions of cellular DNA, such as variable-number tandem repeats
and switch regions of the immunoglobulin genes. We defined the ends of the linear
EBV genome present in virions and showed that Sp1 binds to the sequence
(GGGGTGGGGCATGGG) within EBV terminal repeats at the precise locus of
interconversion of linear and circular viral DNA. Sp1 may be involved in DNA
recombination.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.71.8.6136-6143.1997 
PMCID: PMC191874
PMID: 9223508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

