

3653. J Virol. 1997 Aug;71(8):6136-43.

Sp1 binds to the precise locus of end processing within the terminal repeats of
Epstein-Barr virus DNA.

Sun R(1), Spain TA, Lin SF, Miller G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8064, USA.

Interconversion between the linear genome of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) present in 
virions and intracellular circular EBV DNA is a novel DNA recombination process. 
A previously characterized DNA binding activity called terminal repeat or tandem 
repeat binding protein (TRBP) was found to recognize several G-rich
recombinogenic sequences in the EBV genome and in cellular DNA. TRBP was also
found to be an autoantigen recognized by sera from certain patients with
undifferentiated connective-tissue disorders. Here the transcription factor Sp1
has been identified as a component of TRBP and has been shown to be an
autoantigen. Sp1 bound to recombination junctions of EBV DNA, such as those in
the terminal repeats and in the large internal repeats, as well as to
recombinogenic regions of cellular DNA, such as variable-number tandem repeats
and switch regions of the immunoglobulin genes. We defined the ends of the linear
EBV genome present in virions and showed that Sp1 binds to the sequence
(GGGGTGGGGCATGGG) within EBV terminal repeats at the precise locus of
interconversion of linear and circular viral DNA. Sp1 may be involved in DNA
recombination.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.71.8.6136-6143.1997 
PMCID: PMC191874
PMID: 9223508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3654. Neuroreport. 1997 Jul 28;8(11):2567-70.

(-)-OSU 6162 inhibits levodopa-induced dyskinesias in a monkey model of
Parkinson's disease.

Ekesbo A(1), Andr√©n PE, Gunne LM, Tedroff J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

We have studied the effects of two D2 dopamine receptor-selective compounds,
(-)-OSU 6162 and raclopride, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). Three monkeys developed a severe parkinsonian syndrome
following administration of MPTP. In response to daily levodopa treatment the
animals developed reproducible and idiosyncratic peak-dose dyskinesias.
Pretreatment with (-)-OSU 6162 and raclopride, in doses increased by multiples of
three, both dose-dependently relieved the levodopa-induced dyskinesias. However, 
in contrast to when raclopride pretreatment was given, (-)-OSU 6162 pretreatment 
did not induce akinesia. Our investigation suggests that (-)-OSU 6162 may be
useful an an adjuvant treatment to levodopa in advanced Parkinson's disease to
selectively combat levodopa-induced dyskinesias without affecting the
antiparkinsonian response.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199707280-00029 
PMID: 9261828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

