

3654. Neuroreport. 1997 Jul 28;8(11):2567-70.

(-)-OSU 6162 inhibits levodopa-induced dyskinesias in a monkey model of
Parkinson's disease.

Ekesbo A(1), Andrén PE, Gunne LM, Tedroff J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

We have studied the effects of two D2 dopamine receptor-selective compounds,
(-)-OSU 6162 and raclopride, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). Three monkeys developed a severe parkinsonian syndrome
following administration of MPTP. In response to daily levodopa treatment the
animals developed reproducible and idiosyncratic peak-dose dyskinesias.
Pretreatment with (-)-OSU 6162 and raclopride, in doses increased by multiples of
three, both dose-dependently relieved the levodopa-induced dyskinesias. However, 
in contrast to when raclopride pretreatment was given, (-)-OSU 6162 pretreatment 
did not induce akinesia. Our investigation suggests that (-)-OSU 6162 may be
useful an an adjuvant treatment to levodopa in advanced Parkinson's disease to
selectively combat levodopa-induced dyskinesias without affecting the
antiparkinsonian response.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199707280-00029 
PMID: 9261828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3655. Virology. 1997 Jul 21;234(1):14-30.

Comparative analyses of LTRs of the ERV-H family of primate-specific
retrovirus-like elements isolated from marmoset, African green monkey, and man.

Anderssen S(1), Sjøttem E, Svineng G, Johansen T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Medical Biology, University of
Tromsø, Norway.

We have isolated 8 different long terminal repeat (LTR) sequences of the ERV-H
family of endogenous retrovirus-like elements from human chromosome 18, 9 from
African green monkey, and 28 from marmoset. Human ERV-H LTRs have been divided
into three types designated Type I, Type Ia, and Type II. Comparative analyses of
the 45 isolated LTRs and 60 human ERV-H LTRs enabled a further subdivision into
13 subtypes. Type I elements were widely distributed in all three species. Their 
average evolutionary age (40 MYr), estimated by a consensus sequence approach,
suggests that they first expanded in the genomes at the time New- and Old World
monkeys diverged. The occurence of some very old Type I sequences indicate that
ERV-H elements may have integrated even before prosimians and primates diverged. 
Type Ia and - II elements were found in both monkey species. Promoter active Type
I and Type Ia LTRs were found while Type II LTRs were inactive. Promoter active
Type I LTRs generally contained a functional GC/GT box immediately 3' to the TATA
box, providing strong binding of Sp1 family proteins, while the highly promoter
active Type Ia element H6 contained synergistically acting Sp1 binding sites
located in the U3 enhancer region.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1997.8590 
PMID: 9234943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

