

3655. Virology. 1997 Jul 21;234(1):14-30.

Comparative analyses of LTRs of the ERV-H family of primate-specific
retrovirus-like elements isolated from marmoset, African green monkey, and man.

Anderssen S(1), Sjøttem E, Svineng G, Johansen T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Medical Biology, University of
Tromsø, Norway.

We have isolated 8 different long terminal repeat (LTR) sequences of the ERV-H
family of endogenous retrovirus-like elements from human chromosome 18, 9 from
African green monkey, and 28 from marmoset. Human ERV-H LTRs have been divided
into three types designated Type I, Type Ia, and Type II. Comparative analyses of
the 45 isolated LTRs and 60 human ERV-H LTRs enabled a further subdivision into
13 subtypes. Type I elements were widely distributed in all three species. Their 
average evolutionary age (40 MYr), estimated by a consensus sequence approach,
suggests that they first expanded in the genomes at the time New- and Old World
monkeys diverged. The occurence of some very old Type I sequences indicate that
ERV-H elements may have integrated even before prosimians and primates diverged. 
Type Ia and - II elements were found in both monkey species. Promoter active Type
I and Type Ia LTRs were found while Type II LTRs were inactive. Promoter active
Type I LTRs generally contained a functional GC/GT box immediately 3' to the TATA
box, providing strong binding of Sp1 family proteins, while the highly promoter
active Type Ia element H6 contained synergistically acting Sp1 binding sites
located in the U3 enhancer region.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1997.8590 
PMID: 9234943  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3656. Virology. 1997 Jul 21;234(1):1-13.

Early detection of the lytic LMP-1 protein in EBV-infected B-cells suggests its
presence in the virion.

Erickson KD(1), Martin JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, University of
Colorado, Boulder 80309, USA.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive B958 cell line expresses two related
membrane proteins encoded by BNLF-1 open reading frames. One protein (LMP-1) has 
been shown to be essential for the growth transforming properties of EBV. The
second protein (the lytic LMP-1) is an amino-terminally truncated form of LMP-1
whose expression is associated with induction of EBV's lytic cycle. We have
investigated the expression of full-length and lytic forms of LMP-1 immediately
after infection of the EBV-negative, B-lymphoma cell line BJAB. Only the lytic
LMP-1 protein is present in BJAB cells early (within minutes following addition
of virus) after infection with virus derived from either uninduced or
tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate and sodium butyrate-induced B958 cells. Lytic LMP-1
protein levels begin to decline by 48 hr after infection, whereas levels of
full-length LMP-1 increase between 24 and 48 hr after infection and then remain
constant. The presence of the lytic LMP-1 protein in infected cells is
independent of both protein synthesis and virus internalization. We also find the
lytic LMP-1 protein in BJAB cells early after infection (within 3 hr of addition 
of virus) with the HH514 strain of EBV, and HH514 cells treated with
tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate and sodium butyrate, express high levels of both
the lytic LMP-1 and full-length LMP-1 proteins. The lytic LMP-1 protein is
enriched in purified virion preparations, and immunoelectron microscopic analysis
indicates that EBV virions can be specifically labeled with anti-LMP-1 antisera. 
Together, these results are consistent with a model in which the lytic LMP-1
protein is present in the EBV virion and is carried into the B-cell upon
infection and suggest a role for this protein in early infection events and/or in
EBV's lytic cycle.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1997.8638 
PMID: 9234942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

