

3656. Virology. 1997 Jul 21;234(1):1-13.

Early detection of the lytic LMP-1 protein in EBV-infected B-cells suggests its
presence in the virion.

Erickson KD(1), Martin JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, University of
Colorado, Boulder 80309, USA.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive B958 cell line expresses two related
membrane proteins encoded by BNLF-1 open reading frames. One protein (LMP-1) has 
been shown to be essential for the growth transforming properties of EBV. The
second protein (the lytic LMP-1) is an amino-terminally truncated form of LMP-1
whose expression is associated with induction of EBV's lytic cycle. We have
investigated the expression of full-length and lytic forms of LMP-1 immediately
after infection of the EBV-negative, B-lymphoma cell line BJAB. Only the lytic
LMP-1 protein is present in BJAB cells early (within minutes following addition
of virus) after infection with virus derived from either uninduced or
tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate and sodium butyrate-induced B958 cells. Lytic LMP-1
protein levels begin to decline by 48 hr after infection, whereas levels of
full-length LMP-1 increase between 24 and 48 hr after infection and then remain
constant. The presence of the lytic LMP-1 protein in infected cells is
independent of both protein synthesis and virus internalization. We also find the
lytic LMP-1 protein in BJAB cells early after infection (within 3 hr of addition 
of virus) with the HH514 strain of EBV, and HH514 cells treated with
tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate and sodium butyrate, express high levels of both
the lytic LMP-1 and full-length LMP-1 proteins. The lytic LMP-1 protein is
enriched in purified virion preparations, and immunoelectron microscopic analysis
indicates that EBV virions can be specifically labeled with anti-LMP-1 antisera. 
Together, these results are consistent with a model in which the lytic LMP-1
protein is present in the EBV virion and is carried into the B-cell upon
infection and suggest a role for this protein in early infection events and/or in
EBV's lytic cycle.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1997.8638 
PMID: 9234942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3657. J Vet Med Sci. 1997 Jul;59(7):561-7.

Effects of click intensity and frequency on the brain-stem auditory evoked
potentials in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Harada T(1), Tokuriki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Physiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Yamaguchi
University, Japan.

Brain-stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) were recorded in 20 common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to investigate the effects of click frequency up
to 99 kHz, in consideration of the higher hearing range of the marmoset, and
intensity on wave forms and peak latencies. According to the results of BAEP
recordings at frequencies of 4, 32, and 99 kHz, the number of components recorded
was affected by the stimulus intensity and the clicks at an intensity of 80 dB
peak equivalent sound pressure level (pe SPL) had the maximum number of clear
components. Therefore, it was indicated that click stimulations at an intensity
of 80 dB pe SPL over a broad range of frequencies appears to be useful for
recording the maximum number of components in marmosets and may increase the
information obtainable from BAEPs. BAEP latencies were prolonged as the stimulus 
intensity decreased from 100 to 50 dB pe SPL. The effects of stimulus frequency
on the wave latencies and amplitudes in response to 80 dB pe SPL at frequencies
between 0.5 and 99 kHz revealed various changes: the amplitude of wave I
increased at 16 and 32 kHz, but that of waves III and V increased at 4-8 and
64-99 kHz. These increases in amplitudes of the waves may correlate with higher
synchronous activity of the peripheral or central auditory pathways.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.59.561 
PMID: 9271451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

