

3661. Vet Pathol. 1997 Jul;34(4):341-5.

Idiopathic myelofibrosis (agnogenic myeloid metaplasia) in a marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): hematologic and histopathologic changes.

Khan KN, Logan AC, Blomquist EM.

Idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF), or agnogenic myeloid metaplasia, was diagnosed in
a sexually mature male marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) based on the results of
hematology and histopathologic evaluation of the bone marrow. The hematologic
changes included pancytopenia, leukoerythroblastosis, anisocytosis,
poikilocytosis, and giant platelets. Histopathologic evaluation of the bone
marrow showed marked widespread fibrosis replacing hematopoietic cells and the
presence of atypical megakaryocytes. In addition, slight multifocal osteolysis
with an increase in serum alkaline phosphatase activity was observed. We believe 
this is the first report of IMF in a nonhuman primate species.

DOI: 10.1177/030098589703400410 
PMID: 9240843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3662. Eur J Neurosci. 1997 Jul;9(7):1536-41.

Evidence that blue-on cells are part of the third geniculocortical pathway in
primates.

Martin PR(1), White AJ, Goodchild AK, Wilder HD, Sefton AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Colour vision in primates is mediated by cone opponent ganglion cells in the
retina, whose axons project to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in the
visual thalamus. It has long been assumed that cone opponent ganglion cells
project to the parvocellular layers of the geniculate. Here, we examine the role 
of a third subdivision of the geniculocortical pathway: the interlaminar or
koniocellular geniculate relay cells. We made extracellular recordings in the
dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus, a
New World monkey in which the interlaminar cells are well segregated from the
parvocellular layers. We found that one group of colour opponent cells, the
blue-on cells, was largely segregated to the interlaminar zone. This segregation 
was common to dichromatic ('red-green colour-blind') and trichromatic marmosets. 
The result calls into question the traditional notion that all colour information
passes through the parvocellular division of the retino-geniculo-cortical pathway
in primates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.1997.tb01509.x 
PMID: 9240412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

