

3662. Eur J Neurosci. 1997 Jul;9(7):1536-41.

Evidence that blue-on cells are part of the third geniculocortical pathway in
primates.

Martin PR(1), White AJ, Goodchild AK, Wilder HD, Sefton AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.

Colour vision in primates is mediated by cone opponent ganglion cells in the
retina, whose axons project to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in the
visual thalamus. It has long been assumed that cone opponent ganglion cells
project to the parvocellular layers of the geniculate. Here, we examine the role 
of a third subdivision of the geniculocortical pathway: the interlaminar or
koniocellular geniculate relay cells. We made extracellular recordings in the
dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus, a
New World monkey in which the interlaminar cells are well segregated from the
parvocellular layers. We found that one group of colour opponent cells, the
blue-on cells, was largely segregated to the interlaminar zone. This segregation 
was common to dichromatic ('red-green colour-blind') and trichromatic marmosets. 
The result calls into question the traditional notion that all colour information
passes through the parvocellular division of the retino-geniculo-cortical pathway
in primates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.1997.tb01509.x 
PMID: 9240412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3663. J Gen Virol. 1997 Jul;78 ( Pt 7):1565-9.

Molecular cloning of the hepatitis A virus receptor from a simian cell line.

Ashida M(1), Hamada C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.
vgoal@med.niigata.u.ac.jp

Using a eukaryotic expression system in combination with a monoclonal antibody
(MAb) capable of blocking hepatitis A virus (HAV) adsorption, a cDNA clone was
selected from a library of S.la/Ve-1 cells, a cell line that is highly
susceptible to the virus. Sequence analysis of the cDNA revealed a single open
reading frame that encoded a protein consisting of 460 amino acids. The deduced
primary structure of the protein included a signal sequence, a transmembrane
domain, four sites for N-linked glycosylation, cysteine residues attributable to 
an immunoglobulin domain and threonine clusters characteristic of mucin-like
protein. By employing a vaccinia virus expression vector, the cDNA was expressed 
in HeLa cells where it induced marked HAV attachment which was specifically
blocked by the MAb. The cDNA obtained was thus assumed to encode a functional
receptor for HAV.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-78-7-1565 
PMID: 9225030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

