

3663. J Gen Virol. 1997 Jul;78 ( Pt 7):1565-9.

Molecular cloning of the hepatitis A virus receptor from a simian cell line.

Ashida M(1), Hamada C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.
vgoal@med.niigata.u.ac.jp

Using a eukaryotic expression system in combination with a monoclonal antibody
(MAb) capable of blocking hepatitis A virus (HAV) adsorption, a cDNA clone was
selected from a library of S.la/Ve-1 cells, a cell line that is highly
susceptible to the virus. Sequence analysis of the cDNA revealed a single open
reading frame that encoded a protein consisting of 460 amino acids. The deduced
primary structure of the protein included a signal sequence, a transmembrane
domain, four sites for N-linked glycosylation, cysteine residues attributable to 
an immunoglobulin domain and threonine clusters characteristic of mucin-like
protein. By employing a vaccinia virus expression vector, the cDNA was expressed 
in HeLa cells where it induced marked HAV attachment which was specifically
blocked by the MAb. The cDNA obtained was thus assumed to encode a functional
receptor for HAV.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-78-7-1565 
PMID: 9225030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3664. Biol Reprod. 1997 Jul;57(1):16-26.

A local oxytocin system is part of the luteinization process in the preovulatory 
follicle of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Jurdzinski A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen.
aeinspa@gwdg.de

Luteinization is a complex differentiation process involving the interaction of
extrinsic and intraovarian factors. The aim of this study was to examine the
components of an intraovarian oxytocin (OT) system during the periovulatory
period in the marmoset monkey, as well as the possible relationship of these
components to other factors involved in the luteinization process, using
immunohistochemistry and cell culture techniques. Ovaries were collected on Day 7
of the follicular phase (before the endogenous LH surge) and on Day 8 (22 h after
an exogenous hCG application, but before ovulation). Before the endogenous LH
increase, OT immunoreactivity was detectable at low levels in most antral
follicles, where its presence was confined to antral granulosa cell (GC) layers. 
In contrast, immunoreactivity for the OT receptor (OTR) was localized primarily
in the basal GC layer. After application of exogenous hCG, there was a marked
enhancement in both the staining intensity and the number of cells positive for
OT and the OTR in all GC layers of antral follicles, especially in the
preovulatory follicle. Progesterone receptor and 3beta-hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase activity in GC were clearly present only when follicles were
obtained after gonadotropin stimulation. Secretion of authentic OT was
demonstrated from cultured GC obtained before the LH surge, with highest amounts 
in cells cultured from preovulatory as opposed to smaller antral follicles. OT
production could be stimulated by the application of hCG to the GC cultured from 
preovulatory follicles, whereas the gonadotropin was without effect on GC from
small follicles. FSH had no effect on OT production by GC from either follicle
type. Application of OT to the cultures caused an increase in progesterone
production by GC from large preovulatory follicles but was without effect on
steroidogenesis by cells from small antral follicles. These results describing
the presence and distribution of OT and OTR and their modulation by hCG, as well 
as the luteotrophic effect of OT in cultured GC from preovulatory follicles,
implicate OT as a paracrine mediator in the luteinization process in the primate 
ovary.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod57.1.16 
PMID: 9209075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

