

3664. Biol Reprod. 1997 Jul;57(1):16-26.

A local oxytocin system is part of the luteinization process in the preovulatory 
follicle of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Jurdzinski A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen.
aeinspa@gwdg.de

Luteinization is a complex differentiation process involving the interaction of
extrinsic and intraovarian factors. The aim of this study was to examine the
components of an intraovarian oxytocin (OT) system during the periovulatory
period in the marmoset monkey, as well as the possible relationship of these
components to other factors involved in the luteinization process, using
immunohistochemistry and cell culture techniques. Ovaries were collected on Day 7
of the follicular phase (before the endogenous LH surge) and on Day 8 (22 h after
an exogenous hCG application, but before ovulation). Before the endogenous LH
increase, OT immunoreactivity was detectable at low levels in most antral
follicles, where its presence was confined to antral granulosa cell (GC) layers. 
In contrast, immunoreactivity for the OT receptor (OTR) was localized primarily
in the basal GC layer. After application of exogenous hCG, there was a marked
enhancement in both the staining intensity and the number of cells positive for
OT and the OTR in all GC layers of antral follicles, especially in the
preovulatory follicle. Progesterone receptor and 3beta-hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase activity in GC were clearly present only when follicles were
obtained after gonadotropin stimulation. Secretion of authentic OT was
demonstrated from cultured GC obtained before the LH surge, with highest amounts 
in cells cultured from preovulatory as opposed to smaller antral follicles. OT
production could be stimulated by the application of hCG to the GC cultured from 
preovulatory follicles, whereas the gonadotropin was without effect on GC from
small follicles. FSH had no effect on OT production by GC from either follicle
type. Application of OT to the cultures caused an increase in progesterone
production by GC from large preovulatory follicles but was without effect on
steroidogenesis by cells from small antral follicles. These results describing
the presence and distribution of OT and OTR and their modulation by hCG, as well 
as the luteotrophic effect of OT in cultured GC from preovulatory follicles,
implicate OT as a paracrine mediator in the luteinization process in the primate 
ovary.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod57.1.16 
PMID: 9209075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3665. Synapse. 1997 Jul;26(3):301-16.

Nitric oxide synthase inhibition and MPTP-induced toxicity in the common
marmoset.

Mackenzie GM(1), Jackson MJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College London, United
Kingdom.

Nitric oxide, produced following activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptors, may be involved in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
toxicity since NMDA receptor antagonists have been shown to prevent MPTP induced 
nigral cell loss in primates. Common marmosets were treated with either saline or
MPTP or L-NGnitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) or MPTP and L-NAME. MPTP-treated
common marmosets showed motor deficits including bradykinesia, rigidity, and
tremor accompanied by a marked loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive
neurones in the substantia nigra pars compacta and of [3H]-mazindol binding in
the caudate-putamen. MPTP treatment also caused an increase in glial fibrillary
acidic protein (GFAP) staining in the substantia nigra compared to controls.
However, MPTP treatment did not alter the number of constitutive nitric oxide
synthase-immunoreactive neurones in the caudate-putamen. Furthermore, neurones or
glial cells immunoreactive for inducible nitric oxide synthase were not observed 
in the substantia nigra pars compacta following MPTP treatment. L-NAME treatment 
alone did not produce any behavioural changes in marmosets and did not alter the 
number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra pars 
compacta, the number of constitutive nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive
neurones or [3H]-mazindol binding in the caudate-putamen compared to
saline-treated control animals. Furthermore, L-NAME did not affect the motor
deficits, loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurones in the substantia 
nigra pars compacta, loss of [3H]-mazindol binding in the caudate-putamen, or the
increase in GFAP staining in the substantia nigra induced by MPTP treatment of
common marmosets. The failure of L-NAME to protect against MPTP-induced toxicity 
in the marmoset suggests that nitric oxide does not play a major role in such
toxicity and casts doubt over the involvement of the NMDA:nitric oxide system in 
neurodegeneration in MPTP-treated primates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2396(199707)26:3<301::AID-SYN11>3.0.CO;2-Y 
PMID: 9183819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

