

3666. Baillieres Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 1997 Jun;11(2):249-60.

Role of androgens in follicle maturation and atresia.

Hillier SG(1), Tetsuka M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh, UK.

Androgens are products of progestogen metabolism, intermediates in oestrogen
biosynthesis and local regulators of ovarian function. Current understanding of
intraovarian androgen formation, metabolism and action is reviewed, highlighting 
the contribution of androgens to the paracrine regulation of follicular
maturation and atresia. Any factor that alters intracellular cAMP levels is a
potential modulator of granulosa cell differentiation, and hence follicular
development. Androgen appears to modulate gonadotrophin action on granulosa cells
through amplification of cAMP-mediated post-receptor signalling. Here it is
argued that during intermediate stages of follicular development, locally
produced androgen acts via granulosa cell androgen receptors (AR) to promote
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)-induced granulosa cell differentiation through
amplifying cAMP-mediated post-receptor signalling. During late pre-ovulatory
follicular development, higher concentrations of cAMP caused by stimulation with 
luteinizing hormone (LH) suppress granulosa cell proliferation and down-regulate 
some of the genes induced by FSH at earlier stages of pre-ovulatory development, 
including aromatase activity. Other granulosa cell functions, including
progesterone synthesis, are enhanced by the high concentrations of cAMP induced
by LH. There is experimental evidence from studies of rat and non-human primate
(common marmoset) ovaries that AR levels in granulosa cells decline during
pre-ovulatory follicular maturation. Since androgens augment FSH-induced cAMP
formation and action, loss of AR could be a means of avoiding inappropriately
high cAMP levels and hence avoiding premature activation of 'high-tone'
cAMP-response genes that lead to atresia. Negative regulation of the granulosa
cell AR could be part of the intra-ovarian mechanism that determines which
follicle(s) becomes dominant and secretes oestrogen in the normal menstrual
cycle.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3552(97)80036-3 
PMID: 9536210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3667. J Med Primatol. 1997 Jun;26(3):139-46.

Reproductive efficiency in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): a
longitudinal study from ovulation to birth monitored by ultrasonography.

Nubbemeyer R(1), Heistermann M, Oerke AK, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

This study examines reproductive efficiency in the common marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus, using sequential ultrasound examinations to establish
ovulation number, implantation rate, and incidence of prenatal loss. Ultrasound
was carried out with a 10 or 7.5 mHz probe in nonsedated animals, daily during
the late follicular phase, approximately twice a week until day 20 after
ovulation, and at days 35, 56, and 85 of pregnancy to enable visualization of
gestation sacs, heartbeats, and fetal heads, respectively. Ovulatory follicles
could be seen 3-4 days before ovulation and by day -2, 98% of ovulating follicles
were > 2mm diameter, although almost 10% of follicles of this size disappeared
without ovulating. Total number of ovulating follicles for 15 females was 45
(mean ovulation rate = 3.0, range 2-4). In the 14 animals that conceived, 41
corpora lutea were identified (mean ovulation rate = 2.9) within 10 days of
ovulation. All pregnancies went to term (no abortion occurred) resulting in the
birth of 37 neonates (9 triplets, 5 twins) and an average litter size of 2.64.
All four losses were confined to the embryonic period (< day 85), two occurring
before day 35, one between days 35 and 56, and one between days 56 and 85. In
demonstrating that 90% of ovulatory follicles gave rise to live offspring, the
results of this study indicate an extremely high reproductive efficiency in the
marmoset monkey (when maintained under favorable captive conditions) and a rate
of prenatal loss much lower than that reported for other primate species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1997.tb00045.x 
PMID: 9379480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

