

3676. J Antibiot (Tokyo). 1997 May;50(5):390-4.

Biological activities of novel zaragozic acids, the potent inhibitors of squalene
synthase, produced by the fungus, Mollisia sp. SANK 10294.

Tanimoto T(1), Hamano K, Onodera K, Hosoya T, Kakusaka M, Hirayama T, Shimada Y, 
Koga T, Tsujita Y.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacology and Molecular Biology Research Laboratories, Sankyo Co., Ltd.,
Tokyo, Japan.

Four novel zaragozic acids, F-10863A, B, C and D, were isolated from a culture
broth of the fungus Mollisia sp. SANK 10294. F-10863 compounds contain a
4,6,7-trihydroxy-2,8-dioxyobicyclo-[3.2.1]octane-3,4,5-tricarboxyl ic acid core
like previously reported zaragozic acids, but the structures of the side chains
are different. Recently, it was found that F-10863A is identical to zaragozic
acid D3, while the other three are novel compounds. F-10863 compounds are potent 
inhibitors of squalene synthase like previously reported zaragozic acids, and,
furthermore, they exhibit serum cholesterol-lowering activity in vivo.

DOI: 10.7164/antibiotics.50.390 
PMID: 9207908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3677. Res Virol. 1997 May-Jun;148(3):191-206.

A human B-lymphoblastoid cell line constitutively producing Epstein-Barr
herpesvirus and JHK retrovirus.

Grossberg SE(1), Kushnaryov VM, Cashdollar LW, Raisch KP, Miller G, Sun HY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226,
USA.

The human B-lymphoblastoid cell line, designated JHK-3, with pre-B-cell
characteristics, chronically produces two viruses, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and
JHK virus, an apparently novel retrovirus. The JHK-3 cells are much more
productive of extracellular EBV than the high-producer marmoset line B95-8. The
extracellular virus of the JHK-3 EBV strain is relatively fragile, more broadly
dispersed in an ultracentrifuged sucrose gradient than the B95-8 EBV and more
susceptible to disruption by combined treatment with urea and dithiothreitol. By 
restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, the JHK-3 EBV strain resembles
the EBV strain FF-41. The JHK-3 cells also produce an incompletely characterized,
relatively fragile, enveloped, icosahedral RNA virus that contains
Mn(++)-dependent reverse transcriptase. JHK virions measure 85 nm in ultrathin
sections, much smaller than other Retroviridae. The JHK virus exhibits a
distinctive morphogenesis, most nearly resembling C-type retroviruses. The JHK-3 
cell line provides a human cell model for investigating virus/virus interactions 
and their pathogenetic affects on host cells which chronically and simultaneously
produce DNA and RNA viruses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0923-2516(97)83989-1 
PMID: 9201810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

