

3677. Res Virol. 1997 May-Jun;148(3):191-206.

A human B-lymphoblastoid cell line constitutively producing Epstein-Barr
herpesvirus and JHK retrovirus.

Grossberg SE(1), Kushnaryov VM, Cashdollar LW, Raisch KP, Miller G, Sun HY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226,
USA.

The human B-lymphoblastoid cell line, designated JHK-3, with pre-B-cell
characteristics, chronically produces two viruses, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and
JHK virus, an apparently novel retrovirus. The JHK-3 cells are much more
productive of extracellular EBV than the high-producer marmoset line B95-8. The
extracellular virus of the JHK-3 EBV strain is relatively fragile, more broadly
dispersed in an ultracentrifuged sucrose gradient than the B95-8 EBV and more
susceptible to disruption by combined treatment with urea and dithiothreitol. By 
restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, the JHK-3 EBV strain resembles
the EBV strain FF-41. The JHK-3 cells also produce an incompletely characterized,
relatively fragile, enveloped, icosahedral RNA virus that contains
Mn(++)-dependent reverse transcriptase. JHK virions measure 85 nm in ultrathin
sections, much smaller than other Retroviridae. The JHK virus exhibits a
distinctive morphogenesis, most nearly resembling C-type retroviruses. The JHK-3 
cell line provides a human cell model for investigating virus/virus interactions 
and their pathogenetic affects on host cells which chronically and simultaneously
produce DNA and RNA viruses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0923-2516(97)83989-1 
PMID: 9201810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3678. Hear Res. 1997 May;107(1-2):136-46.

Differences between guinea pig and rat in the dorsal cochlear nucleus: expression
of calcium-binding proteins by cartwheel and Purkinje-like cells.

Spatz WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Germany.

This study describes differences between guinea pig and rat in the
immunoreactivities for calbindin (CB-IR) and parvalbumin (PV-IR) in cartwheel
(CWC) and Purkinje-like (PLC) cells of the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). CWCs
are the most important inhibitory interneurons of the DCN. Their soma and
dendrites stain intensely for CB-IR in guinea pigs but only weakly and
incompletely in rats. In both species, the CWCs do not show PV-IR. PLCs, a rare
type of DCN cells often interpreted as displaced cerebellar Purkinje cells
misrouted during migration, are known from rat and mouse and are here described
for guinea pig DCN. PLCs are intensely and completely stained for CB-IR and PV-IR
in guinea pigs. In rats, they stain with similar completeness only for CB-IR,
PV-IR being weak and restricted to the cell's soma. Similar staining differences 
between the two species are seen with the cerebellar Purkinje cells, i.e., PLCs
resemble the cerebellar Purkinje cells more than do the CWCs. Based on the
present material (and preliminary findings in a primate (marmoset), we speculate 
that the PLCs have their place in the circuitry of the DCN receiving input via
parallel fibers, like the CWCs, and possibly projecting their axon onto the
cerebellum.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-5955(97)00029-4 
PMID: 9165354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

