

3678. Hear Res. 1997 May;107(1-2):136-46.

Differences between guinea pig and rat in the dorsal cochlear nucleus: expression
of calcium-binding proteins by cartwheel and Purkinje-like cells.

Spatz WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Germany.

This study describes differences between guinea pig and rat in the
immunoreactivities for calbindin (CB-IR) and parvalbumin (PV-IR) in cartwheel
(CWC) and Purkinje-like (PLC) cells of the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). CWCs
are the most important inhibitory interneurons of the DCN. Their soma and
dendrites stain intensely for CB-IR in guinea pigs but only weakly and
incompletely in rats. In both species, the CWCs do not show PV-IR. PLCs, a rare
type of DCN cells often interpreted as displaced cerebellar Purkinje cells
misrouted during migration, are known from rat and mouse and are here described
for guinea pig DCN. PLCs are intensely and completely stained for CB-IR and PV-IR
in guinea pigs. In rats, they stain with similar completeness only for CB-IR,
PV-IR being weak and restricted to the cell's soma. Similar staining differences 
between the two species are seen with the cerebellar Purkinje cells, i.e., PLCs
resemble the cerebellar Purkinje cells more than do the CWCs. Based on the
present material (and preliminary findings in a primate (marmoset), we speculate 
that the PLCs have their place in the circuitry of the DCN receiving input via
parallel fibers, like the CWCs, and possibly projecting their axon onto the
cerebellum.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-5955(97)00029-4 
PMID: 9165354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3679. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1997 May;281(2):746-52.

RPR 107393, a potent squalene synthase inhibitor and orally effective
cholesterol-lowering agent: comparison with inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase.

Amin D(1), Rutledge RZ, Needle SN, Galczenski HF, Neuenschwander K, Scotese AC,
Maguire MP, Bush RC, Hele DJ, Bilder GE, Perrone MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Biology, Rh√∂ne Poulenc Rorer, Collegeville,
Pennsylvania, USA.

Squalene synthase catalyzes the reductive dimerization of two molecules of
farnesyl pyrophosphate to form squalene and is the first committed step in sterol
synthesis. A specific inhibitor of squalene synthase would inhibit cholesterol
biosynthesis but not prevent the formation of other products of the isoprenoid
pathway, such as dolichol and ubiquinone. RPR 107393
[3-hydroxy-3-[4-(quinolin-6-yl)phenyl]-1-azabicyclo[2-2-2]octane dihydrochloride]
and its R and S enantiomers are potent inhibitors of rat liver microsomal
squalene synthase, with IC50 values of 0.6 to 0.9 nM. One hour after oral
administration to rats, RPR 107393 inhibited de novo [14C]cholesterol
biosynthesis from [14C]mevalonate in the liver with an ED50 value of 5 mg/kg.
Diacid metabolites of [14C]farnesyl pyrophosphate were identified after acid
treatment of the livers of these animals. These results support in vitro data
demonstrating that these compounds are inhibitors of squalene synthase. In rats, 
RPR 107393 (30 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d. for 2 days) reduced total serum cholesterol by <
or = 51%. In the same paradigm, the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor lovastatin failed
to lower serum cholesterol in rats. In marmosets, RPR 107393 (20 mg/kg b.i.d.)
reduced plasma cholesterol concentration by 50% after 1 week of administration;
this was greater than the reduction observed with lovastatin or pravastatin,
neither of which produced > 31% reduction in plasma cholesterol when administered
for 1 week at a dose of 50 mg/kg b.i.d. The R and S enantiomers of RPR 107393 (20
mg/kg p.o. q.d. for 7 days) reduced plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol by
50% and 43%, respectively, whereas high density lipoprotein cholesterol was
unchanged. In summary, RPR 107393 is a potent inhibitor of squalene synthase. It 
is an orally effective hypocholesterolemic agent in rats and marmosets that has
greater efficacy than lovastatin or pravastatin in the marmoset.


PMID: 9152381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

