

3679. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1997 May;281(2):746-52.

RPR 107393, a potent squalene synthase inhibitor and orally effective
cholesterol-lowering agent: comparison with inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase.

Amin D(1), Rutledge RZ, Needle SN, Galczenski HF, Neuenschwander K, Scotese AC,
Maguire MP, Bush RC, Hele DJ, Bilder GE, Perrone MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Biology, Rh√∂ne Poulenc Rorer, Collegeville,
Pennsylvania, USA.

Squalene synthase catalyzes the reductive dimerization of two molecules of
farnesyl pyrophosphate to form squalene and is the first committed step in sterol
synthesis. A specific inhibitor of squalene synthase would inhibit cholesterol
biosynthesis but not prevent the formation of other products of the isoprenoid
pathway, such as dolichol and ubiquinone. RPR 107393
[3-hydroxy-3-[4-(quinolin-6-yl)phenyl]-1-azabicyclo[2-2-2]octane dihydrochloride]
and its R and S enantiomers are potent inhibitors of rat liver microsomal
squalene synthase, with IC50 values of 0.6 to 0.9 nM. One hour after oral
administration to rats, RPR 107393 inhibited de novo [14C]cholesterol
biosynthesis from [14C]mevalonate in the liver with an ED50 value of 5 mg/kg.
Diacid metabolites of [14C]farnesyl pyrophosphate were identified after acid
treatment of the livers of these animals. These results support in vitro data
demonstrating that these compounds are inhibitors of squalene synthase. In rats, 
RPR 107393 (30 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d. for 2 days) reduced total serum cholesterol by <
or = 51%. In the same paradigm, the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor lovastatin failed
to lower serum cholesterol in rats. In marmosets, RPR 107393 (20 mg/kg b.i.d.)
reduced plasma cholesterol concentration by 50% after 1 week of administration;
this was greater than the reduction observed with lovastatin or pravastatin,
neither of which produced > 31% reduction in plasma cholesterol when administered
for 1 week at a dose of 50 mg/kg b.i.d. The R and S enantiomers of RPR 107393 (20
mg/kg p.o. q.d. for 7 days) reduced plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol by
50% and 43%, respectively, whereas high density lipoprotein cholesterol was
unchanged. In summary, RPR 107393 is a potent inhibitor of squalene synthase. It 
is an orally effective hypocholesterolemic agent in rats and marmosets that has
greater efficacy than lovastatin or pravastatin in the marmoset.


PMID: 9152381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3680. Mol Reprod Dev. 1997 May;47(1):113-9.

Fertilization-promoting peptide in reproductive tissues and semen of the male
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kennedy AM(1), Morrell JM, Siviter RJ, Cockle SM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Animal and Microbial Sciences, University of Reading, UK.

Fertilization-promoting peptide (FPP) is present in the prostate gland and semen 
of some mammals, and has been shown to enhance the fertilizing ability of both
epididymal mouse and ejaculated human spermatozoa. The novel peptide may prove of
importance for the treatment of some cases of male infertility, and a suitable
animal model would be useful to test this hypothesis. To this end, we examined
reproductive tissues and semen of the male marmoset for the presence of FPP.
Peptides were extracted from seminal plasma, testes, prostate, and bulbourethral 
glands of intact and castrated male marmosets. The peptides were identified by
ion-exchange chromatography followed by radioimmunoassay. The mean concentration 
of FPP immunoreactivity in semen from intact males was 58.7 nM (SE +/- 9.9 nM, n 
= 10), and anion-exchange chromatography revealed FPP as the only immunoreactive 
peptide present. Analysis of tissues revealed that FPP in semen was likely to be 
derived from the prostate gland, which contained this peptide as the major source
of immunoreactivity (10.86 pmol/gland; SE +/- 4.39 pmol/gland, n = 4). Only low
concentrations of FPP were detectable in the bulbourethral glands, and the
peptide was undetectable in the testis. Surprisingly, FPP was readily detectable 
in the seminal plasma from one castrated marmoset and was present in the prostate
gland from 3 castrates at levels which did not differ significantly from those in
intact animals (5.47 pmol/gland, SE +/- 1.64 pmol/gland, n = 3). Plasma
testosterone measurements indicated that residual circulatory androgens remained 
after castration, which may be consistent both with the maintenance of mating
behavior and the presence of prostatic FPP. We conclude that FPP is present
within the prostate gland and seminal plasma of the marmoset at concentrations
consistent with a role in male fertility in this species.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2795(199705)47:1<113::AID-MRD15>3.0.CO;2-2 
PMID: 9110322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

