

3684. Lab Anim Sci. 1997 Apr;47(2):138-42.

Hepatic hemosiderosis in common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus: effect of diet on 
incidence and severity.

Miller GF(1), Barnard DE, Woodward RA, Flynn BM, Bulte JW.

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Resources Program, National Center for Research Resources, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

We examined the effect of dietary iron concentration on the incidence of hepatic 
hemosiderosis in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and assessed the impact of
hemosiderosis on animal health. Thirteen young adult common marmosets were fed
nutritionally balanced natural-ingredient diets formulated to contain either 100 
or 500 ppm of iron. Six were fed the low-iron and seven received the high-iron
diet. Baseline blood values and liver iron content were determined for each
animal. Animals were weighted monthly, blood work (hematologic analysis, serum
iron concentration, total iron-binding capacity, percent of transferrin
saturation) was performed semi-annually, and liver biopsies for iron analysis
were obtained after marmosets had consumed the test diets for 13 months or at
necropsy. Midway in study, the high-iron diet was reformulated to contain 350 ppm
of iron because of the death of a male which had consumed that diet for 7 months.
Four of seven marmosets fed the high-iron diet died during the first year of the 
study, compared with one death in the low-iron cohort. The mean increase in liver
iron content of the marmosets fed the high-iron diet was 6,371 micrograms/g, dry 
weight analysis. In contrast the low-iron cohort had a mean decrease of 621.5
micrograms/g. These results indicate that liver iron content can be affected by
dietary iron intake. The increased mortality in the marmosets fed the high-iron
diet also suggests that hepatic hemosiderosis can be detrimental to marmoset
health.


PMID: 9150491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3685. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 1997 Apr;17(4):421-9.

The effects of SB 206284A, a novel neuronal calcium-channel antagonist, in models
of cerebral ischemia.

Wood NI(1), Barone FC, Benham CD, Brown TH, Campbell CA, Cooper DG, Evans ML,
Feuerstein GZ, Hamilton TC, Harries MH, King PD, Meakin JE, Murkitt KL, Patel SR,
Price WJ, Roberts JC, Rothaul AL, Samson NA, Smith SJ, Hunter AJ.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Harlow, Essex, United Kingdom.

The effects of SB 206284A, 1-[7-(4-benzyloxyphenoxy)heptyl] piperidine
hydrochloride, have been investigated in vitro on calcium and sodium currents in 
rat-cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones and potassium-mediated calcium
influx in rat synaptosomes. Cardiovascular hemodynamic effects in both
anesthetized and conscious rats, and neuroprotective activity in in vivo cerebral
ischemia models were also investigated. In the rat DRG cells, SB 206284A caused
almost complete block of the sustained inward Ca2+ current (IC50 = 2.4 microM),
suggesting that the compound is an effective blocker of slowly inactivating,
high-voltage calcium current. SB 206284A reduced locomotor hyperactivity in the
gerbil bilateral carotid artery occlusion model without affecting
ischemia-induced damage in the hippocampal CA1 region. In the rat middle cerebral
artery occlusion model, SB 206284A reduced lesion volume in the posterior
forebrain, and in the rat photochemical cortical lesion model, lesion volume was 
reduced even when treatment was delayed until 4 hours after occlusion. At
neuroprotective doses, SB 206284A had no cardiovascular effects. These findings
show that SB 206284A is a novel calcium channel antagonist that shows
neuroprotective properties.

DOI: 10.1097/00004647-199704000-00007 
PMID: 9143224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

