

3685. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 1997 Apr;17(4):421-9.

The effects of SB 206284A, a novel neuronal calcium-channel antagonist, in models
of cerebral ischemia.

Wood NI(1), Barone FC, Benham CD, Brown TH, Campbell CA, Cooper DG, Evans ML,
Feuerstein GZ, Hamilton TC, Harries MH, King PD, Meakin JE, Murkitt KL, Patel SR,
Price WJ, Roberts JC, Rothaul AL, Samson NA, Smith SJ, Hunter AJ.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Harlow, Essex, United Kingdom.

The effects of SB 206284A, 1-[7-(4-benzyloxyphenoxy)heptyl] piperidine
hydrochloride, have been investigated in vitro on calcium and sodium currents in 
rat-cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones and potassium-mediated calcium
influx in rat synaptosomes. Cardiovascular hemodynamic effects in both
anesthetized and conscious rats, and neuroprotective activity in in vivo cerebral
ischemia models were also investigated. In the rat DRG cells, SB 206284A caused
almost complete block of the sustained inward Ca2+ current (IC50 = 2.4 microM),
suggesting that the compound is an effective blocker of slowly inactivating,
high-voltage calcium current. SB 206284A reduced locomotor hyperactivity in the
gerbil bilateral carotid artery occlusion model without affecting
ischemia-induced damage in the hippocampal CA1 region. In the rat middle cerebral
artery occlusion model, SB 206284A reduced lesion volume in the posterior
forebrain, and in the rat photochemical cortical lesion model, lesion volume was 
reduced even when treatment was delayed until 4 hours after occlusion. At
neuroprotective doses, SB 206284A had no cardiovascular effects. These findings
show that SB 206284A is a novel calcium channel antagonist that shows
neuroprotective properties.

DOI: 10.1097/00004647-199704000-00007 
PMID: 9143224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3686. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1997 Apr;56(4):763-80.

Cognitive deficits induced by global cerebral ischaemia: prospects for transplant
therapy.

Hodges H(1), Nelson A, Virley D, Kershaw TR, Sinden JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK.

Global ischaemia induced by interruption of cerebral blood flow results in damage
to vulnerable cells, notably in the CA1 and hilar hippocampal fields, and is
frequently associated with memory deficits. This review examines cognitive
deficits that occur in animal models of global ischaemia in rats and monkeys, the
extent to which these deficits are associated with CA1 cell loss, and the
evidence for functional recovery following transplants of foetal CA1 cells and
grafts of conditionally immortalised precursor cells. In rats, impairments are
seen most consistently in tasks of spatial learning and spatial working memory
dependent on use of allocentric environmental cues. In monkeys, ischaemic
deficits have been shown to a moderate extent in delayed object recognition
tasks, but animals with a selective excitotoxic CA1 lesion show a profound
impairment in conditional discrimination tasks, suggesting that these may be a
more sensitive measure of ischaemic impairments. Several studies have reported
correlational links between the extent of CA1 cell loss following two or four
vessel occlusion (2 VO, 4 VO) in rats and behavioural impairments, but recent
findings indicate that at intermediate levels of damage these relationships are
weak and variable, and emerge clearly only when animals with maximal CA1 cell
loss are included, suggesting that the deficits involve more than damage to the
CA1 field. Nevertheless, ischaemic rats and CA1-lesioned marmosets with grafts of
foetal CA1 cells show substantial improvements; in rats these are not found with 
grafts from other hippocampal fields. Conditionally immortalised cell lines and
trophic grafts are currently being assessed for their functional potential in
animal models, because clinical use of foetal cells will not be practicable.
Recent findings suggest that an expanded population of neuroepithelial cells
derived from the conditionally immortalised H-2Kb-tsA58 transgenic mouse improve 
spatial learning as effectively as CA1 foetal grafts in rats subjected to 4 VO,
and clonal lines from the same source show similar promise. Lines derived from
precursor cells have the potential to develop into different types of cell
(neuronal or glial) depending on signals from the host brain. These cell lines
may therefore have the capacity to repair damaged host circuits more precisely
than is possible with foetal grafts, and offer a promising, approach both to
functional recovery and to elucidating graft-host interactions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(96)00424-8 
PMID: 9130304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

