

3687. Magn Reson Med. 1997 Apr;37(4):530-6.

Hepatic hemosiderosis in non-human primates: quantification of liver iron using
different field strengths.

Bulte JW(1), Miller GF, Vymazal J, Brooks RA, Frank JA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Diagnostic Radiology Research, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892-1074, USA.

Using a non-human primate model of idiopathic hemochromatosis,
hemosiderin-induced T2 shortening of the liver was assessed at nine different
field strengths over a range of 0.05 to 1.5 Tesla. The 1/T2 values increased
linearly with field strength, with all specimens having approximately the same
zero-field intercept. The slope of the field increase, termed "field-dependent T2
proton relaxation enhancement (PRE)", appeared to be proportional to the
chemically determined tissue iron content, viz. 10.8 s-1T-1(mg Fe/g wet
tissue)-1. The correlation between iron content and field-dependent T2 PRE (r =
0.94) was better than the correlation between iron content and 1/T2 values
obtained at single field strengths. For livers containing > or = 2 mg Fe/g wet
weight, biexponential T2 relaxation behavior emerged at higher field strengths,
with the short T2 component (intracellular water) exhibiting a linear dependence 
of 1/T2 on field, while T2 of the long component (extracellular/sinusoidal water)
was nearly field-independent. After maceration of the specimens, all T2
relaxation curves became monoexponential, including those for high iron content
at high field strengths. The present data suggest that the use of double-field MR
imaging to assess the field-dependent T2 PRE has potential for specific
quantification of (liver) tissue iron stores.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.1910370409 
PMID: 9094074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3688. J Biol Chem. 1997 Mar 28;272(13):8433-40.

Functional characterization and purification of an intracellular vitamin
D-binding protein in vitamin D-resistant new world primate cells. Amino acid
sequence homology with proteins in the hsp-70 family.

Gacad MA(1), Chen H, Arbelle JE, LeBon T, Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Cedars-Sinai Burns and Allen Research Institute, UCLA School of Medicine, Los 
Angeles, California 90048, USA.

Most genera of New World primates exhibit resistance to vitamin D. These monkeys 
harbor high circulating concentrations of the prohormone 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 
the active vitamin D hormone 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D. Previous work from this
laboratory indicated that resistance is associated with the overexpression of a
60-65-kDa intracellular protein that binds vitamin D metabolites competitively.
In the current studies 25-[3H]hydroxyvitamin D3 (25-OHD3) was used as a
competitive ligand to investigate the ability of a number of small lipid
molecules to interact with this intracellular vitamin D-binding protein (IDBP) in
post-nuclear extracts of a prototypical lymphoblast cell line from the common
marmoset, a vitamin D-resistant New World primate. Only those vitamin D
metabolites with a hydroxyl moiety in the C-25 position were bound by IDBP.
Disruption of the C-25 hydroxyl obviated binding, whereas more proximal
alterations in the vitamin D side chain did not. Modifications in the A-ring of
25-hydroxylated vitamin D metabolites, most specifically hydroxylation of C-1,
diminished but did not abolish ligand binding. Of more than two dozen other small
lipid molecules examined, only the C-19 17-hydroxysteroids, 17beta-estradiol and 
testosterone, and the C-21 steroid progesterone were found to be capable of
binding specifically to IDBP. Using a combination of physical and serial
chromatographic techniques, we enriched IDBP 25-OHD3 binding activity 17,588-fold
in extracts of B95-8 cells. Two-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide
gel electrophoresis of this purified fraction demonstrated a predominant 65-kDa
molecular species with a pI approximately 4.5. Seven different peptide fragments 
were isolated from the 65-kDa protein, each possessing sequence similarity to the
hsp-70 family of proteins. Ligand binding analyses confirmed that human inducibly
expressed hsp-70-bound 25-OHD3 with approximately similar affinity (
approximately 10(-7) M) as did purified IDBP. In summary, these results suggest a
novel action for the hsp-70 family of proteins as intracellular vitamin D- and
gonadal steroid hormone-binding molecules.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.272.13.8433 
PMID: 9079669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

