

3689. Virology. 1997 Mar 17;229(2):429-36.

Five new or recently discovered (GBV-A) virus species are indigenous to New World
monkeys and may constitute a separate genus of the Flaviviridae.

Bukh J(1), Apgar CL.

Author information: 
(1)Hepatitis Viruses Section, National Institute of Allergy and infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-0740, USA.

In previous studies, human hepatitis viruses have been experimentally transmitted
to New World monkeys of the genus Saguinus (tamarins). Recently, two
Flaviviridae-like agents (GBV-A and GBV-B) were identified in tamarins that
developed hepatitis following inoculation with serum of the 11th tamarin passage 
of a potentially new human hepatitis agent. However, it was not shown that these 
viruses originated from the initial inoculum. We here report the discovery of
indigenous species-specific viruses related to GBV-A in several species of New
World monkeys and suggest that GBV-A virus was fortuitously acquired during
passage in tamarins. Sera or plasma from 98 wild-caught New World monkeys
representing 10 different species was tested by RT-PCR with conserved degenerate 
primers to the 5' noncoding region of the genome. Viral sequences were identified
in 33 animals and sequence analysis was performed on the amplicons. In addition, 
the genomic region corresponding to the putative NS3 RNA helicase of GBV-A was
amplified from most positive animals and sequenced. We detected GBV-A-like
viruses in 13 (35%) of 37 S. mystax, 7 (78%) of 9 S. nigricollis, 3 (25%) of 12
S. labiatus, 2 (50%) of 4 S. oedipus, 2 (100%) of 2 Callithrix jacchus, and 6
(50%) of 12 Aotus trivirgatus monkeys. Each positive animal was infected with a
unique strain of the GBV-A-like viruses. Analysis of the 5' NC and NS3 helicase
sequences revealed that these viruses could be classified into 5 major genetic
groups with genetic distances equivalent to or greater than those found among
major genetic groups of hepatitis C virus. Species-specific GBV-A-like viruses
were found in S. mystax, S. nigricollis, S. oedipus, C. jacchus, and A.
trivirgatus species. The viruses specific for S. nigricollis were closely related
to GBV-A, suggesting that GBV-A was acquired by passage through this species
during the initial transmission studies. The natural history of the GBV-A-like
viruses was studied in serial serum samples from 9 S. mystax and 2 A. trivirgatus
monkeys. Each animal was chronically infected and the viral strain did not vary
during 9-27 months of follow-up. Finally, we demonstrated that four S. mystax
were positive upon arrival to the United States from the country of origin. No
apparent disease was associated with chronic infection of the GBV-A-like viruses.
In conclusion, many New World monkeys are persistently infected with indigenous
species-specific viruses that may represent a new genus within the virus family
Flaviviridae.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1997.8461 
PMID: 9126255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3690. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Mar 10;379(2):211-25.

Morphological analysis of the blue cone pathway in the retina of a New World
monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Ghosh KK(1), Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13, The University of Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia. krishna@physiol.usyd.edu.au

We have studied the components of the short wavelength-sensitive (SWS or "blue") 
cone pathway in the retina of a New World primate, the marmoset Callithrix
jacchus. Of particular interest was the small bistratified ganglion cell, which
has been identified in macaque monkey to be the morphological substrate of the
blue-ON cell (Dacey and Lee [1994] Nature 367:731-735). Small bistratified cells 
were intracellularly filled with Neurobiotin in an in vitro retinal wholemount
preparation. Their morphology, size, and level of dendritic stratification were
similar to their homologues in macaque and human retina. A number of different
antibodies were applied to vertical cryostat sections, some of which were cut
through the processes of injected small bistratified or parasol ganglion cells.
We used antibodies against cholecystokinin (CCK) to label blue cone bipolar
cells, and antibodies against the human SWS cone photopigment to label SWS cones.
Double-labelled preparations showed that blue cone bipolar cell dendrites contact
SWS cone pedicles, and the inner dendrites of the small bistratified cell are
costratified with the axon terminals of blue cone bipolar cells. A monoclonal
antibody against calbindin was used to label a subpopulation of bipolar cells
that stratifies in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer. The axon
terminals of these bipolar cells occasionally cross the outer dendrites of small 
bistratified cells and show extensive costratification with the dendrites of OFF 
parasol cells. We conclude that an SWS cone pathway with similar connectivity is 
a preserved feature of the primate visual system.


PMID: 9050786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

