

3694. Hemoglobin. 1997 Mar;21(2):143-53.

Identification of pre-gamma-globin.

Johnson RM(1), Buck S, Schneider H, Sampaio I, Gage DA, Shen TL, Schneider MP,
Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Wayne State Medical School, 
Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

A pre-gamma-globin species was identified by high performance liquid
chromatography in platyrrhine primates. Although pre-gamma-globin has not been
observed in human hemoglobin, its identification in platyrrhine hemoglobin was
facilitated by the functional inactivation of one of the duplicated gamma-globin 
genes in platyrrhines, which simplified the high performance liquid
chromatography elution pattern. Part, but not all, of the pre-gamma was
glutathionyl gamma 2-globin, and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass
spectrometry was used to demonstrate that the glutathionyl residue was located on
cysteine 93. As this residue is invariant in primates, it is predicted that the
formation of glutathionyl gamma-globin will be seen in all primate hemoglobins
under appropriate conditions.

DOI: 10.3109/03630269708997518 
PMID: 9101283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3695. J Clin Pharmacol. 1997 Mar;37(3):214-21.

Protein binding in plasma of valsartan, a new angiotensin II receptor antagonist.

Colussi DM(1), Parisot C, Rossolino ML, Brunner LA, Lef√®vre GY.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoires Ciba-Geigy, Bioanalytics and Pharmacokinetics, Rueil-Malmaison,
France.

The protein-binding characteristics of the angiotensin II receptor antagonist
valsartan were determined in vitro by equilibrium dialysis, using 14C-labeled
valsartan with serum from healthy donors, plasma from patients who had received
valsartan, serum or plasma from animals, and purified human plasma proteins. The 
binding of valsartan was high (96 +/- 2%) in human serum at concentrations
ranging from 0.05 micrograms/mL to 5 micrograms/mL. A comparable extent of
binding (85-99%) was recorded in plasma from patients after repeated
administration of valsartan. Albumin (binding 92%) is the main protein involved
in the binding to plasma proteins, while the binding to alpha 1-acid glycoprotein
was low (22%) and to gamma globulins, negligible. Although highly bound,
valsartan was not displaced in vitro by hydrochlorothiazide, diclofenac,
furosemide, and warfarin. A high extent of binding was found in rat, dog, and
rabbit serum and in marmoset plasma, while a lower binding was found in mouse
serum.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1552-4604.1997.tb04783.x 
PMID: 9089423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

