

3698. J Immunol. 1997 Feb 1;158(3):1201-7.

Characterization of the TCRB chain repertoire in the New World monkey Callithrix 
jacchus.

Uccelli A(1), Oksenberg JR, Jeong MC, Genain CP, Rombos T, Jaeger EE, Giunti D,
Lanchbury JS, Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143, USA.

Callithrix jacchus is an outbred New World primate characterized by a naturally
occurring bone marrow chimerism, restricted polymorphism at many MHC loci, and
unusual susceptibility to viral pathogens, adenocarcinoma, colitis, and,
following immunization with myelin antigens, a demyelinating disease of the
central nervous system closely resembling human multiple sclerosis. Here we
characterize the TCRB repertoire in this species, representing the first such
analysis in a New World monkey. Two TCRBC, 13 BJ, 2 BD, and 15 BV genes were
identified. Overall, a high degree of similarity with human TCRBV-D-J-C gene
sequences was observed, indicating a close phylogenetic relationship. Biased
usage in favor of genes from the TCRBC1-BJ1 cluster was present in 77% of
sequences, in contrast to preferential usage of BC2-BJ2 genes known to occur in
humans and mice. Complementarity-determining region 3 averaged 10 amino acids in 
length and were diverse. Framework regions of TCRBV genes were extensively
conserved. Phylogenetic analysis of TCRBV sequences from different species
indicated that TCR genes are highly stable across primates. Thus, a diverse TCRB 
repertoire is generated in C. jacchus despite the limited polymorphism of class I
MHC loci. Extensive homology to human TCR genes, natural chimerism, and
susceptibility to inflammatory disorders are characteristics of C. jacchus that
create a useful model system for the study of human autoimmunity.


PMID: 9013960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3699. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1997 Jan 15;807:567-70.

Escape from social suppression of sexual behavior and of ovulation in female
common marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Severin JM, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison
53715-1299, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1997.tb51970.x 
PMID: 9071400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

