

370. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 May;125:109832. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.109832. Epub
2020 Feb 1.

Comparison of the pharmacologic profiles of arginine vasopressin and oxytocin
analogs at marmoset, titi monkey, macaque, and human oxytocin receptors.

Pierce ML(1), French JA(2), Murray TF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, 2500
California Plaza, Omaha, NE, 68178, USA; Department of Pharmacology, Midwestern
University, 555 31St., Downers Grove, IL, 60515, USA. Electronic address:
MarshaPierce@creighton.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, 6001 Dodge St., Omaha,
NE, 68182, USA. Electronic address: jfrench@unomaha.edu.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, 2500
California Plaza, Omaha, NE, 68178, USA. Electronic address:
tfmurray@creighton.edu.

The oxytocin-arginine vasopressin (OT-AVP) ligand-receptor family influences a
variety of physiological, behavioral, and social behavioral processes in the
brain and periphery. The OT-AVP family is highly conserved in mammals, but recent
discoveries have revealed remarkable diversity in OT ligands and receptors in New
World Monkeys (NWMs) providing a unique opportunity to assess the effects of
genetic variation on pharmacological signatures of peptide ligands. The consensus
mammalian OT sequence has leucine in the 8th position (Leu8-OT), whereas a number
of NWMs, including the marmoset, have proline in the 8th position (Pro8-OT)
resulting in a more rigid tail structure. OT and AVP bind to OT's cognate
G-protein coupled receptor (OTR), which couples to various G-proteins (Gi/o, Gq, 
Gs) to stimulate diverse signaling pathways. CHO cells expressing marmoset
(mOTR), titi monkey (tOTR), macaque (qOTR), or human (hOTR) OT receptors were
used to compare AVP and OT analog-induced signaling. Assessment of Gq-mediated
increase in intracellular calcium (Ca2+) demonstrated that AVP was less potent
than OT analogs at OTRs from species whose endogenous ligand is Leu8-OT (tOTR,
qOTR, hOTR), relative to Pro8-OT. Likewise, AVP-induced membrane
hyperpolarization was less potent at these same OTRs. Evaluation of
(Ca2+)-activated potassium (K+) channels using the inhibitors apamin, paxilline, 
and TRAM-34 demonstrated that both intermediate and large conductance
Ca2+-activated K+ channels contributed to membrane hyperpolarization, with
different pharmacological profiles identified for distinct ligand-receptor
combinations. Understanding more fully the contributions of structure activity
relationships for these peptide ligands at vasopressin and OT receptors will help
guide the development of OT-mediated therapeutics.

Copyright © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.109832 
PMCID: PMC7196279
PMID: 32018219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.


371. Eur J Pharmacol. 2020 Apr 15;873:172957. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.172957. Epub 
2020 Jan 28.

Selective metabotropic glutamate receptor 2 positive allosteric modulation
alleviates L-DOPA-induced psychosis-like behaviours and dyskinesia in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Sid-Otmane L(1), Hamadjida A(2), Nuara SG(3), Bédard D(2), Gaudette F(4), Gourdon
JC(3), Michaud V(5), Beaudry F(6), Panisset M(7), Huot P(8).

Author information: 
(1)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Plateforme de Pharmacocinétique, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de 
l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, College of Pharmacy, University of
Florida, Lake Nona Campus, Orlando, FL, USA.
(6)Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animale du Québec, Département de
Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, Université de Montréal,
Saint-Hyacinthe, QC, Canada.
(7)Unité des troubles du mouvement André-Barbeau, Service de Neurologie,
Département de Médecine, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Département de Neurosciences, Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(8)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada; Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill
University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of
Neurology, Department of Neurosciences, McGill University Health Centre,
Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Psychosis and dyskinesia significantly diminish the quality of life of patients
with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Available treatment options are
unfortunately few and their use is limited by adverse effects. We have recently
shown that activation of metabotropic glutamate 2 and 3 (mGlu2/3) receptors
produced significant relief of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced
psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) and dyskinesia in experimental models of PD.
Here, using the highly-selective mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator (PAM)
LY-487,379, we seek to determine the contribution of selective mGlu2 activation
on both L-DOPA-induced PLBs and dyskinesia, in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate. We first
determined the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of LY-487,379 in the common marmoset,
following which we administered it (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or its vehicle to 6
MPTP-lesioned marmosets previously exposed to L-DOPA to elicit stable PLBs and
dyskinesia. We found that LY-487,379 provided a ≈45% reduction of the global PLBs
observed and reduced global dyskinesia score by ≈ 55%. Moreover, LY-487,379
enhanced the anti-parkinsonian effect of L-DOPA, by reducing global parkinsonian 
score by ≈ 15%. Our data suggest that selective mGlu2 positive allosteric
modulation with LY-487,379 may represent a potential therapeutic approach to
alleviate both L-DOPA-induced PLBs and dyskinesia in PD.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2020.172957 
PMID: 32004527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

