

3709. Am J Primatol. 1997;43(2):135-46.

Social context affects phee call production by nonreproductive common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland 20837,
USA. NORCROSJ@Ice.nichd.nih.gov

Common marmosets produce two variants of their long call (phee call) in different
situations. Intergroup calls are produced in territorial situations, and
intragroup separation calls are produced by marmosets isolated from group
members. Marmoset groups frequently include postpubertal, nonreproductive
members; their roles in the spontaneous production of territorial vocalizations
is unclear. This study analyzed the production of home cage phee calls by
nonreproductive, postpubertal marmosets while they were housed in their natal
groups and after pairing with an opposite-sex conspecific. Additionally, the
production of the separation phee call variant was assessed in both social
conditions. The results indicated that the marmosets rarely produced home cage,
or territorial, phee calls while they were natally housed. In contrast, both
males and females produced the territorial phee call at a much higher rate as
early as 4 days after pairing. Agematched females remaining in their natal groups
throughout the study produced home cage phee calls infrequently. Most marmosets
produced separation phee calls at a high rate after separation from either their 
natal group or a partner, suggesting that the makeup of a social group has little
effect on an animal's motivation to reunite with conspecifics. These results
suggest that the social environment has an important influence on the production 
of territorial phee calls.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)43:2<135::AID-AJP3>3.0.CO;2-Y 
PMID: 9327096  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3710. Am J Primatol. 1997;42(4):323-9.

Number of ovulations in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus): relation to
body weight, age and repeatability.

Tardif SD(1), Jaquish CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Ohio.
stardif@phoenix.kent.edu

The relation between number of ovulations and body weight, age or maternal
identity was examined in 69 ovarian cycles from 29 captive-born common marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Specifically, we addressed the following questions:
was there high repeatability of ovulation number? Most of the variation in
ovulation number was within, rather than between subjects. Repeatability in
number of ovulations was 0.081 (n = 20 females with 2-6 ovulatory cycles per
female); was age related to number of ovulations? There was no relation between
age and number of ovulations, either within or between subjects; and was weight
related to number of ovulations? Weight was related to number of ovulations. When
the relation between number of ovulations (1-2 versus 3-4) and weight was
examined through a logistic regression, there was a significant relation. Also,
of the 11 subjects which had a variable number of ovulations across cycles, 90.9%
were heavier when ovulating 3-4 than when ovulating 2. These results are
discussed as the basis for the proposal that callitrichid primates may have been 
selected for potential variation in reproductive output and that this variation
may be related to energy availability.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)42:4<323::AID-AJP7>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 9261513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

