

3710. Am J Primatol. 1997;42(4):323-9.

Number of ovulations in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus): relation to
body weight, age and repeatability.

Tardif SD(1), Jaquish CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Ohio.
stardif@phoenix.kent.edu

The relation between number of ovulations and body weight, age or maternal
identity was examined in 69 ovarian cycles from 29 captive-born common marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Specifically, we addressed the following questions:
was there high repeatability of ovulation number? Most of the variation in
ovulation number was within, rather than between subjects. Repeatability in
number of ovulations was 0.081 (n = 20 females with 2-6 ovulatory cycles per
female); was age related to number of ovulations? There was no relation between
age and number of ovulations, either within or between subjects; and was weight
related to number of ovulations? Weight was related to number of ovulations. When
the relation between number of ovulations (1-2 versus 3-4) and weight was
examined through a logistic regression, there was a significant relation. Also,
of the 11 subjects which had a variable number of ovulations across cycles, 90.9%
were heavier when ovulating 3-4 than when ovulating 2. These results are
discussed as the basis for the proposal that callitrichid primates may have been 
selected for potential variation in reproductive output and that this variation
may be related to energy availability.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)42:4<323::AID-AJP7>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 9261513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3711. Am J Primatol. 1997;42(4):269-80.

Interactions between infant growth and survival: evidence for selection on
age-specific body weight in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Jaquish CE(1), Tardif SD, Cheverud JM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Inherited Disease Research, NHGRI, NIH, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

The objective of this study is to investigate factors influencing infant survival
in captive common marmosets. We investigated the influence of age-specific
weight, litter size, caging, and the presence of helpers on survival to 6 months 
of age in 189 Callithrix jacchus infants. Infant survival was analyzed using Cox 
Proportional Hazards regression, and fitness functions were plotted to explore
the relationship between survival and growth. Results indicate that weights at
birth and 120 days significantly affect future survival probability. Litter size 
significantly influences survival prior to 60 days of age with larger litters
having poorer survival. Males and females did not have significantly different
survival and the presence of helpers in the group did not influence survival
probability. Patterns of survival with respect to age-specific weights suggest
stabilizing selection on birth weight and directional selection on weight at 120 
days of age.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)42:4<269::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-V 
PMID: 9261508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

