

3711. Am J Primatol. 1997;42(4):269-80.

Interactions between infant growth and survival: evidence for selection on
age-specific body weight in captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Jaquish CE(1), Tardif SD, Cheverud JM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Inherited Disease Research, NHGRI, NIH, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

The objective of this study is to investigate factors influencing infant survival
in captive common marmosets. We investigated the influence of age-specific
weight, litter size, caging, and the presence of helpers on survival to 6 months 
of age in 189 Callithrix jacchus infants. Infant survival was analyzed using Cox 
Proportional Hazards regression, and fitness functions were plotted to explore
the relationship between survival and growth. Results indicate that weights at
birth and 120 days significantly affect future survival probability. Litter size 
significantly influences survival prior to 60 days of age with larger litters
having poorer survival. Males and females did not have significantly different
survival and the presence of helpers in the group did not influence survival
probability. Patterns of survival with respect to age-specific weights suggest
stabilizing selection on birth weight and directional selection on weight at 120 
days of age.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)42:4<269::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-V 
PMID: 9261508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3712. Am J Primatol. 1997;42(4):253-67.

Social and reproductive conditions modulate urinary cortisol excretion in black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli).

Smith TE(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Nebraska Behavioral Biology Group, University of Nebraska at Omaha 68182, USA.
tsmith2@cwis.unomaha.edu

The links between psychosocial stress, social status, reproductive function, and 
urinary cortisol were assessed in social groups of black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix kuhli). Urinary cortisol excretion was monitored in cases of
intrafamily conflict ("sibling fights") and in daughters in four distinct social 
contexts: in the family group, while housed singly or in same-sex pairs, and
while paired with a male pairmate. Cortisol excretion was elevated in
participants in intra-family conflict on the day of and the day following the
conflict, relative to concentrations a week prior to or following the conflict.
Daughters in natal family groups had concentrations of cortisol that did not
differ from reproductively active adult females. This finding held for daughters 
who were either anovulatory or undergoing ovulatory cycles while in the natal
family group. Natal family members and male pairmates exerted buffering effects
on levels of activity in the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis (HPA) in female 
C. kuhli. Placing females in solitary housing led to significantly increased
cortisol excretion. In the 2 months subsequent to pairing with a male partner,
excreted cortisol concentrations in females declined significantly. Daughters
removed from their natal family group and housed with a sister did not exhibit
increased cortisol levels. These data reveal that activity in the (HPA) axis in
marmosets is sensitive to psychosocial stressors, and that urinary cortisol can
provide a useful quantitative measure of HPA reactivity. As in other
callitrichids, delayed breeding in daughters and reproductive anomalies in C.
kuhli appear to be mediated by mechanisms other than elevated HPA activity.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)42:4<253::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-W 
PMID: 9261507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

