

3712. Am J Primatol. 1997;42(4):253-67.

Social and reproductive conditions modulate urinary cortisol excretion in black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli).

Smith TE(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Nebraska Behavioral Biology Group, University of Nebraska at Omaha 68182, USA.
tsmith2@cwis.unomaha.edu

The links between psychosocial stress, social status, reproductive function, and 
urinary cortisol were assessed in social groups of black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix kuhli). Urinary cortisol excretion was monitored in cases of
intrafamily conflict ("sibling fights") and in daughters in four distinct social 
contexts: in the family group, while housed singly or in same-sex pairs, and
while paired with a male pairmate. Cortisol excretion was elevated in
participants in intra-family conflict on the day of and the day following the
conflict, relative to concentrations a week prior to or following the conflict.
Daughters in natal family groups had concentrations of cortisol that did not
differ from reproductively active adult females. This finding held for daughters 
who were either anovulatory or undergoing ovulatory cycles while in the natal
family group. Natal family members and male pairmates exerted buffering effects
on levels of activity in the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis (HPA) in female 
C. kuhli. Placing females in solitary housing led to significantly increased
cortisol excretion. In the 2 months subsequent to pairing with a male partner,
excreted cortisol concentrations in females declined significantly. Daughters
removed from their natal family group and housed with a sister did not exhibit
increased cortisol levels. These data reveal that activity in the (HPA) axis in
marmosets is sensitive to psychosocial stressors, and that urinary cortisol can
provide a useful quantitative measure of HPA reactivity. As in other
callitrichids, delayed breeding in daughters and reproductive anomalies in C.
kuhli appear to be mediated by mechanisms other than elevated HPA activity.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)42:4<253::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-W 
PMID: 9261507  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3713. Brain Res Bull. 1997;43(4):369-73.

Calbindin immunoreactivity delineates the circadian visual centers of the brain
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Costa MS(1), Britto LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil.

The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus and the thalamic pregeniculate nucleus
(which includes the intergeniculate leaflet) comprise the circadian visual system
in the primate brain. In this study, we used intraocular injections of cholera
toxin subunit B to identify those nuclei in the common marmoset brain, and
demonstrated that calbindin D-28k immunoreactivity apparently labels most neurons
in both the suprachiasmatic and pregeniculate nuclei. These data suggest that
calbindin D-28k could represent a reliable neuronal marker for structures of the 
circadian visual system in marmosets and provide anatomical information on the
primate equivalent of the rodent intergeniculate leaflet.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(96)00378-4 
PMID: 9241439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

