

3713. Brain Res Bull. 1997;43(4):369-73.

Calbindin immunoreactivity delineates the circadian visual centers of the brain
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Costa MS(1), Britto LR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
RN, Brazil.

The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus and the thalamic pregeniculate nucleus
(which includes the intergeniculate leaflet) comprise the circadian visual system
in the primate brain. In this study, we used intraocular injections of cholera
toxin subunit B to identify those nuclei in the common marmoset brain, and
demonstrated that calbindin D-28k immunoreactivity apparently labels most neurons
in both the suprachiasmatic and pregeniculate nuclei. These data suggest that
calbindin D-28k could represent a reliable neuronal marker for structures of the 
circadian visual system in marmosets and provide anatomical information on the
primate equivalent of the rodent intergeniculate leaflet.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(96)00378-4 
PMID: 9241439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3714. Brain Res Bull. 1997;43(2):197-208.

The distribution of p75 neurotrophin receptor-immunoreactive cells in the
forebrain of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Maclean CJ(1), Baker HF, Fine A, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, UK.

The distribution of neurones that could be stained immunohistochemically with
antibody to the p75 neurotrophin protein was studied in the forebrain of the
common marmoset. The p75-immunoreactive forebrain cells appear to correspond to
choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive (i.e., cholinergic) neurones. Two
populations of cells could be distinguished on the basis of the intensity of p75 
immunostaining. Moderately stained cells correspond to cholinergic interneurones 
of the caudate and putamen, while intensely stained cells correspond to the
cholinergic neurones projecting to the cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus, located
in the septum, diagonal band, and basal nucleus of Meynert. The distribution of
cells of the diagonal band/basal nucleus complex is more extensive in the
marmoset than in other primate species, extending into parts of the
postcommissural fornix via the posterior septum, and by small projections dorsal 
to the anterior commissure and via the thalamic fasciculus from the basal
nucleus; the posterior extent of the basal nucleus continues extensively into the
lamina between the globus pallidus and the putamen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(96)00441-8 
PMID: 9222533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

