

3716. Electroencephalogr Clin Neurophysiol. 1997 Jan;104(1):43-50.

Brain-stem auditory evoked potentials in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Harada T(1), Tokuriki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Physiology, Faculty of Agriculture, Yamaguchi
University, Japan.

Brain-stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) were recorded in 10 common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to investigate the effects of recording electrode 
configurations, stimulus rate, and stimulus frequency on BAEP wave forms and peak
latencies. Tone burst stimulations were used to evaluate the effects of pure tone
on BAEP wave forms. Five positive peaks superimposed on positive and negative
slow potentials were identified in the BAEP recorded at the linkage between the
vertex and the dorsal base of the ear ipsilateral to a monaural stimulus. When
the reference electrode was placed at the ipsilateral mastoid or the neck, the
amplitudes of positive and negative slow potentials and the incidence of wave I
increased. There were no significant changes in peak latencies of BAEP waves with
changes in stimulus rate from 5 to 20/s. It was possible to record the BAEPs in
response to tone burst stimulations at frequencies extending from 0.5 to 99 kHz. 
Wave I appeared apparently at high stimulus frequencies; while waves III to V, at
low frequencies. Wave II was recorded at frequencies ranging from 0.5 to 99 kHz
and comprised a superposition of 2 or 3 potentials.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-5597(96)96015-3 
PMID: 9076252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3717. Life Sci. 1997;60(10):773-85.

Comparative study on age-dependent development of surface receptors on peripheral
blood lymphocytes in children and young nonhuman primates (marmosets).

Foerster M(1), Delgado I, Abraham K, Gerstmayr S, Neubert R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Embryopharmacology, University Medical Center,
Free University Berlin, German.

General conformity was found concerning age-dependent changes in the major
subsets (CD4, CD8, CD2, CD20) and the adhesion molecules CD11a and CD29 on
peripheral blood lymphocytes in children and young marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). Differences exist in the expression of the surface receptors CD45RA and
CD56. Taking the total number of white blood cells into account, an age-related
increase in the absolute numbers of peripheral blood lymphocytes was found in
marmosets whereas in children, an age-dependent decrease was observed. The
definition of reference ranges for different stages of maturation in children and
young marmosets may serve as a basis on which comparative risk assessment of
possible effects on lymphocyte subsets after pre- or perinatal drug exposure can 
be estimated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(97)00005-2 
PMID: 9064482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

