

3717. Life Sci. 1997;60(10):773-85.

Comparative study on age-dependent development of surface receptors on peripheral
blood lymphocytes in children and young nonhuman primates (marmosets).

Foerster M(1), Delgado I, Abraham K, Gerstmayr S, Neubert R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Embryopharmacology, University Medical Center,
Free University Berlin, German.

General conformity was found concerning age-dependent changes in the major
subsets (CD4, CD8, CD2, CD20) and the adhesion molecules CD11a and CD29 on
peripheral blood lymphocytes in children and young marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). Differences exist in the expression of the surface receptors CD45RA and
CD56. Taking the total number of white blood cells into account, an age-related
increase in the absolute numbers of peripheral blood lymphocytes was found in
marmosets whereas in children, an age-dependent decrease was observed. The
definition of reference ranges for different stages of maturation in children and
young marmosets may serve as a basis on which comparative risk assessment of
possible effects on lymphocyte subsets after pre- or perinatal drug exposure can 
be estimated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(97)00005-2 
PMID: 9064482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3718. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(1):53-60.

Comparative chromosomal study of five taxa of genus Callithrix, group jacchus
(Platyrrhini, Primates).

Nagamachi CY(1), Pieczarka JC, Schwarz M, Barros RM, Mattevi MS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Gen√©tica, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre, Brazil.

The karyotypes of four marmoset species of the Callithrix jacchus group (C.
aurita, C. kuhlii, C. geoffroyi, and C. penicillata) were investigated. The
patterns of G-, C-, and NOR-bands of these karyotypes were compared with those of
C. jacchus, previously described, in order to clarify the taxonomic relationships
of this species group. All species present 2n = 46, 14 uni- and 30 biarmed
autosomes, a median size submetacentric X chromosome, and the same NOR-band
patterns. No rearrangement or constitutive heterochromatic variation
differentiate these species, which differ only in the morphology of the Y
chromosome. The data obtained indicate that, from the chromosomal point stand,
the marmoset species of C. jacchus group constitute a homogeneous clade.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:1<53::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 9064198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

