

3718. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(1):53-60.

Comparative chromosomal study of five taxa of genus Callithrix, group jacchus
(Platyrrhini, Primates).

Nagamachi CY(1), Pieczarka JC, Schwarz M, Barros RM, Mattevi MS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre, Brazil.

The karyotypes of four marmoset species of the Callithrix jacchus group (C.
aurita, C. kuhlii, C. geoffroyi, and C. penicillata) were investigated. The
patterns of G-, C-, and NOR-bands of these karyotypes were compared with those of
C. jacchus, previously described, in order to clarify the taxonomic relationships
of this species group. All species present 2n = 46, 14 uni- and 30 biarmed
autosomes, a median size submetacentric X chromosome, and the same NOR-band
patterns. No rearrangement or constitutive heterochromatic variation
differentiate these species, which differ only in the morphology of the Y
chromosome. The data obtained indicate that, from the chromosomal point stand,
the marmoset species of C. jacchus group constitute a homogeneous clade.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:1<53::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 9064198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3719. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(1):37-43.

Birth of offspring following artificial insemination in the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus.

Morrell JM(1), Nowshari M, Rosenbusch J, Nayudu PL, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum, Göttingen, Germany.

The objective of the study was to develop a method for artificial insemination
(AI) in the common marmoset, a New World primate species. For AI to be
successful, sperm must be deposited at an appropriate site and time in the female
reproductive tract, details of which are currently not available for Callitrichid
species. Epididymal sperm were deposited in the cervix of 18 marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) around the time of expected ovulation using either 3, 2, or 
1 inseminations. Six out of 18 females conceived, resulting in the first reported
births following AI in this species. These pregnancies show that the presence of 
coagulum in the vagina and the stimulus of the female reproductive tract by
natural mating are not essential for effective sperm transport in this species.
Although 3 different timing regimes for sperm deposition relative to ovulation
were employed, no protocol was demonstrably better than the others in terms of
number of conceptions. The proportions of motile, live, and morphologically
normal sperm in the suspensions used for AI were comparable with published values
for ejaculates from fertile male macaques. These preliminary results indicate
that births are possible following AI in marmosets: the technique could be used
to aid effective genetic management of the species and possibly to facilitate
captive breeding of endangered Callitrichids.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:1<37::AID-AJP3>3.0.CO;2-0 
PMID: 9064196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

