

3719. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(1):37-43.

Birth of offspring following artificial insemination in the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus.

Morrell JM(1), Nowshari M, Rosenbusch J, Nayudu PL, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The objective of the study was to develop a method for artificial insemination
(AI) in the common marmoset, a New World primate species. For AI to be
successful, sperm must be deposited at an appropriate site and time in the female
reproductive tract, details of which are currently not available for Callitrichid
species. Epididymal sperm were deposited in the cervix of 18 marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) around the time of expected ovulation using either 3, 2, or 
1 inseminations. Six out of 18 females conceived, resulting in the first reported
births following AI in this species. These pregnancies show that the presence of 
coagulum in the vagina and the stimulus of the female reproductive tract by
natural mating are not essential for effective sperm transport in this species.
Although 3 different timing regimes for sperm deposition relative to ovulation
were employed, no protocol was demonstrably better than the others in terms of
number of conceptions. The proportions of motile, live, and morphologically
normal sperm in the suspensions used for AI were comparable with published values
for ejaculates from fertile male macaques. These preliminary results indicate
that births are possible following AI in marmosets: the technique could be used
to aid effective genetic management of the species and possibly to facilitate
captive breeding of endangered Callitrichids.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:1<37::AID-AJP3>3.0.CO;2-0 
PMID: 9064196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3720. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(1):1-21.

Behavioral and social correlates of escape from suppression of ovulation in
female common marmosets housed with the natal family.

Saltzman W(1), Severin JM, Schultz-Darken NJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

Although female common marmosets typically do not breed while housed with their
natal families, up to half ovulate at least once while housed with the intact
natal family, and a similar proportion conceive if an unrelated adult male is
present in the group. In this study, we investigated the behavioral and social
correlates of escape from suppression of ovulation by daughters housed in intact 
natal families or in families in which the father had been replaced by an
unrelated adult male. Focal-animal behavioral data were collected from daughters 
that were (N = 7) or were not (N = 10) undergoing ovulatory cycles while housed
with the natal family and from daughters that were (N = 5) or were not (N = 3)
cycling or pregnant in families containing an unrelated male. Additionally, four 
cyclic and six acyclic females housed in intact natal families underwent
simulated "prospecting" tests. Cyclic and acyclic daughters in intact natal
families did not engage in sexual interactions with the father and showed few
differences from one another in their interactions with the parents. Moreover,
cyclic and acyclic daughters did not differ in their willingness to leave the
family for short periods or to investigate an unfamiliar family in "prospecting" 
tests. However, daughters that underwent ovarian cycles in the presence of an
unrelated male showed numerous behavioral differences from those in intact natal 
families, including frequent courtship and sexual behaviors with the male,
reduced affiliative interactions with the mother, and elevated frequencies of
aggressive display behavior. Moreover, these females were less likely to behave
submissively towards the mother or the adult male. These findings suggest that
both suppression of ovulation and inhibition of sexual behavior normally
contribute to reproductive failure in female marmosets living with their natal
families, and that the two components of suppression may become dissociated under
specific social conditions.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:1<1::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-0 
PMID: 9064194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

