

3720. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(1):1-21.

Behavioral and social correlates of escape from suppression of ovulation in
female common marmosets housed with the natal family.

Saltzman W(1), Severin JM, Schultz-Darken NJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

Although female common marmosets typically do not breed while housed with their
natal families, up to half ovulate at least once while housed with the intact
natal family, and a similar proportion conceive if an unrelated adult male is
present in the group. In this study, we investigated the behavioral and social
correlates of escape from suppression of ovulation by daughters housed in intact 
natal families or in families in which the father had been replaced by an
unrelated adult male. Focal-animal behavioral data were collected from daughters 
that were (N = 7) or were not (N = 10) undergoing ovulatory cycles while housed
with the natal family and from daughters that were (N = 5) or were not (N = 3)
cycling or pregnant in families containing an unrelated male. Additionally, four 
cyclic and six acyclic females housed in intact natal families underwent
simulated "prospecting" tests. Cyclic and acyclic daughters in intact natal
families did not engage in sexual interactions with the father and showed few
differences from one another in their interactions with the parents. Moreover,
cyclic and acyclic daughters did not differ in their willingness to leave the
family for short periods or to investigate an unfamiliar family in "prospecting" 
tests. However, daughters that underwent ovarian cycles in the presence of an
unrelated male showed numerous behavioral differences from those in intact natal 
families, including frequent courtship and sexual behaviors with the male,
reduced affiliative interactions with the mother, and elevated frequencies of
aggressive display behavior. Moreover, these females were less likely to behave
submissively towards the mother or the adult male. These findings suggest that
both suppression of ovulation and inhibition of sexual behavior normally
contribute to reproductive failure in female marmosets living with their natal
families, and that the two components of suppression may become dissociated under
specific social conditions.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:1<1::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-0 
PMID: 9064194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3721. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(3):229-45.

Rate of metabolism in the smallest simian primate, the pygmy marmoset (Cebuella
pygmaea).

Genoud M(1), Martin RD, Glaser D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de zoologie et d'écologie animale, Université de Lausanne,
Switzerland.

Rate of metabolism was measured with six adult pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea)
at regulated ambient temperatures ranging between 20 degrees C and 35 degrees C. 
A novel combined nest box and metabolic chamber was designed to allow nighttime
measurements on immobile animals in their home cage without disturbance. The
basal rate of metabolism (BMR) was 98 ml O2 h-1, representing 74% of the value
expected from the equation of McNab [Quarterly Review of Biology 63:25-54, 1988] 
relative to body mass. The thermoneutral zone was approximately 27-34 degrees C. 
Below the lower critical temperature (27-28 degrees C), thermal conductance (12.9
ml O2 h-1 degree C-1) was close to the predicted value. Body temperature ranged
between 34.9 degrees C and 35.5 degrees C at night. When two animals rested
together overnight in the nest box, the lower critical temperature was slightly
lowered, and individual energy expenditure at 20-21 degrees C was reduced by
about 34%. The basal rate of metabolism of C. pygmaea is much lower than reported
in an earlier study based on daytime measurements but agrees with values reported
from a more recent study conducted at night with a classical metabolic chamber.
In order to compare the BMR of C. pygmaea with that of other primates, 23 species
were included in a comparative study taking into account both phylogeny and body 
mass (independent contrasts approach). The scaling exponent of BMR to body mass
obtained was indistinguishable from that published for eutherian mammals in
general. Cebuella and Callithrix exhibit the lowest basal rates known for
simians. This trait may possibly be linked to the natural diet, which includes a 
large proportion of gums that are difficult to digest, but additional metabolic
studies on primates are needed for further examination of its adaptive
significance.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:3<229::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 9057967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

