

3721. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(3):229-45.

Rate of metabolism in the smallest simian primate, the pygmy marmoset (Cebuella
pygmaea).

Genoud M(1), Martin RD, Glaser D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de zoologie et d'écologie animale, Université de Lausanne,
Switzerland.

Rate of metabolism was measured with six adult pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea)
at regulated ambient temperatures ranging between 20 degrees C and 35 degrees C. 
A novel combined nest box and metabolic chamber was designed to allow nighttime
measurements on immobile animals in their home cage without disturbance. The
basal rate of metabolism (BMR) was 98 ml O2 h-1, representing 74% of the value
expected from the equation of McNab [Quarterly Review of Biology 63:25-54, 1988] 
relative to body mass. The thermoneutral zone was approximately 27-34 degrees C. 
Below the lower critical temperature (27-28 degrees C), thermal conductance (12.9
ml O2 h-1 degree C-1) was close to the predicted value. Body temperature ranged
between 34.9 degrees C and 35.5 degrees C at night. When two animals rested
together overnight in the nest box, the lower critical temperature was slightly
lowered, and individual energy expenditure at 20-21 degrees C was reduced by
about 34%. The basal rate of metabolism of C. pygmaea is much lower than reported
in an earlier study based on daytime measurements but agrees with values reported
from a more recent study conducted at night with a classical metabolic chamber.
In order to compare the BMR of C. pygmaea with that of other primates, 23 species
were included in a comparative study taking into account both phylogeny and body 
mass (independent contrasts approach). The scaling exponent of BMR to body mass
obtained was indistinguishable from that published for eutherian mammals in
general. Cebuella and Callithrix exhibit the lowest basal rates known for
simians. This trait may possibly be linked to the natural diet, which includes a 
large proportion of gums that are difficult to digest, but additional metabolic
studies on primates are needed for further examination of its adaptive
significance.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:3<229::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 9057967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3722. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(3):179-93.

Development of an enzyme-immunoassay (EIA) for the measurement of
follicle-stimulating-hormone (FSH) in Callitrichid primates using a monoclonal
antibody against the human-FSH-beta-subunit.

Rosenbusch J(1), Dias JA, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany.

Despite the importance of Callitrichid primates in both biomedical and
conservation research, practical and reliable immunoassays for the measurement of
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) have not yet been described. A panel of
monoclonal antibodies against specific peptide fragments within either the alpha 
or beta subunit of human FSH was evaluated for their ability to recognize FSH
from Callitrichid and other New World primates. One of these, monoclonal antibody
46.3h6.b7 raised against human FSH, was selected due to its ability to recognize 
marmoset monkey FSH and its low crossreactivity with other gonadotrophins. The
antibody formed the basis of an enzymeimmunoassay using a highly purified human
urinary FSH (Metrodin, Serono) preparation coupled to biotin as label and
unmodified as standard. After 24 h incubation, antibody bound label was
visualized by addition of streptavidin-peroxidase followed by the appropriate
substrate. Parallelism was obtained between the standard and dilutions of
pituitary extracts, urine and plasma from the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) as well as from two tamarin species (Saguinus fuscicollis and S.
oedipus) and one squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus). Profiles of plasma and
urinary FSH during the follicular phase are shown for two individual marmosets.
The ability to measure FSH in Callitrichidae provides new opportunities for
studies of the reproductive biology of these New World primate species.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:3<179::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-U 
PMID: 9057964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

