

3724. Vis Neurosci. 1997 Jan-Feb;14(1):125-40.

The morphology and distribution of horizontal cells in the retina of a New World 
monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus: a comparison with macaque monkey.

Chan TL(1), Goodchild AK, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The morphology and distribution of horizontal cells was studied in the retina of 
a New World monkey, the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, and compared with that of
the Old World macaque monkey. Horizontal cells in macaque and marmoset were
either labelled with the carbocyanine dye, DiI, and then photoconverted, or were 
labelled by intracellular injection with Neurobiotin. The marmoset has two types 
of horizontal cell, H1 and H2, which have dendritic and axonal morphology similar
to their counterparts in Old World monkeys and human. The dendritic-field size of
both cell types increases with distance from the fovca. Both types make contact
with the vast majority of the cones within their dendritic field. The dendrites
of H1 cells in marmoset contact almost twice as many cones as H1 cells in macaque
at an equivalent eccentricity. With increasing distance from the fovea, H1 cells 
make contact with more cones but have, on average, fewer terminal knobs inserted 
in each cone. The increase in dendritic-field area of H1 cells is balanced by a
decrease in spatial density (from 4500 cells/mm2 at 25 deg eccentricity to 1000
cells/mm2 in far peripheral retina), so coverage of the retina remains fairly
constant, between 5 and 8. Overall, the results show that the qualitative
morphological properties, as well as quantitative population properties of
horizontal cells, are common to both New World and Old World primates.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800008828 
PMID: 9057275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3725. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(2):129-39.

Age of epiphyseal closure in tamarins and marmosets.

Kohn LA(1), Olson P, Cheverud JM.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Occupational Therapy, Washington University School of Medicine, St.
Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Estimates of the chronological age for animals of unknown age provide useful
information for medical, demographic, and evolutionary studies. Skeletal
development, as indicated by epiphyseal closure, can be used to estimate an
animal's chronological age or specify its stage of development. Many studies of
Primate skeletal development have used animals of unknown age, with the order of 
epiphyseal closure providing a relative age for each animal. This study examines 
the age of epiphyseal closure at 22 epiphyseal sites using animals of known age
at death in three calitrichid species (Saguinus fuscicollis, Saguinus oedipus,
and Callithrix jacchus). The observed average age of epiphyseal closure is
similar in these tamarins and marmosets. There is a significant difference in
rate of development between the species. Regression equations can predict the age
of unknown animals to within 4.8 months for S. fuscicollis, 8.6 months for S.
oedipus, and 7.6 months for C. jacchus (twice the standard error of the
estimate). These age estimates allow us to determine if an animal is relatively
mature or immature, but are largely unacceptable for studies in which precise age
estimates are necessary. The order of epiphyseal closure is similar across 11
monkey species (using additional data from published literature) and supports the
suggestion of a general pattern in Primate skeletal development.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:2<129::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 9050370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

