

3728. J Gen Virol. 1997 Jan;78 ( Pt 1):97-106.

Sequence divergence of measles virus haemagglutinin during natural evolution and 
adaptation to cell culture.

Rima BK(1), Earle JA, Baczko K, ter Meulen V, Liebert UG, Carstens C, Carabaña J,
Caballero M, Celma ML, Fernandez-Muñoz R.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology and Biochemistry, The Queen's University of Belfast, UK.
b.rima@qub.ac.uk

Phylogenetic analysis of the sequence of the H gene of 75 measles virus (MV)
strains (32 published and 43 new sequences) was carried out. The lineage groups
described from comparison of the nucleotide sequences encoding the C-terminal
regions of the N protein of MV were the same as those derived from the H gene
sequences in almost all cases. The databases document a number of distinct
genotype switches that have occurred in Madrid (Spain). Well-documented is the
complete replacement of lineage group C2, the common European genotype at that
time, with that of group D3 around the autumn of 1993. No further isolations of
group C2 took place in Madrid after this time. The rate of mutation of the H gene
sequences of MV genotype D3 circulating in Madrid from 1993 to 1996 was very low 
(5 x 10(-4) per annum for a given nucleotide position). This is an order of
magnitude lower than the rates of mutation observed in the HN genes of human
influenza A viruses. The ratio of expressed over silent mutations indicated that 
the divergence was not driven by immune selection in this gene. Variations in
amino acid 117 of the H protein (F or L) may be related to the ability of some
strains to haemagglutinate only in the presence of salt. Adaptation of MV to
different primate cell types was associated with very small numbers of mutations 
in the H gene. The changes could not be predicted when virus previously grown in 
human B cell lines was adapted to monkey Vero cells. In contrast, rodent
brain-adapted viruses displayed a lot of amino acid sequence variation from
normal MV strains. There was no convincing evidence for recombination between MV 
genotypes.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-78-1-97 
PMID: 9010291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3729. Biol Reprod. 1997 Jan;56(1):238-46.

Maturation, fertilization, and development of marmoset monkey oocytes in vitro.

Gilchrist RB(1), Nayudu PL, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen, Germany.
rgilchrist@medicine.adelaide.edu.au

This study was conducted to investigate 1) the capacity of in vitro-matured (IVM)
marmoset oocytes to be fertilized and to support embryonic development in vitro
and 2) oocyte meiotic maturation in relation to in vivo FSH administration,
follicle size, and oocyte-cumulus cell status. Pairs of ovaries were collected on
Day 4 of the follicular phase from adult females receiving either 1) human FSH (3
IU; n = 5) or 2) control (saline; n = 5) daily for 4 days. Antral follicles were 
excised from ovaries and separated into classes according to size: class 1
(660-840 microm), class 2 (> 840-1000 microm), class 3 (> 1000-1400 microm), and 
class 4 (> 1400 microm). A total of 823 partially naked and cumulus-enclosed
oocytes (CEOs) were released from follicles and cultured in vitro. Cumulus cells 
remaining after 22 h were removed, metaphase II (MII) oocytes were inseminated
with epididymal sperm, and resulting embryos were cultured until developmental
arrest. Fluorescence microscopy was used to assess oocyte meiotic and embryo
developmental progression. Oocyte germinal vesicle breakdown (GVB)- and
MII-competencies increased significantly with follicular size (p < 0.01 and p <
0.0001, respectively), although they were independent of oocyte-cumulus cell
associations. After 24 and 32 h in vitro, 69% and 93%, respectively, of CEOs with
MII competence had completed meiotic maturation, and the rate of nuclear
maturation increased progressively with follicle size (p < 0.01) and with the
association of cumulus cells (p < 0.01). In vivo FSH priming slightly improved
oocyte GVB- and MII-competencies (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively) and
decreased the time required to achieve MII (p < 0.01). IVM oocytes from all
follicle sizes fertilized (78-92%) in vitro, with 27% developing to morula- and
4% to blastocyst-stage embryos. This study demonstrates for the first time that
IVM New World primate oocytes are able to support advanced preimplantation
embryonic development in vitro. Oocyte meiotic competence and the time course of 
nuclear maturation are profoundly influenced by their follicular origin, and
marginally by FSH treatment.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod56.1.238 
PMID: 9002655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

