

3729. Biol Reprod. 1997 Jan;56(1):238-46.

Maturation, fertilization, and development of marmoset monkey oocytes in vitro.

Gilchrist RB(1), Nayudu PL, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.
rgilchrist@medicine.adelaide.edu.au

This study was conducted to investigate 1) the capacity of in vitro-matured (IVM)
marmoset oocytes to be fertilized and to support embryonic development in vitro
and 2) oocyte meiotic maturation in relation to in vivo FSH administration,
follicle size, and oocyte-cumulus cell status. Pairs of ovaries were collected on
Day 4 of the follicular phase from adult females receiving either 1) human FSH (3
IU; n = 5) or 2) control (saline; n = 5) daily for 4 days. Antral follicles were 
excised from ovaries and separated into classes according to size: class 1
(660-840 microm), class 2 (> 840-1000 microm), class 3 (> 1000-1400 microm), and 
class 4 (> 1400 microm). A total of 823 partially naked and cumulus-enclosed
oocytes (CEOs) were released from follicles and cultured in vitro. Cumulus cells 
remaining after 22 h were removed, metaphase II (MII) oocytes were inseminated
with epididymal sperm, and resulting embryos were cultured until developmental
arrest. Fluorescence microscopy was used to assess oocyte meiotic and embryo
developmental progression. Oocyte germinal vesicle breakdown (GVB)- and
MII-competencies increased significantly with follicular size (p < 0.01 and p <
0.0001, respectively), although they were independent of oocyte-cumulus cell
associations. After 24 and 32 h in vitro, 69% and 93%, respectively, of CEOs with
MII competence had completed meiotic maturation, and the rate of nuclear
maturation increased progressively with follicle size (p < 0.01) and with the
association of cumulus cells (p < 0.01). In vivo FSH priming slightly improved
oocyte GVB- and MII-competencies (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively) and
decreased the time required to achieve MII (p < 0.01). IVM oocytes from all
follicle sizes fertilized (78-92%) in vitro, with 27% developing to morula- and
4% to blastocyst-stage embryos. This study demonstrates for the first time that
IVM New World primate oocytes are able to support advanced preimplantation
embryonic development in vitro. Oocyte meiotic competence and the time course of 
nuclear maturation are profoundly influenced by their follicular origin, and
marginally by FSH treatment.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod56.1.238 
PMID: 9002655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3730. Clin Microbiol Rev. 1997 Jan;10(1):19-34.

Biology of Isospora spp. from humans, nonhuman primates, and domestic animals.

Lindsay DS(1), Dubey JP, Blagburn BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn University,
Alabama 36849-5519, USA. lindsds@vetmed.auburn.edu

Coccidial parasites of the genus Isospora cause intestinal disease in several
mammalian host species. These protozoal parasites have asexual and sexual stages 
within intestinal cells of their hosts and produce an environmentally resistant
cyst stage, the oocyst. Infections are acquired by the ingestion of infective
(sporulated) oocysts in contaminated food or water. Some species of mammalian
Isospora have evolved the ability to use paratenic (transport) hosts. In these
cases, infections can be acquired by ingestion of an infected paratenic host.
Human intestinal isosporiasis is caused by Isospora belli. Symptoms of I. belli
infection in immunocompetent patients include diarrhea, steatorrhea, headache,
fever, malaise, abdominal pain, vomiting, dehydration, and weight loss, blood is 
not usually present in the feces. The disease is often chronic, with parasites
present in the feces or biopsy specimens for several months to years. Recurrences
are common, Symptoms are more severe in AIDS patients, with the diarrhea being
more watery. Extraintestinal stages of I. belli have been observed in AIDS
patients but not immunocompetent patients. Treatment of I. belli infection with
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole usually results in a rapid clinical response.
Maintenance treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is needed because
relapses often occur once treatment is stopped.

DOI: 10.1128/CMR.10.1.19 
PMCID: PMC172913
PMID: 8993857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

