

3737. Anesthesiology. 1996 Dec;85(6):1454-61.

Cysteine conjugate beta-lyase-dependent biotransformation of the cysteine
S-conjugates of the sevoflurane degradation product compound A in human, nonhuman
primate, and rat kidney cytosol and mitochondria.

Iyer RA(1), Anders MW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Rochester, Department of Pharmacology, New York 14642, USA.

BACKGROUND: 2-(Fluoromethoxy)-1,1,3,3,3-pentafluoro-1-propene (compound A) is a
fluorinated alkene formed by the degradation of sevoflurane in the anesthesia
circuit. Compound A is toxic to the kidneys in rats and undergoes
glutathione-dependent metabolism in vivo. Several nephrotoxic halogenated alkenes
also undergo cysteine conjugate beta-lyase-dependent biotransformation. These
experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that cysteine S-conjugates of
compound A undergo beta-lyase-dependent biotransformation.
METHODS: S-[2-(Fluoromethoxy)-1,1,3,3,3-pentafluoropropyl]-L-cysteine 4,
S-[2-(fluoromethoxy)-1,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-1-propenyl]-L-cysteine 5, and
S-(2-chloro-1,1,2-trifluoroethyl)-L-cysteine 11 were incubated with rat, human,
and nonhuman primate (cynomolgus, rhesus, and marmoset) kidney cytosol and
mitochondria. beta-Lyase activity was determined by measuring pyruvate formation.
RESULTS: Compound A-derived conjugates 4 and 5 as well as conjugate 11, a
positive control, were substrates for cytosolic and mitochondrial beta-lyase from
human, nonhuman primate, and rat kidney. For all substrates, beta-lyase activity 
was highest in the rat and lowest in the human and was higher in cytosol than in 
mitochondria. Conjugate 11 was a much better substrate than conjugates 4 or 5.
The biotransformation of conjugates 4, 5, and 11 was inhibited by the beta-lyase 
inhibitor (aminooxy)acetic acid and was stimulated by the amino group acceptor
2-keto-4-methylthiolbutyric acid, indicating a role for beta-lyase.
CONCLUSIONS: These data confirm the presence of beta-lyase activity in human and 
rat kidney and show that activity is also present in kidney tissue from nonhuman 
primates. The data also show that compound A-derived conjugates 4 and 5 undergo
beta-lyase-catalyzed biotransformation. beta-Lyase activity in rat and nonhuman
primate kidney tissue was 8 to 30 times and one- to three times, respectively,
higher than in human kidney tissue.

DOI: 10.1097/00000542-199612000-00028 
PMID: 8968194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3738. Methods. 1996 Dec;10(3):420-34.

Allergic Encephalomyelitis in Common Marmosets: Pathogenesis of a Multiple
Sclerosis-like Lesion

Genain CP(1), Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, California, 
94143-0435

Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an autoimmune disease of the
central nervous system that has been extensively studied as a model for the human
demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS). Here we describe the
characteristics of a novel form of EAE developed in a nonhuman primate. In
Callithrix jacchus marmosets (C. jacchus), immunization with whole brain white
matter induces a primary demyelinating disease with a relapsing-remitting chronic
course, closely resembling human MS. In these animals, the MS-like lesion results
from a complex immune response requiring both disease-inducing T lymphocytes and 
pathogenic antibody. T lymphocytes reactive against myelin basic protein are
capable of mediating the inflammatory component of marmoset EAE. Demyelination,
on the other hand, is antibody mediated. The quantitatively minor myelin protein 
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is an important antigen in this system,
as immunization against MOG, or passive transfer of anti-MOG antibodies,
reproduces the core features of the disease induced with whole white matter.
Advantages of the C. jacchus model of EAE for the study of MS include the
clinical and pathologic similarity between the two conditions, the natural bone
marrow chimerism in C. jacchus permitting adoptive transfer of T lymphocytes
between siblings, and the similarity of immune and nervous system genes and
proteins between human and nonhuman primates. A diverse immune response to
multiple myelin antigens appears to be responsible for the MS-like lesion in C.
jacchus, a finding that parallels emerging concepts of the pathogenesis of human 
MS.

DOI: 10.1006/meth.1996.0120 
PMID: 8954853 

