

3739. Brain Res. 1996 Nov 25;741(1-2):185-96.

1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced neurotoxicity in non-human
primates is antagonized by pretreatment with nimodipine at the nigral, but not at
the striatal level.

Kupsch A(1), Sautter J, Schwarz J, Riederer P, Gerlach M, Oertel WH.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Klinikum Grosshadern, Department of Neurology, 
MÃ¼nchen, Germany. akupsch@ukrv.de

The neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) has been shown
to induce parkinsonism in man and non-human primates. Hypotheses concerning the
mechanism of action of MPTP have been related to the pathogenesis of nigral cell 
death in Parkinson's disease. For instance, alterations of calcium influxes have 
been reported to be implicated in both MPTP-induced parkinsonism and Parkinson's 
disease. Recently, we reported that nimodipine, a blocker of L-type calcium
channels, prevents dopaminergic MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in C57B1/6 black mice.
The present study extended these rodent findings to the non-human primate model
of Parkinson's disease and assessed the effects of nimodipine, continuously
applied by pellet for 18 days, on behavioural, biochemical and histological
parameters, following systemic application of MPTP in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). The experimental design involved five groups of common
marmosets and a total of 24 animals. Monkeys assigned to group I (n = 4) received
subcutaneously implanted vehicle pellets 7 days prior to subcutaneous saline
injections (control). Monkeys of group II (n = 4) were treated with nimodipine
pellets (80 mg) and saline injections. Marmosets in group III (n = 8) were
treated with vehicle pellets and received 4 times MPTP (MPTP-HCl, 2 mg/kg body
weight subcutaneously, separated by an interval of 24 h for a total of 4 days).
Monkeys in group IV (n = 4) and V (n = 4) were treated as group-III animals
except for the implantation of nimodipine pellets (80 mg and 120 mg,
respectively) 7 days prior to toxin exposure. In common marmosets MPTP induced
severe parkinsonian symptoms, a pronounced dopamine depletion in the
caudate-putamen (more than 99% of control) and a loss of tyrosine hydroxylase
immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra (50% percent of control) 7 days
after MPTP-administration. Pretreatment with nimodipine (120 mg pellets) did
neither attenuate the behavioural impairments in MPTP-treated animals nor
antagonize the striatal neurotoxin-induced dopamine depletion, but almost
completely prevented (in a dose-dependent manner) the MPTP-induced decrease of
nigral tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells. These data suggest that
application of nimodipine, during the observation period of 7 days, protects
against MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in common marmosets at the cellular nigral
level, but not at the synaptic striatal level, implicating differential
mechanisms of actions of MPTP-induced neurotoxicity at the nigral versus the
striatal level.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(96)00917-1 
PMID: 9001722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3740. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1996 Nov 14;1298(1):131-40.

Inducibility of cytochromes P-450 by dioxin in liver and extrahepatic tissues of 
the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Schulz TG(1), Neubert D, Davies DS, Edwards RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
London, UK.

Cytochrome P-450 induction was investigated in the marmoset monkey, a non-human
primate, using dioxins as inducing agents. Animals received a single subcutaneous
dose of 1.6 nmol tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin or tetrabromodibenzo-p-dioxin/kg
body weight. Microsomal fractions were prepared from liver, lung and kidney, and 
homogenates were prepared from gut and adrenal glands. Anti-peptide antibodies
which bind to CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 in human were used to identify
related forms in the marmoset. The results indicate that CYP1A2 is constitutively
expressed in liver, but not in lung, kidney, gut or adrenal gland and that CYP1A1
is not expressed in any of these tissues in untreated animals. Treatment with
dioxin induced both CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 in liver, but only CYP1A1 in lung. No
induction of CYP1A1 or CYP1A2 was found in kidney, small intestine or adrenal
glands. Methoxy-, ethoxy-, pentoxy- and benzoyloxyresorufin O-dealkylases and
high affinity phenacetin O-deethylase activities were induced in the liver,
whereas ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activities
were not affected by dioxin treatment. High-affinity phenacetin O-deethylase and 
CYP1A2 apoprotein were detected only in liver, consistent with this activity
being specifically catalysed by CYP1A2. Furafylline was found to be a competitive
inhibitor of methoxyresorufin O-demethylase activity with a Ki of 10 microM. In
the lung the induction of CYP1A1 was accompanied by 15- and 23-fold increases in 
ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and methoxyresorufin O-demethylase activities,
respectively, suggesting that both activities are catalysed by CYP1A1. In
contrast, there was no induction of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity in lung
or liver showing that, unlike in many other species, marmoset CYP1A1 does not
catalyse this reaction efficiently. The expression, distribution, induction and
substrate specificities of marmoset monkey P-450 enzymes differ from the
situation found in rodents and other species, demonstrating that caution has to
be exercised when making cross-species extrapolations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4838(96)88917-5 
PMID: 8948497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

