

374. J Neurophysiol. 2020 Mar 1;123(3):896-911. doi: 10.1152/jn.00614.2019. Epub 2020 
Jan 22.

Single-unit activity in marmoset posterior parietal cortex in a gap saccade task.

Ma L(1), Selvanayagam J(2), Ghahremani M(2), Hayrynen LK(1), Johnston KD(3),
Everling S(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada.
(2)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Departments of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Brain and Mind Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada.

Abnormal saccadic eye movements can serve as biomarkers for patients with several
neuropsychiatric disorders. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is becoming 
increasingly popular as a nonhuman primate model to investigate the cortical
mechanisms of saccadic control. Recently, our group demonstrated that
microstimulation in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) of marmosets elicits
contralateral saccades. Here we recorded single-unit activity in the PPC of the
same two marmosets using chronic microelectrode arrays while the monkeys
performed a saccadic task with gap trials (target onset lagged fixation point
offset by 200 ms) interleaved with step trials (fixation point disappeared when
the peripheral target appeared). Both marmosets showed a gap effect, shorter
saccadic reaction times (SRTs) in gap vs. step trials. On average, stronger
gap-period responses across the entire neuronal population preceded shorter SRTs 
on trials with contralateral targets although this correlation was stronger among
the 15% "gap neurons," which responded significantly during the gap. We also
found 39% "target neurons" with significant saccadic target-related responses,
which were stronger in gap trials and correlated with the SRTs better than the
remaining neurons. Compared with saccades with relatively long SRTs, short-SRT
saccades were preceded by both stronger gap-related and target-related responses 
in all PPC neurons, regardless of whether such response reached significance. Our
findings suggest that the PPC in the marmoset contains an area that is involved
in the modulation of saccadic preparation.NEW & NOTEWORTHY As a primate model in 
systems neuroscience, the marmoset is a great complement to the macaque monkey
because of its unique advantages. To identify oculomotor networks in the
marmoset, we recorded from the marmoset posterior parietal cortex during a
saccadic task and found single-unit activities consistent with a role in saccadic
modulation. This finding supports the marmoset as a valuable model for studying
oculomotor control.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00614.2019 
PMID: 31967927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Trends Neurosci. 2020 Feb;43(2):115-126. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2019.12.006. Epub
2020 Jan 16.

A Hierarchy of Autonomous Systems for Vocal Production.

Zhang YS(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA. Electronic address: yz9@princeton.edu.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA;
Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ
08544, USA. Electronic address: asifg@princeton.edu.

Vocal production is hierarchical in the time domain. These hierarchies build upon
biomechanical and neural dynamics across various timescales. We review studies in
marmoset monkeys, songbirds, and other vertebrates. To organize these data in an 
accessible and across-species framework, we interpret the different timescales of
vocal production as belonging to different levels of an autonomous systems
hierarchy. The first level accounts for vocal acoustics produced on short
timescales; subsequent levels account for longer timescales of vocal output. The 
hierarchy of autonomous systems that we put forth accounts for vocal patterning, 
sequence generation, dyadic interactions, and context dependence by sequentially 
incorporating central pattern generators, intrinsic drives, and sensory signals
from the environment. We then show the framework's utility by providing an
integrative explanation of infant vocal production learning in which social
feedback modulates infant vocal acoustics through the tuning of a drive signal.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2019.12.006 
PMCID: PMC7213988
PMID: 31955902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

