

3740. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1996 Nov 14;1298(1):131-40.

Inducibility of cytochromes P-450 by dioxin in liver and extrahepatic tissues of 
the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Schulz TG(1), Neubert D, Davies DS, Edwards RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
London, UK.

Cytochrome P-450 induction was investigated in the marmoset monkey, a non-human
primate, using dioxins as inducing agents. Animals received a single subcutaneous
dose of 1.6 nmol tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin or tetrabromodibenzo-p-dioxin/kg
body weight. Microsomal fractions were prepared from liver, lung and kidney, and 
homogenates were prepared from gut and adrenal glands. Anti-peptide antibodies
which bind to CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 in human were used to identify
related forms in the marmoset. The results indicate that CYP1A2 is constitutively
expressed in liver, but not in lung, kidney, gut or adrenal gland and that CYP1A1
is not expressed in any of these tissues in untreated animals. Treatment with
dioxin induced both CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 in liver, but only CYP1A1 in lung. No
induction of CYP1A1 or CYP1A2 was found in kidney, small intestine or adrenal
glands. Methoxy-, ethoxy-, pentoxy- and benzoyloxyresorufin O-dealkylases and
high affinity phenacetin O-deethylase activities were induced in the liver,
whereas ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activities
were not affected by dioxin treatment. High-affinity phenacetin O-deethylase and 
CYP1A2 apoprotein were detected only in liver, consistent with this activity
being specifically catalysed by CYP1A2. Furafylline was found to be a competitive
inhibitor of methoxyresorufin O-demethylase activity with a Ki of 10 microM. In
the lung the induction of CYP1A1 was accompanied by 15- and 23-fold increases in 
ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and methoxyresorufin O-demethylase activities,
respectively, suggesting that both activities are catalysed by CYP1A1. In
contrast, there was no induction of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity in lung
or liver showing that, unlike in many other species, marmoset CYP1A1 does not
catalyse this reaction efficiently. The expression, distribution, induction and
substrate specificities of marmoset monkey P-450 enzymes differ from the
situation found in rodents and other species, demonstrating that caution has to
be exercised when making cross-species extrapolations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4838(96)88917-5 
PMID: 8948497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3741. Behav Processes. 1996 Nov;38(2):183-91.

Temporal and structural features of infant calls in relation to caregiving
behaviour in common marmosets, Callithrix j. jacchus.

Geiss S(1), Schrader L.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Verhaltensbiologie, FU Berlin, Haderslebener Straβe 9, D-12163
Berlin, Germany.

The role of infants in the communal rearing system of marmosets and tamarins has 
received little attention although their demands may not be complied by
inadequate helpers. As acoustic signalling plays an important role in their
social communication, it is expected to be an effective way for infants to signal
their demand for care. As a first approach, this study focussed on the use and
quality of 'tsik' calls given by infants of common marmosets (Callithrix j.
jacchus) in the context of caregiving. The acoustic and non-acoustic behaviour of
a group of common marmosets were recorded during the first two weeks of the life 
of two infants (twins). Vocalizations were classified, and the structure of the
infants' 'tsik' calls was quantified by measuring specific signal parameters.
Infants gave 'tsik' calls in close temporal relation to caregiving behaviour.
Specific parameters covaried with the subsequent behaviour of potential
caretakers. Values of call duration, start frequency, peak frequency, and range
were lower when infants' calls were followed by no reaction or an approach of
group members, whereas these parameters showed higher values when followed by a
transfer of infants. Our results suggest that the actual demand of infants is
encoded in the variations of 'tsik' calls.

DOI: 10.1016/s0376-6357(96)00022-8 
PMID: 24896080 

