

3741. Behav Processes. 1996 Nov;38(2):183-91.

Temporal and structural features of infant calls in relation to caregiving
behaviour in common marmosets, Callithrix j. jacchus.

Geiss S(1), Schrader L.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Verhaltensbiologie, FU Berlin, Haderslebener Straβe 9, D-12163
Berlin, Germany.

The role of infants in the communal rearing system of marmosets and tamarins has 
received little attention although their demands may not be complied by
inadequate helpers. As acoustic signalling plays an important role in their
social communication, it is expected to be an effective way for infants to signal
their demand for care. As a first approach, this study focussed on the use and
quality of 'tsik' calls given by infants of common marmosets (Callithrix j.
jacchus) in the context of caregiving. The acoustic and non-acoustic behaviour of
a group of common marmosets were recorded during the first two weeks of the life 
of two infants (twins). Vocalizations were classified, and the structure of the
infants' 'tsik' calls was quantified by measuring specific signal parameters.
Infants gave 'tsik' calls in close temporal relation to caregiving behaviour.
Specific parameters covaried with the subsequent behaviour of potential
caretakers. Values of call duration, start frequency, peak frequency, and range
were lower when infants' calls were followed by no reaction or an approach of
group members, whereas these parameters showed higher values when followed by a
transfer of infants. Our results suggest that the actual demand of infants is
encoded in the variations of 'tsik' calls.

DOI: 10.1016/s0376-6357(96)00022-8 
PMID: 24896080 


3742. Toxicol Pathol. 1996 Nov-Dec;24(6):707-9.

Clinical pathologic changes in two marmosets with wasting syndrome.

Logan AC(1), Khan KN.

Author information: 
(1)Searle R&D, Skokie, Illinois 60077, USA.

Two sexually mature marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) showing clinical signs similar
to those seen in wasting marmoset syndrome (weight loss, decreased muscle mass,
and alopecia) were evaluated for clinical and anatomic pathologic changes. The
most prominent clinical pathologic alterations included macrocytic normochromic
anemia, hypoproteinemia, hypoalbuminemia, elevated serum aspartate
aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels, and previously unreported
changes of thrombocytosis. The principal gross and histopathologic finding was
chronic colitis, which appeared to be the most important contributing factor to
the development of wasting syndrome in these marmosets.

DOI: 10.1177/019262339602400605 
PMID: 8994297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

