

3742. Toxicol Pathol. 1996 Nov-Dec;24(6):707-9.

Clinical pathologic changes in two marmosets with wasting syndrome.

Logan AC(1), Khan KN.

Author information: 
(1)Searle R&D, Skokie, Illinois 60077, USA.

Two sexually mature marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) showing clinical signs similar
to those seen in wasting marmoset syndrome (weight loss, decreased muscle mass,
and alopecia) were evaluated for clinical and anatomic pathologic changes. The
most prominent clinical pathologic alterations included macrocytic normochromic
anemia, hypoproteinemia, hypoalbuminemia, elevated serum aspartate
aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels, and previously unreported
changes of thrombocytosis. The principal gross and histopathologic finding was
chronic colitis, which appeared to be the most important contributing factor to
the development of wasting syndrome in these marmosets.

DOI: 10.1177/019262339602400605 
PMID: 8994297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3743. J Hered. 1996 Nov-Dec;87(6):456-60.

Heteroduplex mobility assays (HMAs) and analogous sequence analysis of a
cytochrome b region indicate phylogenetic relationships of selected
callitrichids.

Moreira MA(1), Almeida CA, Canavez F, Olicio R, Seuánez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Section, Instituto Nacional de Câncer, Praça da Cruz Vemelha, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.

Heteroduplex mobility assays (HMAs) of a cytochrome b region were used for
estimating genetic distances and phylogenetic relationships between some selected
neotropical primates of the families Callitrichidae (marmosets and tamarins) and 
Cebidae [capuchin monkey, (Cebus apella)], and man (Homo sapiens). HMA distances 
were found to be strongly correlated to analogous estimates derived from DNA
sequence data. Phylogenetic trees obtained by HMAs and sequence analyses showed
similar topologies with almost identical intraspecific, intrageneric, and
intergeneric relationships. The applicability of HMAs is assessed relative to
different levels of molecular and organismal diversity.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jhered.a023037 
PMID: 8981764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

