

3745. Biol Pharm Bull. 1996 Nov;19(11):1429-33.

Stereoselectivity in bunitrolol 4-hydroxylation in liver microsomes from
marmosets and Japanese monkeys.

Narimatsu S(1), Gotoh M, Masubuchi Y, Horie T, Ohmori S, Kitada M, Kageyama T,
Asaoka K, Yamamoto I, Suzuki T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biopharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chiba
University, Japan.

The stereoselectivity in 4-hydroxylation of bunitrolol (BTL), a
beta-adrenoreceptor blocking agent, was examined in liver microsomes from monkeys
(marmosets and Japanese monkeys) and compared with the results of human liver
microsomes. The formation of (+)-4-OH-BTL from (+)-BTL from (+)-BTL was
significantly higher than that of (-)-4-OH-BTL from (-)-BTL in the liver
microsomal fractions from the two kinds of monkeys. The 4-OH-BTL-forming activity
from racemic BTL was significantly lower than from enantiomeric BTL, indicating a
possible metabolic interaction between BTL enantiomers. The in vitro profiles
observed in the monkeys were very similar to those in humans, but the
stereoselectivity in BTL metabolism [(+)-BTL > (-)-BTL] in the primates was found
to be reverse to that in rats [S. Narimatsu et al., Anal. Biochem., 222, 256-261 
(1994)]. The 4-OH-BTL-forming activity from BTL enantiomers was significantly
suppressed by quinidine and quinine, while the former was more potent than the
latter, and also by alpha-naphthoflavone. Furthermore, the activity was also
suppressed by antisera against rat cytochromes P450-2D2 and -1A2 in
concentration-dependent manners. However, kinetics showed that enantiomeric BTL
4-hydroxylation was monophasic in liver microsomes from marmosets of both genders
and from male Japanese monkeys. These results suggest that cytochrome P450-2D and
-1A enzymes with similar Km values are involved in BTL 4-hydroxylation in monkey 
liver microsomes.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.19.1429 
PMID: 8951158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3746. J Med Virol. 1996 Nov;50(3):263-71.

Immunisation of common marmosets with vaccinia virus expressing Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) gp340 and challenge with EBV.

Mackett M(1), Cox C, Pepper SD, Lees JF, Naylor BA, Wedderburn N, Arrand JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Paterson Institute for Cancer Research,
Christie Hospital NHS Trust, Withington, Manchester, England.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the cause of infectious mononucleosis and is
associated with a variety of life-threatening diseases in humans. Therefore the
development of an effective vaccine is an important objective. Many of the
initial studies of vaccine efficacy analyse the ability of vaccine preparations
to prevent the induction of lymphomas in cottontop tamarins by the B95-8 strain
of EBV. We used a vaccinia virus recombinant expressing gp340, vMA1, tested
previously in the cotton-top tamarin, to evaluate a common marmoset model in
which the challenge virus, M81, resembles more closely the wild-type strains of
EBV in the general population than does the standard B95-8 strain. We
characterised the M81 strain of EBV with respect to the sequence of its gp340/220
gene and in regard to the presence of a region deleted in B95-8. Replication of
the challenge virus in the group vaccinated with vMA1 was decreased when compared
to control groups.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9071(199611)50:3<263::AID-JMV9>3.0.CO;2-7 
PMID: 8923292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

