

3749. Ophthalmologe. 1996 Oct;93(5):581-5.

[Localization of cAMP-selective phosphodiesterase in the mammalian eye by
(3H)-rolipram].

[Article in German]

Liekfeld A(1), Kaulen P, Kahle G, Wollensak J.

Author information: 
(1)Augenklinik Virchow-Klinikum, Humboldt-Universit√§t, Berlin.

It has been shown that inhibition of phosphodiesterase (PDE) or an increase in
intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) can lower the intraocular
pressure in mammalian eyes. The PDE inhibitor rolipram binds with high affinity
to a cAMP-dependent PDE. In the following study, receptors for rolipram in the
mammalian eye are determined by autoradiography. About 1050 histological sections
of rabbit (albino and pigmented), rat, monkey (baboon and marmoset) and human
eyes were examined concerning rolipram-binding sites in different structures. The
highest specific binding of rolipram to the ciliary body epithelium was seen in
human, rabbit and baboon eyes. Marmoset eyes showed the highest specific binding 
in the ciliary body muscle, rat eyes in the retina. Specific binding was
consistently high in the ciliary body epithelium and therefore at the site of
aqueous humor formation. Because of these results and the known mode of action of
rolipram, one can assume a close connection between rolipram-binding sites and
the regulation of intraocular pressure.

DOI: 10.1007/s003470050043 
PMID: 9004885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3750. Lab Anim. 1996 Oct;30(4):317-26.

The effects of cage size and complexity on the behaviour of captive common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus jacchus.

Kitchen AM(1), Martin AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia.

Conditions of captivity of primates used in biomedical research may have
deleterious effects on the welfare of the animals and consequently on the
reliability of the research. We investigated the effects of cage size and cage
complexity, two fundamental characteristics of captive conditions, on the
behaviour of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus). We found an
increase in the general level of activity and significant variation in the
frequencies of specific behaviours with an increase in cage size and also with
cage complexity. Stereotyped behaviours, which occurred in the small cages, were 
never exhibited in the large cages. The effect of the novelty of the changed
conditions was also assessed and found to be significant for some behaviours. We 
also measured the time taken to capture an animal, a task frequently performed by
the animal technician, under the various cage conditions. Capture time increased 
significantly in the larger cages, but the overall effect of the changes to the
marmosets' housing conditions on the animal technician's work was not regarded as
substantial. We conclude that the welfare of captive marmosets is enhanced by the
provision of larger and more complex cages, and that such cages do not
significantly affect the efficiency of the research laboratory.

DOI: 10.1258/002367796780739853 
PMID: 8938618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

