

3750. Lab Anim. 1996 Oct;30(4):317-26.

The effects of cage size and complexity on the behaviour of captive common
marmosets, Callithrix jacchus jacchus.

Kitchen AM(1), Martin AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia.

Conditions of captivity of primates used in biomedical research may have
deleterious effects on the welfare of the animals and consequently on the
reliability of the research. We investigated the effects of cage size and cage
complexity, two fundamental characteristics of captive conditions, on the
behaviour of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus). We found an
increase in the general level of activity and significant variation in the
frequencies of specific behaviours with an increase in cage size and also with
cage complexity. Stereotyped behaviours, which occurred in the small cages, were 
never exhibited in the large cages. The effect of the novelty of the changed
conditions was also assessed and found to be significant for some behaviours. We 
also measured the time taken to capture an animal, a task frequently performed by
the animal technician, under the various cage conditions. Capture time increased 
significantly in the larger cages, but the overall effect of the changes to the
marmosets' housing conditions on the animal technician's work was not regarded as
substantial. We conclude that the welfare of captive marmosets is enhanced by the
provision of larger and more complex cages, and that such cages do not
significantly affect the efficiency of the research laboratory.

DOI: 10.1258/002367796780739853 
PMID: 8938618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3751. Ann Anat. 1996 Oct;178(5):437-41.

Stereology of the myocardium in two species of Callithrix (Callitrichidae,
primates).

Burity CH(1), Mandarim-de-Lacerda CA, Pissinatti A.

Author information: 
(1)State University of Rio de Janeiro (UERJ), Laboratory of Morphometry and
Cardiovascular Morphology, Brazil.

The majority of studies on cardiac morphology have concentrated on Old World
monkeys. Ten marmoset hearts of the genus Callithrix were studied (5 hearts of C.
jacchus and 5 of C. penicillata), dissected and fixed in a 10% buffered
formaldehyde solution, pH 7.2. Unbiased stereological estimates were obtained
from isotropic uniform random sections of the myocardium. For stereological
quantification the myocardium was regarded as consisting of cardiac myocytes and 
interstitium. The volume density (Vv) was determined by point counting. We used
the disector method to obtain the numerical density of the cardiac myocytes
(Nv[nuclei]). Myocardial stereological differences between the two species of
marmoset were not statistically significant. We can therefore determine the
pooled Vv[myocyte] and Nv[nuclei] as 68.6% and 41.6% (10(3)/mm3) respectively.
The values found for Vv[myocyte] and Nv[nuclei] in the marmoset are respectively 
about 23.0 and 92.0% greater than those of the baboon, and respectively 57.3 and 
45.5% greater than those in man. In contrast, the mean myocyte volume in the
marmoset is not significantly different to that of man but is almost 36.0% less
than that of the baboon.

DOI: 10.1016/s0940-9602(96)80134-8 
PMID: 8931855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

