

3751. Ann Anat. 1996 Oct;178(5):437-41.

Stereology of the myocardium in two species of Callithrix (Callitrichidae,
primates).

Burity CH(1), Mandarim-de-Lacerda CA, Pissinatti A.

Author information: 
(1)State University of Rio de Janeiro (UERJ), Laboratory of Morphometry and
Cardiovascular Morphology, Brazil.

The majority of studies on cardiac morphology have concentrated on Old World
monkeys. Ten marmoset hearts of the genus Callithrix were studied (5 hearts of C.
jacchus and 5 of C. penicillata), dissected and fixed in a 10% buffered
formaldehyde solution, pH 7.2. Unbiased stereological estimates were obtained
from isotropic uniform random sections of the myocardium. For stereological
quantification the myocardium was regarded as consisting of cardiac myocytes and 
interstitium. The volume density (Vv) was determined by point counting. We used
the disector method to obtain the numerical density of the cardiac myocytes
(Nv[nuclei]). Myocardial stereological differences between the two species of
marmoset were not statistically significant. We can therefore determine the
pooled Vv[myocyte] and Nv[nuclei] as 68.6% and 41.6% (10(3)/mm3) respectively.
The values found for Vv[myocyte] and Nv[nuclei] in the marmoset are respectively 
about 23.0 and 92.0% greater than those of the baboon, and respectively 57.3 and 
45.5% greater than those in man. In contrast, the mean myocyte volume in the
marmoset is not significantly different to that of man but is almost 36.0% less
than that of the baboon.

DOI: 10.1016/s0940-9602(96)80134-8 
PMID: 8931855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3752. Behav Neurosci. 1996 Oct;110(5):872-86.

Primate analogue of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test: effects of excitotoxic
lesions of the prefrontal cortex in the marmoset.

Dias R(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

Using a primate analogue of the Wisconsin Card Sort Test, this study
demonstrated, for the first time, that lesions of the prefrontal cortex in
monkeys produce a qualitatively similar impairment in attentional set-shifting to
that seen following prefrontal cortical damage in humans. Although damage to the 
prefrontal cortex did not disrupt the ability of marmosets, a New World monkey,
to maintain an attentional set, it did disrupt their ability to shift an
attentional set. It also impaired their performance on discrimination reversal,
object retrieval, and spatial delayed response, consistent with the effects of
prefrontal damage in Old World monkeys. Comparison of the cognitive processes
underlying discrimination reversal, object retrieval, and attentional
set-shifting reveals the various types of inhibitory control provided by the
prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1037//0735-7044.110.5.872 
PMID: 8918991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

