

3755. Am J Pathol. 1996 Oct;149(4):1369-79.

Biochemical and morphological characterization of vascular and lymphocytic
interleukin-4 receptors.

Schnyder B(1), Lugli SM, Schnyder-Candrian S, Eng VM, Moser R, Banchereau J,
Ryffel B, Car BD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology-ETH,
Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The distribution of the interleukin (IL)-4 receptor in normal human and common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) tissues was examined by immunofluorescence and flow
cytometry using monoclonal antibodies specific for the human IL-4 receptor to
gain further insight into IL-4-mediated inflammatory and immunological events.
IL-4 receptor positivity was unequivocally demonstrated on lymphocytes,
predominantly T cells, and on blood vessels in many tissues. Vascular IL-4
receptor immunofluorescence consisted of a strong smooth muscle cell positivity
and weaker positive staining of capillary and venular endothelial cells.
Subnanomolar concentrations of IL-4 induced a genistein-sensitive up-regulation
of VCAM-1 in vascular cell cultures. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha induced a
genistein-resistant up-regulation of VCAM-1. IL-4 strongly induced expression of 
the IL-4 receptor on splenocytes (T lymphocytes) but not on vascular smooth
muscle or endothelial cell cultures. Receptor cross-linking to [125I]IL-4
revealed a 65- to 75-kDa accessory receptor subunit consistent with a recently
cloned IL-13 receptor associated with the IL-4 receptor on both vascular
endothelial and smooth muscle cells. The demonstration of a vascular distribution
pattern for the IL-4 receptor in addition to expression on lymphocytes suggests
that vascular functional alterations, transduced through a unique IL-4 receptor
complex (the type II IL-4 receptor), may be of importance during immunological
and allergic inflammatory events.


PMCID: PMC1865187
PMID: 8863684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3756. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1996 Sep 17;93(19):10477-82.

CP-154,526: a potent and selective nonpeptide antagonist of corticotropin
releasing factor receptors.

Schulz DW(1), Mansbach RS, Sprouse J, Braselton JP, Collins J, Corman M,
Dunaiskis A, Faraci S, Schmidt AW, Seeger T, Seymour P, Tingley FD 3rd, Winston
EN, Chen YL, Heym J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Pfizer Central Research, Groton, CT 06340, USA.

Here we describe the properties of CP-154,526, a potent and selective nonpeptide 
antagonist of corticotropin (ACTH) releasing factor (CRF) receptors. CP-154,526
binds with high affinity to CRF receptors (Ki < 10 nM) and blocks CRF-stimulated 
adenylate cyclase activity in membranes prepared from rat cortex and pituitary.
Systemically administered CP-154,526 antagonizes the stimulatory effects of
exogenous CRF on plasma ACTH, locus coeruleus neuronal firing and startle
response amplitude. Potential anxiolytic activity of CP-154,526 was revealed in a
fearpotentiated startle paradigm. These data are presented in the context of
clinical findings, which suggest that CRF is hypersecreted in certain
pathological states. We propose that a CRF antagonist such as CP-154,526 could
affirm the role of CRF in certain psychiatric diseases and may be of significant 
value in the treatment of these disorders.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.93.19.10477 
PMCID: PMC38410
PMID: 8816826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

