

3756. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1996 Sep 17;93(19):10477-82.

CP-154,526: a potent and selective nonpeptide antagonist of corticotropin
releasing factor receptors.

Schulz DW(1), Mansbach RS, Sprouse J, Braselton JP, Collins J, Corman M,
Dunaiskis A, Faraci S, Schmidt AW, Seeger T, Seymour P, Tingley FD 3rd, Winston
EN, Chen YL, Heym J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Pfizer Central Research, Groton, CT 06340, USA.

Here we describe the properties of CP-154,526, a potent and selective nonpeptide 
antagonist of corticotropin (ACTH) releasing factor (CRF) receptors. CP-154,526
binds with high affinity to CRF receptors (Ki < 10 nM) and blocks CRF-stimulated 
adenylate cyclase activity in membranes prepared from rat cortex and pituitary.
Systemically administered CP-154,526 antagonizes the stimulatory effects of
exogenous CRF on plasma ACTH, locus coeruleus neuronal firing and startle
response amplitude. Potential anxiolytic activity of CP-154,526 was revealed in a
fearpotentiated startle paradigm. These data are presented in the context of
clinical findings, which suggest that CRF is hypersecreted in certain
pathological states. We propose that a CRF antagonist such as CP-154,526 could
affirm the role of CRF in certain psychiatric diseases and may be of significant 
value in the treatment of these disorders.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.93.19.10477 
PMCID: PMC38410
PMID: 8816826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3757. Toxicology. 1996 Sep 2;112(3):183-94.

Comparison of the efficacy of single or repeated HI-6 treatment following soman
poisoning in guinea pigs and marmoset monkeys.

Busker RW(1), Zijlstra JJ, Philippens IH, Groen B, Melchers BP.

Author information: 
(1)Research Group of Pharmacology, Prins Maurits Laboratory, TNO, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The therapeutic efficacy of single or repeated doses of HI-6, together with
atropine, against soman poisoning were compared both in guinea pigs and in
marmoset monkeys. In addition, the pharmacokinetics of HI-6 were determined after
single or repeated injections. Both single and repeated HI-6 injections protected
guinea pigs effectively against 2 x LD50 soman. The plasma levels of HI-6 after
single HI-6 injection fitted a one-compartment elimination model. The plasma
levels of HI-6 following repeated injections were in accordance with those
predicted using the data obtained after single HI-6 injection. No evidence was
found for any disturbance of the HI-6 elimination in guinea pigs following soman 
intoxication. Marmosets were intoxicated with 2 x LD50 soman (s.c.), followed
after 1 min by i.m. injections of atropine and HI-6. One and 2 h later, four
animals received additional HI-6 injections. The pharmacokinetics of HI-6 in
plasma, after single and repeated HI-6 injections were similar to those found in 
the guinea pig. Furthermore, repeated HI-6 injections protected effectively
against soman: four out of four animals survived, in fair condition. In contrast,
only one out of four animals receiving single HI-6-treatment fully recovered
within a few days. Two animals died, the fourth animal survived, but had to be
euthanized 3 weeks after intoxication.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-483x(96)03358-6 
PMID: 8845039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

