

376. Nat Commun. 2020 Jan 16;11(1):301. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-14269-w.

Hominin-specific regulatory elements selectively emerged in oligodendrocytes and 
are disrupted in autism patients.

Castelijns B(1), Baak ML(1), Timpanaro IS(1), Wiggers CRM(1)(2), Vermunt MW(1),
Shang P(1), Kondova I(3), Geeven G(1), Bianchi V(1), de Laat W(1), Geijsen N(1), 
Creyghton MP(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Center Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 8,
3584 CT, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Division of Pediatrics, University Medical Center Utrecht, Heidelberglaan 100,
3584 XC, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Biomedical Primate Research Center, Lange Kleiweg 161, 2288 GJ, Rijswijk, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Center Utrecht, Uppsalalaan 8,
3584 CT, Utrecht, The Netherlands. m.creyghton@erasmusmc.nl.
(5)Department of Developmental Biology, Erasmus University Medical Center,
Wytemaweg 80, 3015 CN, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.creyghton@erasmusmc.nl.

Speciation is associated with substantial rewiring of the regulatory circuitry
underlying the expression of genes. Determining which changes are relevant and
underlie the emergence of the human brain or its unique susceptibility to neural 
disease has been challenging. Here we annotate changes to gene regulatory
elements (GREs) at cell type resolution in the brains of multiple primate species
spanning most of primate evolution. We identify a unique set of regulatory
elements that emerged in hominins prior to the separation of humans and
chimpanzees. We demonstrate that these hominin gains perferentially affect
oligodendrocyte function postnatally and are preferentially affected in the
brains of autism patients. This preference is also observed for human-specific
GREs suggesting this system is under continued selective pressure. Our data
provide a roadmap of regulatory rewiring across primate evolution providing
insight into the genomic changes that underlie the emergence of the brain and its
susceptibility to neural disease.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-14269-w 
PMCID: PMC6965079
PMID: 31949148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Eur J Neurosci. 2020 Jun;51(12):2412-2422. doi: 10.1111/ejn.14679. Epub 2020 Feb 
12.

The highly selective mGlu2 receptor positive allosteric modulator LY-487,379
alleviates l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of
Parkinson's disease.

Hamadjida A(1), Sid-Otmane L(2), Kwan C(1), Frouni I(1)(2), Nafade V(1), Bédard
D(1), Gagnon D(3), Wallman MJ(3), Rouillard C(4), Parent A(3), Parent M(3), Huot 
P(1)(2)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Centre de Recherche CERVO, Quebec City, QC, Canada.
(4)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Québec, Quebec
City, QC, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada.
(6)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.

l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) is the most effective treatment for
Parkinson's disease (PD), but its use over a long period is marred by motors
complications such as dyskinesia. We previously demonstrated that selective
metabotropic glutamate 2/3 (mGlu2/3 ) receptor activation with LY-354,740
alleviates dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset and the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat. Here,
we sought to determine the role played by selective mGlu2 activation in the
anti-dyskinetic effect of mGlu2/3 stimulation and have investigated the effect of
the highly selective mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator LY-487,379 at
alleviating established, and preventing the development of, l-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat. First, dyskinetic 6-OHDA-lesioned rats
were administered l-DOPA in combination with LY-487,379 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or 
vehicle, and the severity of dyskinesia was determined. Second, 6-OHDA-lesioned
rats were administered LY-487,379 (0.1 or 1 mg/kg), started concurrently with
l-DOPA, once daily for 22 days, and dyskinesia severity was evaluated weekly for 
four consecutive weeks. We also assessed the effect of LY-487,379 on l-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian effect. We found that acute challenges of LY-487,379 0.1 mg/kg 
in combination with l-DOPA, significantly diminished dyskinesia severity, by ≈54%
(p < .01), when compared to vehicle. Moreover, animals treated with
l-DOPA/LY-487,379 0.1 and 1 mg/kg during the dyskinesia induction phase exhibited
milder dyskinesia, by ≈74% and ≈61%, respectively (both p < .01), when compared
to l-DOPA/vehicle. LY-487,379 did not impair l-DOPA anti-parkinsonian activity.
These results suggest that mGlu2 activation may be an effective and promising
therapeutic strategy to alleviate the severity and prevent the development of
dyskinesia.

© 2020 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.14679 
PMID: 31944461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

