

3760. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1996 Sep;127(1):1-9.

The antiepileptic agent gabapentin (Neurontin) possesses anxiolytic-like and
antinociceptive actions that are reversed by D-serine.

Singh L(1), Field MJ, Ferris P, Hunter JC, Oles RJ, Williams RG, Woodruff GN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Parke-Davis Neuroscience Research Center, Cambridge,
UK.

This report describes the activity of the antiepileptic agent gabapentin
(Neurontin) in animal models predictive of anxiolysis and analgesia. Gabapentin
displayed anxiolytic-like action in the rat conflict test, the mouse light/dark
box and the rat elevated X-maze with respective minimum effective doses (MEDs) of
3, 10 and 30 mg/kg. Furthermore, gabapentin also induced behavioural changes
suggestive of anxiolysis in the marmoset human threat test with a MED of 30
mg/kg. In the rat formalin test of tonic nociception, gabapentin dose-dependently
(30-300 mg/kg) and selectively blocked the late phase with a MED of 100 mg/kg.
However, it failed to block carrageenan-induced paw oedema. The
intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of the glycine/NMDA receptor agonist
D-Serine, dose-dependently (10-100 micrograms/animal) reversed the
antinociceptive action of gabapentin (200 mg/kg, SC). D-Serine (30
micrograms/animal, ICV) also reversed the anxiolytic-like effects (in the
light/dark box and the rat elevated X-maze) of gabapentin (30 mg/kg). In
contrast, L-Serine (100 micrograms, ICV) failed to block the antinociceptive
action of gabapentin. The antinociceptive action of (+)-HA-966 (25 mg/kg, SC), a 
partial agonist at the glycine/NMDA receptor, was reversed by D-Serine (100
micrograms/animal, ICV). However, D-Serine (100 micrograms/animal, ICV) failed to
affect the antinociceptive action of a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS
19755 (3 mg/kg, SC). Gabapentin has negligible affinity for the strychnine
insensitive [3H]glycine binding site. This indicates that the interaction between
gabapentin and D-Serine may not involve the NMDA receptor complex. Gabapentin may
represent a novel type of anxiolytic and analgesic agent.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02805968 
PMID: 8880937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3761. Biol Psychiatry. 1996 Sep 1;40(5):317-37.

The biobehavioral consequences of psychogenic stress in a small, social primate
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Johnson EO(1), Kamilaris TC, Carter CS, Calogero AE, Gold PW, Chrousos GP.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Endocrinology Branch, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

The biobehavioral consequences of psychogenic stress were examined using
neuroendocrine and ethological methods in a captive colony of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus). Specifically, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) 
axis reactivity was evaluated as a function of gender and social status in four
consecutive social environments [(1) stable heterosexual pairs; (2) isolation;
(3) unstable peer groups; and (4) stable peer groups], by measuring both basal
plasma cortisol, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and beta-endorphin
concentrations and responsiveness of these hormones to dexamethasone, ovine
corticotropin-releasing hormone (oCRH), and ACTH1-24. Socially stressful
conditions, such as isolation and peer group formation, were associated with
increased HPA axis function and behavioral arousal, and individual profiles were 
related to gender and social status. Hormonal levels prior to group formation
predicted subsequent status in peer groups. Basal morning concentrations of
plasma cortisol, as well as cortisol responsiveness to dexamethasone suppression,
were sensitive indices of HPA axis arousal during periods of social stress. The
context-dependent development of hormonal and behavioral profiles, reminiscent of
depression and/or anorexia nervosa, suggests that the common marmoset may be a
useful model of psychiatric hypercortisolism.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-3223(95)00397-5 
PMID: 8874833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

