

3765. J Virol. 1996 Sep;70(9):6314-22.

Human adenovirus-specific CD8+ T-cell responses are not inhibited by E3-19K in
the presence of gamma interferon.

Flomenberg P(1), Piaskowski V, Truitt RL, Casper JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19107, USA.

Adenovirus has considerable potential as a gene therapy vector, but recent animal
data suggest that transduced cells are destroyed by adenovirus-specific cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte (CTL) responses. Therefore, it will be important to develop
strategies to evade adenovirus-specific CTL responses in humans. As a first step,
an assay was developed to detect and characterize human CTLs directed against
adenovirus. Adenovirus-specific CTL responses were demonstrated to be present in 
four of five healthy adults by in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood
mononuclear cells with autologous fibroblasts infected with the adenovirus type 2
(Ad2) E3 deletion mutant Ad2+ND1. Killing by adenovirus-specific CTLs was major
histocompatibility complex class I restricted and was documented to be mediated
by CD8+ T cells. Wild-type-Ad2-infected cells were poor CTL targets compared with
cells infected with the E3 deletion mutant because of the expression of E3-19K,
an early viral glycoprotein which prevents transport of major histocompatibility 
complex class I antigens out of the endoplasmic reticulum to the cell surface.
However, preincubation of targets with gamma interferon resulted in enhanced
killing of wild-type-Ad2-infected cells, to levels comparable to those obtained
with Ad2+ ND1-infected cells. Radioimmunoprecipitation analysis revealed that
gamma interferon not only increased the synthesis of class I antigens but also
allowed excess molecules to escape from the endoplasmic reticulum. It is
concluded that E3-19K expression in adenovirus-infected cells inhibits human CTL 
recognition in vitro but that gamma interferon may help overcome the E3-19K
effect during acute infection in vivo.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.70.9.6314-6322.1996 
PMCID: PMC190657
PMID: 8709259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3766. J Virol. 1996 Sep;70(9):6012-9.

Regulation of the herpesvirus saimiri oncogene stpC, similar to that of T-cell
activation genes, in growth-transformed human T lymphocytes.

Fickenscher H(1), Biesinger B, Knappe A, Wittmann S, Fleckenstein B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.
helmutfr@viro.med.uni-erlangen.de

Herpesvirus saimiri strain C488, a T-cell tumor virus of New World primates,
transforms human T lymphocytes to stable interleukin-2-dependent growth without
need for further stimulation by antigen or mitogen. The transformed cell lines
show the phenotype of activated mature T cells and retain many essential features
of the primary parental cells, e.g., antigen specificity. In contrast to
transformed New World monkey T cells, the human lines do not support lytic growth
of the virus, even after chemical stimulation. Here we show that many viral genes
remain silent during episomal persistence. However, the viral oncogene stpC is
predominantly transcribed and translated to a stable cytoplasmic protein of 20
kDa that is heterogeneously expressed in individual cells. This 1.7-kb mRNA is
bicistronic, encoding also Tip, a viral protein interacting with the
T-cell-specific tyrosine kinase Lck. stpC/tip transcripts are heavily induced
upon stimulation by mitogen or phorbol ester. Block of protein synthesis does not
abolish transcription: treatment with cycloheximide greatly induces stpC/tip mRNA
levels. Thus, this gene complex is regulated similarly to early T-cell activation
genes. Constitutive and induced expression engage different transcription start
sites. The T-cell regulation of the viral genes stpC and tip may contribute to
the T-cell tropism of growth transformation by herpesvirus saimiri.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.70.9.6012-6019.1996 
PMCID: PMC190621
PMID: 8709223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

