

3766. J Virol. 1996 Sep;70(9):6012-9.

Regulation of the herpesvirus saimiri oncogene stpC, similar to that of T-cell
activation genes, in growth-transformed human T lymphocytes.

Fickenscher H(1), Biesinger B, Knappe A, Wittmann S, Fleckenstein B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.
helmutfr@viro.med.uni-erlangen.de

Herpesvirus saimiri strain C488, a T-cell tumor virus of New World primates,
transforms human T lymphocytes to stable interleukin-2-dependent growth without
need for further stimulation by antigen or mitogen. The transformed cell lines
show the phenotype of activated mature T cells and retain many essential features
of the primary parental cells, e.g., antigen specificity. In contrast to
transformed New World monkey T cells, the human lines do not support lytic growth
of the virus, even after chemical stimulation. Here we show that many viral genes
remain silent during episomal persistence. However, the viral oncogene stpC is
predominantly transcribed and translated to a stable cytoplasmic protein of 20
kDa that is heterogeneously expressed in individual cells. This 1.7-kb mRNA is
bicistronic, encoding also Tip, a viral protein interacting with the
T-cell-specific tyrosine kinase Lck. stpC/tip transcripts are heavily induced
upon stimulation by mitogen or phorbol ester. Block of protein synthesis does not
abolish transcription: treatment with cycloheximide greatly induces stpC/tip mRNA
levels. Thus, this gene complex is regulated similarly to early T-cell activation
genes. Constitutive and induced expression engage different transcription start
sites. The T-cell regulation of the viral genes stpC and tip may contribute to
the T-cell tropism of growth transformation by herpesvirus saimiri.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.70.9.6012-6019.1996 
PMCID: PMC190621
PMID: 8709223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3767. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Aug 19;372(2):264-82.

Visuotopic organisation of striate cortex in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Fritsches KA(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Queensland,
Australia.

The visuotopic organisation of the primary visual cortex (V1) was studied by
extracellular recordings in adult male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that were
anaesthetised with sufentanil/nitrous oxide and paralysed with pancuronium
bromide. Extensive sampling of the occipital region in four individuals and
partial coverage of V1 in five others allowed not only the establishment of the
normal visuotopy but also the study of interindividual variability. As in other
primates, there was a single, continuous map of the contralateral hemifield in
V1, with the upper visual quadrant represented ventrally and the lower quadrant
represented dorsally. The surface area of V1, which was measured in
two-dimensional reconstructions of the cortical surface, varied from 192 to 217
mm2. There was a marked emphasis on the representation of the foveal and
parafoveal visual fields: the representation of the central 5 degrees of the
visual field occupied 36-39% of the surface area of V1, whereas the central 10
degrees occupied 57-59%. No asymmetry between the representations of the upper
and lower quadrants was apparent. The visual topography of V1 was highly
consistent between individuals, relative to both sulcal landmarks and stereotaxic
coordinates. The entire contralateral hemifield was represented in V1; in
addition, neurones with receptive fields whose borders invaded the ipsilateral
hemifield were observed within V1, less than 800 microns from the V1/V2 boundary.
The total invasion of the ipsilateral hemifield was less than 0.5 degree at the
centre of the fovea but reached 8 degrees at the periphery of the vertical
meridian. Our results demonstrate that the organisation of V1 is similar in
diurnal New and Old World simians, despite major variations in size, ecological
niche, and timing of postnatal development across species.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960819)372:2<264::AID-CNE8>3.0.CO;2-1 
PMID: 8863130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

