

3767. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Aug 19;372(2):264-82.

Visuotopic organisation of striate cortex in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Fritsches KA(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Queensland,
Australia.

The visuotopic organisation of the primary visual cortex (V1) was studied by
extracellular recordings in adult male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that were
anaesthetised with sufentanil/nitrous oxide and paralysed with pancuronium
bromide. Extensive sampling of the occipital region in four individuals and
partial coverage of V1 in five others allowed not only the establishment of the
normal visuotopy but also the study of interindividual variability. As in other
primates, there was a single, continuous map of the contralateral hemifield in
V1, with the upper visual quadrant represented ventrally and the lower quadrant
represented dorsally. The surface area of V1, which was measured in
two-dimensional reconstructions of the cortical surface, varied from 192 to 217
mm2. There was a marked emphasis on the representation of the foveal and
parafoveal visual fields: the representation of the central 5 degrees of the
visual field occupied 36-39% of the surface area of V1, whereas the central 10
degrees occupied 57-59%. No asymmetry between the representations of the upper
and lower quadrants was apparent. The visual topography of V1 was highly
consistent between individuals, relative to both sulcal landmarks and stereotaxic
coordinates. The entire contralateral hemifield was represented in V1; in
addition, neurones with receptive fields whose borders invaded the ipsilateral
hemifield were observed within V1, less than 800 microns from the V1/V2 boundary.
The total invasion of the ipsilateral hemifield was less than 0.5 degree at the
centre of the fovea but reached 8 degrees at the periphery of the vertical
meridian. Our results demonstrate that the organisation of V1 is similar in
diurnal New and Old World simians, despite major variations in size, ecological
niche, and timing of postnatal development across species.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960819)372:2<264::AID-CNE8>3.0.CO;2-1 
PMID: 8863130  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3768. Virology. 1996 Aug 15;222(2):451-6.

Endogenous D-type (HERV-K) related sequences are packaged into retroviral
particles in the placenta and possess open reading frames for reverse
transcriptase.

Simpson GR(1), Patience C, Löwer R, Tönjes RR, Moore HD, Weiss RA, Boyd MT.

Author information: 
(1)Chester Beatty Laboratories, Institute of Cancer Research, London, United
Kingdom.

All primates studied to date produce retroviral-like particles in their
placentae. We have purified these particles from two primate species, one Old
World (human) and one New World (marmoset), and have identified the retroviral
sequences which are packaged into these particles. Three families of sequences
have been detected in these particles in human, all of which have the highest
homology to B- and D-type retroviruses and to the human endogenous retrovirus
HERV-K10. Previous studies have reported that the New World monkeys do not
possess sequences with homology to HERV-K10. We have identified a new family of
low-copy-number sequences which are present in New World monkeys and which
possess 70% homology to the HERV-K family. Particles from both species possess
reverse transcriptase activity and we have found that some of these retroviral
particles package sequences which encode long open reading frames in pol, as
revealed by expression cloning in Escherichia coli. These open reading frames
could encode the reverse transcriptase enzyme activity found in the particles.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1996.0443 
PMID: 8806530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

