

3770. Int J Androl. 1996 Aug;19(4):212-9.

Expression of protamine P2 in the testis of the common marmoset and man
visualized using non-radioactive in-situ hybridization.

Saunders PT(1), Gaughan J, Saxty BA, Kerr LE, Millar MR.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

Information on the organization of the spermatogenic cycle of the common marmoset
(Call√≠thrix jacchus), a small New World primate, is limited to a single
histological report on the differentiation of spermatids. In the present study we
have used non-radioactive in-situ hybridization with a cRNA probe directed
against marmoset protamine 2, on fixed sections of marmoset and human testis to
elucidate the organization of mature germ cells within the seminiferous
epithelium. Specificity of the probe was checked on Northern blots; mP2
hybridized exclusively to mRNA in samples extracted from marmoset and human
testis. In sections from human and marmoset testis, positive staining for mRNA
was confined to round and elongating spermatids and in the human was reduced in
samples from patients with incomplete spermatogenesis. In the human, P2 mRNA was 
present in groups of cells consistent with the presence of more than one stage of
the spermatogenic cycle in transverse sections of individual tubules. In the
marmoset, P2-positive cells were detected as a continuous ring of staining in the
majority of sections of tubules whilst in others only a group(s) of cells was
positive. We conclude that the arrangement of the spermatogenic wave in this New 
World primate may be intermediate between that seen in rodents (segmental) and in
the human (helical).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1996.tb00465.x 
PMID: 8940659  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3771. Biol Reprod. 1996 Aug;55(2):254-9.

Pluripotent cell lines derived from common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
blastocysts.

Thomson JA(1), Kalishman J, Golos TG, Durning M, Harris CP, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

We report the derivation of eight pluripotent cell lines from common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) blastocysts. These cell lines are positive for a series of
markers (alkaline phosphatase, SSEA-3, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60, and TRA-1-81) that
characterize undifferentiated human embryonal carcinoma cells and rhesus
embryonic stem cells. All eight cell lines had a modal chromosome number of 46;
seven cell lines were XX and one was XY. Two cell lines (Cj11 and Cj62) were
cultured continuously for over a year and remained undifferentiated and euploid. 
In the absence of fibroblast feeder layers, these cell lines differentiated to
multiple cell types, even in the presence of leukemia inhibiting factor.
Differentiated cells secreted bioactive CG into the culture medium and expressed 
alpha-CG, beta-CG, and alpha-fetoprotein mRNA, indicating trophoblast and
endoderm differentiation. Bioactive CG secretion in differentiating cells was
increased substantially in the presence of GnRH agonist D-Trp6-Pro9-NHEt. When
grown at high densities, these cells formed embryoid bodies with a close
resemblance to early postimplantation embryos, including the formation of a yolk 
sac, amnion, and an embryonic disc with an early primitive streak. These results 
make these pluripotent cells strong candidates for marmoset embryonic stem cells.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod55.2.254 
PMID: 8828827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

