

3771. Biol Reprod. 1996 Aug;55(2):254-9.

Pluripotent cell lines derived from common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
blastocysts.

Thomson JA(1), Kalishman J, Golos TG, Durning M, Harris CP, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299, USA.

We report the derivation of eight pluripotent cell lines from common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) blastocysts. These cell lines are positive for a series of
markers (alkaline phosphatase, SSEA-3, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60, and TRA-1-81) that
characterize undifferentiated human embryonal carcinoma cells and rhesus
embryonic stem cells. All eight cell lines had a modal chromosome number of 46;
seven cell lines were XX and one was XY. Two cell lines (Cj11 and Cj62) were
cultured continuously for over a year and remained undifferentiated and euploid. 
In the absence of fibroblast feeder layers, these cell lines differentiated to
multiple cell types, even in the presence of leukemia inhibiting factor.
Differentiated cells secreted bioactive CG into the culture medium and expressed 
alpha-CG, beta-CG, and alpha-fetoprotein mRNA, indicating trophoblast and
endoderm differentiation. Bioactive CG secretion in differentiating cells was
increased substantially in the presence of GnRH agonist D-Trp6-Pro9-NHEt. When
grown at high densities, these cells formed embryoid bodies with a close
resemblance to early postimplantation embryos, including the formation of a yolk 
sac, amnion, and an embryonic disc with an early primitive streak. These results 
make these pluripotent cells strong candidates for marmoset embryonic stem cells.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod55.2.254 
PMID: 8828827  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3772. Tissue Cell. 1996 Aug;28(4):379-85.

Expression of integrins in marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) ovary during
folliculogenesis.

Giebel J(1), de Souza P, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Ernst Moritz Arndt University Greifswald, Germany.

Integrins were localized immunohistochemically in marmoset ovaries (Callithrix
jacchus) of defined cycle stages. With monoclonal antibodies against beta 1,
alpha 2, alpha 3, and alpha 6 integrin subunits, immunoreactivity was
predominantly found in ovaries of the follicular phase. In the luteal phase,
non-luteal cells, e.g. fibroblasts or endothelial cells expressed beta 1, alpha
2, or alpha 6 integrins. Immunostaining for the beta 1 subunit was strongest in
granulosa cells of all growing follicles. Weak immunoreactivity was found in
granulosa cells of atretic follicles, theca and interstitial cells. With the
alpha 2 antibody, binding was evident in granulosa cells of many, but not of all,
primordial and primary follicles. Expression of alpha 2 was also found in
luteinized granulosa cells of tertiary follicles. In growing follicles,
immunoreactivity of alpha 3 was restricted to granulosa cells of early secondary 
follicles. Within the epithelium, staining was almost exclusively found in
granulosa cells bordering on the basal granulosa cell layer. In advanced stages
of atresia, granulosa cells of antral follicles expressed the alpha 3 subunit.
Integrin alpha 6 expression was evident in granulosa cells of all growing
follicles but was absent during advanced stages of degeneration. The specific
expression patterns of integrins suggest that these matrix receptors play a
regulatory role during cyclic events in primate ovaries.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(96)80024-3 
PMID: 8760853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

