

3772. Tissue Cell. 1996 Aug;28(4):379-85.

Expression of integrins in marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) ovary during
folliculogenesis.

Giebel J(1), de Souza P, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Ernst Moritz Arndt University Greifswald, Germany.

Integrins were localized immunohistochemically in marmoset ovaries (Callithrix
jacchus) of defined cycle stages. With monoclonal antibodies against beta 1,
alpha 2, alpha 3, and alpha 6 integrin subunits, immunoreactivity was
predominantly found in ovaries of the follicular phase. In the luteal phase,
non-luteal cells, e.g. fibroblasts or endothelial cells expressed beta 1, alpha
2, or alpha 6 integrins. Immunostaining for the beta 1 subunit was strongest in
granulosa cells of all growing follicles. Weak immunoreactivity was found in
granulosa cells of atretic follicles, theca and interstitial cells. With the
alpha 2 antibody, binding was evident in granulosa cells of many, but not of all,
primordial and primary follicles. Expression of alpha 2 was also found in
luteinized granulosa cells of tertiary follicles. In growing follicles,
immunoreactivity of alpha 3 was restricted to granulosa cells of early secondary 
follicles. Within the epithelium, staining was almost exclusively found in
granulosa cells bordering on the basal granulosa cell layer. In advanced stages
of atresia, granulosa cells of antral follicles expressed the alpha 3 subunit.
Integrin alpha 6 expression was evident in granulosa cells of all growing
follicles but was absent during advanced stages of degeneration. The specific
expression patterns of integrins suggest that these matrix receptors play a
regulatory role during cyclic events in primate ovaries.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(96)80024-3 
PMID: 8760853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3773. Lancet. 1996 Jul 6;348(9019):56.

Failure to transmit bovine spongiform encephalopathy to marmosets with
ruminant-derived meal.

Ridley RM, Baker HF, Windle CP.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(05)64377-2 
PMID: 8691940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

