

3775. Lab Anim. 1996 Jul;30(3):260-6.

Collection of semen from marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) for experimental
use by vaginal washing.

Kuederling I(1), Morrell JM, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Assisted reproductive techniques make an important contribution to the
conservation of endangered primate species. In our laboratories marmoset monkeys 
(Callithrix jacchus) are used as a model species for developing assisted
reproductive technologies for New World primates. The studies require a reliable 
method for collecting functional sperm from these small animals. For this purpose
a minimally invasive procedure, vaginal washing after natural mating, was
evaluated for its suitability as a routine method of obtaining ejaculated sperm
of high quality. The objective of the first series of tests was to identify a
behavioural pattern which was easily discernible by the observer and provided a
reliable indication that ejaculation had occurred. In a second series of tests
the influence of length of separation of the male prior to copulation on the
quality of the ejaculate was evaluated. Six adult ovariectomized and five adult
intact females were used for vaginal washing, while their mates served as donors 
of ejaculates. Matings at specific times were achieved by separating the males
from their females for a certain time period and subsequently introducing either 
their own mates or unfamiliar males to the females. After each observed mating
vaginal washing was performed on the unsedated females. The seminal samples
obtained were analysed for sperm concentration, the proportion of motile sperm
and the proportion of live sperm. The results have shown (a) that ejaculation was
indicated with a reliability of 86.1% by the behaviour of the female, who
terminates a copulation by moving away from her partner; (b) that separation of
the male for up to six days had no negative effect on the sperm quality; (c) that
the sperm samples were of high quality. Vaginal washing after natural matings
appears to be a practical, reliable and gentle method for routinely collecting
ejaculates from marmoset monkeys and possibly other New World primates.

DOI: 10.1258/002367796780684845 
PMID: 8843051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3776. Synapse. 1996 Jul;23(3):192-200.

Intraventricular infusion of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset.

Pearce RK(1), Collins P, Jenner P, Emmett C, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, UK.

Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) prevents damage to the nigrostriatal system
in rodents. We now report the effects of bFGF administered by intraventricular
infusion to adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) previously rendered
parkinsonian by the administration of 1-methy-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP). Infusion commenced 10 weeks after MPTP treatment and the animals received
bFGF in low (1.8 micrograms/l), medium (18 micrograms/l), or high (180
micrograms/l) doses over a 28-day period. At weekly intervals, automated activity
measurements, behavioral disability scoring, and videotape analyses were made.
There was no improvement in the motor deficits exhibited by MPTP-treated common
marmosets receiving bFGF infusion compared to vehicle-treated controls. Three of 
five high dose animals showed neurological impairment prior to the end of the
study. No significant differences were found between control and bFGF-infused
MPTP-treated common marmosets with respect to nigral tyrosine hydroxylase
immunoreactive cell counts and striatal [3H]mazindol binding. All high dose
animals showed hydrocephalus which was also observed in four other animals
receiving bFGF. Histological examination revealed proliferation of the choroid
plexus and ependyma which was most marked in the high dose animals. Adverse
effects, in the form of hydrocephalus and neurological deterioration, were
presumably secondary to an ependymal and choroid plexus reaction induced by bFGF.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2396(199607)23:3<192::AID-SYN8>3.0.CO;2-3 
PMID: 8807747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

