

3780. Nature. 1996 Jun 13;381(6583):610-3.

Primary cortical representation of sounds by the coordination of action-potential
timing.

deCharms RC(1), Merzenich MM.

Author information: 
(1)Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience, University of California, San
Francisco 94143, USA.

Cortical population coding could in principle rely on either the mean rate of
neuronal action potentials, or the relative timing of action potentials, or both.
When a single sensory stimulus drives many neurons to fire at elevated rates, the
spikes of these neurons become tightly synchronized, which could be involved in
'binding' together individual firing-rate feature representations into a unified 
object percept. Here we demonstrate that the relative timing of cortical action
potentials can signal stimulus features themselves, a function even more basic
than feature grouping. Populations of neurons in the primary auditory cortex can 
coordinate the relative timing of their action potentials such that spikes occur 
closer together in time during continuous stimuli. In this way cortical neurons
can signal stimuli even when their firing rates do not change. Population coding 
based on relative spike timing can systemically signal stimulus features, it is
topographically mapped, and it follows the stimulus time course even where mean
firing rate does not.

DOI: 10.1038/381610a0 
PMID: 8637597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3781. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1996 Jun;74(3):213-9.

Animal models of myopia. A review.

Edwards MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong.

The discovery that myopia can be induced in animals has resulted in renewed
interest in the condition and it is hoped that information gained about the
production, manipulation and prevention of myopia in animals might provide
information about naturally occurring myopia in humans. Early experimental work
was carried out using monkeys as subjects, but the high cost involved, and the
difficulty of obtaining monkeys in adequate numbers for good experimental design 
and control, made researchers look for more suitable experimental animals. Myopia
has also been induced in other animals species such as the domestic cat, the tree
shrew, the marmoset, the guinea pig and, most successfully, the domestic chicken.
The parallels between experimentally induced myopia, which can only be induced in
infant animals, and human myopia which typically develops well after infancy,
have still to be established.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.1996.tb00078.x 
PMID: 8828713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

