

3786. J Gen Virol. 1996 Jun;77 ( Pt 6):1173-80.

Persistent Epstein-Barr virus infection in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Cox C(1), Chang S, Karran L, Griffin B, Wedderburn N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Royal College of Surgeons, London, UK.
ccox@rpms.ac.uk

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection of the common marmoset causes long-term
infection, with production of antibodies to virus-induced antigens, without
clinical illness. Attempts to show the presence of EBV DNA in saliva of infected 
animals by PCR were initially unsuccessful, although slot-blot hybridization
analysis demonstrated that viral DNA was present. Further investigations showed
that most samples of pilocarpine-induced saliva, and 33% of the samples of whole 
mouth fluids (WMF) tested, were inhibitory to PCR. Similar results were found
using human WMF. A method of assessing samples of marmoset WMF for the presence
of EBV, by PCR using an EBV BamHI W probe, and removing inhibition with Chelex
100, is described. A total of 202 samples from 21 EBV infected, and seven
non-infected animals was tested. Five seropositive animals shed virus on every
occasion, and 15 intermittently. Two marmosets, infected as neonates, showed
progressively increasing humoral responses to viral antigens, and shed virus on
every occasion tested over 3 years. When mated with uninfected animals, the
latter seroconverted 4 and 6 weeks later, respectively, and later shed virus into
their WMF. The naturally infected animals were paired with naive marmosets, and
were able to pass on infection. These results establish that long-term,
permissive EBV infection occurs in the common marmoset, and demonstrate again the
similarities in the response to EBV between marmoset and man.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-77-6-1173 
PMID: 8683204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3787. J Gen Virol. 1996 Jun;77 ( Pt 6):1169-72.

Transmission of donor Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in transplanted organs causes
lymphoproliferative disease in EBV-seronegative recipients.

Haque T(1), Thomas JA, Falk KI, Parratt R, Hunt BJ, Yacoub M, Crawford DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, London School of Hygiene and Tropical
Medicine, UK.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is associated with post-transplant lymphoproliferative
disease (PTLD). To determine whether the donor EBV isolate is transmitted to the 
recipient via the allograft and causes PTLD, EBV isolates from four cases of PTLD
in cadaveric heart and/or lung transplant recipients were compared with the donor
isolates by PCR and DNA sequence analysis. Two recipients who were EBV
seronegative at transplantation acquired an EBV isolate indistinguishable from
that of the donor and developed PTLD. In contrast, in two patients who were
seropositive before transplantation, the donor isolate differed from that present
in PTLD of the recipient. The results suggest that the acquisition of donor EBV
is a risk factor for PTLD development in a previously seronegative transplant
recipient.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-77-6-1169 
PMID: 8683203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

