

3789. J Virol. 1996 Jun;70(6):3561-70.

Transcription of the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) gene occurs
before induction of the BCR2 (Cp) EBNA gene promoter during the initial stages of
infection in B cells.

Schlager S(1), Speck SH, Woisetschl√§ger M.

Author information: 
(1)Sandoz Forschungsinstitut, Vienna, Austria.

The purpose of this study was to gain insights into the regulation of
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) gene transcription during the establishment of viral
latency in B cells. During the early stages of EBV infection in B lymphocytes,
transcription of six viral nuclear antigens (EBNAs) is initiated from an early
promoter (Wp). This is followed by a switch of promoter usage to an upstream
promoter, Cp, whose activity is autoregulated by both EBNA1 and EBNA2. Previously
it was demonstrated that infection of primary B cells with EBNA2-negative
(EBNA2-) EBNA4-mutant (EBNA4mut) virus resulted only in the expression of mutant 
EBNA4 protein and failure to express the other EBNA gene products (C. Rooney H.
G. Howe, S. H. Speck, and G. Miller, J. Virol. 63:1531-1539, 1989). We extended
this research to demonstrate that Wp-to-Cp switching did not occur upon infection
of primary B cells with an EBNA2- EBNA4mut virus (M. Woisetschlaeger, X. W. Jin, 
C. N. Yandara, L. A. Furmanski, J. L. Strominger, and S. H. Speck, Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA 88:3942-3946, 1991). Further characterization of this phenomenon
led to the identification of an EBNA2-dependent enhancer upstream of Cp. On the
basis of these data, a model was proposed in which initial transcription from Wp 
gives rise to the expression of EBNA2 and EBNA4, and then transcription is
upregulated from Cp via the EBNA2- dependent enhancer (Woisetschlaeger et al., as
noted above). Implicit in this model is that transcription of the EBNA1 and
EBNA3a to -3c genes is dependent on the switch from Wp to Cp, since primary cells
infected with EBNA2- EBNA4mut virus fail to switch and also fail to express these
viral antigens. Here we critically evaluate this model and demonstrate, in
contrast to the predictions of the model, that transcription of both the EBNA1
and EBNA2 genes precedes activation of Cp. Furthermore, the level of EBNA1 gene
transcription was strongly reduced in primary B cells infected with EBNA2-
EBNA4mut virus compared with that of cells infected with wild-type virus.
Switching to Cp, as well as EBNA1 gene transcription, was observed upon infection
of EBV-negative Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cell lines with EBNA2- EBNA4mut virus,
thus establishing a correlation between early EBNA1 gene transcription and
upregulation of transcription initiation from Cp. However, in EBV-negative BL
cell lines infected with EBNA2- EBNA4mut virus, transcription of the EBNA1 gene
at early time points postinfection initiated from Qp, the EBNA1 gene promoter
active in group I BL cells (B. C. Schaefer, J. L. Strominger, and S. H. Speck,
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92:10565-10569, 1995), rather than from Wp. The data
support a model in which EBNA1 plays an important role in the cascade of events
leading to successful switching from Wp to Cp and subsequent immortalization of
the infected B cell.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.70.6.3561-3570.1996 
PMCID: PMC190231
PMID: 8648690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3790. Hypertension. 1996 Jun;27(6):1341-5.

Bosentan ameliorates cyclosporin A-induced hypertension in rats and primates.

Bartholomeusz B(1), Hardy KJ, Nelson AS, Phillips PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Cyclosporine-induced hypertension is a major problem in transplant therapy. The
pathophysiology of this disease is unclear. Cyclosporine increases endothelin
synthesis and release, which may contribute to this hypertension. We examined the
effects of chronic endothelin receptor blockade with the novel nonpeptide
endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan in two animal models of
cyclosporine-induced hypertension. Cyclosporine was administered daily to female 
Wistar rats (10 mg/kg per day SC for 30 days) and marmosets (30 mg/kg per day PO 
for 20 days). Control rats received vehicle. Tail-cuff systolic pressure was
significantly elevated in the cyclosporine-treated animals before the last week
of treatment. Bosentan (100 mg/kg) in arabic gum or arabic gum alone was given
daily to the rats by gavage during the last 5 days of cyclosporine treatment and 
to the marmosets for the last 7 days of cyclosporine treatment. Tail-cuff
systolic pressure was measured daily during bosentan treatment. Bosentan but not 
gum alone significantly lowered blood pressure in the cyclosporine-hypertensive
rats from 134 +/- l to 122 +/- 3 mm Hg (P<.Ol) and in the
cyclosporine-hypertensive marmosets from 156 +/- 2 to 139+/- 4 mm Hg (P<.Ol).
There were no differential effects on plasma creatinine concentration, endothelin
concentration, or end-organ weights. Bosentan had no effect in the
vehicle-treated rats. These data provide further evidence to support a role for
endothelin in cyclosporine-induced hypertension and demonstrate the effectiveness
of endothelin receptor antagonism as a novel treatment in cyclosporine-induced
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.27.6.1341 
PMID: 8641746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

