

3792. Comp Biochem Physiol A Physiol. 1996 May;114(1):1-8.

The digestive strategy of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Caton JM(1), Hill DM, Hume ID, Crook GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Archaeology and Anthropology, Australian National University,
Canberra, Australia.

Digestive tract morphology and function were studied in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a small (350 g) exudivore with a well-developed caecum.
Transit times (times of first appearance of the markers in the faeces following a
pulse dose in the food) were similar for Co-EDTA, which marks the fluid phase of 
the digesta, and Cr-mordanted cell walls, which marked the large (600-1200
microns) particulate phase of the digesta. However, mean retention time (the
average time taken for the markers to transverse the whole digestive tract) for
Co-EDTA was significantly longer than for Cr-cell walls, indicating selective
retention of fluid digesta relative to large particles, probably in the caecum.
These data are consistent with a digestive strategy of the common marmoset that
appears to be based on rapid digestion of higher quality foods (animal prey,
fruits) in the small intestine, followed by microbial fermentation of the complex
polysaccharides of plant exudates in the caecum, which would allow for
considerable dietary flexibility in its natural habitat of scrub forests.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(95)02013-6 
PMID: 8925425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3793. Genomics. 1996 Apr 15;33(2):214-9.

Homologies between human and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) chromosomes revealed
by comparative chromosome painting.

Sherlock JK(1), Griffin DK, Delhanty JD, Parrington JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics and Biometry, Galton Laboratory, University College
London, United Kingdom.

Regions of DNA homology between human and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
chromosomes have been demonstrated using fluorescence in situ hybridization. All 
24 chromosome paints and two centromere repeat sequences from Homo sapiens (HSA) 
have been annealed to previously G-banded metaphase spreads of Callithrix
jacchus. All human paint probes, except Y, successfully hybridized to marmoset
chromosomes. Fifteen of them hybridized to one region only, seven to two regions,
and paint 1 to three regions. Homologies proposed from previous banding
comparisons have been confirmed for HSA 2, 4-6, 10-12, 18, 19, 21 and X and
partially confirmed for HSA 1 and 3, but were not in agreement for HSA 14 and 17.
Human centromere repeat sequences for X and 18 did not hybridize to marmoset
chromosomes. Because, at present, there is the confusion situation of several
different numbering systems for marmoset chromosomes, we propose a new simpler
nomenclature based on descending order of chromosome size.

DOI: 10.1006/geno.1996.0186 
PMID: 8660970  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

