

3796. Int J Androl. 1996 Apr;19(2):113-21.

Maturation of sperm motility in the epididymis of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis).

Yeung CH(1), Morrell JM, Cooper TG, Weinbauer GF, Hodges JK, Nieschlag E.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, MÃ¼nster, Germany.

The acquisition by spermatozoa of the capacity for movement upon liberation from 
the epididymal duct into buffer is one of the obvious changes associated with
sperm maturation and, hence, studies of sperm kinematics might provide good
indices for sperm maturation. Profiles of development in the movement pattern of 
spermatozoa taken from six regions of the epididymis were established in marmoset
and cynomolgus monkeys using computer-assisted sperm analysis. Motion of
spermatozoa from initial regions was sluggish and irregular, then developed in
the more distal region into erratic movement effected by an increase in the
vigour of flagellation as reflected by curvilinear velocity. The tendency of
immature spermatozoa to display circular motion was more common in the marmoset
than in the cynomolgus monkey. In the marmoset the most drastic changes in
percentage motility and kinematic parameters of spermatozoa occurred between the 
distal caput and the proximal corpus; maximal values for these parameters were
found around the distal corpus epididymis. For the cynomolgus spermatozoa the
sharpest gain in percentage motility was also achieved between the caput and
proximal corpus epididymis, but with full kinematic development in the proximal
cauda epididymis. These maturational changes were not synchronous among
spermatozoa from the same site as they moved along the epididymis, as reflected
in the heterogeneity of each sample in the kinematic properties of individual
spermatozoa, especially those from the proximal corpus epididymis. The
maturational profiles in the monkeys are comparable to the situation in the
human, for which they may provide a useful model.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1996.tb00447.x 
PMID: 8737043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3797. Biochem Genet. 1996 Apr;34(3-4):109-16.

Molecular mechanism of null expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase-1 in rat liver.

Chen J(1), Yanagawa Y, Yoshida A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemical Genetics, Beckman Research Institute of the City of 
Hope, Duarte, California 91010, USA.

In isozyme systems in general, the pattern of tissue-dependent expression of a
given type of isozyme is uniform in various mammalian species. In contrast, a
major cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase isozyme, termed ALDH1, which is strongly
expressed in the livers of humans and other mammals, is hardly detectable in rat 
liver. Thirteen nucleotides existing in the 5'-promoter region of human,
marmoset, and mouse ALDH1 genes are absent in the four rat strains examined. When
the 13 nucleotides were deleted from a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase
expression construct, which contained the 5'-promoter region of the human ALDH1
gene and a low-background promoterless chloramphenicol acetyltransferase
expression vector, the expression activity was severely diminished in human
hepatic cells. Thus, deletion of the 13 nucleotides in the promoter region of the
gene can account for the lack of ALDH1 expression in rat liver.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02396244 
PMID: 8734411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

