

3800. Ann Anat. 1996 Apr;178(2):159-67.

C-cells of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Maile S(1), Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The localization and fine structure of C-cells of the thyroid glands from 31
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) of different age groups (newborn to 11 years old) 
were investigated by electron microscopy and immunomorphology (APAAP,
calcitonin). Calcitonin-positive cells were found concentrated in the middle
third of the gland. Their localization in the follicular wall or in the
interstitial space could not clearly be demonstrated by light microscopy. In
adult animals, they were always located within the basal lamina, as revealed by
electron microscopy. In newborn animals, their localization was difficult because
of the dense cell packing. The fine structure of the C-cells with their 200 nm
electron-dense granules corresponded to that of other species. Two cell types
could be distinguished: (1) granule-rich cells in the storing phase and (2) cells
with fewer granules and well-developed rough endoplasmic reticulum in the
synthesis phase. The concentration of C-cells in the middle third of the marmoset
thyroid gland renders this species especially suitable for morphological
investigations and in vitro experiments.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(96)80036-7 
PMID: 8638770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3801. J Med Chem. 1996 Mar 29;39(7):1413-22.

The squalestatins: inhibitors of squalene synthase. Enzyme inhibitory activities 
and in vivo evaluation of C3-modified analogues.

Procopiou PA(1), Cox B, Kirk BE, Lester MG, McCarthy AD, Sareen M, Sharratt PJ,
Snowden MA, Spooner SJ, Watson NS, Widdowson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Glaxo Wellcome Research and Development,
Medicines Research Center, Stevenage, United Kingdom.

Squalestatin analogues modified at C3 were prepared and evaluated for their
ability to inhibit rat liver microsomal squalene synthase in vitro. While the
4,6-dimethyloctenoate ester group at C6 was maintained, a number of modifications
to the C3 carboxylic acid were well tolerated. However, in the absence of the C6 
ester group, similar modifications to the C3 carboxyl group caused loss of
activity. Selected compounds were evaluated for their ability to inhibit
cholesterol biosynthesis in vivo in rats 1 and 6 h postadministration. Analogues 
of squalestatin 1 (S1) modified at C3 were found to possess a shorter duration of
effect in vivo which is reflected in their substantially reduced ability to lower
serum cholesterol levels in marmosets. Significant cholesterol lowering (up to
62%) for the C3 hydroxymethyl analogue 1b was observed only when this compound
was dosed three times a day for 3 days.

DOI: 10.1021/jm950893j 
PMID: 8691471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

