

3801. J Med Chem. 1996 Mar 29;39(7):1413-22.

The squalestatins: inhibitors of squalene synthase. Enzyme inhibitory activities 
and in vivo evaluation of C3-modified analogues.

Procopiou PA(1), Cox B, Kirk BE, Lester MG, McCarthy AD, Sareen M, Sharratt PJ,
Snowden MA, Spooner SJ, Watson NS, Widdowson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Glaxo Wellcome Research and Development,
Medicines Research Center, Stevenage, United Kingdom.

Squalestatin analogues modified at C3 were prepared and evaluated for their
ability to inhibit rat liver microsomal squalene synthase in vitro. While the
4,6-dimethyloctenoate ester group at C6 was maintained, a number of modifications
to the C3 carboxylic acid were well tolerated. However, in the absence of the C6 
ester group, similar modifications to the C3 carboxyl group caused loss of
activity. Selected compounds were evaluated for their ability to inhibit
cholesterol biosynthesis in vivo in rats 1 and 6 h postadministration. Analogues 
of squalestatin 1 (S1) modified at C3 were found to possess a shorter duration of
effect in vivo which is reflected in their substantially reduced ability to lower
serum cholesterol levels in marmosets. Significant cholesterol lowering (up to
62%) for the C3 hydroxymethyl analogue 1b was observed only when this compound
was dosed three times a day for 3 days.

DOI: 10.1021/jm950893j 
PMID: 8691471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3802. Nature. 1996 Mar 7;380(6569):69-72.

Dissociation in prefrontal cortex of affective and attentional shifts.

Dias R(1), Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

The prefrontal cortex is implicated in such human characteristics as volition,
planning, abstract reasoning and affect. Frontal-lobe damage can cause
disinhibition such that the behaviour of a subject is guided by previously
acquired responses that are inappropriate to the current situation. Here we
demonstrate that disinhibition, or a loss of inhibitory control, can be selective
for particular cognitive functions and that different regions of the prefrontal
cortex provide inhibitory control in different aspects of cognitive processing.
Thus, whereas damage to the lateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmann's area 9) in
monkeys causes a loss of inhibitory control in attentional selection, damage to
the orbito-frontal cortex in monkeys causes a loss of inhibitory control in
'affective' processing, thereby impairing the ability to alter behaviour in
response to fluctuations in the emotional significance of stimuli. These findings
not only support the view that the prefrontal cortex has multiple functions, but 
also provide evidence for the distribution of different cognitive functions
within specific regions of prefrontal cortex.

DOI: 10.1038/380069a0 
PMID: 8598908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

