

3807. Xenobiotica. 1996 Mar;26(3):333-45.

Pharmacokinetics of remikiren, a potent orally active inhibitor of human renin,
in rat, dog and primates.

Coassolo P(1), Fischli W, Clozel JP, Chou RC.

Author information: 
(1)Pharma Division Preclinical Research, F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG, Basel,
Switzerland.

1. An hplc method with fluorescence derivatization was developed for the
quantification of remikiren in plasma (limit of quantification 2 ng/ml). This was
used to determine the pharmacokinetics in various species of primate, in which
the compound is a potent inhibitor of renin, as well as in the rat and dog in
which it is less active. 2. After intravenous administration the mean residence
time was < or = 1.5 h in all species, and the plasma clearance approached the
corresponding hepatic blood flows. 3. Studies in the bile-duct cannulated rat and
dog demonstrated that the high clearance was due to a combination of rapid
metabolism, plus biliary and renal excretion of intact drug. 4. Consistent with
the high hepatic clearance, oral bioavailability was low ( < or = 6%) in each
species. However, all of the species tested absorbed a small proportion of an
oral dose extremely rapidly, to give peak concentrations generally within 5 min
of administration. 5. 'Simultaneous' collection of blood samples from the hepatic
portal vein and aorta of rat confirmed that shortly after oral dosing the intact 
drug did cross the liver; however, the later collections contained predominantly 
more polar metabolites. 6. The rapid absorption of intact remikiren is consistent
with the transient blockade of plasma renin activity, previously observed in
primates after oral administration. However, the high clearance appears
inconsistent with the subsequent prolonged decrease in blood pressure, suggesting
that the latter effect is mediated through a 'tissue' compartment.

DOI: 10.3109/00498259609046712 
PMID: 8730924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3808. J Androl. 1996 Mar-Apr;17(2):164-72.

Influence of semen collection method on ejaculate characteristics in the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Morrell JM(1), Küderling I, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum, Göttingen, Germany.

A source of normal spermatozoa (sperm) is required for many andrological and
reproductive studies. Ideally the method used for semen collection should be
repeatable and reliable but should not influence sperm characteristics or sperm
function. Two methods of semen collection from marmosets, vaginal washing after
copulation and electroejaculation, were compared in terms of the success rate in 
obtaining samples and the characteristics of the sperm suspensions. Vaginal
washing was shown to be a reliable, repeatable, and apparently non-stressful
method of obtaining ejaculates, with 8 out of 10 males ejaculating on at least
four of the five attempts. The semen was of good quality as assessed by
conventional means, and the sperm were highly fertile when used for artificial
insemination (Al; 100% conception rate). In contrast, fewer ejaculates were
obtained from the same males by electroejaculation (success rate 30%), sperm
survival in vitro was reduced compared to sperm collected by vaginal washing
(0.93 +/- 0.15 days for electroejaculated sperm compared to 1.98 +/- 0.3 days for
sperm from vaginal washing), and the number of animals giving birth after Al was 
smaller (0 vs. 6; P < 0.05). The proportions of motile (74.8 vs. 70.7%), live
(84.7 vs. 81%), and morphologically normal (91.9 vs. 87.6%) sperm in the
ejaculates were not affected by the semen collection method, but velocity
parameters, such as curvilinear velocity, straight line velocity, and average
path velocity, as assessed by computerized motility analysis, were significantly 
lower in vaginal washings than in electroejaculates (P < 0.023, 0.008, and 0.008,
respectively). Mean angular deviation and beat cross frequency were greater in
vaginal washings than in electroejaculates (P < 0.016 and 0.008, respectively).
Therefore the effect of semen collection method on sperm function should always
be considered when designing reproductive studies.


PMID: 8723441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

