

3811. J Exp Med. 1996 Mar 1;183(3):1215-28.

Human Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes home
preferentially to and induce selective regressions of autologous EBV-induced B
cell lymphoproliferations in xenografted C.B-17 scid/scid mice.

Lacerda JF(1), Ladanyi M, Louie DC, Fernandez JM, Papadopoulos EB, O'Reilly RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center,
New York 10021, USA.

Erratum in
    J Exp Med 1996 Sep 1;184(3):1199.

C.B-17 scid/scid (severe combined immunodeficiency [SCID]) mice inoculated with
peripheral blood lymphocytes from Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-seropositive donors,
or with EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid B cell lines (EBV-LCL), develop lethal
human EBV+ B cell lymphoproliferative disorders (EBV-LPD) with characteristics
similar to those arising in immunodeficient patients. Using this model, we
examined the capacity of human effector cells to control human EBV-LPD. SCID mice
received rabbit anti-asialo GM1 antiserum to abrogate endogenous natural
killer-cell function. Preliminary experiments showed that adoptive transfer of
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), purified T cells, interleukin (IL)
2-activated PBMC or anti-CD3-activated T cells derived from EBV-seropositive
donors did not result in improved survival of treated mice (in vivo
effector/target ratio 2:1 to 1:1). In contrast, EBV-specific cytotoxic T
lymphocytes (CTL), derived from EBV-seropositive donors and expanded in vitro,
exhibited strong EBV-specific and HLA-restricted activity both in vitro and in
vivo. SCID mice inoculated intraperitoneally with autologous but not with
HLA-mismatched EBV-LCL had significantly improved survival relative to untreated 
mice after inoculation of EBV-specific CTL either intraperitoneally (P<0.001) or 
intravenously (P<0.001) (in vivo effector/target ratio 1:1). SCID mice bearing
large subcutaneous EBV+ tumors and treated intravenously with 10(7) EBV-specific 
CTL achieved complete tumor regression. Both CTL- and CTL-plus-IL-2-treated mice 
survived significantly longer than untreated animals or animals treated with IL-2
alone (P = 0.0004 and P<0.02, respectively). SCID mice bearing two subcutaneous
EBV+ tumors, one autologous and the other HLA mismatched to the EBV-specific CTL 
donor, had regression of only the autologous tumor after intravenous infusion of 
10(7) EBV-specific CTL. Moreover, we could demonstrate preferential homing of
PKH26-labeled EBV-specific CTL to autologous but not to HLA-mismatched EBV+
tumors as early as 24 h after intravenous adoptive transfer. Immunophenotypic
analyses also demonstrated preferential infiltration of T cells into the
autologous EBV+ tumor in SCID mice bearing both the autologous and either fully
HLA-mismatched or genotypically related haplotype-sharing EBV+ tumors. The human 
T cells infiltrating EBV+ tumors were CD3+ and, predominantly, CD8+CD4-. Our
results indicate that EBV-specific CTL preferentially localize to and infiltrate 
EBV+ tumors bearing the appropriate HLA antigens and thereafter induce targeted
regressions of disease.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.183.3.1215 
PMCID: PMC2192329
PMID: 8642263  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3812. J Infect Dis. 1996 Mar;173(3):592-7.

A simian strain of hepatitis A virus, AGM-27, functions as an attenuated vaccine 
for chimpanzees.

Emerson SU(1), Tsarev SA, Govindarajan S, Shapiro M, Purcell RH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Infectious Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland, 20892-0740, USA.

The AGM-27 strain OF hepatitis A virus (HAV) was originally isolated from an
African green monkey with hepatitis and appears to represent a true simian
strain. The virus caused acute hepatitis after intravenous inoculation into
African green monkeys, rhesus monkeys, and marmosets. Cynomolgus monkeys
inoculated with the virus did not develop hepatitis, probably because of prior
exposure to HAV. Chimpanzees inoculated with a high dose of the virus did not
develop signs of hepatitis, although the virus replicated and the animals
seroconverted. Marmosets and chimpanzees convalescent from infection with the
AGM-27 strain of HAV were rechallenged with the virulent HM-175 strain of human
HAV. They were partially or totally protected from disease.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/173.3.592 
PMID: 8627022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

