

3812. J Infect Dis. 1996 Mar;173(3):592-7.

A simian strain of hepatitis A virus, AGM-27, functions as an attenuated vaccine 
for chimpanzees.

Emerson SU(1), Tsarev SA, Govindarajan S, Shapiro M, Purcell RH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Infectious Disease, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland, 20892-0740, USA.

The AGM-27 strain OF hepatitis A virus (HAV) was originally isolated from an
African green monkey with hepatitis and appears to represent a true simian
strain. The virus caused acute hepatitis after intravenous inoculation into
African green monkeys, rhesus monkeys, and marmosets. Cynomolgus monkeys
inoculated with the virus did not develop hepatitis, probably because of prior
exposure to HAV. Chimpanzees inoculated with a high dose of the virus did not
develop signs of hepatitis, although the virus replicated and the animals
seroconverted. Marmosets and chimpanzees convalescent from infection with the
AGM-27 strain of HAV were rechallenged with the virulent HM-175 strain of human
HAV. They were partially or totally protected from disease.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/173.3.592 
PMID: 8627022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3813. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Feb 26;366(1):76-92.

Morphology of retinal ganglion cells in a new world monkey, the marmoset
Callithrix jacchus.

Ghosh KK(1), Goodchild AK, Sefton AE, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

We studied the morphology of retinal ganglion cells in a diurnal New World
primate, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus. This species is of interest as a model 
for primate vision because it has good behavioural visual acuity, and the retina 
and subcortical visual pathways are very similar to those of Old World monkeys
and humans. Ganglion cells were labelled by placing small crystals of the
carbocyanin dye DiI into the optic fibre layer, or by intracellular injection of 
neurobiotin. Two main classes of ganglion cell were labelled. We call these Group
A cells and Group B cells: they are respectively homologous to parasol and midget
cell classes. Group A and Group B cells show similar patterns of dye coupling,
dendritic stratification and dendritic field size as their counterparts in Old
World monkeys and humans. A third group of cells, which we call Group C, is
morphologically heterogeneous. Examples corresponding to wide-field ganglion cell
types described in Old World primates were encountered. One subgroup of C cells
has a morphology very similar to that of the small bistratified (blue-on) cell
described in macaque retina, suggesting that this functional pathway is common to
all primates. As for other New World monkeys, the marmoset shows a sex-linked
polymorphism of cone pigment expression, such that all males are dichromats and
the majority of females are trichromats. No systematic differences in Group B
cells were seen between male and female retinas, suggesting that trichromacy is
not accompanied by specific changes in ganglion cell morphology.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960226)366:1<76::AID-CNE6>3.0.CO;2-H 
PMID: 8866847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

