

3814. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Feb 26;366(1):55-75.

Comparison of photoreceptor spatial density and ganglion cell morphology in the
retina of human, macaque monkey, cat, and the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Goodchild AK(1), Ghosh KK, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

We studied the relationship between the morphology of ganglion cells and the
spatial density of photoreceptors in the retina of two Old World primates, human 
and macaque monkey; the diurnal New World marmoset Callithrix jacchus; and the
cat. Ganglion cells in macaque and marmoset were labelled by intracellular
injection with Neurobiotin or by DiI diffusion labelling in fixed tissue. Cone
photoreceptor densities were measured from the same retinas. Supplemental data
for macaque and data for human and cat were taken from published studies. For the
primates studied, the central retina is characterised by a constant numerical
convergence of cones to ganglion cells. Midget ganglion cells derive their input,
via a midget bipolar cell, from a single cone. Parasol cells derive their input
from 40-140 cones. Outside the central retina, the convergence increases with
eccentricity. The convergence to beta cells in the cat retina is very close to
that for parasol cells in primate retina. The convergence of rod photoreceptors
to ganglion cells is similar in human, macaque, and marmoset, with parasol cells 
receiving input from 10-15 times more rods than midget cells. The low convergence
of cones to midget cells in human and macaque retinas is associated with
distinctive dendritic "clusters" in midget cells' dendritic fields. Convergence
in marmoset is higher, and the clusters are absent. We conclude that the
complementary changes in photoreceptor density and ganglion cell morphology
should be considered when forming linking hypotheses between dendritic field,
receptive field, and psychophysical properties of primate vision.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960226)366:1<55::AID-CNE5>3.0.CO;2-J 
PMID: 8866846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3815. Biochem Pharmacol. 1996 Feb 23;51(4):413-21.

RP 64477: a potent inhibitor of acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol O-acyltransferase
with low systemic bioavailability.

Bello AA(1), Bright C, Burton BJ, Bush RC, Casey JH, Dron DI, Facchini V, Joannou
PP, Parrott DP, Riddell D, Roberts SA, Williams RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Discovery Drug Disposition, Dagenham Research Centre,
Rh√¥ne-Poulenc Rorer LTD., Essex, U.K.

RP 64477 (N-butyl-3-(p-decyloxybenzamido)-4-(methylthio)benzamide) has been shown
to be a potent inhibitor of the cholesterol esterifying enzyme Acyl-coenzyme
A:cholesterol O-acyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.26; ACAT) in intestinal, hepatic,
adrenal, and arterial tissue preparations obtained from a range of animal
species. Drug concentrations producing 50% inhibition of enzyme activity (IC50
values) ranged from 14-283 nM. Inhibition by RP 64477 in a rabbit intestinal
enzyme preparation was shown to be non-competitive with respect to the substrate 
oleoyl-CoA. In whole cell assays using human intestinal (CaCo-2), hepatic HepG2) 
and monocytic (THP-1) cell lines, RP 64477 inhibited ACAT activity with IC50s of 
113, 503, and 180 nM, respectively. RP 64477 (0.03% w/w by diet) reduced
significantly cholesterol absorption in cholesterol/cholic acid-fed rats from
94+/- 8% to 65 +/- 4%. In cholesterol-fed rabbits, cholesterol absorption was
reduced from 72 +/- 5% to 50 +/-5% and 44 +/- 5% at dose levels of 10 and 30 mg
kg-1 b.i.d., respectively. Plasma cholesterol levels were reduced
dose-dependently in both cholesterol/cholic-acid-fed rats and cholesterol-fed
rabbits. Neither cholesterol absorption nor plasma cholesterol levels were
reduced significantly in animals maintained on standard laboratory diets.
Pharmacokinetic studies indicated that RP 64477 were very poorly absorbed
following oral administration to rats. Plasma levels of drug were < 2 ng mL-1
following a dose of 2000 mg kg-1 p.o.. When radiolabelled RP 64477 was
administered orally, limited absorption was indicated by the overwhelming
elimination of radioactivity in the faces (96.4% of administered material)
coupled with low renal clearance (0.6% of dose) and biliary excretion (0.05% of
dose). In conclusion, this work shows that RP 64477 is a potent inhibitor of ACAT
obtained from a range of animal species and man. Inhibition of cholesterol
absorption and hypocholesterolaemic activity has been demonstrated in rats and
rabbits maintained on diets supplemented with cholesterol. Pharmacokinetic
studies indicate low systemic exposure to RP 64477 as a result of limited
absorption of this drug.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(95)02186-8 
PMID: 8619885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

