

3816. Brain Res. 1996 Feb 19;709(2):259-64.

Dopamine D3 receptors in the basal ganglia of the common marmoset and following
MPTP and L-DOPA treatment.

Hurley MJ(1), Jolkkonen J, Stubbs CM, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Biomedical Sciences Division,
Kings College, London, UK.

The distribution of the dopamine D3 receptor was studied by receptor
autoradiography using [3H]7-OH-DPAT in striatal and extrastriatal brain regions
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Saturation studies demonstrated that
[3H]7-OH-DPAT bound with similar affinity to different regions of marmoset brain.
In normal marmosets, specific [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding was found in both striatal
and extrastriatal regions. Very high levels of specific [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding
were detected in the islands of Calleja and nucleus accumbens but in addition
high levels of binding were detected in rostral caudate nucleus and putamen. In
common marmosets treated with the selective nigral neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), the levels of specific
[3H]7-OH-DPAT binding in striatal and extrastriatal regions were not different to
those in normal animals. Chronic treatment of MPTP-treated marmosets with L-DOPA/
carbidopa did not alter the levels of specific [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding in any brain
region. These results demonstrate that in common marmosets D3 receptors are
located in both striatal and limbic regions. The receptor density is not altered 
by dopaminergic denervation or by chronic L-DOPA administration. The D3 receptor 
may, therefore, be important in both the therapeutic and adverse effects of drugs
used to treat Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(95)01309-1 
PMID: 8833762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3817. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Feb 19;365(4):628-39.

Shell and core in monkey and human nucleus accumbens identified with antibodies
to calbindin-D28k.

Meredith GE(1), Pattiselanno A, Groenewegen HJ, Haber SN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Vrije Universiteit Faculty of Medicine, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands. gmeredit@gate.rcsi.ie

The neurochemical division of the rodent nucleus accumbens into shell and core is
now a widely accepted concept. However, such divisions in the primate nucleus
accumbens have yet to be fully clarified and described. In the present study, the
forebrains of three primates--marmoset, rhesus monkey, and human--and a Wistar
rat, were immunoreacted with antibodies directed against calbindin-D28k. The
patterns of immunoreactivity in the primates' ventral striatum were mapped and
compared to that of rat. Calbindin staining was uneven in all species and there
was no evidence of a bicompartmental organization, i.e., striosome/patch and
matrix, in central parts of the nucleus. Nucleus accumbens in primates, as in
rat, could be divided immunohistochemically into a crescent-shaped outer
shell--medially, ventrally and laterally--and an inner core. In general, medial
parts of the shell stained less intensely for calbindin than did lateral parts.
However, interspecific variation in the intensity of the immunoreactive staining 
and the mediolateral extent of the shell was obvious. The core, which
immunostained unevenly, was consistently more intensely immunoreactive than
either medial or lateral shell in all species except the marmoset. These results 
suggest that the neurochemical subdivisions of shell and core established for
nucleus accumbens of rodents are also present in primates. However, further work 
is needed to establish whether these territories are homologous and, if so, the
full extent of that homology.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960219)365:4<628::AID-CNE9>3.0.CO;2-6 
PMID: 8742307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

