

3819. Br J Pharmacol. 1996 Feb;117(3):427-434.

In vitro and in vivo profile of SB 206553, a potent 5-HT2C/5-HT2B receptor
antagonist with anxiolytic-like properties.

Kennett GA(1), Wood MD, Bright F, Cilia J, Piper DC, Gager T, Thomas D, Baxter
GS, Forbes IT, Ham P, Blackburn TP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Essex.

1. SB 206553 (5-methyl-1-(3-pyridylcarbamoyl)-1,2,3,5-tetrahydropyrrolo[2
,3-f]indole) displays a high affinity (pK1 7.9) for the cloned human 5-HT2C
receptor expressed in HEK 293 cells and the 5-HT2B receptor (pA2 8.9) as measured
in the rat stomach fundus preparation. SB 206553 has low affinity for cloned
human 5-HT2A receptors expressed in HEK 293 cells (pK1 5.8) and (pK1 < 6) for a
wide variety of other neurotransmitter receptors. 2. SB 206553 appears to be a
surmountable antagonist of 5-HT-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis in HEK 293
cells expressing the human 5-HT2C receptor (pKB 9.0). 3. The compound potently
(ID50 5.5 mg kg-1, p.o., 0.27 mg kg-1, i.v.) inhibited the hypolocomotor response
to m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP), a putative model of 5-HT2C/5-HT2B receptor
function in vivo. 4. At similar doses (2-20 mg kg-1, p.o.) SB 206553 increased
total interaction scores in a rat social interaction test and increased punished 
responding in a rat Geller-Seifter conflict test. These effects are consistent
with the possession of anxiolytic properties. 5. SB 206553 also increased
suppressed responding in a marmoset conflict model of anxiety at somewhat higher 
doses (15 and 20 mg kg-1, p.o.) but also reduced unsuppressed responding. 6.
These results suggest that SB 206553 is a potent mixed 5-HT2C/5-HT2B receptor
antagonist with selectivity over the 5-HT2A and all other sites studied and
possesses anxiolytic-like properties.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1996.tb15208.x 
PMCID: PMC1909304
PMID: 8821530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3820. Behav Brain Res. 1996 Feb;75(1-2):13-25.

Cognitive functions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in monkeys: memory 
or attention?

Voytko ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, Bowman Gray School of Medicine,
Winston-Salem, NC 27157-1040, USA. mlvoytko@cpm.bgsm.wfu.edu

The cholinergic hypothesis of memory dysfunction originally proposed that
dysfunction of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain cholinergic system
(BFCS) may be responsible for the memory deficits associated with aging and
Alzheimer's disease (AD). This hypothesis directed focus on the BFCS in
experimental animal models of AD. In contrast to numerous studies in rodents,
fewer investigations have been conducted in monkeys with BFCS lesions. The
medical septal nucleus/nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca (MS/NDBB) and the
nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) may be involved in different cognitive functions
in monkeys. Although few investigations have specifically addressed the issue of 
cognitive functions of the MS/NDBB in monkeys, there is some indication that
these regions may be important for memory. In contrast, lesions of the NBM do not
consistently disrupt mnemonic functions in monkeys. Recent electrophysiological
and lesion studies of monkeys indicate that the NBM may play a more important
role in attention functions, impairments of which are an early and significant
feature of patients with AD.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-4328(95)00143-3 
PMID: 8800650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

