

3823. Am J Gastroenterol. 1996 Feb;91(2):217-22.

Hepatitis A vaccine.

Bader TF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Kaiser Permanente, Denver, Colorado.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 1996 Aug;91(8):1670-1.

Hepatitis A continues to cause sporadic cases, epidemics, and occasional deaths
in the United States. A killed virus vaccine for immunization against hepatitis A
has recently been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. One hundred
percent seroconversion occurs after a series consisting of a primary dose and a
second booster shot 6-12 months later. Co-administration of immune-globulin and
hepatitis A vaccine lowers ultimate antibody levels 50% compared with vaccine
alone. Targets for immunization will probably be children, international
travelers, military personnel, and food handlers. It will also be useful for
general vaccination in areas where smoldering epidemics occur. Natural immunity
levels in the United States population have undergone a significant decline since
1980 and are currently in the 21-33% range. Prescreening for immunity is likely
to be cost-effective in persons over age 40.


PMID: 8607483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3824. J Med Chem. 1996 Jan 5;39(1):207-16.

The squalestatins: decarboxy and 4-deoxy analogues as potent squalene synthase
inhibitors.

Chan C(1), Andreotti D, Cox B, Dymock BW, Hutson JL, Keeling SE, McCarthy AD,
Procopiou PA, Ross BC, Sareen M, Scicinski JJ, Sharratt PJ, Snowden MA, Watson
NS.

Author information: 
(1)Glaxo Wellcome Research & Development, Medicines Research Centre, Stevenage,
Herfordshire, UK.

Squalestatins without either the hydroxy group at C-4 or the carboxylic acid at
C-3 or C-4 were prepared and evaluated for their ability to inhibit rat liver
microsomal squalene synthase (SQS) in vitro. These modifications were well
tolerated for compounds with the 4,6-dimethyloctenoate ester at C-6 (S1 series). 
However in analogues without the C-6 ester (H1 series), removal of the C-4
hydroxy group gave compounds with reduced potency, whereas decarboxylation at C-3
resulted in a dramatic loss of SQS inhibitory activity. In comparison with S1 1, 
C-4 deoxyS1 3 and C-3 decarboxyS1 10 have shorter in vivo durations of action on 
the inhibition of hepatic cholesterol biosynthesis in rats. C-4 deoxyS1 3 retains
good serum cholesterol-lowering ability in marmosets, while C-3 decarboxyS1 10
showed only a marginal effect even at high dose.

DOI: 10.1021/jm9504969 
PMID: 8568810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

