

3824. J Med Chem. 1996 Jan 5;39(1):207-16.

The squalestatins: decarboxy and 4-deoxy analogues as potent squalene synthase
inhibitors.

Chan C(1), Andreotti D, Cox B, Dymock BW, Hutson JL, Keeling SE, McCarthy AD,
Procopiou PA, Ross BC, Sareen M, Scicinski JJ, Sharratt PJ, Snowden MA, Watson
NS.

Author information: 
(1)Glaxo Wellcome Research & Development, Medicines Research Centre, Stevenage,
Herfordshire, UK.

Squalestatins without either the hydroxy group at C-4 or the carboxylic acid at
C-3 or C-4 were prepared and evaluated for their ability to inhibit rat liver
microsomal squalene synthase (SQS) in vitro. These modifications were well
tolerated for compounds with the 4,6-dimethyloctenoate ester at C-6 (S1 series). 
However in analogues without the C-6 ester (H1 series), removal of the C-4
hydroxy group gave compounds with reduced potency, whereas decarboxylation at C-3
resulted in a dramatic loss of SQS inhibitory activity. In comparison with S1 1, 
C-4 deoxyS1 3 and C-3 decarboxyS1 10 have shorter in vivo durations of action on 
the inhibition of hepatic cholesterol biosynthesis in rats. C-4 deoxyS1 3 retains
good serum cholesterol-lowering ability in marmosets, while C-3 decarboxyS1 10
showed only a marginal effect even at high dose.

DOI: 10.1021/jm9504969 
PMID: 8568810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3825. Am J Primatol. 1996;40(3):231-245. doi:
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)40:3<231::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-Z.

Urinary steroid and gonadotropin excretion across the reproductive cycle in
female Wied's black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli).

French JA(1), Brewer KJ(1), Schaffner CM(1), Schalley J(1), Hightower-Merritt
D(1), Smith TE(1), Bell SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Facility, Department of Psychology and Nebraska
Behavioral Biology Group, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Nebraska.

Details of the endocrinology of reproduction in the genus Callithrix are known
only for the common marmoset, C. jacchus. This paper presents the patterns of
urinary pregnandiol-3-glucuronide (PdG), urinary estrone conjugates (E1C), and
gonadotropin excretion throughout the reproductive cycle of Wied's black
tufted-ear marmoset (C. kuhli) as determined via steroid conjugate enzyme
immunoassays (EIA) and gonadotropin radioimmunoassays (RIA). Postpartum ovulation
occurred at 13.6 ± 1.2 days after parturition (n = 12) and was characterized by
low PdG and E1C concentrations accompanied by a spike in luteinizing hormone
(LH)/chorionic gonadotropin (CG) concentration. After conception, PdG
concentrations increased dramatically until they dropped to periovulatory
concentrations in the third trimester of pregnancy. Mean PdG concentrations in
the first and second trimesters (33.7 ± 8.4 and 39.0 ± 10.9 μg/mg creatinine,
respectively) were three times that of third trimester concentrations (11.7 ± 1.4
μg/mg Cr; n = 8). Urinary concentrations of E1C rose more gradually during
pregnancy and remained higher prepartum than urinary concentrations of PdG.
Urinary gonadotropin concentrations also increased after conception (first
trimester concentrations = 24.5 ± 4.5 ng/mg Cr) and continued to increase in the 
second trimester (51.4 ± 7.6 ng/mg Cr), until they finally decreased in the third
trimester (mean = 7.9 ± 1.4 ng/mg Cr; n = 8). The interbirth interval was 156.3 ±
2.9 days (n = 6), with a gestation of 143.1 ± 1.6 days (n = 8). Nonconceptive
cycle length was 24.9 ± 0.6 days (n = 4). The results of this study suggest
strong similarities in reproductive parameters in the genus Callithrix. © 1996
Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1996 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)40:3<231::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 31918517 

