

3825. Am J Primatol. 1996;40(3):231-245. doi:
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)40:3<231::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-Z.

Urinary steroid and gonadotropin excretion across the reproductive cycle in
female Wied's black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli).

French JA(1), Brewer KJ(1), Schaffner CM(1), Schalley J(1), Hightower-Merritt
D(1), Smith TE(1), Bell SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Facility, Department of Psychology and Nebraska
Behavioral Biology Group, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Nebraska.

Details of the endocrinology of reproduction in the genus Callithrix are known
only for the common marmoset, C. jacchus. This paper presents the patterns of
urinary pregnandiol-3-glucuronide (PdG), urinary estrone conjugates (E1C), and
gonadotropin excretion throughout the reproductive cycle of Wied's black
tufted-ear marmoset (C. kuhli) as determined via steroid conjugate enzyme
immunoassays (EIA) and gonadotropin radioimmunoassays (RIA). Postpartum ovulation
occurred at 13.6 ± 1.2 days after parturition (n = 12) and was characterized by
low PdG and E1C concentrations accompanied by a spike in luteinizing hormone
(LH)/chorionic gonadotropin (CG) concentration. After conception, PdG
concentrations increased dramatically until they dropped to periovulatory
concentrations in the third trimester of pregnancy. Mean PdG concentrations in
the first and second trimesters (33.7 ± 8.4 and 39.0 ± 10.9 μg/mg creatinine,
respectively) were three times that of third trimester concentrations (11.7 ± 1.4
μg/mg Cr; n = 8). Urinary concentrations of E1C rose more gradually during
pregnancy and remained higher prepartum than urinary concentrations of PdG.
Urinary gonadotropin concentrations also increased after conception (first
trimester concentrations = 24.5 ± 4.5 ng/mg Cr) and continued to increase in the 
second trimester (51.4 ± 7.6 ng/mg Cr), until they finally decreased in the third
trimester (mean = 7.9 ± 1.4 ng/mg Cr; n = 8). The interbirth interval was 156.3 ±
2.9 days (n = 6), with a gestation of 143.1 ± 1.6 days (n = 8). Nonconceptive
cycle length was 24.9 ± 0.6 days (n = 4). The results of this study suggest
strong similarities in reproductive parameters in the genus Callithrix. © 1996
Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1996 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)40:3<231::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 31918517 


3826. Am J Primatol. 1996;39(2):99-113. doi:
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)39:2<99::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-M.

Noninvasive monitoring of follicle development, ovulation, and corpus luteum
formation in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) by ultrasonography.

Oerke AK(1), Einspanier A(1), Hodges JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen, Germany.

This is the first paper to describe ovarian changes associated with follicular
growth, ovulation, and corpus luteum (CL) formation as monitored by
ultrasonography in a multiovular primate, the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus). Examinations were carried out transabdominally on unsedated females
using a 10 MHz probe. Cycles were monitored by plasma progesterone and controlled
by administration of prostaglandin F2α (PGF). The reliability of ultrasound was
validated by comparing findings with direct observation of the ovaries at
laparotomy. In eight females, 25 follicles were counted, of which 92% were
depicted correctly by ultrasound. Of 14 CLs in five females, number and position 
were confirmed at laparotomy for 78%. Ultrasound examinations of ovaries
throughout the follicular and luteal phase were performed in eight cycles and
related to plasma profiles of luteinizing hormone (LH) and progesterone. One of
these cycles was anovulatory. In the remaining seven cycles, 19 follicles were
considered ovulatory follicles since they were seen on consecutive days and found
again as CLs. Growth of individual follicles was monitored by measurements of
follicle diameter from day 7 onward. Disappearance of follicles or changes in
echogenicity were noted between days 9 and 11, preventing further measurements.
Mean follicle size increased from 2.1 mm (range 1.6 mm-2.7 mm) on day 7 to 3.2 mm
(range 2.7 mm-4.0 mm) on the day last seen. With one exception, the day follicles
were last seen by ultrasound was consistent with the day of the preovulatory LH
surge (day 9-11). The postovulatory rise in progesterone occurred 1-2 days later 
(day 11-13). These findings suggest that the day of ovulation as observed by
ultrasound was characterized by either disappearance of follicles or increased
follicular echogenicity. In conclusion, ultrasonography provides a reliable,
noninvasive method for examinations of the ovarian cycle in the marmoset monkey. 
© 1996 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1996 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)39:2<99::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-M 
PMID: 31918495 

