

3826. Am J Primatol. 1996;39(2):99-113. doi:
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)39:2<99::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-M.

Noninvasive monitoring of follicle development, ovulation, and corpus luteum
formation in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) by ultrasonography.

Oerke AK(1), Einspanier A(1), Hodges JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen, Germany.

This is the first paper to describe ovarian changes associated with follicular
growth, ovulation, and corpus luteum (CL) formation as monitored by
ultrasonography in a multiovular primate, the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus). Examinations were carried out transabdominally on unsedated females
using a 10 MHz probe. Cycles were monitored by plasma progesterone and controlled
by administration of prostaglandin F2α (PGF). The reliability of ultrasound was
validated by comparing findings with direct observation of the ovaries at
laparotomy. In eight females, 25 follicles were counted, of which 92% were
depicted correctly by ultrasound. Of 14 CLs in five females, number and position 
were confirmed at laparotomy for 78%. Ultrasound examinations of ovaries
throughout the follicular and luteal phase were performed in eight cycles and
related to plasma profiles of luteinizing hormone (LH) and progesterone. One of
these cycles was anovulatory. In the remaining seven cycles, 19 follicles were
considered ovulatory follicles since they were seen on consecutive days and found
again as CLs. Growth of individual follicles was monitored by measurements of
follicle diameter from day 7 onward. Disappearance of follicles or changes in
echogenicity were noted between days 9 and 11, preventing further measurements.
Mean follicle size increased from 2.1 mm (range 1.6 mm-2.7 mm) on day 7 to 3.2 mm
(range 2.7 mm-4.0 mm) on the day last seen. With one exception, the day follicles
were last seen by ultrasound was consistent with the day of the preovulatory LH
surge (day 9-11). The postovulatory rise in progesterone occurred 1-2 days later 
(day 11-13). These findings suggest that the day of ovulation as observed by
ultrasound was characterized by either disappearance of follicles or increased
follicular echogenicity. In conclusion, ultrasonography provides a reliable,
noninvasive method for examinations of the ovarian cycle in the marmoset monkey. 
© 1996 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1996 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)39:2<99::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-M 
PMID: 31918495 


3827. Am J Primatol. 1996;38(1):5-18. doi:
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)38:1<5::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-2.

Habitat and the evolution of social and reproductive behavior in callitrichidae.

Rylands AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

The numerous remarkable traits characterizing the ecology and behavior of
callitrichids have inspired considerable research and discussion of the flexible 
mating system (cases of monogamy, polygyny, and polyandry), cooperative breeding,
reproductive inhibition by dominant females, rapid reproductive rate,
significance of dietary differences (gum feeding, frugivory, and insectivory),
and demographics and social characteristics of the four genera, Cebuella,
Callithrix, Saguinus, and Leontopithecus. The majority of functional explanations
evaluate costs, benefits, and alternative strategies but do not address the
critical selective forces that led to the behaviors in the first place. In this
paper, it is argued that Callithrix and Saguinus evolved to occupy a small
insectivore/frugivore niche in secondary growth forest patches (gaps arising from
tree falls), and other successional forests and edge habitats; that Cebuella
evolved to occupy a gum-feeding/insectivore niche in inundated forest; and that
Leontopithecus is above all a small animal predator/frugivore and a mature forest
genus. The keys to explanations concerning the evolution of the social and
reproductive systems of these animals lie in an understanding of the resource
base in these different habitats. Finally, it should be remembered that studies
of callitrichids have in the main part been carried out in habitats highly
altered by human activities (especially the Brazilian Atlantic forest, home to
marmosets and lion tamarins) and are not the environments in which their social
and breeding behavior evolved. © 1996 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1996 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)38:1<5::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-2 
PMID: 31914713 

