

383. Sci Rep. 2019 Dec 17;9(1):19288. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-55365-7.

The DNA topoisomerase II inhibitor amsacrine as a novel candidate adjuvant in a
model of glaucoma filtration surgery.

Yamamoto K(1), Kokubun T(1), Sato K(1)(2), Akaishi T(3), Shimazaki A(3), Nakamura
M(3), Shiga Y(1), Tsuda S(1), Omodaka K(1), Saya H(4), Nakazawa T(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan.
(2)Department of Collaborative Program for Ophthalmic Drug Discovery, Tohoku
University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan.
(3)Research and Development Division, Santen Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Ikoma,
Nara, 630-0101, Japan.
(4)Division of Gene Regulation, Institute for Advanced Medical Research, School
of Medicine, Keio University, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582,
Japan.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan. ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.
(6)Department of Collaborative Program for Ophthalmic Drug Discovery, Tohoku
University Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan.
ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.
(7)Department of Retinal Disease Control, Ophthalmology, Tohoku University
Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan.
ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.
(8)Department of Advanced Ophthalmic Medicine, Tohoku University Graduate School 
of Medicine, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8574, Japan. ntoru@oph.med.tohoku.ac.jp.

Treatments for refractory glaucoma include trabeculectomy, in which a filtering
bleb is created to reduce aqueous pressure. Mitomycin C (MMC) is often used as an
adjuvant to reduce post-trabeculectomy bleb scarring and consequent failure.
However, scarring sometimes still occurs. Thus, we searched for more effective
trabeculectomy adjuvants with high-throughput screening (HTS) of a library of
1,165 off-patent drug compounds. This revealed that amsacrine (AMSA), a DNA
topoisomerase II (TOP2) inhibitor, was the top candidate. Compared to MMC,
rabbits that underwent trabeculectomy with 10% AMSA had lower IOP at 42, 56, and 
70 days (P < 0.01 at all measurement points) and a higher bleb score at 28, 42,
56, and 70 days (P =  < 0.01, 0.04, 0.04, and < 0.01, respectively). Compared to 
saline, rabbits that received 1% AMSA also had lower IOP and better bleb score at
all time points, without a sharp drop in IOP just after surgery (all P < 0.01).
Both effects were milder than MMC at 7 days (P = 0.02 and <0.01, respectively).
Thus, this study showed that HTS may help identify new, promising uses for
off-patent drugs. Furthermore, trabeculectomy with AMSA at a suitable
concentration may improve the prognosis after trabeculectomy compared to MMC.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-55365-7 
PMCID: PMC6917768
PMID: 31848363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Neurosci Lett. 2020 Jan 19;717:134686. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2019.134686. Epub
2019 Dec 12.

Distribution of tight junctions in the primate cochlear lateral wall.

Saeki T(1), Hosoya M(2), Shibata S(3), Okano H(4), Fujioka M(5), Ogawa K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Electron Microscope Laboratory, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Electron Microscope Laboratory, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
masato@2002.jukuin.keio.ac.jp.

The blood-labyrinth barrier (BLB) is a major structure that separates the inner
ear from the systemic blood circulation. Many drugs cannot access the inner ear
because of their inability to cross the BLB. In the cochlea, the BLB is mainly
distributed in the lateral wall. However, the ultrastructure of the cochlear
lateral wall, including the distribution of tight junctions (TJs), which are its 
main component, has not been thoroughly examined in primates. This study
investigated the distribution of TJs in the cochlear lateral wall of the common
marmoset by performing immunohistochemistry for TJ markers and transmission
electron microscopy. As previously reported in rodents, TJs were distributed at
the lumenal side of stria marginal cells and basal cells. In outer sulcus cells, 
which are more developed in primates than in rodents, TJs were distributed at the
side with the endolymph but not at the side with the spiral ligament, where many 
capillaries were located. These findings indicate that drugs and small compounds 
circulating systemically in the blood can easily access outer sulcus cells, but
have a limited ability to enter endolymph. No structural differences were
detected between species, indicating that the in vivo distribution of drugs in
cochlear lateral wall cells, including outer sulcus cells, in primates can be
predicted by performing rodent experiments.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2019.134686 
PMID: 31838016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

