

3835. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1996;387:443-6.

Induction of cytochromes P450 by dioxins in liver and lung of marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus).

Schulz TG(1), Neubert D, Davies DS, Edwards RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
London, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4757-9480-9_53 
PMID: 8794239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3836. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1996 Jan;40(1):110-4.

Preclinical pharmacokinetics and distribution to tissue of AG1343, an inhibitor
of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 protease.

Shetty BV(1), Kosa MB, Khalil DA, Webber S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Agouron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., San Diego,
California 92121, USA. shetty@agouron.com

AG1343, a potent inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)
protease (Ki = 2 nM), was designed by protein structure-based drug design
techniques. AG1343 has potent antiviral activity (95% effective dose = 0.04
microgram/ml) against a number of HIV-1 strains in acute and chronic models of
infection. As part of its preclinical development, the oral bioavailability of
AG1343 in rats, dogs, monkeys, and marmosets was determined and its tissue
distribution in rats was evaluated. There were no major interspecies differences 
in AG1343 pharmacokinetics. Following intravenous administration, the elimination
half-life of AG1343 ranged from 1 to 1.4 hr. The total volume of distribution (2 
to 7 liters/kg) exceeded the volume of total body water, indicating extensive
tissue distribution. Systemic clearance of AG1343 (1 to 4 liters/kg) in the
different species corresponded to hepatic blood flow, suggesting possible hepatic
involvement in the elimination of AG1343. Following oral administration, peak
levels in plasma ranged from 0.34 microgram/ml after treatment with 10 mg/kg of
body weight in the dog to 1.7 micrograms/ml after dosing with 50 mg/kg in the
rat. Because of the slow absorption of AG1343, plasma concentrations of AG1343
exceeding that required for 95% inhibition of HIV-1 replication were maintained
for up to 7 h after a single oral dose in all species evaluated. Average oral
bioavailability of AG1343 ranged from 17% in the marmoset to 47% in the dog.
Studies of distribution to tissue in the rat after oral administration of
14C-AG1343 established extensive distribution with concentrations in most tissues
exceeding that found in plasma. Of particular significance were high levels of
AG1343 equivalent in mesenteric lymph nodes (32.05 micrograms/g) and spleen
tissue (9.33 micrograms/g). The major excretory route for AG1343 was via feces,
with 100% of the dose recovered by 48 h. Results from these studies demonstrate
that AG1343 is orally bioavailable and that levels in plasma in the therapeutic
range are achievable and are maintained for prolonged periods in the animal
models tested. On the basis of these and other findings, AG1343 was developed for
further testing in human subjects.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.40.1.110 
PMCID: PMC163067
PMID: 8787890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

