

3836. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1996 Jan;40(1):110-4.

Preclinical pharmacokinetics and distribution to tissue of AG1343, an inhibitor
of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 protease.

Shetty BV(1), Kosa MB, Khalil DA, Webber S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Agouron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., San Diego,
California 92121, USA. shetty@agouron.com

AG1343, a potent inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)
protease (Ki = 2 nM), was designed by protein structure-based drug design
techniques. AG1343 has potent antiviral activity (95% effective dose = 0.04
microgram/ml) against a number of HIV-1 strains in acute and chronic models of
infection. As part of its preclinical development, the oral bioavailability of
AG1343 in rats, dogs, monkeys, and marmosets was determined and its tissue
distribution in rats was evaluated. There were no major interspecies differences 
in AG1343 pharmacokinetics. Following intravenous administration, the elimination
half-life of AG1343 ranged from 1 to 1.4 hr. The total volume of distribution (2 
to 7 liters/kg) exceeded the volume of total body water, indicating extensive
tissue distribution. Systemic clearance of AG1343 (1 to 4 liters/kg) in the
different species corresponded to hepatic blood flow, suggesting possible hepatic
involvement in the elimination of AG1343. Following oral administration, peak
levels in plasma ranged from 0.34 microgram/ml after treatment with 10 mg/kg of
body weight in the dog to 1.7 micrograms/ml after dosing with 50 mg/kg in the
rat. Because of the slow absorption of AG1343, plasma concentrations of AG1343
exceeding that required for 95% inhibition of HIV-1 replication were maintained
for up to 7 h after a single oral dose in all species evaluated. Average oral
bioavailability of AG1343 ranged from 17% in the marmoset to 47% in the dog.
Studies of distribution to tissue in the rat after oral administration of
14C-AG1343 established extensive distribution with concentrations in most tissues
exceeding that found in plasma. Of particular significance were high levels of
AG1343 equivalent in mesenteric lymph nodes (32.05 micrograms/g) and spleen
tissue (9.33 micrograms/g). The major excretory route for AG1343 was via feces,
with 100% of the dose recovered by 48 h. Results from these studies demonstrate
that AG1343 is orally bioavailable and that levels in plasma in the therapeutic
range are achievable and are maintained for prolonged periods in the animal
models tested. On the basis of these and other findings, AG1343 was developed for
further testing in human subjects.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.40.1.110 
PMCID: PMC163067
PMID: 8787890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3837. Life Sci. 1996;59(9):719-30.

Studies on the immunoglobulin-E system of the common marmoset in comparison with 
human data.

Schmidt S(1), Neubert R, Schmitt M, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center, Free University Berlin, Institute of Toxicology and
Embryopharmacology, Germany.

In the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) immunoglobulin E (IgE) serum 
levels and IgE synthesis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in vitro
were investigated in order to look for homologies to the human system. While IgE 
was not found in marmoset blood plasma with three commercial antihuman IgE-kits
with monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), two other kits using polyclonal antibodies
against human IgE revealed detectable IgE concentrations of up to 10 kU/liter in 
plasma samples of 19 out of 21 marmosets. In accord with human data, rhIL-4
showed biological functions under in vitro conditions in PBMC of the New World
monkey. Proliferation, measured by 3H-thymidine incorporation, of isolated PBMC
of marmosets could be induced by rhIL-4. FACScan analysis showed an enhanced
expression of the low affinity IgE receptor CD23 (Fc epsilon RII) on CD20+ B
lymphocytes after incubation with rhIL-4. Furthermore, PBMC from marmosets could 
be stimulated by IL-4 alone or in combination with dexamethasone as well as with 
lipopolysaccharide (E. coli) to produce IgE in culture. The results indicate that
Callithrix jacchus is using an IgE system that is rather similar to that of
humans, although not completely identical. Antihuman mAbs and rhIL-4 can be used 
to investigate IgE regulation in vitro of marmoset PBMC. These data encourage the
development of a primate animal model for studying possible modifications of the 
IgE system under pathological conditions to find new therapeutic strategies in
atopic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(96)00358-x 
PMID: 8761025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

