

3839. J Hered. 1996 Jan-Feb;87(1):74-7.

Genetic and environmental impacts on litter size and early infant survival in
three species of callitrichids.

Jaquish CE(1), Cheverud JM, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San
Antonio, TX 78228, USA.

Callitrichids are unusual among anthropoid primates in that they can deliver one 
to four offspring per litter in captivity. Factors underlying intraspecific
variation in litter size are unclear. Data from the Oak Ridge Associated
Universities (ORAU) Marmoset Research Center provided an opportunity to
investigate determinants of variation in (1) average litter size at birth and (2)
average litter size surviving to 2 weeks of age in Saguinus fuscicollis, S.
oedipus, and Callithrix jacchus. The objectives were to (1) investigate the
impact of parity, husbandry, origin (wild or captive), and subspecific
hybridization on phenotypic variance in litter size and (2) to estimate the
heritability of litter size at birth and at 14 days. Husbandry changes were the
only significant covariate and increased litter size at birth in C. jacchus only.
Heritability estimates for average litter size at birth were significant only in 
S. fuscicollis (h2 = 0.306). Heritability of average litter size at 2 weeks of
age was not significantly greater than zero. Estimates of genetic variability
were relatively high, however both traits had very high levels of residual
variance. The results suggest that litter size is a malleable trait that may
respond to environmental factors.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jhered.a022959 
PMID: 8742821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3840. J Med Primatol. 1996 Jan;25(1):57-63.

Patterns of prenatal survival in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jaquish CE(1), Tardif SD, Toal RL, Carson RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San
Antonio, TX 78228-0147, USA.

Fifty common marmoset pregnancies were monitored using ultrasound. The objective 
was to ascertain if fetal mortality was related to litter size. Prior to analysis
we determined abortion rate and litter size were not influenced by repeated
ultrasound. Mortality was unrelated to litter size and occurred fairly late in
gestation. All singletons born in this study began gestation as twins. It is
hypothesized that marmosets may be able to adjust litter size late in pregnancy
in response to proximate environmental factors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1996.tb00194.x 
PMID: 8740954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

