

3841. J Med Primatol. 1996 Jan;25(1):34-41.

Endocrine neoplasia in New World primates.

Dias JL(1), Montali RJ, Strandberg JD, Johnson LK, Wolff MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of SÃ£o
Paulo, Brazil.

Of 1,106 New World primates necropsied from the National Zoological Park
(Washington, D.C.) and the Department of Comparative Pathology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine (Baltimore, Maryland) 22 (1.9%) animals were
identified with 27 neoplasms. Of this group, nine animals (two females, seven
males) had a total of 13 endocrine neoplasms. All animals were adults, with an
age range of 2.7-25 years (average, 12.1 years). Seven were Callitrichidae and
two were Cebidae. The adrenal gland was the most affected organ, with seven
(53.8%) neoplasms, followed by the pituitary and thyroid gland with two (15.4%)
cases each, and the pancreas and parathyroid gland with one tumor (7.7%) each.
All neoplastic disorders were benign. Immunocytochemistry assays for growth
hormone, adrenocorticotropic hormone, prolactin, follicle-stimulating hormone,
luteinizing hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone, and chromogranin A were
performed on two pituitary neoplasms. Pheochromocytoma was the most frequent
neoplasm, representing 5 (38.4%) of the 13 neoplasms. The remaining were thyroid 
cystadenoma (two, 15.4%), corticotrophic cell pituitary adenoma (two, 15.4%),
adrenal ganglioneuroma (one, 7.7%), adrenal cortical adenoma (one, 7.7%),
parathyroid chief-cell adenoma (one, 7.7%), and pancreatic islet-cell adenoma
(one, 7.7%).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1996.tb00190.x 
PMID: 8740950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3842. Vis Neurosci. 1996 Jan-Feb;13(1):145-60.

Functional architecture of area 17 in normal and monocularly deprived marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Sengpiel F(1), Troilo D, Kind PC, Graham B, Blakemore C.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, University of Oxford, UK.

The organization of the primary visual cortex (VI) of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) was studied both physiologically and by means of
transneuronal labelling of geniculocortical afferents. We addressed the question 
whether monocular deprivation (MD) could stabilize segregation into ocular
dominance (OD) columns, which are not seen in normal adult marmosets but are
present in juvenile animals (Spatz, 1979, 1989). Properties of neurons in normal 
marmosets closely resembled those of other New-World and Old-World monkeys and
orderly tangential progressions of preferred orientation were observed. However, 
in contrast to species that display well-defined OD columns, neurons of layer 4
in V1 of normal adult marmosets received balanced inputs from the two eyes. Early
MD (even though followed by prolonged binocular experience into adulthood)
resulted in a reduction of cell size in laminae of the lateral geniculate nucleus
with input from the deprived eye and a dramatic overall shift in ocular dominance
towards the nondeprived eye in the cortex. However, isolated clusters of cells
dominated by the deprived eye were found in both layers 4 and 6. Injection of
lectin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) into the deprived eye revealed
elongated patches of terminal label, about 350 microns wide, in flat-mounted
sections through layer 4. Afferent segregation was sharper and more regular in
the region of V1 representing parafoveal visual space than in that representing
the fovea. Our findings support the notion that all Old-World and New-World
monkeys possess the capacity for segregation of geniculocortical afferents into
OD columns.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800007197 
PMID: 8730996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

