

3843. Brain Res Bull. 1996;40(1):21-32.

Effects of lesions of different parts of the septo-hippocampal system in primates
on learning and retention of information acquired before or after surgery.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Harder JA, Pearson C.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, United Kingdom. rmr21@cus.cam.ac.uk

Data from a large series of experiments on marmosets with lesions of the
septal/diagonal band area (DB), fornix or CA1 area of the hippocampus are
analysed in terms of retention of information learned before surgery, acquisition
of new information and retention of information acquired after surgery. It is
shown that although all three lesions impair acquisition of a specific type of
new information, lesions of CA1 result in a severe retrograde amnesia but no
forgetting of that type of information adequately acquired after surgery, whereas
lesions of the DB do not cause retrograde amnesia but do result in significant
forgetting. Monkeys with fornix transection occupied an intermediate position in 
their pattern of learning impairments; some animals showed evidence of
forgetting, whereas the great majority showed retrograde amnesia. These data may 
be relevant to an understanding of the different extent of amnesia in patients
with different pathology within the medial temporal lobe and associated
subcortical structures.

DOI: 10.1016/0361-9230(96)00028-7 
PMID: 8722749  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3844. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1996 Jan;353(2):233-40.

RPR 101821, a new potent cholesterol-lowering agent: inhibition of squalene
synthase and 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase.

Amin D(1), Rutledge RZ, Needle SJ, Hele DJ, Neuenswander K, Bush RC, Bilder GE,
Perrone MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Biology, Rh√¥ne-Poulenc Rorer, Collegeville, PA
19426-0107, USA.

RPR 101821 (trans-2-[4-(benzoxazol-2-yl)-phenylmethoxy] amino cyclohexane
hydrochloride) is a potent cholesterol-lowering agent in rodents and marmoset.
The compound inhibited rat liver microsomal squalene synthase (IC50 = 1 nM) and
7-dehydrocholesterol (7DHC) reductase (IC50 = 1 microM; Lewis et al. 1995). When 
RPR 101821 (10 mg/kg), the 7DHC reductase inhibitor BM 15.766
(4[2-[4-(4-chlorocinnamyl)piperazine-1-yl]ethyl] benzoic acid; 10 mg/kg) or the
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor lovastatin (30 mg/kg) was given orally to rats at -29
h, -21 h and -5 h, serum cholesterol was reduced by 56%, 46% or 15%,
respectively. The reduction in cholesterol with RPR 101821 was associated with an
accumulation of 7DHC in serum, suggesting an inhibition of 7DHC reductase. In the
presence of BM 15.766, RPR 101821 reduced the serum accumulation of 7DHC in a
dose-dependent manner, with complete inhibition at 30 mg/kg, p.o. In Balb-cJ
mice, RPR 101821 and lovastatin (50 mg/kg, b.i.d., p.o., for 14 days) lowered
serum cholesterol by 67% and 2%, respectively. In marmosets, RPR 101821 and
lovastatin (both at a dose of 10 mg/kg, p.o., b.i.d., for 7 days) reduced
cholesterol by 28% and 19%, respectively. In summary, RPR 101821 is an orally
effective potent cholesterol-lowering agent in rodents and a small primate
species. The suggested mechanism of hypocholesterolemic effect is the inhibition 
of squalene synthase and 7DHC reductase.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00168762 
PMID: 8717165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

