

3844. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1996 Jan;353(2):233-40.

RPR 101821, a new potent cholesterol-lowering agent: inhibition of squalene
synthase and 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase.

Amin D(1), Rutledge RZ, Needle SJ, Hele DJ, Neuenswander K, Bush RC, Bilder GE,
Perrone MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Biology, Rh√¥ne-Poulenc Rorer, Collegeville, PA
19426-0107, USA.

RPR 101821 (trans-2-[4-(benzoxazol-2-yl)-phenylmethoxy] amino cyclohexane
hydrochloride) is a potent cholesterol-lowering agent in rodents and marmoset.
The compound inhibited rat liver microsomal squalene synthase (IC50 = 1 nM) and
7-dehydrocholesterol (7DHC) reductase (IC50 = 1 microM; Lewis et al. 1995). When 
RPR 101821 (10 mg/kg), the 7DHC reductase inhibitor BM 15.766
(4[2-[4-(4-chlorocinnamyl)piperazine-1-yl]ethyl] benzoic acid; 10 mg/kg) or the
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor lovastatin (30 mg/kg) was given orally to rats at -29
h, -21 h and -5 h, serum cholesterol was reduced by 56%, 46% or 15%,
respectively. The reduction in cholesterol with RPR 101821 was associated with an
accumulation of 7DHC in serum, suggesting an inhibition of 7DHC reductase. In the
presence of BM 15.766, RPR 101821 reduced the serum accumulation of 7DHC in a
dose-dependent manner, with complete inhibition at 30 mg/kg, p.o. In Balb-cJ
mice, RPR 101821 and lovastatin (50 mg/kg, b.i.d., p.o., for 14 days) lowered
serum cholesterol by 67% and 2%, respectively. In marmosets, RPR 101821 and
lovastatin (both at a dose of 10 mg/kg, p.o., b.i.d., for 7 days) reduced
cholesterol by 28% and 19%, respectively. In summary, RPR 101821 is an orally
effective potent cholesterol-lowering agent in rodents and a small primate
species. The suggested mechanism of hypocholesterolemic effect is the inhibition 
of squalene synthase and 7DHC reductase.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00168762 
PMID: 8717165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3845. Pharm Res. 1996 Jan;13(1):97-101.

Interspecies scaling of bosentan, a new endothelin receptor antagonist and
integration of in vitro data into allometric scaling.

Lave T(1), Coassolo P, Ubeaud G, Brandt R, Schmitt C, Dupin S, Jaeck D, Chou RC.

Author information: 
(1)Hoffmann-LaRoche, Basel, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: The goal of this study was to find a rational and reliable method of
using animal data to predict the clearance of metabolised drugs in humans.
METHODS: One such approach is to use in vitro liver models (e.g. hepatocytes and 
microsomes) to determine the relative capacities of the various animal species
and humans to metabolise the test compound. These data can then be combined with 
the in vivo clearances in animals, to calculate the in vivo clearance in humans
using allometric scaling techniques. In this study, this approach was evaluated
with a new endothelin receptor antagonist, bosentan, which is eliminated mainly
through metabolism and is characterized by very large interspecies differences in
clearance. Therefore, this compound provided a stringent test of our new
extrapolation method for allometric scaling.
RESULTS: The results obtained with bosentan showed that adjusting the in vivo
clearance in the different animal species for the relative rates of metabolism in
vitro gave a far better prediction of human clearance than an empirical
correcting factor (brain weight).
CONCLUSIONS: This approach provided a more rational basis for predicting the
clearance of metabolised compounds in humans.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1016037519116 
PMID: 8668687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

