

3847. Cytogenet Cell Genet. 1996;72(4):325-30.

Analysis of constitutive heterochromatin by fluorochromes and in situ digestion
with restriction enzymes in species of the group Callithrix argentata
(Callitrichidae, Primates).

Pieczarka JC(1), Nagamachi CY, Barros RM, Mattevi MS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre, Brazil. julio@marajo.serom.ufpa.br

The karyotypes of the species belonging to the group Callithrix argentata
(Callitrichidae, Platyrrhini) are characterized by large amounts of distal
constitutive heterocharomatin (CH). The CH of the species C. argentata, C.
humeralifera and C. emiliae was analyzed by banding with the restriction enzymes 
HinfI, MboI, aluI, RsaI, DdeI, HaeIII and MspI, as well as the fluorochromes CMA3
and DAPI. The results obtained permitted us to classify the CH of these species
into three distinct types: 1) distal CH with a homogeneous response to enzymatic 
action, which was unchanged (HinfI, MboI, AluI, HaeIII), partially digested
(DdeI) or fully digested (RsaI), being CMA3+, DAPI-; 2) centromeric CH, generally
presenting a reduced band size. The varying extent of reduction, ranging from
none to total, and also the variation of fluorochrome staining indicates that
there is heterogeneity in this type of CH; 3) CH of the distal portion of the X
chromosome of C. argentata and of the Y chromosome was CMA3- and unchanged by the
enzymes, except for RsaI, which caused a reduction in size. MspI was the only
enzyme unable to induce bands. Sequential C-banding permitted us to perceive
banding variations that could not be observed simply by RE banding.

DOI: 10.1159/000134215 
PMID: 8641141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3848. Chromosoma. 1996;104(5):348-57.

Comparative karyology and evolution of the Amazonian Callithrix (Platyrrhini,
Primates).

Canavez F(1), Alves G, Fanning TG, Seuánez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Section, Instituto Nacional de Câncer (INCa), Praça da Cruz Vermelha 
23, 20230-130 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Chromosomal studies in three species of Amazonian Callithrix (2n=44) and data in 
the literature show that this group is karyomonotypic. Moreover, it is
characterized by the presence of abundant heterochromatic regions, unlike the
situation in congeneric forms of Callithrix of the Atlantic coast with 2n=46, and
by the presence of a highly repetitive, exclusive DNA component, with a basic
repeat motif of 1528bp. Karyotypic comparisons with other Callitrichids and an
outgroup species showed that Callitrichids are karyologically conserved and
explained several rearrangements that had presumably occurred during their
phyletic radiation. Analyses of karyologic data enabled the construction of two
alternative phylogenetic topologies. The lack of derived homoeologies, common to 
all members of the genus Callithrix grouped at present, and the fact that
Amazonian species were more similar to Cebuella pygmaea (2n=44) than to their
congeneric forms with 2n=46 suggested that species at present included in the
Amazonian Callithrix should be grouped with C. pygmaea.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00337224 
PMID: 8575247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

