

3848. Chromosoma. 1996;104(5):348-57.

Comparative karyology and evolution of the Amazonian Callithrix (Platyrrhini,
Primates).

Canavez F(1), Alves G, Fanning TG, Seuánez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics Section, Instituto Nacional de Câncer (INCa), Praça da Cruz Vermelha 
23, 20230-130 Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Chromosomal studies in three species of Amazonian Callithrix (2n=44) and data in 
the literature show that this group is karyomonotypic. Moreover, it is
characterized by the presence of abundant heterochromatic regions, unlike the
situation in congeneric forms of Callithrix of the Atlantic coast with 2n=46, and
by the presence of a highly repetitive, exclusive DNA component, with a basic
repeat motif of 1528bp. Karyotypic comparisons with other Callitrichids and an
outgroup species showed that Callitrichids are karyologically conserved and
explained several rearrangements that had presumably occurred during their
phyletic radiation. Analyses of karyologic data enabled the construction of two
alternative phylogenetic topologies. The lack of derived homoeologies, common to 
all members of the genus Callithrix grouped at present, and the fact that
Amazonian species were more similar to Cebuella pygmaea (2n=44) than to their
congeneric forms with 2n=46 suggested that species at present included in the
Amazonian Callithrix should be grouped with C. pygmaea.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00337224 
PMID: 8575247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3849. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1996 Jan;276(1):150-60.

ABT-431: the diacetyl prodrug of A-86929, a potent and selective dopamine D1
receptor agonist: in vitro characterization and effects in animal models of
Parkinson's disease.

Shiosaki K(1), Jenner P, Asin KE, Britton DR, Lin CW, Michaelides M, Smith L,
Bianchi B, Didomenico S, Hodges L, Hong Y, Mahan L, Mikusa J, Miller T, Nikkel A,
Stashko M, Witte D, Williams M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Products Division, Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois, 
USA.

(-)-Trans 9,10-hydroxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-3-thia-5-
azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride (A-86929) is a potent and
selective full agonist at the dopamine (DA) D1-like receptor. Judging by its
binding affinities to the D1 and D2 classes of receptors, the compound is
approximately 20-fold D1 receptor-selective, whereas relative potencies based on 
functional in vitro assays indicate that A-86929 is greater than 400-fold
D1-selective. A-86929 has moderate to weak (Ki > 1 microM) affinity at other
monoaminergic and peptidergic receptors, at ion channels and at monoamine uptake 
sites. The catechol of A-86929 was bis-acetylated to produce the prodrug,
(-)-trans 9,10-acetoxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11-b-hexahydro-3-thia-
5-azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride (ABT-431), which is more
chemically stable yet is rapidly converted to the parent compound with a
half-life of less than 1 min in plasma. Both A-86929 and ABT-431 produced
contralateral rotation in rats bearing unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, with
ED50 values of 0.24 mumol/kg s.c. and 0.54 mumol/kg s.c., respectively. A-86929
and ABT-431 improved behavioral disability scores and increased locomotor
activity in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmoset
model of Parkinson's disease in a dose-dependent manner (the minimum effective
dose was 0.10 mumol/kg s.c.). When administered three times daily for 30
consecutive days to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned
marmosets, A-86929 significantly improved disability scores throughout the
duration of the study. Current Parkinson's disease therapy includes L-dopa, which
stimulates both classes of DA receptors by virtue of its conversion to DA in
vivo, and direct-acting D2-selective agonists. Stimulation of the D2 receptor,
which is associated with all current DA agonist-based therapies, may contribute
to their dose-limiting side effects. An agent such as A-86929 (or its prodrug
ABT-431), which selectively stimulates the D1 receptor, may represent a novel
mechanism for Parkinson's disease therapy with the potential for an improved
side-effect profile and, consequently, improved patient compliance.


PMID: 8558425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

