

3849. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1996 Jan;276(1):150-60.

ABT-431: the diacetyl prodrug of A-86929, a potent and selective dopamine D1
receptor agonist: in vitro characterization and effects in animal models of
Parkinson's disease.

Shiosaki K(1), Jenner P, Asin KE, Britton DR, Lin CW, Michaelides M, Smith L,
Bianchi B, Didomenico S, Hodges L, Hong Y, Mahan L, Mikusa J, Miller T, Nikkel A,
Stashko M, Witte D, Williams M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Products Division, Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois, 
USA.

(-)-Trans 9,10-hydroxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-3-thia-5-
azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride (A-86929) is a potent and
selective full agonist at the dopamine (DA) D1-like receptor. Judging by its
binding affinities to the D1 and D2 classes of receptors, the compound is
approximately 20-fold D1 receptor-selective, whereas relative potencies based on 
functional in vitro assays indicate that A-86929 is greater than 400-fold
D1-selective. A-86929 has moderate to weak (Ki > 1 microM) affinity at other
monoaminergic and peptidergic receptors, at ion channels and at monoamine uptake 
sites. The catechol of A-86929 was bis-acetylated to produce the prodrug,
(-)-trans 9,10-acetoxy-2-propyl-4,5,5a,6,7,11-b-hexahydro-3-thia-
5-azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride (ABT-431), which is more
chemically stable yet is rapidly converted to the parent compound with a
half-life of less than 1 min in plasma. Both A-86929 and ABT-431 produced
contralateral rotation in rats bearing unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, with
ED50 values of 0.24 mumol/kg s.c. and 0.54 mumol/kg s.c., respectively. A-86929
and ABT-431 improved behavioral disability scores and increased locomotor
activity in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmoset
model of Parkinson's disease in a dose-dependent manner (the minimum effective
dose was 0.10 mumol/kg s.c.). When administered three times daily for 30
consecutive days to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned
marmosets, A-86929 significantly improved disability scores throughout the
duration of the study. Current Parkinson's disease therapy includes L-dopa, which
stimulates both classes of DA receptors by virtue of its conversion to DA in
vivo, and direct-acting D2-selective agonists. Stimulation of the D2 receptor,
which is associated with all current DA agonist-based therapies, may contribute
to their dose-limiting side effects. An agent such as A-86929 (or its prodrug
ABT-431), which selectively stimulates the D1 receptor, may represent a novel
mechanism for Parkinson's disease therapy with the potential for an improved
side-effect profile and, consequently, improved patient compliance.


PMID: 8558425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3850. Life Sci. 1996;58(4):337-48.

Thalidomide derivatives and the immune system. 6. Effects of two derivatives with
no obvious teratogenic potency on the pattern of integrins and other surface
receptors on blood cells of marmosets.

Nogueira AC(1), Neubert R, Felies A, Jacob-MÃ¼ller U, Frankus E, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center, Free University Berlin, Germany.

The two thalidomide (Thd) derivatives beta-EM12 and phthalimidophthalimide
(Phtpht), which exhibit no obvious teratogenicity, were tested for their ability 
to induce changes in the pattern of lymphocyte subpopulations, and especially
changes in integrin receptors, in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Previously, Thd
and its highly teratogenic derivative alpha-EM12 had been found to alter the
expression of adhesion molecules, such as CD2 (LFA-2) or CD11a/CD18 (LFA-1). None
of these typical effects on adhesion receptors were observed following
administration of the relatively high daily doses of 50 mg/kg body wt beta-EM12
and Phtpht. Nevertheless, there were some minor effects, such as alterations in
the receptor density on peripheral blood mononuclear cells, which were often
contrary to the effects induced by Thd. Mainly affected were: CD8 cells, B cells 
bearing the CD54 receptor and CD4 cells bearing the CD56 (NCAM) surface marker.
We observed an increase in the receptor density of CD11c (p150,95) on monocytes
with Phtpht but not with beta-EM12. The inability of the two substances with no
obvious teratogenic potential to typically modify beta 2-integrin receptors on
white blood cells at comparatively high doses is consistent with our hypothesis, 
that the teratogenicity of Thd may also be linked to alterations in the
expression of adhesion molecules.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(95)02293-7 
PMID: 8538370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

