

385. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2020 Feb;60:92-98. doi: 10.1016/j.conb.2019.10.011. Epub
2019 Dec 10.

The role of auditory feedback on vocal pattern generation in marmoset monkeys.

Hage SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, 
Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076, Tübingen, Germany; Department of Otolaryngology,
Head & Neck Surgery, Medical Center, University of Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen,
Germany. Electronic address: steffen.hage@uni-tuebingen.de.

Marmoset monkeys are known for their rich vocal repertoire. However, the
underlying call production mechanisms remain unclear. By showing that marmoset
moneys are capable of interrupting and modulating ongoing vocalizations, recent
studies in marmoset monkeys challenged the decades-old concepts of primate vocal 
pattern generation that suggested that monkey calls consist of one discrete call 
pattern. The current article will present a revised version of the brainstem
vocal pattern-generating network in marmoset monkeys that is capable of
responding to perturbing auditory stimuli with rapid modulatory changes of the
acoustic call structure during ongoing calls. These audio-vocal integration
processes might potentially happen at both the cortical and subcortical brain
level.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.conb.2019.10.011 
PMID: 31835132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Feb;172:113748. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2019.113748. Epub 2019
Dec 10.

Molecular characterization of functional UDP-glucuronosyltransferases 1A and 2B
in common marmosets.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Inoue T(3), Kawamura S(2), Murayama N(2), Nishikawa M(4), 
Ikushiro S(4), Sasaki E(3), Yamazaki H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Kagoshima 890-8580, Japan; Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd, Kainan,
Wakayama 642 0017, Japan. Electronic address: unoxx001@vet.kagoshima-u.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(3)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kawasaki-ku, Japan.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Engineering, Toyama Prefectural
University, Imizu, Toyama 939 0398, Japan.
(5)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic address:
hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) are essential drug-conjugation enzymes that
metabolize a variety of endobiotic and xenobiotic substrates. The molecular
characteristics of UGTs have been extensively investigated in humans, but remain 
to be investigated in common marmosets, a nonhuman primate species widely used in
drug metabolism studies. In this study, 11 UGT cDNAs (UGT1A1, 1A3, 1A4, 1A6, 1A7,
and 1A9; and UGT2B49, 2B50, 2B51, 2B52, and 2B53) were isolated and characterized
in marmosets. Marmoset UGT1As had high sequence identities (89-93%) with human
UGT1As, but the sequence identities of marmoset UGT2Bs were lower (82-86%).
Marmoset UGTs were found to be phylogenetically close to human UGTs. Just as
human UGT1As do, marmoset UGT1A genes shared exons 2-5 and contained a variable
exon 1 unique to each gene; in contrast, marmoset UGT2B genes contained six
unique exons. Moreover, marmoset and human UGT1A and UGT2B gene clusters were
located in corresponding regions in their respective genomes. Among the five
tissue types tested, marmoset UGT mRNAs were most abundantly expressed in liver, 
jejunum, and/or kidney, i.e., in tissues important for drug metabolism, just as
human UGTs are. Among the 11 marmoset UGT mRNAs investigated, marmoset UGT1A9,
1A4, and 1A6 mRNAs were the most abundantly expressed in liver, small intestine, 
and kidney, respectively. Marmoset liver microsomes and recombinant UGT1A
proteins catalyzed the glucuronidation of the same substrates that human UGT1As
catalyze, including estradiol, trifluoperazine, 4-methylumbelliferone, serotonin,
4-nitrophenol, and propofol. Trifluoperazine was glucuronidated by marmoset liver
microsomes, but not by any of the UGT1A isoforms examined under the present
conditions. These results collectively suggest that functional marmoset UGTs have
generally similar molecular characteristics to human UGTs.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2019.113748 
PMID: 31830470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

