

3851. Life Sci. 1996;58(4):317-24.

Cross-reactivity of antihuman monoclonal antibodies with cell surface receptors
in the common marmoset.

Neubert R(1), Foerster M, Nogueira AC, Helge H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology and Embryopharmacology, University Medical Center,
Free University Berlin, Germany.

In this report we demonstrate that a large number of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs)
against human epitopes cross-react with surface receptors on white blood cells of
Callithrix jacchus, indicating species similarities. However, a variety of other 
mAbs do not exhibit any cross-reactivity, thus also providing evidence for
distinct differences in the structure of these receptors among nonhuman primates.
Such differences have to be known and taken into consideration when attempting
extrapolations between species. The results presented provide the prerequisite
for performing extensive studies on immunological structures and functions in
marmosets under normal and pathological conditions. We conclude that the immune
system of Callithrix jacchus is a convenient model for studies on immunotoxicity 
with relevance for man, and for this purpose it is clearly superior to that of
any rodent species.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(95)02291-0 
PMID: 8538368  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3852. Life Sci. 1996;58(4):295-316.

Down-regulation of adhesion receptors on cells of primate embryos as a probable
mechanism of the teratogenic action of thalidomide.

Neubert R(1), Hinz N, Thiel R, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology and Embryopharmacology, University Medical Center,
Free University Berlin, Germany.

In spite of ongoing speculation, there has been no evidence that adhesion
receptors are expressed on the cells of mammalian embryos. In this report, we
provide the first proof that a variety of such receptor (beta 1-, beta 2-, and
beta 3-integrins and selectin) are indeed expressed on cells of essentially all
primordia of marmoset embryos at early organogenesis (developmental stages 11 to 
13, or even earlier). Treatment with low doses (20 or as little as 1 mg/kg body
weight) of a highly teratogenic derivative (EM12) of thalidomide, the most
notorious human teratogen, triggers a dramatic and statistically highly
significant down-regulation of several surface adhesion receptors (e.g.
CD11a/CD18, CD49d/CD29, CD61, etc.) on early limb bud cells and on cells of some 
other primordia during early organogenesis of embryos of a primate (marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus). Some of these receptors almost disappear, or they are
expressed at a lower epitope density in the exposed embryos. These
down-regulations of surface adhesion receptors may be expected to alter
cell-cell- and cell-extracellular matrix interactions, and they are suggested to 
be a long-sought primary mechanism of the teratogenic action of thalidomide-type 
substances.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(95)02290-2 
PMID: 8538367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

