

3852. Life Sci. 1996;58(4):295-316.

Down-regulation of adhesion receptors on cells of primate embryos as a probable
mechanism of the teratogenic action of thalidomide.

Neubert R(1), Hinz N, Thiel R, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology and Embryopharmacology, University Medical Center,
Free University Berlin, Germany.

In spite of ongoing speculation, there has been no evidence that adhesion
receptors are expressed on the cells of mammalian embryos. In this report, we
provide the first proof that a variety of such receptor (beta 1-, beta 2-, and
beta 3-integrins and selectin) are indeed expressed on cells of essentially all
primordia of marmoset embryos at early organogenesis (developmental stages 11 to 
13, or even earlier). Treatment with low doses (20 or as little as 1 mg/kg body
weight) of a highly teratogenic derivative (EM12) of thalidomide, the most
notorious human teratogen, triggers a dramatic and statistically highly
significant down-regulation of several surface adhesion receptors (e.g.
CD11a/CD18, CD49d/CD29, CD61, etc.) on early limb bud cells and on cells of some 
other primordia during early organogenesis of embryos of a primate (marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus). Some of these receptors almost disappear, or they are
expressed at a lower epitope density in the exposed embryos. These
down-regulations of surface adhesion receptors may be expected to alter
cell-cell- and cell-extracellular matrix interactions, and they are suggested to 
be a long-sought primary mechanism of the teratogenic action of thalidomide-type 
substances.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(95)02290-2 
PMID: 8538367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3853. J Biol Chem. 1995 Dec 15;270(50):30234.

Eosinophil cationic protein and eosinophil-derived neurotoxin. Evolution of novel
function in a primate ribonuclease gene family.

Rosenberg HF, Dyer KD.

Erratum for
    J Biol Chem. 1995 Sep 15;270(37):21539-44.


PMID: 8530435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

