

3857. J Neurosci. 1995 Dec;15(12):7892-904.

Visual responses in the lateral geniculate nucleus of dichromatic and
trichromatic marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Yeh T(1), Lee BB, Kremers J, Cowing JA, Hunt DM, Martin PR, Troy JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry,
GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

New-world primates such as the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) show polymorphism
for the middle- to long-wavelength sensitive cone pigments. Each X-chromosome
carries a gene for only one of three possible pigments. All males are thus
dichromats, but some females will be trichromats. We have investigated the
responses of cells of the parvocellular (PC) and magnocellular (MC) systems
within animals from a single marmoset family. The middle- to long-wavelength
pigment of dichromats was identified physiologically. Trichromats could readily
be distinguished from dichromats by the presence of a high proportion of
red-green opponent PC-cells. The physiological classification of phenotypes was
confirmed with genetic analysis. The pattern of inheritance was consistent with
current genetic models. In trichromatic females, the properties of cells
resembled in detail those of cells from the PC- and MC-pathways of the macaque.
In dichromats, cell responses resembled those of trichromats (except for the lack
of opponency in PC-cells); PC-cells showed sustained and MC-cells transient
responses, with a lower contrast gain for the former type. One difference was
that a proportion of PC-cells in dichromats showed strong rod input even at high 
levels of retinal illuminance. Thus, in trichromatic marmosets the presence of
two middle- to long-wave pigments appears to permit the elaboration of all the
physiological properties associated with trichromacy.


PMCID: PMC6577942
PMID: 8613728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3858. J Virol. 1995 Dec;69(12):8011-9.
