

3860. Eur J Pharmacol. 1995 Nov 14;286(2):185-91.

Peptoid CCK receptor antagonists: pharmacological evaluation of CCKA, CCKB and
mixed CCKA/B receptor antagonists.

Singh L(1), Field MJ, Hill DR, Horwell DC, McKnight AT, Roberts E, Tang KW,
Woodruff GN.

Author information: 
(1)Parke-Davis Neuroscience Research Centre, Addenbrookes Hospital Site,
Cambridge, UK.

Several novel cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor ligands with differing degrees of
receptor selectivity were characterised in both in vitro and in vivo models. In
radioligand binding assays, the dipeptoid PD 135666 ((benzenebutanoic acid,
beta-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-1-oxo-2-
[[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]amino]propyl] amino],-[R-(+*,S*)]) 
selectively inhibited [125I]Bolton Hunter CCK-8 binding to CCKB receptors in
mouse cerebral cortex (CCKB IC50 = 0.1 nM) but was weaker as an inhibitor of CCKA
receptor binding in the rat pancreas (IC50 = 26 nM). In contrast, its enantiomer 
PD 140548 ((benzenebutanoic acid,
beta-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-1-oxo-2-[[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7]
dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]amino]propyl] amino],-[S-(R*,S*)) displayed the reverse
selectivity (CCKA IC50 = 2.8 nM, CCKB IC50 = 260 nM). PD 142898 ([benzenebutanic 
acid, beta-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-2-[[[(2-
methylcyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]amino]-1-oxopropyl]amino]-,[1S-[1 alpha[S*(R*)],2
beta ]]) possessed nanomolar affinity for both receptor subtypes (CCKB IC50 = 4.2
nM, CCKA IC50 = 3.8 nM) whereas its corresponding enantiomer PD 142896
([benzenebutanic acid, beta-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-2-[[[(2-
methylcyclohexyl)oxy]carbonyl]amino]-1-oxopropyl]amino]-, [1R-[1 alpha[S*(R*)],2 
beta]]) displayed 147-fold selectivity for the CCKA receptor (CCKA IC50 = 7.9 nM,
CCKB IC50 = 1160 nM). The pyrazolidinone PD 141479
(trans-5-(2-chlorophenyl)-3-oxo-4-phenyl-N-[4-
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1-pyrazolidinecarboxamide) was found to interact
selectively with the CCKB receptor (CCKB IC50 = 36 nM, CCKA IC50 = 1100 nM). PD
140548, PD 142896, PD 135666 and PD 142898 antagonised the CCKA receptor-mediated
contraction of guinea pig gall bladder with respective pA2 values of 7.2, 7.4,
6.6 and 8.5. In the rat elevated X-maze, PD 135666 and PD 141479, together with
the mixed CCKA/B receptor antagonist PD 142898 produced anxiolytic effects with
respective minimum effective doses (MEDs) of 0.01, 0.001 and 0.01 mg/kg s.c.
Furthermore, the selective CCKB receptor antagonist CI-988 (0.01-1 mg/kg) and PD 
142898 (0.001-0.1 mg/kg), dose dependently induced behavioural changes suggestive
of anxiolysis in the marmoset human threat test with respective MED values of <
0.01 and < 0.001 mg/kg s.c. In contrast, compounds with the CCKA selective
profile were either inactive in the two behavioural models or showed activity
only at doses of 1 mg/kg and above. These data suggest that the anxiolytic
effects of CCK receptor antagonists parallel their affinity for the CCKB rather
than the CCKA receptor.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(95)00445-q 
PMID: 8605955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3861. J Comp Neurol. 1995 Nov 13;362(2):233-55.

Morphology and connections of neurons in area 17 projecting to the extrastriate
areas MT and 19DM and to the superior colliculus in the monkey Callithrix
jacchus.

vogt Weisenhorn DM(1), Illing RB, Spatz WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

Neurons of area 17, the primary visual cortex, project to various anatomically
and physiologically different extrastriate areas and subcortical regions. In the 
present investigation, we addressed the question of whether the efferent neurons 
in area 17 can contribute to functional diversity between these regions. We
approached this question by analyzing the dendritic morphology of neurons in area
17 projecting to area MT, area 19DM, and the superior colliculus in the new world
simian primate Callithrix jacchus, because dendritic morphology is an important
factor in determining physiological properties of nerve cells. Retrograde
transport of fluorochromes injected into the target regions, and intracellular
injections of Lucifer yellow in the prelabelled neurons, revealed the following. 
1) Morphologically identical large pyramidal cells in layer VI of area 17 project
to all three targets. Some of them possess axon collaterals to two or all three
targets, suggesting that they provide common information to all three areas. 2)
Pyramidal cells in layer IIIc projecting to area MT form a morphologically
homogeneous population. 3) Three small to medium-sized pyramidal cell types in
layers IIIa-c, spiny stellate cells in layer IIIc, and another large pyramidal
cell type in layer VI project to area 19DM. 4) Pyramidal cells in the lower
two-thirds of layer V in area 17 project to the superior colliculus. In
conclusion, we have shown that in Callithrix one efferent pathway may originate
from several cell types. However, with the exception of the large cells in layer 
VI, efferent cells projecting to area MT, area 19DM, and the superior colliculus 
were morphologically distinct. This suggests that functional differences between 
brain regions could arise in part from morphological heterogeneity between and
within the efferent cell populations.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903620207 
PMID: 8576436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

