

3861. J Comp Neurol. 1995 Nov 13;362(2):233-55.

Morphology and connections of neurons in area 17 projecting to the extrastriate
areas MT and 19DM and to the superior colliculus in the monkey Callithrix
jacchus.

vogt Weisenhorn DM(1), Illing RB, Spatz WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

Neurons of area 17, the primary visual cortex, project to various anatomically
and physiologically different extrastriate areas and subcortical regions. In the 
present investigation, we addressed the question of whether the efferent neurons 
in area 17 can contribute to functional diversity between these regions. We
approached this question by analyzing the dendritic morphology of neurons in area
17 projecting to area MT, area 19DM, and the superior colliculus in the new world
simian primate Callithrix jacchus, because dendritic morphology is an important
factor in determining physiological properties of nerve cells. Retrograde
transport of fluorochromes injected into the target regions, and intracellular
injections of Lucifer yellow in the prelabelled neurons, revealed the following. 
1) Morphologically identical large pyramidal cells in layer VI of area 17 project
to all three targets. Some of them possess axon collaterals to two or all three
targets, suggesting that they provide common information to all three areas. 2)
Pyramidal cells in layer IIIc projecting to area MT form a morphologically
homogeneous population. 3) Three small to medium-sized pyramidal cell types in
layers IIIa-c, spiny stellate cells in layer IIIc, and another large pyramidal
cell type in layer VI project to area 19DM. 4) Pyramidal cells in the lower
two-thirds of layer V in area 17 project to the superior colliculus. In
conclusion, we have shown that in Callithrix one efferent pathway may originate
from several cell types. However, with the exception of the large cells in layer 
VI, efferent cells projecting to area MT, area 19DM, and the superior colliculus 
were morphologically distinct. This suggests that functional differences between 
brain regions could arise in part from morphological heterogeneity between and
within the efferent cell populations.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903620207 
PMID: 8576436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3862. Regul Pept. 1995 Nov 10;59(3):303-11.

Binding of valsartan to mammalian angiotensin AT1 receptors.

de Gasparo M(1), Whitebread S.

Author information: 
(1)Ciba-Geigy Ltd., Research Department, Pharmaceuticals Division, Basle,
Switzerland.

The binding characteristics of the angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist valsartan 
were investigated in different animal species and tissues. Using
[125I](Sar1,Ile8) angiotensin II as radioligand, affinity constants were
determined in liver and adrenal rat and marmoset, human adrenal and in rat aortic
smooth muscle cells. In all tissues tested, valsartan had a greater affinity for 
the AT1 receptor than losartan (on average 5-fold). The affinities of both
antagonists were up to 30 times weaker in the dog tissues [3H]Valsartan bound
with high affinity (Kd 1.44 nmol/l) to the rat aortic smooth muscle cell AT1
receptor. Binding was saturable and reversible. Non-specific binding was low
(10%). Reports that [3H]losartan binds to a non-angiotensin II binding site in
rat liver and in other tissues could be confirmed. [3H]Valsartan on the other
hand bound only to the AT1 receptor. Using a competition binding assay with
[3H]losartan on rat liver membranes it could be shown that valsartan can bind to 
the 'losartan binding site', but at a 10,000-fold less affinity than for the AT1 
receptor. Valsartan is therefore a highly specific and selective antagonist of
the AT1 receptor. Due to its high affinity and low non-specific binding it is a
suitable radioactive antagonist for the study of the distribution and function of
the angiotensin AT1 receptor.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-0115(95)00085-p 
PMID: 8577935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

