

3866. Am J Pathol. 1995 Nov;147(5):1441-9.

Pathology and immunohistochemistry of callitrichid hepatitis, an emerging disease
of captive New World primates caused by lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus.

Montali RJ(1), Connolly BM, Armstrong DL, Scanga CA, Holmes KV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC, USA.

Callitrichid hepatitis is an arenavirus infection that recently emerged as a
highly fatal disease of New World primates in the Callitrichidae family. As we
previously reported, these primates develop hepatitis after contact with mice
that are infected with variants of LCMV (LVMCCH), recently determined to have 86%
identity with GC-P gene of the Armstrong and Western strains of LCMV. Here, we
describe the histopathological lesions and tissue localization of viral antigens 
in confirmed cases of callitrichid hepatitis from recent outbreaks in two U.S.
zoos. The liver in marmosets and tamarins with fatal infections consistently
showed degeneration, necrosis, and inflammation, with variable involvement of the
spleen, lymph nodes, adrenal glands, intestine, pancreas, and central nervous
system. Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus antigens were identified
immunohistochemically in necrotic foci in these organs as well as in
nondegenerating areas in lungs, kidney, urinary bladder, brain, and testes. The
multi-organ tropism and histological pattern of LCMV infection in marmosets and
tamarins are similar to those reported for the highly virulent arenavirus that
causes Lassa fever in humans. Comparative studies of callitrichid hepatitis and
Lassa fever would therefore be mutually beneficial for human and nonhuman primate
medicine.


PMCID: PMC1869525
PMID: 7485406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3867. J Vet Med Sci. 1995 Oct;57(5):931-4.

Hantaan virus persistently infects marmoset B-lymphoblastoid cell line.

Ohsawa K(1), Watanabe Y, Sato H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Center for Biomedical Research, Nagasaki University School
of Medicine, Japan.

To investigate lymphoid cell Hantavirus (HV) interaction, we examined the
replication of the HV strains, Hantaan 76-118 (HTN), SR-11, and B-1 with the
B95a, LYM-1, CGM1, JM, Jurkat, MOLT-4, AT(L)5KY, BW5147, L1210, and Vero/E6
cells. HV-growth was determined by immunofluorescence and focus-forming assays.
LYM-1 and Vero/E6 supported the growth of all HV strains, and B95a only HTN,
while remaining cells did not sustain these strains. This is the first report to 
indicate the HV-replication in lymphoid cell lines. B95a and LYM-1 cells may be
useful for revealing the mechanism of HV-infection in animals.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.57.931 
PMID: 8593305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

