

3867. J Vet Med Sci. 1995 Oct;57(5):931-4.

Hantaan virus persistently infects marmoset B-lymphoblastoid cell line.

Ohsawa K(1), Watanabe Y, Sato H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Center for Biomedical Research, Nagasaki University School
of Medicine, Japan.

To investigate lymphoid cell Hantavirus (HV) interaction, we examined the
replication of the HV strains, Hantaan 76-118 (HTN), SR-11, and B-1 with the
B95a, LYM-1, CGM1, JM, Jurkat, MOLT-4, AT(L)5KY, BW5147, L1210, and Vero/E6
cells. HV-growth was determined by immunofluorescence and focus-forming assays.
LYM-1 and Vero/E6 supported the growth of all HV strains, and B95a only HTN,
while remaining cells did not sustain these strains. This is the first report to 
indicate the HV-replication in lymphoid cell lines. B95a and LYM-1 cells may be
useful for revealing the mechanism of HV-infection in animals.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.57.931 
PMID: 8593305  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3868. J Chem Neuroanat. 1995 Oct;9(3):155-64.

Effects of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions on neuropeptide immunoreactivity 
in the basal ganglia of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, a quantitative
immunohistochemical analysis.

Roeling TA(1), Docter GJ, Voorn P, Melchers BP, Wolters EC, Groenewegen HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Vrije Universiteit, Faculty of Medicine,
Graduate School Neurosciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Previous immunocytochemical studies in rats have indicated that striatal dopamine
depletion leads to an increase in enkephalin-immunoreactivity and a decrease in
substance P-immunoreactivity in the striatum. Similar studies in primates have
lead to contradictory results. In the present study changes in tyrosine
hydroxylase-, met-enkephalin- and substance P-immunoreactivity were determined in
the basal ganglia of 6 common marmosets Callithrix jacchus following dopamine
depletion by unilateral intracerebral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) injections using
three different survival times. The non-lesioned side served as an
intra-individual control. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was strongly
reduced in the entire ipsilateral striatum. Enkephalin-immunoreactivity was
increased throughout the striatum. Substance P-immunoreactivity was significantly
increased in only one case in the caudate nucleus and in two cases in the
putamen, while in other cases either a non-significant increase or decrease was
found. Therefore, the results of the present study indicate that in marmosets
dopamine has a inhibiting effect on the levels of striatal enkephalin, while its 
effect on substance P (SP) appears to be absent.

DOI: 10.1016/0891-0618(95)00072-0 
PMID: 8588831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

