

3872. Am J Physiol. 1995 Oct;269(4 Pt 2):H1221-8.

Captopril-induced hypotension is inhibited by the bradykinin blocker HOE-140 in
Na(+)-depleted marmosets.

Panzenbeck MJ(1), Loughnan CL, Madwed JB, Winquist RJ, Fogal SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunological Diseases, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals,
Ridgefield, Connecticut 06877, USA.

Inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibits formation of
angiotensin II and, by inhibition of kinin metabolism, may also increase vascular
bradykinin. The present experiments were done in sodium-depleted, conscious,
unrestrained marmosets (n = 5-11) to examine the contribution of bradykinin to
ACE inhibitor-induced hypotension. Aortic blood pressure and heart rate (HR) were
monitored via telemetry. After sodium depletion (low-sodium diet and furosemide),
captopril (1 mg/kg po) caused a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in mean arterial 
blood pressure (MABP) (-34 +/- 3 mmHg, maximally, from 79 +/- 2 mmHg) but no
change in HR compared with vehicle treatment. The bradykinin receptor antagonist 
HOE-140 (1 mg/kg sc) significantly inhibited the hypotensive response to
captopril and caused marked tachycardia (+133 +/- 14 beats/min from 214 +/- 8
beats/min). HOE-140 (1 mg/kg sc) followed by vehicle administration had no effect
on MABP but increased HR similarly. The hypotensive response to captopril was
inhibited by HOE-140 regardless of the order of administration or the route of
captopril administration (by mouth vs. subcutaneously). The hypotensive response 
to a renin inhibitor, A-72517 (3 mg/kg sc), was not inhibited by prior HOE-140
administration despite a similar HOE-140-induced tachycardia. These data suggest 
that the hypotensive effect of captopril in sodium-depleted, conscious marmosets 
is dependent on functional bradykinin B2 receptors. Also, blockade of B2
receptors uncovers marked tachycardia in this model, suggesting a tonic effect of
bradykinin on control of HR in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.1995.269.4.H1221 
PMID: 7485552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3873. J Biol Chem. 1995 Sep 15;270(37):21539-44.

Eosinophil cationic protein and eosinophil-derived neurotoxin. Evolution of novel
function in a primate ribonuclease gene family.

Rosenberg HF(1), Dyer KD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Host Defenses, NIAID, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

Erratum in
    J Biol Chem. 1995 Dec 15;270(50):30234.

Human eosinophil-derived neurotoxin (EDN) and eosinophil cationic protein (ECP)
are members of a unique subfamily of rapidly evolving primate ribonuclease genes 
that emerged via a gene duplication event occurring after the divergence of Old
World from New World monkeys (Rosenberg, H. F., Dyer, K. D., Tiffany, H. L., and 
Gonzalez, M. (1995) Nature Genet. 10, 219-223). In this work, we studied the
activity of the protein encoded by the EDN/ECP homolog of the New World monkey,
Saguinus oedipus (marmoset), a representative of the "ancestral" single
sequences. Although the nucleotide sequence of the single marmoset gene (mEDN)
was equally homologous (82%) to both human genes, the encoded amino acid
sequence, calculated isoelectric point, and immunoreactivity all suggested a
closer relationship with EDN. Furthermore, mEDN (at 0.3-1.0 microM
concentrations) had no measurable anti-staphylococcal activity, suggesting
functional as well as structural similarity to EDN. However, with yeast tRNA as
substrate, mEDN had significantly less ribonuclease activity than EDN; Michaelis 
constants were nearly identical (Km (mEDN) = 0.67 microM; Km (EDN) = 0.70
microM), while turnover numbers differed by a factor of 100 (kcat (mEDN) = 0.91
s-1; kcat (EDN) = 0.64 x 10(-2) s-1). Thus, evolutionary constraints appear to
have promoted two novel functions: increased cationicity/toxicity (ECP) and
enhanced ribonuclease activity (EDN). The latter result is particularly
intriguing, as it suggests a crucial role for ribonuclease activity in the (as
yet to be determined) physiologic function of EDN.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.270.37.21539 
PMID: 7665566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

