

3876. Hum Reprod. 1995 Sep;10(9):2334-8.

Follicular development in cryopreserved marmoset ovarian tissue after
transplantation.

Candy CJ(1), Wood MJ, Whittingham DG.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Experimental Embryology and Teratology Unit, St
George's Hospital Medical School, London, UK.

Pieces of marmoset ovary were frozen by slow cooling in 1.5 M dimethylsulphoxide.
The follicles in fresh and frozen tissue were counted and examined for
morphological appearance in stained serial sections. The proportion of normal
follicles was similar in fresh tissue and frozen tissue examined immediately
after thawing. Follicles at all stages of folliculogenesis up to the small antral
stage survived freezing and thawing. Fresh and frozen tissue was transplanted
underneath the kidney capsules of ovariectomized immunodeficient mice. The
establishment of grafts was similar, and oestrogenic activity (cornification of
the vaginal epithelium) was observed in the recipients 20 and 16 days after
transplantation of fresh and frozen grafts respectively. The total number of
follicles and the proportion of normal follicles were similar in fresh and frozen
grafts. Grafts of frozen tissue recovered between 7 and 15 days after transfer
contained follicles up to the small antral stage of development. Grafts recovered
between 21 and 32 days contained follicles at all stages of folliculogenesis,
including large antral follicles (1-2 mm diameter). Our results suggest that
freezing and thawing do not substantially damage marmoset ovarian tissue, and the
cryopreserved tissue retains its ability to support the development of large
antral follicles.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136295 
PMID: 8530662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3877. Science. 1995 Sep 1;269(5228):1265-7.

Adaptive evolution of color vision genes in higher primates.

Shyue SK(1), Hewett-Emmett D, Sperling HG, Hunt DM, Bowmaker JK, Mollon JD, Li
WH.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas, Houston
77225, USA.

The intron 4 sequences of the three polymorphic alleles at the X-linked color
photo-pigment locus in the squirrel monkey and the marmoset reveal that the
alleles in each species are exceptionally divergent. The data further suggest
either that each triallelic system has arisen independently in these two New
World monkey lineages, or that in each species at least seven deletions and
insertions (14 in the two species) in intron 4 have been transferred and
homogenized among the alleles by gene conversion or recombination. In either
case, the alleles in each species apparently have persisted more than 5 million
years and probably have been maintained by overdominant selection.

DOI: 10.1126/science.7652574 
PMID: 7652574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

