

3878. J Virol. 1995 Sep;69(9):5576-81.

Hepatitis A viruses with deletions in the 2A gene are infectious in cultured
cells and marmosets.

Harmon SA(1), Emerson SU, Huang YK, Summers DF, Ehrenfeld E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of California,
Irvine 92717, USA.

The 2A gene of hepatitis A virus (HAV) bears no obvious similarity to the
corresponding genes of other picornaviruses and has no known function. In a
preliminary effort to gain information about the HAV 2A gene product, we
constructed several HAV cDNAs containing deletions of 30 or 45 nucleotides in the
predicted central portion of the 2A gene. These deletions did not affect the
sites of protein processing, although the rates or efficiencies of polyprotein
cleavage at the surrounding cleavage junctions appeared slightly reduced.
Transfection of FRhK-4 cells with RNA transcripts of the deleted HAV cDNAs
generated small foci of infected cells and produced infectious virus that
retained the deletion mutations. In contrast, a single amino acid insertion in
the 2B coding region was lethal to virus replication despite normal protein
processing. Another deletion, which included the predicted 2A/2B junction and
extended into the 2B coding sequence, did not support polyprotein processing or
generate viable virus. One of the viable internal 2A deletions was introduced
into a wild-type HAV cDNA background, and transcripts were tested for infectivity
by inoculation directly into the livers of two marmosets. Both animals
seroconverted, displayed elevated serum liver enzymes, and excreted infectious
virus. Thus, deletion of 10 or 15 amino acid residues from the predicted central 
portion of the 2A protein was tolerated with only relatively minor effects on the
growth of HAV in cultured cells and in marmoset liver.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.69.9.5576-5581.1995 
PMCID: PMC189412
PMID: 7637003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3879. Cell Tissue Res. 1995 Sep;281(3):493-9.

Species-independent expression of nitric oxide synthase in the sarcolemma region 
of visceral and somatic striated muscle fibers.

Grozdanovic Z(1), Nakos G, Dahrmann G, Mayer B, Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The expression and distribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was studied by use
of the newly designed specific histochemical NADPH diaphorase staining method and
the indirect immunofluorescence technique employing an antiserum to brain NOS in 
visceral and somatic striated muscles of several mammalian species. Histochemical
activity and immunoreactivity were located in the sarcolemma region of type I and
II fibers of all muscles investigated. Visceral muscles were more strongly
stained than somatic muscles. Furthermore, type II fibers, identified by staining
of myosin adenosine triphosphatase activity after pre-incubation at alkaline pH, 
were more intensely labeled than type I fibers. In addition, NOS activity was
detected in the area of the sarcolemma of intrafusal fibers. No obvious
differences between species were observed. It was concluded that NOS of striated 
muscles probably makes up the richest and most important nitric oxide source in
mammals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00417866 
PMID: 7553769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

