

3881. J Comp Neurol. 1995 Aug 21;359(2):272-99.

Visual areas in the dorsal and medial extrastriate cortices of the marmoset.

Rosa MG(1), Schmid LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Queensland, Brisbane,
Australia.

To define the number and limits of the visual areas in the primate extrastriate
cortex, the visuotopy of the dorsal convexity and medial wall was studied by
electrophysiological recordings in five marmosets anaesthetised with sufentanil
and nitrous oxide and paralysed with pancuronium bromide. We identified five
visuotopic representations in and around the densely myelinated zone between
visual area 2 (V2) and the posterior parietal cortex. Most of the densely
myelinated zone is formed by the homologue of the owl monkey's dorsomedial area
(DM); thus, we also termed this area DM in the marmoset. Within DM, the lower
quadrant representation is continuous, with central vision represented laterally,
peripheral vision medially, the horizontal meridian caudally, and the vertical
meridian rostrally. In contrast, the upper quadrant representation is split, with
the central portion represented at the lateral edge of DM on the dorsal surface, 
and the periphery along the midline. Two other visual field representations,
corresponding to the dorsointermediate area (DI) and to a new subdivision termed 
the dorsoanterior area (DA), are also densely myelinated but can be distinguished
from DM based on the separation of the bands of Baillarger and visual topography.
In addition, a homologue of the medial visual area (M) was identified. Our
results reveal a highly complex visuotopy in primate cortex, with local
discontinuities in representation and borders between areas that are often not
coincident with either the horizontal or the vertical meridian. The topography of
the dorsal extrastriate cortex in the marmoset strongly suggests that both visual
area 3 (V3) and the parietooccipital area (PO) of other primates are portions of 
a single visuotopic representation, DM, and calls into question the existence of 
visual areas with partial or quadrantic representations of the visual field.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903590207 
PMID: 7499529  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3882. Inflamm Res. 1995 Aug;44 Suppl 2:S191-2.

Evaluation of lymphocyte subsets in tamarins and marmosets.

Petersen MG(1), Beegle B, Clapp NK, Fuhr JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tennessee 
Medical Center at Knoxville 37920, USA.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01778326 
PMID: 8548392  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

