

3885. Mutat Res. 1995 Aug;347(3-4):157-62.

Baseline and mitomycin C (MMC)-induced sister-chromatid exchanges in XX and XY
cells of Callithrix jacchus chimeric twins.

Bigatti MP(1), Lambert L, Crovella S, Ardito G.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Animale-Laboratori di Antropologia, Universit√† di
Torino, Italy.

Lymphocytes from chimeric individuals of the species Callithrix jacchus
(Primates) were examined to evaluate differences in the frequency of sister
chromatid exchanges (SCE) between XX and XY cells. The aim was to discover
whether SCE differ according to genetic sex and whether XX and XY cells show a
different sensitivity to SCE inducing agents. This experimental model has enabled
us to eliminate the possible differences caused by environmental factors. The
results obtained do not reveal significant differences between male and female
cells, in either the baseline SCE frequency or that induced by mitomycin C at
concentrations of 0.01 and 0.03 microgram/ml. No significant differences were
observed in the distribution of high SCE frequency cells (HFC), even if it is
possible to observe a higher level of exchanges in XX cells in each trial. With
regard to the phenotypic sex, there appears to be a trend towards slightly higher
SCE rates in females, even if results are not statistically significant.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-7992(95)00035-6 
PMID: 7565907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3886. Biol Reprod. 1995 Aug;53(2):380-9.

Luteinizing hormone/chorionic gonadotropin bioactivity in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) is due to a chorionic gonadotropin molecule with a structure
intermediate between human chorionic gonadotropin and human luteinizing hormone.

Simula AP(1), Amato F, Faast R, Lopata A, Berka J, Norman RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, University of Adelaide, Queen
Elizabeth Hospital, Australia.

Chorionic gonadotropin (CG), a pregnancy-specific heterodimeric hormone found in 
primates, is responsible for CL rescue with pregnancy maintenance. Of the
primates, the human and baboon gene sequences are the only structures so far
determined. In order to study the structure and function of CG in other primates,
we have isolated and sequenced the coding regions for the two subunits of
marmoset CG (mCG) by the reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction method. 
Study of multiple clones confirmed a high degree of homology with the human
sequences (88% and 80% for the alpha and beta nucleotide sequences,
respectively). Marmoset CG alpha has an extra four amino acids compared to hCG
alpha, whereas the mCG beta sequence has a 3-bp deletion that maintains the
reading frame and C-terminal amino acid sequence. Most of the differences between
hCG beta and mCG beta peptides occur in the C-terminal region, which includes the
loss of two of the O-linked glycosylation consensus sequences and the presence of
an N-linked glycosylation consensus sequence. When mCG alpha and beta were
co-expressed in CHO cells, assembly of biologically active hormone was confirmed 
by induced steroid secretion by MA10 cells. Partially purified mCG beta was used 
to raise anti-mCG antibodies. To date, an antibody has been obtained that is
capable of detecting recombinant mCG beta, recombinant mCG dimer, and mCG dimer
secreted by cultured marmoset trophoblast. Marmoset CG alpha and beta were also
detectable at the transcriptional level in cultured trophoblast by in situ
hybridization. This suggests that the LH/CG bioactivity reported from marmoset
placentae and embryos is due to a molecule with structural features common to hLH
(glycosylation pattern) and hCG (CG beta C-terminal structure).

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod53.2.380 
PMID: 7492691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

