

3887. Eur J Pharmacol. 1995 Jul 25;281(1):R1-R2.

Modulation of glutamate release by a kappa-opioid receptor agonist in rodent and 
primate striatum.

Hill MP(1), Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, School of Biological Sciences, Manchester
University, UK.

The influence of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist, enadoline, on endogenous
glutamate release was investigated in rat and marmoset striatal synaptosomes.
Enadoline decreased 4-aminopyridine (2 mM)-stimulated glutamate release (rat:
IC50 approximately 8.7 microM, marmoset: IC50 approximately 2.9 microM). The
effect of enadoline was reversed by nor-binaltorphimine (5 microM). These data
indicate that, in the striatum of the rat and marmoset, kappa-opioid receptor
agonists can modulate glutamate release. These findings may have implications for
the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(95)00385-x 
PMID: 8566106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3888. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1995 Jul 17;212(2):466-72.

Molecular genetic analysis of the duplication of human inducible nitric oxide
synthase (NOS2) sequences.

Xu W(1), Charles IG, Liu L, Koni PA, Moncada S, Emson P.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Molecular Neuroscience Group, Department of Neurobiology, Babraham
Institute, Cambridge, UK.

In previous studies, we found multiple copies of inducible nitric oxide synthase 
gene (NOS2)-like sequences in the human genome and mapped them to the pericentric
region of chromosome 17. Here, we describe the cloning and sequencing of exon22
regions from three of these NOS2-like sequences. We have also mapped another
NOS2-like sequence to human chromosome 14. Since there are multiple NOS2-like
sequences present in the human genome, we have also carried out Zoo Blot
hybridisation analysis using a NOS2 cDNA probe. Our data suggest that duplication
of NOS2-like sequences occurred very recently in primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1995.1993 
PMID: 7542877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

