

3888. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1995 Jul 17;212(2):466-72.

Molecular genetic analysis of the duplication of human inducible nitric oxide
synthase (NOS2) sequences.

Xu W(1), Charles IG, Liu L, Koni PA, Moncada S, Emson P.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Molecular Neuroscience Group, Department of Neurobiology, Babraham
Institute, Cambridge, UK.

In previous studies, we found multiple copies of inducible nitric oxide synthase 
gene (NOS2)-like sequences in the human genome and mapped them to the pericentric
region of chromosome 17. Here, we describe the cloning and sequencing of exon22
regions from three of these NOS2-like sequences. We have also mapped another
NOS2-like sequence to human chromosome 14. Since there are multiple NOS2-like
sequences present in the human genome, we have also carried out Zoo Blot
hybridisation analysis using a NOS2 cDNA probe. Our data suggest that duplication
of NOS2-like sequences occurred very recently in primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1995.1993 
PMID: 7542877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3889. Acta Histochem. 1995 Jul;97(3):321-31.

Demonstration of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in marmosets by NADPH diaphorase
(NADPH-d) histochemistry and NOS immunoreactivity.

Grozdanovic Z(1), Nakos G, Christova T, Nikolova Z, Mayer B, Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

Since species interdiversity often prevents the extrapolation of laboratory
rodent data to man and similar problems may exist for nitric oxide synthase
(NOS), NADPH-d activity and immunohistochemistry of NOS were investigated in the 
New World monkey Callithrix jacchus (marmoset), which has been shown to be close 
to the human situation in many respects. Using the NADPHd reaction with
beta-NADPH and nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) on acetone-chloroform pretreated
cryosections, NBT formazan was found in many neural and non-neural (e.g. diverse 
epithelia, striated muscle fibers, vascular endothelium) cells in numerous
tissues and organs. Prefixation with formaldehyde lowered the number of NADPH-d
active sites and the amount of formazan with the exception of neuronal NADPH-d as
did incubation of fresh or acetone-chloroform-pretreated sections for NADPH-d in 
the presence of 0.5% formaldehyde. When 1% formaldehyde or 0.5 mM permanganate
were used significant amounts of formazan appeared only in central and peripheral
neurons, vasal endothelial cells, small intestinal enterocytes, plasma membrane
region of striated muscle fibers as well as arteriolar cells in the kidney;
except for enterocytes, these observations were confirmed by
NOS-immunohistochemistry which revealed in addition reactive cells in the thymus 
and intestinal lamina propria.

DOI: 10.1016/S0065-1281(11)80197-2 
PMID: 8525791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

