

3891. Neuroscience. 1995 Jul;67(2):263-75.

Conditional learning and memory impairments following neurotoxic lesion of the
CA1 field of the hippocampus.

Ridley RM(1), Timothy CJ, Maclean CJ, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
Cambridge, U.K.

Monkeys with bilateral lesions of the CA1 field of the hippocampus produced by
the injection of neurotoxin diagonally along the length of the hippocampus were
found to have a severe impairment on the retention of a conditional task learnt
prior to surgery and on the new acquisition of several types of this task. They
were equally impaired on conditional tasks that required a spatial response or an
object choice in response to either visual or spatial cues. They were not
impaired on simple visual discrimination tasks, simple spatial discrimination
tasks or reversal learning of these tasks. This patterns of impairment resembles 
that seen in the same species with neurotoxic lesions within the vertical limb of
the diagonal band of Broca or transection of the fornix. Monkeys with subtotal
lesions of the adjacent medial temporal area were not consistently impaired on
any of these tasks. The results suggest that hippocampal lesions produce
anterograde and retrograde amnesia for information other than reward association.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(95)00063-o 
PMID: 7675168  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3892. Ann Anat. 1995 Jul;177(5):431-8.

Visualization of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-production from histamine.

Nakos G(1), Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The cellular and intracellular metabolization sites of the tissue hormone and
paracrine compound histamine as a source for the indirect and potentially toxic
or physiological mediator molecule H2O2 are not yet known. Therefore, in the
present study, histamine was used as the substrate in a
cerium-diaminobenzidine-H2O2-Co procedure to visualize for the first time the
oxidative deamination and H2O2-production sites of this amine in various
laboratory animals. Diamine oxidase (DAOX) was shown to be the responsible
enzyme. With the exception of marmosets, all species could deaminate histamine
oxidatively and form H2O2. In most species, H2O2 was produced by DAOX from
histamine in small intestinal enterocytes; in rats H2O2 was generated in all
vascular and non-vascular smooth muscle cells; in guinea-pigs only smooth muscle 
cells in the digestive tract and uterus and in addition the cardiac and gastric
capillary endothelium and hepatic sinusoidal endothelium produced H2O2.
Furthermore, in some species H2O2 was generated by DAOX with histamine as the
substrate in certain renal, adrenal and splenic cell types. While H2O2-production
in enterocytes may derive from luminal-borne histamine, i.e., from histamine of
foreign origin, the formation of H2O2 in the other cells suggests endogenous
(mast cell, basophilborne) histamine as the substrate and H2O2 source.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(11)80150-0 
PMID: 7645739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

