

3895. Brain Res. 1995 Jun 12;683(1):102-8.

Functional implications of kappa opioid receptor-mediated modulation of glutamate
transmission in the output regions of the basal ganglia in rodent and primate
models of Parkinson's disease.

Maneuf YP(1), Mitchell IJ, Crossman AR, Woodruff GN, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, School of Biological Sciences, University of
Manchester, UK.

Parkinson's disease is characterized by an increased excitatory amino acid
transmission in the internal segment of the globus pallidus and the substantia
nigra pars reticulata. The effects of the kappa receptor agonist enadoline
(CI-977) on glutamate transmission were investigated in vitro. Enadoline reduced 
the K(+)-evoked release of glutamate from slices of substantia nigra in a
concentration-dependent manner (maximum effect: 78% inhibition at 200 microM).
This effect was blocked by the selective kappa receptor antagonist
nor-binaltorphimine. The endogenous ligand for kappa receptors is thought to be
dynorphin. Dynorphin released from terminals of striato-pallidal and
striato-nigral pathways might thus act as an endogenous modulatory agent on
glutamatergic transmission in the basal ganglia. In vivo experiments were carried
out in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease to assess the potential
of manipulating kappa receptors as a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease.
Enadoline reduced reserpine-induced akinesia when injected in the entopeduncular 
nucleus of the rat. Similarly, injections of CI-977 in the internal segment of
globus pallidus (GPi) of the MPTP-treated marmoset alleviated parkinsonian
symptoms and allowed the animal to recover its locomotor activity. This suggest
that reducing the overactive glutamatergic transmission in the output regions of 
the basal ganglia by activating kappa receptors might potentially form the basis 
of a novel anti-parkinsonian therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(95)00358-w 
PMID: 7552334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3896. Lancet. 1995 Jun 10;345(8963):1453-4.

The new GB hepatitis viruses.

Zuckerman AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)WHO Collaborating Centre for Reference and Research on Viral Diseases, Royal
Free Hospital School of Medicine, London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1995 Aug 12;346(8972):447-8.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(95)91032-8 
PMID: 7769898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

