

3897. Genomics. 1995 Jun 10;27(3):535-8.

Sequence and evolution of the blue cone pigment gene in Old and New World
primates.

Hunt DM(1), Cowing JA, Patel R, Appukuttan B, Bowmaker JK, Mollon JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, University of London, United Kingdom.

The sequences of the blue cone photopigments in the talapoin monkey (Miopithecus 
talapoin), an Old World primate, and in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New 
World monkey, are presented. Both genes are composed of 5 exons separated by 4
introns. In this respect, they are identical to the human blue gene, and intron
sizes are also similar. Based on the level of amino acid identity, both monkey
pigments are members of the S branch of pigments. Alignment of these sequences
with the human gene requires the insertion/deletion of two separate codons in
exon 1. The silent site divergence between these primate blue genes indicates a
separation of the Old and New World primate lineages around 43 million years ago.

DOI: 10.1006/geno.1995.1088 
PMID: 7558038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3898. Hear Res. 1995 Jun;86(1-2):89-99.

Calcium-binding proteins in the spiral ganglion of the monkey, Callithrix
jacchus.

Spatz WB(1), LÃ¶hle E.

Author information: 
(1)Unit for Morphological Brain Research, University of Freiburg, FRG.

Calcium-binding proteins can act as intermediaries between changing levels of
free intracellular calcium ions and the physiological response of neurons. Some
of these proteins, among them calbindin (CB), calretinin (CR) and parvalbumin
(PV), can act as calcium buffers. A survey of previous studies in rodents and
human fetuses leads to the impression that many spiral ganglion cells co-express 
CB, CR, and PV. The findings of the present study suggest that, in the adult
marmoset, the expression of CB is restricted to a small number of cells, most
likely type II ganglion cells, and that at least some of the numerous type I
ganglion cells co-express CR and PV. In the neonate marmoset, large numbers of
putative type I ganglion cells from the apical cochlear turn transiently
expressed a light and granular labeling for CB-like immunoreactivity, in addition
to the cells we believe to be type II ganglion cells exhibiting a strong and
solid CB-like staining. The spiral ganglion cells in all developmental stages
co-expressed the mitochondrial enzyme cytochrome oxidase. Furthermore, a small
population of CB-LI axons of unknown origin was found to terminate near the
CB-immunoreactive ganglion cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-5955(95)00059-d 
PMID: 8567426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

