

3898. Hear Res. 1995 Jun;86(1-2):89-99.

Calcium-binding proteins in the spiral ganglion of the monkey, Callithrix
jacchus.

Spatz WB(1), LÃ¶hle E.

Author information: 
(1)Unit for Morphological Brain Research, University of Freiburg, FRG.

Calcium-binding proteins can act as intermediaries between changing levels of
free intracellular calcium ions and the physiological response of neurons. Some
of these proteins, among them calbindin (CB), calretinin (CR) and parvalbumin
(PV), can act as calcium buffers. A survey of previous studies in rodents and
human fetuses leads to the impression that many spiral ganglion cells co-express 
CB, CR, and PV. The findings of the present study suggest that, in the adult
marmoset, the expression of CB is restricted to a small number of cells, most
likely type II ganglion cells, and that at least some of the numerous type I
ganglion cells co-express CR and PV. In the neonate marmoset, large numbers of
putative type I ganglion cells from the apical cochlear turn transiently
expressed a light and granular labeling for CB-like immunoreactivity, in addition
to the cells we believe to be type II ganglion cells exhibiting a strong and
solid CB-like staining. The spiral ganglion cells in all developmental stages
co-expressed the mitochondrial enzyme cytochrome oxidase. Furthermore, a small
population of CB-LI axons of unknown origin was found to terminate near the
CB-immunoreactive ganglion cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-5955(95)00059-d 
PMID: 8567426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3899. Virology. 1995 Jun 1;209(2):374-83.

Transmissible retrovirus in Epstein-Barr virus-producer B95-8 cells.

Sun R(1), Grogan E, Shedd D, Bykovsky AF, Kushnaryov VM, Grossberg SE, Miller G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) released from the B95-8 marmoset cell line has served as
a prototype for biologic and biochemical studies of EBV. Here we identify and
characterize a retrovirus carried by many cultures of B95-8 cells. The
experiments were stimulated by the isolation of a cDNA clone from B95-8 cells in 
which sequences from the EBV large internal repeat were linked to gag sequences
similar to those of squirrel monkey retrovirus, human isolate, SMRV-H. However,
among 413 amino acids predicted from the nucleotide sequence of the gag region of
the B95-8 SMRV isolate there were 48 amino acid changes that distinguished this
virus from SMRV-H originally isolated from a human lymphoid cell line by Oda et
al. (1988, Virology 167, 468-476). Nucleic acid and antibody probes were
developed for the B95-8 isolate of SMRV. Using such probes, we found that
SMRV-B95-8 was readily transmissible, independent of EBV, as an infectious virus 
to human B and T cell lines. SMRV-B95-8 was highly fusogenic in the presence or
absence of EBV. The ultrastructural appearance of the B95-8 retrovirus was
characteristic of a type D retrovirus. Cells dually infected with EBV and
SMRV-B95-8 did not demonstrate increased levels of lytic EB viral replication.
SMRV-B95-8 did not by itself cause lymphocyte immortalization or enhance
immortalization by EBV. Thus SMRV-B95-8 does not contribute to the major biologic
properties of the B95-8 strain of EBV.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1995.1269 
PMID: 7778272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

