

3899. Virology. 1995 Jun 1;209(2):374-83.

Transmissible retrovirus in Epstein-Barr virus-producer B95-8 cells.

Sun R(1), Grogan E, Shedd D, Bykovsky AF, Kushnaryov VM, Grossberg SE, Miller G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) released from the B95-8 marmoset cell line has served as
a prototype for biologic and biochemical studies of EBV. Here we identify and
characterize a retrovirus carried by many cultures of B95-8 cells. The
experiments were stimulated by the isolation of a cDNA clone from B95-8 cells in 
which sequences from the EBV large internal repeat were linked to gag sequences
similar to those of squirrel monkey retrovirus, human isolate, SMRV-H. However,
among 413 amino acids predicted from the nucleotide sequence of the gag region of
the B95-8 SMRV isolate there were 48 amino acid changes that distinguished this
virus from SMRV-H originally isolated from a human lymphoid cell line by Oda et
al. (1988, Virology 167, 468-476). Nucleic acid and antibody probes were
developed for the B95-8 isolate of SMRV. Using such probes, we found that
SMRV-B95-8 was readily transmissible, independent of EBV, as an infectious virus 
to human B and T cell lines. SMRV-B95-8 was highly fusogenic in the presence or
absence of EBV. The ultrastructural appearance of the B95-8 retrovirus was
characteristic of a type D retrovirus. Cells dually infected with EBV and
SMRV-B95-8 did not demonstrate increased levels of lytic EB viral replication.
SMRV-B95-8 did not by itself cause lymphocyte immortalization or enhance
immortalization by EBV. Thus SMRV-B95-8 does not contribute to the major biologic
properties of the B95-8 strain of EBV.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1995.1269 
PMID: 7778272  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3900. J Virol. 1995 Jun;69(6):3752-8.

A subpopulation of normal B cells latently infected with Epstein-Barr virus
resembles Burkitt lymphoma cells in expressing EBNA-1 but not EBNA-2 or LMP1.

Chen F(1), Zou JZ, di Renzo L, Winberg G, Hu LF, Klein E, Klein G, Ernberg I.

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology and Tumor Biology Center, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,
Sweden.

Using reverse transcription of whole cellular RNA and nested PCR, we have
performed experiments mixing different proportions of Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV)-carrying and EBV-negative cells. Based on the results, a method that
detects viral transcripts for EBNA-1, EBNA-2, LMP1, and LMP2a from less than one 
positive cell among 10(5) negative cells was developed. With this method we have 
shown that the EBV DNA positive cells among small, high-density peripheral blood 
B-lymphocytes of normal healthy persons express EBNA-1-mRNA but not EBNA-2 or
LMP1. A similar EBV expression pattern is found in type I Burkitt lymphoma cells.
We suggest that the expression pattern in the lymphoma cells reflects the viral
strategy in normal resting B cells and meets the requirements of latent
persistence.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.69.6.3752-3758.1995 
PMCID: PMC189092
PMID: 7745723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

