

3900. J Virol. 1995 Jun;69(6):3752-8.

A subpopulation of normal B cells latently infected with Epstein-Barr virus
resembles Burkitt lymphoma cells in expressing EBNA-1 but not EBNA-2 or LMP1.

Chen F(1), Zou JZ, di Renzo L, Winberg G, Hu LF, Klein E, Klein G, Ernberg I.

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology and Tumor Biology Center, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,
Sweden.

Using reverse transcription of whole cellular RNA and nested PCR, we have
performed experiments mixing different proportions of Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV)-carrying and EBV-negative cells. Based on the results, a method that
detects viral transcripts for EBNA-1, EBNA-2, LMP1, and LMP2a from less than one 
positive cell among 10(5) negative cells was developed. With this method we have 
shown that the EBV DNA positive cells among small, high-density peripheral blood 
B-lymphocytes of normal healthy persons express EBNA-1-mRNA but not EBNA-2 or
LMP1. A similar EBV expression pattern is found in type I Burkitt lymphoma cells.
We suggest that the expression pattern in the lymphoma cells reflects the viral
strategy in normal resting B cells and meets the requirements of latent
persistence.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.69.6.3752-3758.1995 
PMCID: PMC189092
PMID: 7745723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3901. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1995 Jun;191(6):509-17.

Parcellation of the frontal cortex of the New World monkey Callithrix jacchus by 
eight neurotransmitter-binding sites.

Gebhard R(1), Zilles K, Schleicher A, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW, Divac I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of DÃ¼sseldorf, Germany.

The most extensive development during primate brain evolution involves the cortex
of the frontal lobe, especially its prefrontal region. The distribution of
neurotransmitter receptors is unknown in this part of the cortex of New World
monkeys. The respective distributions of eight different receptors for the
transmitters L-glutamate (L-glu and NMDA), gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABAA),
noradrenaline (alpha 1), acetylcholine (M1 and M2) and serotonin (5-HT1 and
5-HT2) were therefore studied in cortical areas of the frontal lobe of the
lissencephalic New World monkey, Callithrix jacchus. The results are compared to 
earlier data on Old World monkeys in order to obtain insight into evolutionary
trends at the level of chemical neuroanatomy. Our results indicate that the
density and laminar pattern of some receptors change precisely at the
cytoarchitectonic boundaries between different cortical areas, while some other
receptors do not exhibit measurable changes. For example, the premotor area 6 can
be distinguished from prefrontal areas by its high concentration of adrenergic
alpha 1 receptors as labelled with [3H] prazosin, with only the cingulate area 24
showing higher values. In other cases, the receptor distribution changes within a
cytoarchitectonically homogeneous area. Thus, area 8 can be subdivided into
dorsal and ventral regions on the basis of the distribution of GABAA, muscarinic 
and serotonin receptors. Comparison of these results in a New World monkey with
receptor distributions in other primate species reveals much larger interspecies 
differences in the areas of the frontal lobe than e.g. in the primary visual
cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00186741 
PMID: 7677258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

