

3901. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1995 Jun;191(6):509-17.

Parcellation of the frontal cortex of the New World monkey Callithrix jacchus by 
eight neurotransmitter-binding sites.

Gebhard R(1), Zilles K, Schleicher A, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW, Divac I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of DÃ¼sseldorf, Germany.

The most extensive development during primate brain evolution involves the cortex
of the frontal lobe, especially its prefrontal region. The distribution of
neurotransmitter receptors is unknown in this part of the cortex of New World
monkeys. The respective distributions of eight different receptors for the
transmitters L-glutamate (L-glu and NMDA), gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABAA),
noradrenaline (alpha 1), acetylcholine (M1 and M2) and serotonin (5-HT1 and
5-HT2) were therefore studied in cortical areas of the frontal lobe of the
lissencephalic New World monkey, Callithrix jacchus. The results are compared to 
earlier data on Old World monkeys in order to obtain insight into evolutionary
trends at the level of chemical neuroanatomy. Our results indicate that the
density and laminar pattern of some receptors change precisely at the
cytoarchitectonic boundaries between different cortical areas, while some other
receptors do not exhibit measurable changes. For example, the premotor area 6 can
be distinguished from prefrontal areas by its high concentration of adrenergic
alpha 1 receptors as labelled with [3H] prazosin, with only the cingulate area 24
showing higher values. In other cases, the receptor distribution changes within a
cytoarchitectonically homogeneous area. Thus, area 8 can be subdivided into
dorsal and ventral regions on the basis of the distribution of GABAA, muscarinic 
and serotonin receptors. Comparison of these results in a New World monkey with
receptor distributions in other primate species reveals much larger interspecies 
differences in the areas of the frontal lobe than e.g. in the primary visual
cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00186741 
PMID: 7677258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3902. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1995 Jun-Jul;51(2-3):443-56.

Effects of low doses of cholinesterase inhibitors on behavioral performance of
robot-tested marmosets.

Wolthuis OL(1), Groen B, Busker RW, van Helden HP.

Author information: 
(1)TNO-Pharma, Department of Experimental Pharmacology, HV Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

To investigate at which dose levels undesirable effects started, behavioural
performance and several physiological parameters were measured in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) after soman (1.75 and 3.5 micrograms/kg), sarin (3 and 6
micrograms/kg), physostigmine (10 and 20 micrograms/kg), and pyridostigmine (200 
and 400 micrograms/kg). Effects on performance were investigated with a
discrete-trial, two-choice visual discrimination task and a hand-eye coordination
task. The former test appeared more sensitive to disruption than the hand-eye
coordination task. "Motor speed" was not disrupted by any of the four compounds. 
However, "choice time" as well as "no attempts" increased and were clearly more
disturbed by soman and physostigmine than by sarin and pyridostigmine. All
effects had disappeared after 24 h. Except for a small effect of sarin on heart
rate and blood pressure, none of the cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors affected a
number of physiological parameters at behavioural effective does that caused a
profound ChE inhibition in blood. Take together, these results strongly suggest
that both soman and physostigmine may interfere with higher CNS functions at low 
dose levels. These effects may go undetected because physical signs are absent.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(95)00006-i 
PMID: 7667367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

