

3904. Biol Reprod. 1995 Jun;52(6):1234-43.

Meiotic competence of marmoset monkey oocytes is related to follicle size and
oocyte-somatic cell associations.

Gilchrist RB(1), Nayudu PL, Nowshari MA, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

This study was conducted to investigate the relationships between oocyte meiotic 
competence, follicle size, and occyte-somatic cell associations in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus). Follicles were excised from ovaries of nonstimulated
adult cyclic females (n = 6) collected on Day 7 of the follicular phase.
Follicles were separated into size groups: large preantral (260-400 microns),
periantral (420-640 microns), small antral (660-1000 microns), large antral
(1020-2000 microns), and preovulatory (> 2000 microns). Partially naked and
cumulus/granulosa-enclosed oocytes (n = 473) were released from follicles and
cultured in Waymouth's medium with 10% fetal calf serum, 1 microgram/ml human (h)
FSH, and 10 micrograms/ml hLH. Somatic cells remaining after 46 h were removed,
and oocytes were fixed after 48 h and mounted for viewing. Chromatin staining and
microtubulin fluorescence labeling were used to assess progression of meiotic
maturation and spindle normality. The follicle size distribution and
oocytesomatic cell associations are reported. Competencies of oocytes to achieve 
germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD) and metaphase II (MII) increased significantly 
(p < 0.001) with follicular size but not with the association of somatic cells.
Marmoset oocytes from antral follicles resumed (GVBD) and completed (MII) meiotic
maturation with high frequencies (98% and 72%, respectively), with no significant
differences among size groups of antral follicles. GVBD competence was virtually 
absent in oocytes from preantral follicles (2%) and was acquired coincidentally
with antrum formation (60%), although MII competence was attained after the
completion of antrum formation. Partially naked oocytes from small antral
follicles matured with a high incidence of spindle and meiotic abnormalities
(44%). Marmoset oocyte meiotic competencies are notably higher than in any other 
nonhuman primate species studied, and a possible explanation for this phenomenon 
in relation to the stage of antrum formation is offered.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod52.6.1234 
PMID: 7632831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3905. Ann Anat. 1995 Jun;177(4):347-59.

The interstitial space of the thyroid gland of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Maile S(1), Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Prenatal Pharmacology, Free University of Berlin, 
Germany.

The interstitial space of the thyroid gland of adult marmosets contains, like the
stroma of other organs, cells and intercellular substance (matrix), blood vessels
(predominantly capillaries), lymph vessels and unmyelinated nerves. It is
demarcated from the follicular epithelium, the capillaries and Schwann cells by a
basal lamina (BL). The perifollicular BL shows thickenings of up to 3 microns
over long distances or a multilayered arrangement. These thickened segments
exhibit numerous epithelial processes and ridges; in other words, the contour of 
the basal cell membrane is very irregular in these areas. Indentations of
capillaries into the epithelium are rarely observed. The endothelium is only
slightly porous. Lymph capillaries occur in large numbers. They originate freely 
in the interstitial space, show gaps or unspecific contacts between the thin
endothelial cells; a basal lamina is missing. Bundles of 10-nm thick filaments
(anchor filaments) extend to the endothelial cells of the lymph capillaries. Thin
and very long (up to 8 microns) plate-like processes surround the capillaries or 
run parallel to the outer contour of the follicles. They originate at the poles
of oval, fibroblast-like cells. Since these cells are FXIII- and C3bi-positive,
they can be considered as dendritic cells. They obviously play a role in the
frequently-observed autoimmune diseases of this species. In addition, monocytes
and all transitional forms including macrophages, fibrocytes and lymphocytes as
well as numerous mast cells occur. In the region of the BL, integrins of the beta
1-group (alpha 6) can be demonstrated immunohistologically in addition to the
usual components (collagen type IV, laminin and heparan sulfate-proteoglycan). Of
the fibrillar collagens type I does not occur, type III occurs only in small
amounts, whereas types V and VI are observed in large amounts. The presented
findings may serve as basis for more extensive experiments on these primates.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(11)80374-2 
PMID: 7625607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

