

3905. Ann Anat. 1995 Jun;177(4):347-59.

The interstitial space of the thyroid gland of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Maile S(1), Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Prenatal Pharmacology, Free University of Berlin, 
Germany.

The interstitial space of the thyroid gland of adult marmosets contains, like the
stroma of other organs, cells and intercellular substance (matrix), blood vessels
(predominantly capillaries), lymph vessels and unmyelinated nerves. It is
demarcated from the follicular epithelium, the capillaries and Schwann cells by a
basal lamina (BL). The perifollicular BL shows thickenings of up to 3 microns
over long distances or a multilayered arrangement. These thickened segments
exhibit numerous epithelial processes and ridges; in other words, the contour of 
the basal cell membrane is very irregular in these areas. Indentations of
capillaries into the epithelium are rarely observed. The endothelium is only
slightly porous. Lymph capillaries occur in large numbers. They originate freely 
in the interstitial space, show gaps or unspecific contacts between the thin
endothelial cells; a basal lamina is missing. Bundles of 10-nm thick filaments
(anchor filaments) extend to the endothelial cells of the lymph capillaries. Thin
and very long (up to 8 microns) plate-like processes surround the capillaries or 
run parallel to the outer contour of the follicles. They originate at the poles
of oval, fibroblast-like cells. Since these cells are FXIII- and C3bi-positive,
they can be considered as dendritic cells. They obviously play a role in the
frequently-observed autoimmune diseases of this species. In addition, monocytes
and all transitional forms including macrophages, fibrocytes and lymphocytes as
well as numerous mast cells occur. In the region of the BL, integrins of the beta
1-group (alpha 6) can be demonstrated immunohistologically in addition to the
usual components (collagen type IV, laminin and heparan sulfate-proteoglycan). Of
the fibrillar collagens type I does not occur, type III occurs only in small
amounts, whereas types V and VI are observed in large amounts. The presented
findings may serve as basis for more extensive experiments on these primates.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(11)80374-2 
PMID: 7625607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3906. Ann Anat. 1995 Jun;177(4):337-46.

Morphology of thyroid follicular cells from adult marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Maile S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Prenatal Pharmacology, Free University of Berlin, 
Germany.

The existence of follicles with a "super flat" epithelium and the large number of
primary and especially secondary lysosomes and lipofuscin granules in these cells
are characteristic features of the thyroid gland of adult marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus, new-world monkeys). It is supposed that these morphological findings are
indications of a relatively low function and early ageing.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(11)80373-0 
PMID: 7625606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

