

3909. Placenta. 1995 Jun;16(4):335-46.

Differential distribution of mRNA for the alpha- and beta-subunits of chorionic
gonadotrophin in the implantation stage blastocyst of the marmoset monkey.

Lopata A(1), Berka J, Simula A, Norman R, Otani T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria.

Erratum in
    Placenta 1995 Sep;16(6):567.

We studied the expression of mRNA encoding the alpha- and beta-subunits of
marmoset chorionic gonadotrophin (mCG) in implantation stage blastocysts and in a
trophoblastic cell line derived from such blastocysts. In this investigation in
situ hybridization was carried out using digoxygenin-labelled riboprobes to
localize the subunit transcripts. The trophoblastic cell line, known to secrete
bioactive mCG, was used as a positive control. Marmoset uterine embryos were
cultured to hatched blastocysts and following growth on Matrigel or plastic were 
processed for in situ hybridization at developmental stages ranging from 13-15
days post-conception. In serial sections mCG-beta mRNA was detected mainly in
polar trophoblast. The mRNA for mCG-alpha was expressed more uniformly in polar
and mural trophoblast. Transcripts for the beta-subunit were not expressed, or
present as weak signals, in the inner cell mass (ICM) and endoderm. However, low 
levels of mRNA for mCG-alpha were detected in the ICM and visceral endoderm. We
have concluded that mRNA for mCG-beta was primarily localized to patches of
syncytiotrophoblast at the embryonic pole and sparsely distributed in mural
trophoblast, while the transcripts for mCG-alpha were distributed more uniformly 
in differentiating cytotrophoblast and syncytium, and at much lower levels in ICM
and early endoderm.

DOI: 10.1016/0143-4004(95)90091-8 
PMID: 7567796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3910. Neuroreport. 1995 May 30;6(8):1141-5.

Regional distribution and characterization of nitric oxide synthase activity in
the brain of the common marmoset.

Gerlach M(1), Oehler D, Blum-Degen D, Lange KW, Mayer B, Reichmann H, Riederer P.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Nervenklinik, Abteilung Klinische Neurochemie,
Julius-Maximilians-Universität, Würzburg, Germany.

The distribution of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) within the brain of the common
marmoset, a non-human primate species, was investigated using the
[3H]L-citrulline formation assay and Western blot analysis. No hemispheric
asymmetry of specific NOS activity was shown. The highest levels of NOS were
found in the putamen and caudate nucleus--more than twice those in the cortex and
the cerebellum, the brain regions with the lowest activities. The regional
distribution pattern was similar to that in the ferret brain and contrasted to
that in the mouse and bovine brain. Analysis of NOS catalytic activities in
subcellular fractions revealed marked differences in the subcellular
localization. Neuronal NOS accounted mainly for the measured catalytic activity
in the brain. Differences in the regional distribution pattern of brain NOS
activity among species may be indicative of diversities in the functional role of
nitric oxide and NOS in mammals.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199505300-00017 
PMID: 7545017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

