

3914. Eur J Pharmacol. 1995 Apr 24;277(2-3):235-41.

Short- and long-term changes in striatal and extrastriatal dopamine uptake sites 
in the MPTP-treated common marmoset.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Milkowski NA, Smith LA, Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, UK.

The 'short-term' (15-30 days) and 'long-term' (18-42 months) effects of the
systemic administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on
[3H]mazindol binding to dopamine uptake sites was investigated in the common
marmoset. In the 'short-term' MPTP-treated group, [3H]mazindol binding was
reduced in the caudate-putamen (by -82 to -98% with respect to controls),
substantia nigra pars compacta (-71 to -84%), ventral tegmental area (-72%) and
nucleus accumbens (-54%). [3H]Mazindol binding in the globus pallidus, frontal
cortex and substantia nigra pars reticulata was much lower and was unaffected by 
MPTP treatment. In the 'long-term' MPTP-treated group [3H]mazindol binding was
still greatly reduced in the substantia nigra pars compacta (by -76 to -89%),
ventral tegmental area (-71%) and most of the caudate-putamen (-69 to -98%),
although the reduction in [3H]mazindol binding in the nucleus accumbens (-27%)
and rostroventral caudate nucleus (-69%) was less than in the 'short-term'
MPTP-treated group. The motor deficits induced by MPTP treatment in the common
marmoset are largely reversible with increasing survival times (Ueki et al.,
1989, Neuropharmacology 28, 1089). In the present study, the apparent 'recovery' 
in [3H]mazindol binding in the rostroventral caudate nucleus and nucleus
accumbens may indicate regeneration of dopamine neurone terminals in these
regions and this may contribute to the behavioural recovery seen in this primate 
model of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(95)00086-z 
PMID: 7493614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3915. J Comp Neurol. 1995 Apr 17;354(4):511-32.

Projections of the lateral terminal accessory optic nucleus of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Blanks RH(1), Clarke RJ, Lui F, Giolli RA, Van Pham S, Torigoe Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, School of Medicine, University of
California-Irvine 92717.

The connections of the lateral terminal nucleus (LTN) of the accessory optic
system (AOS) of the marmoset monkey were studied with anterograde 3H-amino acid
light autoradiography and horseradish peroxidase retrograde labeling techniques. 
Results show a first and largest LTN projection to the pretectal and AOS nuclei
including the ipsilateral nucleus of the optic tract, dorsal terminal nucleus,
and interstitial nucleus of the superior fasciculus (posterior fibers); smaller
contralateral projections are to the olivary pretectal nucleus, dorsal terminal
nucleus, and LTN. A second, major bundle produces moderate-to-heavy labeling in
all ipsilateral, accessory oculomotor nuclei (nucleus of posterior commissure,
interstitial nucleus of Cajal, nucleus of Darkschewitsch) and nucleus of
Bechterew; some of the fibers are distributed above the caudal oculomotor complex
within the supraoculomotor periaqueductal gray. A third projection is ipsilateral
to the pontine and mesencephalic reticular formations, nucleus reticularis
tegmenti pontis and basilar pontine complex (dorsolateral nucleus only), dorsal
parts of the medial terminal accessory optic nucleus, ventral tegmental area of
Tsai, and rostral interstitial nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus.
Lastly, there are two long descending bundles: (1) one travels within the medial 
longitudinal fasciculus to terminate in the dorsal cap (ipsilateral >>
contralateral) and medial accessory olive (ipsilateral only) of the inferior
olivary complex. (2) The second soon splits, sending axons within the ipsilateral
and contralateral brachium conjunctivum and is distributed to the superior and
medial vestibular nuclei. The present findings are in general agreement with the 
documented connections of LTN with brainstem oculomotor centers in other species.
In addition, there are unique connections in marmoset monkey that may have
developed to serve the more complex oculomotor behavior of nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903540404 
PMID: 7608336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

