

3923. J Infect Dis. 1995 Mar;171 Suppl 1:S40-3.

Efficacy of an inactivated hepatitis A vaccine in pre- and postexposure
conditions in marmosets.

D'Hondt E(1), Purcell RH, Emerson SU, Wong DC, Shapiro M, Govindarajan S.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium.

A two-part challenge study was done in marmoset monkeys to confirm the efficacy
of an inactivated hepatitis A vaccine. In part 1 (preexposure), 7 marmosets
received a single low dose of vaccine (360 ELISA units [EL.U.]) and were
challenged orally with wild type hepatitis A virus (HAV) either 1 or 6 months
later. In part 2 (postexposure), 8 marmosets were challenged orally with HAV and 
then half each were inoculated with a single dose of 360 or 1440 EL.U. of vaccine
2 days later. The suboptimal immune response elicited by the low vaccine dose in 
the preexposure group was sufficient to induce complete protection against oral
challenge with heterologous HAV in all marmosets that had responded
serologically. In the postexposure group, the 360-EL.U. dose of vaccine resulted 
in partial protection against hepatitis A disease, whereas the 1440-EL.U. dose of
vaccine elicited complete protection against disease and virus excretion.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/171.supplement_1.s40 
PMID: 7876647  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3924. J Lipid Res. 1995 Mar;36(3):451-61.

Control of lipolysis in intra-abdominal fat cells of nonhuman primates:
comparison with humans.

Bousquet-Mélou A(1), Galitzky J, Lafontan M, Berlan M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM), Faculté de
Médecine, Toulouse, France.

The mechanisms that control lipolysis in intra-abdominal fat cells from various
primate species, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), the baboon (Papio papio), and
the macaque (Macaca fascicularis), were compared to those of human intraabdominal
fat cells. Selective beta 1- or beta 2-adrenoceptor agonists induced lipolysis in
all species. Selective beta 3-agonists (BRL 37344, CL 316243, and SR 58611) acted
as partial agonists in marmoset but were inefficient in other primates, including
humans. alpha 2-Adrenoceptor number ([3H]RX 8210002 binding) equalized (baboon)
or exceeded (other primates) beta 1/beta 2-adrenoceptors ([3H]CGP 12177 binding).
Baboon fat cell membranes expressed similar amounts of coupled beta- and alpha
2-adrenoceptors. In all species, norepinephrine- or epinephrine-induced lipolysis
did not reach the lipolytic effect of isoproterenol but their effects were
enhanced after alpha 2-adrenoceptor blockade. N6-phenylisopropyladenosine (PIA)
induced a full antilipolytic effect in baboon, macaque, and human adipocytes
through adenosine receptors ([3H]DPCPX binding). Peptide YY (PYY) weakly
inhibited lipolysis in baboon. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) was inactive
whereas parathyroid hormone (PTH) partially stimulated lipolysis in primates.
Histamine was partially lipolytic in marmoset only. This study emphasizes the
similarities of the mechanisms controlling the lipolysis in nonhuman primate and 
in human adipocytes and suggests that the baboon and the macaque should provide
unique models for the study of the regulation of lipolysis.


PMID: 7775857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

