

3925. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1995 Mar;191(3):213-25.

Quantitative receptor autoradiography of eight different transmitter-binding
sites in the hippocampus of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Kraemer M(1), Zilles K, Schleicher A, Gebhard R, Robbins TW, Everitt BJ, Divac I.

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Clinic, Heinrich-Heine University, DÃ¼sseldorf, Germany.

The regional and laminar distributions of eight different transmitter-binding
sites were measured in the marmoset hippocampus by means of quantitative in vitro
receptor autoradiography. Receptors for 5-HT1, L-glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate 
(NMDA) and GABAA were similarly distributed. The highest concentrations of these 
receptors were found in the pyramidal layer of CA1 and the molecular layer of the
dentate gyrus. The 5-HT2 receptors showed the highest concentrations in the
oriens layer of CA2. The highest concentrations of muscarinic M1 receptors were
seen in the pyramidal layer of CA1. Muscarinic M2 receptors were most densely
concentrated in the pyramidal layers of CA1, CA2 and CA3. The noradrenergic alpha
1 receptors were most densely packed in the radiatum-lacunosum-molecular layer of
CA2 and the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Statistically significant
co-distributions of serotoninergic, glutamatergic and GABAergic receptors point
to possible interactions between these receptor systems in the same hippocampal
regions and layers. Comparisons of marmoset distribution patterns for GABAA,
NMDA, L-glutamate and 5-HT1 receptors with those in human hippocampi and those of
other primates showed similarities between them. Clear differences in the
patterns of alpha 1, M1, M2 and 5-HT2 receptors could be seen between marmoset
and human hippocampi, indicating a high degree of species specificity in a
presumably "conservative" brain region. More similarities, however, could be
found between marmoset and human hippocampi than between those of rat and human
brains, especially in relation to 5-HT1 and GABAA receptors and
L-glutamate-binding sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00187820 
PMID: 7771684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3926. Eur J Pharmacol. 1995 Feb 14;274(1-3):201-11.

Pharmacological profile of ME3221, a novel angiotensin II receptor antagonist.

Nagura J(1), Yasuda S, Fujishima K, Yamamoto M, Hui C, Kawano K, Katano K, Ogino 
H, Hachisu M, Konno F.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Discovery Laboratories, Meiji Seika Kaisha, Ltd., Yokohama, Japan.

The pharmacological profile of a new surmountable angiotensin AT1 receptor
antagonist, ME3221,
3-methoxy-2,6-dimethyl-4-[[2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)-1,1'-biphenyl-4-
yl]methoxy]pyridine, was studied in several animal models, and was compared with 
that of losartan. EF2831,
3-hydroxy-2,6-dimethyl-4-[[2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)-1,1'-biphenyl-4-
yl]methoxy]pyridine, a metabolite of ME3221, is also a surmountable angiotensin
AT1 receptor antagonist, whose potency was 1/30 that of ME3221 in vitro, but
equal to or 1/3 of that of ME3221 in in vivo experiments. In rats and marmosets, 
ME3221 antagonized angiotensin II-induced pressor responses, but did not affect
bradykinin-induced depressor responses. ME3221 lowered the blood pressure in
renal hypertensive rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), and its ED25
value was 3 times that of losartan. Repeated administration of ME3221 to SHR had 
a stable and long-lasting antihypertensive effect without influencing heart rate.
Thus ME3221, like losartan, may be useful in the treatment of renal and essential
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(94)00740-x 
PMID: 7768273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

