

3927. Genomics. 1995 Feb 10;25(3):623-9.

The immunoglobulin kappa locus of primates.

Ermert K(1), Mitlöhner H, Schempp W, Zachau HG.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologische Chemie der Universität München, Munich, Germany.

The immunoglobulin kappa genes of nonhuman primates were studied by using
sequence information and hybridization probes derived from the human kappa gene
regions. The following results were obtained: (1) V kappa gene probes of the
three major human kappa subgroups hybridized to restriction nuclease digests of
DNA from the chimpanzees Pan troglodytes (PTR) and Pan paniscus (PPA), the
gorilla Gorilla gorilla (GGO), the orangutan Pongo pygmaeus (PPY), the macaque
Macaca mulatta (MMU), the marmoset Callithrix geoffrei (CGE), and the bushbaby
Galago demidovii (GDE), yielding patterns of decreasing similarity to the
patterns of the human V kappa multigene family. (2) The C kappa gene segments of 
PTR, GGO, and PPY were 99.6, 97, and 93%, respectively, identical in sequence to 
the human C kappa gene. A V kappa gene in PTR, GGO, PPY, and MMU was 98, 96, 96, 
and 95%, respectively, identical to the most C kappa proximal V kappa gene,
called B3. The other two J kappa-C kappa proximal V kappa genes in human, B1 and 
B2, hybridize to restriction fragments of sizes identical to that of DNA from
humans and great apes. (3) The long-range restriction maps of the human (HSA),
PTR, and GGO kappa loci as established by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)
are quite homologous. According to the maps, however, and to hybridization
studies with 11 duplication-differentiating probes, there is only one copy of the
locus in PTR and GGO. This means that the duplication of large parts of the kappa
locus as found in humans occurred after the branch-point of human and great ape
evolution.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0888-7543(95)80003-5 
PMID: 7759095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3928. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1995 Feb 6;207(1):467-75.

Polymorphic tandem repeats in dopamine D4 receptor are spread over primate
species.

Matsumoto M(1), Hidaka K, Tada S, Tasaki Y, Yamaguchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience & Gastrointestinal Research Lab., Institute for Drug Discovery
Research, Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

The human dopamine D4 receptor has polymorphic tandem repeats in the third
cytoplasmic loop. However, these repeats are not present in the rat counterpart. 
To determine whether the tandem repeats are specific to humans or not, we
analyzed genomic DNA sequences for the D4 receptor of six primate species (human,
chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, macaque, marmoset). Sequencing data revealed that
all primates have the 48-bp tandem repeats in the D4 receptor gene. This finding 
suggests that these repeats originated before the separation of the New World
monkey lineage from the Old World monkey and ape-human lineages.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1995.1211 
PMID: 7857303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

