

3928. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1995 Feb 6;207(1):467-75.

Polymorphic tandem repeats in dopamine D4 receptor are spread over primate
species.

Matsumoto M(1), Hidaka K, Tada S, Tasaki Y, Yamaguchi T.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience & Gastrointestinal Research Lab., Institute for Drug Discovery
Research, Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

The human dopamine D4 receptor has polymorphic tandem repeats in the third
cytoplasmic loop. However, these repeats are not present in the rat counterpart. 
To determine whether the tandem repeats are specific to humans or not, we
analyzed genomic DNA sequences for the D4 receptor of six primate species (human,
chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, macaque, marmoset). Sequencing data revealed that
all primates have the 48-bp tandem repeats in the D4 receptor gene. This finding 
suggests that these repeats originated before the separation of the New World
monkey lineage from the Old World monkey and ape-human lineages.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1995.1211 
PMID: 7857303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3929. J Exp Med. 1995 Feb 1;181(2):503-13.

In vivo expansion of HLA-B35 alloreactive T cells sharing homologous T cell
receptors: evidence for maintenance of an oligoclonally dominated allospecificity
by persistent stimulation with an autologous MHC/peptide complex.

Steinle A(1), Reinhardt C, Jantzer P, Schendel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Immunology, University of Munich, Germany.

The nature of alloantigens seen by T lymphocytes, in particular the role of
peptides in allorecognition, has been studied intensively whereas knowledge about
the in vivo emergence, diversity, and the structural basis of specificity of
alloreactive T cells is very limited. Here we describe human T cell clones that
recognize HLA-B35 alloantigens in a peptide-dependent manner. TCR sequence
analysis revealed that several of these allospecific clones utilize homologous
TCR: they all express TCRAV2S3J36C1 and TCRBV4S1J2S7C2 chains with highly related
CDR3 sequences. Thus peptide-specific alloreactivity is reflected in homologous
CDR3 sequences in a manner similar to that described for T cells that recognize
nominal peptide/self-MHC complexes. The in vivo frequency of this TCR specificity
was studied in unstimulated PBL of the responding cell donor who was not
sensitized against HLA-B35. The vast majority (approximately 75%) of the VA2S3J36
junctional regions obtained from two samples of PBL, isolated at a 9-yr interval,
encode CDR3 identical or homologous to those of the functionally characterized
HLA-B35 allospecific T cells. These data are most easily explained by a model of 
alloreactivity in which persistent or recurrent exposure to a foreign
peptide/self-MHC complex led to the in vivo expansion and long-term maintenance
of specific T cells that show fortuitous crossrecognition of an HLA-B35/peptide
complex and dominate the alloresponse against HLA-B35.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.181.2.503 
PMCID: PMC2191865
PMID: 7836907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

