

3929. J Exp Med. 1995 Feb 1;181(2):503-13.

In vivo expansion of HLA-B35 alloreactive T cells sharing homologous T cell
receptors: evidence for maintenance of an oligoclonally dominated allospecificity
by persistent stimulation with an autologous MHC/peptide complex.

Steinle A(1), Reinhardt C, Jantzer P, Schendel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Immunology, University of Munich, Germany.

The nature of alloantigens seen by T lymphocytes, in particular the role of
peptides in allorecognition, has been studied intensively whereas knowledge about
the in vivo emergence, diversity, and the structural basis of specificity of
alloreactive T cells is very limited. Here we describe human T cell clones that
recognize HLA-B35 alloantigens in a peptide-dependent manner. TCR sequence
analysis revealed that several of these allospecific clones utilize homologous
TCR: they all express TCRAV2S3J36C1 and TCRBV4S1J2S7C2 chains with highly related
CDR3 sequences. Thus peptide-specific alloreactivity is reflected in homologous
CDR3 sequences in a manner similar to that described for T cells that recognize
nominal peptide/self-MHC complexes. The in vivo frequency of this TCR specificity
was studied in unstimulated PBL of the responding cell donor who was not
sensitized against HLA-B35. The vast majority (approximately 75%) of the VA2S3J36
junctional regions obtained from two samples of PBL, isolated at a 9-yr interval,
encode CDR3 identical or homologous to those of the functionally characterized
HLA-B35 allospecific T cells. These data are most easily explained by a model of 
alloreactivity in which persistent or recurrent exposure to a foreign
peptide/self-MHC complex led to the in vivo expansion and long-term maintenance
of specific T cells that show fortuitous crossrecognition of an HLA-B35/peptide
complex and dominate the alloresponse against HLA-B35.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.181.2.503 
PMCID: PMC2191865
PMID: 7836907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3930. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1995 Feb;117(3):287-97.

The differential behavioural effects of benzazepine D1 dopamine agonists with
varying efficacies, co-administered with quinpirole in primate and rodent models 
of Parkinson's disease.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society, Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, U.K.

The effects of co-administration of quinpirole with benzazepine D1 dopamine (DA) 
agonists possessing full/supramaximal (SKF 80723 and SKF 82958), partial (SKF
38393 and SKF 75670) and no efficacies (SKF 83959) in stimulating adenylate
cyclase (AC) were investigated in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's
disease (PD). In rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the 
medial forebrain bundle, co-administration of SKF 38393
(7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine), SKF 75670 (3-CH3
analogue), SKF 80723 (6-Br analogue), SKF 83959 (6-Cl, 3-CH3, 3'-CH3 analogue)
and SKF 82958 (6-Cl, 3-C3H5 analogue) strongly potentiated the contralateral
circling induced by quinpirole. In MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) treated common marmosets,
administration of quinpirole alone increased locomotor activity and reversed
motor deficits. Grooming and oral activity were unaltered. Co-administration of
SKF 38393 and SKF 75670 inhibited the quinpirole-induced changes in locomotor
activity and motor disability. The combined treatment of SKF 80723 or SKF 82958
with quinpirole had no overall effect on locomotor activity or motor disability. 
In contrast, SKF 83959 extended the duration of the quinpirole-induced increase
in locomotor activity with corresponding decreases in motor disability.
Co-administration of high doses of SKF 82958 and more especially SKF 83959 and
SKF 80723, with quinpirole induced hyperexcitability and seizures. Oral activity 
and grooming were unaltered following the co-administration of benzazepine
derivatives with quinpirole. The ability of some benzazepine D1 DA agonists to
prolong the antiparkinsonian effects of quinpirole in the MPTP-treated marmoset
may indicate a role for certain D1 DA agonists in the clinical treatment of PD.
In general, the behavioural responses to the combined administration of
benzazepines with quinpirole in the 6-OHDA lesioned rat and more especially the
MPTP-treated marmoset failed to correlate with their ability to stimulate AC.
These observations further implicate a behavioural role for D1 DA receptors not
linked to AC.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02246103 
PMID: 7770604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

