

3930. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1995 Feb;117(3):287-97.

The differential behavioural effects of benzazepine D1 dopamine agonists with
varying efficacies, co-administered with quinpirole in primate and rodent models 
of Parkinson's disease.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society, Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, U.K.

The effects of co-administration of quinpirole with benzazepine D1 dopamine (DA) 
agonists possessing full/supramaximal (SKF 80723 and SKF 82958), partial (SKF
38393 and SKF 75670) and no efficacies (SKF 83959) in stimulating adenylate
cyclase (AC) were investigated in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's
disease (PD). In rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of the 
medial forebrain bundle, co-administration of SKF 38393
(7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine), SKF 75670 (3-CH3
analogue), SKF 80723 (6-Br analogue), SKF 83959 (6-Cl, 3-CH3, 3'-CH3 analogue)
and SKF 82958 (6-Cl, 3-C3H5 analogue) strongly potentiated the contralateral
circling induced by quinpirole. In MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) treated common marmosets,
administration of quinpirole alone increased locomotor activity and reversed
motor deficits. Grooming and oral activity were unaltered. Co-administration of
SKF 38393 and SKF 75670 inhibited the quinpirole-induced changes in locomotor
activity and motor disability. The combined treatment of SKF 80723 or SKF 82958
with quinpirole had no overall effect on locomotor activity or motor disability. 
In contrast, SKF 83959 extended the duration of the quinpirole-induced increase
in locomotor activity with corresponding decreases in motor disability.
Co-administration of high doses of SKF 82958 and more especially SKF 83959 and
SKF 80723, with quinpirole induced hyperexcitability and seizures. Oral activity 
and grooming were unaltered following the co-administration of benzazepine
derivatives with quinpirole. The ability of some benzazepine D1 DA agonists to
prolong the antiparkinsonian effects of quinpirole in the MPTP-treated marmoset
may indicate a role for certain D1 DA agonists in the clinical treatment of PD.
In general, the behavioural responses to the combined administration of
benzazepines with quinpirole in the 6-OHDA lesioned rat and more especially the
MPTP-treated marmoset failed to correlate with their ability to stimulate AC.
These observations further implicate a behavioural role for D1 DA receptors not
linked to AC.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02246103 
PMID: 7770604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3931. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1995 Feb;117(3):275-86.

Differential anti-parkinsonian effects of benzazepine D1 dopamine agonists with
varying efficacies in the MPTP-treated common marmoset.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Erol DD, Hunter AJ, Smith LA, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's College
London, UK.

In common marmosets systemically treated with MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), the behavioural effects of
benzazepine D1 dopamine (DA) agonists with full/supramaximal (SKF 80723 and SKF
82958), partial (SKF 38393, SKF 75670 and SKF 83565) and no efficacies (SKF
83959) in stimulating adenylate cyclase (AC) activity were investigated. The
benzazepine derivatives, with the exception of SKF 82958 (8 fold D1 DA receptor
selectivity), demonstrated high D1 DA receptor affinity and selectivity
(approximately 100 fold or more) in rat striatal homogenates. Administration of
MPTP in marmosets induced locomotor hypoactivity, rigidity and motor disability. 
SKF 38393 (7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3- benzazepine) and SKF
75670 (3-CH3 analogue) further reduced locomotor activity (by -70 to -80%) and
increased motor disability (by +22 to +67%) in these animals. SKF 83565 (6-Cl,
3-CH3, 3'-Cl analogue) and SKF 82958 (6-Cl, 3-C3H5 analogue) had only a slight
effect on locomotor activity but decreased motor disability at high doses (-46 to
-60%). In contrast, SKF 83959 (6-Cl, 3-CH3, 3'-CH3 analogue) and SKF 80723 (6-Br 
analogue) produced pronounced increases in locomotion (6-10 fold) and a reversal 
in motor disability (by -64 to -77%). Oral activity, consisting largely of
abnormal, 'dyskinetic' tongue protrusions and vacuous chews, was increased in
animals treated with SKF 38393, SKF 83565, SKF 82958 and more especially with SKF
80723 and SKF 83959. Grooming was increased with SKF 82958 and more especially
with SKF 80723 and SKF 83959. In contrast, quinpirole (D2 DA agonist), reversed
the MPTP-induced motor deficits in the marmoset, with no effect on grooming and
oral activity. The present findings further demonstrate the antiparkinsonian
actions of some D1 DA agonists in MPTP-treated primates. However, in general the 
behavioural effects of benzazepines failed to correlate with either their D1 DA
receptor affinity/selectivity or their efficacy in stimulating adenylate cyclase 
(AC) activity. These observations further implicate a behavioural role for D1 DA 
receptors uncoupled to AC and/or a role for extrastriatal D1 DA receptors in
mediating the behavioural response to D1 DA agonists.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02246102 
PMID: 7770603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

