

3931. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1995 Feb;117(3):275-86.

Differential anti-parkinsonian effects of benzazepine D1 dopamine agonists with
varying efficacies in the MPTP-treated common marmoset.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Erol DD, Hunter AJ, Smith LA, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's College
London, UK.

In common marmosets systemically treated with MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), the behavioural effects of
benzazepine D1 dopamine (DA) agonists with full/supramaximal (SKF 80723 and SKF
82958), partial (SKF 38393, SKF 75670 and SKF 83565) and no efficacies (SKF
83959) in stimulating adenylate cyclase (AC) activity were investigated. The
benzazepine derivatives, with the exception of SKF 82958 (8 fold D1 DA receptor
selectivity), demonstrated high D1 DA receptor affinity and selectivity
(approximately 100 fold or more) in rat striatal homogenates. Administration of
MPTP in marmosets induced locomotor hypoactivity, rigidity and motor disability. 
SKF 38393 (7,8-dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3- benzazepine) and SKF
75670 (3-CH3 analogue) further reduced locomotor activity (by -70 to -80%) and
increased motor disability (by +22 to +67%) in these animals. SKF 83565 (6-Cl,
3-CH3, 3'-Cl analogue) and SKF 82958 (6-Cl, 3-C3H5 analogue) had only a slight
effect on locomotor activity but decreased motor disability at high doses (-46 to
-60%). In contrast, SKF 83959 (6-Cl, 3-CH3, 3'-CH3 analogue) and SKF 80723 (6-Br 
analogue) produced pronounced increases in locomotion (6-10 fold) and a reversal 
in motor disability (by -64 to -77%). Oral activity, consisting largely of
abnormal, 'dyskinetic' tongue protrusions and vacuous chews, was increased in
animals treated with SKF 38393, SKF 83565, SKF 82958 and more especially with SKF
80723 and SKF 83959. Grooming was increased with SKF 82958 and more especially
with SKF 80723 and SKF 83959. In contrast, quinpirole (D2 DA agonist), reversed
the MPTP-induced motor deficits in the marmoset, with no effect on grooming and
oral activity. The present findings further demonstrate the antiparkinsonian
actions of some D1 DA agonists in MPTP-treated primates. However, in general the 
behavioural effects of benzazepines failed to correlate with either their D1 DA
receptor affinity/selectivity or their efficacy in stimulating adenylate cyclase 
(AC) activity. These observations further implicate a behavioural role for D1 DA 
receptors uncoupled to AC and/or a role for extrastriatal D1 DA receptors in
mediating the behavioural response to D1 DA agonists.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02246102 
PMID: 7770603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3932. Mol Cell Probes. 1995 Feb;9(1):1-8.

Molecular identification of two distinct hemagglutinin types of measles virus by 
polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism
(PCR-RFLP).

Saito H(1), Nakagomi O, Morita M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Akita Prefectural Institute of Public Health,
Japan.

Contemporary isolates of measles virus, characterized by their inability to
hemagglutinate, have been shown to possess a hemagglutinin type distinct from
that of classical strains such as the Edmonston strain in that there is a new
glycosylation site at amino acid residue 416. This change abolishes a Sau3Al site
that is found in the corresponding position of the hemagglutination-positive
classical strains. This molecular information prompted us to develop a
restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assay that is capable of
distinguishing these two distinct hemagglutinin types. The assay consists of the 
amplification of a 349-bp segment of the hemagglutinin gene by reverse
transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction and Sau3Al digestion of
this amplification product. The resulting two distinct RFLP patterns identified
the hemagglutinin types with regard to the presence or absence of the potential
new glycosylation site. This assay was applied to determine the relative
frequencies over a 28-year period of these two hemagglutinin types present in the
archival acute serum specimens taken from patients with measles. This study
revealed that strains carrying the classical hemagglutinin type predominated
until the early 1980s when it became completely replaced with strains possessing 
the contemporary hemagglutinin type. Because of its direct applicability to the
clinical specimens avoiding selection bias during cell-culture adaptation, this
assay provides a valuable asset in both clinical laboratory and epidemiological
settings.

DOI: 10.1016/s0890-8508(95)90902-8 
PMID: 7760855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

