

3933. J Endocrinol. 1995 Feb;144(2):201-8.

Induced luteal regression: differential effects on follicular and luteal
inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs in the marmoset monkey.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF, Whitelaw PF, Hillier SG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, University of Edinburgh, UK.

During the luteal phase of the primate ovulatory cycle the predominant
inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs produced by the corpus luteum and antral follicles 
are those for the alpha- and beta B-subunits respectively. The control of
expression of these mRNAs and the resultant nature of the endocrine and paracrine
signals which they may potentially generate has yet to be elucidated.
Inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs may have a role in both the paracrine regulation of
follicular and luteal function and modulation of FSH secretion. The aim of this
study was to investigate the expression of inhibin/activin subunit mRNAs
following luteal regression induced by either withdrawal of LH support (GnRH
antagonist treatment), or by a direct inhibitory action (prostaglandin
administration). Marmoset monkeys with regular ovulatory cycles were treated on
day 8 and 9 of the luteal phase with either GnRH antagonist, prostaglandin or
vehicle (n = 3 per group). Ovaries were studied 48 h after onset of treatment (on
day 10 of the luteal phase) by hybridizing frozen tissue sections with
radiolabelled riboprobes specific to the inhibin/activin alpha-, beta A- and beta
B-subunit mRNAs. After autoradiographic exposure, grain concentrations were
quantified by image analysis. In corpora lutea from control marmosets there was
high expression of alpha-mRNA with only marginal expression of beta B-mRNA.
Corpora lutea in animals treated with GnRH antagonist or prostaglandin had
markedly reduced expression of alpha-mRNA while beta B-mRNA was unchanged. In
controls, all healthy antral follicles exhibited a high level of expression of
beta B-mRNA in the granulosa cells and low expression of alpha-mRNA in theca
cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1440201 
PMID: 7706973  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3934. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1995 Feb;117(4):403-12.

Selective dopamine antagonist pretreatment on the antiparkinsonian effects of
benzazepine D1 dopamine agonists in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's
disease--the differential effects of D1 dopamine antagonists in the primate.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, UK.

In rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the medial
forebrain bundle, pretreatment with the D1 DA antagonists, SCH 23390
(7-chloro-8-hydroxy-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-1-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin e) and
A66359 (1- 2-bromo-4,5-dimethoxybenzyl]-7-hydroxy-6-methoxy-2-methyl- 1,2,3,4
tetrahydroisoquinoline), but not the D2 DA antagonist raclopride inhibited the
contralateral circling induced by the benzazepine D1 DA agonists SKF 38393 (7-H, 
3-H analogue of SCH 23390), SKF 80723 (7-H, 3-H, 6-Br analogue) and SKF 83959
(7-H, 6-Cl, 3'-CH3 analogue). In MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) treated common marmosets,
administration of SKF 80723 and SKF 83959 increased locomotor activity and
reversed the motor disability. Grooming and oral activities were also increased. 
Pretreatment with SCH 23390 and A66359 inhibited all the behavioural changes
induced by both D1 DA agonists. In general, higher doses of A66359 and more
especially SCH 23390 were needed to inhibit SKF 83959 and SKF 80723 induced
increases in oral activity and grooming than locomotor activity. Raclopride
pretreatment did not affect SKF 83959 and SKF 80723 induced oral activity and
grooming, though it reduced the duration of the locomotor changes induced by the 
D1 DA agonists. These findings demonstrate that the behavioural effects of
benzazepine D1 DA agonists in the 6-OHDA lesioned rat and MPTP-treated marmoset
are mediated by D1 DA receptor sites, although in the primate, stimulation of D2 
DA receptors by endogenous DA may be necessary in facilitating the
antiparkinsonian effects of D1 DA agonists. The differential sensitivities of
locomotor/motor disability and oral/grooming behaviours to antagonism by D1 DA
antagonists may indicate the involvement of multiple D1 DA receptor subtypes in
mediating benzazepine D1 DA agonist induced behaviours in the MPTP-treated
marmoset.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02246211 
PMID: 7604140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

