

3935. Rev Bras Biol. 1995 Feb;55(1):105-10.

Density and habitat use of primates at an Atlantic forest reserve of southeastern
Brazil.

Chiarello AG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, England.

About 58.3 km of transects were surveyed throughout 21,800 ha of an Atlantic
forest reserve of southeastern Brazil, yielding habitat preference data and
density estimates for three of the four primate species present. The densities
were calculated using the "Fourier Series Estimator" and were 10.5, 2.2 and 1.2
groups/km2 for Callithrix geoffroyi, Cebus apella robustus and Callicebus
personatus personatus, respectively. Alouatta fusca fusca although present, was
not seen during the survey. C. geoffroyi was spotted predominantly in the low
strata of secondary forests while C. a. robustus preferred the higher strata of
primary forests. The encounters with C. p. personatus were rarer but the species 
seems to occur in the middle strata of both primary and secondary forests. Local 
populations were estimated at 1644, 344 and 181 groups for these three species,
respectively. With the exception of A. f. fusca which seems to occur at extremely
low numbers, the densities for the other species are within the range of reported
values for other species of these genera.


PMID: 7569145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3936. Behav Brain Res. 1995 Jan 23;66(1-2):13-20.

Structural dynamics of synapses and synaptic components.

Wolff JR(1), Laskawi R, Spatz WB, Missler M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Learning and memory formation are apparently based on cascades of molecular and
cellular processes with increasing time constants (ms to days and weeks), but
even the most long-lasting effects are transient. Memory traces may permanently
modify the behavior (activity patterns, gene expression) of neurons and neuronal 
networks. Therefore the question is raised whether our current view on the
stability of synapses under normal conditions is tenable. Evidence is reviewed
suggesting that as direct or indirect effects of modifications in bioelectrical
activity and chemical trophicity, synapses may be remodeled and removed within
days and weeks, and possibly within hours. Accordingly, species-specific
connectivity patterns are not restricted to the standard architecture of the CNS,
but (morpho-)genetics allow for a considerable number of alternative wiring
patterns, which appear under unusual conditions during ontogenesis and in
adulthood. Our present knowledge suggests that, rather than the formation of
synapses, they are a selective process. Until now there is no direct method of
measuring either synaptic reorganization or the average life span of synapses.
Specific cases, however, allow to estimate synapse turnover during ontogenesis,
at its lowest possible level. Such data suggest that each synapse is on average
remodeled or replaced several to many times during normal developmental, e.g. in 
the cerebral cortex of Marmoset monkeys at the very least 5 to 10 times
(corresponding to 250 million synapses eliminated per hour in area 17!). It is
discussed how the consequences of synapse turnover could be utilized by learning 
processes. Conclusions are followed by an outlook.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-4328(94)00118-y 
PMID: 7755883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

