

3936. Behav Brain Res. 1995 Jan 23;66(1-2):13-20.

Structural dynamics of synapses and synaptic components.

Wolff JR(1), Laskawi R, Spatz WB, Missler M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Learning and memory formation are apparently based on cascades of molecular and
cellular processes with increasing time constants (ms to days and weeks), but
even the most long-lasting effects are transient. Memory traces may permanently
modify the behavior (activity patterns, gene expression) of neurons and neuronal 
networks. Therefore the question is raised whether our current view on the
stability of synapses under normal conditions is tenable. Evidence is reviewed
suggesting that as direct or indirect effects of modifications in bioelectrical
activity and chemical trophicity, synapses may be remodeled and removed within
days and weeks, and possibly within hours. Accordingly, species-specific
connectivity patterns are not restricted to the standard architecture of the CNS,
but (morpho-)genetics allow for a considerable number of alternative wiring
patterns, which appear under unusual conditions during ontogenesis and in
adulthood. Our present knowledge suggests that, rather than the formation of
synapses, they are a selective process. Until now there is no direct method of
measuring either synaptic reorganization or the average life span of synapses.
Specific cases, however, allow to estimate synapse turnover during ontogenesis,
at its lowest possible level. Such data suggest that each synapse is on average
remodeled or replaced several to many times during normal developmental, e.g. in 
the cerebral cortex of Marmoset monkeys at the very least 5 to 10 times
(corresponding to 250 million synapses eliminated per hour in area 17!). It is
discussed how the consequences of synapse turnover could be utilized by learning 
processes. Conclusions are followed by an outlook.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-4328(94)00118-y 
PMID: 7755883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3937. Int J Cancer. 1995 Jan 3;60(1):65-72.

Burkitt's lymphoma cells are resistant to programmed cell death in the presence
of the Epstein-Barr virus latent antigen EBNA-4.

Silins SL(1), Sculley TB.

Author information: 
(1)Bancroft Centre, Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane,
Australia.

Group I Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cells display a
surface phenotype characteristic of germinal centre B cells and readily undergo
apoptosis in response to a variety of stimuli, including serum deprivation.
Activation of EBV latent gene expression has been shown to increase the survival 
of these tumour cells by blocking programmed cell death. To investigate the
nature of this protection, we assessed the function of the EBV latent EBNA-4 gene
in a group I lymphoma line, dG75. Group I BL cells induced to undergo apoptosis
in response to serum starvation were protected in the presence of EBNA-4 protein.
A possible factor underlying this EBNA-4-associated survival was increased
expression of the oncoprotein bcl-2, a known repressor of cell death. Together
these data suggest that EBNA-4 plays an important role in the regulation of
programmed cell death in BL tumour cells.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910600110 
PMID: 7814154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

