

3937. Int J Cancer. 1995 Jan 3;60(1):65-72.

Burkitt's lymphoma cells are resistant to programmed cell death in the presence
of the Epstein-Barr virus latent antigen EBNA-4.

Silins SL(1), Sculley TB.

Author information: 
(1)Bancroft Centre, Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane,
Australia.

Group I Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cells display a
surface phenotype characteristic of germinal centre B cells and readily undergo
apoptosis in response to a variety of stimuli, including serum deprivation.
Activation of EBV latent gene expression has been shown to increase the survival 
of these tumour cells by blocking programmed cell death. To investigate the
nature of this protection, we assessed the function of the EBV latent EBNA-4 gene
in a group I lymphoma line, dG75. Group I BL cells induced to undergo apoptosis
in response to serum starvation were protected in the presence of EBNA-4 protein.
A possible factor underlying this EBNA-4-associated survival was increased
expression of the oncoprotein bcl-2, a known repressor of cell death. Together
these data suggest that EBNA-4 plays an important role in the regulation of
programmed cell death in BL tumour cells.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910600110 
PMID: 7814154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3938. Am J Primatol. 1995;36(4):259-275. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350360402.

Use of ultrasound to monitor prenatal growth and development in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jaquish CE(1), Toal RL(2), Tardif SD(3), Carson RL(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San
Antonio, Texas.
(2)Department of Rural Practice, University of Tennessee College of Veterinary
Medicine, Knoxville, Tennessee.
(3)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee.
(4)Marmoset Research Center, University of Tennessee Medical Center, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee.

The increasing use of non-human primates to study fetal development and neonatal 
management has necessitated the availability of fetuses of known gestational
history. In this study, prenatal development and growth were investigated in the 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using ultrasound. The objectives of this
study were: (1) to determine the accuracy of ultrasound for monitoring prenatal
growth and development in common marmosets, (2) to determine if litter size
influences prenatal growth trajectories, and (3) to assess growth discordancy
among litter mates. Fifty pregnancies were monitored longitudinally using
real-time abdominal sonography. During each examination the number of fetuses was
recorded, and crown-rump length (CRL) and biparietal diameter (BPD) were
measured. The results indicate that ultrasound is a reliable method for
observation of gross morphological changes during prenatal development in this
species. Measures of CRL and BPD taken early in gestation using ultrasound were
in agreement with those from gross specimens. Triplets were significantly (P <
0.05) smaller than twins for both BPD and CRL. No significant relationship was
found between litter size and within litter variation in CRL or BPD. This study
is the first longitudinal investigation of prenatal growth and development in C. 
jacchus. The observations from this study will be of use for determining
approximate gestational age of fetuses, as well as providing guidelines for
routine monitoring of pregnancy in this species. © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350360402 
PMID: 31924098 

