

3938. Am J Primatol. 1995;36(4):259-275. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350360402.

Use of ultrasound to monitor prenatal growth and development in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jaquish CE(1), Toal RL(2), Tardif SD(3), Carson RL(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San
Antonio, Texas.
(2)Department of Rural Practice, University of Tennessee College of Veterinary
Medicine, Knoxville, Tennessee.
(3)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee.
(4)Marmoset Research Center, University of Tennessee Medical Center, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee.

The increasing use of non-human primates to study fetal development and neonatal 
management has necessitated the availability of fetuses of known gestational
history. In this study, prenatal development and growth were investigated in the 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using ultrasound. The objectives of this
study were: (1) to determine the accuracy of ultrasound for monitoring prenatal
growth and development in common marmosets, (2) to determine if litter size
influences prenatal growth trajectories, and (3) to assess growth discordancy
among litter mates. Fifty pregnancies were monitored longitudinally using
real-time abdominal sonography. During each examination the number of fetuses was
recorded, and crown-rump length (CRL) and biparietal diameter (BPD) were
measured. The results indicate that ultrasound is a reliable method for
observation of gross morphological changes during prenatal development in this
species. Measures of CRL and BPD taken early in gestation using ultrasound were
in agreement with those from gross specimens. Triplets were significantly (P <
0.05) smaller than twins for both BPD and CRL. No significant relationship was
found between litter size and within litter variation in CRL or BPD. This study
is the first longitudinal investigation of prenatal growth and development in C. 
jacchus. The observations from this study will be of use for determining
approximate gestational age of fetuses, as well as providing guidelines for
routine monitoring of pregnancy in this species. © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350360402 
PMID: 31924098 


3939. Am J Primatol. 1995;36(3):185-200. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350360303.

Development of heterosexual relationships in wied's black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix kuhli).

Schaffner CM(1), Shepherd RE(1), Santos CV(1)(2), French JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Facility, Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska at Omaha.
(2)Departmento Psicologia Experimental, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil.

In tamarins and marmosets, long-term stable sociosexual relationships are formed 
between heterosexual adults, but these "monogamous" relationships are often
formed in groups that contain multiple adults of both sexes. The patterning of
interactions during pair formation may therefore be shaped by this demographic
profile. We evaluated the development of sociosexual relationships in six captive
pairs of Wied's black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli) during the 80 days 
from the initial day of pairing. Social behavior, sexual behavior and activity
profiles were recorded. Social behaviors, including allogrooming, grooming
solicitation, and intragroup monitoring calls, increased across the four 20-day
time blocks. Males were more responsible than females for maintaining intrapair
proximity during the first 40 days of pairing. Females and males were equally
responsible for intrapair proximity maintenance after this time. The highest
rates of sexual behavior, including copulation and proceptive open mouth
displays, occurred upon pairing and then decreased non-significantly over time.
The results indicate that sexual relationships in callitrichid primates are not
dependent on the prior existence of a social relationship between males and
females. Higher rates of copulation, greater male responsibility for proximity
maintenance, and male initiative in sexual interactions early in pairing are
consistent with a male reproductive strategy in which male-male competition may
be common. © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350360303 
PMID: 31924092 

