

3939. Am J Primatol. 1995;36(3):185-200. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350360303.

Development of heterosexual relationships in wied's black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix kuhli).

Schaffner CM(1), Shepherd RE(1), Santos CV(1)(2), French JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Facility, Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska at Omaha.
(2)Departmento Psicologia Experimental, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil.

In tamarins and marmosets, long-term stable sociosexual relationships are formed 
between heterosexual adults, but these "monogamous" relationships are often
formed in groups that contain multiple adults of both sexes. The patterning of
interactions during pair formation may therefore be shaped by this demographic
profile. We evaluated the development of sociosexual relationships in six captive
pairs of Wied's black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli) during the 80 days 
from the initial day of pairing. Social behavior, sexual behavior and activity
profiles were recorded. Social behaviors, including allogrooming, grooming
solicitation, and intragroup monitoring calls, increased across the four 20-day
time blocks. Males were more responsible than females for maintaining intrapair
proximity during the first 40 days of pairing. Females and males were equally
responsible for intrapair proximity maintenance after this time. The highest
rates of sexual behavior, including copulation and proceptive open mouth
displays, occurred upon pairing and then decreased non-significantly over time.
The results indicate that sexual relationships in callitrichid primates are not
dependent on the prior existence of a social relationship between males and
females. Higher rates of copulation, greater male responsibility for proximity
maintenance, and male initiative in sexual interactions early in pairing are
consistent with a male reproductive strategy in which male-male competition may
be common. © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350360303 
PMID: 31924092 


3940. Am J Primatol. 1995;36(1):1-13. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350360102.

Detection of pregnancy and monitoring patterns of uterine and fetal growth in the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) by real-time ultrasonography.

Oerke AK(1), Einspanier A(1), Hodges JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen, Germany.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the potential of real-time
ultrasonography for detecting and monitoring pregnancy in the common marmoset.
Ultrasound was performed transabdominally on unsedated females using a 7.5 MHz
linear or intraoperative sector probe. Pregnancies were timed using progesterone 
measurements in twice weekly blood samples to determine the day of ovulation.
Eight pregnancies were examined three times a week until day 30, twice a week
until day 80, and once a week until birth. Detection of pregnancy was possible on
day 15, on average, by the appearance of a double endometrial echo indicating
fluid accumulation in the uterus. The uterine lumen thus formed was first
measurable on day 21 on average. Diameter of the pregnant uterus was
significantly greater than that of the nonpregnant organ by day 38. Thereafter,
the dimensions of uterus and uterine lumen showed a similar pattern of growth
until day 75, when measurements became inaccurate due to increasing uterine
pliability. Embryonic development was characterized by the initial expansion of
the gestation sacs and the appearance of individual embryos by day 33. Detection 
of heart beat at approximately day 54 allowed confirmation of number and
viability of the embryos. With the visualization of the skulls by day 82, it was 
possible to determine fetal position and to monitor fetal growth by measurement
of the biparietal diameter. All pregnancies were of normal length (140-145 days) 
resulting in viable offspring. It can be concluded that ultrasonography is
suitable for detecting and monitoring pregnancy in the marmoset monkey and as a
non-invasive method, has the potential for being routinely used in this and other
species of Callitrichidae. © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1995 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350360102 
PMID: 31924086 

