

3941. Am J Primatol. 1995;35(4):311-317. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350350407.

Group size, composition, and reproductive success in wild common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Koenig A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anthropology, University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Data from published sources about size and composition of wild common marmoset
groups (Callithrix jacchus) were analyzed to see if the number of juveniles in a 
group is closely related to the number of other group members. Mean group size
was 8.7 members including 4.4 adults (1.8 females, 2.5 males), 2.9 subadults, and
1.4 juveniles. The number of juveniles was significantly positively correlated to
the number of adult males. Groups with one or two adult males had significantly
fewer juveniles (mean: 1:1 juveniles) than groups containing more than two adult 
males (mean: 2.0 juveniles). Apart from a different number of subadults, results 
showed obvious similarities between common marmosets and tamarins of the genus
Saguinus in size and composition of subgroups of adults as well as the key role
of adult males in mediating the reproductive success of a breeding female. Common
marmoset females seem to gain direct fitness benefits in increased reproductive
success from the presence of a larger number of adult males. Whether or not other
group members get fitness benefits depends on the reproductive strategy of adult 
males (monogamy vs. polyandry), their kinship, and on the genetic relationship of
nonbreeders to the offspring of the breeding female. © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1995 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350350407 
PMID: 31924081 


3942. Princess Takamatsu Symp. 1995;23:134-44.

Enzymatic studies of the activation of heterocyclic food mutagens in man.

Boobis AR(1), Gooderham NJ, Rich KJ, Zhao K, Edwards RJ, Murray BP, Lynch AM,
Murray S, Davies DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
London, England.

2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) and
2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) are amongst the most
abundant of the heterocyclic aromatic amines formed during the cooking of beef.
Both compounds are genotoxic and carcinogenic in rodents. These effects are
manifested only after activation of the amines by P450. Human liver is very
active at converting these amines to mutagenic products. Studies in vitro have
established that, for both amines, mutagenicity with human liver microsomes is
entirely via the N-hydroxylamine, essentially the only oxidation product of
either amine. Both N-hydroxylation and mutagenicity of the amines can be almost
completely inhibited by furafylline, a potent and highly selective inhibitor of
CYP1A2 in man. These data, together with the work of others, show that the
N-hydroxylation and hence the mutagenicity of both MeIQx and PhIP in man is
catalyzed almost exclusively by CYP1A2. Liver from cynomolgus monkeys, unlike
that from humans and marmosets, is very poor at activating MeIQx or PhIP to
mutagenic products. Studies with anti-peptide antibodies of defined specificity
revealed that this is due to the absence of CYP1A2, suggesting that this species 
should not be used to assess the possible risk posed to man by these amines. The 
marmoset would be a better species for this purpose.


PMID: 8844804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

