

3945. J Neural Transm Gen Sect. 1995;101(1-3):65-82.

Short and long-term changes in cerebral [14C]-2-deoxyglucose uptake in the
MPTP-treated marmoset: relationship to locomotor activity.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Milkowski NA, Smith LA, Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, United Kingdom.

The "short-term" (0.7 +/- 0.1 months post-MPTP) and "long-term" effects (36.7 +/-
4.4 months) of MPTP treatment on motor behaviour and [14C]-2DG uptake were
investigated in the common marmoset. The subcutaneous administration of MPTP
greatly reduced locomotor activity (-94% with respect to controls) and induced
motor disability in the "short-term" MPTP-treated marmoset group. In the
"long-term" MPTP group, MPTP treatment did not significantly affect locomotor
activity (-27% with respect to controls) and there was partial recovery of motor 
disability. In the "short-term" MPTP group, there were increases in [14C]-2DG
uptake in the GPl (+31 to +37%), SNc (+34 to +42%), VTA (+35%), LC (+23%), PPN
(+19%) and in the VA (+19%), VL (+20%) and AM (+17%) thalamic nuclei. [14C]-2DG
uptake was decreased in the STN (-15%). In the "long-term" MPTP group, [14C]-2DG 
uptake was increased in the GPl (+18%), SNc (+27%), VTA (+25%), PPN (+19%),
ventral caudate nucleus (+18 to +23%), NAc (+22%), F.Ctx (+18%) and in the VA
(+34%), VL (+28%), AV (+33%) and AM (+24%) thalamic nuclei. [14C]-2DG uptake was 
unchanged in the STN. The increase in metabolic activity of the surviving DA
neurones and/or the reactive gliosis may account for the initial increase in
[14C]-2DG uptake in the SNc and VTA. On the other hand, in the "long-term"
MPTP-treated animals the increase in [14C]-2DG uptake in the SNc (though less
than in the "short-term" MPTP group), ventral caudate and NAc may reflect the
regenerative changes in the dopaminergic system in these areas. Despite the
behavioural recovery, [14C]-2DG uptake remained elevated in the target areas for 
medial pallidal output (the thalamic nuclei and PPN). However, the attenuation of
the changes in [14C]-2DG uptake in the GPl and STN of "long-term" MPTP-treated
marmosets suggest that the striato-GPl and GPl-STN outputs closely reflect motor 
function in this primate model of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01271546 
PMID: 8695058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3946. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1995;64(4):180-91.

Hand, mouth and eye preferences in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Hook-Costigan MA(1), Rogers LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of New England, Armidale, N.S.W.,
Australia.

Motor and sensory preferences were measured for 8 common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). Three types of motor function were examined: spontaneous feeding, mouth
use when chewing and visuospatial reaching. Eye preference was used as an index
of sensory lateralization. The marmosets displayed individual preferences for the
performance of the motor tasks, but no group biases were revealed. Correlations
between preferences displayed on the motor tests suggest that one hemisphere may 
control spontaneous feeding and lateralized mouth use while the other controls
visuospatial reaching, but no consistent preference was present. In an eye
preference test, 7 subjects displayed right-eye preferences, suggesting
hemispheric specialisation for this function.

DOI: 10.1159/000156851 
PMID: 8613126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

