

3951. Life Sci. 1995;56(6):407-20.

Thalidomide and the immune system. 4. Down-regulation of the CD26 receptor,
probably involved in the binding of HIV components to T cells in primates.

Neubert R(1), Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center, Free University Berlin, Germany.

Thalidomide (Thd) is capable of down-regulating the CD26 receptor on CD4+
lymphocytes after treatment of healthy volunteers. Similar effects are observed
when marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are treated with Thd. The Ta1 epitope of the 
CD26 receptor has recently been shown to bind the HIV-1 Tat trans-activating
protein, and CD26 has also been suggested to be a coreceptor for the binding of
the V3 loop of the gp120 HIV envelope protein. This might provide a hint for
possible therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(94)00906-6 
PMID: 7830502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3952. Exp Brain Res. 1995;103(3):355-71.

A comparison of the behavioural effects of embryonic nigral grafts in the caudate
nucleus and in the putamen of marmosets with unilateral 6-OHDA lesions.

Annett LE(1), Torres EM, Ridley RM, Baker HF, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

The behaviour of marmosets with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the
nigrostriatal bundle and grafts of embryonic mesencephalon in either the caudate 
nucleus or the putamen was compared with that of lesion-alone and unoperated
controls. The grafts comprised injections of cell suspensions prepared from
marmoset ventral mesencephalon (i.e. allografts) targeted at four sites either
entirely within the caudate nucleus or entirely within the putamen. Behavioural
tests, including measures of amphetamine-induced rotation, neglect and use of
each arm to retrieve food from inside tubes, were given before and after the
6-hydroxydopamine lesion and at regular intervals for 6 months after
transplantation surgery. Grafts in the caudate nucleus reduced the ipsilateral
rotation induced by amphetamine, whereas grafts in the putamen did not. Despite
the absence of an effect on rotation, the putamen grafts were effective in
reducing lesion-induced deficits on the task in which the marmosets were required
to reach into tubes. In this latter task, the caudate grafts were also effective 
when the monkeys were given a free choice of which hand to use. However, when
constrained to use the hand contralateral to the lesion and graft, the
performance of the marmosets with caudate grafts was not significantly improved
compared with that of lesion-alone controls. Neither the grafts in the caudate
nucleus nor the grafts in the putamen abolished the contralateral somatosensory
neglect induced by the lesion, although there was a trend for the marmosets with 
putamen grafts to contact the label on the contralateral side more quickly than
those with caudate grafts or the lesion-alone controls. These results demonstrate
that the location of embryonic nigral grafts within the primate striatum
influences the profile of functional recovery.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00241495 
PMID: 7789442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

