

3952. Exp Brain Res. 1995;103(3):355-71.

A comparison of the behavioural effects of embryonic nigral grafts in the caudate
nucleus and in the putamen of marmosets with unilateral 6-OHDA lesions.

Annett LE(1), Torres EM, Ridley RM, Baker HF, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

The behaviour of marmosets with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the
nigrostriatal bundle and grafts of embryonic mesencephalon in either the caudate 
nucleus or the putamen was compared with that of lesion-alone and unoperated
controls. The grafts comprised injections of cell suspensions prepared from
marmoset ventral mesencephalon (i.e. allografts) targeted at four sites either
entirely within the caudate nucleus or entirely within the putamen. Behavioural
tests, including measures of amphetamine-induced rotation, neglect and use of
each arm to retrieve food from inside tubes, were given before and after the
6-hydroxydopamine lesion and at regular intervals for 6 months after
transplantation surgery. Grafts in the caudate nucleus reduced the ipsilateral
rotation induced by amphetamine, whereas grafts in the putamen did not. Despite
the absence of an effect on rotation, the putamen grafts were effective in
reducing lesion-induced deficits on the task in which the marmosets were required
to reach into tubes. In this latter task, the caudate grafts were also effective 
when the monkeys were given a free choice of which hand to use. However, when
constrained to use the hand contralateral to the lesion and graft, the
performance of the marmosets with caudate grafts was not significantly improved
compared with that of lesion-alone controls. Neither the grafts in the caudate
nucleus nor the grafts in the putamen abolished the contralateral somatosensory
neglect induced by the lesion, although there was a trend for the marmosets with 
putamen grafts to contact the label on the contralateral side more quickly than
those with caudate grafts or the lesion-alone controls. These results demonstrate
that the location of embryonic nigral grafts within the primate striatum
influences the profile of functional recovery.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00241495 
PMID: 7789442  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3953. Nephron. 1995;69(3):286-92.

Ultrastructural and histochemical mesangial alterations in Callitrichid IgM
nephropathy (primates: platyrrhina).

Brack M(1), Weber M.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The ultrastructural and histochemical alterations during different stages of
spontaneously occurring IgM nephropathy in Callitrichidae were determined.
Callitrichid IgM nephropathy was classified according to the light microscopic
sequence of the mesangial lesions in the individual glomeruli. In minimal disease
and axial proliferation mesangial cells and mesangial matrix were symmetrically
increased, whereas in panmesangial disease matrix deposition exceeded the
cellular responses. However, ultrastructural matrix changes such as deposition of
electron-dense particles, dilatation of the matrix channel system, and slightly
increased collagen fiber expression were present also in minimal disease and
axial proliferation. Histochemically collagen I and III phenotypes could only be 
verified in glomerular sclerosis, at that time accompanied by diminution of
collagen IV. The mesangial cellular lesions, in contrast, were very limited. The 
numerical increase in mesangial cells was associated with increased bleb
formation and increased heterolysosome contents, whereas the amount of
microfilaments was never increased.

DOI: 10.1159/000188472 
PMID: 7753262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

