

3954. Hum Exp Toxicol. 1995 Jan;14(1):146-7.

Value of non-human primate data.

Stahlmann R(1), Neubert R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Germany.

DOI: 10.1177/096032719501400137 
PMID: 7748606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3955. Brain Res Bull. 1995;36(3):301-7.

Behavioral and neurochemical consequences of ibotenic acid lesion in the
subthalamic nucleus of the common marmoset.

Andrén PE(1), Levin ED, Liminga U, Gunne L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry at Ulleråker, Uppsala University, Sweden.

Five marmosets were unilaterally lesioned within the subthalamic nucleus (STN) by
injection of 10 micrograms ibotenic acid. Seven marmosets served as saline
injected controls. The lesioned marmosets showed an increased locomotor activity,
occasional tongue protrusions, posture asymmetry, and abnormal movements of the
contralateral legs and arms. The animals were sacrificed 21 days after the
ibotenic acid injection and markers of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), dopamine
(DA), and acetylcholine were studied in a variety brain regions. There was a
bilateral increase in the activity of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) in the
caudate, putamen, globus pallidus, superior colliculus, and the ventral
anterior/ventral lateral (VA/VL) thalamus, whereas GABA concentrations were only 
increased ipsilaterally in the ventral posterior
medial/centromedial/parafasciculus (VPM/CM/Pf) complex of the thalamus. Tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH) activity was bilaterally increased in the medial segment of
globus pallidus and nucleus accumbens. However, there were also changes
restricted to the side contralateral to the lesion. TH activity and DA
concentrations were increased contralateral to the lesion in the putamen. Choline
acetyltransferase (CAT) activity was bilaterally increased in the medial segment 
of globus pallidus and hypothalamus. The ibotenic acid induced STN-lesion in the 
marmoset, thus, seemed to cause a widespread bilateral activation of neurons
within the basal ganglia.

DOI: 10.1016/0361-9230(94)00206-g 
PMID: 7697384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

