

3955. Brain Res Bull. 1995;36(3):301-7.

Behavioral and neurochemical consequences of ibotenic acid lesion in the
subthalamic nucleus of the common marmoset.

Andrén PE(1), Levin ED, Liminga U, Gunne L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry at Ulleråker, Uppsala University, Sweden.

Five marmosets were unilaterally lesioned within the subthalamic nucleus (STN) by
injection of 10 micrograms ibotenic acid. Seven marmosets served as saline
injected controls. The lesioned marmosets showed an increased locomotor activity,
occasional tongue protrusions, posture asymmetry, and abnormal movements of the
contralateral legs and arms. The animals were sacrificed 21 days after the
ibotenic acid injection and markers of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), dopamine
(DA), and acetylcholine were studied in a variety brain regions. There was a
bilateral increase in the activity of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) in the
caudate, putamen, globus pallidus, superior colliculus, and the ventral
anterior/ventral lateral (VA/VL) thalamus, whereas GABA concentrations were only 
increased ipsilaterally in the ventral posterior
medial/centromedial/parafasciculus (VPM/CM/Pf) complex of the thalamus. Tyrosine 
hydroxylase (TH) activity was bilaterally increased in the medial segment of
globus pallidus and nucleus accumbens. However, there were also changes
restricted to the side contralateral to the lesion. TH activity and DA
concentrations were increased contralateral to the lesion in the putamen. Choline
acetyltransferase (CAT) activity was bilaterally increased in the medial segment 
of globus pallidus and hypothalamus. The ibotenic acid induced STN-lesion in the 
marmoset, thus, seemed to cause a widespread bilateral activation of neurons
within the basal ganglia.

DOI: 10.1016/0361-9230(94)00206-g 
PMID: 7697384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3956. J Med Vet Mycol. 1995 Jan-Feb;33(1):39-42.

Delayed hypersensitivity test with paracoccidioidin in captive Latin American
wild mammals.

Costa EO(1), Diniz LS, Netto CF, Arruda C, Dagli ML.

Author information: 
(1)Fac. Med. Veterinária, Univ. São Paulo, Dep. Medicina Preventiva e Saúde
Animal, Brazil.

The aim of this investigation was to study epidemiological aspects of
paracoccidioidomycosis, the main endemic systemic mycosis in Brazil. This study
was carried out using the paracoccidioidin delayed hypersensitivity test in 96
Latin American wild mammals, including 49 arboreal animals (primates): 33 Cebus
apella (weeping-capuchin), 16 Callithrix jacchus (marmoset); and 47 terrestrial
animals (carnivora): 37 Nasua nasua (coatimundi), and 10 Felidae [Panthera onca
(jaguar), Felis paradalis (ocelot), Felis wiedii (margay), Felis tigrina (wild
cat) and Felis geoffroyi (wild cat)], taking their behaviour and habitat into
consideration. When the levels of paracoccidiodin positive reactions were
examined, terrestrial animals showed significantly higher rates (82.98%) while
arboreal animals showed lower reactivity (22.45%) (P < 0.01). The data are
relevant because there are quite a few papers regarding domestic and wild animals
and this study may help the understanding of some aspects of the parasite
ecology. These results point to the soil as the most probable reservoir of
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, and this is possibly the ecological niche of the
saprophytic phase in nature.

DOI: 10.1080/02681219580000081 
PMID: 7650577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

