

3956. J Med Vet Mycol. 1995 Jan-Feb;33(1):39-42.

Delayed hypersensitivity test with paracoccidioidin in captive Latin American
wild mammals.

Costa EO(1), Diniz LS, Netto CF, Arruda C, Dagli ML.

Author information: 
(1)Fac. Med. Veterinária, Univ. São Paulo, Dep. Medicina Preventiva e Saúde
Animal, Brazil.

The aim of this investigation was to study epidemiological aspects of
paracoccidioidomycosis, the main endemic systemic mycosis in Brazil. This study
was carried out using the paracoccidioidin delayed hypersensitivity test in 96
Latin American wild mammals, including 49 arboreal animals (primates): 33 Cebus
apella (weeping-capuchin), 16 Callithrix jacchus (marmoset); and 47 terrestrial
animals (carnivora): 37 Nasua nasua (coatimundi), and 10 Felidae [Panthera onca
(jaguar), Felis paradalis (ocelot), Felis wiedii (margay), Felis tigrina (wild
cat) and Felis geoffroyi (wild cat)], taking their behaviour and habitat into
consideration. When the levels of paracoccidiodin positive reactions were
examined, terrestrial animals showed significantly higher rates (82.98%) while
arboreal animals showed lower reactivity (22.45%) (P < 0.01). The data are
relevant because there are quite a few papers regarding domestic and wild animals
and this study may help the understanding of some aspects of the parasite
ecology. These results point to the soil as the most probable reservoir of
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, and this is possibly the ecological niche of the
saprophytic phase in nature.

DOI: 10.1080/02681219580000081 
PMID: 7650577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3957. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1995 Jan;28(1):61-4.

Health problems of Callithrix jacchus in captivity.

Diniz LS(1), da-Costa EO.

Author information: 
(1)Clínica de Animais Silvestres, São Paulo, Brasil.

A 20-year retrospective study was carried out to determine the prevalence of
diseases occurring in 265 (155 males and 110 females) common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), kept at the São Paulo Zoo. A total of 564 clinical
disorders were detected: digestive problems, 50.2% (protozoa, 44.3%; helminths,
26.3%; bacteria, 7.0%; non-especific causes, 22.4%); respiratory problems
(pneumonia), 16.3%; injuries, 13.8%; nutritional deficiency, 4.4%; reproductive
problems (obstetrical) 2.5%; septicemia, 1.6%; circulatory problems, 1.6%;
sporadic cases, 4.0%; inconclusive cases, 5.5%. Little attention has been paid to
the sanitary care of marmosets in Brazil. Since most of the available information
comes from the international literature, the occurrence of major diseases and
their etiological agents in Brazil are relevant data.


PMID: 7581030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

