

3957. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1995 Jan;28(1):61-4.

Health problems of Callithrix jacchus in captivity.

Diniz LS(1), da-Costa EO.

Author information: 
(1)Clínica de Animais Silvestres, São Paulo, Brasil.

A 20-year retrospective study was carried out to determine the prevalence of
diseases occurring in 265 (155 males and 110 females) common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), kept at the São Paulo Zoo. A total of 564 clinical
disorders were detected: digestive problems, 50.2% (protozoa, 44.3%; helminths,
26.3%; bacteria, 7.0%; non-especific causes, 22.4%); respiratory problems
(pneumonia), 16.3%; injuries, 13.8%; nutritional deficiency, 4.4%; reproductive
problems (obstetrical) 2.5%; septicemia, 1.6%; circulatory problems, 1.6%;
sporadic cases, 4.0%; inconclusive cases, 5.5%. Little attention has been paid to
the sanitary care of marmosets in Brazil. Since most of the available information
comes from the international literature, the occurrence of major diseases and
their etiological agents in Brazil are relevant data.


PMID: 7581030  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3958. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1995 Jan;28(1):108-12.

The effect of parturition on the interactions within pairs of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Mota MT(1), Sousa MB, Campos MF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brasil.

The relationship within common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) pairs is based on
pair-bond formation. This pair-bond is important for the successful rearing of
the young and for the enhancement of reproductive success. Female marmosets bear 
twins which are carried mainly by males starting on the first day after the birth
of the infants. Little is known, however, about the patterns of sociosexual
interaction between callitrichid pairs and how these interactions change after
the arrival of offspring. To evaluate the effect of parturition on these
interactions, three heterosexual pairs of common marmosets were observed for four
weeks before and four weeks after the birth of infants. The animals were kept in 
individual outdoor cages of the Nucleo de Primatologia, under environmental
conditions. The time spent in proximity was mainly attributable to the initiative
of females before parturition and the initiative of males after the offspring
arrived. Males were groomed more before than after the birth of infants. In
contrast, the amount of grooming received by females was the same in the two
situations. These observations suggest that the relationship within pairs of
common marmosets is slightly modified by the birth of infants and indicates that 
males and females could be using different strategies to enhance their
reproductive success.


PMID: 7581018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

