

3959. J Med Primatol. 1995 Jan;24(1):49-51.

Melanotic ependymoma in a Goeldi's marmoset (Callimico goeldii).

Nichols DK(1), Dias JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC 20008-2598, USA.

A spontaneous melanotic ependymoma was observed in the brain of an adult female
Goeldi's marmoset (Callimico goeldii). The mass completely occupied the left
lateral ventricle, rupturing the fornix and corpus callosum, and compressing the 
adjacent neuropil. Special histochemical techniques, including melanin bleach,
periodic acid-Schiff, Perls iron and phosphotungstic acid hematoxylin,
demonstrated the neoplasms to be an ependymoma with a rare melanotic
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1995.tb00144.x 
PMID: 7563011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3960. J Appl Toxicol. 1995 Jan-Feb;15(1):19-26.

Preclinical safety studies with recombinant human interleukin 6 (rhIL-6) in the
primate Callithrix jacchus (marmoset): comparison with studies in rats.

Ryffel B(1), Weber M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Zurich, Institute of Toxicology, Switzerland.

The haemopoietic and immunostimulatory properties of recombinant human
interleukin 6 (rhIL-6) might be used clinically in cancer patients. For the
preclinical assessment of the safety of such a therapy, we chose the primate
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and Wistar rats. Recombinant hIL-6 given to
marmosets at doses of up to 1000 micrograms kg-1 day-1 over 4 and 9 weeks did not
induce fever and was very well tolerated. Haematological alterations included a
sustained two- to threefold increase of thrombocyte counts, peaking at 4 weeks,
as well as an increase in neutrophils and basophils. The number of bone marrow
megakaryocytes at 4 and 9 weeks was not increased, but the ploidy grade was
augmented. An acute-phase protein response was observed within 24 h after the
first IL-6 administration, which reached a maximum after 1 week. The acute-phase 
protein response was not accompanied by functional or morphological signs of
hepatocellular damage. Increased immunoglobulin and soluble IL-2 receptor in the 
serum levels reflected systemic immunostimulation. Recombinant hIL-6 was also
given to rats at 500 micrograms kg-1 day-1 s.c. for 4 weeks, where it induced a
stimulation of thrombopoiesis associated with increased platelet counts within 1 
week. Furthermore, rhIL-6-treated rats had signs of immunostimulation and
increased acute-phase reactants in serum, as in marmosets. There was no evidence 
of renal glomerular or hepatic pathology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jat.2550150106 
PMID: 7538156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

