

3960. J Appl Toxicol. 1995 Jan-Feb;15(1):19-26.

Preclinical safety studies with recombinant human interleukin 6 (rhIL-6) in the
primate Callithrix jacchus (marmoset): comparison with studies in rats.

Ryffel B(1), Weber M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Zurich, Institute of Toxicology, Switzerland.

The haemopoietic and immunostimulatory properties of recombinant human
interleukin 6 (rhIL-6) might be used clinically in cancer patients. For the
preclinical assessment of the safety of such a therapy, we chose the primate
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and Wistar rats. Recombinant hIL-6 given to
marmosets at doses of up to 1000 micrograms kg-1 day-1 over 4 and 9 weeks did not
induce fever and was very well tolerated. Haematological alterations included a
sustained two- to threefold increase of thrombocyte counts, peaking at 4 weeks,
as well as an increase in neutrophils and basophils. The number of bone marrow
megakaryocytes at 4 and 9 weeks was not increased, but the ploidy grade was
augmented. An acute-phase protein response was observed within 24 h after the
first IL-6 administration, which reached a maximum after 1 week. The acute-phase 
protein response was not accompanied by functional or morphological signs of
hepatocellular damage. Increased immunoglobulin and soluble IL-2 receptor in the 
serum levels reflected systemic immunostimulation. Recombinant hIL-6 was also
given to rats at 500 micrograms kg-1 day-1 s.c. for 4 weeks, where it induced a
stimulation of thrombopoiesis associated with increased platelet counts within 1 
week. Furthermore, rhIL-6-treated rats had signs of immunostimulation and
increased acute-phase reactants in serum, as in marmosets. There was no evidence 
of renal glomerular or hepatic pathology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jat.2550150106 
PMID: 7538156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3961. Exp Neurol. 1995 Jan;131(1):108-13.

Neurotoxicity induced by prenatal exposure to MPTP on the monoaminergic and
peptidergic systems of the marmoset brain.

Pérez-Otaño I(1), Luquin MR, Oset C, Herrero MT, Kupsch A, Oertel W, Obeso JA,
Del Río J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Navarra, Medical School, Pamplona,
Spain.

The neurotoxicity induced by incidental prenatal exposure to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) was studied in three
marmosets. The baby marmosets exposed in utero to MPTP looked normal in the first
few weeks of life but around 8 to 10 weeks of life they started to behave
abnormally and were sacrificed when they were 20 weeks old. A marked reduction in
DA levels was found in the baby marmosets prenatally exposed to MPTP as compared 
to the corresponding age-matched controls and this was highly significant in the 
caudate nucleus, putamen, and nucleus accumbens. Serotonin content was normal in 
the caudate and putamen and was only significantly reduced in the nucleus
accumbens, hypothalamus, and cingulate cortex. Met-enkephalin levels were reduced
in the caudate nucleus, putamen, and globus pallidus. Substance P content tended 
to be lower in all regions examined; however, the decrease was only statistically
significant in the substantia nigra. These results indicate that prenatal
exposure to MPTP induces a marked and long-lasting alteration in monoaminergic
and peptidergic systems of the primate brain. This observation may provide a new 
insight into the role of toxins in the etiology of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-4886(95)90012-8 
PMID: 7534717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

