

3961. Exp Neurol. 1995 Jan;131(1):108-13.

Neurotoxicity induced by prenatal exposure to MPTP on the monoaminergic and
peptidergic systems of the marmoset brain.

Pérez-Otaño I(1), Luquin MR, Oset C, Herrero MT, Kupsch A, Oertel W, Obeso JA,
Del Río J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Navarra, Medical School, Pamplona,
Spain.

The neurotoxicity induced by incidental prenatal exposure to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) was studied in three
marmosets. The baby marmosets exposed in utero to MPTP looked normal in the first
few weeks of life but around 8 to 10 weeks of life they started to behave
abnormally and were sacrificed when they were 20 weeks old. A marked reduction in
DA levels was found in the baby marmosets prenatally exposed to MPTP as compared 
to the corresponding age-matched controls and this was highly significant in the 
caudate nucleus, putamen, and nucleus accumbens. Serotonin content was normal in 
the caudate and putamen and was only significantly reduced in the nucleus
accumbens, hypothalamus, and cingulate cortex. Met-enkephalin levels were reduced
in the caudate nucleus, putamen, and globus pallidus. Substance P content tended 
to be lower in all regions examined; however, the decrease was only statistically
significant in the substantia nigra. These results indicate that prenatal
exposure to MPTP induces a marked and long-lasting alteration in monoaminergic
and peptidergic systems of the primate brain. This observation may provide a new 
insight into the role of toxins in the etiology of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-4886(95)90012-8 
PMID: 7534717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3962. Trop Geogr Med. 1995;47(3):136-8.

Angiostrongylus costaricensis in a black-eared marmoset.

Brack M(1), Schröpel M.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

A case of Angiostrongylus costaricensis in a captive C. penicillata in a German
zoological garden is described. Clinical symptoms were lacking, the morphological
lesions consisted of intestinal granulomas harbouring rhabdidiform larvae. The
adult worms were present in the ileo-caecal branches of the mesenteric artery.


PMID: 7483006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

