

3962. Trop Geogr Med. 1995;47(3):136-8.

Angiostrongylus costaricensis in a black-eared marmoset.

Brack M(1), Schröpel M.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

A case of Angiostrongylus costaricensis in a captive C. penicillata in a German
zoological garden is described. Clinical symptoms were lacking, the morphological
lesions consisted of intestinal granulomas harbouring rhabdidiform larvae. The
adult worms were present in the ileo-caecal branches of the mesenteric artery.


PMID: 7483006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3963. J Virol. 1994 Dec;68(12):8217-22.

Optimal lengths for DNAs encapsidated by Epstein-Barr virus.

Bloss TA(1), Sugden B.

Author information: 
(1)McArdle Laboratory for Cancer Research, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53706.

We measured the efficiency of DNA packaging by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) as a
function of the length of the DNA being packaged. Plasmids that contain oriP (the
origin of latent EBV DNA replication), oriLyt (the origin of lytic EBV DNA
replication), the viral terminal repeats (necessary for cleavage and packaging by
EBV), and various lengths of bacteriophage lambda DNA were introduced into
EBV-positive cells. Upon induction of the resident EBV's lytic phase, introduced 
plasmids replicated as concatemers and were packaged. Plasmid-derived concatemers
of DNA with certain lengths were found to predominate in isolated virion
particles. We measured the distribution of lengths of plasmid concatemers found
within cells supporting the lytic phase of the viral life cycle and found that
this distribution differed from the distribution of lengths of concatemers found 
in mature virion particles. This finding indicates that the DNA packaged into
mature virions represents a selected subset of those present in the cell during
packaging. These observations together indicate that the length of DNA affects
the efficiency with which that DNA is packaged by EBV. Finally, we measured the
length of the packaged B95-8 viral DNA and found it to be approximately 165 kbp, 
or 10 kbp shorter than the originally predicted size for B95-8 based on its
sequence. Together with the results of other studies, these findings indicate
that the packaging of DNAs by EBV is dependent on two imprecisely recognized
elements: the viral terminal repeats and the length of the DNA being packaged by 
the virus.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.68.12.8217-8222.1994 
PMCID: PMC237288
PMID: 7966614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

