

3966. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1994 Dec;95(4):399-408.

Social implications of gummivory in marmosets.

Harrison ML(1), Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University Trumbull Campus,
Warren, Ohio 44483.

Gummivory or exudate feeding is a major dietary specialization which has received
relatively little attention in the literature. While plant exudates contribute to
the diet of many primate species, we suggest that the callitrichid species
Cebuella pygmaea and Callithrix jacchus are obligate exudate feeders under
free-ranging conditions. Callithrix jacchus provides an excellent model for
examining the effects of exudate feeding and foraging upon social behavior, since
other callitrichid species of similar body size do not share this dietary
specialization. We review the effects of exudate foraging on specific social
behaviors observed both in field and laboratory populations of C. jacchus. By
comparing this species to closely related species, exudate foraging is seen to
(1) be retained under laboratory conditions, (2) increase the frequency of
territorial marking behavior while decreasing the frequency of overt aggression
in males, (3) decrease the duration of infant care, and (4) increase the number
of nonadults in social groups but not affect group size. The evidence presented
supports the hypothesis that the consequences of exudate foraging in C. jacchus
are fundamental and socially complex.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330950404 
PMID: 7864061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3967. J Comp Psychol. 1994 Dec;108(4):328-34.

Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) spatial memory in a foraging task: win-stay
versus win-shift strategies.

MacDonald SE(1), Pang JC, Gibeault S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, York University, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The spatial memory of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) was explored 
in 3 experiments with a simulated foraging task. In Experiment 1, individual
monkeys foraged among 8 baited food sites. They appeared to use spatial memory to
accurately avoid revisiting previously depleted sites. There was no difference in
accuracy between the adult monkeys and a juvenile monkey tested on the same task.
In Experiment 2, a win-stay paradigm was used. The adult monkey subject very
accurately remembered locations that had previously contained food. The monkey
tended to visit adjacent correct sites when retrieving food and thus minimized
the total distance travelled. In Experiment 3, a win-shift paradigm was used with
2 adult monkeys. Although both monkeys performed at above-chance levels of
accuracy on the win-shift task, they made many errors. These results suggest that
marmosets may prefer tasks that require a win-stay strategy.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.108.4.328 
PMID: 7813192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

