

3967. J Comp Psychol. 1994 Dec;108(4):328-34.

Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) spatial memory in a foraging task: win-stay
versus win-shift strategies.

MacDonald SE(1), Pang JC, Gibeault S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, York University, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The spatial memory of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) was explored 
in 3 experiments with a simulated foraging task. In Experiment 1, individual
monkeys foraged among 8 baited food sites. They appeared to use spatial memory to
accurately avoid revisiting previously depleted sites. There was no difference in
accuracy between the adult monkeys and a juvenile monkey tested on the same task.
In Experiment 2, a win-stay paradigm was used. The adult monkey subject very
accurately remembered locations that had previously contained food. The monkey
tended to visit adjacent correct sites when retrieving food and thus minimized
the total distance travelled. In Experiment 3, a win-shift paradigm was used with
2 adult monkeys. Although both monkeys performed at above-chance levels of
accuracy on the win-shift task, they made many errors. These results suggest that
marmosets may prefer tasks that require a win-stay strategy.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.108.4.328 
PMID: 7813192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3968. J Anat. 1994 Dec;185 ( Pt 3):481-6.

Anatomy of adult female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) reproductive system.

Cui KH(1), Matthews CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, University
of Adelaide, Australia.

Better appreciation of the female reproductive anatomy of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) should improve the prospects for nonsurgical embryo transfer
in this model. Vaginal measurements were performed in 8 female adult marmoset
monkeys. Four monkeys were measured at laparotomy for gross internal anatomy, and
1 monkey was analysed at autopsy. The vagina of the marmoset monkey was found to 
be divided into a lower and upper vagina with a marked vaginal isthmus between
them. The mean lengths of the lower and upper vagina were 17 mm (34 mm in total
vagina). The mean uterine size was 8.4 (length) x 10.0 (width) x 6.4 (thickness) 
mm, with the ovary measuring 5.3 x 4.3 x 3.8 mm. The mean length of the fallopian
tube was 10.5 mm with a width of 1.5 mm. Nonsurgical embryo transfer in this
model appears to be feasible, but the proportionally long vagina and short
uterine cavity needs to be recognised.


PMCID: PMC1166653
PMID: 7649784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

