

3968. J Anat. 1994 Dec;185 ( Pt 3):481-6.

Anatomy of adult female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) reproductive system.

Cui KH(1), Matthews CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, University
of Adelaide, Australia.

Better appreciation of the female reproductive anatomy of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) should improve the prospects for nonsurgical embryo transfer
in this model. Vaginal measurements were performed in 8 female adult marmoset
monkeys. Four monkeys were measured at laparotomy for gross internal anatomy, and
1 monkey was analysed at autopsy. The vagina of the marmoset monkey was found to 
be divided into a lower and upper vagina with a marked vaginal isthmus between
them. The mean lengths of the lower and upper vagina were 17 mm (34 mm in total
vagina). The mean uterine size was 8.4 (length) x 10.0 (width) x 6.4 (thickness) 
mm, with the ovary measuring 5.3 x 4.3 x 3.8 mm. The mean length of the fallopian
tube was 10.5 mm with a width of 1.5 mm. Nonsurgical embryo transfer in this
model appears to be feasible, but the proportionally long vagina and short
uterine cavity needs to be recognised.


PMCID: PMC1166653
PMID: 7649784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3969. J Immunol. 1994 Nov 15;153(10):4418-26.

Characterization of a 70-kDa, EBV gp350/220-binding protein on HSB-2 T cells.

Hedrick JA(1), Lao Z, Lipps SG, Wang Y, Todd SC, Lambris JD, Tsoukas CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, San Diego State University, CA 92182.

EBV binds and infects HSB-2 T cells via a receptor distinct from CD21. To further
study this novel EBV receptor, we expressed the first 470 amino acids of the
EBV-gp350/220 using the baculovirus expression system. The recombinant
gp350/220(1-470) has a m.w. of 95 kDa, reacts with anti-gp350/220 Abs, and binds 
CD21 in ELISA. Radiolabeled gp350/220(1-470) binds both HSB-2 and Raji cells. The
gp350/220(1-470) protein also inhibits EBV binding to both HSB-2 and Raji,
detected by flow cytometry. Lysates of HSB-2 cells compete with CD21 for binding 
to gp350/220(1-470), suggesting that the two receptors bind related epitopes on
the recombinant protein. Scatchard analysis reveals that gp350/220(1-470) binds
to 34,000 high affinity sites/HSB-2 cell (Kd = 0.92 x 10(-8) M) compared with the
97,000 high affinity sites bound/Raji cell (Kd = 1.78 x 10(-8) M). Utilizing a
gp350/220(1-470)-affinity matrix, we identify a 70-kDa (55-kDa nonreduced)
protein on the surfaces of 125I-labeled HSB-2 cells. Binding of this protein to
the matrix is inhibited by anti-gp350/220 Ab 72A1. In summary, we characterize a 
novel EBV-binding molecule on HSB-2 cells, compare its reactivity with gp350/220 
to that of CD21, and provide evidence of a gp350/220-reactive, 70-kDa protein on 
the surfaces of HSB-2 cells. In view of previous evidence of HSB-2 infectivity by
EBV, we propose that the 70 kDa protein represents the novel EBV receptor.


PMID: 7963519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

