

3970. J Med Chem. 1994 Nov 11;37(23):3882-5.

Orally active non-peptide fibrinogen receptor (GpIIb/IIIa) antagonists:
identification of
4-[4-[4-(aminoiminomethyl)phenyl]-1-piperazinyl]-1-piperidineacetic acid as a
long-acting, broad-spectrum antithrombotic agent.

Eldred CD(1), Evans B, Hindley S, Judkins BD, Kelly HA, Kitchin J, Lumley P,
Porter B, Ross BC, Smith KJ, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Glaxo Research and Development Ltd., Ware, 
England.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00049a006 
PMID: 7966149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3971. J Virol. 1994 Nov;68(11):7497-506.

Crucial sequences within the Epstein-Barr virus TP1 promoter for EBNA2-mediated
transactivation and interaction of EBNA2 with its responsive element.

Meitinger C(1), Strobl LJ, Marschall G, Bornkamm GW, Zimber-Strobl U.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische Molekularbiologie und Tumorgenetik im Forschungszentrum
für Umwelt und Gesundheit, GSF, Munich, Germany.

EBNA2 is one of the few genes of Epstein-Barr virus which are necessary for
immortalization of human primary B lymphocytes. The EBNA2 protein acts as a
transcriptional activator of several viral and cellular genes. For the TP1
promoter, we have shown previously that an EBNA2-responsive element (EBNA2RE)
between -258 and -177 relative to the TP1 RNA start site is necessary and
sufficient for EBNA2-mediated transactivation and that it binds EBNA2 through a
cellular factor. To define the critical cis elements within this region, we
cloned EBNA2RE mutants in front of the TP1 minimal promoter fused to the reporter
gene for luciferase. Transactivation by EBNA2 was tested by transfection of these
mutants in the absence and presence of an EBNA2 expression vector into the
established B-cell line BL41-P3HR-1. The analysis revealed that two identical
11-bp motifs and the region 3' of the second 11-bp motif are essential for
transactivation by EBNA2. Methylation interference experiments indicated that the
same cellular factor in the absence of EBNA2 binds either one (complex I) or both
(complex III) 11-bp motifs with different affinities, giving rise to two
different specific protein-DNA complexes within the left-hand 54 bp of EBNA2RE. A
third specific complex was shown previously to be present only in
EBNA2-expressing cells and to contain EBNA2. Analysis of this EBNA2-containing
complex revealed the same protection pattern as for complex III, indicating that 
EBNA2 interacts with DNA through binding of the cellular protein to the 11-bp
motifs. Mobility shift assays with the different mutants demonstrated that one
11-bp motif is sufficient for binding the cellular factor, whereas for binding of
EBNA2 as well as for efficient transactivation by EBNA2, both 11-bp motifs are
required.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.68.11.7497-7506.1994 
PMCID: PMC237192
PMID: 7933133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

