

3972. J Bone Miner Res. 1994 Nov;9(11):1687-96.

Monoclonal antibodies with selective reactivity against osteoblasts and
osteocytes in human bone.

Walsh S(1), Dodds RA, James IE, Bradbeer JN, Gowen M.

Author information: 
(1)Bath Institute for Rheumatic Diseases, University of Bath, England.

Monoclonal antibodies (MAb) may provide valuable tools for studying osteoblast
differentiation. We therefore raised a panel of MAb reactive with cells of this
phenotype using 1,25(OH)2D3-treated human trabecular osteoblast-like cells (HOBS)
as the immunogen. Immunohistochemical studies on various tissues, including
undecalcified cryostat sections of fetal and adult human bone, identified 11 bone
cell-reactive MAb. Of these, 2 demonstrated particularly selective reactivities
against osteocytes (OB/M) and osteoblasts (OB/L). These reactivities were also
seen in developing bone from rat, rabbit, and marmoset. OB/L and OB/M
demonstrated limited reactivity against a small number of human tissues from the 
extensive panel of substrates tested. Both MAb exhibited reactivity against
discrete populations of cells in the large and small intestine. In addition, OB/L
reacted with cells in the basal epidermis of skin and OB/M with cells in blood
vessel walls. Both antibodies demonstrated reactivity against a variety of
cultured osteoblast-like cell lines and other cultured cell types. These MAb may 
therefore provide a valuable means of studying osteoblast ontogeny.

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.5650091104 
PMID: 7863819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3973. J Reprod Fertil. 1994 Nov;102(2):493-500.

Molecular mass and isoelectric properties of pituitary and urinary gonadotrophins
in callitrichid primates.

Rosenbusch J(1), Bellmann A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

In this study, the molecular masses and isoelectric characteristics of pituitary 
LH and FSH in two species of callitrichid primate, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus), were
determined. Comparative data for urine samples from Callithrix jacchus are also
presented. The separation of gonadotrophins from pituitary extracts and urine was
performed under nonreducing conditions using SDS-PAGE and isoelectric focusing
procedures. Hormone activity in gel eluates was determined by in vitro bioassays 
for LH and FSH and by a microtitre plate enzymeimmunoassay for LH. The molecular 
masses of pituitary and urinary proteins were between 36 and 37 kDa for LH and
FSH, and were similar in both species. A dimer form of pituitary LH with a
molecular mass of 33 kDa was also found in the cotton-top tamarin, but not in the
marmoset. Guanidine-HCl dissociation of gonadotrophins from marmoset and tamarin 
pituitaries before electrophoresis gave proteins of 16 and 28 kDa, and 16 and 25 
kDa range, respectively. Isoelectric focusing revealed numerous peaks of
bioactivity for both LH and FSH, indicating the presence of multiple molecular
variants (isoforms) of each hormone. In both species pituitary FSH eluted over a 
narrower and more acidic pH range than LH. Isoelectric focusing profiles for
pituitary and urinary LH in the marmoset were similar (pH range 5.0-8.5), whereas
urinary FSH demonstrated a more acidic profile than the pituitary protein. These 
results give comparative information on the properties of New World primate
gonadotrophins, which should be useful in studies of their physiological action
and in aiding the development of improved reagents and assays for their
detection.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1020493 
PMID: 7861403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

