

3973. J Reprod Fertil. 1994 Nov;102(2):493-500.

Molecular mass and isoelectric properties of pituitary and urinary gonadotrophins
in callitrichid primates.

Rosenbusch J(1), Bellmann A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

In this study, the molecular masses and isoelectric characteristics of pituitary 
LH and FSH in two species of callitrichid primate, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus), were
determined. Comparative data for urine samples from Callithrix jacchus are also
presented. The separation of gonadotrophins from pituitary extracts and urine was
performed under nonreducing conditions using SDS-PAGE and isoelectric focusing
procedures. Hormone activity in gel eluates was determined by in vitro bioassays 
for LH and FSH and by a microtitre plate enzymeimmunoassay for LH. The molecular 
masses of pituitary and urinary proteins were between 36 and 37 kDa for LH and
FSH, and were similar in both species. A dimer form of pituitary LH with a
molecular mass of 33 kDa was also found in the cotton-top tamarin, but not in the
marmoset. Guanidine-HCl dissociation of gonadotrophins from marmoset and tamarin 
pituitaries before electrophoresis gave proteins of 16 and 28 kDa, and 16 and 25 
kDa range, respectively. Isoelectric focusing revealed numerous peaks of
bioactivity for both LH and FSH, indicating the presence of multiple molecular
variants (isoforms) of each hormone. In both species pituitary FSH eluted over a 
narrower and more acidic pH range than LH. Isoelectric focusing profiles for
pituitary and urinary LH in the marmoset were similar (pH range 5.0-8.5), whereas
urinary FSH demonstrated a more acidic profile than the pituitary protein. These 
results give comparative information on the properties of New World primate
gonadotrophins, which should be useful in studies of their physiological action
and in aiding the development of improved reagents and assays for their
detection.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1020493 
PMID: 7861403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3974. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1994 Nov;95(3):333-53.

"Giant" tamarin from the Miocene of Colombia.

Kay RF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710.

A nearly complete but badly crushed skull and mandible of Lagonimico conclucatus,
gen. et sp. nov. is described from the La Victoria Formation, Colombia. The
specimen is of middle Miocene age and dates from about 13.5 Ma. Features of the
dentition suggest Lagonimico is a sister group to living Callitrichinae
(Saguinus, Leontopithecus, Callithrix, and Cebuella). These features include
having elongate compressed lower incisors, a reduced P2 lingual moiety, and the
absence of upper molar hypocones. The new taxon also has autapomorphies, such as 
a relatively deep jaw, that rule it out of the direct ancestry of any living
callitrichine. This animal is assigned to a new tribe of the callitrichine clade.
The orbits of L. conclucatus are small, suggesting diurnal habits. Inflated,
low-crowned (bunodont) cheek teeth with short, rounded shearing crests, as well
as premolar simplification and M3 size reduction, suggest fruit- or gum-eating
adaptations, as among many living callitrichines. Procumbent and slightly
elongate lower incisors suggest this species could use its front teeth as a
gouge, perhaps for harvesting tree gum. Estimates from jaw size suggest
Lagonimico weighed about 1,200 g, about the size of Callicebus, the living titi
monkey of South America. Judged from tooth size and jaw length, Lagonimico would 
have been slightly smaller than Callicebus, but still larger than Callimico or
any living callitrichine. Therefore, many of the distinctive anatomical features 
of the callitrichine clade, sometimes explained by phyletic dwarfing, may have
evolved at larger body size. Evolutionary size reduction may have occurred in
parallel in callitrichines and Callimico.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330950305 
PMID: 7856767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

