

3975. Eur J Pharmacol. 1994 Oct 24;264(2):117-23.

Antiparkinsonian activity of talipexole in MPTP-treated monkeys: in combination
with L-dopa and as chronic treatment.

Irifune M(1), Nomoto M, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Kagoshima University, Japan.

We examined whether or not the antiparkinsonian activity of talipexole (B-HT 920,
6-allyl-2-amino-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4H-thiazolo[4,5-d]-azepine) could be optimised
by combination with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa). Additionally, the
effects of chronic treatment with talipexole on motor behavior were investigated 
using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated and normal
common marmosets. Administration of MPTP (0.5 mg/animal i.v. once or twice) to
marmosets induced persistent parkinsonian motor deficits. The antiparkinsonian
activity of talipexole (40 micrograms/kg s.c.) was significantly enhanced by its 
combination with L-dopa (30 mg/kg i.p.). This may further support the postulated 
postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptor agonist properties of talipexole. Chronic
treatment with talipexole (a daily dose of 40 micrograms/kg s.c. for 21 days) did
not lead to tolerance to the antiparkinsonian activity in MPTP-treated animals.
No obvious dyskinesia was seen throughout the chronic treatment. In contrast, in 
normal marmosets, talipexole at a dose of 80 micrograms/kg which is a dose
sufficient to induce hyperactivity did not increase motor activity during the
treatment repeated for 21 days. These results suggest that talipexole is a
selective dopamine D2 receptor agonist drug of potential use in the treatment of 
Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(94)00446-3 
PMID: 7851473  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3976. Brain Res Dev Brain Res. 1994 Oct 14;82(1-2):103-17.

Postnatal development of glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin and S100
protein in monkey visual cortex: evidence for a transient reduction of GFAP
immunoreactivity.

Missler M(1), Eins S, Böttcher H, Wolff JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Göttingen, FRG.

In the cerebral cortex of some species, the gradual appearance of glial
fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is often interpreted as reflecting the parallel 
maturation of neuronal connectivity. We studied the postnatal maturation of
astrocytes in the primary visual cortex of Callithrix jacchus using antibodies
against GFAP, vimentin and S100 protein as immunohistochemical markers. In the
cortical grey matter of this species, the overall GFAP-immunoreactivity (IR) as
measured by image analysis is high at birth (130% of the adult value), decreases 
until about 3 months (80%) and increases again towards adult values (100%).
Vimentin-IR was high at birth, and declined towards 3 months and later. In
contrast, S100-IR augmented postnatally in neuropil, and showed a laminar shift
of maximum IR from layer IV to supragranular layers during ontogenesis. The
decrease of GFAP-IR is predominantly due to changes in density of GFAP-positive
(+) astrocytes within cortical tissue (newborn: 18,600 GFAP+astrocytes/mm3; 1
month: 11,600/mm3; 3 months: 5,700/mm3; adult: 10,200/mm3), while the overall
number of astrocytes remained relatively constant as shown by the number of
S100-positive astrocytic cell bodies. At times of low GFAP-IR a reduced area
density of intermediate filaments was found in astrocytes by electron microscopy.
The period of reduced GFAP-expression coincides with the time of prominent
synapse remodeling in the visual cortex of marmosets. These data suggest that
GFAP-expression may depend on functional conditions rather than time-dependent
maturation.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-3806(94)90153-8 
PMID: 7842498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

