

3976. Brain Res Dev Brain Res. 1994 Oct 14;82(1-2):103-17.

Postnatal development of glial fibrillary acidic protein, vimentin and S100
protein in monkey visual cortex: evidence for a transient reduction of GFAP
immunoreactivity.

Missler M(1), Eins S, Böttcher H, Wolff JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Göttingen, FRG.

In the cerebral cortex of some species, the gradual appearance of glial
fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is often interpreted as reflecting the parallel 
maturation of neuronal connectivity. We studied the postnatal maturation of
astrocytes in the primary visual cortex of Callithrix jacchus using antibodies
against GFAP, vimentin and S100 protein as immunohistochemical markers. In the
cortical grey matter of this species, the overall GFAP-immunoreactivity (IR) as
measured by image analysis is high at birth (130% of the adult value), decreases 
until about 3 months (80%) and increases again towards adult values (100%).
Vimentin-IR was high at birth, and declined towards 3 months and later. In
contrast, S100-IR augmented postnatally in neuropil, and showed a laminar shift
of maximum IR from layer IV to supragranular layers during ontogenesis. The
decrease of GFAP-IR is predominantly due to changes in density of GFAP-positive
(+) astrocytes within cortical tissue (newborn: 18,600 GFAP+astrocytes/mm3; 1
month: 11,600/mm3; 3 months: 5,700/mm3; adult: 10,200/mm3), while the overall
number of astrocytes remained relatively constant as shown by the number of
S100-positive astrocytic cell bodies. At times of low GFAP-IR a reduced area
density of intermediate filaments was found in astrocytes by electron microscopy.
The period of reduced GFAP-expression coincides with the time of prominent
synapse remodeling in the visual cortex of marmosets. These data suggest that
GFAP-expression may depend on functional conditions rather than time-dependent
maturation.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-3806(94)90153-8 
PMID: 7842498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3977. Am J Physiol. 1994 Oct;267(4 Pt 1):E612-9.

Expression of components of the RAS during prolonged blockade at different levels
in primates.

Samani NJ(1), Cumin F, Kelly M, Wood JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Leicester, United Kingdom.

To assess the effects of inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system at different 
levels on plasma concentrations of components of the system and on renin and
angiotensinogen gene expression, marmosets on a low-sodium diet were treated for 
1 wk by continuous intraperitoneal infusion with either the renin inhibitor
CGP-29287, the ACE inhibitor benazeprilat, the angiotensin II antagonist
valsartan, the renin inhibitory monoclonal antibody R-3-36-16, or vehicle. Plasma
total immunoreactive renin increased (14- to 20-fold) after all three modes of
interference. Plasma angiotensinogen was significantly reduced in the
benazeprilat- and valsartan-treated marmosets but not in the CGP-29287-treated
animals. Plasma concentration of angiotensin II was significantly decreased in
the benazeprilat-, CGP-29287-, and R-3-36-16-treated marmosets and was increased 
in the valsartan-treated marmosets. Kidney renin mRNA level increased 8- to
15-fold in all groups. Hepatic angiotensinogen mRNA level increased with
CGP-29287 treatment but decreased with the other treatments. Kidney
angiotensinogen mRNA level was not affected by any treatment. Different modes of 
inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system have different effects on plasma
components of the system and liver angiotensinogen expression.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.1994.267.4.E612 
PMID: 7943312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

