

3977. Am J Physiol. 1994 Oct;267(4 Pt 1):E612-9.

Expression of components of the RAS during prolonged blockade at different levels
in primates.

Samani NJ(1), Cumin F, Kelly M, Wood JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Leicester, United Kingdom.

To assess the effects of inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system at different 
levels on plasma concentrations of components of the system and on renin and
angiotensinogen gene expression, marmosets on a low-sodium diet were treated for 
1 wk by continuous intraperitoneal infusion with either the renin inhibitor
CGP-29287, the ACE inhibitor benazeprilat, the angiotensin II antagonist
valsartan, the renin inhibitory monoclonal antibody R-3-36-16, or vehicle. Plasma
total immunoreactive renin increased (14- to 20-fold) after all three modes of
interference. Plasma angiotensinogen was significantly reduced in the
benazeprilat- and valsartan-treated marmosets but not in the CGP-29287-treated
animals. Plasma concentration of angiotensin II was significantly decreased in
the benazeprilat-, CGP-29287-, and R-3-36-16-treated marmosets and was increased 
in the valsartan-treated marmosets. Kidney renin mRNA level increased 8- to
15-fold in all groups. Hepatic angiotensinogen mRNA level increased with
CGP-29287 treatment but decreased with the other treatments. Kidney
angiotensinogen mRNA level was not affected by any treatment. Different modes of 
inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system have different effects on plasma
components of the system and liver angiotensinogen expression.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.1994.267.4.E612 
PMID: 7943312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3978. J Craniofac Genet Dev Biol. 1994 Oct-Dec;14(4):245-51.

Temporomandibular joint development in the marmoset--a mirror of man.

Robinson PD(1), Poswillo DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, U.M.D.S. Guy's Campus, London,
UK.

The timing of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) development in the cotton-eared
marmoset was studied by histological examination of joints taken during
embryogenesis and compared with TMJ development reported in man. Specimens were
obtained via hysterotomy at intervals during pregnancies dated by estimation of
uterine size or fetal head diameter. Elements of the marmoset TMJ were first
identified at 70-85 days gestation, and TMJ morphogenesis was complete at 110-125
days. The chronological events of TMJ embryogenesis were found to run parallel to
the human but were delayed by 30 days. At birth, after 150 days gestation, the
marmoset TMJ resembled the human joint at the end of the second trimester, with
all cell layers of the condylar cartilage in place and ossification started in
temporal and condylar components. A new world primate, the cotton-eared marmoset 
is proposed as an animal model for craniofacial studies involving the TMJ on
grounds of its close comparability to man.


PMID: 7883871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

