

398. Vis Neurosci. 2019 Nov 13;36:E012. doi: 10.1017/S0952523819000099.

Binocular summation in marmoset lateral geniculate nucleus.

Belluccini E(1)(2)(3), Zeater N(1)(2)(3), Pietersen ANJ(1)(2)(3), Eiber
CD(1)(2)(3), Martin PR(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, University of Sydney,
Sydney 2000, Australia.
(2)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney 2000, Australia.
(3)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney 2000, Australia.

In primates and carnivores, the main laminae of the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) receive monocular excitatory input in an eye-alternating fashion.
There is also evidence that nondominant eye stimulation can reduce responses to
dominant eye stimulation and that a subset of LGN cells in the koniocellular (K) 
layers receives convergent binocular excitatory input from both eyes. What is not
known is how the two eye inputs summate in the K layers of LGN. Here, we aimed to
answer this question by making extracellular array electrode recordings targeted 
to K layers in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) LGN, as visual stimuli (flashed 
200 ms temporal square-wave pulses or drifting gratings) were presented to each
eye independently or to both eyes simultaneously. We found that when the flashed 
stimulus was presented to both eyes, compared to the dominant eye, the peak
firing rate of most cells (61%, 14/23) was reduced. The remainder showed response
facilitation (17%) or partial summation (22%). A greater degree of facilitation
was seen when the total number of spikes across the stimulus time window (200 ms)
rather than peak firing rates was measured. A similar pattern of results was seen
for contrast-varying gratings and for small numbers of parvocellular (n = 12) and
magnocellular (n = 3) cells recorded. Our findings show that binocular summation 
in the marmoset LGN is weak and predominantly sublinear in nature.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523819000099 
PMID: 31718727  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Cereb Cortex. 2020 Mar 14;30(3):1797-1812. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhz203.

Extensive Connectivity Between the Medial Pulvinar and the Cortex Revealed in the
Marmoset Monkey.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Mundinano IC(1), Kwan WC(1), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia.

The medial pulvinar (PM) is a multimodal associative thalamic nucleus, recently
evolved in primates. PM participates in integrative and modulatory functions,
including directed attention, and consistently exhibits alterations in disorders 
such as schizophrenia and autism. Despite essential cognitive functions, the
cortical inputs to the PM have not been systematically investigated. To date,
less than 20 cortices have been demonstrated to project to PM. The goal of this
study was to establish a comprehensive map of the cortical afferents to PM in the
marmoset monkey. Using a magnetic resonance imaging-guided injection approach, we
reveal 62 discrete cortices projecting to the adult marmoset PM. We confirmed
previously reported connections and identified further projections from discrete 
cortices across the temporal, parietal, retrosplenial-cingulate, prefrontal, and 
orbital lobes. These regions encompass areas recipient of PM efferents,
demonstrating the reciprocity of the PM-cortical connectivity. Moreover, our
results indicate that PM neurones projecting to distinct cortices are
intermingled and form multimodal cell clusters. This microunit organization,
believed to facilitate cross-modal integration, contrasts with the large
functional subdivisions usually observed in thalamic nuclei. Altogether, we
provide the first comprehensive map of PM cortical afferents, an essential
stepping stone in expanding our knowledge of PM and its function.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhz203 
PMID: 31711181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

