

3981. Pediatr Res. 1994 Oct;36(4):456-60.

Epstein-Barr virus-infected marmoset cells do not form lymphomas in mice with
severe combined immunodeficiency.

Katz BZ(1), Salimi B, Saini U, McNamara JG, Eisen R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510.

EBV has been associated with several malignancies in humans. EBV can also infect 
marmoset B lymphocytes, which, as opposed to human B cells, are permissive for
lytic Epstein-Barr viral replication. Mice with a severe combined
immunodeficiency phenotype (SCID mice) are extremely susceptible to EBV-induced
lymphomagenesis when inoculated with EBV-infected lymphocytes. We inoculated SCID
mice with human and marmoset lymphoblastoid cells infected with the same EBV
isolates. The marmoset cells never gave rise to lymphomas, even after the
administration of acyclovir or an anti-natural killer cell antibody and
observation periods of up to 16 wk. In contrast, the human lymphoblastoid cells
nearly always gave rise to lymphomas within 8 wk. Furthermore, human
lymphoblastoid cells genetically engineered to permit lytic EBV replication also 
readily formed tumors in the SCID mouse. Thus, in this system, it is the cellular
milieu that is crucial in determining whether a given lymphoblastoid cell will
give rise to a tumor, not the EBV isolate harbored by the cell or whether the
virus is permitted to undergo lytic replication.

DOI: 10.1203/00006450-199410000-00007 
PMID: 7816520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3982. Physiol Behav. 1994 Oct;56(4):801-10.

Social and reproductive influences on plasma cortisol in female marmoset monkeys.

Saltzman W(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Scheffler G, Wegner FH, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299.

Subordinate female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) undergo ovulation
suppression and exhibit low plasma cortisol levels compared to the dominant,
breeding female. To determine whether this cortisol difference is mediated by the
differential reproductive consequences of social status, we monitored plasma
progesterone and cortisol in 32 adult female marmosets while they were housed in 
heterosexual pairs, during the first 3 days of heterosexual group formation, and 
while animals were housed in established social groups. Cortisol levels prior to 
group formation were significantly higher in females exhibiting cyclic ovulatory 
activity than in anovulatory females but were not predictive of social status.
Subsequently, when animals were housed in established social groups, dominant
(cyclic) females had significantly higher cortisol levels than did subordinate
(anovulatory) females. Cortisol levels differed between the pre and postgroup
formation conditions only in animals that underwent a corresponding onset or
termination of ovulatory cyclicity. Cortisol differences between dominant and
subordinate female marmosets therefore appear to be associated with differences
in reproductive function rather than with social status per se.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(94)90246-1 
PMID: 7800752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

