

3982. Physiol Behav. 1994 Oct;56(4):801-10.

Social and reproductive influences on plasma cortisol in female marmoset monkeys.

Saltzman W(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Scheffler G, Wegner FH, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299.

Subordinate female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) undergo ovulation
suppression and exhibit low plasma cortisol levels compared to the dominant,
breeding female. To determine whether this cortisol difference is mediated by the
differential reproductive consequences of social status, we monitored plasma
progesterone and cortisol in 32 adult female marmosets while they were housed in 
heterosexual pairs, during the first 3 days of heterosexual group formation, and 
while animals were housed in established social groups. Cortisol levels prior to 
group formation were significantly higher in females exhibiting cyclic ovulatory 
activity than in anovulatory females but were not predictive of social status.
Subsequently, when animals were housed in established social groups, dominant
(cyclic) females had significantly higher cortisol levels than did subordinate
(anovulatory) females. Cortisol levels differed between the pre and postgroup
formation conditions only in animals that underwent a corresponding onset or
termination of ovulatory cyclicity. Cortisol differences between dominant and
subordinate female marmosets therefore appear to be associated with differences
in reproductive function rather than with social status per se.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(94)90246-1 
PMID: 7800752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3983. J Med Chem. 1994 Sep 30;37(20):3274-81.

The squalestatins: novel inhibitors of squalene synthase. Enzyme inhibitory
activities and in vivo evaluation of C1-modified analogues.

Procopiou PA(1), Bailey EJ, Bamford MJ, Craven AP, Dymock BW, Houston JG, Hutson 
JL, Kirk BE, McCarthy AD, Sareen M, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Glaxo Research and Development Ltd., Greenford, Middlesex, United Kingdom.

Squalestatin analogues modified in the C1 side chain were prepared and evaluated 
for their ability to inhibit rat liver microsomal and Candida squalene synthase
(SQS) in vitro. While maintaining the 4,6-dimethyloctenoate or
4,6-dimethyloctanoate ester groups at C6, a number of modifications to the C1
side chain were well tolerated. However, in the absence of the C6 ester group,
similar modifications to the C1 side chain caused substantial loss of activity.
Compounds were also evaluated for their ability to inhibit cholesterol
biosynthesis in vivo in rats and to reduce serum cholesterol levels in marmosets.
These studies revealed that compounds with similar SQS inhibitory activities can 
possess different in vivo durations of action and lipid-lowering abilities.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00046a011 
PMID: 7932554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

