

3985. J Gen Virol. 1994 Sep;75 ( Pt 9):2403-8.

The biological characterization of field isolates of canine distemper virus from 
Japan.

Mori T(1), Shin YS, Okita M, Hirayama N, Miyashita N, Gemma T, Kai C, Mikami T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, University of
Tokyo, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Gen Virol 1994 Nov;75(Pt 11):3285.

Eight isolates of canine distemper virus (CDV) were obtained from seven dogs
suffering from distemper by co-cultivation of their mononuclear cells with a
marmoset B lymphoblastoid cell line, B95a. Six of the seven dogs had received one
or more vaccinations. All of the isolates readily proliferated in B95a cells, but
were not completely neutralized by anti-CDV canine plasma, which had high
neutralizing activity against the Onderstepoort laboratory strain of CDV.
Furthermore, different reactivities of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against CDV
were observed between the field isolates and laboratory or vaccine strains of CDV
in immunofluorescence studies. Immunoprecipitation analysis using MAbs detected
the haemagglutinin protein of each new field isolate as 69K, 75K and 155K forms, 
and the fusion protein as 64K and 65K forms; the corresponding proteins of the
Onderstepoort strain were detected as 75K and 61K proteins respectively. It is
apparent from these results that the new field isolates of CDV have very
different antigenic properties from the Onderstepoort vaccine strain.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-75-9-2403 
PMID: 8077940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3986. J Mol Evol. 1994 Sep;39(3):255-67.

Molecular evolution of interleukin-3.

Burger H(1), Wagemaker G, Leunissen JA, Dorssers LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dr. Daniel den Hoed Cancer Center/Dijkzigt,
University Hospital Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Chimpanzee, tamarin, and marmoset interleukin-3 (IL-3) genes were cloned,
sequenced, and expressed. Western blot analysis demonstrated that functional
genes were isolated. IL-3 sequences were compared with those of mouse, rat,
rhesus monkey, gibbon, and man. Multiple alignment of the IL-3 coding regions
showed that only a few regions had been conserved during mammalian evolution,
which are likely associated with functional domains of the IL-3 protein.
Substitution rates for the various lineages were calculated and the numbers of
synonymous and nonsynonymous substitutions were estimated separately. Distance
matrices of the IL-3 coding regions were used to construct phylogenetic trees
which revealed large differences in IL-3 evolution rate as well as a more rapid
substitution rate for rodents and a rate slowdown during hominoid evolution.
Extremes were rhesus monkey IL-3, which accumulated few synonymous substitutions,
and gibbon IL-3, which had almost exclusively synonymous substitutions. In rhesus
monkey IL-3, nonsynonymous substitutions outnumbered synonymous substitutions,
which could not be readily explained by a random process of substitutions. We
assume that during evolution of IL-3, the majority of the amino acid replacements
and the impaired interspecies functional cross-reactivity originate from
selection mechanisms with the most likely selective force being the structure of 
the heterodimeric IL.3 cell-surface receptor. Insight into IL-3 architecture and 
structural analysis of the IL-3 receptor are needed to analyze the unusually fast
evolution of IL-3 in more detail.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00160149 
PMID: 7932787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

