

3988. J Androl. 1994 Sep-Oct;15(5):398-409.

Growth factors (EGF, IGF-I) modulate the morphological differentiation of adult
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Sertoli cells in vitro.

Pretzer D(1), Ghaida JA, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universit√§t-Greifswald, Germany.

The effects of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin-like growth factor I
(IGF-I) on mature marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Sertoli cells in vitro were
investigated using light and electron microscopic and histochemical means. The
morphological data were substantiated by morphometric analysis at the electron
microscopic level. In a bicameral chamber system, cultured Sertoli cells
displayed a high degree of ultrastructural differentiation and exhibited a
polarized appearance. Basally located tight junctions joined adjacent cells. Germ
cells of early stages of development were regularly seen. Under the influence of 
IGF-I, cells developed extensive cell-cell contacts. The surface density of
smooth endoplasmic reticulum was increased. In contrast, the volume density of
lipid inclusions was decreased. The morphological integrity of enclosed germ
cells was maintained for a longer period. With EGF, cells were arranged in loose 
aggregates. Intercellular spaces were widened. The volume density of lipid
inclusions was increased. Germ cells exhibited profound signs of degeneration
early in culture, paralleled by increased development of phagolysosomes and high 
acid-beta-galactosidase activity. Under the influence of either growth factor,
mitochondria displayed a shift from the crista to the tubulo-vesicular type.
Mitochondrial dimensions and the volume density of mitochondrial compartment were
increased. In comparison with control cultures all documented changes were
statistically significant. Our findings indicate that marmoset Sertoli cells are 
target cells for EGF and IGF-I. Moreover, the dynamics of intercellular contacts,
germ cell survival, and morphological indices of lipid and/or steroid metabolism 
seem to be differentially modulated.


PMID: 7860420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3989. J Clin Invest. 1994 Sep;94(3):1339-45.

In healthy primates, circulating autoreactive T cells mediate autoimmune disease.

Genain CP(1), Lee-Parritz D, Nguyen MH, Massacesi L, Joshi N, Ferrante R, Hoffman
K, Moseley M, Letvin NL, Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

Comment in
    J Clin Invest. 1994 Sep;94(3):921-2.

A T cell response against myelin basic protein (MBP) is thought to contribute to 
the central nervous system (CNS) inflammation that occurs in the human
demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis. To test whether MBP-reactive T cells
that are normally retrieved from the circulation are capable of inducing CNS
disease, MBP-reactive T cell clones were isolated from the peripheral blood of
healthy, unimmunized Callithrix jacchus (C. jacchus) marmosets. This primate
species is characterized by a natural chimerism of bone marrow elements between
siblings that should make possible adoptive transfer of MBP-reactive T cells. We 
report that MBP-reactive T cell clones efficiently and reproducibly transfer CNS 
inflammatory disease between members of C. jacchus chimeric sets. The
demyelination that is characteristic of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis
induced in C. jacchus by immunization against human white matter did not occur
after adoptive transfer of the MBP-reactive clones. It was noteworthy that
encephalitogenic T cell clones were diverse in terms of their recognition of
different epitopes of MBP, distinguishing the response in C. jacchus from that in
some inbred rodents in which restricted recognition of MBP occurs. These findings
are the first direct evidence that natural populations of circulating T cells
directed against a CNS antigen can mediate an inflammatory autoimmune disease.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI117454 
PMCID: PMC295221
PMID: 7521889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

