

3989. J Clin Invest. 1994 Sep;94(3):1339-45.

In healthy primates, circulating autoreactive T cells mediate autoimmune disease.

Genain CP(1), Lee-Parritz D, Nguyen MH, Massacesi L, Joshi N, Ferrante R, Hoffman
K, Moseley M, Letvin NL, Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143.

Comment in
    J Clin Invest. 1994 Sep;94(3):921-2.

A T cell response against myelin basic protein (MBP) is thought to contribute to 
the central nervous system (CNS) inflammation that occurs in the human
demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis. To test whether MBP-reactive T cells
that are normally retrieved from the circulation are capable of inducing CNS
disease, MBP-reactive T cell clones were isolated from the peripheral blood of
healthy, unimmunized Callithrix jacchus (C. jacchus) marmosets. This primate
species is characterized by a natural chimerism of bone marrow elements between
siblings that should make possible adoptive transfer of MBP-reactive T cells. We 
report that MBP-reactive T cell clones efficiently and reproducibly transfer CNS 
inflammatory disease between members of C. jacchus chimeric sets. The
demyelination that is characteristic of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis
induced in C. jacchus by immunization against human white matter did not occur
after adoptive transfer of the MBP-reactive clones. It was noteworthy that
encephalitogenic T cell clones were diverse in terms of their recognition of
different epitopes of MBP, distinguishing the response in C. jacchus from that in
some inbred rodents in which restricted recognition of MBP occurs. These findings
are the first direct evidence that natural populations of circulating T cells
directed against a CNS antigen can mediate an inflammatory autoimmune disease.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI117454 
PMCID: PMC295221
PMID: 7521889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3990. J Gen Virol. 1994 Sep;75 ( Pt 9):2489-93.

Five new cytotoxic T cell epitopes identified within Epstein-Barr virus nuclear
antigen 3.

Burrows SR(1), Gardner J, Khanna R, Steward T, Moss DJ, Rodda S, Suhrbier A.

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Bancroft Centre, Brisbane,
Australia.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes are currently
being considered for inclusion into subunit vaccines. Here we describe the
characterization of five new CTL epitopes within EBV nuclear antigen 3 (EBNA3),
confirming EBNA3 as a major target for CTL recognition.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-75-9-2489 
PMID: 7521394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

