

3991. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1994 Aug 30;91(18):8646-50.

Autoantigenic proteins that bind recombinogenic sequences in Epstein-Barr virus
and cellular DNA.

Sun R(1), Spain TA, Lin SF, Miller G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520-8064.

We have identified conserved autoantigenic cellular proteins that bind to G-rich 
sequence motifs in recombinogenic regions of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA. This
binding activity, called TRBP, recognizes the EBV terminal repeats, a locus
responsible for interconversion of linear and circular EBV DNA. We found that
TRBP also binds to EBV DNA sequences involved in deletion of EBNA2, a gene
product required for immortalization. We show that TRBP binds sequences present
in repetitive cellular DNA, such as variable-number tandem repeats (VNTR) and
immunoglobulin heavy-chain class switch regions. We propose that EBV utilizes
cellular DNA recombination systems to mediate several types of viral genome
alterations. These findings may lead to an understanding of the mechanism of
rearrangements of EBV DNA that are a central feature of the biology of the virus.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.91.18.8646 
PMCID: PMC44663
PMID: 8078938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3992. Neurosci Lett. 1994 Aug 29;178(1):95-8.

Effects of bifemelane on parkinsonism induced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the common marmoset.

Nomoto M(1), Irifune M, Fukuzaki K, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

The effects of bifemelane on parkinsonism were shown in MPTP-treated common
marmosets. The administration of bifemelane increased locomotor activity in
MPTP-treated marmosets but not in normal control marmosets. In a microdialysis
study, extracellular levels of dopamine and its metabolites increased following
the administration of bifemelane. These results indicate that it is worth
studying the effects of bifemelane hydrochloride on patients with Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(94)90298-4 
PMID: 7816348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

