

3992. Neurosci Lett. 1994 Aug 29;178(1):95-8.

Effects of bifemelane on parkinsonism induced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the common marmoset.

Nomoto M(1), Irifune M, Fukuzaki K, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

The effects of bifemelane on parkinsonism were shown in MPTP-treated common
marmosets. The administration of bifemelane increased locomotor activity in
MPTP-treated marmosets but not in normal control marmosets. In a microdialysis
study, extracellular levels of dopamine and its metabolites increased following
the administration of bifemelane. These results indicate that it is worth
studying the effects of bifemelane hydrochloride on patients with Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(94)90298-4 
PMID: 7816348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3993. Thromb Res. 1994 Aug 1;75(3):269-84.

Inhibition of human platelet aggregation by GR91669, a prototype fibrinogen
receptor antagonist.

Foster MR(1), Hornby EJ, Brown S, Hann M, Kitchin J, Pike N, Ward P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular, Glaxo Group Research Limited, Ware, Herts.

In order to produce more potent and specific fibrinogen receptor (GpIIb/IIIa)
antagonists, the Arg-Gly of a chemical series based upon Arg-Gly-Asp was replaced
by alkyl chains of varying lengths. The most potent in this series, GR91669,
inhibited aggregation of human gel-filtered platelets (GFP) in vitro induced by
ADP or the thromboxane A2 mimetic, U46619, with IC50 values of 200nM and 500nM
respectively and was selected for further studies. Its inhibitory effects on GFP 
were reversed by addition of excess fibrinogen. The compound also inhibited ADP- 
or U46619-induced platelet aggregation in human whole blood (IC50 values of 700nM
in both cases). 125I-Fibrinogen binding to ADP-stimulated platelets was inhibited
by GR91669 with an IC50 (65nM) similar to that against platelet aggregation.
GR91669 (1mM) did not inhibit U46619-induced platelet shape change or 14C-5HT
secretion from platelets stimulated by collagen, U46619 or thrombin. Therefore
GR91669 inhibits aggregation but has no significant effect on stimulus-response
events, a profile consistent with fibrinogen receptor blockade. In addition,
GR91669 (1mM), unlike echistatin or Gly-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser, did not disrupt
vitronectin recptor-dependent attachment of cultured HUVECS in vitro and
similarly did not inhibit Mac-1 dependent adhesion of human granulocytes. Thus,
of the integrins tested, GR91669 appears to be specific for GpIIb/IIIa. Following
intravenous administration to marmosets of 1 or 10 mg/kg GR91669, ADP (10
microM)-induced platelet aggregation ex vivo was abolished for 15 and 60 minutes 
respectively. Greater than 50% inhibition was maintained for 30 minutes and 2
hours respectively. GR91669, therefore appears to be a potent, specific
fibrinogen receptor antagonist in vitro and which is also active in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/0049-3848(94)90238-0 
PMID: 7992238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

