

3993. Thromb Res. 1994 Aug 1;75(3):269-84.

Inhibition of human platelet aggregation by GR91669, a prototype fibrinogen
receptor antagonist.

Foster MR(1), Hornby EJ, Brown S, Hann M, Kitchin J, Pike N, Ward P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular, Glaxo Group Research Limited, Ware, Herts.

In order to produce more potent and specific fibrinogen receptor (GpIIb/IIIa)
antagonists, the Arg-Gly of a chemical series based upon Arg-Gly-Asp was replaced
by alkyl chains of varying lengths. The most potent in this series, GR91669,
inhibited aggregation of human gel-filtered platelets (GFP) in vitro induced by
ADP or the thromboxane A2 mimetic, U46619, with IC50 values of 200nM and 500nM
respectively and was selected for further studies. Its inhibitory effects on GFP 
were reversed by addition of excess fibrinogen. The compound also inhibited ADP- 
or U46619-induced platelet aggregation in human whole blood (IC50 values of 700nM
in both cases). 125I-Fibrinogen binding to ADP-stimulated platelets was inhibited
by GR91669 with an IC50 (65nM) similar to that against platelet aggregation.
GR91669 (1mM) did not inhibit U46619-induced platelet shape change or 14C-5HT
secretion from platelets stimulated by collagen, U46619 or thrombin. Therefore
GR91669 inhibits aggregation but has no significant effect on stimulus-response
events, a profile consistent with fibrinogen receptor blockade. In addition,
GR91669 (1mM), unlike echistatin or Gly-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser, did not disrupt
vitronectin recptor-dependent attachment of cultured HUVECS in vitro and
similarly did not inhibit Mac-1 dependent adhesion of human granulocytes. Thus,
of the integrins tested, GR91669 appears to be specific for GpIIb/IIIa. Following
intravenous administration to marmosets of 1 or 10 mg/kg GR91669, ADP (10
microM)-induced platelet aggregation ex vivo was abolished for 15 and 60 minutes 
respectively. Greater than 50% inhibition was maintained for 30 minutes and 2
hours respectively. GR91669, therefore appears to be a potent, specific
fibrinogen receptor antagonist in vitro and which is also active in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/0049-3848(94)90238-0 
PMID: 7992238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3994. Int Immunol. 1994 Aug;6(8):1133-42.

3H11, a unique cell surface molecule involved in the function of the CD45RA+
subset of CD4+ cells.

Hirose T(1), Kobata T, Nojima Y, Schlossman SF, Morimoto C.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115.

We have developed a mAb anti-3H11 by immunizing mice with a T cell line derived
from the Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset). Anti-3H11 is reactive with
approximately 48% of unfractionated T cells, 62% of CD4+ cells and 39% of CD8+
cells. Among CD4 cells, anti-3H11 preferentially reacts with the CD45RA+ T cell
subset. The majority of helper activity for pokeweed mitogen (PWM)-driven B cell 
IgG synthesis and T cell response to recall antigen such as tetanus toxoid was
found within the 3H11-CD4 cell population, whereas anti-3H11+CD4+ cells provided 
poor helper function for PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis and were more responsive
to concanavalin A and autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction. Biochemical
characterization showed that anti-3H11 precipitated a single protein band with a 
relative molecular weight of 32,000 from 125I-surface labeled cell lysate.
Biochemical, phenotypic and functional studies revealed that the 3H11 molecule
appeared to be different from previously established molecules on the T cell
surface. Interestingly, addition of anti-3H11 to the combination of CD4 and B
cells in the presence of CD8 cells but not to the combination of CD4 and B cells 
resulted in enhancement of the suppression of PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis.
Moreover, anti-3H11 had a co-mitogenic effect on T cells via the CD2 and CD3
pathways, and this co-mitogenic activity is restricted to the CD45RA+ T cells.
Taken together, our results show that the 3H11 molecule is a novel antigen which 
may play an important role in the activation and function of the CD45RA+ subset
of T cells.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/6.8.1133 
PMID: 7981142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

