

3994. Int Immunol. 1994 Aug;6(8):1133-42.

3H11, a unique cell surface molecule involved in the function of the CD45RA+
subset of CD4+ cells.

Hirose T(1), Kobata T, Nojima Y, Schlossman SF, Morimoto C.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115.

We have developed a mAb anti-3H11 by immunizing mice with a T cell line derived
from the Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset). Anti-3H11 is reactive with
approximately 48% of unfractionated T cells, 62% of CD4+ cells and 39% of CD8+
cells. Among CD4 cells, anti-3H11 preferentially reacts with the CD45RA+ T cell
subset. The majority of helper activity for pokeweed mitogen (PWM)-driven B cell 
IgG synthesis and T cell response to recall antigen such as tetanus toxoid was
found within the 3H11-CD4 cell population, whereas anti-3H11+CD4+ cells provided 
poor helper function for PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis and were more responsive
to concanavalin A and autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction. Biochemical
characterization showed that anti-3H11 precipitated a single protein band with a 
relative molecular weight of 32,000 from 125I-surface labeled cell lysate.
Biochemical, phenotypic and functional studies revealed that the 3H11 molecule
appeared to be different from previously established molecules on the T cell
surface. Interestingly, addition of anti-3H11 to the combination of CD4 and B
cells in the presence of CD8 cells but not to the combination of CD4 and B cells 
resulted in enhancement of the suppression of PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis.
Moreover, anti-3H11 had a co-mitogenic effect on T cells via the CD2 and CD3
pathways, and this co-mitogenic activity is restricted to the CD45RA+ T cells.
Taken together, our results show that the 3H11 molecule is a novel antigen which 
may play an important role in the activation and function of the CD45RA+ subset
of T cells.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/6.8.1133 
PMID: 7981142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3995. J Med Primatol. 1994 Aug;23(6):333-6.

Nonsurgical uterine stage preimplantation embryo collection from the common
marmoset.

Thomson JA(1), Kalishman J, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison
53715-1299.

A nonsurgical technique for the recovery of uterine stage preimplantation embryos
was developed for the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). In 54 flush attempts,
using 19 different animals, 54 morphologically normal embryos, seven unfertilized
oocytes or degenerate embryos, and five empty zonae pellucidae were recovered,
giving a recovery rate of 1.0 embryo per flush or 1.2 ovulation products per
flush. Because the ovarian cycles of common marmosets can be synchronized with
prostaglandin PGF2 alpha, multiple marmosets can be flushed in a short period,
providing age-matched embryos for controlled experiments.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1994.tb00295.x 
PMID: 7897640  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

