

3996. J Med Primatol. 1994 Aug;23(6):325-32.

Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical studies in callitrichid renal glomeruli.

Brack M(1), Weber M.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Department of Pathology and Veterinary Services,
GÃ¶ttingen.

The "normal" mesangium of callitrichids exhibits certain features pointing to
enhanced activity. Protrusions of the mesangial cellular cytoplasm (blebs) into
the capillary lumen were observed very frequently as were electron-dense granules
in mesangial matrix channels. Histochemical, alpha-actin expression was
invariably observed in the mesangial cells of callitrichids.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1994.tb00294.x 
PMID: 7897639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3997. Mol Neurobiol. 1994 Aug-Dec;9(1-3):207-23.

Behavioral assessment of the ability of intracerebral embryonic neural tissue
grafts to ameliorate the effects of brain damage in marmosets.

Ridley RM(1), Baker HF, Annett LE, Dunnett SB, Torres EM, Fine A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie
University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

The transplantation of neuronal tissue into the brains of patients with
Parkinson's disease is already being assessed as an experimental treatment for
the symptoms of this disease, and the possibility of using similar graft tissue
to ameliorate the symptoms of other neurodegenerative diseases is being
considered. In this context, a small number of transplant experiments have been
carried out in monkeys with lesions of the central dopamine and cholinergic
systems. These experiments make it possible to determine the optimum methods of
transplantation in an animal whose brain is structurally more closely related to 
the human than that of the rat and to assess the behavioral consequences of
transplantation on symptoms that either resemble very closely the symptoms seen
in patients, or are of a complex cognitive nature and are therefore more
difficult to measure in the rat. It is intended that these experiments will
contribute to the development of better treatments for the neurodegenerative
diseases, either by the use of transplantation as a clinical treatment, or by
contributing to a better understanding of the mechanisms that normally maintain
neuronal function and that fail in these diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02816120 
PMID: 7888097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

