

4002. Virology. 1994 Jul;202(1):16-24.

Modulation of vimentin, the CD40 activation antigen and Burkitt's lymphoma
antigen (CD77) by the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen EBNA-4.

Silins SL(1), Sculley TB.

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Bancroft Centre, Brisbane, Australia
4029.

The growth transformation of human B cells by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is
controlled by the coordinate expression of 10 latent viral genes. This
transforming capacity is believed to be fundamental to the involvement of the
virus in human malignancies of B cell origin. EBV-negative Burkitt's lymphoma
(dG75) clones stably expressing one of these EBV-coded antigens, EBNA-4, have
been established using an episomal-based plasmid. EBNA-4 expression was found to 
upregulate the cytoskeletal protein vimentin as well as surface expression of the
activation antigen CD40. In addition, the presence of EBNA-4 resulted in
downregulation of the Burkitt's lymphoma-associated antigen (BLA/CD77). These
studies show for the first time that EBNA-4 modulates the expression of several
cellular genes implicated in cell-growth transformation.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1994.1317 
PMID: 8009829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4003. J Chromatogr B Biomed Appl. 1994 Jul 1;657(1):155-61.

Quantitative determination of CGP 53,437, a new HIV protease inhibitor, in plasma
by high-performance liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection.

Flesch G(1), Mann C, Boss E, Lang M, Degen PH, Dieterle W.

Author information: 
(1)Ciba-Geigy Ltd, Basle, Switzerland.

A specific and sensitive liquid chromatographic assay for CGP 53,437 (I), a
potent HIV protease inhibitor, is described. The method is based on a
deproteinization step, followed by a liquid-liquid extraction with diisopropyl
ether. Then a deprotection step of the primary amine and derivatization using
fluorescamine is performed. Chromatography is achieved by isocratic elution with 
a mobile phase of 63 mM borax buffer (pH 9)-acetonitrile (58:42, v/v). The
flow-rate of the mobile phase is 1 ml/min. The derivatives of compound I and its 
internal standard CGP 54,451, II, fluoresce at 480 nm on excitation at 395 nm.
The limit of quantitation which is the lowest concentration of the analyte that
can be measured with a coefficient of variation and a deviation from theory of
less than 20%, was 5 nmol/l plasma. The analyte is stable for at least seven
months in spiked human plasma samples. It is also stable after freezing and
thawing cycles. Different human plasma sources and plasma samples from three
different species (dog, marmoset, and rat) were tested and no interferences from 
plasma constituents was observed.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-4347(94)80082-0 
PMID: 7952063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

