

4003. J Chromatogr B Biomed Appl. 1994 Jul 1;657(1):155-61.

Quantitative determination of CGP 53,437, a new HIV protease inhibitor, in plasma
by high-performance liquid chromatography and fluorescence detection.

Flesch G(1), Mann C, Boss E, Lang M, Degen PH, Dieterle W.

Author information: 
(1)Ciba-Geigy Ltd, Basle, Switzerland.

A specific and sensitive liquid chromatographic assay for CGP 53,437 (I), a
potent HIV protease inhibitor, is described. The method is based on a
deproteinization step, followed by a liquid-liquid extraction with diisopropyl
ether. Then a deprotection step of the primary amine and derivatization using
fluorescamine is performed. Chromatography is achieved by isocratic elution with 
a mobile phase of 63 mM borax buffer (pH 9)-acetonitrile (58:42, v/v). The
flow-rate of the mobile phase is 1 ml/min. The derivatives of compound I and its 
internal standard CGP 54,451, II, fluoresce at 480 nm on excitation at 395 nm.
The limit of quantitation which is the lowest concentration of the analyte that
can be measured with a coefficient of variation and a deviation from theory of
less than 20%, was 5 nmol/l plasma. The analyte is stable for at least seven
months in spiked human plasma samples. It is also stable after freezing and
thawing cycles. Different human plasma sources and plasma samples from three
different species (dog, marmoset, and rat) were tested and no interferences from 
plasma constituents was observed.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-4347(94)80082-0 
PMID: 7952063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4004. Am J Physiol. 1994 Jul;267(1 Pt 2):R115-23.

beta-Adrenergic control of lipolysis in primate white fat cells: a comparative
study with nonprimate mammals.

Bousquet-Mélou A(1), Galitzky J, Carpéné C, Lafontan M, Berlan M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale Unité 317, Faculté
de Médecine, Université Paul Sabatier, Toulouse, France.

The beta-adrenoceptor subtypes involved in the control of lipolysis in white fat 
cells of rat, dog, marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), baboon (Papio papio), macaque
(Macaca fascicularis), and human were compared. In all species [3H]CGP-12177
binding (up to 3 nM) indicated the existence of a homogeneous population of
binding sites in fat cell membranes, and competition studies showed that beta 1- 
and beta 2-adrenoceptors were present. Selective beta 1 or beta 2-adrenoceptor
agonists induced lipolysis. The efficiencies of isoproterenol and norepinephrine 
were similar. The use of selective beta 3-adrenoceptor agonists revealed that
BRL-37344 and CL-316243 were full agonists, whereas CGP-12177 and SR-58611A were 
partial agonists in rat and dog white fat cells. beta 3-Agonists partially
stimulated lipolysis in the marmoset, while CGP-12177 was weakly active in the
baboon. In macaque and human fat cells, beta 3-agonists were ineffective. The
lipolytic effect of norepinephrine involves beta 1-and/or beta 2-adrenoceptors in
baboon, macaque, and human. The baboon and macaque constitute valuable models for
studying the beta-adrenergic control of lipolysis.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.1994.267.1.R115 
PMID: 7914069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

