

4004. Am J Physiol. 1994 Jul;267(1 Pt 2):R115-23.

beta-Adrenergic control of lipolysis in primate white fat cells: a comparative
study with nonprimate mammals.

Bousquet-Mélou A(1), Galitzky J, Carpéné C, Lafontan M, Berlan M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale Unité 317, Faculté
de Médecine, Université Paul Sabatier, Toulouse, France.

The beta-adrenoceptor subtypes involved in the control of lipolysis in white fat 
cells of rat, dog, marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), baboon (Papio papio), macaque
(Macaca fascicularis), and human were compared. In all species [3H]CGP-12177
binding (up to 3 nM) indicated the existence of a homogeneous population of
binding sites in fat cell membranes, and competition studies showed that beta 1- 
and beta 2-adrenoceptors were present. Selective beta 1 or beta 2-adrenoceptor
agonists induced lipolysis. The efficiencies of isoproterenol and norepinephrine 
were similar. The use of selective beta 3-adrenoceptor agonists revealed that
BRL-37344 and CL-316243 were full agonists, whereas CGP-12177 and SR-58611A were 
partial agonists in rat and dog white fat cells. beta 3-Agonists partially
stimulated lipolysis in the marmoset, while CGP-12177 was weakly active in the
baboon. In macaque and human fat cells, beta 3-agonists were ineffective. The
lipolytic effect of norepinephrine involves beta 1-and/or beta 2-adrenoceptors in
baboon, macaque, and human. The baboon and macaque constitute valuable models for
studying the beta-adrenergic control of lipolysis.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.1994.267.1.R115 
PMID: 7914069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4005. Toxicol Pathol. 1994 Jul-Aug;22(4):440-5.

Spontaneous adrenal and hepatic myelolipomas in the common marmoset.

Kakinuma C(1), Harada T, Watanabe M, Shibutani Y.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Laboratory, Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan.

Myelolipomas occurring simultaneously in the adrenal and liver were found in a
2.7-yr-old, bred female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The animal bore
single adrenal and multiple hepatic myelolipomas. The adrenal myelolipoma
consisted of mature adipose cells and focal collections of normal hematopoietic
elements and was unencapsulated. In the liver, the myelolipomas, which were
partially encapsulated, included a large amount of hematopoietic tissue and
adipose cells that resembled normal bone marrow cells in various ways.
Additionally, one of the multiple nodules contained several bony spicules with
osteoblasts. Furthermore, there were invasive figures of hematopoietic cells,
such as myeloblasts, erythroblasts, and megakaryocytes, in the hepatic sinusoids 
around the lesions. Thus, this case has some unusual morphological
characteristics and is the first report, to our knowledge, on multiorganic
myelolipomas in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1177/019262339402200410 
PMID: 7817133  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

