

401. Behav Brain Res. 2020 Feb 3;379:112334. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112334. Epub 2019
Nov 4.

Sex, diurnal variation and retention interval differently affect performance of
marmoset monkeys in a recognition memory task for object location.

Vannuchi CRS(1), Costa CS(1), de Jesus FM(1), Maior RS(2), Barros M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasília, 70910-900, Brasilia, Brazil; Primate Center, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University 
of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil. Electronic address: mbarros@unb.br.

In the spontaneous object-location (SOL) task, the ability to recognize where
stimuli were located in a past encounter is assessed. Even if widely used in
rodents, several aspects can affect task performance. It is thus important to
assess potentially intervening variables in the new monkey SOL task. Here we
assessed whether sex (male vs. females), circadian time (morning vs. afternoon)
and retention interval (24 vs. 48 h) affect the performance of adult marmosets in
this task. Two identical stimuli were initially explored on a 10-min sample
trial. Thereafter, preferential exploration of the displaced vs. the stationary
object was analyzed on a 10-min test trial. Both sexes similarly explored the
displaced object quicker and longer than the stationary item after a 24 h
inter-trial interval. This response pattern was also seen when males were
similarly assessed in the morning or afternoon. However, males tested after 48 h 
explored both objects equally and after a similar latency, yet spent more time
where the displaced item had been previously located. Task performance was not
related to object exploration during encoding and general activity remained
constant. Therefore, sex and diurnal variation in circadian time had no effect on
this version of the task, whereas place memory naturally decayed after 24 h. Our 
results underscore the importance of alternative task parameters to evaluate
memory decay. Given the widespread use of spontaneous recognition tasks, a more
ecologically-inclined task in monkeys will help translate animal data to clinical
research.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112334 
PMID: 31697981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. PLoS One. 2019 Nov 7;14(11):e0224950. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0224950.
eCollection 2019.

Evaluating rectal swab collection method for gut microbiome analysis in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Artim SC(1), Sheh A(1), Burns MA(1), Fox JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is increasingly used as an animal model 
for biomedical research; however, gastrointestinal diseases causing significant
morbidity are endemic in many captive marmoset colonies. Establishing gut
microbiome patterns in a marmoset colony may aid in clinical decision-making and 
model reproducibility. A standardized method of sample collection and storage is 
essential for proper interpretation of microbiome data. While microbiome studies 
commonly utilize fecal samples, the goal of this study was to determine whether
the microbiome profile from a rectal swab performed on a sedated animal was
comparable to the microbiome profile from a fecal sample. During routine physical
exams, paired fecal and rectal swab samples were collected from each of 23
marmosets. DNA was extracted from all fecal and rectal swab samples and 16S
ribosomal RNA gene sequences were amplified and analyzed. Initial comparison of
the relative abundance of bacterial phyla between paired samples had a r2 value
of 0.70 with S of 0.08 with no significant differences in α and β diversity
metrics between fecal and rectal samples. Initial analysis however, revealed 5
discordant fecal-rectal pairs which corresponded only with the 5 rectal swabs
that were classified as free of visible fecal matter during collection. Exclusion
of these 5 pairs resulted in an optimized fit of the data as evidenced by a r2
value of 0.91 with S of 0.05. These results demonstrate that rectal swabs are a
reliable method for profiling the fecal microbiome in the marmoset since the
bacterial composition from a rectal swab with visible fecal contents correlated
well with the bacterial composition from a fecal sample from the same marmoset.
This study highlights the importance of standardized sample collection methods
and exclusion of inappropriate samples.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0224950 
PMCID: PMC6837755
PMID: 31697779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

