

4011. J Endocrinol. 1994 Jun;141(3):439-47.

Blockade of the neonatal rise in testosterone by a gonadotrophin-releasing
hormone antagonist: effects on timing of puberty and sexual behaviour in the male
marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Recio R, Morris K, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

In primates, plasma testosterone concentrations are elevated for some 3 months
from birth. The function of this rise is uncertain, but studies in rats suggest
that its prevention by castration or administration of gonadotrophin
hormone-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues has effects on development and
expression of social and sexual behaviours, and adverse long-term effects on
fertility. The consequences of suppression of this rise in testosterone by
treatment with the GnRH antagonist antide have been investigated in the marmoset 
monkey. Eight sets of male:male twins were used, one of each set receiving s.c.
injections of antide (10 mg/kg), on days 0, 3 and 7, then weekly from birth to 98
days of age, with the twin receiving vehicle only. Plasma samples were taken at
weekly intervals for the determination of testosterone concentrations from birth 
until 2 years of age. Treatment with antide completely abolished the neonatal
rise in testosterone seen in control animals. The timing of the onset of the
pubertal testosterone rise was not significantly affected by treatment; however, 
the subsequent pattern of circulating testosterone showed a tendency to decreased
plasma concentrations in the neonatally treated group from weeks 25 to 42,
relative to controls, and this difference was significant between 43 and 70
weeks. This was associated with a similar depression in bioactive LH
concentrations around this time. Thereafter, the testosterone concentrations were
similar between treated and control groups. There was no effect of treatment on
growth, based on sequential body weight data. At 20 months the animals underwent 
behaviour tests with ovariectomized females.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1410439 
PMID: 8071642  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4012. J Endocrinol. 1994 Jun;141(3):403-9.

LH- and chorionic gonadotrophin-stimulated progesterone release in vitro by
intact luteal tissue of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The application of an in vitro microdialysis system (MDS) for studies on the
gonadotrophic control of luteal progesterone secretion in the marmoset monkey is 
described. Luteal tissue collected from a total of six animals (9 +/- 1 days
after ovulation) was perfused with Ringer solution (without and with lipoprotein,
0.6 microgram/ml). The tissue was exposed to repeated applications of human LH
(hLH) and human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) (1, 10 and 100 IU/ml) each of 60
min duration. Perfusate was collected in 15-min fractions and assayed for
progesterone content. Results showed that addition of lipoproteins to the Ringer 
solution had a marked effect of progesterone secretion in terms of maintaining
stable baseline levels and improving reproducibility of gonadotrophin-induced
responses. Progesterone secretion was significantly stimulated by both
gonadotrophins at each dose tested. Maximal elevations were obtained with 10
IU/ml and there were no apparent differences in responses to hLH and hCG in terms
of either magnitude or duration. This study indicates that MDS provides a useful 
in vitro approach for studying the gonadotrophic control of the corpus luteum in 
non-human primates. The results did not demonstrate disparate actions of hLH and 
hCG in their ability to stimulate luteal progesterone secretion.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1410403 
PMID: 8071639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

