

4012. J Endocrinol. 1994 Jun;141(3):403-9.

LH- and chorionic gonadotrophin-stimulated progesterone release in vitro by
intact luteal tissue of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The application of an in vitro microdialysis system (MDS) for studies on the
gonadotrophic control of luteal progesterone secretion in the marmoset monkey is 
described. Luteal tissue collected from a total of six animals (9 +/- 1 days
after ovulation) was perfused with Ringer solution (without and with lipoprotein,
0.6 microgram/ml). The tissue was exposed to repeated applications of human LH
(hLH) and human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) (1, 10 and 100 IU/ml) each of 60
min duration. Perfusate was collected in 15-min fractions and assayed for
progesterone content. Results showed that addition of lipoproteins to the Ringer 
solution had a marked effect of progesterone secretion in terms of maintaining
stable baseline levels and improving reproducibility of gonadotrophin-induced
responses. Progesterone secretion was significantly stimulated by both
gonadotrophins at each dose tested. Maximal elevations were obtained with 10
IU/ml and there were no apparent differences in responses to hLH and hCG in terms
of either magnitude or duration. This study indicates that MDS provides a useful 
in vitro approach for studying the gonadotrophic control of the corpus luteum in 
non-human primates. The results did not demonstrate disparate actions of hLH and 
hCG in their ability to stimulate luteal progesterone secretion.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1410403 
PMID: 8071639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4013. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 1994 Jun;74(2):123-31.

The lack of v-src involvement in tumorigenicity of marmoset cells transformed in 
vitro with Rous sarcoma virus.

Marczynska B(1), Khoobyarian N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Illinois at Chicago
60612.

The transformation of nonhuman primate marmoset cells by Rous sarcoma virus of
Schmidt-Ruppin strain (RSV-SR) generates transformants which lack tumorigenicity 
in allo- and xenogeneic hosts. Marmoset cells acquire this property when they are
transformed by RSV rescued from non-tumorigenic allogeneic cells. One of the
rescued RSV, when used to infect marmoset kidney cells in vitro, yielded
transformants which became tumorigenic in adult allogeneic hosts. Cytogenetic and
molecular analyses of transformants revealed progressive genetic changes from
cell diploidy to aneuploidy and from the presence to the loss of v-src during
propagation in vitro. The loss of v-src in transformed cells coincided with the
evolution of aneuploid cell clone with specific marker chromosome (M1). Although 
both early passage diploid and late passage aneuploid transformants were
tumorigenic, the induced tumors originated from different type of cells. Tumors
induced by diploid- and v-src-positive transformants were derived predominantly
from the host cells, while tumors induced by late-passage transformants and with 
deleted v-src originated from an aneuploid cell clone that contained a rearranged
M1 marker chromosome. These results suggest that besides the v-src oncogene,
proviral integration can facilitate chromosomal rearrangements that contribute to
tumorigenic transformation of nonhuman primate cells in vitro.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-4608(94)90010-8 
PMID: 8019956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

