

4013. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 1994 Jun;74(2):123-31.

The lack of v-src involvement in tumorigenicity of marmoset cells transformed in 
vitro with Rous sarcoma virus.

Marczynska B(1), Khoobyarian N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Illinois at Chicago
60612.

The transformation of nonhuman primate marmoset cells by Rous sarcoma virus of
Schmidt-Ruppin strain (RSV-SR) generates transformants which lack tumorigenicity 
in allo- and xenogeneic hosts. Marmoset cells acquire this property when they are
transformed by RSV rescued from non-tumorigenic allogeneic cells. One of the
rescued RSV, when used to infect marmoset kidney cells in vitro, yielded
transformants which became tumorigenic in adult allogeneic hosts. Cytogenetic and
molecular analyses of transformants revealed progressive genetic changes from
cell diploidy to aneuploidy and from the presence to the loss of v-src during
propagation in vitro. The loss of v-src in transformed cells coincided with the
evolution of aneuploid cell clone with specific marker chromosome (M1). Although 
both early passage diploid and late passage aneuploid transformants were
tumorigenic, the induced tumors originated from different type of cells. Tumors
induced by diploid- and v-src-positive transformants were derived predominantly
from the host cells, while tumors induced by late-passage transformants and with 
deleted v-src originated from an aneuploid cell clone that contained a rearranged
M1 marker chromosome. These results suggest that besides the v-src oncogene,
proviral integration can facilitate chromosomal rearrangements that contribute to
tumorigenic transformation of nonhuman primate cells in vitro.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-4608(94)90010-8 
PMID: 8019956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4014. Comp Biochem Physiol Comp Physiol. 1994 Jun-Jul;108(2-3):445-9.

Dietary lipids and adipose tissue fatty acids in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Charnock JS(1), Poletti VM.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO, Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran Hill,
South Australia.

The fatty acid composition of marmoset monkey perirenal fat was examined after
long-term feeding of different lipid supplemented diets. Saturated fatty acid
supplementation significantly reduced linoleic acid; n-6 polyunsaturated fatty
acid (PUFA) supplementation decreased oleic acid but did not reduce the saturated
fatty acid content of perirenal fat. Dietary supplementation with fish oil also
reduced the level of linoleic acid but increased the level of palmitic acid as
well as that of the long-chain n-3 PUFAs. Perirenal fat levels of linoleic acid
and docosahexaenoic acid are reliable measures of n-6 and n-3 PUFA intake
respectively, but the levels of saturated fatty acids palmitic and stearic do not
accurately reflect the marmosets dietary intake.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(94)90117-1 
PMID: 7914864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

