

4014. Comp Biochem Physiol Comp Physiol. 1994 Jun-Jul;108(2-3):445-9.

Dietary lipids and adipose tissue fatty acids in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Charnock JS(1), Poletti VM.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO, Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran Hill,
South Australia.

The fatty acid composition of marmoset monkey perirenal fat was examined after
long-term feeding of different lipid supplemented diets. Saturated fatty acid
supplementation significantly reduced linoleic acid; n-6 polyunsaturated fatty
acid (PUFA) supplementation decreased oleic acid but did not reduce the saturated
fatty acid content of perirenal fat. Dietary supplementation with fish oil also
reduced the level of linoleic acid but increased the level of palmitic acid as
well as that of the long-chain n-3 PUFAs. Perirenal fat levels of linoleic acid
and docosahexaenoic acid are reliable measures of n-6 and n-3 PUFA intake
respectively, but the levels of saturated fatty acids palmitic and stearic do not
accurately reflect the marmosets dietary intake.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(94)90117-1 
PMID: 7914864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4015. Panminerva Med. 1994 Jun;36(2):53-6.

Mitochondrial abnormalities in nigral neurons of the marmoset and Macaca
fascicularis treated with MPTP.

Levi AC(1), Ravazzani R, de Mattei M.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Anatomia e Fisiologia, Universit√† degli Studi di Torino,
Italy.

In a previous study we observed the processes determining the cellular death in
nigral neurons of Macaca fascicularis and common Marmoset treated with MPTP. The 
purpose of this study is to consider, in substantia nigra neurons of the same
animals, mitochondrial abnormalities caused by neurotoxin. Three Macaca
fascicularis and 5 common Marmosets, respectively treated with 3 and 4 mg/kg of
MPTP dissolved in saline + 10% ethanol, were suppressed by means of an i.v.
injection phenobarbital. The substantia nigra, isolated from the mesencephalon,
has been examined under Electron Microscope. Different mitochondrial
abnormalities have been observed in nigral neurons: crystal abnormalities occur
more frequently than other alterations. They are correlated with various degrees 
of mitochondrial enlargement. Dissolution of the matrix induces formation of
spherical highly electron-dense inclusions of various volume and in different
number; they are probably lipoprotein. Laminar bodies and myelin-like figures are
determined by alterations of the external membrane. Particular roundish
organules, placed near normal mitochondria, are limited by fragments of membrane 
with a granular material, occasionally flowing in the cytoplasm. The biochemical 
hypothesis concerning the genesis of the observed abnormalities is discussed in
the present study.


PMID: 7831058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

