

4016. Biol Reprod. 1994 Jun;50(6):1216-22.

Oxytocin gene expression and oxytocin immunoactivity in the ovary of the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Ivell R, Rune G, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

Oxytocin was identified in ovaries recovered on Day 5 (+/- 1) of the luteal phase
from three female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). With use of a reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay, expression of mRNA for oxytocin
and oxytocin receptor was detected in both luteal tissue and in the ovarian
remnant. Evidence for ovarian synthesis of oxytocin was provided by
immunohistochemistry, which showed positive staining for oxytocin and neurophysin
in the cytoplasm of the luteal cells. Some luteal cells had a more intensely
stained perinuclear region than others for oxytocin immunoreactivity, whereas the
staining for neurophysin was evenly distributed. Granulosa and theca cells of
antral follicles also showed positive staining for oxytocin immunoreactivity; no 
reactivity was found in fibroblast or endothelial cells. Oxytocin
immunoreactivity was also detected in the luteal tissue of all animals by
immunoassay, with values ranging from 2.8 to 12.1 ng/g wet weight. The oxytocin
concentration for the ovarian remnant was either very low (0.55-0.75 ng/g wet
weight) or nondetectable (< 0.5 ng/g wet weight). Local production of oxytocin
within the ovary was suggested by the measurement of higher oxytocin
concentrations in the blood from ovaries containing corpora lutea compared with
peripheral blood. Collectively, these results provide evidence for ovarian
biosynthesis of oxytocin and suggest the possibility of a paracrine role in the
regulation of primate ovarian function.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod50.6.1216 
PMID: 7521674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4017. Cancer Res. 1994 May 15;54(10):2808-11.

Ultrastructural localization of BHRF1: an Epstein-Barr virus gene product which
has homology with bcl-2.

Hickish T(1), Robertson D, Clarke P, Hill M, di Stefano F, Clarke C, Cunningham
D.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphoma Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom.

BHRF1 is an Epstein-Barr virus encoded protein which has a 38% sequence
similarity with bcl-2 over the carboxyl portion. Like bcl-2, BHRF1 has been shown
to suppress programmed cell death from apoptosis. Previously BHRF1 has been
detected in mitochondrial, microsomal, and nuclear compartments by cell
fractionation analysis. In this study we have used the technique of
immunoelectron microscopy to define the ultrastructural distribution of the BHRF1
product in the EBV converted cell lines B95.8 and P3HR-1. The BHRF1 product was
localized at the periphery of the mitochondria in a pattern similar to that of
bcl-2 and by analogy with bcl-2 this is likely to be the functional destination. 
Sequence analysis of the BHRF1 protein disclosed similarity with the recently
described bcl-2 homologues bcl-x (32%) and bax (34%) over the carboxyl portion,
with several domains of complete identity. BHRF1 appears to be a member of a gene
family involved in the regulation of programmed cell death. The identity between 
BHRF1 and bcl-2, an apparent shared ability to abrogate apoptosis, and the common
ultrastructural localization is compelling and suggests that bcl-2 and BHRF1 are 
both functionally and mechanistically similar.


PMID: 8168114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

