

4017. Cancer Res. 1994 May 15;54(10):2808-11.

Ultrastructural localization of BHRF1: an Epstein-Barr virus gene product which
has homology with bcl-2.

Hickish T(1), Robertson D, Clarke P, Hill M, di Stefano F, Clarke C, Cunningham
D.

Author information: 
(1)Lymphoma Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, Surrey, United Kingdom.

BHRF1 is an Epstein-Barr virus encoded protein which has a 38% sequence
similarity with bcl-2 over the carboxyl portion. Like bcl-2, BHRF1 has been shown
to suppress programmed cell death from apoptosis. Previously BHRF1 has been
detected in mitochondrial, microsomal, and nuclear compartments by cell
fractionation analysis. In this study we have used the technique of
immunoelectron microscopy to define the ultrastructural distribution of the BHRF1
product in the EBV converted cell lines B95.8 and P3HR-1. The BHRF1 product was
localized at the periphery of the mitochondria in a pattern similar to that of
bcl-2 and by analogy with bcl-2 this is likely to be the functional destination. 
Sequence analysis of the BHRF1 protein disclosed similarity with the recently
described bcl-2 homologues bcl-x (32%) and bax (34%) over the carboxyl portion,
with several domains of complete identity. BHRF1 appears to be a member of a gene
family involved in the regulation of programmed cell death. The identity between 
BHRF1 and bcl-2, an apparent shared ability to abrogate apoptosis, and the common
ultrastructural localization is compelling and suggests that bcl-2 and BHRF1 are 
both functionally and mechanistically similar.


PMID: 8168114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4018. Sci Total Environ. 1994 May 2;145(1-2):1-6.

The gastrointestinal absorption of neptunium, plutonium and americium in a
primate (C. jacchus).

Ham GJ(1), Harrison JD, Popplewell DS, Garrod I, Wilson J, Dayan AD.

Author information: 
(1)National Radiological Protection Board, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, UK.

Mixtures of Np, Pu and Am were administered to primates (C. jacchus) by gastric
intubation to measure their fractional gastrointestinal absorption (f1 values).
The values obtained were about 2 x 10(-3) and 1 x 10(-3), respectively, for Np
and Pu administered as the citrate, and 2 x 10(-3) and 6 x 10(-4), respectively, 
for Pu and Am in potato. The significance of these values in terms of absorption 
in humans is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0048-9697(94)90293-3 
PMID: 8016624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

