

4018. Sci Total Environ. 1994 May 2;145(1-2):1-6.

The gastrointestinal absorption of neptunium, plutonium and americium in a
primate (C. jacchus).

Ham GJ(1), Harrison JD, Popplewell DS, Garrod I, Wilson J, Dayan AD.

Author information: 
(1)National Radiological Protection Board, Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, UK.

Mixtures of Np, Pu and Am were administered to primates (C. jacchus) by gastric
intubation to measure their fractional gastrointestinal absorption (f1 values).
The values obtained were about 2 x 10(-3) and 1 x 10(-3), respectively, for Np
and Pu administered as the citrate, and 2 x 10(-3) and 6 x 10(-4), respectively, 
for Pu and Am in potato. The significance of these values in terms of absorption 
in humans is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0048-9697(94)90293-3 
PMID: 8016624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4019. Carcinogenesis. 1994 May;15(5):829-36.

Contribution of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 to the activation of heterocyclic amines in
monkeys and human.

Edwards RJ(1), Murray BP, Murray S, Schulz T, Neubert D, Gant TW, Thorgeirsson
SS, Boobis AR, Davies DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
London, UK.

The activation of heterocyclic amines to mutagenic products by hepatic microsomal
fractions from cynomolgus monkey, marmoset monkey and man was compared with the
respective levels of cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP1A1 and CYP1A2. The rate of
activation of 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f] quinoxaline (MeIQx),
2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) and
2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) to mutagens by hepatic
microsomal fraction from cynomolgus monkey was very low. This was associated with
a lack of constitutive expression of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2. In contrast, human
hepatic microsomal fraction readily activates these heterocyclic amines and this 
is associated with constitutive expression of CYP1A2. Treatment of cynomolgus
monkey with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) causes a very modest
induction of CYP1A2, and a small increase in the activation of MeIQx and IQ.
However, there was marked induction of CYP1A1 which was accompanied by > 10-fold 
increases in PhIP activation and 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD),
7-methoxyresorufin O-demethylase (MROD) and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase
activities. Following treatment of cynomolgus monkey with 3-methylcholanthrene,
induction of CYP1A1, but not CYP1A2, was evident. In untreated marmoset monkey
the activations of MeIQx and PhIP, as well as phenacetin O-deethylase, EROD, MROD
and aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase activities, are similar to those in man,
although the activations of IQ and coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity are lower than
in man. The presence of constitutive CYP1A2, and the absence of CYP1A1, in the
liver of this species correspond to the situation in man. Treatment of marmoset
monkey with TCDD results in increased CYP1A2 levels (4-fold), accompanied by
proportional increases in the activation of MeIQx and IQ and phenacetin
O-deethylase, EROD and MROD activities. The activation of PhIP is increased
disproportionately, by 8-fold, most likely due to the activity of CYP1A1 which is
also induced by TCDD in this species. Overall, the hepatic metabolism of
heterocyclic amines by CYP1A enzymes in the untreated marmoset monkey resembles
that in human more closely than that in the cynomolgus monkey. Therefore,
marmoset monkey may be a more suitable model than the cynomolgus monkey for
carcinogenicity studies involving MeIQx and PhIP, but not IQ.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/15.5.829 
PMID: 8200083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

