

402. PLoS One. 2019 Nov 7;14(11):e0224950. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0224950.
eCollection 2019.

Evaluating rectal swab collection method for gut microbiome analysis in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Artim SC(1), Sheh A(1), Burns MA(1), Fox JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is increasingly used as an animal model 
for biomedical research; however, gastrointestinal diseases causing significant
morbidity are endemic in many captive marmoset colonies. Establishing gut
microbiome patterns in a marmoset colony may aid in clinical decision-making and 
model reproducibility. A standardized method of sample collection and storage is 
essential for proper interpretation of microbiome data. While microbiome studies 
commonly utilize fecal samples, the goal of this study was to determine whether
the microbiome profile from a rectal swab performed on a sedated animal was
comparable to the microbiome profile from a fecal sample. During routine physical
exams, paired fecal and rectal swab samples were collected from each of 23
marmosets. DNA was extracted from all fecal and rectal swab samples and 16S
ribosomal RNA gene sequences were amplified and analyzed. Initial comparison of
the relative abundance of bacterial phyla between paired samples had a r2 value
of 0.70 with S of 0.08 with no significant differences in α and β diversity
metrics between fecal and rectal samples. Initial analysis however, revealed 5
discordant fecal-rectal pairs which corresponded only with the 5 rectal swabs
that were classified as free of visible fecal matter during collection. Exclusion
of these 5 pairs resulted in an optimized fit of the data as evidenced by a r2
value of 0.91 with S of 0.05. These results demonstrate that rectal swabs are a
reliable method for profiling the fecal microbiome in the marmoset since the
bacterial composition from a rectal swab with visible fecal contents correlated
well with the bacterial composition from a fecal sample from the same marmoset.
This study highlights the importance of standardized sample collection methods
and exclusion of inappropriate samples.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0224950 
PMCID: PMC6837755
PMID: 31697779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


403. Hear Res. 2019 Dec;384:107811. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2019.107811. Epub 2019 Oct
9.

Rapid modulations of the vocal structure in marmoset monkeys.

Zhao L(1), Roy S(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
Electronic address: xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Humans and some animal species show flexibility in vocal production either
voluntarily or in response to environmental cues. Studies have shown rapid
spectrotemporal changes in speech or vocalizations during altered auditory
feedback in humans, songbirds and bats. Non-human primates, however, have long
been considered lacking the ability to modify spectrotemporal structures of their
vocalizations. Here we tested the ability of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate species to alter spectral and temporal
structures of their species-specific vocalizations in the presence of
perturbation signals. By presenting perturbation noises while marmosets were
vocalizing phee calls, we showed that they were able to change in real-time the
duration or spectral trajectory of an ongoing phee phrase by either terminating
it before its completion, making rapid shifts in fundamental frequency or in some
cases prolonging the duration beyond the natural range of phee calls. In some
animals, we observed fragmented phee calls which were not produced by marmosets
in their natural environment. Interestingly, some perturbation-induced changes
persisted even in the absence of the perturbation noises. These observations
provide further evidence that marmoset monkeys are capable of rapidly modulating 
their vocal structure and suggested potential voluntary vocal control by this
non-human primate species.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2019.107811 
PMID: 31678893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

