

4024. Blood. 1994 Apr 15;83(8):2093-102.

Long-term interleukin-6 administration stimulates sustained thrombopoiesis and
acute-phase protein synthesis in a small primate--the marmoset.

Ryffel B(1), Car BD, Woerly G, Weber M, DiPadova F, Kamm√ºller M, Klug S, Neubert 
R, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University of Zurich, Institute of Toxicology, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

Interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been ascribed significant roles in both hematopoiesis
and the immune response, although its contribution to host defence as a whole is 
poorly understood. Because short-term IL-6 treatment was previously shown to
stimulate megakaryocytopoiesis, we investigated the effect of long-term
administration of IL-6 on megakaryocytopoiesis and other systemic parameters in
nonhuman primates. We chose a small primate, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
which enabled long-term administration at high doses. Recombinant human IL-6
(rhIL-6) administered at doses of up to 1,000 micrograms/kg/d over 4 and 9 weeks 
caused a sustained twofold to threefold increase of thrombocyte counts, peaking
at 4 weeks. Thrombocyte counts declined thereafter, despite continuing IL-6
administration. The number of bone marrow megakaryocytes at 4 and 9 weeks was not
increased compared with controls, but the ploidy grade was augmented, suggesting 
that IL-6 effects are restricted to mature megakaryocytes in vivo. An acute-phase
protein response was observed within 24 hours after the first IL-6 administration
and reached a maximum after 1 week of IL-6 administration at 25 micrograms/kg.
Serum C-reactive protein, haptoglobin, and ceruloplasmin were increased, whereas 
albumin and transferrin levels declined. The acute-phase protein response was not
associated with any morphologic evidence of hepatocellular damage. The increased 
levels of Ig and soluble IL-2 receptor in the serum levels reflected systemic
immunostimulation. There was no evidence of renal mesangioproliferative
pathology. Antibodies against rhIL-6 developed within 2 weeks, continuously
increasing during the course of the study. High titers of neutralizing antibodies
appeared concomitantly with the decrease in platelet counts and decline in
acute-phase proteins. Therefore, despite the pleiotropic effects of IL-6 observed
in vitro, long-term administration of IL-6 caused a selective and sustained
stimulation of thrombopoiesis in marmosets that was only ablated by the
appearance of neutralizing antibodies, and high doses were well tolerated in
marmosets. A long-term targeting of IL-6 to cells of the megakaryocytic lineage, 
without evoking general toxicity, confirms the potential therapeutic usefulness
of rhIL-6 for the chronic treatment of thrombocytopenic patients.


PMID: 7512839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4025. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1994 Apr;103(4):161-73.

[Hypotensive action of human renin inhibitor KRI-1314 in the common marmoset].

[Article in Japanese]

Saitoh H(1), Etoh Y, Murakami M, Kubota T, Miyazaki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Osaka Medical College, Japan.

The possibility of using KRI-1314, a new cyclohexylnorstatine derivative, as an
antihypertensive drug was examined using common marmosets. KRI-1314 strongly
inhibited plasma renin activity (PRA) in both humans and marmosets, with a 50%
inhibitory concentration of 4.7 x 10(-9) and 6.9 x 10(-9) M, respectively. In
anesthetized marmosets, the increase in both blood pressure and PRA induced by
bolus intravenous injection of RH-renin (0.15 microgram/kg) was suppressed by
constant intravenous infusion of KRI-1314 (0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg/min) in a
dose-dependent manner. In the sustained hypertension induced by continuous
intravenous infusion of RH-renin (0.1 microgram/kg/min), a dose-dependent
hypotensive response was produced by bolus intravenous injection of KRI-1314
(0.03-3 mg/kg). In the sodium-depleted model, whose PRA was increased by a
two-week low-sodium diet coupled with furosemide loading, both intravenous
injection (0.1-3 mg/kg) and oral administration (10 and 30 mg/kg) of KRI-1314 to 
anesthetized and conscious animals, respectively, lowered blood pressure
dose-dependently with PRA suppression. The hypotensive activity of orally
administered KRI-1314 (30 mg/kg) was almost equal to that of orally administered 
captopril (1 mg/kg). KRI-1314 did not affect heart rate in any of the
experiments. These results indicate that the potent human renin inhibitor
KRI-1314 may become an orally effective drug for treating renin-dependent
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.103.161 
PMID: 8175079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

