

4025. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1994 Apr;103(4):161-73.

[Hypotensive action of human renin inhibitor KRI-1314 in the common marmoset].

[Article in Japanese]

Saitoh H(1), Etoh Y, Murakami M, Kubota T, Miyazaki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Osaka Medical College, Japan.

The possibility of using KRI-1314, a new cyclohexylnorstatine derivative, as an
antihypertensive drug was examined using common marmosets. KRI-1314 strongly
inhibited plasma renin activity (PRA) in both humans and marmosets, with a 50%
inhibitory concentration of 4.7 x 10(-9) and 6.9 x 10(-9) M, respectively. In
anesthetized marmosets, the increase in both blood pressure and PRA induced by
bolus intravenous injection of RH-renin (0.15 microgram/kg) was suppressed by
constant intravenous infusion of KRI-1314 (0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg/min) in a
dose-dependent manner. In the sustained hypertension induced by continuous
intravenous infusion of RH-renin (0.1 microgram/kg/min), a dose-dependent
hypotensive response was produced by bolus intravenous injection of KRI-1314
(0.03-3 mg/kg). In the sodium-depleted model, whose PRA was increased by a
two-week low-sodium diet coupled with furosemide loading, both intravenous
injection (0.1-3 mg/kg) and oral administration (10 and 30 mg/kg) of KRI-1314 to 
anesthetized and conscious animals, respectively, lowered blood pressure
dose-dependently with PRA suppression. The hypotensive activity of orally
administered KRI-1314 (30 mg/kg) was almost equal to that of orally administered 
captopril (1 mg/kg). KRI-1314 did not affect heart rate in any of the
experiments. These results indicate that the potent human renin inhibitor
KRI-1314 may become an orally effective drug for treating renin-dependent
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.103.161 
PMID: 8175079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4026. Eur J Biochem. 1994 Apr 1;221(1):53-62.

Molecular evolution of alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase 1 intracellular
targeting. Analysis of the feline gene.

Lumb MJ(1), Purdue PE, Danpure CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemical Genetics Research Group, MRC Clinical Research Centre, Harrow,
England.

The subcellular distribution of hepatic alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase 1
(AGT) has changed, under the influence of dietary selection pressure, on several 
o occasions during the evolution of mammals. In some species (e.g. human and
rabbit) AGT is entirely peroxisomal; in other species (e.g. marmoset and rat)
this enzyme is found in similar amounts in peroxisomes and mitochondria; in yet
other species (e.g. cat) it is mainly mitochondrial. The molecular basis of the
species-specific dual intracellular targeting of AGT has been partially
elucidated in the human and rabbit (as examples of the first group), and in the
rat and marmoset (as examples of the second group). As part of a wider study on
the molecular evolution of AGT intracellular targeting, we report in the present 
paper the results of an investigation into the molecular basis of the subcellular
distribution of AGT in the cat (as an example of the third group). Cat liver AGT 
cDNA has been cloned and sequenced, and shown to have a high degree of similarity
to AGT from human, rabbit, marmoset and rat. Southern-blotting analysis showed
that AGT in the cat is probably encoded by a single gene, as it is in other
species. Transcript analysis by RNase protection indicated that almost all of the
AGT mRNA would possess an open reading frame encoding a polypeptide of 414 amino 
acids and a molecular mass of 45,508 Da. The N-terminal 22 amino acids comprised 
the putative mitochondrial-targeting sequence (by analogy with the equivalent
sequence in marmoset and rat pre-mitochondrial AGT). The very low level of
peroxisomal AGT in cat liver is compatible with the absence of any
RNase-protected transcripts initiating downstream of the first putative
translation initiation codon (i.e. absence of any transcripts in which the
mitochondrial-targeting sequence is excluded from the open reading frame). In
vitro studies showed that the 45 kDa polypeptide was imported into rat liver
mitochondria and processed to a mature protein of approximately 43 kDa,
compatible with the cleavage of the N-terminal 22 amino acids, as is also the
case in rat and marmoset. A polypeptide in which the N-terminal 22 amino acids
was absent could not be imported into mitochondria in vitro.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1994.tb18714.x 
PMID: 8168541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

