

4027. Glycobiology. 1994 Apr;4(2):193-201.

Defining the minimal size of catalytically active primate alpha 1,3
galactosyltransferase: structure-function studies on the recombinant truncated
enzyme.

Henion TR(1), Macher BA, Anaraki F, Galili U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical College of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia 19129.

The glycosylation enzyme alpha 1,3 galactosyltransferase, which synthesizes the
carbohydrate Gal alpha 1-3Gal beta 1-4GlcNAc-R, is active in non-primate mammals,
prosimians and New World monkeys, but not in Old World monkeys, apes and humans. 
In this study, we have cloned and sequenced the enzyme expressed in a New World
monkey, determined the exact size of the stem region and assessed the minimal
size of catalytically active alpha 1,3 galactosyltransferase (alpha 1,3GT).
Various primer sets were used in the polymerase chain reaction to generate cDNAs 
which coded for forms of alpha 1,3GT with deletions at the N- or C-terminal
domains. The cDNA was inserted into the expression vector pPROTA which contains
the coding sequence for protein A, and subsequently transfected into COS cells.
The soluble chimeric products (truncated enzyme and protein A) were harvested
from the cell culture medium using IgG-Sepharose beads and assayed for enzymatic 
activity. As many as 67 amino acids could be truncated at the amino terminal
region of the luminal portion of the enzyme without affecting its catalytic
activity. Truncation of 68, 69 and 74 amino acids resulted in a 50, 75 and > 95% 
loss in the in vitro catalytic actively, respectively. Introduction of a
frameshift mutation which is characteristic of apes and human alpha 1,3GT gene
resulted in the complete loss of enzyme activity. Moreover, truncation of as few 
as three amino acids at the carboxyl end of alpha 1,3GT resulted in complete loss
of the catalytic activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/4.2.193 
PMID: 8054718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4028. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1994 Apr;47(4):879-81.

A simple automated test to measure exploratory and motor activity of marmosets.

Wolthuis OL(1), Groen B, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Biological Laboratory TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

An automated device is described to test the exploratory and motor activity of
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The device consists of four boxes
interconnected by PVC tubes. The presence of an animal in a box is detected by a 
photocell. Calibration takes place with an electric model train. Movements of the
animal from one box to another are detected by disappearance from one and
appearance in another box. The apparatus is linked to a PC. The effects of two
doses of methamphetamine and of pentobarbital are shown.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(94)90291-7 
PMID: 8029258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

