

4029. Neurology. 1994 Mar;44(3 Pt 1):573; author reply 575-7.

Tissue transplants for PD.

Ridley RM, Baker HF, Dunnett SB, Annett LE.

Comment in
    Neurology. 1994 Jun;44(5):992.

Comment on
    Neurology. 1993 Apr;43(4):644-9.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.44.3_part_1.573 
PMID: 8179706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4030. Biol Reprod. 1994 Mar;50(3):502-9.

Immunohistological localization of clusterin in the male genital tract in humans 
and marmosets.

O'Bryan MK(1), Mallidis C, Murphy BF, Baker HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, St. Vincent's Hospital, Parkville, Victoria,
Australia.

Clusterin is a multifunctional protein, first described in the reproductive
tracts of the rat and the ram. It is produced by several cell types and exists in
at least two differentially glycosylated forms. The aim of this study was to
extend knowledge of clusterin expression in the primate (human and marmoset) male
reproductive tracts by means of clusterin-specific immunohistochemical
techniques. In both normal and abnormal testicular tissue, clusterin was found in
association with Sertoli cells, lumenal sperm, proacrosomal Golgi complexes,
residual bodies, and degenerating germ cells. The major differences observed
between the two groups were attributable primarily to morphological differences
rather than to clusterin expression specifically. There was no correlation
between testicular clusterin content and the cause and severity of spermatogenic 
disorders. Within normal epididymides, regional differences in clusterin staining
similar to those reported in the rat were observed. The seminal vesicles
contained large amounts of positive clusterin staining, whereas normal human
prostate was completely negative. Low levels of clusterin expression were
observed in the marmoset prostate. This study suggests that clusterin is an
important and widespread product in the human and marmoset reproductive tracts
and is likely to have a role in spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod50.3.502 
PMID: 8167221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

