

403. Hear Res. 2019 Dec;384:107811. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2019.107811. Epub 2019 Oct
9.

Rapid modulations of the vocal structure in marmoset monkeys.

Zhao L(1), Roy S(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
Electronic address: xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Humans and some animal species show flexibility in vocal production either
voluntarily or in response to environmental cues. Studies have shown rapid
spectrotemporal changes in speech or vocalizations during altered auditory
feedback in humans, songbirds and bats. Non-human primates, however, have long
been considered lacking the ability to modify spectrotemporal structures of their
vocalizations. Here we tested the ability of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate species to alter spectral and temporal
structures of their species-specific vocalizations in the presence of
perturbation signals. By presenting perturbation noises while marmosets were
vocalizing phee calls, we showed that they were able to change in real-time the
duration or spectral trajectory of an ongoing phee phrase by either terminating
it before its completion, making rapid shifts in fundamental frequency or in some
cases prolonging the duration beyond the natural range of phee calls. In some
animals, we observed fragmented phee calls which were not produced by marmosets
in their natural environment. Interestingly, some perturbation-induced changes
persisted even in the absence of the perturbation noises. These observations
provide further evidence that marmoset monkeys are capable of rapidly modulating 
their vocal structure and suggested potential voluntary vocal control by this
non-human primate species.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2019.107811 
PMID: 31678893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Nat Commun. 2019 Oct 31;10(1):4970. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-12956-2.

Plasticity of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis respiratory chain and its impact on 
tuberculosis drug development.

Beites T(1), O'Brien K(1), Tiwari D(1), Engelhart CA(1), Walters S(1)(2), Andrews
J(3), Yang HJ(3), Sutphen ML(3), Weiner DM(3), Dayao EK(3), Zimmerman M(4),
Prideaux B(4), Desai PV(5), Masquelin T(5), Via LE(3)(6), Dartois V(4), Boshoff
HI(3), Barry CE 3rd(3)(6), Ehrt S(1), Schnappinger D(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New 
York, NY, 10065, USA.
(2)School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Queensland, Brisbane, 4072,
Australia.
(3)Tuberculosis Research Section, Laboratory of Clinical Immunology and
Microbiology, NIAID, NIH, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(4)Center for Discovery and Innovation, Hackensack Meridian Health, Nutley, NJ,
07110, USA.
(5)Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, 46285,
USA.
(6)Institute of Infectious Disease and Molecular Medicine, Department of
Pathology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa.
(7)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New 
York, NY, 10065, USA. dis2003@med.cornell.edu.

The viability of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) depends on energy generated by 
its respiratory chain. Cytochrome bc1-aa3 oxidase and type-2 NADH dehydrogenase
(NDH-2) are respiratory chain components predicted to be essential, and
are currently targeted for drug development. Here we demonstrate that an Mtb
cytochrome bc1-aa3 oxidase deletion mutant is viable and only partially
attenuated in mice. Moreover, treatment of Mtb-infected marmosets with a
cytochrome bc1-aa3 oxidase inhibitor controls disease progression and reduces
lesion-associated inflammation, but most lesions become cavitary. Deletion of
both NDH-2 encoding genes (Δndh-2 mutant) reveals that the essentiality of NDH-2 
as shown in standard growth media is due to the presence of fatty acids. The
Δndh-2 mutant is only mildly attenuated in mice and not differently susceptible
to clofazimine, a drug in clinical use proposed to engage NDH-2. These results
demonstrate the intrinsic plasticity of Mtb's respiratory chain, and highlight
the challenges associated with targeting the pathogen's respiratory enzymes for
tuberculosis drug development.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-12956-2 
PMCID: PMC6823465
PMID: 31672993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

