

4036. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 1994 Feb;42(2):306-13.

Renin inhibitors. III. Synthesis and structure-activity relationships of
transition-state inhibitors containing dihydroxyethylene isostere at the P1-P1
site.

Atsuumi S(1), Funabashi H, Nakano M, Koike Y, Tanaka S, Harada J, Matsuyama K,
Ikenaga T, Morishima H.

Author information: 
(1)Structural Biology & Chemistry, Tsukuba Research Institute, Banyu
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

Erratum in
    Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo) 1994 Jun;42(6):1379.

The design, synthesis and structure-activity relationships of transition-state
inhibitors containing the dihydroxyethylene isostere at the scissile site are
described. The compounds with
(2S,3R,4S)-4-amino-5-cyclohexyl-1-morpholino-2,3-pentanediol at the P1-P1 site
are potent renin inhibitors.
(2S,3R,4S)-4-[N-[(2S)-3-Ethylsulfonyl-2-(1-naphthylmethyl)propiony l]-L-
norleucyl]amino-5-cyclohexyl-1-morpholino-2,3-pentanediol (2) (BW-175), which is 
the most potent inhibitor (IC50: 3.3 nM against human renin) in this series,
poorly inhibits cathepsin D (IC50: 26000 nM) and pepsin (IC50: > 100000 nM), and 
thus it is specific for renin. Compound 2 contains only one amino acid and showed
an oral bioavailability of 2.8% at 10 mg/kg and 9.7% at 30 mg/kg in rats. The
interaction between renin and inhibitor 2 is discussed on the basis of molecular 
modeling studies.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.42.306 
PMID: 8149456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4037. Mol Neurobiol. 1994 Feb;8(1):25-39.

Induction of beta (A4)-amyloid in primates by injection of Alzheimer's disease
brain homogenate. Comparison with transmission of spongiform encephalopathy.

Baker HF(1), Ridley RM, Duchen LW, Crow TJ, Bruton CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex, UK.

Amyloid plaques, associated with argyrophilic dystrophic neurites, and cerebral
amyloid angiopathy (CAA), but no neurofibrillary tangles, were found in the
brains of three middle-aged marmoset monkeys that had been injected
intracerebrally (ic) 6-7 yr earlier with brain tissue from a patient with
early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Such changes were not found in the brains of
three age-matched control marmosets. Immunochemically the amyloid plaques and CAA
stained with antibody to beta (A4)-protein. The plaques and CAA displayed
dichroic birefringence when stained with Congo red and viewed under polarized
light. beta (A4)-amyloid plaques and CAA were also found in the brain of one of
two marmosets injected ic 6 yr previously with brain tissue from a patient with
prion disease with concomitant beta (A4)-amyloid plaques and CAA. An occasional
beta (A4)-amyloid plaque was found in the brains of two of four marmosets
injected ic > 4.5 yr previously with brain tissue from three elderly patients,
two of whom had suspected (but untransmitted) CJD. No beta (A4)-amyloid plaques
or CAA were found in six marmosets who were older than the injected animals, in
four marmosets that had not developed spongiform encephalopathy (SE) having been 
injected several years previously with human brain tissue from three younger
patients with suspected or atypical prion disease, or in 10 younger marmosets who
had undergone various neurosurgical procedures. Seventeen marmosets injected in
the same way with brain tissue from patients or animals with SE developed SE
17-49 mo after injection. These results suggest that beta (A4)-amyloidosis is a
transmissible process comparable to the transmissibility of SE.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02778005 
PMID: 8086126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

