

4037. Mol Neurobiol. 1994 Feb;8(1):25-39.

Induction of beta (A4)-amyloid in primates by injection of Alzheimer's disease
brain homogenate. Comparison with transmission of spongiform encephalopathy.

Baker HF(1), Ridley RM, Duchen LW, Crow TJ, Bruton CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex, UK.

Amyloid plaques, associated with argyrophilic dystrophic neurites, and cerebral
amyloid angiopathy (CAA), but no neurofibrillary tangles, were found in the
brains of three middle-aged marmoset monkeys that had been injected
intracerebrally (ic) 6-7 yr earlier with brain tissue from a patient with
early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Such changes were not found in the brains of
three age-matched control marmosets. Immunochemically the amyloid plaques and CAA
stained with antibody to beta (A4)-protein. The plaques and CAA displayed
dichroic birefringence when stained with Congo red and viewed under polarized
light. beta (A4)-amyloid plaques and CAA were also found in the brain of one of
two marmosets injected ic 6 yr previously with brain tissue from a patient with
prion disease with concomitant beta (A4)-amyloid plaques and CAA. An occasional
beta (A4)-amyloid plaque was found in the brains of two of four marmosets
injected ic > 4.5 yr previously with brain tissue from three elderly patients,
two of whom had suspected (but untransmitted) CJD. No beta (A4)-amyloid plaques
or CAA were found in six marmosets who were older than the injected animals, in
four marmosets that had not developed spongiform encephalopathy (SE) having been 
injected several years previously with human brain tissue from three younger
patients with suspected or atypical prion disease, or in 10 younger marmosets who
had undergone various neurosurgical procedures. Seventeen marmosets injected in
the same way with brain tissue from patients or animals with SE developed SE
17-49 mo after injection. These results suggest that beta (A4)-amyloidosis is a
transmissible process comparable to the transmissibility of SE.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02778005 
PMID: 8086126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4038. J Virol Methods. 1994 Feb;46(2):167-78.

A modified procedure for the propagation of wild type Epstein-Barr virus in
cultures of marmoset blood cells.

Chang RS(1), Lung ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, School of Medicine, University of
California, Davis 95616.

Productive infection of marmoset blood mononuclear cells by the Epstein-Barr
virus was generally achieved by the co-cultivation method. By introducing 2
modifications, the success rate of infection was increased from 6% to 79%. The
modifications consisted of the selection of human lymphocyte donors to serve as
carriers of Epstein-Barr virus in cocultures, and the addition of cyclosporin A
to culture media. So far, 10 of 10 wild type oropharyngeal EBV have been
propagated successfully in cultures of marmoset blood mononuclear cells by the
modified procedure. Fragment length polymorphism study failed to reveal any
difference between viral genomes in human lymphocytes and that in marmoset blood 
mononuclear cells. Antigenic analysis of 8 wild strains showed that all were
related to the B95-8 strain of Epstein-Barr virus by the neutralization test.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-0934(94)90101-5 
PMID: 7910612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

