

4041. Int J Cancer. 1994 Jan 15;56(2):187-92.

Identification of integrated Epstein-Barr virus in nasopharyngeal carcinoma using
pulse field gel electrophoresis.

Kripalani-Joshi S(1), Law HY.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, National University of Singapore.

Integrated Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) was found in 4 of 17 pathologically
diagnosed, EBV-positive nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) biopsy samples using pulse
field gel electrophoresis (PFGE). The analyses were carried out after digestion
of biopsy DNA with rare restriction enzymes such as PacI, which does not cleave
EBV due to the absence of the recognition sequence, and ClaI. Employing this
technique, EBV integration in IB4, through EcoI, and Namalwa through the terminal
repeats, was confirmed. We also established that integration of EBV in AW Ramos
was through the terminal repeats. The Raji cell line was also found to harbour
integrated virus in addition to episomal DNA. However, the site of integration
could not be confirmed, since as the Raji DNA appeared to be heavily methylated
and could not be cleaved with CPG rare cutters. As in the Raji cell line, the DNA
of EBV in nasopharyngeal-carcinoma (NPC) biopsies also appeared to be methylated.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910560207 
PMID: 8314299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4042. Am J Primatol. 1994;34(1):11-17. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350340105.

New world primates for research in human reproductive health.

Hearn JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison.

The New World primates are relatively new to studies in reproductive health. The 
essential factors in their reproductive physiology and endocrinology are now
established for the three species considered here: Saimiri sciureus, Cebus
apella, and Callithrix jacchus. Our studies to date in C. jacchus have
concentrated on developmental biology (gametogenesis, fertilization,
implantation, neonatal growth) and on strategic studies of new pharmacological
agents for the regulation of fertility (vaccines, steroids, lactation). There are
also species-specific mechanisms evident, such as reproductive suppression in
female marmosets, that give insights to the evolution of reproductive mechanisms 
in the primates. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350340105 
PMID: 31936988 

