

4042. Am J Primatol. 1994;34(1):11-17. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350340105.

New world primates for research in human reproductive health.

Hearn JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison.

The New World primates are relatively new to studies in reproductive health. The 
essential factors in their reproductive physiology and endocrinology are now
established for the three species considered here: Saimiri sciureus, Cebus
apella, and Callithrix jacchus. Our studies to date in C. jacchus have
concentrated on developmental biology (gametogenesis, fertilization,
implantation, neonatal growth) and on strategic studies of new pharmacological
agents for the regulation of fertility (vaccines, steroids, lactation). There are
also species-specific mechanisms evident, such as reproductive suppression in
female marmosets, that give insights to the evolution of reproductive mechanisms 
in the primates. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350340105 
PMID: 31936988 


4043. Am J Primatol. 1994;34(2):199-219. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350340210.

Phylogenetic approach to the study of tamarin and marmoset social systems.

Garber PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois, Urbana.

Tamarins and marmosets (subfamily: Callitrichinae) are members of an ecologically
and behaviorally diverse radiation of small-bodied New World monkeys
characterized by the production of twin offspring, intense female reproductive
competition, reproductive suppression, cooperative infant care and evidence of
what has been described as a highly flexible system of mating. In this review, I 
offer a phylogenetic approach to the study of callitrichine reproduction and
mating systems. Beginning with the assumption that Callimico most closely
resembles the ancestral tamarin and marmoset condition, I identify a set of
primitive callitrichine behavioral and reproductive character states and
reconstruct the sequence of derived behavioral and reproductive changes that
define the basic social systems of Saguinus, Leontopithecus, Callithrix, and
Cebuella. It is proposed that ancestral callitrichines lived in small multimale
multifemale groups characterized by 1 or more reproductively active females, a
single offspring at birth, rapid postnatal growth, delayed nonmaternal
caregiving, and a polygynous mating pattern. The evolution of twinning in the
common ancestor of all extant tamarins and marmosets increased the overall costs 
of infant care, resulting in enhanced female reproductive competition and a
greater role for group members in providing for the young. Specialized mechanisms
of female reproductive competition appear to have evolved twice in callitrichine 
evolution. In the lineage leading to Leontopithecus, high levels of female
intrasexual aggression and ovulatory synchrony play a primary role in the social 
control of fertility. In Saguinus, Callithrix, and Cebuella, female reproductive 
suppression has a stronger physiological basis, resulting in hormonally mediated 
infertility in subordinate adult females. In addition to having important
implications for understanding differences in callitrichine breeding systems,
these data suggest that Leontopithecus separated from the callitrichin line prior
to the radiation of other tamarin and marmoset taxa. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350340210 
PMID: 31936973 

