

4045. Am J Primatol. 1994;33(4):309-315. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350330405.

Karyotype of Callithrix mauesi (Callitrichidae, Primates) and its relations with 
those of C. emiliae and C. jacchus.

Nagamachi CY(1)(2), Pieczarka JC(1)(2), Schwarz M(3), Paiva CMC(1), Barros
RMS(2), Mattevi MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre.
(2)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Pará. Belém.
(3)Zoobotânica Marco Schwarz, Curitiba, Brasil.

A study was conducted on the most recently described marmoset species, Callithrix
mauesi, and the results obtained were compared to those previously reported for
the karyotypes of C. jacchus and C. emiliae. No mechanism of chromosome
rearrangement differentiates the karyotypes of C. mauesi (2n = 44) and C. emiliae
(2n = 44), which diverge from C. jacchus (2n = 46) by a Robertsonian
translocation and a paracentric inversion. C. mauesi, like C. emiliae, presents
telomeric constitutive heterochromatin in various chromosomes, forming large
heterochromatic blocks in some. This does not occur in C. jacchus, which
basically presents centromeric constitutive heterochromatin. The karyotype of C. 
mauesi differs from that of C. emiliae only by the amount and distribution of
this telomeric constitutive heterochromatin. One of the chromosomes presenting a 
heterochromatic block in C. mauesi is chromosome X, a fact not previously
reported in the Order Primates. The present chromosome data show that C. mauesi
is closer to C. emiliae than to C. jacchus, in agreement with its inclusion in
the C. argentata group. In the present paper, we describe for the first time, at 
the chromosome level, chimerism between fraternal twins of the same sex (XY/XY), 
with the heterochromatic block of pair 2 being the marker. © 1994 Wiley-Liss,
Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350330405 
PMID: 31936938 


4046. Am J Primatol. 1994;33(1):15-29. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350330103.

Responses to natural and synthetic phee calls by common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD(1), Fitch W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland.

Captive adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) produce whistlelike "phee"
calls in two contexts: in the home cage, where phee calls may function as part of
territorial marking behavior, and when separated from social companions, where
phee calls may function to reunite conspecifics. Natural and synthesized calls
representing the acoustic structure of male and female calls in each context were
presented to adult marmosets in a playback paradigm. Marmosets demonstrated
discriminative abilities according to the context of the call and the caller's
sex. Vocal and behavioral responses indicated increased vigilance and territorial
behavior, following playbacks of naturally produced calls as well as synthetic
calls. All animals scanned more frequently following produced calls as well as
synthetic calls. All animals scanned more frequently following natural home cage 
as well as isolation calls, but only increased contact behavior (trills) in
response to home cage calls. The responses were dimorphic according to the sex of
the caller, where adult males scanned more following male calls, and adult
females were more aggressive following male and female calls. The differential
behavioral responses to playbacks of marmoset phee calls suggest a biological
relevance to subtle differences found in the acoustic parameters of the phee
call. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc. This article is a US Government work and, as such, 
in the public domain in the United States of America.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350330103 
PMID: 31936925 

