

4046. Am J Primatol. 1994;33(1):15-29. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350330103.

Responses to natural and synthetic phee calls by common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD(1), Fitch W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland.

Captive adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) produce whistlelike "phee"
calls in two contexts: in the home cage, where phee calls may function as part of
territorial marking behavior, and when separated from social companions, where
phee calls may function to reunite conspecifics. Natural and synthesized calls
representing the acoustic structure of male and female calls in each context were
presented to adult marmosets in a playback paradigm. Marmosets demonstrated
discriminative abilities according to the context of the call and the caller's
sex. Vocal and behavioral responses indicated increased vigilance and territorial
behavior, following playbacks of naturally produced calls as well as synthetic
calls. All animals scanned more frequently following produced calls as well as
synthetic calls. All animals scanned more frequently following natural home cage 
as well as isolation calls, but only increased contact behavior (trills) in
response to home cage calls. The responses were dimorphic according to the sex of
the caller, where adult males scanned more following male calls, and adult
females were more aggressive following male and female calls. The differential
behavioral responses to playbacks of marmoset phee calls suggest a biological
relevance to subtle differences found in the acoustic parameters of the phee
call. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc. This article is a US Government work and, as such, 
in the public domain in the United States of America.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350330103 
PMID: 31936925 


4047. Am J Primatol. 1994;32(3):215-222. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350320308.

Absence of thyroid hormone resistance in vitamin D-;resistant new world primates.

Arbelle JE(1), Gacad MA(1), Spencer CA(2), Adams JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Mineral Metabolism Laboratory, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California.
(2)Clinical Research Center, Department of Medicine, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California.

New World primates express a form of sterol/steroid resistance resulting from the
presence of a 58-60 kDa intracellular protein (IDBP) which competes with nuclear 
receptor proteins for binding of vitamin D metabolites and sex steroids. As the
thyroid hormone receptor is a recognized member of the steroid/retinoid/vitamin D
receptor gene superfamily, we sought to confirm previous data describing the
existence of thyronine resistance in New World primate species and to determine
whether IDBP was capable of binding ligands which confer transcriptional
regulatory potential on thyroid hormone-retinoid heterodimeric complexes.
Circulating thyroid hormone levels were compared between vitamin D-resistant New 
World primates and nonresistant Old World primates. Total triiodothyronine (T3), 
free T3 index, and free thyroxine were not different between New World and Old
World primates. Thyroxine was significantly lower (P < 0.03) in New World than in
Old World primates. T3 (1 pM-1μM), 9-cis retinoic acid (100 nM) and all-trans
retinoic acid (100 nM) were incapable of displacing 2 nM [3H]25-hydroxyvitamin D3
from IDBP extracted from B95-8 cells, a B-lymphoblastoid cell line derived from
the vitamin D-resistant New World primate Callithrix jacchus. We conclude that
the sterol/steroid-resistant state characteristic of many genera of New World
primates does not extend to thyroid hormones and that the IDBP responsible for
vitamin D resistance does not bind T3, 9-cis retinoic acid, and all-trans
retinoic acid. © 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350320308 
PMID: 31936922 

