

4055. Br J Pharmacol. 1994 Jan;111(1):137-44.

Cardiovascular effects of GR117289, a novel angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist.

Hilditch A(1), Hunt AA, Gardner CJ, Twissell DJ, Polley J, Travers A, Drew GM,
Middlemiss D, Ross BC, Robertson MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular & Respiratory Pharmacology, Glaxo Group Research 
Ltd., Ware, Hertfordshire.

1. The effect of GR117289, an angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist, on diastolic
blood pressure (DBP) was determined in angiotensin-dependent and
angiotensin-independent models of hypertension in rats. In addition, the
antagonist profile of GR117289 at angiotensin AT1 receptors was determined in
conscious renal hypertensive rats and conscious normotensive rats, dogs and
marmosets. 2. Intra-arterial and oral administration of GR117289 (0.3-3 mg kg-1, 
i.a.; 1-10 mg kg-1, p.o.) to 6-day left renal artery ligated hypertensive (RALH) 
rats (DBP > 140 mmHg) produced significant, dose-related reductions in DBP with
little apparent effect on heart rate (< 15%). The antihypertensive effect of
GR117289 developed progressively over several hours and with some doses persisted
for 24-48 h after administration. 3. Administration of GR117289 (1 mg kg-1, i.a.)
on 5 consecutive days to RALH rats reduced DBP on each day. The antihypertensive 
effect of GR117289 was not cumulative as DBP had almost returned to base-line
values, 24 h after administration of each dose. 4. A dose of GR117289 (3 mg kg-1,
i.a.), which produced a substantial reduction in DBP (about 70 mmHg) in RALH
rats, was administered to rats in which blood pressure was elevated either by
unilateral renal artery clipping, sustained infusion of angiotensin II (AII),
DOCA-salt administration or genetic inbreeding. GR117289 reduced DBP in rats in
which the renin-angiotensin system was activated by renal artery clipping or AII 
infusion but had little effect in normotensive rats, DOCA-salt rats and SHR. 5.
Systemic administration of All to RALH rats and to normotensive rats, dogs and
marmosets elicited reproducible pressor responses in all species. Systemic or
oral administration of GR1 17289 (3 mg kg-1)inhibited the pressor responses
produced by All, resulting in parallel, rightward displacements of All
dose-response curves.6. Maximal displacements of All dose-response curves
occurred 1 h and 1-7 h after systemic and oral administration, respectively. GR1 
17289 produced a 32-246 fold displacement after systemic administration and a
4-12 fold displacement after oral administration. The effect in dogs was short
lasting after systemic administration but the effect of GRI17289 lasted for up to
24 h in rats and marmosets and for up to 24 h after oral administration in all
species. The antagonist activity appeared specific for angiotensin receptors as
GRi17289 did not inhibit pressor responses to phenylephrine or vasopressin.7.
These experiments demonstrate that GRI 17289 reduces blood pressure in conscious 
hypertensive rats after both systemic and oral administration, and is an
effective antagonist at angiotensin AT1 receptors in conscious rats, dogs and
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1994.tb14035.x 
PMCID: PMC1910000
PMID: 8012689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4056. Teratog Carcinog Mutagen. 1994;14(3):115-22.

Embryotoxic effects of thalidomide derivatives in the non-human primate
callithrix jacchus. IV. Teratogenicity of micrograms/kg doses of the EM12
enantiomers.

Heger W(1), Schmahl HJ, Klug S, Felies A, Nau H, Merker HJ, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Universitätsklinikum Rudolf 
Virchow, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.

The dose-response of the teratogenic potency of the thalidomide (Thd) derivative 
EM12 was evaluated in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The smallest
daily dose found to be effective was 30 micrograms EM12/kg body wt. This is the
lowest dose of a Thd derivative ever reported to induce severe skeletal
abnormalities. Ten micrograms EM12/kg body wt may be considered the
no-observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL) under the experimental conditions
chosen. The teratogenic potencies of the two EM12 enantiomers were tested at 100 
micrograms/kg body wt, the dose which just induces an almost 100% effect in the
case of the racemate. The S(-)-EM12 was found to induce typical severe limb
abnormalities such as amelia, phocomelia, and radius aplasia, and none of the
exposed fetuses were devoid of skeletal defects. In contrast, only few and minor 
skeletal defects were observed after application of the R(+) enantiomer. Although
a pronounced teratogenic potency of the R(+)-EM12 can now largely be excluded,
these low-dose studies are not sufficient to completely rule out any teratogenic 
potential of this enantiomer, since racemisation to small amounts of the S(-)
form may occur in vivo. Further studies with Thd derivatives which are unable to 
racemise are necessary to prove the assumed complete ineffectiveness of the R(+) 
enantiomers.

DOI: 10.1002/tcm.1770140303 
PMID: 7940403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

