

4057. Arch Toxicol. 1994;68(10):619-31.

Effects of recombinant human interleukin 6 (rhIL-6) in marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). 1. General toxicity and hematological changes.

Klug S(1), Neubert R, Stahlmann R, Thiel R, Ryffel B, Car BD, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.

The physiological and toxicological properties of recombinant human interleukin 6
(rhIL-6) were assessed in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Two experimental
series were performed with daily subcutaneous administration: (a) 5 or 1000
micrograms rhIL-6/kg per day for three weeks and (b) 25, 100 or 500 micrograms
rhIL-6/kg per day for 3 months. RhIL-6 was well tolerated and did not induce
fever or any other non-specific signs of toxicity. The main findings were: (1) A 
two- to threefold increase in platelet counts at 2-4 weeks, which decreased
following further continuous rhIL-6 administration; (2) increase in total white
blood cells between 1 and 4 weeks of administration, including an absolute
increase in granulocytes (including band forms) and basophils. A change in the
number of monocytes was not detected; (3) an increase in total red blood cells,
which peaked at 4 weeks, sustained elevation of red cell distribution width and a
slight decrease in hemoglobin between week 1 and 4, concurrent with a distinct
decrease in mean corpuscular hemoglobin at 4 weeks. This effect persisted for 9
weeks in the 100 micrograms/kg and 500 micrograms/kg groups; (4) decrease in
plasma AST activity and increase in plasma protein concentration after 2 weeks of
treatment; (5) no clinical or biochemical signs of renal glomerular dysfunction; 
(6) RhIL-6 after s.c. administration was detectable in the plasma, peak levels
(mean values +/- SD) of 9.4 +/- 6.3 and 72.4 +/- 7.7 ng/ml were measured after a 
single dose of 100 or 1000 micrograms/kg; (7) antibodies against rhIL-6 developed
within 2 weeks, increased during administration and neutralized the biological
effect of rhIL-6 progressively from 4 to 9 weeks. In conclusion, aside from a
mild anemia, rhIL-6 was well tolerated in marmosets and had a profound and
sustained effect on thrombopoiesis. Due to the formation of neutralizing
antibodies, the chronic biological effect of rhIL-6 is lost in marmosets and
studies beyond 4 weeks are rendered less meaningful. The analyses of antibody
formation, induction of acute phase proteins, histological changes and
alterations on lymphocyte receptors will be reported in two following
publications.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03208341 
PMID: 7857201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4058. Exp Clin Immunogenet. 1994;11(2-3):119-27.

Evaluation of possible effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and other
congeners on lymphocyte receptors in Callithrix jacchus and man.

Neubert R(1), Golor G, Maskow L, Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center Rudolf Virchow, Free University Berlin, Germany.

Using fluorescence-labeled monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry (FACScan
analysis) we measured surface receptors on peripheral lymphocytes in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) treated with TCDD in the lower nanogram per kilogram range. 
Additionally, some polybrominated congeners were studied as well as a
2,3,7,8-substituted dioxin containing chlorine and bromine in the same molecule. 
Callithrix was found to be very sensitive to the action of TCDD and the other
tetrahalogenated congeners; single doses of 10-30 ng/kg body weight reproducibly 
induced a decrease in the percentage and absolute number of 'memory' helper T
cells [CD4+CD29(bright)] and of B cells (CD20+). Subsequently, according to the
hypothesis based on the marmoset data, extensive analyses on surface receptors of
white blood cells were performed in workers with moderately increased body
burdens of TCDD, and for further hypothesis generation > 60 triple-labeling
assays were performed with each of the blood samples. No decrease in typical
surface receptors (CD4+CD45R0+CD45RA-CD29(bright) or CD20+) was found in the
human adult volunteers studied, but a trend toward an increase was noted. It
cannot be decided whether this may be a substance-related effect, or results from
a confounder (possibly age differences between the groups).

DOI: 10.1159/000424202 
PMID: 7826660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

