

4058. Exp Clin Immunogenet. 1994;11(2-3):119-27.

Evaluation of possible effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and other
congeners on lymphocyte receptors in Callithrix jacchus and man.

Neubert R(1), Golor G, Maskow L, Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center Rudolf Virchow, Free University Berlin, Germany.

Using fluorescence-labeled monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry (FACScan
analysis) we measured surface receptors on peripheral lymphocytes in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) treated with TCDD in the lower nanogram per kilogram range. 
Additionally, some polybrominated congeners were studied as well as a
2,3,7,8-substituted dioxin containing chlorine and bromine in the same molecule. 
Callithrix was found to be very sensitive to the action of TCDD and the other
tetrahalogenated congeners; single doses of 10-30 ng/kg body weight reproducibly 
induced a decrease in the percentage and absolute number of 'memory' helper T
cells [CD4+CD29(bright)] and of B cells (CD20+). Subsequently, according to the
hypothesis based on the marmoset data, extensive analyses on surface receptors of
white blood cells were performed in workers with moderately increased body
burdens of TCDD, and for further hypothesis generation > 60 triple-labeling
assays were performed with each of the blood samples. No decrease in typical
surface receptors (CD4+CD45R0+CD45RA-CD29(bright) or CD20+) was found in the
human adult volunteers studied, but a trend toward an increase was noted. It
cannot be decided whether this may be a substance-related effect, or results from
a confounder (possibly age differences between the groups).

DOI: 10.1159/000424202 
PMID: 7826660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4059. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1994 Jan-Mar;89(1):127-8.

Long-term patency of blood parasitism by Trypanosoma minasense and Microfilariae 
in Callithrix penicillata marmosets (Primates, Callitrichidae), caught at the
wild and maintained in captivity.

de Resende DM(1), Pereira LH, LÃ´bo A.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Parasitologia, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, Brasil.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761994000100025 
PMID: 7823813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

