

4062. Ann Neurol. 1994;36 Suppl:S157-62.

Prevention strategies for multiple sclerosis.

Hauser SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California-San Francisco 94143-0114.

The design of effective prevention strategies for multiple sclerosis (MS) is
hampered by ignorance of the basic pathophysiology of the disease. An
understanding of specific immune mechanisms, the nature of genetic
susceptibility, and environmental triggers will permit rational decision making
from among the many proposed therapeutic directions available. It is reasonable
to hypothesize that inhibition of central nervous system inflammation will be of 
benefit in MS, regardless of the trigger (autoantigen, exogenous antigen, or
nonspecific trigger). Emerging concepts are reviewed to provide guideposts for
the design of rational therapy for MS.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410360738 
PMID: 7517124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4063. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 1994 Jan;10(1):13-8.

An anti-gp41 human monoclonal antibody that enhances HIV-1 infection in the
absence of complement.

Eaton AM(1), Ugen KE, Weiner DB, Wildes T, Levy JA.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Institute, University of California, School of Medicine, San
Francisco 94143.

B lymphocytes from tonsillar tissue of an asymptomatic HIV-1-seropositive subject
were transformed with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and tested for the production of
HIV-1-specific antibodies by ELISA, using purified HIV-1SF2.2F11, a monoclonal
antibody derived from a transformed line, is of the IgG1 subclass and recognizes 
an epitope in the conserved region of the envelope transmembrane glycoprotein
gp41, which is expressed on the surface of HIV-infected T cells. The antibody
does not mediate the lysis of infected T cells in antibody-dependent cellular
cytotoxicity (ADCC) assays and does not neutralize the infectivity of HIV-1SF2 or
the homologous isolate HIV-1TT2.2F11 appears to be the first anti-gp41 human
monoclonal antibody that enhances the infectivity of an HIV-1 strain (i.e.,
SF128A) in the absence of complement.

DOI: 10.1089/aid.1994.10.13 
PMID: 7514015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

