

4063. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 1994 Jan;10(1):13-8.

An anti-gp41 human monoclonal antibody that enhances HIV-1 infection in the
absence of complement.

Eaton AM(1), Ugen KE, Weiner DB, Wildes T, Levy JA.

Author information: 
(1)Cancer Research Institute, University of California, School of Medicine, San
Francisco 94143.

B lymphocytes from tonsillar tissue of an asymptomatic HIV-1-seropositive subject
were transformed with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and tested for the production of
HIV-1-specific antibodies by ELISA, using purified HIV-1SF2.2F11, a monoclonal
antibody derived from a transformed line, is of the IgG1 subclass and recognizes 
an epitope in the conserved region of the envelope transmembrane glycoprotein
gp41, which is expressed on the surface of HIV-infected T cells. The antibody
does not mediate the lysis of infected T cells in antibody-dependent cellular
cytotoxicity (ADCC) assays and does not neutralize the infectivity of HIV-1SF2 or
the homologous isolate HIV-1TT2.2F11 appears to be the first anti-gp41 human
monoclonal antibody that enhances the infectivity of an HIV-1 strain (i.e.,
SF128A) in the absence of complement.

DOI: 10.1089/aid.1994.10.13 
PMID: 7514015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4064. Behav Processes. 1993 Dec;30(3):201-24. doi: 10.1016/0376-6357(93)90133-C.

The regulation of maternal behaviour in marmosets and tamarins.

Pryce CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich-Irchel, Zürich, Switzerland.

This article reviews a long-term investigation into the roles of (1) experience
obtained with infants during development and postnatally, and (2) levels of
reproductive-steroid hormones during late pregnancy, in the regulation of
maternal caregiving motivation and behaviour in the red-bellied tamarin (Saguinus
labiatus) and the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) (family Callitrichidae,
Order Primates). Both observational studies, e.g. post hoc analysis of the
relationship between developmental caregiving experience and infant-rearing
success, and manipulative studies, e.g. direct analysis of the effects of
sex-steroid administration on maternal motivation, were performed. In red-bellied
tamarins, a breeding female's infant-rearing success was related to its
caregiving experience obtained during development and postpartum/postnatally. In 
multiparous females lacking developmental caregiving experience, postpartum
maternal caregiving behaviour and infant-rearing success were related to
prepartum urinary oestradiol levels. In nulliparous common marmosets, caregiving 
of infant-siblings increased as a consequence of physical interaction with
parent-infant dyads, late pregnancy, and exposure to late pregnancy-like levels
of progesterone and oestradiol. The evidence for a dual mechanism of endocrine
and experiential regulation of caregiving in these monkeys is discussed in terms 
its evolution and function.

Copyright © 1993. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/0376-6357(93)90133-C 
PMID: 24896945 

