

4064. Behav Processes. 1993 Dec;30(3):201-24. doi: 10.1016/0376-6357(93)90133-C.

The regulation of maternal behaviour in marmosets and tamarins.

Pryce CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich-Irchel, Zürich, Switzerland.

This article reviews a long-term investigation into the roles of (1) experience
obtained with infants during development and postnatally, and (2) levels of
reproductive-steroid hormones during late pregnancy, in the regulation of
maternal caregiving motivation and behaviour in the red-bellied tamarin (Saguinus
labiatus) and the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) (family Callitrichidae,
Order Primates). Both observational studies, e.g. post hoc analysis of the
relationship between developmental caregiving experience and infant-rearing
success, and manipulative studies, e.g. direct analysis of the effects of
sex-steroid administration on maternal motivation, were performed. In red-bellied
tamarins, a breeding female's infant-rearing success was related to its
caregiving experience obtained during development and postpartum/postnatally. In 
multiparous females lacking developmental caregiving experience, postpartum
maternal caregiving behaviour and infant-rearing success were related to
prepartum urinary oestradiol levels. In nulliparous common marmosets, caregiving 
of infant-siblings increased as a consequence of physical interaction with
parent-infant dyads, late pregnancy, and exposure to late pregnancy-like levels
of progesterone and oestradiol. The evidence for a dual mechanism of endocrine
and experiential regulation of caregiving in these monkeys is discussed in terms 
its evolution and function.

Copyright © 1993. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/0376-6357(93)90133-C 
PMID: 24896945 


4065. Acta Histochem. 1993 Dec;95(2):203-19.

Light microscopic visualization of monoamine oxidase using a cerium method.

Nakos G(1), Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

H2O2-generating monoamine oxidase can be visualized in the light microscope with 
tetrazolium, metal salt (ferricyanide) and coupled peroxidatic oxidation methods.
Due to methodological draw-backs these procedures do no allow satisfactory
results. In search for an alternative method a light microscopic cerium procedure
was designed in which the primary reaction product, cerium perhydroxide, serves
for the generation of amplified and intensified diaminobenzidine brown. With this
cerium-diaminobenzidine-H2O2-Co method monoamine oxidase was visualized more
easily and reliably and with higher sensitivity and more precise localization
than with the other techniques. At present this method is considered to be the
procedure of choice and was used to re-investigate and investigate the
distribution of monoamine oxidase in rats, mice, gerbils, guinea-pigs, marmosets,
monkeys and man. In these species many cells and tissues showed monoamine oxidase
activity where the enzyme has not yet been found before and the structures with
already known monoamine oxidase activity showed an improved localization.

DOI: 10.1016/S0065-1281(11)80260-6 
PMID: 8135091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

