

4065. Acta Histochem. 1993 Dec;95(2):203-19.

Light microscopic visualization of monoamine oxidase using a cerium method.

Nakos G(1), Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

H2O2-generating monoamine oxidase can be visualized in the light microscope with 
tetrazolium, metal salt (ferricyanide) and coupled peroxidatic oxidation methods.
Due to methodological draw-backs these procedures do no allow satisfactory
results. In search for an alternative method a light microscopic cerium procedure
was designed in which the primary reaction product, cerium perhydroxide, serves
for the generation of amplified and intensified diaminobenzidine brown. With this
cerium-diaminobenzidine-H2O2-Co method monoamine oxidase was visualized more
easily and reliably and with higher sensitivity and more precise localization
than with the other techniques. At present this method is considered to be the
procedure of choice and was used to re-investigate and investigate the
distribution of monoamine oxidase in rats, mice, gerbils, guinea-pigs, marmosets,
monkeys and man. In these species many cells and tissues showed monoamine oxidase
activity where the enzyme has not yet been found before and the structures with
already known monoamine oxidase activity showed an improved localization.

DOI: 10.1016/S0065-1281(11)80260-6 
PMID: 8135091  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4066. J Vet Med Sci. 1993 Dec;55(6):951-4.

Comparison of the pathogenicity of rinderpest virus in different strains of
rabbits.

Okita M(1), Ochikubo F, Kamata Y, Kamata H, Yamanouchi K, Kai C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, University of
Tokyo, Japan.

Pathogenicity of the lapinized Nakamura-III (L) strain of rinderpest virus (RPV) 
was examined in four strains of rabbits consisting of two inbred strains (NW-NIBS
and DUY-NIBS) and two outbred strains maintained in closed colony (NW-NIBS and
JW-NIBS) using a marmoset lymphoblastoid cell line, B95a cell-passaged virus and 
tissue homogenates of virus-infected rabbits. The cell culture virus was found to
maintain virulence for rabbits of both closed colony and inbred NW-NIBS strain
similar to the homogenate virus. Among the strains investigated, inbred NW-NIBS
strain showed the highest susceptibility to RPV. Thus experimental model in an
inbred rabbit using cell culture virus became useful.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.55.951 
PMID: 8117822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

