

4067. J Vet Med Sci. 1993 Dec;55(6):1067-70.

Use of B95a cells for isolation of canine distemper virus from clinical cases.

Kai C(1), Ochikubo F, Okita M, Iinuma T, Mikami T, Kobune F, Yamanouchi K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Faculty of Agriculture, University of
Tokyo, Japan.

Canine distemper virus (CDV) was readily isolated at high rate with marked
cytopathic effect (CPE) in B95a cells, a marmoset lymphoid cell line, from the
peripheral blood leukocytes, cerebrospinal fluid cells and brain of dogs.
Difference in type of CPE, i.e. syncytium type and round-cell one, among the
virus isolates indicate the presence of heterogeneity of virus populations in
prevalent CDV. Thus, this cell system is expected to be useful for ecological
studies on CDV in the field.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.55.1067 
PMID: 8117810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4068. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1993 Dec;348(6):586-92.

The competitive NMDA antagonist CPP protects substantia nigra neurons from
MPTP-induced degeneration in primates.

Lange KW(1), Löschmann PA, Sofic E, Burg M, Horowski R, Kalveram KT, Wachtel H,
Riederer P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurochemistry, University of Würzburg, Germany.

Degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons is the primary
histopathological feature of Parkinson's disease. The neurotoxin MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) induces a neurological syndrome in
man and non-human primates very similar to idiopathic Parkinson's disease by
selectively destroying dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. This gives rise to the
hypothesis that Parkinson's disease may be caused by endogenous or environmental 
toxins. Endogenous excitatory amino acids (EAAs) such as L-glutamate could be
involved in neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's disease. We report 
in this study that the competitive NMDA antagonist CPP
(3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid) protects nigral
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) positive neurons from degeneration induced by systemic 
treatment with MPTP in common marmosets. This indicates that EAAs are involved in
the pathophysiological cascade of MPTP-induced neuronal cell death and that EAA
antagonists may offer a neuroprotective therapy for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00167234 
PMID: 7907775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

