

407. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2019 Nov 12;116(46):23326-23331. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1909799116. Epub 2019 Oct 28.

Retinotopic specializations of cortical and thalamic inputs to area MT.

Mundinano IC(1), Kwan WC(1), Bourne JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia.
(2)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia james.bourne@monash.edu.

Retinotopic specializations in the ventral visual stream, especially foveal
adaptations, provide primates with high-acuity vision in the central visual
field. However, visual field specializations have not been studied in the dorsal 
visual stream, dedicated to processing visual motion and visually guided
behaviors. To investigate this, we injected retrograde neuronal tracers occupying
the whole visuotopic representation of the middle temporal (MT) visual area in
marmoset monkeys and studied the distribution and morphology of the afferent
primary visual cortex (V1) projections. Contrary to previous reports, we found a 
heterogeneous population of V1-MT projecting neurons distributed in layers 3C and
6. In layer 3C, spiny stellate neurons were distributed mainly in foveal
representations, while pyramidal morphologies were characteristic of peripheral
eccentricities. This primate adaptation of the V1 to MT pathway is arranged in a 
way that we had not previously understood, with abundant stellate projection
neurons in the high-resolution foveal portions, suggesting rapid relay of motion 
information to visual area MT. We also describe that the medial portion of the
inferior pulvinar (PIm), which is the main thalamic input to area MT, shows a
retinotopic organization, likely reflecting the importance of this pathway during
development and the establishment of area MT topography.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1909799116 
PMCID: PMC6859338
PMID: 31659044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


408. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 25;9(1):15292. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-51783-9.

Reflexive gaze following in common marmoset monkeys.

Spadacenta S(1), Dicke PW(2), Thier P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
silvia.spadacenta@uni-tuebingen.de.
(2)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
thier@uni-tuebingen.de.

The ability to extract the direction of the other's gaze allows us to shift our
attention to an object of interest to the other and to establish joint attention.
By mapping one's own intentions on the object of joint attention, humans develop 
a Theory of (the other's) Mind (TOM), a functional sequence possibly disrupted in
autism. Gaze following of both humans and old world monkeys is orchestrated by
very similar cortical architectures, strongly suggesting homology. Also new world
monkeys, a primate suborder that split from the old world monkey line about 35
million years ago, have complex social structures and one member of this group,
the common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are known to follow human head-gaze.
However, the question is if they use gaze following to establish joint attention 
with conspecifics. Here we show that this is indeed the case. In a free choice
task, head-restrained marmosets prefer objects gazed at by a conspecific and,
moreover, they exhibit considerably shorter choice reaction times for the same
objects. These findings support the assumption of an evolutionarily old domain
specific faculty shared within the primate order and they underline the potential
value of marmosets in studies of normal and disturbed joint attention.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-51783-9 
PMCID: PMC6814856
PMID: 31653910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

