

4070. Brain Res. 1993 Nov 19;628(1-2):56-64.

Cognitive inflexibility after archicortical and paleocortical prefrontal lesions 
in marmosets.

Ridley RM(1), Durnford LJ, Baker JA, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, UK.

The behaviour and cognitive abilities of marmosets with bilateral ablations of
either the archicortex on the mediodorsal surface or the paleocortex on the
ventrolateral surface of the frontal lobes were assessed in terms of the types of
information being handled, the mode of action (inhibitory versus productive
mechanisms), and the level of functioning of these frontal areas. Although there 
was a tendency for the ventrolateral ablation to produce a greater impairment on 
object than on spatial discrimination in comparison to the mediodorsal ablation, 
the differences between the two groups was not marked in this respect. The effect
of ablations of either of these areas was more marked on tasks which required the
inhibition of prepotent responses than on tasks where novel or arbitrary
responses were appropriate. The major effect of both lesions was the production
of perseverative behaviour which occurred at the level of motor output in the
first few days after surgery but was then observed at the level of choice
behaviour and attentional set in formal cognitive tests. Impairments were also
seen on postoperative retention of tasks learnt prior to surgery. It is suggested
that all these impairments arise from an inability to use or modify stored
information.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(93)90937-i 
PMID: 8313170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4071. Neuroreport. 1993 Nov 18;5(2):113-6.

Connections from the neocortex to the vestibular brain stem nuclei in the common 
marmoset.

Guldin WO(1), Mirring S, Grüsser OJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Freie Universität, Berlin, Germany.

Monosynaptic projections from the cerebral cortex to the vestibular nuclei were
studied in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) by injecting
fluorescent dextrans into the brain stem vestibular nuclei. The injection sites
were determined by single unit vestibular responses identified later
histologically. During the recordings sinewave rotation in pitch, roll or yaw or 
steady tilt was applied. The most notable loci of labelling were found inside the
primary sensory cortex, the cortex deep down along the posterior lateral sulcus, 
the premotor region and the anterior cingulate cortex. From studies in other
primates these cortical areas are known to process vestibular information. Their 
connections with the vestibular nuclei may serve as an internal feedback
modulating the vestibular brain stem activity.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199311180-00004 
PMID: 8110998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

