

4071. Neuroreport. 1993 Nov 18;5(2):113-6.

Connections from the neocortex to the vestibular brain stem nuclei in the common 
marmoset.

Guldin WO(1), Mirring S, Grüsser OJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Freie Universität, Berlin, Germany.

Monosynaptic projections from the cerebral cortex to the vestibular nuclei were
studied in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) by injecting
fluorescent dextrans into the brain stem vestibular nuclei. The injection sites
were determined by single unit vestibular responses identified later
histologically. During the recordings sinewave rotation in pitch, roll or yaw or 
steady tilt was applied. The most notable loci of labelling were found inside the
primary sensory cortex, the cortex deep down along the posterior lateral sulcus, 
the premotor region and the anterior cingulate cortex. From studies in other
primates these cortical areas are known to process vestibular information. Their 
connections with the vestibular nuclei may serve as an internal feedback
modulating the vestibular brain stem activity.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199311180-00004 
PMID: 8110998  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4072. Virology. 1993 Nov;197(1):205-15.

Regulation of Epstein-Barr virus BamHI-H divergent promoter by DNA methylation.

Nonkwelo CB(1), Long WK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Temple University School of
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19140.

The regulatory mechanisms which control latency and reactivation of the
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) are not fully understood. To determine whether DNA
methylation is involved, we examined the BamHI-H divergent promoter, which also
encompasses the origin for lytic replication (oriLyt) of EBV. The divergent
promoter was highly methylated in the stringently latent HH514cl16 cell line and 
largely unmethylated in the semipermissive FF41-1 cell line. Expression vectors
in which the divergent promoter directed transcription of the chloramphenicol
acetyltransferase gene were made. Using in vitro methylation and transient
transfections, we found an inverse correlation between the number of sites
methylated and level of gene expression. Similar patterns of inhibition were
observed when the methylated promoter was activated by BZLF1 or BRLF1 and in
lymphoid or epithelial cells. The role of two CpG dinucleotides in the BRLF1
binding sites of the divergent promoter was determined by site-directed
mutagenesis. The results indicated that site-specific methylation of these CpGs
was not solely responsible for inhibition of expression by methylation. DNA
methylation also reduced DNA replication mediated by oriLyt. These results
suggest that hypermethylation of the divergent promoter and oriLyt may suppress
transcription and lytic replication of EBV.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1993.1581 
PMID: 8212555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

