

4072. Virology. 1993 Nov;197(1):205-15.

Regulation of Epstein-Barr virus BamHI-H divergent promoter by DNA methylation.

Nonkwelo CB(1), Long WK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Temple University School of
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19140.

The regulatory mechanisms which control latency and reactivation of the
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) are not fully understood. To determine whether DNA
methylation is involved, we examined the BamHI-H divergent promoter, which also
encompasses the origin for lytic replication (oriLyt) of EBV. The divergent
promoter was highly methylated in the stringently latent HH514cl16 cell line and 
largely unmethylated in the semipermissive FF41-1 cell line. Expression vectors
in which the divergent promoter directed transcription of the chloramphenicol
acetyltransferase gene were made. Using in vitro methylation and transient
transfections, we found an inverse correlation between the number of sites
methylated and level of gene expression. Similar patterns of inhibition were
observed when the methylated promoter was activated by BZLF1 or BRLF1 and in
lymphoid or epithelial cells. The role of two CpG dinucleotides in the BRLF1
binding sites of the divergent promoter was determined by site-directed
mutagenesis. The results indicated that site-specific methylation of these CpGs
was not solely responsible for inhibition of expression by methylation. DNA
methylation also reduced DNA replication mediated by oriLyt. These results
suggest that hypermethylation of the divergent promoter and oriLyt may suppress
transcription and lytic replication of EBV.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1993.1581 
PMID: 8212555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4073. Biochem Pharmacol. 1993 Oct 19;46(8):1413-9.

Hydrolysis and binding of a toxic stereoisomer of soman in plasma and tissue
homogenates from rat, guinea pig and marmoset, and in human plasma.

de Jong LP(1), van Dijk C, Berhitoe D, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Prins Maurits Laboratory TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

The fallen concentration of one of the two isomers of soman
(1,2,2-trimethylpropyl methylphosphonofluoridate), i.e., C(+)P(-)-soman, was
investigated in plasma and in homogenates of brain, lung, liver, kidney,
diaphragm, skeletal muscle and mucosa of small intestines from rat, guinea pig
and marmoset, and in human plasma (pH 7.5, 37 degrees). The decrease of the
isomer concentration was followed by gas chromatographic determination of the
residual concentration and proceeded in two phases due to a very rapid saturation
of covalent binding sites for the isomer followed by catalysed hydrolysis.
Estimates for the concentrations of covalent binding sites were obtained, which
were relatively high in liver and kidney. Time periods for the hydrolysis of the 
isomer from a concentration of 40 ng/mL to 20 ng/mL were evaluated from the
second reaction phase. It is concluded that the spontaneous and enzyme-catalyzed 
hydrolytic activities found for degradation of C(+)P(-)-soman in organs
participating in central elimination are sufficiently high to account for the
terminal half-life times of the isomer found in our toxicokinetic studies for the
blood concentration after intoxication with 2-6 LD50 C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman. The
hydrolytic activities are lower in the target organs for toxic action of soman,
e.g., diaphragm and brain, especially for guinea pigs and marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(93)90106-7 
PMID: 8240390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

