

4073. Biochem Pharmacol. 1993 Oct 19;46(8):1413-9.

Hydrolysis and binding of a toxic stereoisomer of soman in plasma and tissue
homogenates from rat, guinea pig and marmoset, and in human plasma.

de Jong LP(1), van Dijk C, Berhitoe D, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Prins Maurits Laboratory TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

The fallen concentration of one of the two isomers of soman
(1,2,2-trimethylpropyl methylphosphonofluoridate), i.e., C(+)P(-)-soman, was
investigated in plasma and in homogenates of brain, lung, liver, kidney,
diaphragm, skeletal muscle and mucosa of small intestines from rat, guinea pig
and marmoset, and in human plasma (pH 7.5, 37 degrees). The decrease of the
isomer concentration was followed by gas chromatographic determination of the
residual concentration and proceeded in two phases due to a very rapid saturation
of covalent binding sites for the isomer followed by catalysed hydrolysis.
Estimates for the concentrations of covalent binding sites were obtained, which
were relatively high in liver and kidney. Time periods for the hydrolysis of the 
isomer from a concentration of 40 ng/mL to 20 ng/mL were evaluated from the
second reaction phase. It is concluded that the spontaneous and enzyme-catalyzed 
hydrolytic activities found for degradation of C(+)P(-)-soman in organs
participating in central elimination are sufficiently high to account for the
terminal half-life times of the isomer found in our toxicokinetic studies for the
blood concentration after intoxication with 2-6 LD50 C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman. The
hydrolytic activities are lower in the target organs for toxic action of soman,
e.g., diaphragm and brain, especially for guinea pigs and marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(93)90106-7 
PMID: 8240390  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4074. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1993 Oct;51(10):1088-94; discussion 1094-5.

Histologic study of articular cartilage repair in the marmoset condyle.

Robinson PD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Guy's Hospital, London, England.

This study tests the regenerative capability of condylar cartilage by examining
repair of full-thickness articular surface defects in a primate model. The wounds
were reconstituted within 6 months with tissue identical to the remaining
condylar structure, and the reformed articular surface was maintained intact up
to 1 year postinjury.

DOI: 10.1016/s0278-2391(10)80446-x 
PMID: 8410447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

