

4076. Lab Anim. 1993 Oct;27(4):381-4.

Illustrated guide to surgical technique for vasectomy of the common marmoset.

Morris TH(1), David CL.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Laboratory Animal Science, Essex, UK.

The surgical technique for vasectomy of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) 
is described and illustrated.

DOI: 10.1258/002367793780745534 
PMID: 8277713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4077. Int J Exp Pathol. 1993 Oct;74(5):441-54.

Evidence for the experimental transmission of cerebral beta-amyloidosis to
primates.

Baker HF(1), Ridley RM, Duchen LW, Crow TJ, Bruton CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, UK.

The brains of three marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) injected intracerebrally 6-7
years earlier with brain tissue from a patient with early onset Alzheimer's
disease were found to contain moderate numbers of amyloid plaques with associated
argyrophilic dystrophic neurites and cerebral amyloid angiopathy but no
neurofibrillary tangles. The plaques and vascular amyloid stained positively with
antibodies to beta (A4)-protein. The brains of three age-matched control
marmosets from the same colony did not show these neuropathological features. The
brain of one of two marmosets injected with brain tissue from a patient with
prion disease with concomitant beta-amyloid plaques and cerebral amyloid
angiopathy also showed beta-amyloid plaques and angiopathy but no spongiform
encephalopathy. An occasional plaque was found in the brains of two of four
marmosets injected with brain tissue from three elderly patients with age-related
pathology, two of whom had an additional diagnosis of possible prion disease.
Neither plaques nor cerebral amyloid angiopathy were found in six other marmosets
who were older than the injected animals, in 12 further marmosets who were
slightly younger but who had been injected several years previously with brain
tissue which did not contain beta-amyloid, or in 10 younger marmosets who had
been subjected to various neurosurgical procedures. These results suggest that
cerebral beta-amyloidosis may be induced by the introduction of exogenous amyloid
beta-protein.


PMCID: PMC2002177
PMID: 8217779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

