

408. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 25;9(1):15292. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-51783-9.

Reflexive gaze following in common marmoset monkeys.

Spadacenta S(1), Dicke PW(2), Thier P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
silvia.spadacenta@uni-tuebingen.de.
(2)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
thier@uni-tuebingen.de.

The ability to extract the direction of the other's gaze allows us to shift our
attention to an object of interest to the other and to establish joint attention.
By mapping one's own intentions on the object of joint attention, humans develop 
a Theory of (the other's) Mind (TOM), a functional sequence possibly disrupted in
autism. Gaze following of both humans and old world monkeys is orchestrated by
very similar cortical architectures, strongly suggesting homology. Also new world
monkeys, a primate suborder that split from the old world monkey line about 35
million years ago, have complex social structures and one member of this group,
the common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are known to follow human head-gaze.
However, the question is if they use gaze following to establish joint attention 
with conspecifics. Here we show that this is indeed the case. In a free choice
task, head-restrained marmosets prefer objects gazed at by a conspecific and,
moreover, they exhibit considerably shorter choice reaction times for the same
objects. These findings support the assumption of an evolutionarily old domain
specific faculty shared within the primate order and they underline the potential
value of marmosets in studies of normal and disturbed joint attention.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-51783-9 
PMCID: PMC6814856
PMID: 31653910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. PLoS One. 2019 Oct 23;14(10):e0222486. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0222486.
eCollection 2019.

Are dialects socially learned in marmoset monkeys? Evidence from translocation
experiments.

Zürcher Y(1), Willems EP(1), Burkart JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse, Zürich,
Switzerland.

The acoustic properties of vocalizations in common marmosets differ between
populations. These differences may be the result of social vocal learning, but
they can also result from environmental or genetic differences between
populations. We performed translocation experiments to separately quantify the
influence of a change in the physical environment (experiment 1), and a change in
the social environment (experiment 2) on the acoustic properties of calls from
individual captive common marmosets. If population differences were due to
genetic differences, we expected no change in the vocalizations of the
translocated marmosets. If differences were due to environmental factors, we
expected vocalizations to permanently change contingent with environmental
changes. If social learning was involved, we expected that the vocalizations of
animals translocated to a new population with a different dialect would become
more similar to the new population. In experiment 1, we translocated marmosets to
a different physical environment without changing the social composition of the
groups or their neighbours. Immediately after the translocation to the new
facility, one out of three call types showed a significant change in call
structure, but 5-6 weeks later, the calls were no longer different from before
the translocation. Thus, the novel physical environment did not induce long
lasting changes in the vocalizations of the marmosets. In experiment 2, we
translocated marmosets to a new population with a different dialect. Importantly,
our previous work had shown that these two populations differed significantly in 
vocalization structure. The translocated marmosets were still housed in their
original social group, but after translocation they were surrounded by the
vocalizations from neighbouring groups of the new population. The vocal distance 
between the translocated individuals and the new population decreased for two out
of three call types over 16 weeks. Thus, even without direct social contact or
interaction, the vocalizations of the translocated animals converged towards the 
new population, indicating that common marmosets can modify their calls due to
acoustic input from conspecifics alone, via crowd vocal learning. To our
knowledge, this is the first study able to distinguish between different
explanations for vocal dialects as well as to show crowd vocal learning in a
primate species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0222486 
PMCID: PMC6808547
PMID: 31644527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

