

4080. Biol Reprod. 1993 Sep;49(3):568-76.

Developmental changes in marmoset granulosa cell responsiveness to insulin-like
growth factor-I: interactions with follicle-stimulating hormone and estradiol.

Shaw HJ(1), Boddy SE, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park.

The biological actions of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) on granulosa cell 
steroidogenesis at defined stages of preovulatory follicular development in the
marmoset monkey were examined. Studies were carried out by primary cell culture
of granulosa cells derived from small antral (0.5-1.mm diameter) and large
preovulatory (2-3.mm diameter) follicles collected during the mid-late follicular
phase of the ovarian cycle. IGF-I (0.3-100 ng/ml) had no effect on progesterone
accumulation or aromatase activity during 48-h culture of granulosa cells from
small follicles. Progesterone accumulation by cells from large follicles was also
unaffected by IGF-I over the same time period, although aromatase activity was
stimulated in a dose-dependent manner (18-fold increase over basal levels with a 
maximally stimulatory dose of 30 ng IGF-I/ml). In contrast, granulosa cells from 
small and large follicles responded to IGF-I in terms of both progesterone
accumulation and aromatase activity after longer periods of culture (4 days for
progesterone; 6 days for aromatase). Concurrent treatment of granulosa cells from
small follicles with estradiol (10(-7) M) enhanced the dose-dependent actions of 
IGF-I on both indices of steroidogenesis and advanced the time at which IGF-I
stimulated activity was first detectable. The effects of estradiol on granulosa
cell IGF-I responsiveness were independent of cell number. A synergistic action
of IGF-I on FSH-stimulated granulosa cell steroidogenesis was not
apparent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod49.3.568 
PMID: 8399851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4081. Eur J Immunol. 1993 Sep;23(9):2250-6.

Human immunoglobulin class and IgG subclass regulation: dual action of
interleukin-4.

Kotowicz K(1), Callard RE.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Immunology Unit, Institute of Child Health, London, GB.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) was used as a polyclonal human B cell mitogen to
investigate the regulation of immunoglobulin class and IgG subclass responses by 
interleukin-4 (IL-4). Activation of tonsillar B cells with EBV resulted in an
early peak of polyclonal immunoglobulin secretion between days 13 and 14
consisting of IgM, IgA, and IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, but not IgE. Addition of
IL-4 to EBV-activated B cells at concentrations of 100 U/ml or greater induced
the production of IgE and enhanced IgG4 secretion, but had no effect, or more
often inhibited the other isotypes. In contrast, low concentrations of IL-4 (1-5 
U/ml) significantly increased the production of IgM, IgA, IgG1, IgG2 and IgG3,
but had no effect on IgG4 or IgE. The increase in immunoglobulin secretion
obtained with low concentrations of IL-4 was found to occur only with
high-density (resting) B cells, suggesting that IL-4 was not functioning simply
as a late-acting differentiation factor. Low concentrations of IL-4 significantly
increased IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and IgA production by surface (s) IgM+ (sIgG-/sIgA-) 
B cells which is consistent with heavy chain switching. In some experiments,
however, IL-4 enhanced IgM secretion by sIgM+ B cells, and IgA, IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 
by sIgM- B cells, suggesting that it may have an additional B cell
differentiation factor activity which was not isotype specific. The different
effect of IL-4 at high and low concentrations were similar to those observed in B
cell activation experiments, and may be due to the existence of high- and
low-affinity IL-4 receptors.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.1830230930 
PMID: 8396532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

