

4082. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1993 Sep;75(5):710-4.

Repair of articular defects with autologous mandibular condylar cartilage.

Girdler NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Guy's Hospital, London, England.

Unlike hyaline cartilage, mandibular condylar cartilage can respond to injury by 
complete healing. We have used the reparative potential of mandibular cartilage
to promote repair of defects in a hyaline cartilage joint surface. In 12 adult
marmosets, articular fibrocartilage from the mandibular condyles was transplanted
into full-thickness defects created in the femoral condyles. Additional defects
acted as an ungrafted control group. The grafted defects showed good
incorporation of the transplant with restoration of the articular surface within 
six months. Repair was by proliferation of the fibrocartilaginous graft and
chondrogenesis of hyaline cartilage. The repopulating cells were distributed in a
matrix of maturing collagen and sulphated glycosaminoglycans. Ungrafted control
defects were only partly repaired with fibrous tissue, leaving articular
deficiencies. We conclude that transplanted mandibular fibrocartilage can promote
reconstitution of wounded hyaline cartilage joint surfaces in primates.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.75B5.8376425 
PMID: 8376425  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4083. J Neurochem. 1993 Sep;61(3):804-11.

Antibodies raised against synthetic peptides react with choline acetyltransferase
in various immunoassays and in immunohistochemistry.

Benecke S(1), Ostermann-Latif C, Mäder M, Schmidt B, Unger JW, Westarp ME,
Felgenhauer K.

Author information: 
(1)Neurologische Klinik, Universität Göttingen, F.R.G.

Antisera were raised in rabbits against five synthetic peptides. These peptides
have been identified as potentially antigenic epitopes from the sequence of
porcine choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) using primary and secondary structure
analysis. All five antisera recognized immunoaffinity-purified antigen from
porcine brain in an ELISA and on western blots. Four antisera recognized ChAT on 
dot blots, and another four antisera reacted with native and degraded enzyme in a
sandwich ELISA using monoclonal antibodies as the capture antibody. One peptide
antiserum was of similar avidity in this sandwich ELISA as a polyclonal antibody 
raised against immunoaffinity-purified ChAT. The same antiserum reacted with the 
enzyme from human placenta in an ELISA and on western and dot blots and
recognized ChAT in rat, primate, and human neurons. Thus, a single peptide (amino
acids 168-189) provides the means for easy, reliable, and reproducible generation
of antibodies against ChAT suitable for replacing conventional polyclonal and
monoclonal antibodies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.1993.tb03590.x 
PMID: 8360685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

