

4084. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Sep;99(1):243-51.

Measurement of faecal steroids for monitoring ovarian function in New World
primates, Callitrichidae.

Heistermann M(1), Tari S, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

Measurement of immunoreactive progesterone, pregnanediol and oestradiol in faeces
collected throughout ovarian cycles in three species of callitrichid primates is 
reported. Faecal hormone concentrations were compared with plasma progesterone
profiles during PGF2 alpha-controlled (n = 7) and natural (n = 8) cycles in
Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus fuscicollis, respectively, and with urinary
oestrone conjugates during five cycles in Saguinus oedipus. Unconjugated
steroids, which predominated over enzyme hydrolysable conjugates in samples from 
all species, were used to generate cycle profiles. According to results from
HPLC, oestrone and oestradiol accounted for virtually all oestrogen
immunoreactivity, and oestradiol most often predominated, whereas large amounts
of nonspecific immunoreactivity were detected by both progesterone and
pregnanediol assays. Faecal progestins were excreted in a cyclic manner in all
species; luteal phase values were on average five- to tenfold higher than
corresponding follicular phase values. Significant increases in mean amounts of
faecal progestins were seen within 48 h of the post-ovulatory rise in plasma
progesterone. Although a similar trend was also seen for faecal oestradiol, a
clear and consistent luteal phase increase was seen only in Callithrix jacchus
and this generally occurred later than that of progestins. The results indicate
that faecal progestin analysis provides a useful method for noninvasive
reproductive assessment in callitrichid primates. In particular, measurement of
immunoreactive pregnanediol enables a multispecies application of a single assay 
methodology for comparative studies on callitrichid reproductive function.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0990243 
PMID: 8283445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4085. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1993 Sep;46(1):21-5.

Behavioral effects of the intraventricular administration of 5-HT and dopamine in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Oliveira Mda P(1), Campos Mde F.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brasil.

The effects of IVT serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] and dopamine (DA)
administration have been studied in rats and marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). In
rats, 5-HT (114 and 170 micrograms/10 microliters) produced the same behavioral
effects observed after IP administration of its precursors and agonists. The same
doses of 5-HT used for rats produced only part of the behavioral effects in
marmosets after IP administration of 5-HT precursors and agonists. Ataxia,
vomiting, and decreased motor activity were observed, but not drowsiness or
teeth-chattering. However, IVT administration of DA (400 micrograms/10
microliters dose) produced head movements or checking, ataxia, tongue out, and
decreased motor activity. These findings differ from those observed after IP
administration of l-DOPA and DA agonists, which increase motor activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(93)90311-g 
PMID: 8255914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

