

4087. Prog Neurobiol. 1993 Sep;41(3):345-67.

Audition and the auditory pathway of a vocal New World primate, the common
marmoset.

Aitkin L(1), Park V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

DOI: 10.1016/0301-0082(93)90004-c 
PMID: 8210411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4088. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1993 Sep;2(3):225-42.

Molecular phylogeny of the New World monkeys (Platyrrhini, primates).

Schneider H(1), Schneider MP, Sampaio I, Harada ML, Stanhope M, Czelusniak J,
Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade Federal do Pará, Departamento de Genética, Brazil.

Phylogenetic relationships among the 16 extant genera of Ceboidea (the New World 
monkeys) were examined using aligned epsilon-globin gene sequences from 19 New
World monkeys (representing all 16 extant ceboid genera), and seven catarrhines
(one Old World monkey and six hominoids) and tarsier as the outgroups. The
consensus maximum parsimony tree found for these epsilon-globin sequences and the
levels of support from parsimony and bootstrap analyses, for the clades in this
tree, provided strong evidence for a cladistic classification with the following 
clusters. Subtribes Callitrichina (Callithrix, Cebuella), Callimiconina
(Callimico), Leontopithecina (Leontopithecus), and Saguina (Saguinus) constitute 
subfamily Callitrichinae, and subfamilies Callitrichinae, Aotinae (Aotus),
Saimiriinae (Saimiri), and Cebinae (Cebus) constitute family Cebidae. In turn,
subtribes Chiropotina (Chiropotes, Cacajao) and Pitheciina (Pithecia) constitute 
tribe Pithecini, tribes Pitheciini and Callicebini (Callicebus) constitute
subfamily Pitheciinae, tribes Atelini (Brachyteles, Lagothrix, Ateles) and
Alouattini (Alouatta) constitute subfamily Atelinae, and subfamilies Pitheciinae 
and Atelinae constitute family Atelidae. The two families (Cebidae and Atelidae) 
constitute the Ceboidea, the only extant superfamily of infraorder Platyrrhini.
The sister-group relationships of Brachyteles and Lagothrix, Saguinus and
Leontopithecus, and Callimico with a Cebuella/Callithrix clade is not as well
supported by the parsimony and bootstrap analyses. Therefore, these relationships
are not incorporated in the proposed cladistic classification. On determining
branch lengths for the ceboid phylogenetic tree from only the more freely
evolving noncoding sequences at the epsilon-globin locus and taking the reference
age of 35 million years ago (MYA) for the New World monkey-catarrhine branch
point, we estimated the age of the atelid-cebid branch point as about 20 MYA, and
the ages of the next branch points, those between the subfamilies in each family,
as 19-16 MYA.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1993.1022 
PMID: 8136923  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

