

4091. Virology. 1993 Aug;195(2):608-15.

An origin of DNA replication (oriP) in highly methylated episomal Epstein-Barr
virus DNA localizes to a 4.5-kb unmethylated region.

Falk K(1), Ernberg I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reveals two types of interactions with human B
lymphocytes. In immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCL), nine virus-coded
proteins are expressed: six nuclear (EBNA1-6) and three membrane proteins (LMP1, 
TP 1,2). In Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) tumors and representative cell lines (type I)
only EBNA-1 is expressed. The viral genomes are carried by the cells in an
extrachromosal, episomal form. We have earlier described an overall difference in
EBV DNA methylation between LCLs of normal B-cell origin and type I BL lines. EBV
genomes are hypomethylated in the former, methylated in the latter. The origin of
replication (oriP) for the episomal DNA is exempted from this overall
methylation. This unmethylated region was analyzed in the BL derived type I cell 
line Rael. It starts just upstream of the coding exons for the small untranslated
RNAs EBER I/II. It extends throughout oriP and includes several control elements 
between oriP and the first promoter for EBNA transcription (BCR2). The viral DNA 
was methylated around and downstream of that promoter, which is not used for
EBNA-1 expression in Rael.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1993.1412 
PMID: 8393238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4092. Virology. 1993 Aug;195(2):387-96.

Epstein-Barr virus glycoprotein gp85 associates with the BKRF2 gene product and
is incompletely processed as a recombinant protein.

Yaswen LR(1), Stephens EB, Davenport LC, Hutt-Fletcher LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Florida,
Gainesville 32610.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) glycoprotein gp85 is the EBV gH homologue and is
thought to be involved in penetration of virus through the B-cell membrane.
However, although the glycoprotein is functionally important, it is found in very
low abundance in infected cells and in the virion. To facilitate analysis of the 
structure and function of gp85, recombinant vaccinia viruses were constructed to 
express the glycoprotein. Recombinant gp85 was recognized by polyclonal antibody 
made to a peptide derived from the gp85 sequence, but not by monoclonal
antibodies that reacted with the native molecule. Unlike native gp85, the
recombinant protein contained no sugars that were resistant to endoglycosidase H 
and it was not transported to the cell surface. The native protein was found to
be associated with two additional glycoproteins with apparent M(r) of 25,000 and 
42,000. Antibody made to a peptide derived from a sequence in the BKRF2 open
reading frame immunoprecipitated glycoproteins with the mobilities of gp85 and
its associated 25,000-Da molecule. These data suggest that the BKRF2 gene
product, like that encoded by its positional homologues gL of herpes simplex
virus and the UL115 gene product of human cytomegalovirus, associates with gp85
and may be required for glycoprotein processing.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1993.1388 
PMID: 8393232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

