

4092. Virology. 1993 Aug;195(2):387-96.

Epstein-Barr virus glycoprotein gp85 associates with the BKRF2 gene product and
is incompletely processed as a recombinant protein.

Yaswen LR(1), Stephens EB, Davenport LC, Hutt-Fletcher LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Florida,
Gainesville 32610.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) glycoprotein gp85 is the EBV gH homologue and is
thought to be involved in penetration of virus through the B-cell membrane.
However, although the glycoprotein is functionally important, it is found in very
low abundance in infected cells and in the virion. To facilitate analysis of the 
structure and function of gp85, recombinant vaccinia viruses were constructed to 
express the glycoprotein. Recombinant gp85 was recognized by polyclonal antibody 
made to a peptide derived from the gp85 sequence, but not by monoclonal
antibodies that reacted with the native molecule. Unlike native gp85, the
recombinant protein contained no sugars that were resistant to endoglycosidase H 
and it was not transported to the cell surface. The native protein was found to
be associated with two additional glycoproteins with apparent M(r) of 25,000 and 
42,000. Antibody made to a peptide derived from a sequence in the BKRF2 open
reading frame immunoprecipitated glycoproteins with the mobilities of gp85 and
its associated 25,000-Da molecule. These data suggest that the BKRF2 gene
product, like that encoded by its positional homologues gL of herpes simplex
virus and the UL115 gene product of human cytomegalovirus, associates with gp85
and may be required for glycoprotein processing.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1993.1388 
PMID: 8393232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4093. Physiol Behav. 1993 Aug;54(2):301-7.

Sexual and aggressive behaviour of adult male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
castrated neonatally, prepubertally, or in adulthood.

Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

During early postnatal development, males of some primate species exhibit higher 
levels of plasma testosterone than females. The possible significance of this for
behavioural development was examined in male marmosets castrated neonatally (NC),
prepubertally (PC), or in adulthood (AC) and reared in their natal groups.
Age-matched intact (AI) adult males served as controls. All males were removed
from their natal groups as adults for pair testing with unfamiliar conspecific
males and females. NC males did not mount, but were frequently aggressive during 
tests with females. NC males also elicited aggression from females but rarely
from intact males. PC and AC males attempted copulation during the majority of
tests with females; less aggression occurred but more so in tests with PC males
than between females and AC males. Aggression between PC or AC males and intact
males was much more frequent than when NC males met intacts in paired encounters.
Results show that secretion of testicular hormones during infancy in male
marmosets has important effects upon the development of sexual and aggressive
behaviour. Castration in infancy has measurably different effects upon
behavioural development than castration performed later in life (prepubertally or
in adulthood).

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(93)90115-v 
PMID: 8372125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

