

4093. Physiol Behav. 1993 Aug;54(2):301-7.

Sexual and aggressive behaviour of adult male marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
castrated neonatally, prepubertally, or in adulthood.

Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

During early postnatal development, males of some primate species exhibit higher 
levels of plasma testosterone than females. The possible significance of this for
behavioural development was examined in male marmosets castrated neonatally (NC),
prepubertally (PC), or in adulthood (AC) and reared in their natal groups.
Age-matched intact (AI) adult males served as controls. All males were removed
from their natal groups as adults for pair testing with unfamiliar conspecific
males and females. NC males did not mount, but were frequently aggressive during 
tests with females. NC males also elicited aggression from females but rarely
from intact males. PC and AC males attempted copulation during the majority of
tests with females; less aggression occurred but more so in tests with PC males
than between females and AC males. Aggression between PC or AC males and intact
males was much more frequent than when NC males met intacts in paired encounters.
Results show that secretion of testicular hormones during infancy in male
marmosets has important effects upon the development of sexual and aggressive
behaviour. Castration in infancy has measurably different effects upon
behavioural development than castration performed later in life (prepubertally or
in adulthood).

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(93)90115-v 
PMID: 8372125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4094. Am J Physiol. 1993 Aug;265(2 Pt 2):R414-9.

Selective retention of essential fatty acids: the role of hepatic
monoacylglycerol acyltransferase.

Xia T(1), Mostafa N, Bhat BG, Florant GL, Coleman RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 27599.

In the suckling rat, chick embryo, and hibernating marmot, fatty acids provide
the major source of energy, and despite the high rate of hepatic beta-oxidation, 
these animals selectively retain long-chain polyunsaturated derivatives of
C18:2n-6 and C18:3n-3. To determine whether the hepatic microsomal activity
monoacylglycerol acyltransferase (MGAT) (EC 2.3.1.22) could provide a mechanism
to selectively acylate monoacylglycerols that contain essential fatty acids, we
tested the ability of MGAT activity from each of the three species to acylate
sn-2-monoC18:1-, sn-2-monoC18:2-, sn-2-monoC18:3-, and sn-2-monoC20:4-glycerols. 
Hepatic MGAT activity acylated sn-2-monoC18:3-glycerol and
sn-2-monoC18:2-glycerol in preference to sn-2-monoC18:1-glycerol in each of the
three different lipolytic animals. MGAT's acyl group specificity could not be
explained by invoking differences in membrane fluidity because the apparent
affinity for sn-2-monoC20:4-glycerol was not increased. Further,
sn-2-monoC18:3-glycerol remained a preferred substrate under assay conditions
when both the C18:3 and C18:1 species were present in equal amounts. As would be 
predicted in the presence of high activity of a selective MGAT, the hepatic
glycerolipids from neonatal rats showed increases in dienoic, trienoic, and C22:6
fatty acids and relative decreases in monoenoic, saturated, and C20:4 fatty
acids. We hypothesize that, during lipolysis, the reacylation of
sn-2-monoacylglycerols by MGAT may provide a mechanism by which essential fatty
acids are retained within specific tissues.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.1993.265.2.R414 
PMID: 8368397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

