

4094. Am J Physiol. 1993 Aug;265(2 Pt 2):R414-9.

Selective retention of essential fatty acids: the role of hepatic
monoacylglycerol acyltransferase.

Xia T(1), Mostafa N, Bhat BG, Florant GL, Coleman RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 27599.

In the suckling rat, chick embryo, and hibernating marmot, fatty acids provide
the major source of energy, and despite the high rate of hepatic beta-oxidation, 
these animals selectively retain long-chain polyunsaturated derivatives of
C18:2n-6 and C18:3n-3. To determine whether the hepatic microsomal activity
monoacylglycerol acyltransferase (MGAT) (EC 2.3.1.22) could provide a mechanism
to selectively acylate monoacylglycerols that contain essential fatty acids, we
tested the ability of MGAT activity from each of the three species to acylate
sn-2-monoC18:1-, sn-2-monoC18:2-, sn-2-monoC18:3-, and sn-2-monoC20:4-glycerols. 
Hepatic MGAT activity acylated sn-2-monoC18:3-glycerol and
sn-2-monoC18:2-glycerol in preference to sn-2-monoC18:1-glycerol in each of the
three different lipolytic animals. MGAT's acyl group specificity could not be
explained by invoking differences in membrane fluidity because the apparent
affinity for sn-2-monoC20:4-glycerol was not increased. Further,
sn-2-monoC18:3-glycerol remained a preferred substrate under assay conditions
when both the C18:3 and C18:1 species were present in equal amounts. As would be 
predicted in the presence of high activity of a selective MGAT, the hepatic
glycerolipids from neonatal rats showed increases in dienoic, trienoic, and C22:6
fatty acids and relative decreases in monoenoic, saturated, and C20:4 fatty
acids. We hypothesize that, during lipolysis, the reacylation of
sn-2-monoacylglycerols by MGAT may provide a mechanism by which essential fatty
acids are retained within specific tissues.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.1993.265.2.R414 
PMID: 8368397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4095. Neuroscience. 1993 Aug;55(4):1085-91.

Regional distribution of sulfonylurea receptors in the brain of rodent and
primate.

Zini S(1), Tremblay E, Pollard H, Moreau J, Ben-Ari Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et Physiopathologie du d√©veloppement, INSERM U29,
Paris, France.

Glibenclamide, one of the most potent antidiabetic sulfonylureas, inhibits the
activity of ATP-sensitive K+ channels in the pancreas as well as in the brain
through its binding to specific receptors. Quantitative autoradiography was used 
to localize such receptors in the brain of rat, mouse, guinea-pig and marmoset,
using [3H]glibenclamide as radioligand. In all four species, specific
glibenclamide binding sites were found to be heterogeneously distributed. The
highest densities were in the cerebral cortex, the molecular layer of the
cerebellar cortex, the thalamus and the caudate-putamen. The globus pallidus and 
the substantia nigra were highly labelled in rat and mouse but poorly labelled in
guinea-pig and marmoset. The distribution of glibenclamide binding sites in the
hippocampus was different between the rodents and marmoset; in rodents, most
binding sites were distributed in the fascia dentata and the CA3-CA4 fields of
Ammon's horn, contrasting with a very homogeneous distribution in all subfields
of the marmoset hippocampus. In conclusion, we demonstrate that primate brain
contains specific binding sites for [3H]glibenclamide with a distribution not
exactly similar to that in rodent brain.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(93)90322-7 
PMID: 8232899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

