

4095. Neuroscience. 1993 Aug;55(4):1085-91.

Regional distribution of sulfonylurea receptors in the brain of rodent and
primate.

Zini S(1), Tremblay E, Pollard H, Moreau J, Ben-Ari Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et Physiopathologie du d√©veloppement, INSERM U29,
Paris, France.

Glibenclamide, one of the most potent antidiabetic sulfonylureas, inhibits the
activity of ATP-sensitive K+ channels in the pancreas as well as in the brain
through its binding to specific receptors. Quantitative autoradiography was used 
to localize such receptors in the brain of rat, mouse, guinea-pig and marmoset,
using [3H]glibenclamide as radioligand. In all four species, specific
glibenclamide binding sites were found to be heterogeneously distributed. The
highest densities were in the cerebral cortex, the molecular layer of the
cerebellar cortex, the thalamus and the caudate-putamen. The globus pallidus and 
the substantia nigra were highly labelled in rat and mouse but poorly labelled in
guinea-pig and marmoset. The distribution of glibenclamide binding sites in the
hippocampus was different between the rodents and marmoset; in rodents, most
binding sites were distributed in the fascia dentata and the CA3-CA4 fields of
Ammon's horn, contrasting with a very homogeneous distribution in all subfields
of the marmoset hippocampus. In conclusion, we demonstrate that primate brain
contains specific binding sites for [3H]glibenclamide with a distribution not
exactly similar to that in rodent brain.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(93)90322-7 
PMID: 8232899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4096. J Endocrinol. 1993 Aug;138(2):291-8.

The luteotrophic actions of prostaglandins E2 and F2 alpha on dispersed marmoset 
luteal cells are differentially mediated via cyclic AMP and protein kinase C.

Michael AE(1), Abayasekara DR, Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Royal Free Hospital School of Medicine, London,
U.K.

Progesterone production by dispersed luteal cells obtained from the marmoset
monkey on day 14 after ovulation can be stimulated by both prostaglandin F2 alpha
(PGF2 alpha) and its structural analogue, cloprostenol. To establish whether
these responses can be attributed to cross-reaction with the prostaglandin E2
(PGE2) receptor, this study compared the involvement of cyclic
adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) and protein kinase C (PKC) in the
luteotrophic responses to PGE2, PGF2 alpha and cloprostenol. While all three
prostaglandins stimulated similar increases in progesterone production (239.5 +/-
7.9% of control; P < 0.01), only PGE2 stimulated a significant increase in cAMP
accumulation (373.2 +/- 28.4% of control; P < 0.01). This study is the first to
demonstrate PKC activity in the marmoset ovary. Following down-regulation of PKC 
with a tumour-promoting phorbol ester, 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (4 
beta-PMA), basal progesterone production was significantly increased (150.9 +/-
8.2% of control; P < 0.05) and the luteotrophic effects of PGF2 alpha and
cloprostenol were no longer evident, whereas the response to PGE2 was unaffected.
These observations are consistent with the differential involvement of cAMP and
PKC in the luteotrophic responses to PGE2 and PGF2 alpha/cloprostenol
respectively. Hence, we conclude that the luteotrophic actions of prostaglandins 
E2 and F2 alpha on dispersed marmoset luteal cells are mediated via different
receptors and signal transduction pathways.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1380291 
PMID: 8228738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

