

4096. J Endocrinol. 1993 Aug;138(2):291-8.

The luteotrophic actions of prostaglandins E2 and F2 alpha on dispersed marmoset 
luteal cells are differentially mediated via cyclic AMP and protein kinase C.

Michael AE(1), Abayasekara DR, Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Royal Free Hospital School of Medicine, London,
U.K.

Progesterone production by dispersed luteal cells obtained from the marmoset
monkey on day 14 after ovulation can be stimulated by both prostaglandin F2 alpha
(PGF2 alpha) and its structural analogue, cloprostenol. To establish whether
these responses can be attributed to cross-reaction with the prostaglandin E2
(PGE2) receptor, this study compared the involvement of cyclic
adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) and protein kinase C (PKC) in the
luteotrophic responses to PGE2, PGF2 alpha and cloprostenol. While all three
prostaglandins stimulated similar increases in progesterone production (239.5 +/-
7.9% of control; P < 0.01), only PGE2 stimulated a significant increase in cAMP
accumulation (373.2 +/- 28.4% of control; P < 0.01). This study is the first to
demonstrate PKC activity in the marmoset ovary. Following down-regulation of PKC 
with a tumour-promoting phorbol ester, 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (4 
beta-PMA), basal progesterone production was significantly increased (150.9 +/-
8.2% of control; P < 0.05) and the luteotrophic effects of PGF2 alpha and
cloprostenol were no longer evident, whereas the response to PGE2 was unaffected.
These observations are consistent with the differential involvement of cAMP and
PKC in the luteotrophic responses to PGE2 and PGF2 alpha/cloprostenol
respectively. Hence, we conclude that the luteotrophic actions of prostaglandins 
E2 and F2 alpha on dispersed marmoset luteal cells are mediated via different
receptors and signal transduction pathways.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1380291 
PMID: 8228738  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4097. Neuroscience. 1993 Aug;55(3):823-32.

Chronic administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine to
monkeys: behavioural, morphological and biochemical correlates.

Albanese A(1), Granata R, Gregori B, Piccardi MP, Colosimo C, Tonali P.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Neurologia, UniversitÃ  Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Roma, Italy.

The behavioural, biochemical and morphological effects of a chronic
administration of low doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP) were studied in the common marmoset. Monkeys received the toxin (1 mg/kg
i.p.) twice a week for four months. Group A monkeys were studied one week after
the last injection of MPTP; group B monkeys were studied eight months after the
last toxic injection. The monkey behaviour was observed throughout the
experiment; the biochemical and morphological correlates were studied post mortem
in the neostriatum and in the substantia nigra, respectively. Data collected from
MPTP-treated marmosets were compared to those obtained from sham-injected control
monkeys. The results can be summarized as follows. (1) In all MPTP-treated
marmosets a progressive Parkinsonism occurred. In group B monkeys, a gradual
behavioural recovery was observed after MPTP was discontinued. (2) Biochemical
analysis of group A marmosets showed a depletion of dopamine, of
3,4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid and of homovanillic acid, and no variations in
dopamine turnover in the neostriatum of MPTP-treated marmosets. In group B,
biochemical analysis showed no differences between controls and MPTP-treated
animals. (3) Morphological analysis showed that the density of midbrain
dopaminergic neurons located in the substantia nigra was unchanged in group A
monkeys, but was reduced by 6.8% in MPTP-treated monkeys of group B. The
measurement of cross-sectional area showed that midbrain dopaminergic neurons
were swollen in MPTP-treated monkeys of group A, with a 11.0% increase of cell
size as compared to controls. In group A the nuclei were also swollen, being
304.8% larger in MPTP-treated monkeys, with a nucleus-to-cytoplasm ratio of 65.9%
(as compared to 34.0% of controls). In group B monkeys cell size was increased by
18.4% in MPTP-treated marmosets, but the nuclei were of comparable size. The
present data show that a chronic administration of low doses of MPTP brings about
biochemical and morphological abnormalities. The first occur acutely in terminals
and are reverted early after discontinuance of exposure to the toxin; the latter 
occur in dopaminergic perikarya, last longer than biochemical abnormalities and, 
at variance with them, increase in severity after MPTP is discontinued.
Morphological abnormalities include early events, such as a transient swelling of
nuclei or a long-lasting swelling of neurons, and late events, such as a decrease
in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive perikarya.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(93)90444-k 
PMID: 8105418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

