

4097. Neuroscience. 1993 Aug;55(3):823-32.

Chronic administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine to
monkeys: behavioural, morphological and biochemical correlates.

Albanese A(1), Granata R, Gregori B, Piccardi MP, Colosimo C, Tonali P.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Neurologia, Universit√† Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Roma, Italy.

The behavioural, biochemical and morphological effects of a chronic
administration of low doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP) were studied in the common marmoset. Monkeys received the toxin (1 mg/kg
i.p.) twice a week for four months. Group A monkeys were studied one week after
the last injection of MPTP; group B monkeys were studied eight months after the
last toxic injection. The monkey behaviour was observed throughout the
experiment; the biochemical and morphological correlates were studied post mortem
in the neostriatum and in the substantia nigra, respectively. Data collected from
MPTP-treated marmosets were compared to those obtained from sham-injected control
monkeys. The results can be summarized as follows. (1) In all MPTP-treated
marmosets a progressive Parkinsonism occurred. In group B monkeys, a gradual
behavioural recovery was observed after MPTP was discontinued. (2) Biochemical
analysis of group A marmosets showed a depletion of dopamine, of
3,4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid and of homovanillic acid, and no variations in
dopamine turnover in the neostriatum of MPTP-treated marmosets. In group B,
biochemical analysis showed no differences between controls and MPTP-treated
animals. (3) Morphological analysis showed that the density of midbrain
dopaminergic neurons located in the substantia nigra was unchanged in group A
monkeys, but was reduced by 6.8% in MPTP-treated monkeys of group B. The
measurement of cross-sectional area showed that midbrain dopaminergic neurons
were swollen in MPTP-treated monkeys of group A, with a 11.0% increase of cell
size as compared to controls. In group A the nuclei were also swollen, being
304.8% larger in MPTP-treated monkeys, with a nucleus-to-cytoplasm ratio of 65.9%
(as compared to 34.0% of controls). In group B monkeys cell size was increased by
18.4% in MPTP-treated marmosets, but the nuclei were of comparable size. The
present data show that a chronic administration of low doses of MPTP brings about
biochemical and morphological abnormalities. The first occur acutely in terminals
and are reverted early after discontinuance of exposure to the toxin; the latter 
occur in dopaminergic perikarya, last longer than biochemical abnormalities and, 
at variance with them, increase in severity after MPTP is discontinued.
Morphological abnormalities include early events, such as a transient swelling of
nuclei or a long-lasting swelling of neurons, and late events, such as a decrease
in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive perikarya.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(93)90444-k 
PMID: 8105418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4098. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Jul 20;238(2-3):235-40.

Effects of talipexole on motor behavior in normal and MPTP-treated common
marmosets.

Irifune M(1), Nomoto M, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Kagoshima University, Japan.

Administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP, 0.5
mg/animal i.v. once or twice) to common marmosets induced persistent parkinsonian
motor deficits. The postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptor agonist properties of
talipexole (B-HT 920,
2-amino-6-allyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4H-thiazolo[4,5-d]-azepine), which is believed
to be a dopamine autoreceptor agonist, were examined using normal and
MPTP-treated marmosets and were compared to these properties of bromocriptine, a 
selective dopamine D2 receptor agonist. Talipexole (20-160 micrograms/kg i.p.)
dose dependently increased motor activity and reversed the akinesia and
incoordination of movement in MPTP-treated marmosets. In normal marmosets, higher
doses of talipexole (80-160 micrograms/kg i.p.) produced a dose-dependent
increase in motor activity, while the lowest dose (20 micrograms/kg i.p.)
depressed this activity. These data for talipexole were very similar to those for
bromocriptine. Talipexole had, however, several properties different from those
of bromocriptine; it had a rapid onset of antiparkinsonian activity compared to
bromocriptine; it had more than 25 times as much activity potency as
bromocriptine; a dose of talipexole (80 micrograms/kg i.p.) sufficient to produce
the activity did not induce emesis as strongly as an insufficient dose of
bromocriptine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.). These results suggest that talipexole has
postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptor agonist properties and that these properties of
talipexole may be favorable in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90852-9 
PMID: 8104807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

