

4098. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Jul 20;238(2-3):235-40.

Effects of talipexole on motor behavior in normal and MPTP-treated common
marmosets.

Irifune M(1), Nomoto M, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Kagoshima University, Japan.

Administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP, 0.5
mg/animal i.v. once or twice) to common marmosets induced persistent parkinsonian
motor deficits. The postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptor agonist properties of
talipexole (B-HT 920,
2-amino-6-allyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4H-thiazolo[4,5-d]-azepine), which is believed
to be a dopamine autoreceptor agonist, were examined using normal and
MPTP-treated marmosets and were compared to these properties of bromocriptine, a 
selective dopamine D2 receptor agonist. Talipexole (20-160 micrograms/kg i.p.)
dose dependently increased motor activity and reversed the akinesia and
incoordination of movement in MPTP-treated marmosets. In normal marmosets, higher
doses of talipexole (80-160 micrograms/kg i.p.) produced a dose-dependent
increase in motor activity, while the lowest dose (20 micrograms/kg i.p.)
depressed this activity. These data for talipexole were very similar to those for
bromocriptine. Talipexole had, however, several properties different from those
of bromocriptine; it had a rapid onset of antiparkinsonian activity compared to
bromocriptine; it had more than 25 times as much activity potency as
bromocriptine; a dose of talipexole (80 micrograms/kg i.p.) sufficient to produce
the activity did not induce emesis as strongly as an insufficient dose of
bromocriptine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.). These results suggest that talipexole has
postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptor agonist properties and that these properties of
talipexole may be favorable in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90852-9 
PMID: 8104807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4099. Biochem Pharmacol. 1993 Jul 20;46(2):213-20.

Identification of the epitope of an anti-peptide antibody which binds to CYP1A2
in many species including man.

Edwards RJ(1), Murray BP, Singleton AM, Murray S, Davies DS, Boobis AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
London, U.K.

An anti-peptide antibody was raised against the sequence
Thr-Gly-Ala-Leu-Phe-Lys-His-Ser-Glu-Asn-Tyr-Lys which occurs at positions 283-294
in the rat cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP1A2. Compared with its binding to the
peptide used for immunization, the antibody bound with only slightly reduced
affinity to the truncated peptides Thr-Gly-Ala-Leu-Phe-Lys-His-Ser and
Leu-Phe-Lys-His-Ser. However, binding to the peptide Ser-Glu-Asn-Tyr-Lys-Asp-Asn,
which overlaps with the C-terminal region of the immunizing peptide, was very
low. Thus, a major epitope for the anti-peptide antibody is Leu-Phe-Lys-His-Ser, 
which corresponds to a region of CYP1A2 that is conserved in many species. The
antibody was tested by immunoblotting for its ability to bind to hepatic
microsomal fractions from a number of species. Where possible animals were
treated with compounds which induce CYP1A2 and the results compared with those
with untreated animals. It was found that the antibody bound to rat, mouse,
rabbit, hamster, guinea pig, pig, marmoset monkey and human CYP1A2. No evidence
was found for binding to dog CYP1A2. The region corresponding to the major
epitope at residues 286-290 of rat CYP1A2 was identical in mouse, hamster, rabbit
and human CYP1A2. The sequence of marmoset and guinea pig CYP1A2 are not known
but are predicted to be very similar to the sequence in the rat. The lack of
binding of the antibody to dog CYP1A2 may be explained by two differences in this
region compared with rat CYP1A2. Maximum inhibition of CYP1A2 activity by this
antibody, as measured by high-affinity phenacetin O-deethylase activity, was 20%.
This is in contrast to a previously described anti-peptide antibody directed to
an adjacent region which caused 65% inhibition of this activity. Thus, the edge
of an inhibitory region on the surface of cytochrome P450 has been identified.
The ability of the antibody to bind to CYP1A2 from a number of animals should
make this antibody of use for studying the levels of CYP1A2 apoprotein in many
species.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(93)90406-m 
PMID: 7688509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

