

4099. Biochem Pharmacol. 1993 Jul 20;46(2):213-20.

Identification of the epitope of an anti-peptide antibody which binds to CYP1A2
in many species including man.

Edwards RJ(1), Murray BP, Singleton AM, Murray S, Davies DS, Boobis AR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
London, U.K.

An anti-peptide antibody was raised against the sequence
Thr-Gly-Ala-Leu-Phe-Lys-His-Ser-Glu-Asn-Tyr-Lys which occurs at positions 283-294
in the rat cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP1A2. Compared with its binding to the
peptide used for immunization, the antibody bound with only slightly reduced
affinity to the truncated peptides Thr-Gly-Ala-Leu-Phe-Lys-His-Ser and
Leu-Phe-Lys-His-Ser. However, binding to the peptide Ser-Glu-Asn-Tyr-Lys-Asp-Asn,
which overlaps with the C-terminal region of the immunizing peptide, was very
low. Thus, a major epitope for the anti-peptide antibody is Leu-Phe-Lys-His-Ser, 
which corresponds to a region of CYP1A2 that is conserved in many species. The
antibody was tested by immunoblotting for its ability to bind to hepatic
microsomal fractions from a number of species. Where possible animals were
treated with compounds which induce CYP1A2 and the results compared with those
with untreated animals. It was found that the antibody bound to rat, mouse,
rabbit, hamster, guinea pig, pig, marmoset monkey and human CYP1A2. No evidence
was found for binding to dog CYP1A2. The region corresponding to the major
epitope at residues 286-290 of rat CYP1A2 was identical in mouse, hamster, rabbit
and human CYP1A2. The sequence of marmoset and guinea pig CYP1A2 are not known
but are predicted to be very similar to the sequence in the rat. The lack of
binding of the antibody to dog CYP1A2 may be explained by two differences in this
region compared with rat CYP1A2. Maximum inhibition of CYP1A2 activity by this
antibody, as measured by high-affinity phenacetin O-deethylase activity, was 20%.
This is in contrast to a previously described anti-peptide antibody directed to
an adjacent region which caused 65% inhibition of this activity. Thus, the edge
of an inhibitory region on the surface of cytochrome P450 has been identified.
The ability of the antibody to bind to CYP1A2 from a number of animals should
make this antibody of use for studying the levels of CYP1A2 apoprotein in many
species.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(93)90406-m 
PMID: 7688509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4100. J Comp Neurol. 1993 Jul 1;333(1):53-67.

Pre- and postnatal development of the primary visual cortex of the common
marmoset. II. Formation, remodelling, and elimination of synapses as overlapping 
processes.

Missler M(1), Wolff A, Merker HJ, Wolff JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

During ontogenesis changes in the numerical density of synapses are usually
assumed to depend essentially on variations in the formation of synapses. Only
the final adjustment to adult synapse densities is thought to include the
elimination of synapses in some brain regions of certain species. Here, we focus 
attention on quantitative aspects of synapse elimination throughout development
of area 17 of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Mature synapses, various
precursor forms, and indicators of lysosomal degradation of synapses were
quantitatively analysed by electron microscopy and morphometric methods. A total 
number of about 135 x 10(9) synapses was calculated for area 17 in each adult
hemisphere corresponding to a volume density of 600 x 10(6) synapses/mm3. At 3
months of age, the respective values were 508 x 10(9)/area and 1,159 x 10(6)/mm3,
while at birth these values were 69 x 10(9)/area and 328 x 10(6)/mm3.
Consequently, at least three out of four synapses are eliminated between 3 months
and adulthood. However, the real number of synapses being eliminated during
development is probably much larger if the time course of lysosomal degradation
is additionally taken into account. The frequency of lysosomes in presynaptic
endings is highest before net-elimination of synapses occurs, i.e., between 1 and
3 months. This suggests that lysosomal degradation is not directly responsible
for the majority of synapses removed during ontogenesis but apparently represents
a second mechanism for synapse remodelling and elimination. Thus, it appears from
this study that remodelling and elimination of synapses are quantitatively as
important as their formation, and accompany synaptogenesis from its very onset
onwards.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903330105 
PMID: 8340496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

