

41. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2021 Dec;211:173300. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2021.173300.
Epub 2021 Nov 16.

Scopolamine and MK-801 impair recognition memory in a new spontaneous object
exploration task in monkeys.

Oliveira AWC(1), Pacheco JVN(1), Costa CS(1), Aquino J(1), Maior RS(2), Barros
M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia 70910-900, Brazil.
(2)Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, Brasilia,
Brazil; Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia 70910-900, Brazil; Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil. Electronic address: mbarros@unb.br.

The spontaneous object recognition (SOR) task is one of the most widely used
behavioral protocols to assess visual memory in animals. However, only recently
was it shown that nonhuman primates also perform well on this task. Here we
further characterized this new monkey recognition memory test by assessing the
performance of adult marmosets after an acute systemic administration of two
putative amnesic agents: the competitive muscarinic acetylcholine receptor
antagonist scopolamine (SCP; 0.05 mg/kg) and the noncompetitive
N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.015 mg/kg). We also 
determined whether the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donepezil (DNP;
0.50 mg/kg), a clinically-used cognitive enhancer, reverses memory deficits
caused by either drug. The subjects had an initial 10 min sample trial where two 
identical neutral objects could be explored. After a 6 h retention interval,
recognition was based on an exploratory preference for a new rather than familiar
object during a 10 min test trial. Both SCP and MK-801 impaired the marmosets'
performance on the SOR task, as both objects were explored equivalently.
Co-administration of 0.50 mg/kg of DNP reversed the SCP- but not the
MK-801-induced memory deficit. These results indicate that cholinergic and
glutamatergic pathways mediate object recognition memory in the monkey SOR task.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2021.173300 
PMID: 34798097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Exp Anim. 2021 Nov 18. doi: 10.1538/expanim.21-0134. [Epub ahead of print]

Whole blood transfusion in common marmosets: a clinical evaluation.

Yurimoto T(1), Mineshige T(1)(2), Shinohara H(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals Department of Marmoset Biology and 
Medicine.
(2)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro University of Agriculture and
Veterinary Medicine.

In veterinary medicine, blood transfusion is commonly performed on companion
animals. The common marmoset is a small nonhuman primate with increasing
popularity as an animal model in biomedical research. Because of its small whole 
blood volume, the marmoset is at high risk of exsanguination, and blood
transfusion is required to care for life-threatening bleeding. However, few
clinical evaluations exist on transfusions for marmosets. This study performed
whole blood transfusion with cross-matching on nine marmosets and surveyed the
therapeutic effects. Recipients included clinical cases with persistent bleeding,
anemia, and coma, as well as animals subjected to postoperative bleeding
prophylaxis. Donors were selected from healthy marmosets, including littermates. 
Cross-match assay before transfusion were all negative, and recipients showed no 
visible signs of transfusion-related adverse reactions. Whole blood transfusions 
caused hemostasis and successful recovery in bleeding marmosets, including
long-term improvement of anemia cases. Our results indicated that blood
transfusion is effective for marmosets with severe anemia and persistent
hemorrhage from both non-experimental and surgical causes. Furthermore, DNA
sequencing for blood-group classification revealed that all subject marmosets
were type A, suggesting that the risk of blood type mismatch may be low in this
species.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.21-0134 
PMID: 34789617 

