

4101. J Comp Neurol. 1993 Jul 1;333(1):41-52.

Pre- and postnatal development of the primary visual cortex of the common
marmoset. I. A changing space for synaptogenesis.

Missler M(1), Eins S, Merker HJ, Rothe H, Wolff JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The primary visual cortex of Callithrix jacchus occupies a large portion of the
occipital neocortex and can be safely delineated from fetal stages onwards. In 20
animals ranging in age from fetal to adult age the morphological development of
area 17 was evaluated and compared with the growth of whole brain, skull, and
head size. Cortical thickness, surface area, and volume of the area were
determined in addition to predominant growth directions. The volume of area 17
approximately doubles between birth (241 mm3) and three months of age (506 mm3). 
This maximum value marks an overshoot in growth (volume: 180%, surface area:
150%, thickness: 122%), which is followed by a considerable reduction before
adult values (100%) are reached. Although these values seem to indicate that the 
overall reduction in size is fairly isometric, growth and regression are locally 
anisometric. For example, layers II-IVc contribute disproportionately to the
overshoot; thickening is less pronounced than tangential growth and follows a
slightly different time course. These data suggest that the developing visual
cortex represents a highly dynamic distribution space for the developing synaptic
junctions which should be taken into account in studies on synaptogenesis. By
comparison it is suggested that this growth dynamic is not restricted to area 17 
but also occurs in some other parts of the cerebral cortex. In contrast, most
subcortical brain regions apparently do not undergo overshoot growth. Structural 
changes of the skull compensate the overshoot in cortex growth, so that head size
increases steadily.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903330104 
PMID: 8340495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4102. Vision Res. 1993 Jul;33(10):1311-24.

Ocular development and visual deprivation myopia in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Troilo D(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853.

The normal postnatal ocular development of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and the effects of visual deprivation on eye growth and refractive state
are described. The marmoset normally undergoes a developmental process of
emmetropization from high hyperopia at birth. This emmetropization is easily
disrupted by visual deprivation produced by lid-suture. Myopia and axial
elongation of the vitreous chamber are induced by visual deprivations of 12, 5,
and 3 weeks duration. The development of axial myopia after 3 weeks of visual
deprivation differs from longer duration deprivations in that the experimental
eyes are initially shorter than normal and hyperopic at the end of the visual
deprivation period, but subsequently become longer than normal and myopic. Visual
deprivation myopia in the marmoset persists even after the deprivation is
discontinued and a visual signal is restored. In all experimental groups, the
development of the eye in response to the cessation of visual deprivation shows
no slowing of vitreous chamber enlargement; the axial enlargement relative to the
control eye is either maintained or increases and produces significantly greater 
myopia. These results suggest that the visual control of postnatal eye growth in 
the marmoset may be unidirectional in its response to visual experience and able 
only to increase the growth rate of the vitreous chamber, possibly after an
initial delay.

DOI: 10.1016/0042-6989(93)90039-y 
PMID: 8333155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

