

4102. Vision Res. 1993 Jul;33(10):1311-24.

Ocular development and visual deprivation myopia in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Troilo D(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853.

The normal postnatal ocular development of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and the effects of visual deprivation on eye growth and refractive state
are described. The marmoset normally undergoes a developmental process of
emmetropization from high hyperopia at birth. This emmetropization is easily
disrupted by visual deprivation produced by lid-suture. Myopia and axial
elongation of the vitreous chamber are induced by visual deprivations of 12, 5,
and 3 weeks duration. The development of axial myopia after 3 weeks of visual
deprivation differs from longer duration deprivations in that the experimental
eyes are initially shorter than normal and hyperopic at the end of the visual
deprivation period, but subsequently become longer than normal and myopic. Visual
deprivation myopia in the marmoset persists even after the deprivation is
discontinued and a visual signal is restored. In all experimental groups, the
development of the eye in response to the cessation of visual deprivation shows
no slowing of vitreous chamber enlargement; the axial enlargement relative to the
control eye is either maintained or increases and produces significantly greater 
myopia. These results suggest that the visual control of postnatal eye growth in 
the marmoset may be unidirectional in its response to visual experience and able 
only to increase the growth rate of the vitreous chamber, possibly after an
initial delay.

DOI: 10.1016/0042-6989(93)90039-y 
PMID: 8333155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4103. Vision Res. 1993 Jul;33(10):1301-10.

Visual optics and retinal cone topography in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Troilo D(1), Howland HC, Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small, diurnal, New World monkey
amenable to vision research. In this paper we describe the visual optics and cone
photoreceptor topography of the normal adult marmoset. Paraxial optical
ray-tracing shows that the marmoset eye is well represented as a scaled-down
version of the human eye. The density of foveal and perifoveal cone
photoreceptors in the marmoset is as high, and in peripheral retina higher, than 
those reported in humans and macaques. The foveal acuity predicted by the Nyquist
limits set by the cone mosaic (30 c/deg) is in agreement with behavioral measures
of visual acuity. Foveal depth of focus is remarkably small (< 0.2 D) for an eye 
of this size (axial length about 11 mm). Estimates of the amplitude of
accommodation using infrared photorefraction indicate that the marmoset is
capable of more than 20 D of accommodation.

DOI: 10.1016/0042-6989(93)90038-x 
PMID: 8333154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

