

4105. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1993 Jun 23;685:662-86.

Effects of small doses of dioxins on the immune system of marmosets and rats.

Neubert R(1), Stahlmann R, Korte M, van Loveren H, Vos JG, Golor G, Webb JR,
Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Childrens' Hospital (Kaiserin Auguste Victoria Haus), Freie UniversitÃ¤t
Berlin, Germany.

There is no doubt that TCDD is capable of inducing effects on a variety of
components and functions of the immune system in a variety of species. In fact,
such changes seem to belong to the most sensitive variables affected by TCDD.
Some of the biological effects, induced at rather high doses of TCDD exhibiting
general toxicity (> 3 micrograms TCDD/kg body wt), may be considered unspecific
or the result of the pronounced thymus involution. However, other effects (such
as that on lymphocyte subtype patterns in marmosets or a reduced resistance of
mice to influenza viruses) have been reported to occur at dose levels far from
those leading to thymic involution or general toxicity. It should be remembered
that the pathognomonic relevance for man of subtle modifications in the pattern
of lymphocyte surface receptors is largely unknown. Until now, such deviations
are considered rather as biological phenomena than indications or causes of
specific diseases. Nevertheless, such changes represent clear-cut biological
effects induced by TCDD. Since effects of TCDD on components and defined
functions of the immune system have been revealed in several species, it would be
surprising if humans were largely resistant to such effects, but reliable data in
humans with high exposures to defined dioxins verified by an appropriate
quantification of the exposure are scarce as of now. Data published so far have
not revealed pronounced alterations of such variables. However, no studies of
well-defined human populations with quantified body burdens have been performed
with modern methods (such as flow cytometry) analyzing a wide variety of surface 
receptors. Performance of such studies is essential for a better and reliable
risk assessment, and the technology is available. Some of the effects observed
(such as the changes in the pattern of lymphocyte subpopulations) must certainly 
be considered as biological effects induced by TCDD, and the situation is similar
to the induction of hepatic monooxygenases, which are also observable in this
dose range. However, the relevance of such changes with respect to adverse health
effects in humans is presently difficult to judge in the absence of clear-cut
functional deficits demonstrated so far either in vivo or in vitro.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb35931.x 
PMID: 8363273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4106. Circulation. 1993 Jun;87(6):1979-89.

Specific IK1 blockade: a new antiarrhythmic mechanism? Effect of RP58866 on
ventricular arrhythmias in rat, rabbit, and primate.

Rees SA(1), Curtis MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, King's College, University of London, U.K.

BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of blockade of the inwardly rectifying K+ current
(IK1) in prevention of arrhythmias is unknown. We have examined the
antiarrhythmic potential of a new selective IK1 blocker, RP58866, in rat, rabbit,
and primate (marmoset) isolated hearts in the settings of acute ischemia and
reperfusion.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In concentration-response studies (n = 12 per group), the
drug reduced ischemia-induced ventricular fibrillation (VF) in rat from control
incidence of 100 to 50%, 17% (p < 0.05), and 0% (p < 0.05) at 1, 3, and 10
mumol/L, respectively. RP58866 produced significant bradycardia at the 3- and
10-mumol/L concentrations and significant QT interval widening at all three
concentrations (p < 0.05). When rat hearts (n = 12 per group) were paced (5 Hz)
via the left atrium to prevent bradycardia, the antiarrhythmic effects of
10-mumol/L RP58866 were unmodified (ischemia-induced VF incidence was reduced by 
drug from 83% in control hearts to 8%; p < 0.05). Similarly, pacing did not
prevent the drug's QT-widening activity at 90% repolarization (QT90 was 64 +/- 3 
msec in control hearts versus 128 +/- 17 msec in the presence of 10 mumol/L of
drug after 10 minutes of ischemia; p < 0.05). These values are similar to
equivalent values in unpaced hearts (65 +/- 3 msec in control hearts versus 159
+/- 15 msec with 10 mumol/L of drug; p < 0.05). In separate groups of rat hearts 
(n = 10 per group) subjected to 10 minutes of ischemia, reperfusion-induced VF
incidence was reduced from 90% in control hearts to 10% (p < 0.05), 0% (p <
0.05), and 0% (p < 0.05) by 1-, 3-, and 10-mumol/L RP58866. To examine whether
drug actions were species-specific, we performed further studies in rabbit and
primate using the middle concentration of RP58866 (3 mumol/L). Ischemia-induced
VF incidence was too low in these species to assess the effects of the drug.
However, RP58866 widened QT interval (p < 0.05), slowed heart rate (p < 0.05),
and reduced the incidence of reperfusion-induced VF from 67% to 8% (p < 0.05) in 
rabbit. Furthermore, in the more clinically relevant primate species (marmoset; n
= 9-12 per group), RP58866 (3 mumol/L) abolished ischemia-induced VT (36%
incidence in control hearts; p < 0.05) and significantly reduced the incidence of
ischemia-induced ventricular premature beats from 91% to 33% (p < 0.05). The drug
was also effective against reperfusion VF in primates (incidence reduced from 64%
in control hearts to 11%; p < 0.05). As in rat and rabbit, RP58866 significantly 
widened QT interval in primate and caused bradycardia before and during ischemia.
RP58866 had no significant influence on coronary flow in any species. Finally, in
further studies on rat, QT widening by RP58866 was found to persist relatively
unmodified in nonischemic hearts perfused with solution containing K+ elevated to
8 mmol/L to mimic the early ischemic milieu.
CONCLUSIONS: RP58866, a selective IK1 blocker, is a potent and efficacious new
antiarrhythmic drug in ischemia and reperfusion in rat, rabbit, and primate. When
tested in rat, pharmacological activity was undiminished by cardiac pacing or
elevation of extracellular K+.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.87.6.1979 
PMID: 8504513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

