

4111. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1993 Jun;22(3):178-84.

The behaviour of mandibular condylar cartilage in cell culture.

Girdler NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

This investigation aimed to identify the behaviour of primate mandibular condylar
cartilage cells in an in vitro model. Cells were harvested from the mandibular
condyles of 1-year-old marmosets and maintained in primary culture for up to 30
d. Cell proliferation, structure, and phenotype were assessed at regular
intervals by phase-contrast microscopy, cytologic staining, and
immunocytochemistry. Cell growth increased progressively, and cultures reached
confluence after 22 d. Cells were initially small and round but later became
enlarged and heterogeneous in shape. Polygonal and hypertrophic chondroblast-like
cells dominated the mature cultures. Glycosaminoglycan synthesis increased as
cultures aged. Type I collagen was produced by early cultures, whereas type II
collagen predominated in mature confluent monolayers. It is suggested that this
mixed population of cells underwent phenotypic changes in primary cell culture
that closely resemble the normal in vivo maturation process.

DOI: 10.1016/s0901-5027(05)80248-6 
PMID: 8340632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4112. Synapse. 1993 Jun;14(2):184-94.

Alterations in striatal and extrastriatal D-1 and D-2 dopamine receptors in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset: an autoradiographic study.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Smith LA, Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, United Kingdom.

In adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) treatment induced almost total
depletion of cells in the substantia nigra pars compacts (SNc) but partial cell
loss in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). There was severe depletion of
[3H]-mazindol binding to dopamine (DA) uptake sites in the caudate, putamen, and 
SNc. The loss of [3H]-mazindol binding in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and
olfactory tubercle (OT) was less marked. [3H]-mazindol binding in the body of
caudate nucleus showed a small but significant recovery with increasing
post-lesion survival times. The specific binding of [3H]-SCH 23390 to D-1 DA
receptor sites was increased after MPTP treatment in all subregions of both
caudate and putamen but was unaltered in the NAc and OT. Substantia nigra pars
reticulata (SNr), frontal cortex, and medial segment of globus pallidus (GPm) all
demonstrated moderate levels of [3H]-SCH 23390 binding in control animals, which 
were unaffected by MPTP treatment. Specific [3H]-spiperone binding to D-2 DA
receptor sites was not altered by MPTP treatment in the subregions of
caudate-putamen. Moderate levels of [3H]-spiperone binding were observed in
control animals in the NAc, OT, SNc, and the lateral segment of globus pallidus
(GP1). [3H]-spiperone binding in the SNc and OT was partially decreased in
MPTP-treated animals. The changes in specific [3H]-spiperone and [3H]-SCH 23390
binding induced by MPTP-treatment did not alter with post-lesion survival times. 
These results demonstrate that MPTP treatment causes greater dopaminergic
denervation of the caudate-putamen than in NAc/OT. This resulted in an increase
in postsynaptic D-1 DA receptor sites in the caudate-putamen but not in the
NAc/OT. Also, there appeared to be loss of presynaptic D-2 DA receptor sites in
the SNc and OT. In the caudate-putamen, the loss of presynaptic D-2 DA receptor
sites may have masked postsynaptic D-2 DA receptor upregulation.

DOI: 10.1002/syn.890140212 
PMID: 8332947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

