

4112. Synapse. 1993 Jun;14(2):184-94.

Alterations in striatal and extrastriatal D-1 and D-2 dopamine receptors in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset: an autoradiographic study.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Smith LA, Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, United Kingdom.

In adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), MPTP
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) treatment induced almost total
depletion of cells in the substantia nigra pars compacts (SNc) but partial cell
loss in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). There was severe depletion of
[3H]-mazindol binding to dopamine (DA) uptake sites in the caudate, putamen, and 
SNc. The loss of [3H]-mazindol binding in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and
olfactory tubercle (OT) was less marked. [3H]-mazindol binding in the body of
caudate nucleus showed a small but significant recovery with increasing
post-lesion survival times. The specific binding of [3H]-SCH 23390 to D-1 DA
receptor sites was increased after MPTP treatment in all subregions of both
caudate and putamen but was unaltered in the NAc and OT. Substantia nigra pars
reticulata (SNr), frontal cortex, and medial segment of globus pallidus (GPm) all
demonstrated moderate levels of [3H]-SCH 23390 binding in control animals, which 
were unaffected by MPTP treatment. Specific [3H]-spiperone binding to D-2 DA
receptor sites was not altered by MPTP treatment in the subregions of
caudate-putamen. Moderate levels of [3H]-spiperone binding were observed in
control animals in the NAc, OT, SNc, and the lateral segment of globus pallidus
(GP1). [3H]-spiperone binding in the SNc and OT was partially decreased in
MPTP-treated animals. The changes in specific [3H]-spiperone and [3H]-SCH 23390
binding induced by MPTP-treatment did not alter with post-lesion survival times. 
These results demonstrate that MPTP treatment causes greater dopaminergic
denervation of the caudate-putamen than in NAc/OT. This resulted in an increase
in postsynaptic D-1 DA receptor sites in the caudate-putamen but not in the
NAc/OT. Also, there appeared to be loss of presynaptic D-2 DA receptor sites in
the SNc and OT. In the caudate-putamen, the loss of presynaptic D-2 DA receptor
sites may have masked postsynaptic D-2 DA receptor upregulation.

DOI: 10.1002/syn.890140212 
PMID: 8332947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4113. Chronobiol Int. 1993 Jun;10(3):165-75.

Alteration of circadian period length does not influence the ovarian cycle length
in common marmosets, Callithrix j. jacchus (primates).

Härter L(1), Erkert HG.

Author information: 
(1)Zoologisches Institut/Tierphysiologie, Universität Tübingen, Germany.

To investigate the coupling between the circadian system and the regulation of
the ovarian cycle in nonhuman primates, the effect of Zeitgeber-induced
alterations of the circadian period (23 vs 26 h) on the ovarian cycle length was 
studied in the long-cycling polyestrous common marmoset, Callithrix j. jacchus.
For that purpose, six female marmosets were isolated for approximately 4 months
each under artificial lighting regimens of 23 h [light-dark (LD) 11.5:11.5] and
of 26 h (LD 13:13; 300:0.03 lx). Samples of "morning urine" were collected in
each circadian period and analyzed by radioimmunoassay for their estrone (E1) and
estradiol-17 beta (E2) concentrations. Clear ovarian cyclic variations of the
creatinine related urinary E1 and E2 concentrations were ascertained in each
individual, with the E2 concentrations being 5-10 times higher than the E1
concentrations. In a total of 48 recorded ovarian cycles, the cycle length varied
between 16 and 39 days and was 28.3 +/- 4.1 days on average. As measured in
circadian periods, the marmosets' ovarian cycle was significantly longer (p <
0.05) under entrainment to LD 11.5:11.5 than under entrainment to LD 13:13. When 
measured in objective days, however, no difference in cycle length was
demonstrated. Hence, in Callithrix, the mechanisms regulating the ovarian cycle
length do not seem to be closely coupled to the circadian system, but rather
corroborate the more classic hypothesis presuming that in polyestrous mammals
different (at most weakly coupled) timing mechanisms or oscillator systems are
responsible for the regulation of the circadian and the ovarian cycles.

DOI: 10.3109/07420529309073885 
PMID: 8319317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

