

4113. Chronobiol Int. 1993 Jun;10(3):165-75.

Alteration of circadian period length does not influence the ovarian cycle length
in common marmosets, Callithrix j. jacchus (primates).

Härter L(1), Erkert HG.

Author information: 
(1)Zoologisches Institut/Tierphysiologie, Universität Tübingen, Germany.

To investigate the coupling between the circadian system and the regulation of
the ovarian cycle in nonhuman primates, the effect of Zeitgeber-induced
alterations of the circadian period (23 vs 26 h) on the ovarian cycle length was 
studied in the long-cycling polyestrous common marmoset, Callithrix j. jacchus.
For that purpose, six female marmosets were isolated for approximately 4 months
each under artificial lighting regimens of 23 h [light-dark (LD) 11.5:11.5] and
of 26 h (LD 13:13; 300:0.03 lx). Samples of "morning urine" were collected in
each circadian period and analyzed by radioimmunoassay for their estrone (E1) and
estradiol-17 beta (E2) concentrations. Clear ovarian cyclic variations of the
creatinine related urinary E1 and E2 concentrations were ascertained in each
individual, with the E2 concentrations being 5-10 times higher than the E1
concentrations. In a total of 48 recorded ovarian cycles, the cycle length varied
between 16 and 39 days and was 28.3 +/- 4.1 days on average. As measured in
circadian periods, the marmosets' ovarian cycle was significantly longer (p <
0.05) under entrainment to LD 11.5:11.5 than under entrainment to LD 13:13. When 
measured in objective days, however, no difference in cycle length was
demonstrated. Hence, in Callithrix, the mechanisms regulating the ovarian cycle
length do not seem to be closely coupled to the circadian system, but rather
corroborate the more classic hypothesis presuming that in polyestrous mammals
different (at most weakly coupled) timing mechanisms or oscillator systems are
responsible for the regulation of the circadian and the ovarian cycles.

DOI: 10.3109/07420529309073885 
PMID: 8319317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4114. Comp Biochem Physiol Comp Physiol. 1993 Jun;105(2):287-92.

Urinary estradiol-17 beta excretion in common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus:
diurnal pattern and relationship between creatinine-related values and excreted
amount.

Bös A(1), Probst B, Erkert HG.

Author information: 
(1)Zoologisches Institut/Tierphysiologie, Universität Tübingen, Germany.
