

4115. Am J Physiol. 1993 May;264(5 Pt 2):H1509-16.

Measurement of blood pressure and heart rate by telemetry in conscious,
unrestrained marmosets.

Schnell CR(1), Wood JM.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Department, Ciba-Geigy, Basel, Switzerland.

A system is described for the continuous measurement of blood pressure, heart
rate, and motor activity by telemetry in conscious marmosets freely moving in
their home cages. Consistent diurnal variations in these parameters were observed
under standard conditions, although these parameters were sensitive to changes in
the environment. Blood pressure values were similar to those measured by
nontelemetric methods in conscious, restrained marmosets. However, heart rate was
lower, indicating that telemetry is less stressful. The suitability of this
system for assessing the effects of blood pressure-lowering drugs was evaluated. 
An acute or a prolonged treatment with a converting enzyme inhibitor of marmosets
maintained on a low-sodium diet induced a fall in blood pressure as previously
observed using nontelemetric methods. With telemetry, however, more accurate
information on the duration of response and the effects of the treatment on the
diurnal rhythms was obtained. These observations demonstrate the advantages of
telemetry for evaluating the hemodynamic effects of drug treatments under
physiological conditions.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.1993.264.5.H1509 
PMID: 8498565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4116. Biol Reprod. 1993 May;48(5):1113-9.

Follicular development and ovulation in the marmoset monkey as determined by
repeated laparoscopic examination.

Tardif SD(1), Lacker HM, Feuer M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville 37996.

This paper describes the course of follicular development in vivo in the marmoset
monkey, the only anthropoid primate with a relatively high (2-4) and variable
ovulation number. Results are presented in relation to predictions from a
mathematical model of control of follicle selection and ovulation number.
Repeated laparoscopic examinations during the follicular phase were conducted for
14 cycles. Ovulatory follicles were 1.0 mm (median) in diameter at Day 6 and
could be distinguished from nonovulatory follicles by Day 8, at which point they 
were 2.0 mm in diameter. Ovulations were not synchronous; the most common
observation 1-2 days after the estradiol peak was ovulation of one follicle but
not the other. Examination of the course of follicular development within a cycle
and the distribution of ovulation sites both supported predictions stemming from 
a mathematical model of follicle selection developed by Lacker et al. [Biol
Reprod 1987; 37:570-580]. Specific findings were the following: 1) Variations in 
patterns of follicle growth within a cycle resembled those generated by the
model; in 64% of cycles, the 2-3 ovulatory follicles grew at similar rates.
However, in 36% of cycles, ovulatory follicles displayed disparate rates of
growth. 2) An examination of the distribution of ovulation sites (right versus
left) revealed no significant difference from a binomial distribution, suggesting
the likelihood that interovarian (rather than intraovarian) factors control this 
distribution.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod48.5.1113 
PMID: 8481474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

