

4117. Br J Cancer. 1993 May;67(5):926-32.

Analysis of the tumorigenic potential of common marmoset lymphoblastoid cells
expressing a constitutively activated c-myc gene.

Hotchin NA(1), Wedderburn N, Roberts I, Thomas JA, Bungey JA, Naylor B, Crawford 
DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, London School of Hygiene and Tropical
Medicine, UK.

The respective roles of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and c-myc in the pathogenesis of
endemic Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) are unclear. In order to help resolve the
question whether constitutive expression of the c-myc gene in an EBV-immortalised
B cell is sufficient to induce a tumorigenic phenotype, B cells from a common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) were immortalised with EBV, transfected with a
constitutively activated c-myc gene and inoculated into the host animals. Despite
the cell line transfected with c-myc displaying enhanced growth characteristics, 
in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that this was not sufficient to
induce a tumorigenic phenotype. This supports our previous findings with
EBV-immortalised human B cells transfected with an activated c-myc gene (Hotchin 
et al., 1990).

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1993.172 
PMCID: PMC1968471
PMID: 8388232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4118. J Gen Virol. 1993 May;74 ( Pt 5):811-8.

Characterization of the antibody response to the latent infection terminal
proteins of Epstein-Barr virus in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

Frech B(1), Zimber-Strobl U, Yip TT, Lau WH, Mueller-Lantzsch N.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Virologie, Universit√§tskliniken des Saarlandes, Homburg/Saar,
Germany.

Human sera were tested for antibodies against the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent
infection terminal proteins (TPs). Anti-TP IgG and IgA antibodies were detected
by an indirect immunofluorescence assay of insect cells expressing a recombinant 
TP1. Out of 301 human sera of patients with EBV-related and EBV-unrelated
disorders, only sera from patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) (32/83;
38%) showed anti-TP antibodies. Studies on serial sera from German and Hong Kong 
NPC patients revealed a decline of anti-TP antibodies during tumour therapy, and 
none of these antibodies were identified in patients with early tumour stages or 
in remission. Comparative studies of TP1-specific polyclonal rabbit antisera and 
human TP-positive sera showed clear differences in the TP epitopes recognized by 
each. Human antisera contained antibodies only to native epitopes in exons 2 to 7
of TP1 whereas rabbit antisera reacted only with epitopes located in the first
exon and, additionally, exhibited EBV strain specificities.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-74-5-811 
PMID: 8388017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

