

4118. J Gen Virol. 1993 May;74 ( Pt 5):811-8.

Characterization of the antibody response to the latent infection terminal
proteins of Epstein-Barr virus in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

Frech B(1), Zimber-Strobl U, Yip TT, Lau WH, Mueller-Lantzsch N.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Virologie, UniversitÃ¤tskliniken des Saarlandes, Homburg/Saar,
Germany.

Human sera were tested for antibodies against the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent
infection terminal proteins (TPs). Anti-TP IgG and IgA antibodies were detected
by an indirect immunofluorescence assay of insect cells expressing a recombinant 
TP1. Out of 301 human sera of patients with EBV-related and EBV-unrelated
disorders, only sera from patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) (32/83;
38%) showed anti-TP antibodies. Studies on serial sera from German and Hong Kong 
NPC patients revealed a decline of anti-TP antibodies during tumour therapy, and 
none of these antibodies were identified in patients with early tumour stages or 
in remission. Comparative studies of TP1-specific polyclonal rabbit antisera and 
human TP-positive sera showed clear differences in the TP epitopes recognized by 
each. Human antisera contained antibodies only to native epitopes in exons 2 to 7
of TP1 whereas rabbit antisera reacted only with epitopes located in the first
exon and, additionally, exhibited EBV strain specificities.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-74-5-811 
PMID: 8388017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4119. Photochem Photobiol. 1993 May;57(5):838-41.

The uptake of porphyrin and zinc-metalloporphyrin by the primate prostate.

Pantelides ML(1), Moore JV, Forbes E, Truscott TG, Blacklock NJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Urology, University Hospital of South Manchester,
West Didsbury, U.K.

The relative distribution of sensitizer drugs in the prostate and its contiguous 
organs is of importance in the treatment of localized prostatic cancer with
photodynamic therapy. Using the primate model, whose prostate is both
morphologically and physiologically homologous with its human counterpart, the
distribution of hematoporphyrin derivative (HpD) amongst organs of urological
interest was determined. Hematoporphyrin derivative levels were comparatively low
in both caudal and cranial prostatic lobes (0.93-1.77 micrograms/g) and were
similar to those in rectum, urethra and the skin. The reticuloendothelial organs,
liver, spleen and also the kidney accumulated the highest quantities of porphyrin
(4.76-9.8 micrograms/g, liver > spleen > kidney). Despite a high avidity of
prostatic tissue for zinc, a zinc-metalloporphyrin (Zn-HpD) did not concentrate
selectively in the prostate. The results are of clinical value in view of the
homology between the primate and the human.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-1097.1993.tb09220.x 
PMID: 8337257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

