

4119. Photochem Photobiol. 1993 May;57(5):838-41.

The uptake of porphyrin and zinc-metalloporphyrin by the primate prostate.

Pantelides ML(1), Moore JV, Forbes E, Truscott TG, Blacklock NJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Urology, University Hospital of South Manchester,
West Didsbury, U.K.

The relative distribution of sensitizer drugs in the prostate and its contiguous 
organs is of importance in the treatment of localized prostatic cancer with
photodynamic therapy. Using the primate model, whose prostate is both
morphologically and physiologically homologous with its human counterpart, the
distribution of hematoporphyrin derivative (HpD) amongst organs of urological
interest was determined. Hematoporphyrin derivative levels were comparatively low
in both caudal and cranial prostatic lobes (0.93-1.77 micrograms/g) and were
similar to those in rectum, urethra and the skin. The reticuloendothelial organs,
liver, spleen and also the kidney accumulated the highest quantities of porphyrin
(4.76-9.8 micrograms/g, liver > spleen > kidney). Despite a high avidity of
prostatic tissue for zinc, a zinc-metalloporphyrin (Zn-HpD) did not concentrate
selectively in the prostate. The results are of clinical value in view of the
homology between the primate and the human.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-1097.1993.tb09220.x 
PMID: 8337257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4120. Neuropharmacology. 1993 May;32(5):473-7.

A selective MAOB inhibitor Ro19-6327 potentiates the effects of levodopa on
parkinsonism induced by MPTP in the common marmoset.

Nomoto M(1), Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

The effects of the selective and reversible MAOB inhibitor Ro19-6327 on
parkinsonism in common marmosets, induced by MPTP were studied. Combined
administration of Ro19-6327 with benserazide/levodopa potentiated the effects of 
levodopa to reverse akinesia. In a microdialysis study, the administration of
Ro19-6327 was found to minimize the increase in metabolites of dopamine (DA)
following injection of levodopa. These results suggest that Ro19-6327 suppresses 
the metabolism of DA, resulting in increased effects of levodopa on parkinsonism 
induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Thus, Ro19-6327
should be useful in the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-3908(93)90172-y 
PMID: 8321428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

