

4120. Neuropharmacology. 1993 May;32(5):473-7.

A selective MAOB inhibitor Ro19-6327 potentiates the effects of levodopa on
parkinsonism induced by MPTP in the common marmoset.

Nomoto M(1), Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Kagoshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

The effects of the selective and reversible MAOB inhibitor Ro19-6327 on
parkinsonism in common marmosets, induced by MPTP were studied. Combined
administration of Ro19-6327 with benserazide/levodopa potentiated the effects of 
levodopa to reverse akinesia. In a microdialysis study, the administration of
Ro19-6327 was found to minimize the increase in metabolites of dopamine (DA)
following injection of levodopa. These results suggest that Ro19-6327 suppresses 
the metabolism of DA, resulting in increased effects of levodopa on parkinsonism 
induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Thus, Ro19-6327
should be useful in the treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-3908(93)90172-y 
PMID: 8321428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4121. Zygote. 1993 May;1(2):93-101.

Cloning, sequencing and oocyte-specific expression of the marmoset sperm receptor
protein, ZP3.

Thillai-Koothan P(1), van Duin M, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

The zona pellucida surrounding the mammalian oocyte contains a major glycoprotein
species, ZP3, that serves as a cell- and species-specific receptor for
spermatozoa. In this study we have determined the primary amino acid structure of
marmoset ZP3 (marZP3) and examined the expression of marZP3 mRNA within the
ovary. The marZP3 gene possesses an open reading frame of 1272 nucleotides which 
is expressed specifically by the oocyte and encodes a polypeptide chain of 424
amino acids that exhibits 91% homology with the human ZP3 sequence. The disparity
between these molecules was confined to a short domain spanning residues 322-352;
otherwise the molecules were very similar, showing conservation of many
structural features including the N-linked glycosylation sites, location and
number of cysteine and proline residues and hydrophobicity profile. The results
of this study have important implications for the use of the marmoset monkey as
an animal model for the development of contraceptive vaccines targeting ZP3.

DOI: 10.1017/s0967199400001350 
PMID: 8081814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

