

4121. Zygote. 1993 May;1(2):93-101.

Cloning, sequencing and oocyte-specific expression of the marmoset sperm receptor
protein, ZP3.

Thillai-Koothan P(1), van Duin M, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

The zona pellucida surrounding the mammalian oocyte contains a major glycoprotein
species, ZP3, that serves as a cell- and species-specific receptor for
spermatozoa. In this study we have determined the primary amino acid structure of
marmoset ZP3 (marZP3) and examined the expression of marZP3 mRNA within the
ovary. The marZP3 gene possesses an open reading frame of 1272 nucleotides which 
is expressed specifically by the oocyte and encodes a polypeptide chain of 424
amino acids that exhibits 91% homology with the human ZP3 sequence. The disparity
between these molecules was confined to a short domain spanning residues 322-352;
otherwise the molecules were very similar, showing conservation of many
structural features including the N-linked glycosylation sites, location and
number of cysteine and proline residues and hydrophobicity profile. The results
of this study have important implications for the use of the marmoset monkey as
an animal model for the development of contraceptive vaccines targeting ZP3.

DOI: 10.1017/s0967199400001350 
PMID: 8081814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4122. Vet Rec. 1993 Apr 17;132(16):403-6.

Experimental transmission of BSE and scrapie to the common marmoset.

Baker HF(1), Ridley RM, Wells GA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex.

Two young male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were injected
intracerebrally and intraperitoneally with a crude brain homogenate prepared from
a cow with bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Two other marmosets were
similarly injected with brain homogenate from a sheep with natural scrapie. The
two animals injected with scrapie material developed neurological signs 38 and 42
months after injection and the two animals injected with BSE material developed
neurological signs after 46 and 47 months. Post mortem examination of the brains 
revealed spongiform encephalopathy especially in the basal nuclei and
diencephalon of all the animals and, in addition, involvement of the cerebral
cortex of the marmosets injected with scrapie material. The experiment extends
the host range of experimental BSE to include a primate species.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.132.16.403 
PMID: 8488658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

