

4122. Vet Rec. 1993 Apr 17;132(16):403-6.

Experimental transmission of BSE and scrapie to the common marmoset.

Baker HF(1), Ridley RM, Wells GA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex.

Two young male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were injected
intracerebrally and intraperitoneally with a crude brain homogenate prepared from
a cow with bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Two other marmosets were
similarly injected with brain homogenate from a sheep with natural scrapie. The
two animals injected with scrapie material developed neurological signs 38 and 42
months after injection and the two animals injected with BSE material developed
neurological signs after 46 and 47 months. Post mortem examination of the brains 
revealed spongiform encephalopathy especially in the basal nuclei and
diencephalon of all the animals and, in addition, involvement of the cerebral
cortex of the marmosets injected with scrapie material. The experiment extends
the host range of experimental BSE to include a primate species.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.132.16.403 
PMID: 8488658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4123. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1993 Apr;90(4):487-93.

Brief communication: gut morphology of Callithrix nigriceps and Saguinus labiatus
from western Brazilian Amazonia.

Ferrari SF(1), Lopes MA, Krause EA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Museu Palaense Emilio Goeldi, Bel√©m-PA, Brazil.

Quantitative data on the gut proportions of the recently-described black-headed
marmoset (Callithrix nigriceps) from western Brazilian Amazonian are presented.
Like other marmosets, C. nigriceps exhibits a relatively large caecum and colon
associated with adaptations for gummivory. The degree of gut specialisation
recorded is greater than that for any other platyrrhine for which quantitative
data are available. Gum was found in the stomach contents of all four individuals
examined, although the fruit/seeds of as many as seven different plant taxa were 
also encountered, in addition to insects of six different orders. Gut proportions
of two Saguinus labiatus from the same region were typical of the more
frugivorous tamarins, and stomach contents included only fruit and insects.
Relative gut proportions of both species were closely similar to those of
congeners from the same region.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330900408 
PMID: 8476005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

