

4123. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1993 Apr;90(4):487-93.

Brief communication: gut morphology of Callithrix nigriceps and Saguinus labiatus
from western Brazilian Amazonia.

Ferrari SF(1), Lopes MA, Krause EA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Museu Palaense Emilio Goeldi, Bel√©m-PA, Brazil.

Quantitative data on the gut proportions of the recently-described black-headed
marmoset (Callithrix nigriceps) from western Brazilian Amazonian are presented.
Like other marmosets, C. nigriceps exhibits a relatively large caecum and colon
associated with adaptations for gummivory. The degree of gut specialisation
recorded is greater than that for any other platyrrhine for which quantitative
data are available. Gum was found in the stomach contents of all four individuals
examined, although the fruit/seeds of as many as seven different plant taxa were 
also encountered, in addition to insects of six different orders. Gut proportions
of two Saguinus labiatus from the same region were typical of the more
frugivorous tamarins, and stomach contents included only fruit and insects.
Relative gut proportions of both species were closely similar to those of
congeners from the same region.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330900408 
PMID: 8476005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4124. J Infect Dis. 1993 Apr;167(4):946-50.

A common-source outbreak of callitrichid hepatitis in captive tamarins and
marmosets.

Montali RJ(1), Scanga CA, Pernikoff D, Wessner DR, Ward R, Holmes KV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC 20008.

Callitrichid hepatitis (CH) is a highly fatal, emerging arenavirus disease of
captive South American marmosets and tamarins (Callitrichidae), including the
endangered golden lion tamarin. A common-source outbreak of CH in golden lion
tamarins and pygmy marmosets at a US zoo resulted from a single feeding of the
primates with newborn mice in apparently infected with lymphocytic
choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). Isolates from livers of mice and primates were
related to isolates from previous CH outbreaks and to laboratory strains of LCMV 
by serology and nucleic acid hybridization, and 2 surviving animals developed
antibody to other LCMVCH isolates and to laboratory strains of LCMV. Thus, LCMV, 
an arenavirus prevalent in wild mice in the US, can cause sporadic fatal hepatic 
disease in primates. Exposure of humans to wild or laboratory mice or to
marmosets and tamarins that are infected with wild-type strains of LCMV poses the
danger of serious disease.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/167.4.946 
PMID: 8450260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

