

4124. J Infect Dis. 1993 Apr;167(4):946-50.

A common-source outbreak of callitrichid hepatitis in captive tamarins and
marmosets.

Montali RJ(1), Scanga CA, Pernikoff D, Wessner DR, Ward R, Holmes KV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, National Zoological Park, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, DC 20008.

Callitrichid hepatitis (CH) is a highly fatal, emerging arenavirus disease of
captive South American marmosets and tamarins (Callitrichidae), including the
endangered golden lion tamarin. A common-source outbreak of CH in golden lion
tamarins and pygmy marmosets at a US zoo resulted from a single feeding of the
primates with newborn mice in apparently infected with lymphocytic
choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). Isolates from livers of mice and primates were
related to isolates from previous CH outbreaks and to laboratory strains of LCMV 
by serology and nucleic acid hybridization, and 2 surviving animals developed
antibody to other LCMVCH isolates and to laboratory strains of LCMV. Thus, LCMV, 
an arenavirus prevalent in wild mice in the US, can cause sporadic fatal hepatic 
disease in primates. Exposure of humans to wild or laboratory mice or to
marmosets and tamarins that are infected with wild-type strains of LCMV poses the
danger of serious disease.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/167.4.946 
PMID: 8450260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4125. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Mar 30;234(1):91-9.

The effect of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, RS-42358-197, in animal models of
anxiety.

Costall B(1), Domeney AM, Kelly ME, Tomkins DM, Naylor RJ, Wong EH, Smith WL,
Whiting RL, Eglen RM.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, School of Pharmacology, University of
Bradford, West Yorkshire, UK.

The S-isomer of the novel 5-HT3 receptor antagonist RS-42358
((S)-N-(1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl)-2,4,5,6-tetrahydro-1-H-
benzo[de]isoquinolin-1-one, RS-42358-197) disinhibited behaviour in the mouse
suppressed by the aversive situation of the light/dark test box. RS-42358-197 was
effective at sub-ng/kg dose levels and the efficacy was maintained over a 100
million-fold dose range. In contrast, the R-isomer was ineffective at all doses
studied. The S-isomer also disinhibited a suppressed behaviour in social
interaction and elevated X-maze tests in the rat and reduced anxiety-related
behaviours in a marmoset human threat test. RS-42358-197 prevented the
exacerbation of the suppression of behaviour in the mouse light/dark test
following withdrawal from treatment with alcohol, nicotine, cocaine and diazepam.
Thus, the S-isomer of RS-42358 has a consistent non-sedating anxiolytic profile
in rodent and primate models. It is exceptionally potent and a maintained
efficacy at high doses distinguishes its actions from many other 5-HT3 receptor
antagonists.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90710-y 
PMID: 8097165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

