

4125. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Mar 30;234(1):91-9.

The effect of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, RS-42358-197, in animal models of
anxiety.

Costall B(1), Domeney AM, Kelly ME, Tomkins DM, Naylor RJ, Wong EH, Smith WL,
Whiting RL, Eglen RM.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, School of Pharmacology, University of
Bradford, West Yorkshire, UK.

The S-isomer of the novel 5-HT3 receptor antagonist RS-42358
((S)-N-(1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl)-2,4,5,6-tetrahydro-1-H-
benzo[de]isoquinolin-1-one, RS-42358-197) disinhibited behaviour in the mouse
suppressed by the aversive situation of the light/dark test box. RS-42358-197 was
effective at sub-ng/kg dose levels and the efficacy was maintained over a 100
million-fold dose range. In contrast, the R-isomer was ineffective at all doses
studied. The S-isomer also disinhibited a suppressed behaviour in social
interaction and elevated X-maze tests in the rat and reduced anxiety-related
behaviours in a marmoset human threat test. RS-42358-197 prevented the
exacerbation of the suppression of behaviour in the mouse light/dark test
following withdrawal from treatment with alcohol, nicotine, cocaine and diazepam.
Thus, the S-isomer of RS-42358 has a consistent non-sedating anxiolytic profile
in rodent and primate models. It is exceptionally potent and a maintained
efficacy at high doses distinguishes its actions from many other 5-HT3 receptor
antagonists.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90710-y 
PMID: 8097165  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4126. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Mar 2;232(2-3):223-6.

Antidiuretic activity and release of factor VIII by vasopressin analogues.

Vilhardt H(1), Barth T, Melin P, Aurell CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physiology, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Vasopressin and in particular its structural analogue dDAVP
(1-deamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin) can increase plasma concentrations of Factor
VIII and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) in some species of animals and in
humans. For this reason dDAVP is used therapeutically in the treatment of
bleeding episodes in patients suffering from haemophilia A and Von Willebrand's
disease. However, the high antidiuretic activity of dDAVP constitutes and
unwanted effect in this context. In the present study, a large number of
analogues of vasopressin were designed, synthesized and tested in monkeys with
the aim of producing compounds in which the Factor VIII-releasing activity was
selectively isolated from the vasopressor and antidiuretic actions of the
peptide. The results indicate that it is possible to separate these biological
activities; however, none of the analogues tested so far possessed Factor VIII
potencies comparable to that of dDAVP.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90777-f 
PMID: 8467859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

