

4126. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Mar 2;232(2-3):223-6.

Antidiuretic activity and release of factor VIII by vasopressin analogues.

Vilhardt H(1), Barth T, Melin P, Aurell CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physiology, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Vasopressin and in particular its structural analogue dDAVP
(1-deamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin) can increase plasma concentrations of Factor
VIII and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) in some species of animals and in
humans. For this reason dDAVP is used therapeutically in the treatment of
bleeding episodes in patients suffering from haemophilia A and Von Willebrand's
disease. However, the high antidiuretic activity of dDAVP constitutes and
unwanted effect in this context. In the present study, a large number of
analogues of vasopressin were designed, synthesized and tested in monkeys with
the aim of producing compounds in which the Factor VIII-releasing activity was
selectively isolated from the vasopressor and antidiuretic actions of the
peptide. The results indicate that it is possible to separate these biological
activities; however, none of the analogues tested so far possessed Factor VIII
potencies comparable to that of dDAVP.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90777-f 
PMID: 8467859  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4127. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Mar;97(2):481-6.

In vitro fertilization and embryo development in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Wilton LJ(1), Marshall VS, Piercy EC, Moore HD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, London, UK.

Oocytes aspirated from preovulatory (i.e. > or = 2 mm) follicles of marmoset
monkeys were graded for maturity according to the degree of cumulus expansion,
grade I being most mature and grade IV least mature. After preincubation for 2-5,
9-11 or 21-29 h, 82% of oocytes could be fertilized using epididymal spermatozoa 
and only 2.3% were polyspermic. Fertilization rate was lowest (60%) in grade IV
oocytes and all oocytes preincubated for 2-5 h (53%). Fertilization rate
increased to 92% in oocytes preincubated for 21-29 h. Embryos developed in vitro 
to a mean of eight cells. Embryo development was unaffected by oocyte maturity
but correlated with preincubation time. Oocytes preincubated for 2-5 h developed 
into embryos with significantly fewer cells than those preincubated for 9-11 or
21-29 h (P < 0.001). Fifty-six per cent of embryos showed delayed cleavage and
these had fewer cells than non-delayed embryos (P < 0.001). When oocytes were
preincubated for 2-5 h, development of all resulting embryos was delayed.
However, only 17 and 58% of embryos developing from oocytes preincubated for 9-11
and 21-29 h, respectively, were delayed and this was independent of oocyte
maturity.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970481 
PMID: 8501719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

