

4127. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Mar;97(2):481-6.

In vitro fertilization and embryo development in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Wilton LJ(1), Marshall VS, Piercy EC, Moore HD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, London, UK.

Oocytes aspirated from preovulatory (i.e. > or = 2 mm) follicles of marmoset
monkeys were graded for maturity according to the degree of cumulus expansion,
grade I being most mature and grade IV least mature. After preincubation for 2-5,
9-11 or 21-29 h, 82% of oocytes could be fertilized using epididymal spermatozoa 
and only 2.3% were polyspermic. Fertilization rate was lowest (60%) in grade IV
oocytes and all oocytes preincubated for 2-5 h (53%). Fertilization rate
increased to 92% in oocytes preincubated for 21-29 h. Embryos developed in vitro 
to a mean of eight cells. Embryo development was unaffected by oocyte maturity
but correlated with preincubation time. Oocytes preincubated for 2-5 h developed 
into embryos with significantly fewer cells than those preincubated for 9-11 or
21-29 h (P < 0.001). Fifty-six per cent of embryos showed delayed cleavage and
these had fewer cells than non-delayed embryos (P < 0.001). When oocytes were
preincubated for 2-5 h, development of all resulting embryos was delayed.
However, only 17 and 58% of embryos developing from oocytes preincubated for 9-11
and 21-29 h, respectively, were delayed and this was independent of oocyte
maturity.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970481 
PMID: 8501719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4128. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Mar;97(2):321-7.

Requirement of inner cell mass for efficient chorionic gonadotrophin secretion by
blastocysts of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Summers PM(1), Taylor CT, Miller MW.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
UK.

The role of the inner cell mass in the induction of chorionic gonadotrophin
synthesis and secretion by the trophoblast of the peri-implantation primate
blastocyst was studied in common marmoset monkeys. An in vitro system for the
culture of blastocysts commencing with blastocysts collected 8 days after
conception was developed. Chorionic gonadotrophin measured in the spent culture
fluid was first detected in most blastocysts after 3 or 4 days (day 11 or 12) of 
culture at a time equivalent to implantation in vitro. Initial secretion of
chorionic gonadotrophin coincided with development of parietal endoderm and
histological appearance of syncytiotrophoblast in the polar trophoblast. Little
chorionic gonadotrophin was secreted by blastocysts with a poorly developed, or
absent, inner cell mass. Mural trophoblast removed from blastocysts after 2 days 
of culture (day 10) grew in vitro as a unilaminar vesicle but failed to secrete
significant amounts of chorionic gonadotrophin. However, mural trophoblast from
older blastocysts (days 13 and 14) after chorionic gonadotrophin secretion had
commenced continued to secrete chorionic gonadotrophin, with trophoblast from day
14 blastocysts secreting significantly more than that from day 13. It was
concluded from these studies that while mural trophoblast from marmoset
blastocysts will proliferate in vitro in the absence of an inner cell mass,
efficient induction of chorionic gonadotrophin secretion requires the presence of
the inner cell mass or its derivatives. Once chorionic gonadotrophin secretion
has commenced, secretion will continue in the absence of the inner cell mass.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970321 
PMID: 8501702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

