

4129. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1993 Mar;347(3):306-12.

Anorectic effect and brain concentrations of D-fenfluramine in the marmoset:
relationship to the in vivo and in vitro effects on serotonergic mechanisms.

Caccia S(1), Anelli M, Fracasso C, Frittoli E, Giorcelli P, Gobbi M, Taddei C,
Garattini S, Mennini T.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milan, Italy.

The present study investigated the anorectic activity of d-fenfluramine (d-F) and
the relationship with brain levels of unchanged drug and its metabolite
d-norfenfluramine (d-NF) in marmosets, relating them to neurochemical effects on 
the serotoninergic system. d-F and d-NF were equally active in reducing food
intake (ED50 about 3 mg/kg, p.o.). However, the brain concentrations of the
metabolite required to reduce food intake after synthetic d-NF were more than
twice those after d-F, indicating that d-NF contributes to but does not
completely explain the anorectic effect of d-F. At this dose d-F did not
appreciably modify the serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic (5-HIAA)
contents of the brain regions examined, except for a slight enhancement of 5-HIAA
in hippocampus. In vitro in brain cortical synaptosomes d-F inhibited [3H]5-HT
uptake more potently than d-NF, as in other species. d-F and d-NF showed similar 
potency in stimulating [3H]5-HT release, in a Ca++ dependent manner. The tritium 
released by d-F and d-NF appeared to be mainly unmetabolized [3H]5-HT. Like in
other species the marmoset too has saturable and specific [3H]d-F binding sites, 
for which d-NF has lower affinity. d-F and d-NF have low affinities for 5-HT
receptor subtypes, except that d-NF has appreciable affinity for 5-HT1C and
5-HT1D receptors. Unlike in rodents but similarly to primates in the striatum the
pharmacology of 5-HT receptors seems to correspond to the 5-HT1D
subtype.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00167450 
PMID: 8479546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4130. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 1993 Mar;44(4-6):435-9.

Local regulation of primate granulosa cell aromatase activity.

Hillier SG(1), Mir√≥ F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

Granulosa cells produce inhibin and activin, proteins implicated in the local
regulation of preovulatory follicular development. To assess interactions among
FSH, LH, inhibin and activin on primate granulosa cell aromatase activity, we
studied primary granulosa cell cultures from the ovaries of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a monkey with an ovarian cycle similar in length to the
human cycle. The distinctive action of activin was augmentation of
gonadotropin-responsive aromatase activity throughout antral follicular
development. FSH-stimulated aromatase activity in granulosa cells from immature
follicles was augmented many fold by picomolar amounts of activin. In cell
cultures from preovulatory follicles, the presence of activin stimulated basal
aromatase activity in the absence of gonadotropin, as well as augmenting the
action of LH. Thus, locally produced activin has the potential to modulate
aromatase activity in developing ovarian follicles. By contrast, inhibin or
inhibin alpha-subunit purified from bovine follicular fluid had minimal effects
on aromatase activity. The only significant effect was slight suppression of
FSH-inducible aromatase activity in granulosa cells from immature follicles at an
inhibin concentration of 100 ng/ml. The finding that inhibin has a negligible
effect on aromatase activity in granulosa cells from mature follicles suggests
that it is unlikely to exert a physiologically significant influence on aromatase
activity in vivo. However, evidence from other studies suggests that inhibin
might affect aromatization indirectly through acting locally to modulate thecal
androgen (aromatase substate) production. Therefore, both inhibin and activin
have the potential to contribute at different levels to paracrine and autocrine
regulation of follicular oestrogen synthesis.

DOI: 10.1016/0960-0760(93)90247-t 
PMID: 8476757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

