

4131. J Clin Microbiol. 1993 Mar;31(3):695-7.

Comparison of different methods and cell lines for isolating measles virus.

Forthal DN(1), Blanding J, Aarnaes S, Peterson EM, de la Maza LM, Tilles JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, Irvine College of Medicine, 
Orange 92668.

Infectivity titers were determined for seven strains of measles virus by using
various methods and cell lines. The use of B95-8 cells in a shell vial assay
resulted in the highest infectivity titers. Our data suggest that B95-8 is the
cell line of choice for the isolation of measles virus.

DOI: 10.1128/jcm.31.3.695-697.1993 
PMCID: PMC262845
PMID: 8458965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4132. J Comp Psychol. 1993 Mar;107(1):99-115.

Effects of sex steroids on maternal motivation in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): development and application of an operant system with maternal
reinforcement.

Pryce CR(1), DÃ¶beli M, Martin RD.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropology Institute and Museum, University of Zurich, Switzerland.

We developed an operant paradigm for measuring effects of reproductive steroids
on maternal motivation in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Conditioned
response regulated females' exposure to maternal reinforcement. Nulliparous
females (n = 15) with experience with infants in social groups were subjects. The
paradigm was validated by examining (a) effects of reinforcing stimuli on
affective behavior in a nonoperant paradigm, (b) responsiveness of operant
performance to changes in reinforcing stimuli and reinforcement schedule, (c)
changes in operant responding due to omission of reinforcement, and (d) relation 
between operant responding and species-typical maternal behavior. In pregnant
females, (n = 4), frequency of bar pressing and estradiol:progesterone ratio were
maximal just before birth. Nonpregnant females (n = 3) treated with progesterone 
and estradiol to mimic late-pregnancy steroid profiles showed increased operant
maternal behavior.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.107.1.99 
PMID: 8444024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

