

4132. J Comp Psychol. 1993 Mar;107(1):99-115.

Effects of sex steroids on maternal motivation in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): development and application of an operant system with maternal
reinforcement.

Pryce CR(1), DÃ¶beli M, Martin RD.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropology Institute and Museum, University of Zurich, Switzerland.

We developed an operant paradigm for measuring effects of reproductive steroids
on maternal motivation in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Conditioned
response regulated females' exposure to maternal reinforcement. Nulliparous
females (n = 15) with experience with infants in social groups were subjects. The
paradigm was validated by examining (a) effects of reinforcing stimuli on
affective behavior in a nonoperant paradigm, (b) responsiveness of operant
performance to changes in reinforcing stimuli and reinforcement schedule, (c)
changes in operant responding due to omission of reinforcement, and (d) relation 
between operant responding and species-typical maternal behavior. In pregnant
females, (n = 4), frequency of bar pressing and estradiol:progesterone ratio were
maximal just before birth. Nonpregnant females (n = 3) treated with progesterone 
and estradiol to mimic late-pregnancy steroid profiles showed increased operant
maternal behavior.

DOI: 10.1037/0735-7036.107.1.99 
PMID: 8444024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4133. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Mar;97(2):425-31.

Roles of cyclic AMP and inositol phosphates in the luteolytic action of
cloprostenol, a prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue, in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Michael AE(1), Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
UK.

The luteolytic response to a prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue, cloprostenol, was
investigated in vivo and in vitro at defined stages of the luteal phase. In vivo 
administration of cloprostenol to female marmoset monkeys on day 3 after
ovulation had no effect on plasma progesterone concentrations, whereas
administration on day 14 after ovulation reduced plasma progesterone to
preovulatory concentrations within 4 h. To identify the cellular basis for this
luteolytic action, marmoset luteal tissue obtained on days 3, 6 and 14 after
ovulation was incubated in vitro and progesterone production, cAMP accumulation
and phosphoinositide (PI) turnover measured in response to cloprostenol, human
chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) with or without cloprostenol, or dibutyryl-cAMP
with or without cloprostenol. Progesterone production was stimulated by both hCG 
and dbcAMP at all stages of the luteal phase. Although neither hCG nor dbcAMP had
any significant effects on PI turnover, hCG also increased cAMP accumulation. In 
marmoset luteal tissue obtained on day 3 after ovulation, cloprostenol had no
significant effect on basal or hCG/dbcAMP-stimulated progesterone production but 
significantly stimulated PI turnover. In contrast, on days 6 and 14 after
ovulation, cloprostenol significantly inhibited hCG- and dbcAMP-stimulated
progesterone production and the cAMP response to hCG, but had no significant
effect on PI turnover. Since progesterone production by the marmoset corpus
luteum depends on the luteotrophic support of luteinizing hormone (LH), these
observations suggest that the luteolytic action of cloprostenol in vivo involves 
the inhibition of LH/hCG action at sites both prior and subsequent to cAMP
accumulation. However, such luteolytic effects do not appear to require the
generation of inositol phosphates by increased PI turnover.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970425 
PMID: 8388957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

