

4137. Eur J Orthod. 1993 Feb;15(1):33-44.

A T.E.M. stereological analysis of blood vessels and nerves in marmoset
periodontal ligament following endodontics and magnetic incisor extrusion.

Parlange LM(1), Sims MR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Adelaide, South Australia.

Maxillary incisor fracture is a common dental injury. It is frequently treated by
endodontic therapy, orthodontic extrusion, and a retention period. The aim of the
study was to mimic this regime and stereologically quantify the vascular and
neural reconstitution of the periodontal ligament (PDL). Ten marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) had the right maxillary incisor crown removed, root canal
treatment, and magnetic incisor root extrusion of 1.2 mm. After incisor retention
for 9 weeks, the animals were perfusion fixed for electron microscopy. The
incisor PDL was sectioned at 250 micron intervals from the cervical to apical
region and recorded for stereological evaluation. Further evaluations were
conducted with a two-way analysis of covariance using program 3V of the BMDP-81
statistical software package. The total luminal PDL vascular volume was
statistically unchanged. An increased occurred in the mean number of venous
capillaries from 0.07 +/- 0.3 to 0.17 +/- 0.3 per 560 microns 2 of PDL (P <
0.05). Vessel wall and luminal volume of post-capillary-sized venules decreased
from 1.64 to 1.03 per cent, and 5.32 to 3.04 per cent (P < 0.05), respectively.
Mean luminal and abluminal diameters for post-capillary-sized venules were
reduced (P < 0.05). Myelinated and unmyelinated axons showed no significant
change in volume (Vv), length (Lv), or surface (Sv) densities. Axon number/unit, 
PDL area, and mean diameters demonstrated no statistical differences. Since the
PDL demonstrated almost complete morphological re-establishment of the
microvascular and axon systems, it is considered that this clinical treatment is 
a justifiable rationale.

DOI: 10.1093/ejo/15.1.33 
PMID: 8436195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4138. Mol Pharmacol. 1993 Feb;43(2):183-90.

Purification from liver microsomes from untreated cynomolgus monkeys of
cytochrome P450 closely related to human cytochrome P450 2B6.

Ohmori S(1), Shirakawa C, Motohashi K, Yoshida H, Abe H, Nakamura T, Horie T,
Kitagawa H, Asaoka K, Rikihisa T, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chiba University, Japan.

A cytochrome P450 (P450) (referred to as P450CMLa) was purified and characterized
from hepatic microsomes from untreated cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca irus). The
final preparation was electrophoretically homogeneous and its estimated minimum
molecular mass was 49.5 kDa. The amino-terminal amino acid sequence of the
protein (first 34 residues) closely resembled that of the protein encoded by the 
2B6 cDNA from humans (94%). This protein was cross-reactive with antibodies
raised against P450 2B1 (P450 b), P450 2B11 (P450 PBD-2), and P450GP-1, which
were purified from hepatic microsomes from phenobarbital-pretreated rats, beagle 
dogs, and guinea pigs, respectively. Also, the antibody raised against P450CMLa
was able to cross-react with P450 2B1, P450 2B11, and P450GP-1. P450CMLa was
capable of catalyzing benzphetamine N-demethylation and testosterone 16
beta-hydroxylation in a reconstituted system. Anti-P450CMLa antibody inhibited
the activity of testosterone 16 beta-hydroxylase but not the activities of
testosterone 2 beta- and 6 beta-hydroxylases in liver microsomes from cynomolgus 
monkeys. The content of P450CMLa, as estimated by immunoblot analysis, was 70
pmol/mg (about 5% of total P450). The protein immunoreactive with the
anti-P450CMLa antibody was also present in liver microsomes from Japanese
monkeys, baboons, common marmosets, and common squirrel monkeys. In liver
microsomes from common squirrel monkeys, the content of protein immunoreactive
with the anti-P450CMLa antibody and the activity of testosterone 16
beta-hydroxylase were effectively increased by pretreatment with phenobarbital.
The antibody against P450CMLa strongly inhibited the activity of testosterone 16 
beta-hydroxylase in liver microsomes not only from untreated cynomolgus monkeys
but also from phenobarbital- and pregnenolone 16 alpha-carbonitrile-pretreated
common squirrel monkeys. These results indicated that the P450CMLa purified here 
is very similar to the forms of P450 classified into the 2B subfamily, in its
amino-terminal amino acid sequence, catalytic activities, and immunochemical
properties.


PMID: 8429823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

