

4138. Mol Pharmacol. 1993 Feb;43(2):183-90.

Purification from liver microsomes from untreated cynomolgus monkeys of
cytochrome P450 closely related to human cytochrome P450 2B6.

Ohmori S(1), Shirakawa C, Motohashi K, Yoshida H, Abe H, Nakamura T, Horie T,
Kitagawa H, Asaoka K, Rikihisa T, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chiba University, Japan.

A cytochrome P450 (P450) (referred to as P450CMLa) was purified and characterized
from hepatic microsomes from untreated cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca irus). The
final preparation was electrophoretically homogeneous and its estimated minimum
molecular mass was 49.5 kDa. The amino-terminal amino acid sequence of the
protein (first 34 residues) closely resembled that of the protein encoded by the 
2B6 cDNA from humans (94%). This protein was cross-reactive with antibodies
raised against P450 2B1 (P450 b), P450 2B11 (P450 PBD-2), and P450GP-1, which
were purified from hepatic microsomes from phenobarbital-pretreated rats, beagle 
dogs, and guinea pigs, respectively. Also, the antibody raised against P450CMLa
was able to cross-react with P450 2B1, P450 2B11, and P450GP-1. P450CMLa was
capable of catalyzing benzphetamine N-demethylation and testosterone 16
beta-hydroxylation in a reconstituted system. Anti-P450CMLa antibody inhibited
the activity of testosterone 16 beta-hydroxylase but not the activities of
testosterone 2 beta- and 6 beta-hydroxylases in liver microsomes from cynomolgus 
monkeys. The content of P450CMLa, as estimated by immunoblot analysis, was 70
pmol/mg (about 5% of total P450). The protein immunoreactive with the
anti-P450CMLa antibody was also present in liver microsomes from Japanese
monkeys, baboons, common marmosets, and common squirrel monkeys. In liver
microsomes from common squirrel monkeys, the content of protein immunoreactive
with the anti-P450CMLa antibody and the activity of testosterone 16
beta-hydroxylase were effectively increased by pretreatment with phenobarbital.
The antibody against P450CMLa strongly inhibited the activity of testosterone 16 
beta-hydroxylase in liver microsomes not only from untreated cynomolgus monkeys
but also from phenobarbital- and pregnenolone 16 alpha-carbonitrile-pretreated
common squirrel monkeys. These results indicated that the P450CMLa purified here 
is very similar to the forms of P450 classified into the 2B subfamily, in its
amino-terminal amino acid sequence, catalytic activities, and immunochemical
properties.


PMID: 8429823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4139. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 1993 Feb;45(1):7-13.

Histopathological and immunohistochemical studies of hepatitis A virus infection 
in marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Baptista ML(1), Marchevsky RS, Oliveira AV, Yoshida CF, Schatzmayr HG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology Oswaldo Cruz Institute, Funda√ßao Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.

Samples of serum, feces and liver tissue and organs of six cotton-eared marmosets
Callithrix jacchus infected intravenously with two different strains of hepatitis
A virus (HAV), were studied by conventional histologic techniques, by serological
techniques and by immunocytochemical methods, such as immunofluorescence (IF) and
peroxidase-antibody techniques. Hepatitis A antigen (HAAg) was detectable in
daily collected stools, in liver biopsy obtained sequentially, and in organs
collected at necropsy. Two marmosets also developed antibodies to HAV. By
contrast, serum transaminases were not altered and there were histological
hepatic lesions consistent with acute viral hepatitis in all inoculated animals. 
The data obtained, demonstrate that these primates are susceptible to human HAV
and may be a useful animal model for the study of infection by this virus.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-2993(11)80439-2 
PMID: 8385516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

