

4140. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Jan 12;230(2):177-85.

Age-related effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment of 
common marmosets.

Rose S(1), Nomoto M, Jackson EA, Gibb WR, Jaehnig P, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, UK.

The effect of treatment with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) 
on juvenile (6-8 months), young adult (2-4 years) and aged (8-10 years) common
marmosets were compared. Juvenile marmosets were more resistant to the actions of
MPTP and required a greater cumulative dose over a longer period to induce the
same degree of motor disability observed in older animals. Young adult and aged
marmosets showed an equivalent motor recovery in the 4-5 weeks following
cessation of MPTP treatment, but juvenile animals were less able to compensate
for the motor impairments. Losses of putamen [3H]dopamine uptake and caudate
nucleus dopamine content were equivalent in young adult and aged animals.
However, juvenile animals showed a more marked degree of dopamine depletion and
reduction in [3H]dopamine uptake. Histological analysis showed cell loss in the
substantia nigra to be most prominent in juvenile animals although it was evident
in all groups. No loss of cells in the locus coeruleus was apparent in any of the
groups studied, and no intraneuronal eosinophilic inclusions were seen. Greater
nigral cell loss and dopamine depletion were required in juvenile animals to
impair motor function. The degree of behavioural recovery was less in juvenile
animals than in young adult and aged marmosets. The extent of behavioural
recovery appeared linked to the severity of cell loss and was not reduced in old 
age.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90800-w 
PMID: 8422900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4141. Am J Primatol. 1993;31(1):67-75. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350310107.

The stability of the vocal signature in phee calls of the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus.

Jones BS(1), Harris DHR(1), Catchpole CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biology and Psychology, Royal Holloway, University of London,
Egham, Surrey, England.

Phee calls were recorded from five captive common marmosets on three occasions.
An initial recording session was followed by further sessions 1-12 days later,
and finally, 12 months after the initial sample. Sonograms from the first
recordings were measured using one duration and five frequency parameters, and
significant differences between individuals were found for all six parameters.
Discriminant function analysis was then applied to classify each call to a
particular individual, witn a resulting classification accuracy of 97.27%.
Analysis of the second and third recordings demonstrated accurate classification 
to the same caller using the measurements obtained from the initial sample. The
accuracy remained high despite intra-individual differences in acoustic structure
among the three recording periods. Such differences may well reflect proximate
changes in the underlying arousal state of the caller. Stability over time in the
vocal signature of the phee call supports the view that this vocalization may be 
important in signalling individual identity over long distances, in a habitat
where visual contact is limited. © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350310107 
PMID: 32070085 

