

4141. Am J Primatol. 1993;31(1):67-75. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350310107.

The stability of the vocal signature in phee calls of the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus.

Jones BS(1), Harris DHR(1), Catchpole CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biology and Psychology, Royal Holloway, University of London,
Egham, Surrey, England.

Phee calls were recorded from five captive common marmosets on three occasions.
An initial recording session was followed by further sessions 1-12 days later,
and finally, 12 months after the initial sample. Sonograms from the first
recordings were measured using one duration and five frequency parameters, and
significant differences between individuals were found for all six parameters.
Discriminant function analysis was then applied to classify each call to a
particular individual, witn a resulting classification accuracy of 97.27%.
Analysis of the second and third recordings demonstrated accurate classification 
to the same caller using the measurements obtained from the initial sample. The
accuracy remained high despite intra-individual differences in acoustic structure
among the three recording periods. Such differences may well reflect proximate
changes in the underlying arousal state of the caller. Stability over time in the
vocal signature of the phee call supports the view that this vocalization may be 
important in signalling individual identity over long distances, in a habitat
where visual contact is limited. © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350310107 
PMID: 32070085 


4142. Am J Primatol. 1993;31(1):1-10. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350310102.

Observations on effects of neonatal castration upon sexual and aggressive
behavior in the male common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, Scotland.

The behavior of eight adult male marmosets that were bilaterally castrated during
neonatal life (postnatal days 1-7), a single unilaterally castrated male, and
eight age-matched intact adult males was observed during encounter tests with
unfamiliar conspecifics. When neonatally castrated (NC) males encountered
ovariectomized, estradiol-treated females, both partners were intensely
aggressive and 66% of tests were terminated to avoid injuries. No mounts
occurred, and females exhibited little or no sexual initiating behavior
(proceptivity) towards NC males. By contrast, encounters between NC males and
intact adult males were characterized by low levels of aggression and no tests
were terminated. Intact males frequently mounted NC males. However, NC males
initiated only 4% of these mounts by intact males and they refused or terminated 
67% of mount attempts and mounts by intact males. The age-matched intact adult
males provided data which differed markedly from those obtained using NC males.
The intact males were highly aggressive during encounters with other intact
males, whereas they mounted and ejaculated when paired with females. The single
male which had been unilaterally castrated in infancy provided similar results to
the intact males. These experiments indicate that neonatal castration has
profound effects upon the development of sexual and aggressive behavior in male
marmosets. However, the stimulus qualities as well as the behavior of males are
altered by neonatal castration, so that unfamiliar conspecifics react towards
them as females during paired encounters. This finding complicates the
interpretation of effects of neonatal castration upon development of sexually
dimorphic behavioral patterns in male marmosets. Behavioral effects of castration
later in postnatal development romain to be determined. © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350310102 
PMID: 32070083 

