

4144. Am J Primatol. 1993;30(1):37-54. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350300104.

Context and gender-specific differences in the acoustic structure of common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) phee calls.

Norcross JL(1), Newman JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, NICHD, NIH, Poolesville, Maryland.

Captive adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) produce whistle-like "phee"
calls in two contexts; in the home cage environment, phee calls may function as
part of territorial marking behavior, and when animals are separated from social 
companions, phee calls may serve to reunite the group. Isolation phee calls tend 
to have more syllables than calls produced in the home cage by the same animals, 
and as a result, are longer in duration. The durations of isolation call
syllables are shorter than in home cage calls, and isolation calls have lower
start and end frequencies, higher peak frequencies, and increased frequency range
compared to phee calls produced by the same animals in their home cages. The
modifications made to the general structure of the phee call by isolated animals 
result in more information that may indicate context or location of an isolated
caller. When the vocalizations were analyzed by sex, between-sex differences in
call structure appeared consistently in both contexts. Males tended to exhibit
higher call frequencies and greater variability between syllables than females.
Published 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350300104 
PMID: 31941179 


4145. Am J Primatol. 1993;30(2):131-137. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350300205.

Infant survival and number of helpers in captive groups of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Rothe H(1), Koenig A(1), Darms K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anthropology, University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

In a colony of captive marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), the survival rate
of infants up to the age of 90 days after birth was analyzed with special
reference to the number of members in the group. The number of group members
(newborns excluded) varied between two (parents only) and 18 (parents plus
non-reproductive helpers); the number of adult group members varied between two
and 15. Five hundred ninety-two live-born, parent-reared infants of 263 litters
from 56 breeding females were included in the analysis. The greatest reproductive
success was observed in groups of ten to 11 members or four to five adults,
including the parents. However, the survival rate was fairly constant over group 
size at approximately 80% of an expected maximum value and no significant
correlation was observed between the total number of group members and infant
survival rate, or between the number of adult members and infant survival. While 
helpers may be necessary to increase the survival rate of infants in wild groups,
help of non-reproductive animals is not required in captivity, where energetic
demands are comparatively low and ecological constraints absent. Under laboratory
conditions the parents' skill in infant handling and the mother's physical
condition, i.e., the ability to provide enough milk for the infants, is likely to
be the most important factor for infant survival. © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350300205 
PMID: 31937021 

