

4145. Am J Primatol. 1993;30(2):131-137. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350300205.

Infant survival and number of helpers in captive groups of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Rothe H(1), Koenig A(1), Darms K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anthropology, University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

In a colony of captive marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), the survival rate
of infants up to the age of 90 days after birth was analyzed with special
reference to the number of members in the group. The number of group members
(newborns excluded) varied between two (parents only) and 18 (parents plus
non-reproductive helpers); the number of adult group members varied between two
and 15. Five hundred ninety-two live-born, parent-reared infants of 263 litters
from 56 breeding females were included in the analysis. The greatest reproductive
success was observed in groups of ten to 11 members or four to five adults,
including the parents. However, the survival rate was fairly constant over group 
size at approximately 80% of an expected maximum value and no significant
correlation was observed between the total number of group members and infant
survival rate, or between the number of adult members and infant survival. While 
helpers may be necessary to increase the survival rate of infants in wild groups,
help of non-reproductive animals is not required in captivity, where energetic
demands are comparatively low and ecological constraints absent. Under laboratory
conditions the parents' skill in infant handling and the mother's physical
condition, i.e., the ability to provide enough milk for the infants, is likely to
be the most important factor for infant survival. © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350300205 
PMID: 31937021 


4146. Am J Primatol. 1993;31(3):223-230. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350310307.

How to obtain individual urine samples from undisturbed marmoset families.

Anzenberger G(1), Gossweiler H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum anil Institute of Psychology, University 
of Zürich, Switzerland.

An apparatus and a method are described, which allow simultaneous urine
collection from all individual members of undisturbed marmoset families. The
monkeys have been trained, after leaving their sleeping box, to enter single
adjacent compartments where they are rewarded. There the monkeys micturate within
minutes and the clean urine runs directly into cryotubes. These simultaneously
collected urine samples open up the opportunity for investigation of the
relationship between endocrine function and behavioral dynamics within entire
marmoset groups. © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1993 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350310307 
PMID: 31937001 

