

4151. Arch Toxicol. 1993;67(1):1-17.

Thalidomide derivatives and the immune system. I. Changes in the pattern of
integrin receptors and other surface markers on T lymphocyte subpopulations of
marmoset blood.

Neubert R(1), Nogueira AC, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Kinderklinik (Kaiserin-Auguste-Victoria Haus, Freie Universit√§t Berlin,
Federal Republic of Germany.

Treatment of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with thalidomide (Thd) or its
derivative EM12 (which is also teratogenic, but more stable to hydrolysis)
resulted in the lack of reaction of adhesion surface receptors (integrins) on T
lymphocytes in venous blood. Lymphocyte subsets appeared, for example CD4+CD2-,
which are not found under normal conditions. (a) There was no clear effect of the
treatments on the total number of leukocytes or lymphocytes or on the total
number of CD4+ or CD8+ T lymphocytes. (b) A decrease in the percentage of the
cytotoxic T cells carrying the CDw29 marker (CD8+CD56+CDw29+) at a dose as low as
5 mg EM12/kg bw, and an increase in the percentage of suppressor cells carrying
the CDw29 marker (CD8+CD56-CDw29+) at 10 mg EM12/kg bw were found. Similar
effects were induced by Thd at somewhat higher doses, while supidimide (Sup) was 
less active even at the very high dose of 100 mg/kg bw. Especially at the lower
doses these effects occurred with a lag phase and persisted after discontinuation
of the dosing. Alterations induced in helper T cell subpopulations by Thd or EM12
were less impressive (no significant effect was observed with 5 mg EM12/kg bw).
Some changes were observed at higher dose levels in the CD4+CD45RA+CDw29+ cells
and the CD4+CD45RACDw29+ cells. (c) The most significant effect, reduction in the
reactivity of CD2+, was detectable subsequent to daily oral doses as low as 10 mg
Thd/kg or 1 mg EM12/kg bw. Peak plasma concentrations to be expected under these 
experimental conditions are less than 1 micrograms/ml. (d) The surface receptors 
found to be affected include among others: CD2 (LFA-2) and CD11a (LFA-1 alpha)
and CD18 (LFA-1 beta). Clearly, CD4+ cells were found to be more susceptible to
the loss of the integrin receptors than CD8+ cells. (e) The effect persisted for 
several weeks subsequent to the discontinuation of the dosing. (f) A rough
estimate of the relative potency to reduce the CD2 receptor in the marmoset
suggests EM12 to be five to ten times more potent than Thd. Sup, a Thd derivative
reported to exhibit no or a low teratogenic potency, was found to be at least
five times less potent than Thd. (g) The alterations of surface adhesion
receptors by the substances studied in this investigation were not confined to T 
lymphocytes. We also observed similar effects on B lymphocytes, monocytes, and
neutrophils, and many other cell types carrying such receptors might be
affected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02072029 
PMID: 8452474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4152. Comp Biochem Physiol B. 1993 Jan;104(1):169-71.

Differences in levels of erythrocyte glutathione and its metabolizing enzyme
activities among primates.

Kurata M(1), Suzuki M, Takeda K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Agriculture, Gifu University,
Japan.
