

4154. Carcinogenesis. 1993 Jan;14(1):1-6.

Distribution and metabolism of aflatoxin B1 in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Larsson P(1), Tj√§lve H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala.

Whole-body autoradiography of [3H]aflatoxin B1 (3H-AFB1) in marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus) showed a localization of bound labelling, in addition to the
liver, in the nasal olfactory and respiratory mucosa and the mucosa of the
nasopharyngeal duct, the pharynx, the larynx, the trachea and the oesophagus. In 
vitro microautoradiography of these tissues incubated with 3H-AFB1 showed a
localization of bound radioactivity in some cells in the epithelial linings of
the tissues. This binding was abolished when the incubations were performed in
the presence of the cytochrome P-450 inhibitor metyrapone. These results indicate
a cytochrome P-450-dependent bioactivation of AFB1 in some structures in the
epithelia of the nasal olfactory mucosa and the upper respiratory and alimentary 
pathways, in addition to the liver, in the marmoset monkey. Quantitation of the
in vitro formation of tissue-bound radioactivity from the 3H-AFB1 showed that the
nasal olfactory mucosa had the highest capacity to form bound metabolites among
the tissues examined. Liquid chromatography of lipid-soluble metabolites formed
by the nasal olfactory mucosa and the liver showed that aflatoxin M1 (AFM1) was
the major metabolite. AFM1 was also the major metabolite found in the liver in
vivo. In the pigmented tissues of the marmosets there was an accumulation of
nonmetabolized AFB1. This can be related to a melanin-affinity of AFB1. The
described tissues with a capacity to accumulate and metabolize AFB1 may be
potential targets for the carcinogenicity of this substance in the marmoset
monkey.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/14.1.1 
PMID: 8425254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4155. EXS. 1993;67:421-8.

Application of human minisatellite probes to the development of informative DNA
fingerprints and the isolation of locus-specific markers in animals.

Signer EN(1), Jeffreys AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, England.

In this study, the alpha-globin 3' HVR (Jarman et al., 1986), the RNA transcripts
of 33.15 and 33.6 (Carter et al., 1989), and the human locus-specific
minisatellites MS1, MS8, MS31, MS32 (Wong et al., 1987), MS51, MS228A (Armour et 
al., 1989) and g3 (Wong et al., 1986) were applied to domestic pigs, common
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) and Waldrapp ibises (Geronticus
eremita) and evaluated for their suitability firstly for isolating polymorphic
VNTR markers from genomic libraries (pigs), and secondly for producing
informative DNA fingerprints (pigs, marmosets and Waldrapp ibises).

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-0348-8583-6_42 
PMID: 8400710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

