

4156. Arch Virol. 1993;129(1-4):23-33.

The lytic transition of Epstein-Barr virus is imitated by recombinant B-cells.

Marschall M(1), Alliger P, Schwarzmann F, Bogedain C, Brand M, Reichelt B, Glaser
G, Wolf H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Medizinische Mikrobiologie und Hygiene, Universität Regensburg,
Federal Republic of Germany.

Lytic transition of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is initiated by distinct immediate
early regulators of the viral cycle, in synchronization to temporary, permissive 
conditions during host cell differentiation. We developed eukaryotic vectors
suitable to imitate the processes involved in lytic transition in cell culture
systems. Two stable B cell lines were established: R59Z activator cells were used
to induce lytic EBV expression in a constitutive manner by the production of the 
BZLF 1 trans-activator (Zta). R7-57 reporter cells, on the other hand, signaled
induced activity of the lytic origin of EBV replication (ori Lyt). Different
modes, like chemical induction, lytic superinfection with EBV and single gene
trans-activation converted the recombinant ori Lyt element in R7-57 reporter
cells. BZLF 1, transiently expressed in R7-57 reporter cells, was the only EBV
trans-activator found, sufficient in inducing the viral lytic cycle. Basing on
these experiments, trans-cellular activation of EBV was tested by cocultivation
of BZLF 1-expressing R59Z activator cells with the R7-57 reporter line. No lytic 
effect on the reporter cells could be measured, neither by cocultivation of
activator cells nor by coincubation of BZLF 1-containing cell lysates. Latency
breaking activity, however, was transferred from activator to reporter cells when
active, exogenous virus was added. The cell system described in these experiments
provides a tool for the detection of EBV reactivation and demonstrates the
potential of the lytic regulatory gene BZLF 1.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01316882 
PMID: 8385916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4157. Vaccine. 1993;11(3):383-7.

Preparation and immunogenicity of an inactivated hepatitis A vaccine.

Pellegrini V(1), Fineschi N, Matteucci G, Marsili I, Nencioni L, Puddu M,
Garelick H, Zuckerman AJ.

Author information: 
(1)IRIS, Siena, Italy.

A hepatitis A vaccine was prepared by formaldehyde inactivation of purified
hepatitis A virus (HAV) LSH/S strain grown on human diploid MRC-5 cells. The
vaccine was devoid of residual infectivity in vitro and failed to induce in
marmoset monkeys any pathological features or variations of haematological and
clinical chemistry values. Infectious HAV particles were not detected in faeces
and sera of the vaccinated primates by ELISA or after passages in MRC-5 cells.
The immunogenicity of the vaccine was evaluated by injecting guinea-pigs with
0.8, 0.2 or 0.05 micrograms of HAV antigen adsorbed onto 0.5 and 1 mg of Al (OH)3
or 0.3 mg of AlPO4. The antibody response, measured by a competitive
radioimmunoassay, was dose- and adjuvant-dependent. One injection of 0.2
micrograms of AlPO4-adsorbed HAV antigen induced seroconversion in 100% of
animals and high levels of specific and neutralizing serum antibodies. A further 
increase of antibody titres was observed after the second and third inoculations.
These results show that this vaccine formulation is safe and immunogenic in
animal models, and suggest that it should be evaluated further by human clinical 
studies.

DOI: 10.1016/0264-410x(93)90204-b 
PMID: 8383387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

