

4157. Vaccine. 1993;11(3):383-7.

Preparation and immunogenicity of an inactivated hepatitis A vaccine.

Pellegrini V(1), Fineschi N, Matteucci G, Marsili I, Nencioni L, Puddu M,
Garelick H, Zuckerman AJ.

Author information: 
(1)IRIS, Siena, Italy.

A hepatitis A vaccine was prepared by formaldehyde inactivation of purified
hepatitis A virus (HAV) LSH/S strain grown on human diploid MRC-5 cells. The
vaccine was devoid of residual infectivity in vitro and failed to induce in
marmoset monkeys any pathological features or variations of haematological and
clinical chemistry values. Infectious HAV particles were not detected in faeces
and sera of the vaccinated primates by ELISA or after passages in MRC-5 cells.
The immunogenicity of the vaccine was evaluated by injecting guinea-pigs with
0.8, 0.2 or 0.05 micrograms of HAV antigen adsorbed onto 0.5 and 1 mg of Al (OH)3
or 0.3 mg of AlPO4. The antibody response, measured by a competitive
radioimmunoassay, was dose- and adjuvant-dependent. One injection of 0.2
micrograms of AlPO4-adsorbed HAV antigen induced seroconversion in 100% of
animals and high levels of specific and neutralizing serum antibodies. A further 
increase of antibody titres was observed after the second and third inoculations.
These results show that this vaccine formulation is safe and immunogenic in
animal models, and suggest that it should be evaluated further by human clinical 
studies.

DOI: 10.1016/0264-410x(93)90204-b 
PMID: 8383387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4158. J Bone Miner Res. 1993 Jan;8(1):27-35.

Identification of a competitive binding component in vitamin D-resistant New
World primate cells with a low affinity but high capacity for
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.

Gacad MA(1), Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, University of
California-Los Angeles School of Medicine.

Monkeys in a number of different New World primate genera express a form of
compensated target organ resistance to steroid hormones, including
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3]. Characterization of these phenotypes has
previously relied upon the study of the 1,25-(OH)2D3-receptor (VDR) interaction
in cultured dermal fibroblasts from affected primates. In this report, we show
that three of these prototypic phenotypes can be faithfully reproduced in
previously established cultured cell lines: B95-8, EBV-transformed B lymphoblasts
from the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate with recognized
vitamin D resistance; OMK, renal tubular epithelial cells from the owl monkey
(Aotus trivergatus), a New World primate with an Old World primate-like VDR
phenotype; and MLA144, transformed B lymphoblasts from a gibbon (Hylobates), an
Old World primate that expresses the wild-type VDR phenotype. The rank order of
specific nuclear uptake and binding of [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 to the VDR was OMK > or =
MLA144 >> B95-8. Despite a 7- to 9-fold difference in cellular VDR content
according to ligand binding analyses, there was no discernible difference in the 
internalization constant Kin for specific cellular uptake of [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3
(0.12-0.26 nM) or in the quantity of VDR detected by immunoblot analysis. We now 
speculate that the discrepancy in VDR quantitation by binding and immunoblot
analysis in the B95-8 New World primate cell line results from the presence of an
intracellular, vitamin D metabolite binding moiety in this cell line that
competes with the VDR for metabolite binding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.5650080105 
PMID: 8381251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

