

4158. J Bone Miner Res. 1993 Jan;8(1):27-35.

Identification of a competitive binding component in vitamin D-resistant New
World primate cells with a low affinity but high capacity for
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.

Gacad MA(1), Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, University of
California-Los Angeles School of Medicine.

Monkeys in a number of different New World primate genera express a form of
compensated target organ resistance to steroid hormones, including
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3]. Characterization of these phenotypes has
previously relied upon the study of the 1,25-(OH)2D3-receptor (VDR) interaction
in cultured dermal fibroblasts from affected primates. In this report, we show
that three of these prototypic phenotypes can be faithfully reproduced in
previously established cultured cell lines: B95-8, EBV-transformed B lymphoblasts
from the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate with recognized
vitamin D resistance; OMK, renal tubular epithelial cells from the owl monkey
(Aotus trivergatus), a New World primate with an Old World primate-like VDR
phenotype; and MLA144, transformed B lymphoblasts from a gibbon (Hylobates), an
Old World primate that expresses the wild-type VDR phenotype. The rank order of
specific nuclear uptake and binding of [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 to the VDR was OMK > or =
MLA144 >> B95-8. Despite a 7- to 9-fold difference in cellular VDR content
according to ligand binding analyses, there was no discernible difference in the 
internalization constant Kin for specific cellular uptake of [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3
(0.12-0.26 nM) or in the quantity of VDR detected by immunoblot analysis. We now 
speculate that the discrepancy in VDR quantitation by binding and immunoblot
analysis in the B95-8 New World primate cell line results from the presence of an
intracellular, vitamin D metabolite binding moiety in this cell line that
competes with the VDR for metabolite binding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.5650080105 
PMID: 8381251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4159. J Med Virol. 1993 Jan;39(1):16-22.

Partial characterization of hepatitis A viruses from three intermediate passage
levels of a series resulting in adaptation to growth in cell culture and
attenuation of virulence.

Tedeschi V(1), Purcell RH, Emerson SU.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Viruses from passages 9/10, 21, and 32 of a serially passaged human isolate of
hepatitis A virus, strain HM-175, were partially sequenced and compared for their
abilities to grow in cell cultures and to cause disease in primates. Viruses from
all passages grew more efficiently in cell culture than did the wild-type
virulent virus from which they were derived, and all displayed some degree of
attenuation of virulence for primates. Within the 5' noncoding region and the
2B2C region of the HAV genome, passage 9/10 virus differed in sequence from
wild-type at a single and novel position in the 2C gene, while the sequence of
the passage 32 virus was almost identical to that of a fully attenuated passage
35 virus. Passage 21 viruses were found to consist of a mixture of viruses which 
included all but two of the 13 mutations present in the sequenced regions of the 
virus from passage 32.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890390105 
PMID: 8380839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

