

4159. J Med Virol. 1993 Jan;39(1):16-22.

Partial characterization of hepatitis A viruses from three intermediate passage
levels of a series resulting in adaptation to growth in cell culture and
attenuation of virulence.

Tedeschi V(1), Purcell RH, Emerson SU.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

Viruses from passages 9/10, 21, and 32 of a serially passaged human isolate of
hepatitis A virus, strain HM-175, were partially sequenced and compared for their
abilities to grow in cell cultures and to cause disease in primates. Viruses from
all passages grew more efficiently in cell culture than did the wild-type
virulent virus from which they were derived, and all displayed some degree of
attenuation of virulence for primates. Within the 5' noncoding region and the
2B2C region of the HAV genome, passage 9/10 virus differed in sequence from
wild-type at a single and novel position in the 2C gene, while the sequence of
the passage 32 virus was almost identical to that of a fully attenuated passage
35 virus. Passage 21 viruses were found to consist of a mixture of viruses which 
included all but two of the 13 mutations present in the sequenced regions of the 
virus from passage 32.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890390105 
PMID: 8380839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4160. Microbiol Immunol. 1993;37(3):233-7.

Variation in field isolates of measles virus during an 8-year period in Japan.

Sakata H(1), Kobune F, Sato TA, Tanabayashi K, Yamada A, Sugiura A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Measles Virus, National Institute of Health, Tokyo, Japan.

Field isolates of measles virus (MV) during an 8-year period in four areas of
Japan, i.e., Osaka, Nagoya, Tokyo and Akita, were classified into three types in 
regard to the electrophoretic mobility of the hemagglutinin (HA) proteins: S type
with small (78K) HA, M type with intermediate (80 K) HA and L type with large (82
K) HA. The type of field isolates was closely related with the geographical
location and the year of virus isolation. The S type strain was isolated only in 
an outbreak from 1983 to 1984, whereas the M and L type strains were isolated
between 1983 and 1990. The HA genes of the M and L type strains of MV were found 
to have a nucleotide substitution which introduces a new potential glycosylation 
site. In addition, the matrix proteins of all field strains isolated after 1977
showed slower electrophoretic mobility of 42 K than 39 K of the Edmonston and
Toyoshima strains. These results indicate that MV strains of different HA types
existed concomitantly and that major populations of MV currently circulating in
Japan are changing from those prevalent in 1983-1984.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.1993.tb03205.x 
PMID: 8321151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

