

416. J Vis Exp. 2019 Sep 29;(151). doi: 10.3791/60240.

Stereotaxic Surgery for Implantation of Microelectrode Arrays in the Common
Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Budoff SA(#)(1), Rodrigues Neto JF(#)(2), Arboés V(2), Nascimento MSL(2), Kunicki
CB(2), Araújo MFP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute; Neuroscience Program, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus.
(2)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute.
(3)Edmond and Lily Safra International Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont
Institute; Department of Physiological Sciences, Health Sciences Center, Federal 
University of Espírito Santo; mfparaujo@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are small non-human primates that are gaining
popularity in biomedical and preclinical research, including the neurosciences.
Phylogenetically, these animals are much closer to humans than rodents. They also
display complex behaviors, including a wide range of vocalizations and social
interactions. Here, an effective stereotaxic neurosurgical procedure for
implantation of recording electrode arrays in the common marmoset is described.
This protocol also details the pre- and postoperative steps of animal care that
are required to successfully perform such a surgery. Finally, this protocol shows
an example of local field potential and spike activity recordings in a freely
behaving marmoset 1 week after the surgical procedure. Overall, this method
provides an opportunity to study the brain function in awake and freely behaving 
marmosets. The same protocol can be readily used by researchers working with
other small primates. In addition, it can be easily modified to allow other
studies requiring implants, such as stimulating electrodes, microinjections,
implantation of optrodes or guide cannulas, or ablation of discrete tissue
regions.

DOI: 10.3791/60240 
PMID: 31609344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 10;9(1):14546. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-51199-5.

Establishment of a diabetes mellitus type 1 model in the common marmoset.

Yuan W(1), Fukuda S(2), Inoue T(3), Okochi H(2), Sasaki E(3), Shimoda M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pancreatic Islet Cell Transplantation, National Center for
Global Health and Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 162-8655, Japan.
(2)Department of Regenerative Medicine, National Center for Global Health and
Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 162-8655, Japan.
(3)Department of Marmoset Biology and Medicine, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, 3 Chome-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki-shi,
Kanagawa-ken, 210-0821, Japan.
(4)Department of Pancreatic Islet Cell Transplantation, National Center for
Global Health and Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 162-8655, Japan.
mshimoda@hosp.ncgm.go.jp.

Common marmosets have attracted considerable attention as a small standard
primate model in biomedical research. However, no marmoset diabetes model is
available. Here, we established a marmoset diabetes model via the combination of 
partial pancreatectomy and intravenous streptozotocin (STZ). A partial
pancreatectomy was performed in 11 common marmosets and multiple STZ doses were
intravenously administered. Diabetes was diagnosed upon sustained hyperglycaemia 
(nonfasting blood glucose level >200 mg/dl). Blood glucose and biochemistry were 
periodically assessed, in addition to glucose tolerance testing, continual blood 
glucose determination using a continuous glucose monitoring system, urine testing
and histological evaluation. In 8 of the 11 animals (73%), diabetes mellitus was 
induced. The diabetic marmosets also showed abnormal intravenous and oral glucose
tolerance test results. Blood glucose levels decreased in response to human
insulin administration. The hyperglycaemic state was irreversible and persisted
for more than 3 months, and the animals' condition was manageable via daily
insulin administration. Thus, diabetes can be successfully induced and maintained
in the common marmoset via partial pancreatectomy and STZ administration. This
protocol effectively generates a valuable animal model for studying disease
pathogenesis, risk factors and therapeutic interventions, including islet
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-51199-5 
PMCID: PMC6787219
PMID: 31601983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

