

4160. Microbiol Immunol. 1993;37(3):233-7.

Variation in field isolates of measles virus during an 8-year period in Japan.

Sakata H(1), Kobune F, Sato TA, Tanabayashi K, Yamada A, Sugiura A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Measles Virus, National Institute of Health, Tokyo, Japan.

Field isolates of measles virus (MV) during an 8-year period in four areas of
Japan, i.e., Osaka, Nagoya, Tokyo and Akita, were classified into three types in 
regard to the electrophoretic mobility of the hemagglutinin (HA) proteins: S type
with small (78K) HA, M type with intermediate (80 K) HA and L type with large (82
K) HA. The type of field isolates was closely related with the geographical
location and the year of virus isolation. The S type strain was isolated only in 
an outbreak from 1983 to 1984, whereas the M and L type strains were isolated
between 1983 and 1990. The HA genes of the M and L type strains of MV were found 
to have a nucleotide substitution which introduces a new potential glycosylation 
site. In addition, the matrix proteins of all field strains isolated after 1977
showed slower electrophoretic mobility of 42 K than 39 K of the Edmonston and
Toyoshima strains. These results indicate that MV strains of different HA types
existed concomitantly and that major populations of MV currently circulating in
Japan are changing from those prevalent in 1983-1984.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.1993.tb03205.x 
PMID: 8321151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4161. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo. 1993 Jan-Feb;35(1):107-10.

Antimicrobial resistance and plasmid detection in strains of the Bacteroides
fragilis group.

Avila-Campos MJ(1), de Carvalho MA, Magalhäes PP, Damasceno CA, Chartone-Souza E,
Cisalpino EO.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Microbiologia, Universidade de São Paulo, Brasil.

Resistant populations of the Bacteroides fragilis group bacteria (two reference
ones and two isolated from human and Callithrix penicillata marmoset) were
obtained by the gradient plate technique, to clindamycin, penicillin G,
metronidazole and mercuric chloride. All the four tested strains were originally 
susceptible to the four antimicrobial drugs at the breakpoint used in this study.
MICs determination for the four cultures gave constant values for each
antimicrobial, on the several steps by the gradient plate technique. The
intestinal human B. fragilis strains showed three DNA bands, that could be
representative of only two plasmids in the closed covalently circular (CCC) form 
with molecular weights of approximately 25 and 2.5 Md. The results do not permit 
an association between the presence of plasmid in the human strain with the
susceptibility to the studied drugs. The four strains were beta-lactamase
negative in the two methods used, and no particular chromosomal genetic
resistance marker was demonstrated. The resistance (MIC) observed, after contact 
with penicillin G and mercuric chloride, were two-fold in the four tested
strains.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-46651993000100016 
PMID: 8278739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

