

4162. Dev Biol Stand. 1993;80:157-70.

The research programme on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies in Britain
with special reference to bovine spongiform encephalopathy.

Bradley R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Veterinary Laboratory, Addlestone, Surrey, UK.

Research into bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) commenced immediately
following its discovery in November 1986. Formal epidemiological studies
commenced in June 1987 and were part of a large research programme set up mainly 
at the Central Veterinary Laboratory Weybridge and the Institute for Animal
Health, AFRC/MRC Neuropathogenesis Unit in Edinburgh. This programme also covered
the clinicopathology of BSE, transmission studies and molecular chemistry.
Research results have shown that BSE is a member of the group of diseases known
as the sub-acute spongiform encephalopathies caused by unconventional
transmissible agents and which includes scrapie of sheep, from which BSE was
probably derived, and Creutzfeldt Jakob disease (CJD) of man. The agent causing
BSE closely resembles strains of the scrapie agent but is not identical.
Spongiform encephalopathy has developed in sheep, goats, pigs, cattle, marmosets 
and mice but not hamsters following experimental inoculation of brain material
from confirmed clinical cases of BSE. BSE agent has been detected by mouse
bio-assay in brain from cows from several sources confirmed to have BSE.
Infectivity has not been detected in spleen, buffy coat, semen, muscles, placenta
and bone marrow (all following parenteral inoculation) nor in milk/mammary gland,
spleen, placenta and a variety of lymph nodes following substantial oral
exposure. This latter route successfully transmitted disease to mice with
brain/cerebrospinal fluid. The introduction of modified rendering systems, which 
did not employ hydrocarbon solvent extraction, were probably responsible for an
increase in exposure of cattle from 1981-1988 sufficient to cause the disease.
Experiments are in progress to investigate the effectiveness of different
rendering systems used in the European Community and of chemical and physical
de-activating procedures for destroying BSE and scrapie infectivity. A clear
genetic influence on disease susceptibility has been suggested but is not yet
proven. The Agricultural and Food Research Council have set up a large Biology of
Spongiform Encephalopathies Research Programme to address some of the more
fundamental unknowns of this group of diseases but it is too early to report
results. As with scrapie, no epidemiological relationship has been demonstrated
between BSE and the human diseases through the monitoring programme that has been
established by the Department of Health to detect such an occurrence. BSE
research results so far show that controls to protect animal and human health and
based initially on scrapie research findings, are sound.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)


PMID: 8270105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4163. Life Sci. 1993;53(26):1995-2006.

Chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the human immune system. 1.
Blood cell receptors in volunteers with moderately increased body burdens.

Neubert R(1), Maskow L, Webb J, Jacob-MÃ¼ller U, Nogueira AC, Delgado I, Helge H, 
Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center Rudolf Virchow, Free University Berlin, Germany.

Using monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and flow cytometry, we studied a variety of
surface receptors on lymphocyte subpopulations of workers with moderately
increased body burdens of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and of other
polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/PCDF), expressed here
as International-Toxicity Equivalencies (I-TE). The hypothesis to be tested was
whether or not humans exhibit a similar susceptibility to PCDDs/PCDFs with
respect to the surface receptors found previously to respond to small doses of
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in Callithrix jacchus. These are:
helper-inducer (memory) T cells (CD4+CD45R0+CD45RA-CD29highCD11a+), CD20+ B
cells, and cytotoxic T cells (CD8+CD56+/CD57+). Furthermore, 68 triple-labellings
with mAbs were performed on the cells of each volunteer to possibly generate
further hypotheses. It was evaluated whether any of the variables might be used
as a biomarker of effects for this class of compounds. There were two main goals:
(1) to evaluate whether workers with a moderately increased PCDD/PCDF-body burden
[25-140 ppt TCDD or 104-522 ppt I-TE in blood fat] exhibit changes in the surface
receptors of white blood cells, as observed in previous studies in non-human
primates, and (2) to clarify whether persons at the upper range [10-23 ppt TCDD
or 30-90 ppt I-TE in blood fat] of the body burden reference values of a not
particularly exposed population show detectable deviations in these immunological
variables, when compared with persons at the lower and medium range [1-3 ppt TCDD
or 9-29 ppt I-TE] of these body burden reference values. Regression analysis of
our data revealed slight trends for some of the biomarkers (e.g. CD45R0+). With
one exception, these were all increases. None of the alterations observed are of 
medical relevance. The slight increase in the percentage of CD4+CD45R0+ cells
remained significant even after covariant analysis taking age-related changes
into account. Altogether, the data do not provide any evidence to support an
assumption that moderately increased body burdens of PCDDs/PCDFs in adults induce
decreases in the cellular components of the human immune system. Adult humans
certainly are less susceptible to this action of PCDDs/PCDFs than adolescent
Callithrix jacchus.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(93)90021-t 
PMID: 8255162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

