

4163. Life Sci. 1993;53(26):1995-2006.

Chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the human immune system. 1.
Blood cell receptors in volunteers with moderately increased body burdens.

Neubert R(1), Maskow L, Webb J, Jacob-Müller U, Nogueira AC, Delgado I, Helge H, 
Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center Rudolf Virchow, Free University Berlin, Germany.

Using monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and flow cytometry, we studied a variety of
surface receptors on lymphocyte subpopulations of workers with moderately
increased body burdens of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and of other
polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/PCDF), expressed here
as International-Toxicity Equivalencies (I-TE). The hypothesis to be tested was
whether or not humans exhibit a similar susceptibility to PCDDs/PCDFs with
respect to the surface receptors found previously to respond to small doses of
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in Callithrix jacchus. These are:
helper-inducer (memory) T cells (CD4+CD45R0+CD45RA-CD29highCD11a+), CD20+ B
cells, and cytotoxic T cells (CD8+CD56+/CD57+). Furthermore, 68 triple-labellings
with mAbs were performed on the cells of each volunteer to possibly generate
further hypotheses. It was evaluated whether any of the variables might be used
as a biomarker of effects for this class of compounds. There were two main goals:
(1) to evaluate whether workers with a moderately increased PCDD/PCDF-body burden
[25-140 ppt TCDD or 104-522 ppt I-TE in blood fat] exhibit changes in the surface
receptors of white blood cells, as observed in previous studies in non-human
primates, and (2) to clarify whether persons at the upper range [10-23 ppt TCDD
or 30-90 ppt I-TE in blood fat] of the body burden reference values of a not
particularly exposed population show detectable deviations in these immunological
variables, when compared with persons at the lower and medium range [1-3 ppt TCDD
or 9-29 ppt I-TE] of these body burden reference values. Regression analysis of
our data revealed slight trends for some of the biomarkers (e.g. CD45R0+). With
one exception, these were all increases. None of the alterations observed are of 
medical relevance. The slight increase in the percentage of CD4+CD45R0+ cells
remained significant even after covariant analysis taking age-related changes
into account. Altogether, the data do not provide any evidence to support an
assumption that moderately increased body burdens of PCDDs/PCDFs in adults induce
decreases in the cellular components of the human immune system. Adult humans
certainly are less susceptible to this action of PCDDs/PCDFs than adolescent
Callithrix jacchus.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(93)90021-t 
PMID: 8255162  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4164. DNA Seq. 1993;3(6):387-92.

The molecular cloning and sequence of the common marmoset interferon-gamma
(MaIFN-gamma) gene.

Kaba A(1), Eladari ME, Mohammad-Ali K, Rhodes-Feuillette A, Galibert F.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, UPR.41, Laboratoire d'Hématologie Expérimentale, Centre Hayem, Hopital
Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

A DNA fragment covering marmoset interferon gamma (MaIFN-gamma) was cloned from
the DNA of peripheral blood leucocytes, sequenced and compared to its human
IFN-gamma counterpart. The two nucleotide sequences were found to be highly
homologous (90.3%). The position of the exons are directly comparable with those 
of the human IFN-gamma gene and follows the pattern of structural conservation
found elsewhere. The present work makes available recombinant MaIFN-gamma for
animal experiments.

DOI: 10.3109/10425179309020841 
PMID: 8219283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

