

4164. DNA Seq. 1993;3(6):387-92.

The molecular cloning and sequence of the common marmoset interferon-gamma
(MaIFN-gamma) gene.

Kaba A(1), Eladari ME, Mohammad-Ali K, Rhodes-Feuillette A, Galibert F.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, UPR.41, Laboratoire d'Hématologie Expérimentale, Centre Hayem, Hopital
Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

A DNA fragment covering marmoset interferon gamma (MaIFN-gamma) was cloned from
the DNA of peripheral blood leucocytes, sequenced and compared to its human
IFN-gamma counterpart. The two nucleotide sequences were found to be highly
homologous (90.3%). The position of the exons are directly comparable with those 
of the human IFN-gamma gene and follows the pattern of structural conservation
found elsewhere. The present work makes available recombinant MaIFN-gamma for
animal experiments.

DOI: 10.3109/10425179309020841 
PMID: 8219283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4165. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1993;61(3):135-43.

Habitat, density and group size of primates in a Brazilian tropical forest.

Pinto LP(1), Costa CM, Strier KB, da Fonseca GA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, ICB-Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil.

Habitats, population densities and group sizes of 5 primate species (Callithrix
flaviceps, Callicebus personatus personatus, Cebus apella nigritus, Alouatta
fusca clamitans, and Brachyteles arachnoides) were estimated, using the method of
repeated transect sampling, in an area of montane pluvial forest in eastern
Brazil (Atlantic forest). A. fusca and C. apella had the highest densities in
terms of groups and individuals per square kilometer, respectively, while B.
arachnoides was least abundant. The highest primate densities were observed in
areas of secondary vegetation. Both group sizes and population densities for the 
5 species were generally lower at the Reserva Biologica Augusto Ruschi than those
reported in other areas of Atlantic forest. Hunting pressure and the different
carrying capacity of the habitat are suggested as possible causes for the low
number of sightings registered for these species.

DOI: 10.1159/000156740 
PMID: 8206419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

