

4165. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1993;61(3):135-43.

Habitat, density and group size of primates in a Brazilian tropical forest.

Pinto LP(1), Costa CM, Strier KB, da Fonseca GA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, ICB-Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo
Horizonte, Brazil.

Habitats, population densities and group sizes of 5 primate species (Callithrix
flaviceps, Callicebus personatus personatus, Cebus apella nigritus, Alouatta
fusca clamitans, and Brachyteles arachnoides) were estimated, using the method of
repeated transect sampling, in an area of montane pluvial forest in eastern
Brazil (Atlantic forest). A. fusca and C. apella had the highest densities in
terms of groups and individuals per square kilometer, respectively, while B.
arachnoides was least abundant. The highest primate densities were observed in
areas of secondary vegetation. Both group sizes and population densities for the 
5 species were generally lower at the Reserva Biologica Augusto Ruschi than those
reported in other areas of Atlantic forest. Hunting pressure and the different
carrying capacity of the habitat are suggested as possible causes for the low
number of sightings registered for these species.

DOI: 10.1159/000156740 
PMID: 8206419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4166. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1993;61(3):123-34.

Social organization in a wild population of Callithrix jacchus. I. Group
composition and dynamics.

Digby LJ(1), Barreto CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California, Davis 95616.

Data are presented on group dynamics in a wild population of the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus, in northeastern Brazil. Three marked and habituated groups
were observed, and composition noted, for at least 5 days a month over 12-18
consecutive months. Group sizes ranged from 5 to 15 individuals, and changes in
group composition were the result of births, immigrations, and disappearances. No
immigrations into the main study groups were observed throughout the study
period. None of the three known emigrants was known to join an established or
incipient group for up to 10 weeks after their departure. One group contained
only breeding individuals and their offspring. Observations of recruitment and
loss in the other two groups suggest that they, too, were extended family groups.
The group dynamics described in studies of other populations of Callithrix
suggest that extended family groups, or at least groups consisting of breeding
individuals and their close relatives, may be characteristic of those
populations.

DOI: 10.1159/000156739 
PMID: 8206418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

