

4166. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1993;61(3):123-34.

Social organization in a wild population of Callithrix jacchus. I. Group
composition and dynamics.

Digby LJ(1), Barreto CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California, Davis 95616.

Data are presented on group dynamics in a wild population of the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus, in northeastern Brazil. Three marked and habituated groups
were observed, and composition noted, for at least 5 days a month over 12-18
consecutive months. Group sizes ranged from 5 to 15 individuals, and changes in
group composition were the result of births, immigrations, and disappearances. No
immigrations into the main study groups were observed throughout the study
period. None of the three known emigrants was known to join an established or
incipient group for up to 10 weeks after their departure. One group contained
only breeding individuals and their offspring. Observations of recruitment and
loss in the other two groups suggest that they, too, were extended family groups.
The group dynamics described in studies of other populations of Callithrix
suggest that extended family groups, or at least groups consisting of breeding
individuals and their close relatives, may be characteristic of those
populations.

DOI: 10.1159/000156739 
PMID: 8206418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4167. Medicina (B Aires). 1993;53(5):419-23.

Marmosets in New World leishmaniasis research.

Cuba-Cuba CA(1), Marsden PD.

Author information: 
(1)Nucleo de Medicina Tropical y Nutri√ßao, Universidade de Brasilia, Brasil.

In leishmaniasis, the search for a suitable experimental animal model is highly
recommended, especially in Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis (L. (V) b) research.
Diverse species of neotropical primates have increasingly been used as
experimental hosts of Leishmania. This article describes aspects of parasite
L(V)b and marmoset, Callithrix penicillata (Primates, Callithricidae),
interaction and summarizes the biology of parasitism in this primate model.
Results of recent studies on primary infections with several strains of L(V)b as 
well as parasitism evolution, clinical outcome patterns and immunoprotection
experiments, are summarily discussed. The relevance of homologous reinfection
experiments for vaccine development in leishmaniasis is discussed.


PMID: 8201929  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

