

4174. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1992 Dec;75(6):1556-61.

Relative effects of activin and inhibin on steroid hormone synthesis in primate
granulosa cells.

Mir√≥ F(1), Hillier SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

Ovarian granulosa cells produce inhibin and activin, structurally related
proteins with potentials to directly modulate follicular steroidogenesis. The aim
of the present study was to compare development-related effects of inhibin-A and 
activin-A on steroidogenesis in marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) granulosa
cells. Granulosa cells from "immature" (< 1.0 mm diameter) and "mature" (> 2 mm
diameter) follicles were incubated in serum-free culture medium for 96 h with and
without peptide (1-100 ng/mL), in the presence and absence of gonadotropins
[human (h) FSH or hLH] (10 ng/mL). Spent medium was collected and stored frozen
for progesterone assay. Aromatase activity was determined by incubating cells for
a further 6 h in the presence of 1 mumol testosterone and assaying accumulation
of oestradiol. Granulosa cells from immature follicles showed characteristically 
low basal rates of steroid synthesis that were unaffected by treatment alone with
either inhibin or activin. Treatment with hFSH stimulated both progesterone
production and aromatase activity. Cotreatment with activin and hFSH further
enhanced aromatase activity by up to 4-fold. The progesterone response to activin
plus hFSH was related to the effect of hFSH in the absence of activin: high-level
responsiveness to hFSH was suppressed by activin while low-level responsiveness
was enhanced. Inhibin had no significant effect on FSH-responsive progesterone
production, but at high concentrations (> 10 ng/mL) it caused slight (up to 30%) 
reduction in FSH-induced aromatase activity. Granulosa cells from mature
follicles showed relatively high basal rates of steroidogenesis, and treatment
with inhibin did not influence either basal or gonadotropin responsive
steroidogenesis. Treatment with activin had divergent effects on aromatase
activity and progesterone synthesis in that it increased both basal and
hLH-responsive aromatase activity (up to 11-fold), had no effect on basal
progesterone production, and markedly suppressed (by more than 50%) the
progesterone response to hLH. These data reveal development-dependent effects of 
inhibin and activin on granulosa cell steroidogenesis that are likely to have
physiological relevance to ovarian function in vivo.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.75.6.1464664 
PMID: 1464664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4175. Endocrinology. 1992 Dec;131(6):2581-7.

Specificity of steroid binding in New World primate B95-8 cells with a vitamin
D-resistant phenotype.

Gacad MA(1), Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center,
University of California School of Medicine, Los Angeles 90049.

We recently described the existence of a competitive binding component in vitamin
D-resistant New World primate cells that has a relatively low affinity (Kd,
approximately 10(-8) M) but high capacity for 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3
[1,25-(OH)2D3] compared to that possessed by the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Here
we show that this binding component is capable of binding a vitamin D3 metabolite
other than 1,25-(OH)2D3 as well as steroid hormones structurally disparate from
vitamin D3 sterols. We studied the binding of [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 and
[3H]25-hydroxyvitamin D3 ([3H]25OHD3) in extracts of the vitamin D-resistant
marmoset lymphoblastic cell line B95-8 in the presence and absence of potential
competitive ligands, including 25OHD3, 1,25-(OH)2D3, 17 beta-estradiol,
testosterone, and progesterone, at concentrations ranging from 1-100 nM. Compared
to extracts containing the authentic VDR, extracts of B95-8 cells bound 180% more
1,25-(OH)2D3 and 12-fold more 25OHD3 on a weight basis. The affinity of this
binder for 25OHD3 was 2.2 times as great as its affinity for 1,25-(OH)2D3.
Further, at concentrations approaching the Kd of this binder for 1,25-(OH)2D3,
25OHD3 was 3 times more effective than 1,25-(OH)2D3 in competing with
[3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 for binding. This binder eluted from a Sephadex G-100 column
with an apparent mol wt of 58 kilodaltons, and pooled elution fractions from the 
column encompassing this mol wt range were capable of inhibiting binding of
1,25-(OH)2D3 to the VDR by 65%. Competitive steroid binding analyses showed
estradiol to be at least as effective as 1,25-(OH)2D3 in inhibition of
[3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 binding; homologous binding studies with 17 beta-estradiol as
labeled and competitive ligand demonstrated that concentrations of the gonadal
steroid that successfully displaced [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 also displaced 17 beta-[3H] 
estradiol. Using [3H]25OHD3 as the labeled ligand and a more extensive array of
competitive ligands, the rank order of steroid binding was 25OHD3 > 1,25-(OH)2D3 
> or = estradiol = progesterone = testosterone. These results suggest that the
phenotype of steroid hormone resistance in New World primates may result from the
overexpression of an intracellular 58-kilodalton protein(s) that interferes with 
the steroid-receptor interaction by competing for ligand binding.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.131.6.1446602 
PMID: 1446602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

