

4175. Endocrinology. 1992 Dec;131(6):2581-7.

Specificity of steroid binding in New World primate B95-8 cells with a vitamin
D-resistant phenotype.

Gacad MA(1), Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center,
University of California School of Medicine, Los Angeles 90049.

We recently described the existence of a competitive binding component in vitamin
D-resistant New World primate cells that has a relatively low affinity (Kd,
approximately 10(-8) M) but high capacity for 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3
[1,25-(OH)2D3] compared to that possessed by the vitamin D receptor (VDR). Here
we show that this binding component is capable of binding a vitamin D3 metabolite
other than 1,25-(OH)2D3 as well as steroid hormones structurally disparate from
vitamin D3 sterols. We studied the binding of [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 and
[3H]25-hydroxyvitamin D3 ([3H]25OHD3) in extracts of the vitamin D-resistant
marmoset lymphoblastic cell line B95-8 in the presence and absence of potential
competitive ligands, including 25OHD3, 1,25-(OH)2D3, 17 beta-estradiol,
testosterone, and progesterone, at concentrations ranging from 1-100 nM. Compared
to extracts containing the authentic VDR, extracts of B95-8 cells bound 180% more
1,25-(OH)2D3 and 12-fold more 25OHD3 on a weight basis. The affinity of this
binder for 25OHD3 was 2.2 times as great as its affinity for 1,25-(OH)2D3.
Further, at concentrations approaching the Kd of this binder for 1,25-(OH)2D3,
25OHD3 was 3 times more effective than 1,25-(OH)2D3 in competing with
[3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 for binding. This binder eluted from a Sephadex G-100 column
with an apparent mol wt of 58 kilodaltons, and pooled elution fractions from the 
column encompassing this mol wt range were capable of inhibiting binding of
1,25-(OH)2D3 to the VDR by 65%. Competitive steroid binding analyses showed
estradiol to be at least as effective as 1,25-(OH)2D3 in inhibition of
[3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 binding; homologous binding studies with 17 beta-estradiol as
labeled and competitive ligand demonstrated that concentrations of the gonadal
steroid that successfully displaced [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 also displaced 17 beta-[3H] 
estradiol. Using [3H]25OHD3 as the labeled ligand and a more extensive array of
competitive ligands, the rank order of steroid binding was 25OHD3 > 1,25-(OH)2D3 
> or = estradiol = progesterone = testosterone. These results suggest that the
phenotype of steroid hormone resistance in New World primates may result from the
overexpression of an intracellular 58-kilodalton protein(s) that interferes with 
the steroid-receptor interaction by competing for ligand binding.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.131.6.1446602 
PMID: 1446602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4176. J Comp Neurol. 1992 Nov 15;325(3):379-87.

Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus basalis of the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wisniowski L(1), Ridley RM, Baker HF, Fine A.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine, Halifax,
Nova Scotia, Canada.

In the course of characterizing the distribution of putative catecholaminergic
neurons in the brain of the common marmoset, we encountered a population of such 
cells in the basal forebrain. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons are
abundant within the nucleus basalis magnocellularis throughout its entire
rostrocaudal extent, but not in other cholinergic basal forebrain nuclei. Most
tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells are large and multipolar. Double
staining with antibodies to choline acetyltransferase or nerve growth factor
receptor confirmed that these tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons are
cholinergic, and compose at least 40% of the nucleus basalis cholinergic cells.
The presence of a catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme in the neurons that provide
the major cholinergic input to the neocortex may have important consequences for 
cortical function, and may be relevant to the vulnerability of the nucleus
basalis in certain neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903250305 
PMID: 1280282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

