

4176. J Comp Neurol. 1992 Nov 15;325(3):379-87.

Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus basalis of the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wisniowski L(1), Ridley RM, Baker HF, Fine A.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine, Halifax,
Nova Scotia, Canada.

In the course of characterizing the distribution of putative catecholaminergic
neurons in the brain of the common marmoset, we encountered a population of such 
cells in the basal forebrain. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons are
abundant within the nucleus basalis magnocellularis throughout its entire
rostrocaudal extent, but not in other cholinergic basal forebrain nuclei. Most
tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells are large and multipolar. Double
staining with antibodies to choline acetyltransferase or nerve growth factor
receptor confirmed that these tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons are
cholinergic, and compose at least 40% of the nucleus basalis cholinergic cells.
The presence of a catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme in the neurons that provide
the major cholinergic input to the neocortex may have important consequences for 
cortical function, and may be relevant to the vulnerability of the nucleus
basalis in certain neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903250305 
PMID: 1280282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4177. J Chromatogr. 1992 Nov 13;625(1):55-66.

Purification of cytochromes P-450 derived from liver microsomes of untreated and 
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin-treated marmoset monkeys.

Kastner M(1), Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Germany.

The purification of multiple forms of cytochrome P-450 (P450) from
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)-treated marmosets using fast protein
liquid chromatography (FPLC) is described. The main aim was to achieve a better
separation of certain closely related P450 sub-forms from each other than that
previously obtained using conventional chromatography. An 8-aminooctyl-Sepharose 
fraction of cholate-solubilized microsomes was obtained first and, after fast
desalting on Sephadex G-25, loaded on to a preparative Mono Q column. Five of the
six gradient peaks contained P450 and were each rechromatographed on an
analytical Mono Q column. The pass-through peak was fractionated further using a 
Mono S column. Other HPLC-quality anion- and cation-exchange gels were compared. 
For removal of excess of non-ionic detergent, five types of hydroxyapatite gels
were compared. Seven purified forms of P450 and cytochrome b5 and P420 were
isolated and characterized according to PHAST sodium
dodecylsulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic apparent molecular masses,
catalytic, spectral and magnetic properties and also TCDD-binding capacity (molar
ratio of [14C]TCDD to P450). There are at least two sub-forms which appear to be 
TCDD inducible, one showing a substantial ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity
and the other having a high TCDD-binding molar ratio. Two other forms appear to
be constitutive, as deduced from comparisons with forms purified from untreated
animals.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9673(92)87221-s 
PMID: 12126110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

