

4181. Mol Cell Biochem. 1992 Oct 21;116(1-2):19-25.

Dietary modulation of lipid metabolism and mechanical performance of the heart.

Charnock JS(1), McLennan PL, Abeywardena MY.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO, Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratories, South Australia.

Sudden Cardiac Death resulting from sustained ventricular fibrillation or
malignant cardiac arrhythmia has been linked to the type of dietary fat intake in
several economically well developed countries where high levels of saturated
fatty acids are common. Experimental studies with the small non-human primate
marmoset monkey have clearly demonstrated the health benefit of substituting
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA's) for dietary saturated fatty acids. Heart
rate and blood pressure are lowered, while the left ventricular ejection fraction
and the electrical threshold for the induction of ventricular fibrillation are
both increased after prolonged feeding of PUFA enriched diets. All these changes 
in heart function reduce the risk of developing malignant cardiac arrhythmias.
The fatty acid composition of cardiac membrane phospholipids is profoundly
altered by these changes in dietary lipid intake. In particular the proportions
of arachidonic acid (AA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid
(DHA) are altered in such a way that the production of myocardial eicosanoids is 
affected. Although the changes in proportion of these long-chain PUFA's in
cardiac phosphatidyl ethanolamine and phosphatidyl inositol are not identical,
the shift in balance between these substrates or inhibitors of cyclo-oxygenase
activity leads to relatively greater production of prostacyclin (PGI2) than
thromboxane (TXA2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01270564 
PMID: 1480148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4182. Nucleic Acids Res. 1992 Oct 11;20(19):5241-2.

A simple in vitro site directed mutagenesis of concatamerized cDNA by inverse
polymerase chain reaction.

Heda GD(1), Henion TR, Galili U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical College of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia 19129.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/20.19.5241 
PMCID: PMC334322
PMID: 1408848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

