

4186. Biol Reprod. 1992 Oct;47(4):554-60.

Evidence that most of the radioimmunoassayable inhibin secreted by the corpus
luteum of the common marmoset monkey is of a non-dimeric form.

Knight PG(1), Muttukrishna S, Groome N, Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Physiology, University of Reading, Whiteknights, 
United Kingdom.

Although recent data for several species of primate, including human and
marmoset, indicate that the corpus luteum secretes high levels of
radioimmunoassayable inhibin, the nature of the immunoreactive (ir) inhibin
detected has not been established. In this study, plasma ir-inhibin levels during
the ovarian cycle of the marmoset (n = 12 animals) were measured by
alpha-subunit-directed inhibin RIA, and values were compared with those estimated
by a recently developed two-site immunoradiometric assay (IRMA) specific for
inhibin alpha-beta dimer. Consistent with earlier data, plasma levels of
ir-inhibin measured by RIA (overall mean value 133 +/- 7 ng/ml; n = 171) reached 
values 4-fold higher (p less than 0.001) during the luteal phase (222 +/- 20
ng/ml) than during the follicular phase (58 +/- 8 ng/ml), being directly
correlated with plasma progesterone levels (r = 0.65; p less than 0.001). In
contrast, plasma ir-inhibin levels estimated by IRMA were substantially lower
than those measured by RIA (overall mean value 9.62 +/- 1.08 ng/ml; n = 171) and 
did not vary significantly during the cycle. Administration of a luteolytic dose 
of cloprostenol during the late luteal phase/early pregnancy led to an abrupt
fall in plasma concentrations of progesterone (95%) and alpha-inhibin measured by
RIA (82%), whereas dimeric inhibin levels remained unchanged. Analysis of
marmoset luteal extracts (n = 5) by RIA, IRMA, and inhibin bioassay yielded
inhibin estimates of 102.6 +/- 21.0, 0.632 +/- 0.103, and less than 2.0 ng/mg,
respectively, thus confirming that only a very small proportion of the inhibin
produced was dimeric (i.e., bioactive) in nature.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod47.4.554 
PMID: 1391341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4187. J Anat. 1992 Oct;181 ( Pt 2):301-12.

Zonal differentiation of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) endometrium.

Rune GM(1), Leuchtenberg U, Schr√∂ter-Kermani C, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The differentiation of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) endometrium under
different steroid hormone levels was investigated by electron microscopy and by
the binding of different antibodies directed against collagen types. Based on
differences in the glandular and interglandular compartments, the endometrium of 
sexually mature common marmosets consists of 3 zones: basal, adluminal and
luminal. Hormone-dependent appearances are characterised. With low steroid
concentrations, intercellular spaces between glandular epithelial cells occurred 
in the adluminal and the luminal areas. Epithelial cells of the basal region
exhibited coated pits and phagolysosomes together with large apical protrusions. 
Under oestrogen dominance, phagolysosomes, fat vesicles and apical protrusions
were evident in epithelial cells in the adluminal region. Secretory granules and 
concentric glycogen accumulations were a characteristic feature in epithelial
cells of the adluminal and basal regions. With high progesterone concentrations, 
large empty vesicles were found with a higher frequency in adluminal than in
basal epithelial cells. Using FITC-labelled antibodies against types V and VI
collagen, binding was apparent adluminally in close vicinity to basement
membranes, whereas reactivity was seen in the entire interglandular region of the
basal area during this phase. Our findings indicate specific microenvironments
with distinctive structural characteristics in the marmoset endometrium that are 
hormone dependent during all phases of the endometrial cycle. They are not
related to menstruation, appear to be characteristic for primates and could
reflect epithelial-mesenchymal interaction.


PMCID: PMC1259725
PMID: 1295868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

