

4187. J Anat. 1992 Oct;181 ( Pt 2):301-12.

Zonal differentiation of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) endometrium.

Rune GM(1), Leuchtenberg U, Schr√∂ter-Kermani C, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The differentiation of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) endometrium under
different steroid hormone levels was investigated by electron microscopy and by
the binding of different antibodies directed against collagen types. Based on
differences in the glandular and interglandular compartments, the endometrium of 
sexually mature common marmosets consists of 3 zones: basal, adluminal and
luminal. Hormone-dependent appearances are characterised. With low steroid
concentrations, intercellular spaces between glandular epithelial cells occurred 
in the adluminal and the luminal areas. Epithelial cells of the basal region
exhibited coated pits and phagolysosomes together with large apical protrusions. 
Under oestrogen dominance, phagolysosomes, fat vesicles and apical protrusions
were evident in epithelial cells in the adluminal region. Secretory granules and 
concentric glycogen accumulations were a characteristic feature in epithelial
cells of the adluminal and basal regions. With high progesterone concentrations, 
large empty vesicles were found with a higher frequency in adluminal than in
basal epithelial cells. Using FITC-labelled antibodies against types V and VI
collagen, binding was apparent adluminally in close vicinity to basement
membranes, whereas reactivity was seen in the entire interglandular region of the
basal area during this phase. Our findings indicate specific microenvironments
with distinctive structural characteristics in the marmoset endometrium that are 
hormone dependent during all phases of the endometrial cycle. They are not
related to menstruation, appear to be characteristic for primates and could
reflect epithelial-mesenchymal interaction.


PMCID: PMC1259725
PMID: 1295868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4188. J Neurosci. 1992 Sep;12(9):3456-65.

Changes in the cortical map of the hand following postnatal ulnar and radial
nerve injury in monkeys: organization and modification of nerve dominance
aggregates.

Wall JT(1), Huerta MF, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699.

The ulnar and radial nerves to the hands of 12-31-d-old marmoset monkeys were
transected and ligated, and the monkeys were subsequently reared for periods of
1.4-1.6 years with only median nerve innervation to the hand. Features of
organization in the cortical area 3b hand map were then assessed with
neurophysiological mapping procedures, and compared to features in monkeys that
had undergone either a normal postnatal development with three intact hand
nerves, or an abnormal development with two intact nerves due to postnatal injury
of the median nerve. A systematic comparison of cortical organization in these
monkeys led to three main findings. First, some features of organization show
little or no change when monkeys are reared with one, two, or three hand nerves. 
These features include receptive field size and the overall size of the hand map.
Second, other features are, in contrast, clearly altered in an injury-dependent
manner. These features include cortical neuronal thresholds to light tactile
stimuli, and the spatial location, size, shape, continuity, and somatotopic
interfacing of representations of the parts of the hand. Finally, estimates of
the peripheral innervation territories of the hand nerves, and of the
corresponding distributions of cortical neurons activated by inputs from these
territories, indicate that the normal hand map contains bandlike aggregates of
neurons that are dominantly activated by inputs from each nerve. Postnatal nerve 
injuries alter the size of these nerve dominance aggregates.


PMCID: PMC6575727
PMID: 1527590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

