

4192. J Reprod Fertil. 1992 Sep;96(1):385-93.

Stimulation of immunoreactive inhibin production by preimplantation embryos
during early pregnancy in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Webley GE(1), Knight PG, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, London, UK.

The role of the embryo in promoting increased plasma concentrations of
immunoreactive inhibin after conception in the marmoset monkey was determined by 
flushing embryos from the uterus between days 5 and 9 after ovulation
(implantation commences on days 11-12). Blood samples were taken from each animal
(three times a week) after ovulation until the end of the luteal phase. Plasma
inhibin concentrations were measured using a radioimmunoassay based on antisera
against a synthetic fragment of the alpha-subunit of human inhibin. When embryos 
were flushed on days 5 and 6 (n = 6) after ovulation inhibin concentrations did
not exceed 250 ng ml-1 for the duration of the luteal phase. In contrast when
embryos were flushed on days 7 (n = 4), 8 (n = 4) and 9 (n = 3) maximum
concentrations of inhibin always exceeded 250 ng ml-1, reaching > 400 ng ml-1
when embryos were flushed on days 8 and 9. Inhibin concentrations remained high
for the duration of the luteal phase, which varied in length between 20 and 32
days. Significantly (P < 0.01) higher mean plasma concentrations of
immunoreactive inhibin were first recorded on days 7-8 after ovulation in animals
that had embryos flushed on days 7, 8 and 9 compared with concentrations in
animals that had embryos flushed on days 5 and 6. Inhibin could not be detected
in the medium of embryos cultured for up to 2 weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0960385 
PMID: 1432971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4193. J Med Virol. 1992 Sep;38(1):27-31.

Prevalence of serum antibodies against lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus in
selected populations from two U.S. cities.

Stephensen CB(1), Blount SR, Lanford RE, Holmes KV, Montali RJ, Fleenor ME, Shaw 
JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of
Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

An ELISA was developed for measuring serum antibodies against the arenavirus
lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and a closely related isolate termed
callitrichid hepatitis virus (CHV). The ELISA was used to test sera from healthy 
adults and from hepatitis patients. In Birmingham, Alabama, the seropositivity
rate for healthy black women was 5.1% (7/138), and the rate for patients with all
types of hepatitis or cirrhosis was 4.3% (2/46). In San Antonio, Texas, the
seropositivity rate among a clinical series of patients with non-A, non-B
hepatitis was 0 (0/20), and the rate among persons rejected from blood donation
because of high serum alanine aminotransferase levels was 2.4% (2/82). These
results indicate that infection with LCMV or CHV is common in Birmingham but that
infection is not associated with hepatitis.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890380107 
PMID: 1402829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

