

4193. J Med Virol. 1992 Sep;38(1):27-31.

Prevalence of serum antibodies against lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus in
selected populations from two U.S. cities.

Stephensen CB(1), Blount SR, Lanford RE, Holmes KV, Montali RJ, Fleenor ME, Shaw 
JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of
Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

An ELISA was developed for measuring serum antibodies against the arenavirus
lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and a closely related isolate termed
callitrichid hepatitis virus (CHV). The ELISA was used to test sera from healthy 
adults and from hepatitis patients. In Birmingham, Alabama, the seropositivity
rate for healthy black women was 5.1% (7/138), and the rate for patients with all
types of hepatitis or cirrhosis was 4.3% (2/46). In San Antonio, Texas, the
seropositivity rate among a clinical series of patients with non-A, non-B
hepatitis was 0 (0/20), and the rate among persons rejected from blood donation
because of high serum alanine aminotransferase levels was 2.4% (2/82). These
results indicate that infection with LCMV or CHV is common in Birmingham but that
infection is not associated with hepatitis.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890380107 
PMID: 1402829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4194. Epilepsy Res. 1992 Sep;12(3):243-51.

Neuropathological changes during generalized seizures in newborn monkeys.

Fujikawa DG(1), SÃ¶derfeldt B, Wasterlain CG.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Neurology Laboratory, Sepulveda VA Medical Center, CA 91343.

The brains of four 2-week-old marmoset monkeys were perfusion-fixed immediately
after bicuculline-induced seizures lasting 1.5-4.3 h and were later examined by
light and electron microscopy. Mean arterial blood pressure and rectal
temperature measurements during seizures did not differ significantly from
baseline. Plasma glucose concentrations decreased to the 1.5 mM range at the end 
of seizures, and arterial pH and bicarbonate were lower than in control animals, 
although arterial pO2 and pCO2 were maintained. Neuropathological changes were
minimal. Swollen astrocytic processes surrounded some capillaries and some
neurons in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, putamen and thalamus. Almost all the
neurons examined looked normal, but mitochondrial swelling was present in a few. 
All but the most severe mitochondrial swelling, which occurred very rarely in one
of four animals, is potentially reversible. The virtual absence of neuronal
necrosis in these neonatal monkeys is consistent with the resistance to
seizure-induced brain damage found in immature rats, and stands in sharp contrast
to the damage seen in older animals. Lack of neuronal damage, however, does not
rule out potential adverse effects of prolonged seizure activity on subsequent
brain growth and development.

DOI: 10.1016/0920-1211(92)90078-8 
PMID: 1396549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

