

4194. Epilepsy Res. 1992 Sep;12(3):243-51.

Neuropathological changes during generalized seizures in newborn monkeys.

Fujikawa DG(1), SÃ¶derfeldt B, Wasterlain CG.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Neurology Laboratory, Sepulveda VA Medical Center, CA 91343.

The brains of four 2-week-old marmoset monkeys were perfusion-fixed immediately
after bicuculline-induced seizures lasting 1.5-4.3 h and were later examined by
light and electron microscopy. Mean arterial blood pressure and rectal
temperature measurements during seizures did not differ significantly from
baseline. Plasma glucose concentrations decreased to the 1.5 mM range at the end 
of seizures, and arterial pH and bicarbonate were lower than in control animals, 
although arterial pO2 and pCO2 were maintained. Neuropathological changes were
minimal. Swollen astrocytic processes surrounded some capillaries and some
neurons in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, putamen and thalamus. Almost all the
neurons examined looked normal, but mitochondrial swelling was present in a few. 
All but the most severe mitochondrial swelling, which occurred very rarely in one
of four animals, is potentially reversible. The virtual absence of neuronal
necrosis in these neonatal monkeys is consistent with the resistance to
seizure-induced brain damage found in immature rats, and stands in sharp contrast
to the damage seen in older animals. Lack of neuronal damage, however, does not
rule out potential adverse effects of prolonged seizure activity on subsequent
brain growth and development.

DOI: 10.1016/0920-1211(92)90078-8 
PMID: 1396549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4195. Neurosci Lett. 1992 Aug 3;142(1):1-4.

Dopamine D1 and D2 receptor interactions in the MPTP-treated marmoset.

Elliott PJ(1), Walsh DM, Close SP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropharmacology, Glaxo Group Research Ltd., Ware,
Hertfordshire, UK.

In a modified MPTP model of Parkinson's disease in the marmoset, both L-DOPA and 
the dopamine D2 agonist quinpirole were found to exhibit anti-bradykinetic
activity. Both the dopamine D1 agonist SKF38393 and the D1 antagonist SCH23390
reduced the anti-bradykinetic action of L-DOPA and quinpirole. These results are 
discussed with respect to partial agonist activity of SKF38393 and the
possibility that other dopamine receptors may be required for anti-Parkinsonian
drug activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(92)90606-8 
PMID: 1357609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

