

4197. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 Aug;88(4):469-82.

Vertical clinging, small body size, and the evolution of feeding adaptations in
the Callitrichinae.

Garber PA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois, Urbana 61801.

Primates of the subfamily Callitrichinae (Callimico, Callithrix, Leontopithecus, 
and Saguinus) are small-bodied New World monkeys (105-700 g) possessing clawlike 
nails on all manual and pedal digits excluding the hallux. Specialized nails in
these genera serve a critical function in feeding by enabling tamarins and
marmosets to cling to trunks and other large vertical supports while exploiting
food resources. Within the subfamily, there is evidence of at least four distinct
large-branch feeding patterns. These include (1) seasonal exudate feeding and
occasional trunk foraging (many Saguinus spp.); (2) exploitation of bark surface 
insects and the use of trunks as a platform to locate terrestrial prey (Saguinus 
fuscicollis, S. nigricollis, and Callimico); (3) manipulative foraging and bark
stripping to locate concealed insects and small vertebrates (Leontopithecus); and
(4) tree gouging and year-round exudate feeding (many Callithrix). Large-branch
feeding and the use of vertical clinging postures appear to be a primary
adaptation among virtually all callitrichines, distinguishing them ecologically
from other platyrrhine taxa. Given the anatomy and behavior of extant
callitrichines, Saguinus appears to be the most ecologically generalized member
of this subfamily, and species of this genus may provide useful models for
reconstructing the feeding and foraging adaptations of early callitrichines.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330880404 
PMID: 1503119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4198. J Autoimmun. 1992 Aug;5(4):511-25.

Effect of ultraviolet irradiation on selected host cell proteins including
Ro/SS-A and Epstein-Barr virus in cultured lymphoblastoid cell lines.

Newkirk MM(1), Tsoukas C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Montreal General Hospital Research Institute, McGill
University, Canada.

Although systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and Sj√∂gren's syndrome (SS) are
distinct collagen vascular illnesses, they share certain features. Both have
clinical manifestations involving skin and mucous membranes and
characteristically have high titers of circulating autoantibodies to the cellular
components Ro/SS-A, calreticulin/Ro, 52 kDa Ro and La/SS-B. Viruses have been
postulated to be involved in the pathogenesis of both diseases. Sensitivity to
sun is a cardinal feature of SLE, and UV light may be involved in its
pathogenesis. Using human B-lymphoblastoid cell lines, the effect of the resident
Epstein-Barr virus on the expression of the above cellular components was
investigated by flow cytometry. Sublethal irradiation with ultraviolet B light
appeared to diminish EBV antigen expression (gp350/220) during the first 48 to 72
hours in culture, whereas there was no change in the expression of MHC class I or
immunoglobulin host cell proteins, and an apparent increase in the expression of 
host cell autoantigens. The virus appeared to be more sensitive to UVB-induced
damage yet did appear to be able to undergo repair. No direct correlation could
be made between the presence of the virus and the increase in autoantigen
expression. La/SS-B and/or 52 kDa Ro antigen(s) were found to be present in the
cytoplasm of the B lymphoblastoid cells at a higher base level in EBV-infected
cell lines than in the EBV-negative cell lines.

DOI: 10.1016/0896-8411(92)90009-f 
PMID: 1329799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

