

4201. Eur J Biochem. 1992 Jul 15;207(2):757-66.

Molecular evolution of alanine/glyoxylate aminotransferase 1 intracellular
targeting. Analysis of the marmoset and rabbit genes.

Purdue PE(1), Lumb MJ, Danpure CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Biochemical Genetics Research Group, Clinical Research Centre, Harrow,
England.

In mammals, the subcellular distribution of alanine:glyoxylate aminotransferase 1
(AGT) is species dependent, with the proportion of AGT targeted to mitochondria
varying between 0% and greater than 90%, the remainder being located in the
peroxisome. In order to extend our studies on the molecular evolution of
intracellular targeting of AGT, we have investigated the organization and
expression of the AGT genes of rabbit, which has all of its AGT located in the
peroxisome, and marmoset, which has approximately 50% of its AGT located in the
peroxisome and 50% in the mitochondrion. Southern-blot analysis indicates that,
in both of these species, AGT is encoded by a single-copy gene, as has previously
been shown for human (all AGT in the peroxisome) and rat (50% AGT in the
peroxisome and 50% in the mitochondrion). Comparison of the cDNA sequences
encoding marmoset, rabbit, human and rat AGT, combined with transcript mapping
and in vitro mitochondrial protein-import analysis, has provided a molecular
explanation for the differential targeting of AGT in these species. As in the
rat, marmoset AGT is synthesized in two forms, via the use of alternative
transcription and translation-initiation sites. These two forms of AGT differ
only in the presence or absence of a 22-amino-acid amino-terminal peptide, which 
acts as a cleavable mitochondrial-targeting sequence, directing the longer form
of AGT to mitochondria. The shorter form of AGT, lacking the
mitochondrial-targeting sequence, is presumed to be localized in the peroxisomes.
In humans and rabbits, similar but distinct evolutionary mutational events within
the AGT gene have resulted in exclusion of the region encoding the
mitochondrial-targeting sequence from the open reading frame, explaining the
exclusive peroxisomal localization of AGT in these species. We discuss the impact
of these results on our understanding of both the evolution of species dependence
of AGT subcellular distribution and the recent identification of amino acid
changes in human AGT which result in mistargeting of this protein to
mitochondria.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1992.tb17106.x 
PMID: 1339350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4202. J Med Chem. 1992 Jul 10;35(14):2643-51.

Pharmacokinetics of catechol cephalosporins. The effect of incorporating
substituents into the catechol moiety on pharmacokinetics in a marmoset model.

Bird TG(1), Arnould JC, Bertrandie A, Jung FH.

Author information: 
(1)ICI Pharma, Centre de Recherches, Z.I. La Pompelle-B.P. Reims, France.

Two series of cephalosporins A and B have been synthesized, bearing at C-3'
catechols substituted with various electron withdrawing groups (Y) and differing 
links (X), and were evaluated for their in vitro antibacterial activity and their
pharmacokinetics in marmosets. Compounds in series A, bearing an isobutyric oxime
substituent, proved to be highly active against Gram-negative organisms and were 
especially noteworthy for showing long elimination phase (beta) half-lives in
marmosets. It was established that introduction of electron withdrawing
substituents greatly increased the beta half-lives of compounds (5, X = NHCO, Y =
H, t1/2 = 1.25 h, AUC = 27 mg/h per L; 11, X = NHCO, Y = 5-Cl, t1/2 = 4.5 h, AUC 
= 638 mg/h per L) and that the nature of the link also influenced t1/2, the
highest values being obtained when X = NHCO and OCO. Acidities (pKa values) of
the substituted catechols were measured, and relationships between the acidities 
and half-lives were evaluated. Thus it was established that the more acidic
catechols gave the longest half-lives (12, X = NHCO, Y = 2,5-Cl2, t1/2 = 8.2 h,
AUC = 461 mg/h per L). Further elaboration of the catechol to bicyclic systems
maintained good pharmacokinetics when the pKa was sufficiently acidic.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00092a015 
PMID: 1635063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

