

4202. J Med Chem. 1992 Jul 10;35(14):2643-51.

Pharmacokinetics of catechol cephalosporins. The effect of incorporating
substituents into the catechol moiety on pharmacokinetics in a marmoset model.

Bird TG(1), Arnould JC, Bertrandie A, Jung FH.

Author information: 
(1)ICI Pharma, Centre de Recherches, Z.I. La Pompelle-B.P. Reims, France.

Two series of cephalosporins A and B have been synthesized, bearing at C-3'
catechols substituted with various electron withdrawing groups (Y) and differing 
links (X), and were evaluated for their in vitro antibacterial activity and their
pharmacokinetics in marmosets. Compounds in series A, bearing an isobutyric oxime
substituent, proved to be highly active against Gram-negative organisms and were 
especially noteworthy for showing long elimination phase (beta) half-lives in
marmosets. It was established that introduction of electron withdrawing
substituents greatly increased the beta half-lives of compounds (5, X = NHCO, Y =
H, t1/2 = 1.25 h, AUC = 27 mg/h per L; 11, X = NHCO, Y = 5-Cl, t1/2 = 4.5 h, AUC 
= 638 mg/h per L) and that the nature of the link also influenced t1/2, the
highest values being obtained when X = NHCO and OCO. Acidities (pKa values) of
the substituted catechols were measured, and relationships between the acidities 
and half-lives were evaluated. Thus it was established that the more acidic
catechols gave the longest half-lives (12, X = NHCO, Y = 2,5-Cl2, t1/2 = 8.2 h,
AUC = 461 mg/h per L). Further elaboration of the catechol to bicyclic systems
maintained good pharmacokinetics when the pKa was sufficiently acidic.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00092a015 
PMID: 1635063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4203. J Med Chem. 1992 Jul 10;35(14):2631-42.

Synthesis and structure-activity relationships of cephalosporins with C-3'
catechol-containing residues.

Arnould JC(1), Bertrandie A, Bird TG, Boucherot D, Jung F, Lohmann JJ, Olivier A,
Bailey JP, Bell W, Davies GM.

Author information: 
(1)ICI Pharma, Centre de Recherches, Reims, France.

Cephalosporins with new catechol substituents at C-3' have been synthesized,
including novel compounds with C-3' carbon-carbon bonds. Many of these compounds 
have high potency against Gram-negative bacteria, in particular against resistant
strains like Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Structure-activity relationships are
discussed in terms of their dependence on the pKa of the C-3' catechol and also
in terms of steric and conformational factors of the C-3' substituent. The best
overall properties were found in compounds with a bulky and/or conformationally
restricted acidic C-3' catechol.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00092a014 
PMID: 1635062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

