

4203. J Med Chem. 1992 Jul 10;35(14):2631-42.

Synthesis and structure-activity relationships of cephalosporins with C-3'
catechol-containing residues.

Arnould JC(1), Bertrandie A, Bird TG, Boucherot D, Jung F, Lohmann JJ, Olivier A,
Bailey JP, Bell W, Davies GM.

Author information: 
(1)ICI Pharma, Centre de Recherches, Reims, France.

Cephalosporins with new catechol substituents at C-3' have been synthesized,
including novel compounds with C-3' carbon-carbon bonds. Many of these compounds 
have high potency against Gram-negative bacteria, in particular against resistant
strains like Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Structure-activity relationships are
discussed in terms of their dependence on the pKa of the C-3' catechol and also
in terms of steric and conformational factors of the C-3' substituent. The best
overall properties were found in compounds with a bulky and/or conformationally
restricted acidic C-3' catechol.

DOI: 10.1021/jm00092a014 
PMID: 1635062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4204. Brain Res. 1992 Jul 10;585(1-2):156-60.

Chronic MPTP treatment reduces substance P and met-enkephalin content in the
basal ganglia of the marmoset.

Pérez-Otaño I(1), Herrero MT, Luquin MR, Obeso JA, Del Río J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Navarra Medical School, Pamplona,
Spain.

Common marmosets were treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP, 1.25-2.5 mg/kg s.c., twice a week) for 5-10 consecutive months. The
initial doses of MPTP produced a severe parkinsonian syndrome but motor activity 
was partially recovered at the end of treatment. Fifteen days or 6 months after
the last MPTP dose, monkeys were sacrificed. In addition to a strong decrease of 
dopamine in the striatum, there were significant reductions in substance P and
Met-enkephalin content in the substantia nigra, caudate nucleus and putamen. In
the globus pallidus, the reduction in peptide levels did not reach statistical
significance as compared to controls. Neurotensin levels were also decreased in
the caudate nucleus. The chronic administration of MPTP for 5-10 months induces
changes in substance P and Met-enkephalin systems which resemble the degeneration
found in brains from parkinsonian patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(92)91201-o 
PMID: 1380867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

