

4204. Brain Res. 1992 Jul 10;585(1-2):156-60.

Chronic MPTP treatment reduces substance P and met-enkephalin content in the
basal ganglia of the marmoset.

Pérez-Otaño I(1), Herrero MT, Luquin MR, Obeso JA, Del Río J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Navarra Medical School, Pamplona,
Spain.

Common marmosets were treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP, 1.25-2.5 mg/kg s.c., twice a week) for 5-10 consecutive months. The
initial doses of MPTP produced a severe parkinsonian syndrome but motor activity 
was partially recovered at the end of treatment. Fifteen days or 6 months after
the last MPTP dose, monkeys were sacrificed. In addition to a strong decrease of 
dopamine in the striatum, there were significant reductions in substance P and
Met-enkephalin content in the substantia nigra, caudate nucleus and putamen. In
the globus pallidus, the reduction in peptide levels did not reach statistical
significance as compared to controls. Neurotensin levels were also decreased in
the caudate nucleus. The chronic administration of MPTP for 5-10 months induces
changes in substance P and Met-enkephalin systems which resemble the degeneration
found in brains from parkinsonian patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(92)91201-o 
PMID: 1380867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4205. Eur J Pharmacol. 1992 Jul 7;217(2-3):211-3.

Neurotoxic effect of prenatal exposure to MPTP on the dopaminergic systems of the
marmoset brain.

Pérez-Otaño I(1), Oset C, Trinidad Herrero M, Luquin MR, Kupsch A, Oertel W,
Obeso JA, Del Río J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Navarra Medical School, Pamplona,
Spain.

MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) was incidentally administered
to pregnant marmosets during the whole gestational period, except for the last 15
days before term. The infant monkeys were killed 5 months after birth, and
dopamine and its metabolites were measured in the striatum and the nucleus
accumbens. Prenatal exposure to MPTP produced a marked dopamine depletion in
these brain regions of the offspring, showing that MPTP is able to cross the
placental barrier in primates.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(92)90873-3 
PMID: 1425940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

