

4206. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 1992 Jul;115(1):50-6.

Therapeutic efficacy of HI-6 in soman-poisoned marmoset monkeys.

van Helden HP(1), van der Wiel HJ, de Lange J, Busker RW, Melchers BP, Wolthuis
OL.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Biological Laboratory TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

The therapeutic efficacy of the oxime HI-6 against intoxication with the
irreversible cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitor soman was tested in marmoset monkeys.
Five out of six marmosets, intoxicated with 5 x LD50 soman and treated
immediately with diazepam (0.2 mg.kg-1 iv) and 15 sec later with atropine (0.5
mg.kg-1 im) and HI-6 (50 mg.kg-1 im), survived for more than 24 hr. One of these 
animals died after 4 days. In the HI-6-treated marmosets blood ChE activity was
inhibited at a rate slower than that in three animals treated similarly but with 
saline instead of HI-6. The latter marmosets died within 8 min after soman. HI-6 
achieved its plasma peak 5 min after injection and was eliminated with a t1/2 of 
about 40 min. In a second experiment similarly treated marmosets were euthanized 
at 5 min (three saline-treated animals) or at 10 min (three HI-6-treated animals)
after the soman intoxication to enable the determination of acetylcholinesterase 
(AChE) activities in diaphragm and brain tissue. In addition, in these animals
blood AChE and butyrylcholine esterase (BuChE) activities were determined. Low
AChE activities were encountered in diaphragms and brains. These levels were not 
significantly different between saline- and HI-6-treated marmosets. In vitro
treatment with HI-6 at 40 min after soman still led to an increase of the AChE
activity, which was significant in diaphragm, suggesting that postmortem AChE
inhibition had occurred. The ratio of AChE to BuChE in blood was significantly
enhanced in HI-6-treated animals, indicating that HI-6 preferentially reactivated
AChE. It is concluded that (i) HI-6 is an effective treatment against soman
poisoning in marmosets and (ii) AChE reactivation or protection by HI-6
contributed to the survival of the animals.

DOI: 10.1016/0041-008x(92)90366-z 
PMID: 1631893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4207. J Gerontol. 1992 Jul;47(4):B126-9.

Accumulation of cardiac lipofuscin depends on metabolic rate of mammals.

Nakano M(1), Gotoh S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Medical Science of Aging, Aichi Medical University, Japan.

The accumulation of lipofuscin, an important phenomenon during aging, suggests
that the sexual maturity (puberty) of mammals is a starting point of the aging
process. The rate of cardiac lipofuscin accumulation was not correlated linearly 
with maximum life span of mammals, but the correlation was a power function of
the maximum life span. The rate of lipofuscin accumulation statistically
correlated with the specific metabolic rate, and inversely correlated with the
brain weight of mammals. The first appearance of lipofuscin showed a good
correlation with the brain weight. However, the slope of the line was different
between primates and domestic and laboratory animals. From these results, it is
suggested that the accumulation of cardiac lipofuscin is dependent on the
specific metabolic rate of mammals.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/47.4.b126 
PMID: 1624688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

