

4213. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1992 Jul-Sep;87(3):449-50.

A Brazilian hepatitis A virus isolated and adapted in primate and primate cell
line as a chance for the development of a vaccine.

Gaspar AM(1), Vitral CL, Marchevsky RS, Yoshida CF, Schatzmayr HG.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Virologia, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761992000300020 
PMID: 1343657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4214. J Comp Neurol. 1992 Jun 22;320(4):457-67.

The selective innervation by serotoninergic axons of calbindin-containing
interneurons in the neocortex and hippocampus of the marmoset.

Hornung JP(1), Celio MR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Lausanne,
Switzerland.

The serotoninergic input to the mammalian cerebral cortex originates in the
median and the dorsal raphe nuclei. Median raphe neurons have been previously
shown to give rise to beaded varicose axons which form dense pericellular arrays 
(baskets) surrounding the soma and the proximal dendrites of certain cortical
neurons. In the present study, we have searched for specific markers
characterizing the neurons of the marmoset neocortex and hippocampus surrounded
by these thick varicose serotonin-containing fibers. The non-pyramidal nature of 
these neurons, suggested by their dendritic arborization, was correlated, in
immunocytochemical experiments with double-labelling to demonstrate their
surrounding serotonin-containing basket and their content of glutamic acid
decarboxylase (GAD) or of the calcium-binding protein calbindin. Another
calcium-binding protein common in numerous non-pyramidal cortical neurons,
parvalbumin, was never found in neurons surrounded by serotonin-containing
baskets. This organization was found in all areas of the neocortex and of the
hippocampus where serotonin-containing baskets were present. One of the
serotoninergic cortical inputs which originates from the brainstem tegmentum,
traditionally described as "diffuse," proves to be highly selective in that a
subset of its axons terminates preferentially on a subpopulation of inhibitory
interneurons of the cerebral cortex. It may be emphasized that this subset of
cortical interneurons has now been shown to be characterized not only by its
axonal and dendritic arborization and its neurotransmitter, but also by a
specific type of input which can modulate cortical function in a unique manner.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903200404 
PMID: 1629398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

