

4217. Am Heart J. 1992 Jun;123(6):1555-61.

Dietary lipid modulation of ventricular fibrillation threshold in the marmoset
monkey.

McLennan PL(1), Bridle TM, Abeywardena MY, Charnock JS.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiac Research Unit, C.S.I.R.O. Division of Human Nutrition, O'Halloran
Hill, Australia.

Programmed electrical stimulation was used to examine the ability of long-term
dietary lipid modulation to influence myocardial vulnerability to the induction
of ventricular fibrillation in adult marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).
Marmosets fed diets supplemented (to a total of 28.5% of the energy as fat) with 
polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA)-rich tuna fish oil or sunflower seed oil had
significantly elevated mean ventricular fibrillation threshold compared with
those fed a saturated animal fat supplemented diet or a reference diet not
supplemented with fat (11.2% of the energy as fat). Fibrillation threshold was
reduced during acute myocardial ischemia induced by coronary artery occlusion but
still remained higher in the PUFA-fed animals than either the control or the
ischemic threshold in reference or saturated fat supplemented animals. Dietary
tuna fish oil was associated with a low incidence of sustained fibrillation
episodes and no fatalities. These results indicate that myocardial substrate
vulnerability to arrhythmic stimuli is increased during ischemia in a nonhuman
primate model but dietary PUFA can reduce vulnerability under both normal and
ischemic conditions. Reduced dietary fat intake alone was without effect.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(92)90809-a 
PMID: 1595535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4218. EMBO J. 1992 Jun;11(6):2039-45.

The polymorphic photopigments of the marmoset: spectral tuning and genetic basis.

Williams AJ(1), Hunt DM, Bowmaker JK, Mollon JD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Queen Mary and Westfield College, University of
London, UK.

The marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus), a South American monkey, is
polymorphic for the middle- to long-wave cone photopigments: the three variant
pigments have spectral peaks at 543, 556 and 563 nm. Comparisons of the deduced
amino acid sequences of these pigments indicate that the variations in spectral
sensitivity are associated with the presence or absence of hydroxyl-bearing
residues at sites 180 and 285; but, in contrast to the additive hypothesis of
Neitz et al. (1991), we propose that adjustments at site 233 may also be required
to produce viable long-wave and middle-wave pigments. Within a family group of
monkeys, we find that a restriction site polymorphism in the photopigment gene
segregates in a way that is consistent with the single X-linked gene hypothesis
previously proposed on the basis of the photopigment types present in male and
female marmosets.


PMCID: PMC556669
PMID: 1534748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

