

4219. Brain. 1992 Jun;115 ( Pt 3):825-56.

Behavioural analysis of unilateral monoamine depletion in the marmoset.

Annett LE(1), Rogers DC, Hernandez TD, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

Unilateral stereotaxic injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the
nigrostriatal bundle of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) produced substantial
losses of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons from the substantia nigra, 
and mean dopamine (DA) depletions of 98-99% in the caudate nucleus, putamen and
nucleus accumbens, and of 91-97% in frontal cortex, on the side of the lesion.
Noradrenaline (NA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels were also affected.
Behavioural tests conducted pre-operatively and at regular intervals during the 6
mths following surgery revealed persistent deficits in the lesioned marmosets as 
a group compared with sham-lesioned controls, although individual marmosets
sometimes recovered or showed no initial deficit on some tests. The main
behavioural effects of the lesion were as follows: (i) an increase in the time
spent with the head positioned ipsilaterally with respect to the rest of the
body; (ii) ipsilateral spontaneous and amphetamine-induced rotation, although
occasional intermittent periods of contralateral rotation and head biases were
also recorded; (iii) contralateral apomorphine-induced rotation; (iv) reduced
spontaneous activity; (v) ipsilateral hand preference on a conveyor belt task,
although hand skill (measured as percentage errors when the speed of the belt was
increased) was not affected; (vi) neglect of contralateral stimuli, both at the
conveyor belt where lesioned monkeys often failed to respond on trials on which
apple pieces arrived from the contralateral side, and on a test of sensorimotor
neglect in which adhesive labels were placed around both feet. Comparisons of
biochemical measures of the lesion with behavioural scores in individual monkeys 
suggest that DA depletions in excess of 95% are essential for long-term
behavioural deficits.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/115.3.825 
PMID: 1352726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4220. Biochem Pharmacol. 1992 May 28;43(10):2129-34.

Identification of the proximate peroxisome proliferator(s) derived from di
(2-ethylhexyl) adipate and species differences in response.

Cornu MC(1), Lhuguenot JC, Brady AM, Moore R, Elcombe CR.

Author information: 
(1)DÃ©partement de Biochimie et Toxicologie Alimentaires, ENS.BANA, Campus
Universitaire, Dijon, France.

Identification of the proximate peroxisome proliferator(s) derived from di
(2-ethylhexyl) adipate (DEHA) has been achieved using primary hepatocyte cultures
derived from different species and cyanide-insensitive fatty acyl CoA oxidase
(PCO) as a marker enzyme for peroxisome proliferation. In rat and mouse
hepatocytes, the parent compound (DEHA) had no effect on peroxisomal
beta-oxidation, but primary metabolites of DEHA, mono (2-ethylhexyl) adipate
(MEHA) and 2-ethylhexanol (EH), were approximately equipotent in PCO induction
(5-fold at 0.5 mM final concentration). The secondary metabolite of DEHA,
2-ethylhexanoic acid (EHA), was in both species the most potent peroxisome
proliferator (25- and 9-fold induction in mice and rats, respectively, at 1 mM
final concentration). At 2 mM final concentration a tertiary metabolite of DEHA, 
2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexan-1-oic acid, was less effective in mouse and rat
hepatocytes at inducing PCO (15- and 5-fold, respectively).
2-Ethyl-5-oxohexan-1-oic acid and 2-ethylhexan-1,6-dioic acid had little effect
(2-3-fold in both rat and mouse hepatocytes). Thus, EHA was identified as the
proximate peroxisome proliferator of DEHA and mouse hepatocytes were
approximately twice as sensitive as rat hepatocytes to peroxisome proliferation
due to MEHA, EH and EHA. We investigated further species differences in response 
to peroxisome proliferators by using guinea pig and marmoset primary hepatocyte
culture. None of the chemicals studied stimulated peroxisomal beta-oxidation in
these species up to a final concentration of 2 mM. Higher concentrations lead to 
cytotoxicity. This lack of sensitivity of guinea pig and marmoset hepatocytes is 
in agreement with previous studies with di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate metabolites, 
suggesting the absence of a threat of hepatocarcinogenic damage to these species 
and confirming that primary hepatocytes cultures are useful models for
investigating the phenomenon of peroxisome proliferation.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(92)90171-e 
PMID: 1599500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

