

422. Neurosci Res. 2020 Jun;155:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2019.09.005. Epub 2019 Oct
3.

Evaluating the efficacy of small molecules for neural differentiation of common
marmoset ESCs and iPSCs.

Yoshimatsu S(1), Nakamura M(2), Nakajima M(2), Nemoto A(2), Sato T(2), Sasaki
E(3), Shiozawa S(2), Okano H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Laboratory for Proteolytic Neuroscience, RIKEN Center for 
Brain Science, Wako City, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Wako City, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan; Department of Marmoset Biology and Medicine,
Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kanagawa, 210-0821, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center 
for Brain Science, Wako City, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address:
hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

The common marmoset (marmoset; Callithrix jacchus) harbors various desired
features as a non-human primate (NHP) model for neuroscience research. Recently, 
efforts have been made to induce neural cells in vitro from marmoset pluripotent 
stem cells (PSCs), including embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and induced pluripotent 
stem cells (iPSCs), which are characterized by their capacity to differentiate
into all cell types from the three germ layers. Successful generation of marmoset
neural cells is not only invaluable for understanding neural development and for 
modeling neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders, but is also necessary for
the phenotypic screening of genetically-modified marmosets. However, differences 
in the differentiation propensity among PSC lines hamper the applicability and
the reproducibility of differentiation methods. To overcome this limitation, we
evaluated the efficacy of small molecules for neural differentiation of marmoset 
ESCs (cjESCs) and iPSCs using multiple differentiation methods. By immunochemical
and transcriptomic analyses, we confirmed that our methods using the small
molecules are efficient for various differentiation protocols by either enhancing
the yield of a mixture of neural cells including both neurons and glial cells, or
a pure population of neurons. Collectively, our findings optimized in vitro
neural differentiation methods for marmoset PSCs, which would ultimately help
enhance the utility of the animal model in neuroscience.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. and Japan Neuroscience Society. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2019.09.005 
PMID: 31586586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. J Neurosci. 2019 Nov 13;39(46):9197-9206. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1786-19.2019.
Epub 2019 Oct 3.

Functional Localization of the Frontal Eye Fields in the Common Marmoset Using
Microstimulation.

Selvanayagam J(1)(2), Johnston KD(1)(3), Schaeffer DJ(2), Hayrynen LK(2),
Everling S(4)(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience.
(2)Center for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, and.
(4)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, severlin@uwo.ca.

The frontal eye field (FEF) is a critical region for the deployment of overt and 
covert spatial attention. Although investigations in the macaque continue to
provide insight into the neural underpinnings of the FEF, due to its location
within a sulcus, the macaque FEF is virtually inaccessible to
electrophysiological techniques such as high-density and laminar recordings. With
a largely lissencephalic cortex, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a
promising alternative primate model for studying FEF microcircuitry. Putative
homologies have been established with the macaque FEF on the basis of
cytoarchitecture and connectivity; however, physiological investigation in awake,
behaving marmosets is necessary to physiologically locate this area. Here, we
addressed this gap using intracortical microstimulation in a broad range of
frontal cortical areas in three adult marmosets (two males, one female). We
implanted marmosets with 96-channel Utah arrays and applied microstimulation
trains while they freely viewed video clips. We evoked short-latency fixed vector
saccades at low currents (<50 μA) in areas 45, 8aV, 8C, and 6DR. We observed a
topography of saccade direction and amplitude consistent with findings in
macaques and humans: small saccades in ventrolateral FEF and large saccades
combined with contralateral neck and shoulder movements encoded in dorsomedial
FEF. Our data provide compelling evidence supporting homology between marmoset
and macaque FEF and suggest that the marmoset is a useful primate model for
investigating FEF microcircuitry and its contributions to oculomotor and
cognitive functions.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The frontal eye field (FEF) is a
critical cortical region for overt and covert spatial attention. The
microcircuitry of this area remains poorly understood because in the macaque, the
most commonly used model, it is embedded within a sulcus and is inaccessible to
modern electrophysiological and imaging techniques. The common marmoset is a
promising alternative primate model due to its lissencephalic cortex and
potential for genetic manipulation. However, evidence for homologous cortical
areas in this model remains limited and unclear. Here, we applied
microstimulation in frontal cortical areas in marmosets to physiologically
identify FEF. Our results provide compelling evidence for an FEF in the marmoset 
and suggest that the marmoset is a useful model for investigating FEF
microcircuitry.

Copyright © 2019 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1786-19.2019 
PMCID: PMC6855691
PMID: 31582528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

