

4222. Vision Res. 1992 May;32(5):867-78.

The relationship between cone pigments and behavioural sensitivity in a New World
monkey (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Tov√©e MJ(1), Bowmaker JK, Mollon JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, England.

Microspectrophotometric measurements of visual pigments and behavioural
measurements of spectral sensitivity are reported for individual marmosets from 3
family groups. The sex differences and polymorphism that characterise the
long-wave cone pigments in this species are well reflected by variations in the
behavioural sensitivities. With one exception, the pattern of inheritance is
compatible with a genetic model in which the long-wave pigment is specified by a 
single polymorphic locus on the X-chromosome. Measurements are also reported for 
the spectral absorbance of the marmoset lens, and these are used to reconstruct
short-wave behavioural sensitivity from the microspectrophotometric measurements 
of the short-wave cones.

DOI: 10.1016/0042-6989(92)90029-i 
PMID: 1604855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4223. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1992 May;42(1):143-53.

Behavioural effects of anxiogenic agents in the common marmoset.

Carey GJ(1), Costall B, Domeney AM, Jones DN, Naylor RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, West Yorkshire, UK.

The effects of the anxiogenic agents FG7142, caffeine, pentylenetetrazole, and
amphetamine were assessed in two anxiety situations in the marmoset, first in an 
"anxiogenic" test based on the animal's response to a human observer standing in 
front of the home cage and second in a low-anxiety situation where animals
behaviour was videotaped in the absence of the observer. In response to the human
observer, the anxiolytic agent diazepam (0.1-2.5 mg/kg, SC) was shown to reduce
the intensity of behaviours such as postures, while increasing time spent on the 
cage front. In this test, with the exception of amphetamine, which only modified 
responding at stereotypic doses, the anxiogenic agents failed to modify marmoset 
behaviour. In contrast, in the low-anxiety filming protocol the anxiogenic agents
consistently reduced measures of locomotor activity while increasing the amount
of time animals spent in the nest box. It is suggested that the low-anxiety
protocol may be useful to evaluate drug-induced anxiogenesis and in studies of
withdrawal from chronic anxiolytic treatment or drugs of abuse.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(92)90458-r 
PMID: 1528937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

