

4223. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1992 May;42(1):143-53.

Behavioural effects of anxiogenic agents in the common marmoset.

Carey GJ(1), Costall B, Domeney AM, Jones DN, Naylor RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, West Yorkshire, UK.

The effects of the anxiogenic agents FG7142, caffeine, pentylenetetrazole, and
amphetamine were assessed in two anxiety situations in the marmoset, first in an 
"anxiogenic" test based on the animal's response to a human observer standing in 
front of the home cage and second in a low-anxiety situation where animals
behaviour was videotaped in the absence of the observer. In response to the human
observer, the anxiolytic agent diazepam (0.1-2.5 mg/kg, SC) was shown to reduce
the intensity of behaviours such as postures, while increasing time spent on the 
cage front. In this test, with the exception of amphetamine, which only modified 
responding at stereotypic doses, the anxiogenic agents failed to modify marmoset 
behaviour. In contrast, in the low-anxiety filming protocol the anxiogenic agents
consistently reduced measures of locomotor activity while increasing the amount
of time animals spent in the nest box. It is suggested that the low-anxiety
protocol may be useful to evaluate drug-induced anxiogenesis and in studies of
withdrawal from chronic anxiolytic treatment or drugs of abuse.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(92)90458-r 
PMID: 1528937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4224. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 May;88(1):97-103.

Gummivory and gut morphology in two sympatric callitrichids (Callithrix emiliae
and Saguinus fuscicollis weddelli) from western Brazilian Amazonia.

Ferrari SF(1), Martins ES.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi, Belém-PA, Brazil.

A comparative analysis of the gastrointestinal tracts of wild-caught marmosets,
Callithrix emiliae, and tamarins, Saguinus fuscicollis weddelli, was undertaken
in order to evaluate the degree of specialisation for digestion of plant
exudates. Compared to S.f. weddelli, C. emiliae exhibits a reduced small
intestine and a relatively large, compartmentalised caecum in which gum is
probably fermented. The apparent specialisation of the digestive tract in C.
emiliae correlates with that of its dentition, which is adapted for gouging the
bark of gum-producing plants. A similar degree of specialisation of the caecum is
predicted for other marmosets (Callithrix spp. and Cebuella pygmaea).

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330880108 
PMID: 1510116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

