

4224. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1992 May;88(1):97-103.

Gummivory and gut morphology in two sympatric callitrichids (Callithrix emiliae
and Saguinus fuscicollis weddelli) from western Brazilian Amazonia.

Ferrari SF(1), Martins ES.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi, Belém-PA, Brazil.

A comparative analysis of the gastrointestinal tracts of wild-caught marmosets,
Callithrix emiliae, and tamarins, Saguinus fuscicollis weddelli, was undertaken
in order to evaluate the degree of specialisation for digestion of plant
exudates. Compared to S.f. weddelli, C. emiliae exhibits a reduced small
intestine and a relatively large, compartmentalised caecum in which gum is
probably fermented. The apparent specialisation of the digestive tract in C.
emiliae correlates with that of its dentition, which is adapted for gouging the
bark of gum-producing plants. A similar degree of specialisation of the caecum is
predicted for other marmosets (Callithrix spp. and Cebuella pygmaea).

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330880108 
PMID: 1510116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4225. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1992 May;42(1):75-83.

Ondansetron and arecoline prevent scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits in the
marmoset.

Carey GJ(1), Costall B, Domeney AM, Gerrard PA, Jones DN, Naylor RJ, Tyers MB.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, UK.

The cognitive-enhancing potential of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) selective
5-HT3 receptor antagonist, ondansetron, was investigated in a model of cognitive 
impairment induced by the muscarinic receptor antagonist, scopolamine. For this
purpose, marmosets were trained in an object discrimination task utilizing the
Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. Administration of scopolamine (0.01-0.04 mg/kg,
SC) caused a dose-dependent impairment in the acquisition of the object
discrimination task in that marmosets required more trials to reach criterion,
made more errors, and took longer to choose the objects. Administration of
arecoline (0.06-0.1 mg/kg, SC) or
1,2,3,9-tetrahydro-9-methyl-3-[(2-methyl-1H-imidazol-
1-yl)methyl]-4H-carbazol-4-one,HCl.2H2O (ondansetron) (0.1-1 micrograms/kg, SC)
prevented the scopolamine-induced impairment in task acquisition in that the
performance of marmosets was indistinguishable from that of saline-treated
animals and was significantly better than that following scopolamine/saline. From
these studies, we conclude that ondansetron prevents impairment in the cognitive 
performance of marmosets induced by administration of scopolamine.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(92)90449-p 
PMID: 1388279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

