

4225. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1992 May;42(1):75-83.

Ondansetron and arecoline prevent scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits in the
marmoset.

Carey GJ(1), Costall B, Domeney AM, Gerrard PA, Jones DN, Naylor RJ, Tyers MB.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, UK.

The cognitive-enhancing potential of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) selective
5-HT3 receptor antagonist, ondansetron, was investigated in a model of cognitive 
impairment induced by the muscarinic receptor antagonist, scopolamine. For this
purpose, marmosets were trained in an object discrimination task utilizing the
Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. Administration of scopolamine (0.01-0.04 mg/kg,
SC) caused a dose-dependent impairment in the acquisition of the object
discrimination task in that marmosets required more trials to reach criterion,
made more errors, and took longer to choose the objects. Administration of
arecoline (0.06-0.1 mg/kg, SC) or
1,2,3,9-tetrahydro-9-methyl-3-[(2-methyl-1H-imidazol-
1-yl)methyl]-4H-carbazol-4-one,HCl.2H2O (ondansetron) (0.1-1 micrograms/kg, SC)
prevented the scopolamine-induced impairment in task acquisition in that the
performance of marmosets was indistinguishable from that of saline-treated
animals and was significantly better than that following scopolamine/saline. From
these studies, we conclude that ondansetron prevents impairment in the cognitive 
performance of marmosets induced by administration of scopolamine.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(92)90449-p 
PMID: 1388279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4226. J Comp Neurol. 1992 May 1;319(1):123-40.

The somatosensory thalamus of monkeys: cortical connections and a redefinition of
nuclei in marmosets.

Krubitzer LA(1), Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240.

Thalamic connections of three subdivisions of somatosensory cortex in marmosets
were determined by placing wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish
peroxidase and fluorescent dyes as tracers into electrophysiologically identified
sites in S-I (area 3b), S-II, and the parietal ventral area, PV. The relation of 
the resulting patterns of transported label to the cytoarchitecture and
cytochrome oxidase architecture of the thalamus lead to three major conclusions. 
1) The region traditionally described as the ventroposterior nucleus (VP) is a
composite of VP proper and parts of the ventroposterior inferior nucleus (VPi).
Much of the VP region consists of groups of densely stained, closely packed
neurons that project to S-I. VPi includes a ventral oval of pale, less densely
packed neurons and finger-like protrusions that extend into VP proper and
separate clusters of VP neurons related to different body parts. Neurons in both 
parts of VPi project to S-II rather than S-I. Connection patterns indicate that
the proper and the embedded parts of VPi combine to form a body representation
paralleling that in VP. 2) VPi also provides the major thalamic input into PV. 3)
In architecture, location, and cortical connections, the region traditionally
described as the anterior pulvinar (AP) of monkeys resembles the medial posterior
nucleus, Pom, of other mammals and we propose that all or most of AP is
homologous to Pom. AP caps VP dorsomedially, has neurons that are moderately
dense in Nissl staining, and reacts moderately in CO preparations. AP neurons
project to S-I, S-II, and PV in somatotopic patterns.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903190111 
PMID: 1375605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

