

4226. J Comp Neurol. 1992 May 1;319(1):123-40.

The somatosensory thalamus of monkeys: cortical connections and a redefinition of
nuclei in marmosets.

Krubitzer LA(1), Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240.

Thalamic connections of three subdivisions of somatosensory cortex in marmosets
were determined by placing wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish
peroxidase and fluorescent dyes as tracers into electrophysiologically identified
sites in S-I (area 3b), S-II, and the parietal ventral area, PV. The relation of 
the resulting patterns of transported label to the cytoarchitecture and
cytochrome oxidase architecture of the thalamus lead to three major conclusions. 
1) The region traditionally described as the ventroposterior nucleus (VP) is a
composite of VP proper and parts of the ventroposterior inferior nucleus (VPi).
Much of the VP region consists of groups of densely stained, closely packed
neurons that project to S-I. VPi includes a ventral oval of pale, less densely
packed neurons and finger-like protrusions that extend into VP proper and
separate clusters of VP neurons related to different body parts. Neurons in both 
parts of VPi project to S-II rather than S-I. Connection patterns indicate that
the proper and the embedded parts of VPi combine to form a body representation
paralleling that in VP. 2) VPi also provides the major thalamic input into PV. 3)
In architecture, location, and cortical connections, the region traditionally
described as the anterior pulvinar (AP) of monkeys resembles the medial posterior
nucleus, Pom, of other mammals and we propose that all or most of AP is
homologous to Pom. AP caps VP dorsomedially, has neurons that are moderately
dense in Nissl staining, and reacts moderately in CO preparations. AP neurons
project to S-I, S-II, and PV in somatotopic patterns.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903190111 
PMID: 1375605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4227. Mutat Res. 1992 May;282(1):19-23.

Sister-chromatid exchange rates in XX and XY cells of ten chimeric Callithrix
jacchus individuals.

Bigatti P(1), Lamberti L, Oberto G, Ardito G.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Animale, Universit√† di Torino, Italy.

In order to ascertain whether or not sister-chromatid exchange (SCE) differs in
relation to sex, SCE rates in XX and XY cells from 10 specimens of marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) were examined. The choice of this primate is particularly
suitable for three reasons: most individuals have a chimeric constitution, the X 
chromosome is quite large and the Y chromosome is particularly small. Therefore, 
the influence of possible differences in their exposure to the external
environment can be eliminated. The results obtained did not reveal any
significant difference between SCE rates in male and female cells in any of the
examined individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-7992(92)90068-s 
PMID: 1374152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

