

4227. Mutat Res. 1992 May;282(1):19-23.

Sister-chromatid exchange rates in XX and XY cells of ten chimeric Callithrix
jacchus individuals.

Bigatti P(1), Lamberti L, Oberto G, Ardito G.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Animale, Università di Torino, Italy.

In order to ascertain whether or not sister-chromatid exchange (SCE) differs in
relation to sex, SCE rates in XX and XY cells from 10 specimens of marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) were examined. The choice of this primate is particularly
suitable for three reasons: most individuals have a chimeric constitution, the X 
chromosome is quite large and the Y chromosome is particularly small. Therefore, 
the influence of possible differences in their exposure to the external
environment can be eliminated. The results obtained did not reveal any
significant difference between SCE rates in male and female cells in any of the
examined individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-7992(92)90068-s 
PMID: 1374152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4228. Blood Press. 1992 May;1(1):50-6.

Raised plasma concentrations of endothelin-1 and -3 in marmosets with acute
aortic stenosis: no relation to the renin-angiotensin system.

Gustafsson D(1), Elg M, Hedner T, Johnsson E, Sohtell M, Svensson L, Fyhrquist F.

Author information: 
(1)Astra-Hässle Preclinical Research Laboratories, Mölndal, Sweden.

Plasma levels of endothelin (ET), plasma renin activity (PRA) and angiotensin II 
(Ang II) were measured in anaesthetized marmosets exposed to acute aortic
stenosis proximal to the renal arteries. In vehicle experiments, ET rose from 5
+/- 2 to 38 +/- 4 pg ml-1, PRA from 5 +/- 2 to 99 +/- 21 ng ml-1 h-1 and Ang II
from 21 +/- 4 to 213 +/- 76 pg ml-1. Administration of renin inhibitor and
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor reduced PRA and Ang II to control levels,
while the plasma levels of ET increased further (51 +/- 10 and 71 +/- 16 pg ml-1,
respectively). During aortic stenosis the two isoforms ET-1 and ET-3 appeared in 
the circulation, while in conscious control animals only ET-1 was found. It is
concluded that the increased plasma levels of ET in our primate model could not
be ascribed to the increased circulating levels of PRA and Ang II.

DOI: 10.3109/08037059209065124 
PMID: 1345144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

