

423. J Neurosci. 2019 Nov 13;39(46):9197-9206. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1786-19.2019.
Epub 2019 Oct 3.

Functional Localization of the Frontal Eye Fields in the Common Marmoset Using
Microstimulation.

Selvanayagam J(1)(2), Johnston KD(1)(3), Schaeffer DJ(2), Hayrynen LK(2),
Everling S(4)(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience.
(2)Center for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, and.
(4)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, severlin@uwo.ca.

The frontal eye field (FEF) is a critical region for the deployment of overt and 
covert spatial attention. Although investigations in the macaque continue to
provide insight into the neural underpinnings of the FEF, due to its location
within a sulcus, the macaque FEF is virtually inaccessible to
electrophysiological techniques such as high-density and laminar recordings. With
a largely lissencephalic cortex, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a
promising alternative primate model for studying FEF microcircuitry. Putative
homologies have been established with the macaque FEF on the basis of
cytoarchitecture and connectivity; however, physiological investigation in awake,
behaving marmosets is necessary to physiologically locate this area. Here, we
addressed this gap using intracortical microstimulation in a broad range of
frontal cortical areas in three adult marmosets (two males, one female). We
implanted marmosets with 96-channel Utah arrays and applied microstimulation
trains while they freely viewed video clips. We evoked short-latency fixed vector
saccades at low currents (<50 μA) in areas 45, 8aV, 8C, and 6DR. We observed a
topography of saccade direction and amplitude consistent with findings in
macaques and humans: small saccades in ventrolateral FEF and large saccades
combined with contralateral neck and shoulder movements encoded in dorsomedial
FEF. Our data provide compelling evidence supporting homology between marmoset
and macaque FEF and suggest that the marmoset is a useful primate model for
investigating FEF microcircuitry and its contributions to oculomotor and
cognitive functions.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The frontal eye field (FEF) is a
critical cortical region for overt and covert spatial attention. The
microcircuitry of this area remains poorly understood because in the macaque, the
most commonly used model, it is embedded within a sulcus and is inaccessible to
modern electrophysiological and imaging techniques. The common marmoset is a
promising alternative primate model due to its lissencephalic cortex and
potential for genetic manipulation. However, evidence for homologous cortical
areas in this model remains limited and unclear. Here, we applied
microstimulation in frontal cortical areas in marmosets to physiologically
identify FEF. Our results provide compelling evidence for an FEF in the marmoset 
and suggest that the marmoset is a useful model for investigating FEF
microcircuitry.

Copyright © 2019 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1786-19.2019 
PMCID: PMC6855691
PMID: 31582528  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Vis Neurosci. 2019 Jun 18;36:E009. doi: 10.1017/S0952523819000087.

Melanopsin and calbindin immunoreactivity in the inner retina of humans and
marmosets.

Chandra AJ(1)(2), Lee SCS(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute, Discipline of Clinical Ophthalmology, Sydney Medical
School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia.

In primate retina, the calcium-binding protein calbindin is expressed by a
variety of neurons including cones, bipolar cells, and amacrine cells but it is
not known which type(s) of cell express calbindin in the ganglion cell layer. The
present study aimed to identify calbindin-positive cell type(s) in the amacrine
and ganglion cell layer of human and marmoset retina using immunohistochemical
markers for ganglion cells (RBPMS and melanopsin) and cholinergic amacrine (ChAT)
cells. Intracellular injections following immunolabeling was used to reveal the
morphology of calbindin-positive cells. In human retina, calbindin-labeled cells 
in the ganglion cell layer were identified as inner and outer stratifying
melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells, and ON ChAT (starburst amacrine) cells. In 
marmoset, calbindin immunoreactivity in the ganglion cell layer was absent from
ganglion cells but present in ON ChAT cells. In the inner nuclear layer of human 
retina, calbindin was found in melanopsin-expressing displaced ganglion cells and
in at least two populations of amacrine cells including about a quarter of the
OFF ChAT cells. In marmoset, a very low proportion of OFF ChAT cells was
calbindin-positive. These results suggest that in both species there may be two
types of OFF ChAT cells. Consistent with previous studies, the ratio of ON to OFF
ChAT cells was about 70 to 30 in human and 30 to 70 in marmoset. Our results show
that there are species-related differences between different primates with
respect to the expression of calbindin.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523819000087 
PMID: 31581958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

