

4230. Vet Rec. 1992 Apr 18;130(16):359-60.

Infection of a marmoset with the BSE agent.

Morris TH.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.130.16.359 
PMID: 1595182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4231. Mech Ageing Dev. 1992 Apr;63(2):183-92.

Histochemical characterization of the aging microvasculature in the human and
other mammalian and non-mammalian vertebrates by the periodic acid-Schiff
reaction.

Sobin SS(1), Bernick S, Ballard KW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Southern California
Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, American Heart Association Greater Los
Angeles Affiliate.

Prior histochemical studies with the periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) reaction have
shown altered biochemical composition in a limited part of the microvasculature
(MV) in aging in two species of laboratory animals. We therefore studied, with
the PAS reaction, all the components of the MV in multiple tissues from various
immature, adult and aged mammals, including human, and immature and aged
nonmammalian vertebrates. We now demonstrate that there is an altered biochemical
composition of capillaries, arterioles and venules in various tissues with aging.
These are first detectable somewhat beyond half the life-span in man (greater
than 45 years), marmoset (5 years) and dog (8 years) and seen in old fish,
reptiles and birds. The capillary wall is increasingly PAS+; in arterioles there 
are focal PAS+ areas in the media which increase in size and number with age and 
become hyalinized masses. The non-muscular venules are increasingly PAS+
apparently due to a polysaccharide staining of connective tissue elements. These 
histochemical changes in the MV with aging are in the extracellular matrix and
appear to be a specific manifestation of aging in vertebrates. The consequences
of such changes in MV aging may be important physiologically.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(92)90064-k 
PMID: 1602846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

