

4232. Biol Reprod. 1992 Apr;46(4):523-34.

Analysis of the contraceptive potential of antibodies against native and
deglycosylated porcine ZP3 in vivo and in vitro.

Paterson M(1), Koothan PT, Morris KD, O'Byrne KT, Braude P, Williams A, Aitken
RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

We have undertaken a comparative analysis of the contraceptive activity of
antibodies directed against the porcine sperm receptor zona pellucida antigen
(ZP3) and its Mr = 32,000 polypeptide core (DGZP-32). The strategies employed for
this analysis included the induction of active immunity in a primate, the common 
marmoset, and an in vitro fertilization protocol involving the use of viable
human ova. In both experimental situations, antibodies against ZP3 were shown to 
exhibit contraceptive activity, leading respectively to the induction of
long-term infertility in the primate model and to the complete inhibition of
human fertilization in vitro. The in vivo studies also revealed that the
induction of high titer antibodies against ZP3 was inevitably associated with the
appearance of an ovarian pathology characterized by the progressive depletion of 
the primordial follicle pool within one to two years. This side effect could not 
be alleviated by the use of DGZP-32 as antigen since the induction of immunity
against this polypeptide was also associated with the eventual appearance of an
ovarian pathology identical to that observed with ZP3. Furthermore, the DGZP-32
peptide was less effective than ZP3 in inducing the formation of antibodies
capable of inhibiting the fertilization of human ova in vitro. We conclude that
significant problems remain with the use of deglycosylated zona peptides for the 
development of contraceptive vaccines and that their potential will not be
realized until the epitopes responsible for the induction of infertility and the 
primordial follicle depletion have been identified and segregated.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod46.4.523 
PMID: 1576251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4233. Int J Androl. 1992 Apr;15(2):114-26.

Passive immunization against prostatic 'inhibin' peptide as a male contraceptive.

Vanage GR(1), Garde SV, Sheth AR, Gopalkrishnan K.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

Passive immunization of adult male hamsters for 12 weeks against peptide
(As-PIP), a sperm coating antigen, resulted in selective elevation of the blood
levels of FSH, impairment of spermatogenesis, and complete infertility when males
were mated with normal cycling females. Passive immunization of male marmosets
with As-PIP for 8 weeks was also effective and was reversible, without causing
any obvious change in mating behaviour. These preliminary studies in hamsters and
marmosets indicate that antibodies to a prostatic 'inhibin' peptide represent a
promising new approach to male contraception.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1992.tb01120.x 
PMID: 1572726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

