

4236. Lab Anim. 1992 Apr;26(2):80-7.

Spontaneous inclusion body hepatitis in young tamarins: I. Morphological study.

Stiglmair-Herb MT(1), Scheid R, HÃ¤nichen T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Veterinary Pathology, Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich,
Germany.

Over a period of 4 years approximately 60% of the new born and juvenile animals
in a breeding colony of tamarins (Saguinus fuscicollis) died a sudden death.
Histological examination at necropsy revealed interstitial hepatitis in 22 of the
30 young animals of the present study. The hepatocytes contained intranuclear
inclusion bodies in 12 of the 22 cases. Upon ultrastructural examination,
tubulovesicular structures and amorphous material were found in the nuclei. The
endoplasmic reticulum had proliferated and was closely associated with undulating
curved membranes. These morphological alterations resemble those reported in
chimpanzees experimentally infected with NANB hepatitis viruses.

DOI: 10.1258/002367792780745913 
PMID: 1518281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4237. Int J Neurosci. 1992 Apr;63(3-4):163-77.

The mossy fiber terminals in the hippocampal formation of Callithrix jacchus:
comparative and evolutionary considerations.

Gozzo S(1), Perretta G.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Medicina Sperimentale, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche (CNR),
Roma, Italia.

The distribution of mossy fiber terminals in the regio inferior of the
hippocampus of Callithrix jacchus was studied by means of Timm's method. The
topographic distribution of Timm-positive zones in the hilus, in the
suprapyramidal and intrapyramidal areas of the CA3 subfield is described. A
Timm-positive reaction in intragranular strips and supragranular zones, the
presence of Timm-negative zones in the infragranular border of the fascia dentata
were found in this species. A comparison between mossy fiber distribution in
Callithrix jacchus and that in human was carried out in an attempt to identify
interspecies differences in the mossy fiber system in the hippocampus of
primates. The hypothesis of a possible functional relevance of the supra- and
intrapyramidal mossy fiber terminals on the control of hippocampal pyramidal
neurons is expressed.

DOI: 10.3109/00207459208987192 
PMID: 1284794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

