

424. Vis Neurosci. 2019 Jun 18;36:E009. doi: 10.1017/S0952523819000087.

Melanopsin and calbindin immunoreactivity in the inner retina of humans and
marmosets.

Chandra AJ(1)(2), Lee SCS(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute, Discipline of Clinical Ophthalmology, Sydney Medical
School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia.

In primate retina, the calcium-binding protein calbindin is expressed by a
variety of neurons including cones, bipolar cells, and amacrine cells but it is
not known which type(s) of cell express calbindin in the ganglion cell layer. The
present study aimed to identify calbindin-positive cell type(s) in the amacrine
and ganglion cell layer of human and marmoset retina using immunohistochemical
markers for ganglion cells (RBPMS and melanopsin) and cholinergic amacrine (ChAT)
cells. Intracellular injections following immunolabeling was used to reveal the
morphology of calbindin-positive cells. In human retina, calbindin-labeled cells 
in the ganglion cell layer were identified as inner and outer stratifying
melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells, and ON ChAT (starburst amacrine) cells. In 
marmoset, calbindin immunoreactivity in the ganglion cell layer was absent from
ganglion cells but present in ON ChAT cells. In the inner nuclear layer of human 
retina, calbindin was found in melanopsin-expressing displaced ganglion cells and
in at least two populations of amacrine cells including about a quarter of the
OFF ChAT cells. In marmoset, a very low proportion of OFF ChAT cells was
calbindin-positive. These results suggest that in both species there may be two
types of OFF ChAT cells. Consistent with previous studies, the ratio of ON to OFF
ChAT cells was about 70 to 30 in human and 30 to 70 in marmoset. Our results show
that there are species-related differences between different primates with
respect to the expression of calbindin.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523819000087 
PMID: 31581958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2019 Dec;371(3):692-702. doi: 10.1124/jpet.119.260869. Epub
2019 Oct 2.

A Novel Phosphodiesterase 1 Inhibitor DSR-141562 Exhibits Efficacies in Animal
Models for Positive, Negative, and Cognitive Symptoms Associated with
Schizophrenia.

Enomoto T(1), Tatara A(2), Goda M(2), Nishizato Y(2), Nishigori K(2), Kitamura
A(2), Kamada M(2), Taga S(2), Hashimoto T(2), Ikeda K(2), Fujii Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Drug Research Division, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan
takeshi-enomoto@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(2)Drug Research Division, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

In our drug discovery program, we identified a novel orally available and
brain-penetrant phosphodiesterase (PDE) 1 inhibitor,
3-methyl-7-(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-2-{[trans-4-(trifluoromethyl)cyclohexyl]-me
thoxy}imidazo[5,1-f][1,2,4]triazin-4(3H)-one (DSR-141562). In the present study, 
we characterized the preclinical profile of DSR-141562. This compound has
preferential selectivity for predominantly brain-expressed PDE1B over other PDE1 
family members, and high selectivity for the PDE1 family over other PDE families 
and 65 other tested biologic targets. Oral administration of DSR-141562 at 10
mg/kg slightly elevated the cGMP concentration, and it potently enhanced the
increase of cGMP induced by a dopamine D1 receptor agonist in mouse brains. The
cGMP level in monkey cerebrospinal fluid was also elevated after treatment with
DSR-141562 at 30 and 100 mg/kg and could be used as a translational biomarker.
Since PDE1B is believed to regulate dopaminergic and glutamatergic signal
transduction, we evaluated the effects of this compound using
schizophrenia-related behavioral assays. DSR-141562 at 3-30 mg/kg potently
inhibited methamphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats, while it had
only minimal effects on the spontaneous locomotor activity. Furthermore,
DSR-141562 at 1-100 mg/kg did not induce any signs of catalepsy in rats.
DSR-141562 at 0.3-3 mg/kg reversed social interaction and novel object
recognition deficits induced by repeated treatment with an N-methyl-D-aspartate
receptor antagonist, phencyclidine, in mice and rats, respectively. In common
marmosets, DSR-141562 at 3 and 30 mg/kg improved the performance in object
retrieval with detour tasks. These results suggest that DSR-141562 is a
therapeutic candidate for positive, negative, and cognitive symptoms in
schizophrenia. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This is the first paper showing that a
phosphodiesterase 1 inhibitor is efficacious in animal models for positive and
negative symptoms associated with schizophrenia. Furthermore, we demonstrated
that this compound improved cognitive function in the common marmoset, a nonhuman
primate.

Copyright © 2019 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.119.260869 
PMID: 31578257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

