

4243. J Periodontal Res. 1992 Mar;27(2):101-10.

Immunohistochemical localization of collagenous components in healthy periodontal
tissues of the rat and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). I. Distribution of collagen
types I and III.

Romanos GE(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Wachtel HC, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental School North, Freie Universität Berlin,
FRG.

The distribution of collagen types I and III was demonstrated in healthy
periodontal tissues of the rat and marmoset using immunofluorescent localization 
after decalcification of the maxillae and mandiblae in 0.2 N HCl. An intense
fluorescence in the alveolar bone and cementum matrix, as well as in the soft
periodontal tissue, was demonstrated with anti-collagen type I antibodies. In the
gingival connective tissue and in the periodontal ligament thick fibers of
collagen type I could be observed. The fluorescent reaction in the rat
periodontal ligament was not strong in comparison to the marmoset periodontal
ligament. Sharpey's fibers, inserting into the cementum and alveolar bone, were
also stained. On the other hand, collagen type III could not be demonstrated in
the hard periodontal tissues, but could be in the bone marrow stroma and the
incremental lines as well as around the Sharpey's fibers of the cementum, in
accordance to previous studies. In the gingival connective tissue a strong
staining was evident, especially near the basement membrane. The periodontal
ligament showed an intense fluorescence that was, in some areas, continuous with 
Sharpey's fibers inserting into the cementum. The distribution of collagen types 
I and III was demonstrated with immunohistochemical techniques in the rat and
marmoset periodontium. These results provide necessary information on healthy
tissues that will be required for future studies on the effects of pathological, 
reparative and regenerative processes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0765.1992.tb01811.x 
PMID: 1532200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4244. Lipids. 1992 Mar;27(3):169-76.

The effect of dietary supplementation with eicosapentaenoic acid on the
phospholipid and fatty acid composition of erythrocytes of marmoset.

Gibson RA(1), Neumann MA, Burnard SL, Rinaldi JA, Patten GS, McMurchie EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park, Australia.

Adult male marmoset monkeys were fed eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5n-3) as the ethyl
ester in diets containing either 32% (reference diet, no added cholesterol) or 7%
(atherogenic diet with 0.2% added cholesterol) linoleic acid (18:2n-6) for 30 wk.
No changes were seen in the level of phosphatidylcholine (PC) or
phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) but minor changes were observed in both the
sphingomyelin (SPM) and phosphatidylinositol plus phosphatidylserine (PI+PS)
fractions of erythrocyte lipids. The extent of total n-3 fatty acid incorporation
into membrane lipids was higher in atherogenic diets
(polyunsaturated/monounsaturated/saturated (P/M/S) ratio 0.2:0.6:1.0) than
reference diets (P/M/S ratio 1:1:1) and this was true for both PE (33.4 +/- 1.0% 
vs 24.3 +/- 1.1%) and PC (9.3 +/- 0.5% vs 4.9 +/- 0.3%). Although suitable
controls for cholesterol effects were not included in the study, earlier results 
obtained with marmosets lead us to believe such effects were probably small.
Regardless of basic diet (atherogenic, reference), 20:5n-3 was preferentially
incorporated into PE (10.8 +/- 0.2%, 6.0 +/- 0.02%) while smaller amounts were
incorporated into PC (6.9 +/- 0.4%, 3.2 +/- 0.2%). The major n-3 polyunsaturated 
fatty acid found in PE in response to dietary 20:5n-3 was the elongation
metabolite 22:5n-3 in both the atherogenic (17.7 +/- 0.7%) and reference (14.3
+/- 1.0%) dietary groups; 22:6n-3 levels were less affected by diet (4.7 +/- 0.3%
and 3.9 +/- 0.2%, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02536173 
PMID: 1522760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

