

425. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2019 Dec;371(3):692-702. doi: 10.1124/jpet.119.260869. Epub
2019 Oct 2.

A Novel Phosphodiesterase 1 Inhibitor DSR-141562 Exhibits Efficacies in Animal
Models for Positive, Negative, and Cognitive Symptoms Associated with
Schizophrenia.

Enomoto T(1), Tatara A(2), Goda M(2), Nishizato Y(2), Nishigori K(2), Kitamura
A(2), Kamada M(2), Taga S(2), Hashimoto T(2), Ikeda K(2), Fujii Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Drug Research Division, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan
takeshi-enomoto@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(2)Drug Research Division, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

In our drug discovery program, we identified a novel orally available and
brain-penetrant phosphodiesterase (PDE) 1 inhibitor,
3-methyl-7-(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-2-{[trans-4-(trifluoromethyl)cyclohexyl]-me
thoxy}imidazo[5,1-f][1,2,4]triazin-4(3H)-one (DSR-141562). In the present study, 
we characterized the preclinical profile of DSR-141562. This compound has
preferential selectivity for predominantly brain-expressed PDE1B over other PDE1 
family members, and high selectivity for the PDE1 family over other PDE families 
and 65 other tested biologic targets. Oral administration of DSR-141562 at 10
mg/kg slightly elevated the cGMP concentration, and it potently enhanced the
increase of cGMP induced by a dopamine D1 receptor agonist in mouse brains. The
cGMP level in monkey cerebrospinal fluid was also elevated after treatment with
DSR-141562 at 30 and 100 mg/kg and could be used as a translational biomarker.
Since PDE1B is believed to regulate dopaminergic and glutamatergic signal
transduction, we evaluated the effects of this compound using
schizophrenia-related behavioral assays. DSR-141562 at 3-30 mg/kg potently
inhibited methamphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in rats, while it had
only minimal effects on the spontaneous locomotor activity. Furthermore,
DSR-141562 at 1-100 mg/kg did not induce any signs of catalepsy in rats.
DSR-141562 at 0.3-3 mg/kg reversed social interaction and novel object
recognition deficits induced by repeated treatment with an N-methyl-D-aspartate
receptor antagonist, phencyclidine, in mice and rats, respectively. In common
marmosets, DSR-141562 at 3 and 30 mg/kg improved the performance in object
retrieval with detour tasks. These results suggest that DSR-141562 is a
therapeutic candidate for positive, negative, and cognitive symptoms in
schizophrenia. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This is the first paper showing that a
phosphodiesterase 1 inhibitor is efficacious in animal models for positive and
negative symptoms associated with schizophrenia. Furthermore, we demonstrated
that this compound improved cognitive function in the common marmoset, a nonhuman
primate.

Copyright © 2019 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.119.260869 
PMID: 31578257  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Am J Primatol. 2019 Sep;81(9):e23057. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23057. Epub 2019 Sep 30.

Baseline cortisol levels and social behavior differ as a function of handedness
in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Vaughan E(1), Le A(1), Casey M(2), Workman KP(2), Lacreuse A(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, Massachusetts.
(2)Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
Massachusetts.
(3)Center for Neuroendocrine Studies, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
Massachusetts.

Population hand preferences are rare in nonhuman primates, but individual hand
preferences are consistent over a lifetime and considered to reflect an
individual's preference to use a particular hemisphere when engaged in a specific
task. Previous findings in marmosets have indicated that left-handed individuals 
tend to be more fearful than their right-handed counterparts. Based on these
findings, we tested the hypotheses that left-handed marmosets are (a) more
reactive to a social stressor and (b) are slower than right-handed marmosets in
acquiring a reversal learning task. We examined the hand preference of 27 male
and female marmosets (ages of 4-7 years old) previously tested in a social
separation task and a reversal learning task. Hand preference was determined via 
a simple reaching task. In the social separation task, monkeys were separated
from their partner and the colony for a single 7-hr session. Urinary cortisol
levels and behavior were assessed at baseline, during the separation and 24 hr
postseparation. Hand preferences were equally distributed between left (n = 10), 
right-handed (n = 10), and ambidextrous (n = 7) individuals. The separation phase
was associated with an increase in cortisol levels and behavioral changes that
were similar across handedness groups. However, cortisol levels at baseline were 
positively correlated with right-handedness, and this relationship was stronger
in females than in males. In addition, the occurrence of social behaviors (pre-
and postseparation) was positively correlated with right-handedness in both
sexes. Baseline cortisol levels did not correlate significantly with social
behavior. Acquisition of the reversals was poorer in females than males but did
not differ as a function of handedness. We conclude that (a) both stress
reactivity and cognitive flexibility are similar across handedness groups and (b)
left-handers exhibit less social behavior and have lower basal cortisol levels
than ambidextrous and right-handed subjects. The underlying causes for these
differences remain to be established.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23057 
PMID: 31566763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

