

4252. Am J Primatol. 1992;26(2):109-118. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350260205.

The care of infants in a wild marmoset (Callithrix flaviceps) group.

Ferrari SF(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University College London, United Kingdom.
(2)Anthropologisches Institut der Universität Zürich-Irchel, Switzerland.

The behavior of a free-ranging group of buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix
flaviceps) was observed in detail over a five-month period following the birth of
twins. Infant care, principally carrying and food sharing, were analyzed and the 
variation both between age-sex classes and through time investigated. Potentially
reproductive males exhibited a relatively high degree of interest in the infants 
during the first week following birth, but their provision of care was otherwise 
little different from that of other group members. The data are considered in
relation to the factors stimulating care-giving behavior and possible differences
between callitrichid genera are discussed.

Copyright © 1992 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350260205 
PMID: 31948164 


4253. Am J Primatol. 1992;26(3):167-178. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350260303.

Reversible, long-term inhibition of ovulation with a gonadotropin-releasing
hormone antagonist in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK(1), Lightman SL(2), Cottingham PG(1), Shaw HJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology,
Zoological Society of London.
(2)Medical Unit, Charing Cross and Westminster Medical School, London, United
Kingdom.

The effects of weekly injections of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
antagonist (GnRHa) ([N-acetyl-DβNal1-D-pCl-Phe2-D-Phe3-D-Arg6-Phe7-Arg8D-Ala10]
NH2 GnRH) on pituitary and ovarian function were examined in the marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus. In experiment 1, five cyclic females were given weekly
injections of vehicle (50% propylene glycol in saline) for 6 weeks followed by
GnRHa for 20 weeks, animals receiving either 200 μg GnRHa/injection (n = 2) or 67
μg GnRHa/injection (n = 3) for 10 weeks, after which the treatment was reversed. 
Bioactive luteinizing hormone (LH) and progesterone (Po) were measured in blood
samples (0.2-0.4 ml) collected twice weekly until at least 8 weeks after the last
GnRHa injection. GnRHa treatment, timed to begin in the midluteal phase, caused a
rapid decline in LH and Po and luteal regression after a single injection (both
doses). Po levels were consistently low (<10 ng/ml), and ovulation was inhibited 
throughout 200 μg treatment in all animals. Short periods of elevated Po (>10
ng/ml) were, however, occasionally seen during 67 μg treatment, indicating
incomplete ovarian suppression. Mean LH levels were significantly lower during
GnRHa treatment compared with the period of vehicle injection (all animals 200
μg; three animals 67 μg), and there were significant differences in LH levels
between GnRHa treatments (200 μg vs. 67 μg) in four animals. Four animals resumed
normal ovarian cycles after the end of GnRHa treatment (15/16 days, three
animals; 59 days, one animal); the fifth animal died of unknown causes 32 days
after the last GnRHa injection. In a second experiment, pituitary responsiveness 
to exogenous GnRH was tested 1 day after a single injection of vehicle or
antagonist (200 or 67 μg). Measurement of bioactive LH indicated that pituitary
response to 200 ng native GnRH was significantly suppressed in animals receiving 
the antagonist, the degree of suppression being dose related. A third experiment 
examined the effect of four weekly injections of 200 μg GnRHa on follicular size 
and granulosa cell responsiveness to human follicle-stimulating hormone (hFSH) in
vitro. Follicular development beyond 1 mm was inhibited by GnRHa treatment
(preovulatory follicles normally 2-4 mm) although granulosa cell responsiveness
to FSH during 48 hr of culture was not impaired. These results suggest that the
GnRHa-induced suppression of follicular development and ovulation was mediated
primarily by an inhibition of pituitary gonadotropin secretion and not by a
direct action at the level of the ovary.

Copyright © 1992 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350260303 
PMID: 31948156 

