

4254. J Psychopharmacol. 1992 Jan;6(1):140. doi: 10.1177/0269881192006001104.

Place Preference Behaviour in the Common Marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus): Carey GJ,
Domeney AM, Costall B, Naylor RJ, Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, The
School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, Bradford, West Yorkshire, BD7 1DP.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1177/0269881192006001104 
PMID: 22291332 


4255. Gut. 1992 Jan;33(1):48-54.

Mr 40,000 human colonic epithelial protein expression in colonic mucosa and
presence of circulating anti-Mr 40,000 antibodies in cotton top tamarins with
spontaneous colitis.

Das KM(1), Vecchi M, Squillante L, Dasgupta A, Henke M, Clapp N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, UMDNJ Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New
Brunswick 08903.

Saguinus oedipus, Callithrix jacchus, and Saguinus fuscicollis are three species 
of New World monkeys which develop a form of colitis that is similar to human
ulcerative colitis. Only S oedipus, however, develop colon cancer. We examined
intestinal tissues from these animals for the presence of an antigen cross
reacting to the Mr 40,000 human colonic epithelial protein that acts as an
autoantigen in ulcerative colitis. Using an anti-Mr 40,000 monoclonal antibody
(7E12H12, IgM isotype), by an immunoperoxidase assay we showed that all colon
specimens from S oedipus reacted with 7E12H12; however, the colonic tissue from C
jacchus and S fuscicollis did not. In immunotransblot analysis eluted IgG
antibody bound to human ulcerative colitis colon (CCA-IgG) reacted with Mr 40,000
protein(s) present in the extracts of colon from S oedipus animals and humans.
Small intestinal tissue reacted neither with 7E12H12 nor with CCA-IgG. In S
oedipus, the Mr 40,000 protein was localised exclusively to colonic epithelial
cells. Preincubation of seven S oedipus colon specimens with eight of 10 sera
from animals with acute or chronic colitis and 0 of four sera from animals
without colitis almost completely inhibited the binding of 7E12H12 to the colonic
epithelium. Four of these 10 sera inhibited the binding of 7E12H12 to the
autologous colon. These results show the presence of circulating autoantibodies
in S oedipus with colitis against an epitope(s) on Mr 40,000 protein shared by
human and S oedipus colon.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.33.1.48 
PMCID: PMC1373864
PMID: 1740277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

