

4258. J Neural Transm Park Dis Dement Sect. 1992;4(3):181-90.

Localization of MPP+ binding sites in the brain of various mammalian species.

Del Zompo M(1), Piccardi MP, Ruiu S, Albanese A, Morelli M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences B. B. Brodie, University of Cagliari, Italy.

The distribution and density of 3H-MPP+ binding sites were studied by in vitro
quantitative autoradiography in the brain of the mouse, rat and monkey. The
highest levels of 3H-MPP+ specific binding were observed in rat brain. The
substantia nigra in rat and monkey, and the anterior caudate-putamen formation in
mouse and monkey showed the lowest density of autoradiographic grains. The
presence of a relatively high density of MPP+ sites in the hippocampus of all
species studied could be of interest to explain some effects of MPTP
administration on convulsions caused by chemoconvulsants. The finding of a 60-70%
reduction of 3H-MPP+ binding sites in the rat caudate-putamen, on the side of
quinolinic acid infusion and no changes after 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of
dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons suggests the presence of these sites mainly on
striatal cells. The results suggest that the distribution of MPP+ binding sites
in brain would not seem to be related to MPTP toxicity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02260902 
PMID: 1627253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4259. Int Arch Allergy Immunol. 1992;97(2):178-80.

Influence of dexamethasone on the RM 3/1-positive macrophages in the peripheral
blood and tissues of a New World monkey (the marmoset Callithrix jacchus).

Zwadlo-Klarwasser G(1), Neubert R, Stahlmann R, Schmutzler W.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, Medical Faculty, RWTH Aachen, FRG.

Subcutaneous injection of the glucocorticoid dexamethasone in the primate
Callithrix jacchus increased the proportion of the macrophage subtype RM 3/1 in
the blood from a basic level of 16% positive monocytes to about 65%. The elevated
numbers of RM 3/1-positive cells were seen 24 and 72 h after application and were
independent of the dosages used (50 or 150 micrograms/kg). Oral administration
had no effect. CD4-, CD14- and CDw14-antigen expression of monocytes was not
influenced by the dexamethasone treatment. In tissues, e.g. spleen, thymus,
liver, skin and kidney, RM 3/1-positive macrophages revealed a similar
distribution as in human tissues but no differences in glucocorticoid treated to 
control animals could be observed. These results show that glucocorticoids induce
in the monkey Callithrix jacchus a distinct monocyte subtype similarly as in man 
while other macrophage phenotypes were not influenced.

DOI: 10.1159/000236115 
PMID: 1582709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

