

426. Am J Primatol. 2019 Sep;81(9):e23057. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23057. Epub 2019 Sep 30.

Baseline cortisol levels and social behavior differ as a function of handedness
in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Vaughan E(1), Le A(1), Casey M(2), Workman KP(2), Lacreuse A(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, Massachusetts.
(2)Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
Massachusetts.
(3)Center for Neuroendocrine Studies, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,
Massachusetts.

Population hand preferences are rare in nonhuman primates, but individual hand
preferences are consistent over a lifetime and considered to reflect an
individual's preference to use a particular hemisphere when engaged in a specific
task. Previous findings in marmosets have indicated that left-handed individuals 
tend to be more fearful than their right-handed counterparts. Based on these
findings, we tested the hypotheses that left-handed marmosets are (a) more
reactive to a social stressor and (b) are slower than right-handed marmosets in
acquiring a reversal learning task. We examined the hand preference of 27 male
and female marmosets (ages of 4-7 years old) previously tested in a social
separation task and a reversal learning task. Hand preference was determined via 
a simple reaching task. In the social separation task, monkeys were separated
from their partner and the colony for a single 7-hr session. Urinary cortisol
levels and behavior were assessed at baseline, during the separation and 24 hr
postseparation. Hand preferences were equally distributed between left (n = 10), 
right-handed (n = 10), and ambidextrous (n = 7) individuals. The separation phase
was associated with an increase in cortisol levels and behavioral changes that
were similar across handedness groups. However, cortisol levels at baseline were 
positively correlated with right-handedness, and this relationship was stronger
in females than in males. In addition, the occurrence of social behaviors (pre-
and postseparation) was positively correlated with right-handedness in both
sexes. Baseline cortisol levels did not correlate significantly with social
behavior. Acquisition of the reversals was poorer in females than males but did
not differ as a function of handedness. We conclude that (a) both stress
reactivity and cognitive flexibility are similar across handedness groups and (b)
left-handers exhibit less social behavior and have lower basal cortisol levels
than ambidextrous and right-handed subjects. The underlying causes for these
differences remain to be established.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23057 
PMID: 31566763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. RNA Biol. 2020 Jan;17(1):125-134. doi: 10.1080/15476286.2019.1670038. Epub 2019
Sep 29.

Functional heritage: the evolution of chimeric RNA into a gene.

Wu H(1)(2), Singh S(2), Shi X(3), Xie Z(2), Lin E(2), Li X(1), Li H(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central 
South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, School of Medicine,
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

Once believed to be unique features of neoplasia, chimeric RNAs are now being
discovered in normal physiology. We speculated that some chimeric RNAs may be
functional precursors of genes, and that forming chimeric RNA at the
transcriptional level may be a 'trial' mechanism before the functional element is
fixed into the genome. Supporting this idea, we identified a chimeric RNA,
HNRNPA1L2-SUGT1 (H-S), whose sequence is highly similar to that of a 'pseudogene'
MRPS31P5. Sequence analysis revealed that MRPS31P5 transcript is more similar to 
H-S chimeric RNA than its 'parent' gene, MRPS31. Evolutionarily, H-S precedes
MRPS31P5, as it can be detected bioinformatically and experimentally in
marmosets, which do not yet possess MRPS31P5 in their genome. Conversely, H-S is 
minimally expressed in humans, while instead, MRPS31P5 is abundantly expressed.
Silencing H-S in marmoset cells resulted in similar phenotype as silencing
MRPS31P5 in human cells. In addition, whole transcriptome analysis and candidate 
downstream target validation revealed common signalling pathways shared by the
two transcripts. Interestingly, H-S failed to rescue the phenotype caused by
silencing MPRS31P5 in human and rhesus cells, whereas MRPS31P5 can at least
partially rescue the phenotype caused by silencing H-S in marmoset cells,
suggesting that MRPS31P5 may have further evolved into a distinct entity. Thus,
multiple lines of evidence support that MRPS31P5 is not truly a pseudogene of
MRPS31, but a likely functional descendent of H-S chimera. Instead being a gene
fusion product, H-S is a product of cis-splicing between adjacent genes, while
MRPS31P5 is likely produced by genome rearrangement.

DOI: 10.1080/15476286.2019.1670038 
PMCID: PMC6948976
PMID: 31566065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

