

4262. Life Sci. 1992;50(14):1057-62.

Soman levels in kidney and urine following administration to rat, guinea pig, and
marmoset.

de Jong LP(1), Benschop HP, Due A, Van Dijk C, Trap HC, Van der Wiel HJ, Van
Helden HP.

Author information: 
(1)Prins Maurits Laboratory TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

Concentrations of C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman (1,2,2-trimethylpropyl
methylphosphonofluoridate) in urine of anaesthetized, atropinized and
artificially ventilated rats, guinea pigs and marmosets were determined 1-4 h
after iv administration of 1-6 LD50 of the agent and in the kidneys 1 h after iv 
administration of 2-6 LD50 14C-C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman. The concentrations of the
toxic C(+/-)P(-)-isomers in both urine and kidneys of the rat were at least two
orders of magnitude higher than the corresponding levels in the two other
species. Relatively high urine concentrations were also found for
C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman-intoxicated (6 LD50) rats pretreated with the nontoxic soman
analogue PDP (1,2,2-trimethyl dimethylphosphinate), which considerably decreases 
the persistence of C(+/-)P(-)-soman in rats, or the carboxylesterase inhibitor
CBDP [2-(o-cresyl)-4H-1:3:2-benzodioxaphosphorin-2-oxide]. The lethal effect
brought about by intravesical administration of C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman in rats showed
that the agent can easily be reabsorbed from the bladder. It is concluded, that
this reabsorption does probably not explain the previously observed persistence
and "late toxicity" of C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman in rats, although the amount of renally
excreted C(+/-)P(-)-soman (ca. 1% of the administered dose) should be sufficient 
for a toxicologically significant effect.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(92)90101-t 
PMID: 1552824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4263. Genetica. 1992;85(3):249-57.

Karyotypic comparison among Cebuella pygmaea, Callithrix jacchus and C. emiliae
(Callitrichidae, Primates) and its taxonomic implications.

Nagamachi CY(1), Pieczarka JC, Barros RM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Pará, Brasil.

The karyotype of Cebuella pygmaea (2n = 44) obtained by G-, C-banding, and
NOR-staining is described. This species presents a heteromorphic C band in the
intersticial region of the short arm of chromosome 2. The data obtained were
compared with those previously described for the karyotypes of Callithrix jacchus
and Callithrix emiliae. The three species differ in the amount and distribution
of non-centromeric constitutive heterochromatin. The importance of the variation 
in constitutive heterochromatin for the phylogeny of the group is discussed.
Comparison of the karyotypes in terms of G-banding patterns showed that C.
pygmaea and C. emiliae differ from C. jacchus by a Robertsonian translocation and
a paracentric inversion, whereas C. pygmaea and C. emiliae differ from each other
by a reciprocal translocation between an acrocentric autosome and the short arm
of the submetacentric chromosomes that distinguishes their karyotypes from that
of C. jacchus. The possible evolutionary paths followed by the karyotypes of the 
three species are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00132277 
PMID: 1521801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

