

4269. Parasitol Res. 1992;78(6):509-12.

Studies on the developmental cycle of Trichospirura leptostoma (Nematoda:
Thelaziidae). Experimental infection of the intermediate hosts Blatella germanica
and Supella longipalpa and the definitive host Callithrix jacchus and development
in the intermediate hosts.

Illgen-Wilcke B(1), Beglinger R, Pfister R, Heider K.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development Department, Pharmaceuticals Division, CIBA-GEIGY
Limited, Basel, Switzerland.

The cockroaches Blatella germanica and Supella longipalpa can act as intermediate
hosts of Trichospirura leptostoma as demonstrated by experimental infestation.
The parasite developed from the embryonated egg into the infective larval stage
(L3) in cockroaches within 5-6 weeks. After experimental infection of marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), eggs were first found in faecal samples (prepatency) at 8-9
weeks post-infection. Patency lasts about 2 years. Despite the presence of living
adult worms in the marmosets' pancreas, no additional eggs were observed in their
faeces after the patent period.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00931572 
PMID: 1438137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4270. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1992;109(1-2):49-56.

Motor activity following the administration of selective D-1 and D-2 dopaminergic
drugs to MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Löschmann PA(1), Smith LA, Lange KW, Jähnig P, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, UK.

The ability of selective D-1 agonist and antagonist drugs to alter motor deficits
and locomotor activity was studied in MPTP-treated common marmosets. Both the D-2
agonist quinpirole and the mixed D-1/D-2 agonist apomorphine reversed the motor
impairments and induced locomotor activity. The D-1 antagonist SCH 23390 and the 
D-2 antagonist raclopride given alone further reduced motor function in
MPTP-treated animals. The actions of quinpirole were potently and completely
inhibited by raclopride but only partially and inconsistently by SCH 23390. In
contrast, the effects of apomorphine were markedly but incompletely inhibited by 
both raclopride and SCH 23390. The D-1 agonist SKF 38393 alone caused a dose
related reduction in motor activity. SKF 38393 weakly and partially inhibited the
improvements in motor function produced by quinpirole but had a more pronounced
effect on apomorphine induced motor activity. The induction of motor activity in 
MPTP treated common marmosets may separately involve both D-1 and D-2 receptors. 
Comparison with our previous data on the effect of the same drugs in normal
common marmosets provides some evidence for a breakdown of linkage between D-1
and D-2 systems following MPTP treatment. The actions of SKF 38393 in
MPTP-treated common marmosets contrasts with its ability to induce behavioural
activation and a facilitation of D-2 mediated behaviour in rodents. SKF 38393 may
not be the compound with which to delineate the role of D-1 receptors in
primates.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02245479 
PMID: 1365671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

