

427. RNA Biol. 2020 Jan;17(1):125-134. doi: 10.1080/15476286.2019.1670038. Epub 2019
Sep 29.

Functional heritage: the evolution of chimeric RNA into a gene.

Wu H(1)(2), Singh S(2), Shi X(3), Xie Z(2), Lin E(2), Li X(1), Li H(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central 
South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, School of Medicine,
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

Once believed to be unique features of neoplasia, chimeric RNAs are now being
discovered in normal physiology. We speculated that some chimeric RNAs may be
functional precursors of genes, and that forming chimeric RNA at the
transcriptional level may be a 'trial' mechanism before the functional element is
fixed into the genome. Supporting this idea, we identified a chimeric RNA,
HNRNPA1L2-SUGT1 (H-S), whose sequence is highly similar to that of a 'pseudogene'
MRPS31P5. Sequence analysis revealed that MRPS31P5 transcript is more similar to 
H-S chimeric RNA than its 'parent' gene, MRPS31. Evolutionarily, H-S precedes
MRPS31P5, as it can be detected bioinformatically and experimentally in
marmosets, which do not yet possess MRPS31P5 in their genome. Conversely, H-S is 
minimally expressed in humans, while instead, MRPS31P5 is abundantly expressed.
Silencing H-S in marmoset cells resulted in similar phenotype as silencing
MRPS31P5 in human cells. In addition, whole transcriptome analysis and candidate 
downstream target validation revealed common signalling pathways shared by the
two transcripts. Interestingly, H-S failed to rescue the phenotype caused by
silencing MPRS31P5 in human and rhesus cells, whereas MRPS31P5 can at least
partially rescue the phenotype caused by silencing H-S in marmoset cells,
suggesting that MRPS31P5 may have further evolved into a distinct entity. Thus,
multiple lines of evidence support that MRPS31P5 is not truly a pseudogene of
MRPS31, but a likely functional descendent of H-S chimera. Instead being a gene
fusion product, H-S is a product of cis-splicing between adjacent genes, while
MRPS31P5 is likely produced by genome rearrangement.

DOI: 10.1080/15476286.2019.1670038 
PMCID: PMC6948976
PMID: 31566065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Primates. 2020 Mar;61(2):321-329. doi: 10.1007/s10329-019-00760-x. Epub 2019 Sep 
28.

Electrocutions in free-living black-tufted marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) in 
anthropogenic environments in the Federal District and surrounding areas, Brazil.

Pereira AABG(1), Dias B(1), Castro SI(1), Landi MFA(1), Melo CB(1), Wilson TM(1),
Costa GRT(2), Passos PHO(3), Romano AP(3), Szabó MPJ(4), Castro MB(5).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
(2)Environmental Health Surveillance Directorate of the Federal District (DIVAL),
SAAN-Estrada do Contorno do Bosque, lote 04, Brasília, DF, 70790-060, Brazil.
(3)Technical Group on Arbovirus Surveillance (GT-Arbovirosis) General
Coordination of Communicable Diseases (CGDT), Department of Communicable Disease 
Surveillance (DEVIT), Secretariat of Health Surveillance-Ministry of Health
(SVS/MS) SRTV 701, Via W 5 Norte-Ed. PO700-6 andar., Brasília, DF, 70723-040,
Brazil.
(4)Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia, Av.
Pará 1720, Campus Umuarama-Bloco 2T, Uberlândia, MG, 38400-902, Brazil.
(5)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
mbcastro@unb.br.

Shrinking natural habitats exposes some non-human primates to the risk of
accidents associated with electrical transmission lines. We examined dead
marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) collected in the region from January 2015 to
April 2018 to determine the animals' cause of death and for electrocuted animals 
we examined the locations the animals had died as well as the configuration of
the power lines at these sites. We also recorded the sex of the animal, the body 
region affected, and characteristics of the injuries. We diagnosed electrocutions
in 11% (n = 34) of the marmosets studied. Most of the affected animals were male 
(n = 22) with single or double sites of injury on the limbs. Animals were injured
in urban (n = 26) and peri-urban (n = 8) areas on lower-voltage alternate current
lines, and we detected no seasonality or hotspots of electrocution. Our findings 
suggest that movement along transmission lines composed of bundled conductors is 
a major factor in electrocutions of marmosets in the Federal District and
surrounding areas. The planning of electrical power grid infrastructure should
consider arboreal primates to prevent electrocutions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-019-00760-x 
PMID: 31564005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

