

4270. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1992;109(1-2):49-56.

Motor activity following the administration of selective D-1 and D-2 dopaminergic
drugs to MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Löschmann PA(1), Smith LA, Lange KW, Jähnig P, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, UK.

The ability of selective D-1 agonist and antagonist drugs to alter motor deficits
and locomotor activity was studied in MPTP-treated common marmosets. Both the D-2
agonist quinpirole and the mixed D-1/D-2 agonist apomorphine reversed the motor
impairments and induced locomotor activity. The D-1 antagonist SCH 23390 and the 
D-2 antagonist raclopride given alone further reduced motor function in
MPTP-treated animals. The actions of quinpirole were potently and completely
inhibited by raclopride but only partially and inconsistently by SCH 23390. In
contrast, the effects of apomorphine were markedly but incompletely inhibited by 
both raclopride and SCH 23390. The D-1 agonist SKF 38393 alone caused a dose
related reduction in motor activity. SKF 38393 weakly and partially inhibited the
improvements in motor function produced by quinpirole but had a more pronounced
effect on apomorphine induced motor activity. The induction of motor activity in 
MPTP treated common marmosets may separately involve both D-1 and D-2 receptors. 
Comparison with our previous data on the effect of the same drugs in normal
common marmosets provides some evidence for a breakdown of linkage between D-1
and D-2 systems following MPTP treatment. The actions of SKF 38393 in
MPTP-treated common marmosets contrasts with its ability to induce behavioural
activation and a facilitation of D-2 mediated behaviour in rodents. SKF 38393 may
not be the compound with which to delineate the role of D-1 receptors in
primates.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02245479 
PMID: 1365671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4271. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 1992 Jan;12(1-3):267-74.

Cellular localization of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA and cholecystokinin
mRNA-containing cells in the ventral mesencephalon of the common marmoset:
effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Sirinathsinghji DJ(1), Kupsch A, Mayer E, Zivin M, Pufal D, Oertel WH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioural Physiology, AFRC Institute of Animal Physiology and 
Genetics Research, Babraham, Cambridge, U.K.

In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to localize tyrosine hydroxylase
(TH) mRNA and cholecystokinin (CCK) mRNA-expressing cells in the ventral
mesencephalon of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and to examine the
effects of the dopaminergic (DA) neurotoxin,
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on these two populations of
neurons in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra (SNc) and ventral tegmental 
area (VTA). X-ray film and liquid emulsion autoradiography of brain sections
hybridized with an 35S-labelled synthetic 45-mer antisense human TH
oligonucleotide probe showed strong hybridization signals and dense populations
of TH mRNA expressing cells in the SNc and VTA at all levels, in the control
marmoset brain. In the MPTP-treated brain, there was a substantial reduction of
TH mRNA in the ventral midbrain. The loss of TH mRNA-expressing cells amounted to
98% in the lateral SNc, 88% in the medial SNc and 33% in the VTA. In situ
hybridization of adjacent sections with an 35S-labelled synthetic 45-mer
antisense human CCK oligonucleotide probe showed a weak hybridization signal for 
CCK mRNA in the ventral midbrain of the control brain. Emulsion autoradiography
demonstrated CCK mRNA expressing cells in the SNc and VTA at all levels with the 
number of cells in the VTA similar to that for TH mRNA. However, the number of
cells in the SNc expressing CCK mRNA was a fraction (1/4) of that expressing TH
mRNA; moreover, the level of expression per cell was substantially less than that
for TH mRNA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0169-328x(92)90093-q 
PMID: 1347634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

