

4278. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1992 Jan;260(1):29-35.

The acute renal actions of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in the
sodium-depleted conscious primate are mediated by inhibition of the
renin-angiotensin system.

Humke U(1), Levens N, Wood J, Hofbauer K.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Department, CIBA-GEIGY Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.

The purpose of this study was to determine if the changes in renal function
acutely produced by an inhibitor of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) in the
sodium-depleted conscious marmoset can be explained primarily by blockade of the 
renin-angiotensin system. Intravenous injection of a dose of the ACEI,
enalaprilate (2 mg/kg), that produced a maximal lowering of blood pressure (BP), 
also decreased renal vascular resistance and increased renal blood flow.
Glomerular filtration rate was unchanged by enalaprilat, leading to a fall in the
filtration fraction. In comparison, a dose of the renin inhibitory monoclonal
antibody, R-3-36-16 (0.1 mg/kg), that also produced a maximal fall in BP,
produced similar changes in renal hemodynamics to those observed after
administration of the ACEI. Combined administration of 2 mg/kg enalaprilat and
0.1 mg/kg R-3-36-16 produced changes in BP and renal hemodynamics similar to
those produced by the same doses of either agent administered alone. Enalaprilat 
(2 mg/kg) significantly increased urine volume (UV) and urinary sodium excretion 
(UNaV). In contrast, these parameters were not significantly altered by 0.1 mg/kg
R-3-36-16. However, when given at a 10-fold higher dose, the monoclonal antibody 
produced an increase in UNaV and UV identical to that produced by the ACEI alone.
Enalaprilat did not increase UV and UNaV excretion to a greater extent than the
high dose of the renin inhibitory antibody. These results demonstrate that acute 
administration of an ACEI affects BP and renal function in the sodium-depleted
conscious primate primarily by inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system.


PMID: 1309874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4279. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1992;59(3):169-76.

Fine structure of the vomeronasal organ in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Taniguchi K(1), Matsusaki Y, Ogawa K, Saito TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Anatomy, Faculty of Agriculture, Iwate University,
Morioka, Japan.

DOI: 10.1159/000156655 
PMID: 1306179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

