

428. Primates. 2020 Mar;61(2):321-329. doi: 10.1007/s10329-019-00760-x. Epub 2019 Sep 
28.

Electrocutions in free-living black-tufted marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) in 
anthropogenic environments in the Federal District and surrounding areas, Brazil.

Pereira AABG(1), Dias B(1), Castro SI(1), Landi MFA(1), Melo CB(1), Wilson TM(1),
Costa GRT(2), Passos PHO(3), Romano AP(3), Szabó MPJ(4), Castro MB(5).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
(2)Environmental Health Surveillance Directorate of the Federal District (DIVAL),
SAAN-Estrada do Contorno do Bosque, lote 04, Brasília, DF, 70790-060, Brazil.
(3)Technical Group on Arbovirus Surveillance (GT-Arbovirosis) General
Coordination of Communicable Diseases (CGDT), Department of Communicable Disease 
Surveillance (DEVIT), Secretariat of Health Surveillance-Ministry of Health
(SVS/MS) SRTV 701, Via W 5 Norte-Ed. PO700-6 andar., Brasília, DF, 70723-040,
Brazil.
(4)Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia, Av.
Pará 1720, Campus Umuarama-Bloco 2T, Uberlândia, MG, 38400-902, Brazil.
(5)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
mbcastro@unb.br.

Shrinking natural habitats exposes some non-human primates to the risk of
accidents associated with electrical transmission lines. We examined dead
marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) collected in the region from January 2015 to
April 2018 to determine the animals' cause of death and for electrocuted animals 
we examined the locations the animals had died as well as the configuration of
the power lines at these sites. We also recorded the sex of the animal, the body 
region affected, and characteristics of the injuries. We diagnosed electrocutions
in 11% (n = 34) of the marmosets studied. Most of the affected animals were male 
(n = 22) with single or double sites of injury on the limbs. Animals were injured
in urban (n = 26) and peri-urban (n = 8) areas on lower-voltage alternate current
lines, and we detected no seasonality or hotspots of electrocution. Our findings 
suggest that movement along transmission lines composed of bundled conductors is 
a major factor in electrocutions of marmosets in the Federal District and
surrounding areas. The planning of electrical power grid infrastructure should
consider arboreal primates to prevent electrocutions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-019-00760-x 
PMID: 31564005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Sci Rep. 2019 Sep 23;9(1):13716. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-50063-w.

Chemical cues of female fertility states in a non-human primate.

Kücklich M(1)(2), Weiß BM(3)(4), Birkemeyer C(5), Einspanier A(6), Widdig
A(3)(4)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Research Group of Behavioural Ecology, Institute of Biology, University of
Leipzig, Talstraße 33, 04103, Leipzig, Germany. marlen.kuecklich@uni-leipzig.de.
(2)Research Group of Primate Behavioural Ecology, Department of Human Behavior,
Ecology and Culture, Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Deutscher Platz 6, 04103, Leipzig, Germany. marlen.kuecklich@uni-leipzig.de.
(3)Research Group of Behavioural Ecology, Institute of Biology, University of
Leipzig, Talstraße 33, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(4)Research Group of Primate Behavioural Ecology, Department of Human Behavior,
Ecology and Culture, Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Deutscher Platz 6, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(5)Research Group of Mass Spectrometry, Institute of Analytical Chemistry,
University of Leipzig, Linnéstraße 3, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(6)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Leipzig, An den Tierkliniken 1, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(7)German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv), Deutscher Platz
5E, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.

An increasing number of studies suggest that olfaction is important for
communication throughout the order of primates. Callitrichids, in particular,
have well-developed olfactory systems and use anogenital glands to produce scent 
marks. Behavioural studies have shown that male common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) distinguish between odours from the peri-ovulatory and luteal phase of
females. However, large gaps remain in understanding the chemical underpinnings
of olfactory cues. To investigate whether chemical cues vary with female
fertility and reproductive quality, our study combined behavioural bioassays with
chemical analyses of the anogenital odours of female common marmosets using gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry. We found that cycle states, age and parity have
an impact on chemical profiles and further identified affected chemical
substances. Our results confirm and expand on previous behavioural evidence for
cues of fertility. Our results indicate that cycle-related substances likely act 
as chemical cues. Males could use such olfactory fertility cues to optimize their
mating effort and thereby increase their paternity certainty. This certainty
could enhance paternal care for their infants. The results of our study open a
promising avenue to find the metabolic pathways from which chemical cues of
fertility arise and to unravel their importance during primate evolution in
future comparative studies.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-50063-w 
PMCID: PMC6757047
PMID: 31548568  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

