

4280. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 1992;(9-10):52-5.

[Expression of HIV-1 tat gene under the control of P 7,5 KD vaccinia virus
promoter in CV-1 cells].

[Article in Russian]

Kholodkov OA, Fodor II.

The transient expression of the HIV-1 gag genes and a HIV-1 ++trans-activator
protein (tat)-encoded was made in cultured CV-1 cells. In recombinant plasmids,
the gag gene was under the control of HIV-1 ++trans-activator sequence (tar) and 
the tat gene was under the control of a 7.5-kd vaccinia promoter. Transactivation
of gag gene expression, which was stimulated by a tat gene expression product,
was observed in the presence of wild vaccinia virus. The transaction was
immunologically evaluated from the binding to monoclonal anti-p17 and anti-p24
antibodies. The findings lead to the discussion whether the regulatory proteins
of HIV-1 can express in vaccinia virus vectors.


PMID: 1283722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4281. J Biochem Toxicol. 1992 Fall;7(3):183-91.

Species differences in ciprofibrate induction of hepatic cytochrome P450 4A1 and 
peroxisome proliferation.

Makowska JM(1), Gibson GG, Bonner FW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Surrey, School of Biological Sciences, Guildford, England, UK.

Six species (CD-1 mouse, Fischer 344 rat, Syrian golden hamster, Duncan-Hartley
guinea pig, half-lop rabbit and marmoset monkey) were treated orally with
ciprofibrate, a potent oxyisobutyrate hypolipidaemic drug for 14 days. A
dose-dependent liver enlargment was observed in the mouse and rat and at the high
dose level in the hamster. A marked dose-dependent increase in the
12-hydroxylation of lauric acid was observed in the treated mouse, hamster, rat, 
and rabbit, associated with a concomitant elevation in the specific content of
cytochrome P-450 4A1 apoprotein, determined by an ELISA technique. Similarly, in 
these responsive species, an increase in mRNA levels coding for cytochrome P450
4A1 was observed. Lauric acid 12-hydroxylation was unchanged in the guinea pig
and marmoset after ciprofibrate pretreatment, and cytochrome P-450 4A1 was not
detected immunochemically in liver microsomes from these latter species. In the
untreated mouse, hamster, rat, and rabbit, the 12-hydroxylation of lauric acid
was more extensive than the 11-hydroxylation, whereas in the guinea pig and
marmoset the activity ratios were reversed, with 11-hydroxylation predominating. 
Peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation was markedly induced in the mouse, hamster,
rat, and rabbit on treatment at the higher dose level (39-, 3-, 13- and 5-fold,
respectively) and was slightly increased in the marmoset (2-fold), yet was
unchanged in the guinea pig following treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.2570070308 
PMID: 1282571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

