

4281. J Biochem Toxicol. 1992 Fall;7(3):183-91.

Species differences in ciprofibrate induction of hepatic cytochrome P450 4A1 and 
peroxisome proliferation.

Makowska JM(1), Gibson GG, Bonner FW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Surrey, School of Biological Sciences, Guildford, England, UK.

Six species (CD-1 mouse, Fischer 344 rat, Syrian golden hamster, Duncan-Hartley
guinea pig, half-lop rabbit and marmoset monkey) were treated orally with
ciprofibrate, a potent oxyisobutyrate hypolipidaemic drug for 14 days. A
dose-dependent liver enlargment was observed in the mouse and rat and at the high
dose level in the hamster. A marked dose-dependent increase in the
12-hydroxylation of lauric acid was observed in the treated mouse, hamster, rat, 
and rabbit, associated with a concomitant elevation in the specific content of
cytochrome P-450 4A1 apoprotein, determined by an ELISA technique. Similarly, in 
these responsive species, an increase in mRNA levels coding for cytochrome P450
4A1 was observed. Lauric acid 12-hydroxylation was unchanged in the guinea pig
and marmoset after ciprofibrate pretreatment, and cytochrome P-450 4A1 was not
detected immunochemically in liver microsomes from these latter species. In the
untreated mouse, hamster, rat, and rabbit, the 12-hydroxylation of lauric acid
was more extensive than the 11-hydroxylation, whereas in the guinea pig and
marmoset the activity ratios were reversed, with 11-hydroxylation predominating. 
Peroxisomal fatty acid beta-oxidation was markedly induced in the mouse, hamster,
rat, and rabbit on treatment at the higher dose level (39-, 3-, 13- and 5-fold,
respectively) and was slightly increased in the marmoset (2-fold), yet was
unchanged in the guinea pig following treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.2570070308 
PMID: 1282571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4282. Brain Res. 1991 Dec 13;567(1):127-32.

Extensive loss of brain dopamine and serotonin induced by chronic administration 
of MPTP in the marmoset.

Pérez-Otaño I(1), Herrero MT, Oset C, De Ceballos ML, Luquin MR, Obeso JA, Del
Río J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Clínica Universitaria, University of Navarra
Medical School, Pamplona, Spain.

Common marmosets were given a subcutaneous injection of MPTP (1.25-2.5 mg/kg
twice a week) for 5 or 10 consecutive months and were sacrificed after a survival
time of 6 months or 15 days, respectively. The parkinsonian symptoms were not
very marked at the time of sacrifice but there was a strong decrease of dopamine 
and, to a lesser extent, of its metabolites in the striatum and in some
extrastriatal regions. There was also a profound loss of serotonin in the
striatum and in all of the extrastriatal regions analyzed, which was still highly
significant 6 months after discontinuation of MPTP treatment. The results suggest
that the selected dosage schedule produces a widespread and lasting neuronal
degeneration closely resembling the neurochemical pathology of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(91)91444-6 
PMID: 1815820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

