

4282. Brain Res. 1991 Dec 13;567(1):127-32.

Extensive loss of brain dopamine and serotonin induced by chronic administration 
of MPTP in the marmoset.

Pérez-Otaño I(1), Herrero MT, Oset C, De Ceballos ML, Luquin MR, Obeso JA, Del
Río J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Clínica Universitaria, University of Navarra
Medical School, Pamplona, Spain.

Common marmosets were given a subcutaneous injection of MPTP (1.25-2.5 mg/kg
twice a week) for 5 or 10 consecutive months and were sacrificed after a survival
time of 6 months or 15 days, respectively. The parkinsonian symptoms were not
very marked at the time of sacrifice but there was a strong decrease of dopamine 
and, to a lesser extent, of its metabolites in the striatum and in some
extrastriatal regions. There was also a profound loss of serotonin in the
striatum and in all of the extrastriatal regions analyzed, which was still highly
significant 6 months after discontinuation of MPTP treatment. The results suggest
that the selected dosage schedule produces a widespread and lasting neuronal
degeneration closely resembling the neurochemical pathology of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(91)91444-6 
PMID: 1815820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4283. J Chromatogr. 1991 Dec 6;572(1-2):277-89.

Use of dabsylation, column switching and chiral separation for the determination 
of a renin inhibitor in rat, marmoset and human plasma.

Ba B(1), Eckert G, Leube J.

Author information: 
(1)Pharma Division, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.

A high-performance liquid chromatographic method with column switching was
developed for the determination of the renin inhibitor Ro 42-5892/001,
(S)-alpha-[(S)-alpha-[(tert.-butylsulphonyl)methyl]hydrocinnama mido]-N-
[(1S,2R,3S)-1-(cyclohexylmethyl)-3-cylcopropyl-2,
3-dihydroxypropyl]imidazole-4-propionamide methanesulphonate (1:1), in rat,
marmoset and human plasma, using a Nucleosil C8 120 (3 microns) stationary phase.
Since the analyte and the internal standard are optical isomers,
beta-cyclodextrin was used as a mobile phase constituent for their chiral
separation. The method took advantage of the characteristics of dabsyl chloride
derivatives, namely sensitivity, specificity and, particularly, stability,
providing a quantification limit of 5 ng/ml. The accuracy (range of inaccuracy
1-13%) and the inter-assay precision (coefficient of variation range 1.8-9.1%)
were acceptable. The method was successfully applied to toxicokinetic studies in 
rats and marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-4347(91)80492-u 
PMID: 1818062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

