

4283. J Chromatogr. 1991 Dec 6;572(1-2):277-89.

Use of dabsylation, column switching and chiral separation for the determination 
of a renin inhibitor in rat, marmoset and human plasma.

Ba B(1), Eckert G, Leube J.

Author information: 
(1)Pharma Division, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.

A high-performance liquid chromatographic method with column switching was
developed for the determination of the renin inhibitor Ro 42-5892/001,
(S)-alpha-[(S)-alpha-[(tert.-butylsulphonyl)methyl]hydrocinnama mido]-N-
[(1S,2R,3S)-1-(cyclohexylmethyl)-3-cylcopropyl-2,
3-dihydroxypropyl]imidazole-4-propionamide methanesulphonate (1:1), in rat,
marmoset and human plasma, using a Nucleosil C8 120 (3 microns) stationary phase.
Since the analyte and the internal standard are optical isomers,
beta-cyclodextrin was used as a mobile phase constituent for their chiral
separation. The method took advantage of the characteristics of dabsyl chloride
derivatives, namely sensitivity, specificity and, particularly, stability,
providing a quantification limit of 5 ng/ml. The accuracy (range of inaccuracy
1-13%) and the inter-assay precision (coefficient of variation range 1.8-9.1%)
were acceptable. The method was successfully applied to toxicokinetic studies in 
rats and marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-4347(91)80492-u 
PMID: 1818062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4284. Am J Clin Nutr. 1991 Dec;54(6 Suppl):1214S-1220S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/54.6.1214s.

Reduced bactericidal activity in neutrophils from scorbutic animals and the
effect of ascorbic acid on these target bacteria in vivo and in vitro.

Goldschmidt MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dental Branch, University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston 77225.

Actinomycetes, involved in oral and periodontal diseases, cause serious
infections in immunocompromised hosts. Severely scorbutic guinea pig leukocytes
killed only 12% of phagocytosed actinomycetes, had distorted nuclear morphology, 
had 16 times less ascorbate, and had no chemotactic responses in vitro. Ascorbate
reversed these indices and also prevented nitrosamine formation by oral
organisms. Degranulating leukocytes release lactoferrin and ascorbate that
chelate iron, essential for microorganisms. Ascorbic acid, 2,2'-bipyridine and
1,10-phenanthroline were bactericidal to several bacterial pathogens at
millimolar concentrations. Iron alone reversed this effect. In in vivo
experiments an Actinomyces viscosus monoflora was implanted in rhesus monkeys.
Plaque and serum samples showed decreased (by six orders of magnitude) bacterial 
counts and decreased actinomycete antibody titers in animals given 1 g
ascorbate/d. Removing ascorbate returned counts and titers to preascorbate
concentrations. Fifteen marmosets, receiving twice daily topical applications of 
ascorbate or water, had comparatively lower gingival, calculus, and plaque
indices and only slightly lowered actinomycete counts.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/54.6.1214s 
PMID: 1962573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

