

4284. Am J Clin Nutr. 1991 Dec;54(6 Suppl):1214S-1220S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/54.6.1214s.

Reduced bactericidal activity in neutrophils from scorbutic animals and the
effect of ascorbic acid on these target bacteria in vivo and in vitro.

Goldschmidt MC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dental Branch, University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston 77225.

Actinomycetes, involved in oral and periodontal diseases, cause serious
infections in immunocompromised hosts. Severely scorbutic guinea pig leukocytes
killed only 12% of phagocytosed actinomycetes, had distorted nuclear morphology, 
had 16 times less ascorbate, and had no chemotactic responses in vitro. Ascorbate
reversed these indices and also prevented nitrosamine formation by oral
organisms. Degranulating leukocytes release lactoferrin and ascorbate that
chelate iron, essential for microorganisms. Ascorbic acid, 2,2'-bipyridine and
1,10-phenanthroline were bactericidal to several bacterial pathogens at
millimolar concentrations. Iron alone reversed this effect. In in vivo
experiments an Actinomyces viscosus monoflora was implanted in rhesus monkeys.
Plaque and serum samples showed decreased (by six orders of magnitude) bacterial 
counts and decreased actinomycete antibody titers in animals given 1 g
ascorbate/d. Removing ascorbate returned counts and titers to preascorbate
concentrations. Fifteen marmosets, receiving twice daily topical applications of 
ascorbate or water, had comparatively lower gingival, calculus, and plaque
indices and only slightly lowered actinomycete counts.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/54.6.1214s 
PMID: 1962573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4285. J Hypertens. 1991 Dec;9(12):1119-25.

Effect of renin inhibitor, ES-8891, on renal renin secretion and storage in the
marmoset: comparison with captopril.

Ii Y(1), Murakami E, Hiwada K.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Ehime University School of Medicine,
Japan.

We investigated the effects of the human renin inhibitor, ES-8891, and captopril 
on renal renin secretion and storage in the marmoset. Either ES-8891 (30 mg/kg)
or captopril (2 mg/kg) was given orally twice a day for 1 week to conscious,
sodium-depleted marmosets (n = 6 for each group). The ES-8891-treated group
displayed a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure (MAP), plasma renin
activity (PRA) and plasma immunoreactive renin (PIR) compared with the control
group. Kidney renin content was significantly increased compared with the control
group and enlarged renin granules containing heterogenous internum were observed 
in juxtaglomerular cells after treatment with ES-8891. Treatment with captopril
significantly increased PRA and PIR compared with the control day as well as
increasing kidney renin content and the number of renin granules with crystalline
content in juxtaglomerular cells compared with the control group. These results
suggest that ES-8891 inhibits both PRA and renin secretion from the kidney,
resulting in an increase in renal renin storage.


PMID: 1663967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

