

4285. J Hypertens. 1991 Dec;9(12):1119-25.

Effect of renin inhibitor, ES-8891, on renal renin secretion and storage in the
marmoset: comparison with captopril.

Ii Y(1), Murakami E, Hiwada K.

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Ehime University School of Medicine,
Japan.

We investigated the effects of the human renin inhibitor, ES-8891, and captopril 
on renal renin secretion and storage in the marmoset. Either ES-8891 (30 mg/kg)
or captopril (2 mg/kg) was given orally twice a day for 1 week to conscious,
sodium-depleted marmosets (n = 6 for each group). The ES-8891-treated group
displayed a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure (MAP), plasma renin
activity (PRA) and plasma immunoreactive renin (PIR) compared with the control
group. Kidney renin content was significantly increased compared with the control
group and enlarged renin granules containing heterogenous internum were observed 
in juxtaglomerular cells after treatment with ES-8891. Treatment with captopril
significantly increased PRA and PIR compared with the control day as well as
increasing kidney renin content and the number of renin granules with crystalline
content in juxtaglomerular cells compared with the control group. These results
suggest that ES-8891 inhibits both PRA and renin secretion from the kidney,
resulting in an increase in renal renin storage.


PMID: 1663967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4286. J Virol. 1991 Dec;65(12):6953-60.

Identification and characterization of the herpesvirus saimiri oncoprotein
STP-C488.

Jung JU(1), Desrosiers RC.

Author information: 
(1)New England Regional Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School,
Southborough, Massachusetts 01772.

The protein encoded by herpesvirus saimiri transforming gene STP-C488 was
identified and characterized. Antibodies were produced in rabbits by immunization
with keyhole limpet hemocyanin-conjugated synthetic peptides specific for the
predicted sequence of STP-C488. STP-C488-encoded protein was detected in
recombinant Escherichia coli, transformed Rat-1 cells, transfected COS-1 cells,
and in common marmoset T lymphocytes immortalized by herpesvirus saimiri strain
488. STP-C488 protein was sensitive to treatment by bacterial collagenase,
consistent with the 18 uninterrupted collagenlike repeats predicted by the DNA
sequence. The apparent molecular size of STP-C488 in sodium dodecyl sulfate
(SDS)-polyacrylamide gels (20 to 22 kDa) was considerably larger than that
predicted from the DNA sequence (9.9 kDa). Using indirect immunofluorescence
tests and subcellular fractionation, STP-C488 was found to be membrane bound,
primarily in perinuclear compartments. The 18 uninterrupted collagenlike repeats,
sensitivity to collagenase, location in the cell, and anomalous migration through
SDS-polyacrylamide gels suggest an unusual, membrane-associated, fibrous
structure for this transforming herpesvirus oncoprotein.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.65.12.6953-6960.1991 
PMCID: PMC250805
PMID: 1658384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

