

4286. J Virol. 1991 Dec;65(12):6953-60.

Identification and characterization of the herpesvirus saimiri oncoprotein
STP-C488.

Jung JU(1), Desrosiers RC.

Author information: 
(1)New England Regional Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School,
Southborough, Massachusetts 01772.

The protein encoded by herpesvirus saimiri transforming gene STP-C488 was
identified and characterized. Antibodies were produced in rabbits by immunization
with keyhole limpet hemocyanin-conjugated synthetic peptides specific for the
predicted sequence of STP-C488. STP-C488-encoded protein was detected in
recombinant Escherichia coli, transformed Rat-1 cells, transfected COS-1 cells,
and in common marmoset T lymphocytes immortalized by herpesvirus saimiri strain
488. STP-C488 protein was sensitive to treatment by bacterial collagenase,
consistent with the 18 uninterrupted collagenlike repeats predicted by the DNA
sequence. The apparent molecular size of STP-C488 in sodium dodecyl sulfate
(SDS)-polyacrylamide gels (20 to 22 kDa) was considerably larger than that
predicted from the DNA sequence (9.9 kDa). Using indirect immunofluorescence
tests and subcellular fractionation, STP-C488 was found to be membrane bound,
primarily in perinuclear compartments. The 18 uninterrupted collagenlike repeats,
sensitivity to collagenase, location in the cell, and anomalous migration through
SDS-polyacrylamide gels suggest an unusual, membrane-associated, fibrous
structure for this transforming herpesvirus oncoprotein.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.65.12.6953-6960.1991 
PMCID: PMC250805
PMID: 1658384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4287. J Chromatogr. 1991 Nov 29;587(1):117-26.

Isolation of cytochrome P-450 components from marmoset liver microsomes by
high-performance liquid chromatography.

Kastner M(1), Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut f√ºr Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Berlin, Germany.

A fast protein liquid chromatographic (FPLC) system with pre-packed and
laboratory-packed columns was used for the analytical and preparative isolation
of marmoset monkey cytochrome P-450 (P450) and NADPH-P450-reductase.
Chromatographic separations also allowed the recovery of cytochrome b5,
NADH-b5-reductase and epoxide hydratase. Cholate-solubilized liver microsomes
from phenobarbital-induced marmosets were crudely purified on
8-aminooctyl-Sepharose or 6-aminohexyl-Sepharose and then fractionated into
several isoenzyme groups using hydroxyapatite. Further purification on Mono S or 
CM-Sepharose and finally on phenyl-Superose, phenyl-Sepharose or octyl-Sepharose 
yielded a P450 fraction which was apparently homogeneous as judged by sodium
dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the automated Phast system
using silver staining. Removal of excess of non-ionic detergent was effected by
hydroxyapatite columns, and this was compared with other methods. For the
isolation of P450 isoenzymes from untreated marmosets, Mono Q columns were
employed and yielded at least two highly purified forms. NADPH-P450-reductase was
recovered from the 8-aminooctyl-Sepharose column or crudely fractionated on
DEAE-Sepharose Fast Flow. Subsequent purification via 2',5'-ADP-Sepharose and
Superose 12 chromatography resulted in a homogeneous preparation.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9673(91)85205-t 
PMID: 1783657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

