

4287. J Chromatogr. 1991 Nov 29;587(1):117-26.

Isolation of cytochrome P-450 components from marmoset liver microsomes by
high-performance liquid chromatography.

Kastner M(1), Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut f√ºr Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Berlin, Germany.

A fast protein liquid chromatographic (FPLC) system with pre-packed and
laboratory-packed columns was used for the analytical and preparative isolation
of marmoset monkey cytochrome P-450 (P450) and NADPH-P450-reductase.
Chromatographic separations also allowed the recovery of cytochrome b5,
NADH-b5-reductase and epoxide hydratase. Cholate-solubilized liver microsomes
from phenobarbital-induced marmosets were crudely purified on
8-aminooctyl-Sepharose or 6-aminohexyl-Sepharose and then fractionated into
several isoenzyme groups using hydroxyapatite. Further purification on Mono S or 
CM-Sepharose and finally on phenyl-Superose, phenyl-Sepharose or octyl-Sepharose 
yielded a P450 fraction which was apparently homogeneous as judged by sodium
dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the automated Phast system
using silver staining. Removal of excess of non-ionic detergent was effected by
hydroxyapatite columns, and this was compared with other methods. For the
isolation of P450 isoenzymes from untreated marmosets, Mono Q columns were
employed and yielded at least two highly purified forms. NADPH-P450-reductase was
recovered from the 8-aminooctyl-Sepharose column or crudely fractionated on
DEAE-Sepharose Fast Flow. Subsequent purification via 2',5'-ADP-Sepharose and
Superose 12 chromatography resulted in a homogeneous preparation.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9673(91)85205-t 
PMID: 1783657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4288. Mol Immunol. 1991 Nov;28(11):1171-81.

A single amino acid substitution in a common African allele of the CD4 molecule
ablates binding of the monoclonal antibody, OKT4.

Lederman S(1), DeMartino JA, Daugherty BL, Foeldvari I, Yellin MJ, Cleary AM,
Berkowitz N, Lowy I, Braunstein NS, Mark GE, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032.

The CD4 molecule is a relatively non-polymorphic 55 kDa glycoprotein expressed on
a subset of T lymphocytes. A common African allele of CD4 has been identified by 
non-reactivity with the monoclonal antibody, OKT4. The genetic basis for the
OKT4- polymorphism of CD4 is unknown. In the present paper, the structure of the 
CD4 molecule from an homozygous CD4OKT4- individual was characterized at the
molecular level. The size of the CD4OKT4- protein and mRNA were indistinguishable
from those of the OKT4+ allele. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to
map the structure of CD4OKT4- cDNAs by amplifying overlapping DNA segments and to
obtain partial nucleotide sequence after asymmetric amplification. PCR was then
used to clone CD4OKT4- cDNAs spanning the coding region of the entire, mature CD4
protein by amplification of two overlapping segments followed by PCR
recombination. The nucleotide sequence of CD4OKT4- cDNA clones revealed a G----A 
transition at bp 867 encoding an arginine----tryptophan substitution at amino
acid 240 relative to CD4OKT4+. Expression of a CD4OKT4- cDNA containing only this
transition, confirmed that the arginine----tryptophan substitution at amino acid 
240 ablates the binding of the mAb OKT4. A positively charged amino acid residue 
at this position is found in chimpanzee, rhesus macaque, mouse and rat CD4
suggesting that this mutation may confer unique functional properties to the
CD4OKT4- protein.

DOI: 10.1016/0161-5890(91)90003-3 
PMID: 1961196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

