

4288. Mol Immunol. 1991 Nov;28(11):1171-81.

A single amino acid substitution in a common African allele of the CD4 molecule
ablates binding of the monoclonal antibody, OKT4.

Lederman S(1), DeMartino JA, Daugherty BL, Foeldvari I, Yellin MJ, Cleary AM,
Berkowitz N, Lowy I, Braunstein NS, Mark GE, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032.

The CD4 molecule is a relatively non-polymorphic 55 kDa glycoprotein expressed on
a subset of T lymphocytes. A common African allele of CD4 has been identified by 
non-reactivity with the monoclonal antibody, OKT4. The genetic basis for the
OKT4- polymorphism of CD4 is unknown. In the present paper, the structure of the 
CD4 molecule from an homozygous CD4OKT4- individual was characterized at the
molecular level. The size of the CD4OKT4- protein and mRNA were indistinguishable
from those of the OKT4+ allele. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to
map the structure of CD4OKT4- cDNAs by amplifying overlapping DNA segments and to
obtain partial nucleotide sequence after asymmetric amplification. PCR was then
used to clone CD4OKT4- cDNAs spanning the coding region of the entire, mature CD4
protein by amplification of two overlapping segments followed by PCR
recombination. The nucleotide sequence of CD4OKT4- cDNA clones revealed a G----A 
transition at bp 867 encoding an arginine----tryptophan substitution at amino
acid 240 relative to CD4OKT4+. Expression of a CD4OKT4- cDNA containing only this
transition, confirmed that the arginine----tryptophan substitution at amino acid 
240 ablates the binding of the mAb OKT4. A positively charged amino acid residue 
at this position is found in chimpanzee, rhesus macaque, mouse and rat CD4
suggesting that this mutation may confer unique functional properties to the
CD4OKT4- protein.

DOI: 10.1016/0161-5890(91)90003-3 
PMID: 1961196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4289. Fertil Steril. 1991 Oct;56(4):764-7.

Horse and marmoset monkey sperm bind to the zona pellucida of salt-stored human
oocytes.

Liu DY(1), Lopata A, Pantke P, Baker HW.

Author information: 
(1)University of Melbourne, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria, Australia.

The present study demonstrates that horse and marmoset monkey sperm can bind to
the human zona of salt-stored oocytes that failed to fertilize in vitro. Marmoset
monkey sperm are also able to penetrate the salt-stored human zona. In contrast, 
human sperm do not bind to the zona of either horse or marmoset monkey oocytes.
These results suggest that human sperm binding to the zona pellucida is more
strictly species-specific than it is for horse and marmoset monkey sperm. In
contrast, horse and marmoset monkey sperm contain receptors recognized by the
human zona.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)54612-3 
PMID: 1915955  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

