

4291. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1991 Oct;259(1):345-55.

FCE 23884, substrate-dependent interaction with the dopaminergic system. I.
Preclinical behavioral studies.

Buonamici M(1), Mantegani S, Cervini MA, Maj R, Rossi AC, Caccia C, Carfagna N,
Carminati P, Fariello RG.

Author information: 
(1)R&D Farmitalia Carlo Erba-Erbamont Group, Central Nervous System Department,
Nerviano, MI, Italy.

FCE 23884, a newly synthetized ergoline derivative, shows dopamine (DA) agonist
or antagonist properties depending on the functional state of the biological
substrate. The compound behaves as a full DA antagonist in normal animals, but
shows full agonist properties in denervated models in the same dose range. In
normal animals, FCE 23884 impairs Sidmans avoidance in rats, reduces spontaneous 
locomotion in mice and monkeys and antagonizes apomorphine-induced climbing
behavior in mice, yawning in rats, emesis in dogs and amphetamine-induced
toxicity in grouped mice. After experimental procedures resulting in severe DA
depletion, FCE 23884 behaves as a powerful DA-agonist mainly at D-1 receptors.
FCE 23884 induces contralateral turning behavior in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned
rats and reverses 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced akinesia
in monkeys and reserpine-induced hypokinesia in mice. These results indicate that
the antagonist or agonist activity of FCE 23884 is substrate-dependent and mostly
related to the presence or absence of DA. This leads to the apparently
paradoxical suggestion that the compound could be useful both in psychotic states
and extrapyramidal diseases, i.e., in clinical conditions characterized by either
excessive or impaired DAergic neurotransmission.


PMID: 1681087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4292. Neurosci Lett. 1991 Sep 30;131(1):117-20.

Distribution and morphology of substance P-immunoreactive structures in the
olfactory bulb and olfactory peduncle of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a primate species.

Sanides-Kohlrausch C(1), Wahle P.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für biophysikalische Chemie, Department of Neurobiology,
Göttingen, F.R.G.

The present study describes the morphology and distribution of substance
P-immunoreactive (SP-ir) elements in the olfactory bulb (OB) and olfactory
peduncle (OP) of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a primate species.
SP-ir neurons are very abundant in the OB and belong to two types. External
tufted cells are present in the glomerular layer (GL), whereas granule cells are 
found in the deeper layers, especially in the granule cell layer (GRL), but also 
scattered in the OP. SP-ir fibers, putatively of central origin, were identified 
in the OP. They ascend into the bulbar layers. The SP-chemoarchitecture of the
marmoset OB and OP does not differ more from rat, guinea pig and cat, than the
SP-chemoarchitecture of these species varies among one another.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(91)90350-3 
PMID: 1724304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

