

4292. Neurosci Lett. 1991 Sep 30;131(1):117-20.

Distribution and morphology of substance P-immunoreactive structures in the
olfactory bulb and olfactory peduncle of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a primate species.

Sanides-Kohlrausch C(1), Wahle P.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für biophysikalische Chemie, Department of Neurobiology,
Göttingen, F.R.G.

The present study describes the morphology and distribution of substance
P-immunoreactive (SP-ir) elements in the olfactory bulb (OB) and olfactory
peduncle (OP) of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a primate species.
SP-ir neurons are very abundant in the OB and belong to two types. External
tufted cells are present in the glomerular layer (GL), whereas granule cells are 
found in the deeper layers, especially in the granule cell layer (GRL), but also 
scattered in the OP. SP-ir fibers, putatively of central origin, were identified 
in the OP. They ascend into the bulbar layers. The SP-chemoarchitecture of the
marmoset OB and OP does not differ more from rat, guinea pig and cat, than the
SP-chemoarchitecture of these species varies among one another.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(91)90350-3 
PMID: 1724304  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4293. J Med Primatol. 1991 Sep;20(7):325-33.

Ontogeny of monooxygenase activities in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Schulz-Schalge T(1), Heger W, Webb J, Kastner M, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Germany.

The pre- and postnatal development of monooxygenases in the liver and adrenal
gland of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) was investigated. Cytochrome P450 
was detected in the fetal adrenal gland, but aldrin epoxidase, ethoxycoumarin
O-deethylase, and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase activities were below detection
limits. Although fetal hepatic cytochrome P450 was not detected, low activities
of aldrin epoxidase and ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase, but no ethoxyresorufin
O-deethylase, could be detected in fetal liver. These enzymes attained adult
marmosets activities when the offspring were approximately 2 months of age.


PMID: 1787526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

