

4295. Anticancer Res. 1991 Sep-Oct;11(5):1711-7.

Phorbol ester promotes growth and transformation of carcinogen-exposed nonhuman
primate cells in vitro.

Marczynska B(1), Khoobyarian N, Chao TS, Tao M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Illinois, College of 
Medicine, Chicago 60612.

Kidney cells established in vitro from a white-lipped marmoset (106) were exposed
to N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) alone or in combination with
12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Low (0.1 micrograms/ml, 4 times),
intermediate (1 microgram/ml) and high (1 microgram/ml, 4 times) doses of MNNG
resulted in 100%, 50% and 2.8% of cell survival, respectively. High and low doses
of MNNG had no effect on cell transformation. Upon exposure of cells to an
intermediate dose of MNNG, 106 cells ecquired immortality and evolved into
permanent cell line, 106-1M. However, the cells retained normal morphology and
anchorage dependence. Chronic applications of TPA (0.1 micrograms/ml, 13 times)
promoted 106-1M cells to morphological transformation and anchorage-independent
growth but not to tumorigenicity in nude mice (106-1MT cell line). Chromosome
analysis revealed only numerical changes in 106 cells and both numerical and
structural aberrations in transformed 106-1MT cells. These changes in marmoset
cells usually reflected cell culture instability leading to either senescence or 
to longer survival of cells in vitro. Chronic treatment with TPA did not result
in downregulation of protein kinase C (PKC) in transformed 106-1MT cells.
Instead, an additional species of PKC appeared in these cells.


PMID: 1768041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4296. Anat Rec. 1991 Sep;231(1):119-24.

FSH in testes of marmosets during development: immunocytochemical localization
and de novo biosynthesis.

Garde SV(1), Sheth AR, Kulkarni SA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

Immunocytochemical localization of FSH was carried out in various cell types of
marmoset testes during development using antisera generated against intact as
well as beta-subunit of human FSH. Significant differences in the intensity as
well as distribution of FSH in various cell types were observed in neonatal,
pubertal, and adult marmosets. Intensity of staining in Leydig cells was maximum 
at day 1 and in adults (1-3 years), whereas it was minimum at 3 months. In
seminiferous tubules (Sertoli cells), FSH was present in trace amount until
puberty and subsequently increased at maturity. Further studies demonstrate de
novo biosynthesis of FSH-like moiety in vitro by testicular tissue, which was age
dependent.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1092310113 
PMID: 1750707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

