

4296. Anat Rec. 1991 Sep;231(1):119-24.

FSH in testes of marmosets during development: immunocytochemical localization
and de novo biosynthesis.

Garde SV(1), Sheth AR, Kulkarni SA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

Immunocytochemical localization of FSH was carried out in various cell types of
marmoset testes during development using antisera generated against intact as
well as beta-subunit of human FSH. Significant differences in the intensity as
well as distribution of FSH in various cell types were observed in neonatal,
pubertal, and adult marmosets. Intensity of staining in Leydig cells was maximum 
at day 1 and in adults (1-3 years), whereas it was minimum at 3 months. In
seminiferous tubules (Sertoli cells), FSH was present in trace amount until
puberty and subsequently increased at maturity. Further studies demonstrate de
novo biosynthesis of FSH-like moiety in vitro by testicular tissue, which was age
dependent.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1092310113 
PMID: 1750707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4297. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1991 Sep;40(1):89-96.

The effects of umespirone as a potential anxiolytic and antipsychotic agent.

Barnes NM(1), Costall B, Domeney AM, Gerrard PA, Kelly ME, Kr√§hling H, Naylor RJ,
Tomkins DM, Williams TJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, West Yorkshire, UK.

Umespirone was compared to buspirone, diazepam and clozapine as a potential
anxiolytic and antipsychotic agent. In the mouse black and white test box,
umespirone was considerably more potent than diazepam or buspirone to reduce
aversive responding, tolerance to its effects was not observed and sedation was
absent, a chronic treatment and withdrawal was not associated with an anxiogenic 
profile, and umespirone prevented the behavioural consequences of withdrawal from
diazepam. Umespirone also had an anxiolytic profile of action in the tests of rat
social interaction and in the marmoset exposed to a human threat. Both umespirone
and clozapine reduced the hyperactivity induced by the infusion of dopamine into 
the nucleus accumbens of rat. In radioligand binding assays umespirone
demonstrated nanomolar affinity for the alpha 1-adrenoceptor and the 5-HT1A and
dopamine D2 receptors. It is concluded that umespirone may present as a novel
psychotropic agent with anxiolytic and antipsychotic potential.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(91)90326-w 
PMID: 1685786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

