

4298. Clin Sci (Lond). 1991 Sep;81(3):387-92.

Kidney renin gene expression after renin inhibition in the marmoset.

Kitami Y(1), Hiwada K, Murakami E, Iwata T, Muneta S, Kokubu T.

Author information: 
(1)2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Ehime University School of Medicine,
Japan.

1. The effects of renin inhibitor ES-8891 on renin synthesis and its secretion by
the kidney were investigated in normotensive sodium-depleted marmosets. We
measured plasma renin activity, plasma immunoreactive renin concentration, plasma
angiotensin II concentration and kidney renin mRNA content after oral
administration of ES-8891 (60 mg day-1 kg-1) for 1 week. 2. The mean blood
pressure was significantly decreased (P less than 0.01) on day 7 after oral
administration of ES-8891. There was no significant change in heart rate during
the administration. 3. Oral administration of ES-8891 for 1 week markedly
decreased the plasma renin activity, the plasma immunoreactive renin
concentration and the plasma angiotensin II concentration (to 18%, 41% and 24% of
the corresponding control values; P less than 0.05 for each, n = 5). 4. The
kidney renin mRNA content in ES-8891-treated marmosets was significantly lower
than that in normal controls (4.2 +/- 3.5 versus 12.8 +/- 5.5 pg/micrograms of
total RNA, means +/- SD, P less than 0.05, n = 5). 5. Oral administration of the 
renin inhibitor ES-8891 for 1 week not only inhibited plasma renin activity but
also decreased renin synthesis and its secretion by the kidney.

DOI: 10.1042/cs0810387 
PMID: 1655341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4299. J Chromatogr. 1991 Aug 21;554(1-2):175-80.

Thermospray liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry for the characterisation of
sulphate ester conjugates.

Bowers GD(1), Higton DM, Manchee GR, Oxford J, Saynor DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemical Pharmacology, Glaxo Group Research Limited,
Hertfordshire, UK.

Formation of polar conjugates is a well documented metabolic pathway for
xenobiotics containing phenolic hydroxyl groups. This paper describes the
analysis of two sulphate ester conjugates by fast atom bombardment mass
spectrometry and thermospray liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Thermospray
liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry proved the more successful technique for 
obtaining the molecular weight of the intact conjugate, but only by removal of
the buffer from the high-performance liquid chromatography eluent.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9673(01)88447-8 
PMID: 1839028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

