

4301. Indian J Exp Biol. 1991 Aug;29(8):715-20.

De novo biosynthesis and localization of inhibin in marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
and rat epididymis.

Hurkadli KS(1), Joseph R, Garde SV, Sheth AR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Bombay, India.

Using specific polyclonal antibodies generated against a 13 Kd human testicular
inhibin, immunocytochemical localization was carried out in epididymis of intact 
and castrated marmoset monkey and rat epididymis. Inhibin was found to be present
in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells of caput, corpus and cauda epididymis. The
intensity of staining and pattern of distribution did not change following
castration. Further, the in vitro biosynthesis of inhibin studied by
incorporating 3H-leucine and precipitating it with specific antibody indicated
maximum biosynthesis in the corpus epididymis in case of marmosets and cauda in
case of rats. Following castration in rats, the epididymal tissue still retained 
the capacity to biosynthesize inhibin. These studies indicate that marmoset and
rat epididymis are capable of biosynthesizing/absorbing inhibin and whose
synthesis does not depend on androgens.


PMID: 1769713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4302. Genomics. 1991 Aug;10(4):1070-2.

High conservation of sequences involved in cystic fibrosis mutations in five
mammalian species.

Gasparini P(1), Nunes V, Dognini M, Estivill X.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Department, Fundació Investigació Sant Pau, Barcelona,
Spain.

Several mutations have been identified in the first nucleotide binding fold (NBF)
of the cystic fibrosis (CF) transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. We
have analyzed the DNA sequences of exons 10 and 11 in five different mammalian
species, marmoset, mouse, cow, pig, and sheep; the amino acid conservation
studied for nine disease mutations; and two "benign" mutations. For exon 10, 87% 
homology at the DNA level and 93.5% at the amino acid level were found for these 
species. For exon 11, the lowest homology (70%) was found in mouse and the
highest in marmoset (93%), whereas the amino acid sequence conservation ranged
from 82.5 to 100%. All codons involved in CF mutations are highly conserved
throughout evolution.

DOI: 10.1016/0888-7543(91)90200-x 
PMID: 1717363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

