

4302. Genomics. 1991 Aug;10(4):1070-2.

High conservation of sequences involved in cystic fibrosis mutations in five
mammalian species.

Gasparini P(1), Nunes V, Dognini M, Estivill X.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Department, Fundació Investigació Sant Pau, Barcelona,
Spain.

Several mutations have been identified in the first nucleotide binding fold (NBF)
of the cystic fibrosis (CF) transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. We
have analyzed the DNA sequences of exons 10 and 11 in five different mammalian
species, marmoset, mouse, cow, pig, and sheep; the amino acid conservation
studied for nine disease mutations; and two "benign" mutations. For exon 10, 87% 
homology at the DNA level and 93.5% at the amino acid level were found for these 
species. For exon 11, the lowest homology (70%) was found in mouse and the
highest in marmoset (93%), whereas the amino acid sequence conservation ranged
from 82.5 to 100%. All codons involved in CF mutations are highly conserved
throughout evolution.

DOI: 10.1016/0888-7543(91)90200-x 
PMID: 1717363  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4303. J Virol. 1991 Aug;65(8):3995-4000.

Isolation of an arenavirus from a marmoset with callitrichid hepatitis and its
serologic association with disease.

Stephensen CB(1), Jacob JR, Montali RJ, Holmes KV, Muchmore E, Compans RW, Arms
ED, Buchmeier MJ, Lanford RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of
Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

Callitrichid hepatitis (CH) is an acute, often fatal viral infection of New World
primates from the family Callitrichidae. The etiologic agent of CH is unknown. We
report here the isolation of an arenavirus from a common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) with CH by using in vitro cultures of marmoset hepatocytes and Vero-E6
cells. Enveloped virions 67 to 133 nm in diameter with ribosomelike internal
structures were seen in infected cultures. Immunofluorescence and Western
immunoblot analysis using CH-specific antisera (principally from animals exposed 
to CH during zoo outbreaks) revealed three antigens in cells infected with this
CH-associated virus (CHV). These antigens had the same electrophoretic mobilities
on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels as did the nucleocapsid, GP2, and
GPC proteins of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). Monoclonal antibodies 
specific for these arenavirus proteins also reacted with the three CHV antigens. 
Conversely, the CH-specific antisera reacted with the nucleocapsid, GP2, and GPC 
proteins of LCMV. CHV thus appears to be a close antigenic relative of LCMV. The 
serologic association of CHV with several CH outbreaks implicate it as the
etiologic agent of this disease.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.65.8.3995-4000.1991 
PMCID: PMC248829
PMID: 1712856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

