

4303. J Virol. 1991 Aug;65(8):3995-4000.

Isolation of an arenavirus from a marmoset with callitrichid hepatitis and its
serologic association with disease.

Stephensen CB(1), Jacob JR, Montali RJ, Holmes KV, Muchmore E, Compans RW, Arms
ED, Buchmeier MJ, Lanford RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of
Alabama, Birmingham 35294.

Callitrichid hepatitis (CH) is an acute, often fatal viral infection of New World
primates from the family Callitrichidae. The etiologic agent of CH is unknown. We
report here the isolation of an arenavirus from a common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) with CH by using in vitro cultures of marmoset hepatocytes and Vero-E6
cells. Enveloped virions 67 to 133 nm in diameter with ribosomelike internal
structures were seen in infected cultures. Immunofluorescence and Western
immunoblot analysis using CH-specific antisera (principally from animals exposed 
to CH during zoo outbreaks) revealed three antigens in cells infected with this
CH-associated virus (CHV). These antigens had the same electrophoretic mobilities
on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gels as did the nucleocapsid, GP2, and
GPC proteins of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). Monoclonal antibodies 
specific for these arenavirus proteins also reacted with the three CHV antigens. 
Conversely, the CH-specific antisera reacted with the nucleocapsid, GP2, and GPC 
proteins of LCMV. CHV thus appears to be a close antigenic relative of LCMV. The 
serologic association of CHV with several CH outbreaks implicate it as the
etiologic agent of this disease.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.65.8.3995-4000.1991 
PMCID: PMC248829
PMID: 1712856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4304. J Med Virol. 1991 Aug;34(4):227-31.

Further evaluation of a live hepatitis A vaccine in marmosets.

Provost PJ(1), Banker FS, Wadsworth CW, Krah DL.

Author information: 
(1)Merck Sharp and Dohme Research Laboratories, West Point, Pennsylvania 19486.

Live, attenuated F' hepatitis A vaccine virus was studied in vivo in Saguinus
labiatus marmosets for possible reversion to virulence, for possible
establishment of persistent infection and for its capacity as a parenterally
administered vaccine to induce immunity to oral infection. Serial transmission of
the virus in S. labiatus, using infectious stool extracts for the second and
third passages, produced no evidence of reversion of the F' vaccine virus to
virulence. Monitoring for live HAV in stools over a 135-day period
post-inoculation of marmosets with the F' vaccine revealed no evidence of
persistent infection. Vaccinated animals were also shown to be resistant to
infection on challenge by the oral route as well as by the previously
demonstrated parenteral route.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890340406 
PMID: 1658214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

