

4304. J Med Virol. 1991 Aug;34(4):227-31.

Further evaluation of a live hepatitis A vaccine in marmosets.

Provost PJ(1), Banker FS, Wadsworth CW, Krah DL.

Author information: 
(1)Merck Sharp and Dohme Research Laboratories, West Point, Pennsylvania 19486.

Live, attenuated F' hepatitis A vaccine virus was studied in vivo in Saguinus
labiatus marmosets for possible reversion to virulence, for possible
establishment of persistent infection and for its capacity as a parenterally
administered vaccine to induce immunity to oral infection. Serial transmission of
the virus in S. labiatus, using infectious stool extracts for the second and
third passages, produced no evidence of reversion of the F' vaccine virus to
virulence. Monitoring for live HAV in stools over a 135-day period
post-inoculation of marmosets with the F' vaccine revealed no evidence of
persistent infection. Vaccinated animals were also shown to be resistant to
infection on challenge by the oral route as well as by the previously
demonstrated parenteral route.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890340406 
PMID: 1658214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4305. Arterioscler Thromb. 1991 Jul-Aug;11(4):1030-41.

Lipoprotein(a) and apolipoprotein(a) in a New World monkey, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Association of variable plasma lipoprotein(a) levels with a
single apolipoprotein(a) isoform.

Guo HC(1), Michel JB, Blouquit Y, Chapman MJ.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM Unité 321, Hôpital de la Pitié, Paris, France.

In an earlier report (Chapman et al, Biochemistry 1979;18:5096-5108), we
suggested that the common marmoset may represent an important model for the study
of human plasma lipoprotein metabolism. We now extend the interest of this monkey
model to the study of lipoprotein(a) (Lp[a]) and apolipoprotein(a) (apo[a]).
Density gradient ultracentrifugal fractionation of marmoset plasma revealed a
bimodal distribution of Lp(a), with one peak of concentration occurring in
association with very low density lipoproteins (VLDLs) and a second in the
density range 1.040-1.080 g/ml. The dense Lp(a) subspecies displayed
physicochemical properties (chemical composition, particle size, and
electrophoretic mobility) that closely resembled those of its counterpart in
humans and baboons but that were distinct from those of low density lipoprotein
(LDL). Furthermore, the particle size of marmoset Lp(a) was invariant (31 nm)
over the density interval 1.040-1.080 g/ml, whereas that of LDL decreased
progressively with an increase in density (approximately 26-25.2 nm). Use of
polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to human apo(a) and of a polyclonal antibody
to marmoset Lp(a) allowed immunologic identification of a single apo(a) isoform
in the marmoset whose size was similar to that of apo B-100; apo(a) and apo B-100
were associated in Lp(a) particles by a disulfide linkage. The total protein mass
of apo-Lp(a) was estimated to be 800,000 or more by electrophoresis in sodium
dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide-agarose gels. The amino acid compositions of
marmoset and human apo(a) resembled each other but were distinct from those of
the corresponding forms of apo B-100. Immunologic evidence is provided for a high
degree of cross reactivity between apo(a) in marmosets, baboons, and humans,
supporting the idea of the existence of a marked degree of structural homology
between these proteins. In addition, electroimmunoblotting of marmoset apo(a) and
marmoset plasminogen showed that these proteins shared certain epitopes in
common, suggesting that marmoset apo(a) may possess kringle-like structural
features. Finally, despite possession of a single apo(a) isoform, marmoset Lp(a) 
levels varied over a 100-fold range (0.5-49 mg/dl plasma). Considered together,
our present findings suggest that the common marmoset monkey constitutes a unique
model in which to study the regulation of apo(a) gene expression and the
posttranslational processing of apo(a), as well as factors that modulate the
synthesis, intravascular metabolism, and cellular catabolism of Lp(a).

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.11.4.1030 
PMID: 1829630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

