

431. Front Neurosci. 2019 Aug 30;13:913. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2019.00913. eCollection
2019.

Rightward Tympanic Membrane Temperature Bias During Acute Restraint-Isolation
Stress in Marmoset Monkeys.

Pereira LC(1)(2), Maior RS(1)(3), Barros M(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of Brasília, Brasília,
Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasília,
Brasília, Brazil.
(3)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasília, Brasília, Brazil.

Restraint is widely used to experimentally assess stress-induced effects.
Surprisingly, little is known on how marmosets - an increasingly used small
primate - process and respond to restraint stress. Here, we assessed blood
cortisol concentration and tympanic membrane temperatures (TMT) in adult marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) during 0, 15, or 30 min of restraint and social 
isolation in a small cage. TMT reflects blood flow to the cerebral hemispheres,
which in turn reflects neural activity. Baseline TMT were subtracted from
post-test measures to establish shifts in blood flow possibly induced by
ipsilateral brain activity. Cortisol was assayed immediately after the post-test 
assessment of the TMT. Marmosets restrained-isolated for 15 or 30 min had higher 
cortisol levels than the non-restrained-isolated group. Furthermore, significant 
changes in TMT were detected only in the right ear of the restrained-isolated
groups, this effect being unrelated to overall body temperature or the time
needed to capture/measure the TMT. Adult marmosets thus readily perceive a
significant reduction in their range of movement as an event of sufficient
negative intensity and/or duration to activate a pertinent neuroendocrine
response. Also, an asymmetrical shift in their TMT reflects that such an aversive
event may be rightwardly biased in this primate.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2019.00913 
PMCID: PMC6729121
PMID: 31543757 


432. Am J Primatol. 2019 Sep;81(9):e23037. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23037. Epub 2019 Sep 12.

Noninvasive cardiac psychophysiology as a tool for translational science with
marmosets.

Murphy AM(1)(2), Ross CN(3)(4)(5), Bliss-Moreau E(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)California National Primate Research Center, University of California, Davis, 
California.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of California, Davis, California.
(3)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University, San Antonio,
Texas.
(4)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(5)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, UT Health, San Antonio,
Texas.

The importance of marmosets for comparative and translational science has grown
in recent years because of their relatively rapid development, birth cohorts of
twins, family social structure, and genetic tractability. Despite this, they
remain understudied in investigations of affective processes. In this
methodological note, we establish the validity of using noninvasive commercially 
available equipment to record cardiac physiology and compute indices of autonomic
nervous system activity-a major component of affective processes. Specifically,
we recorded electrocardiogram and impedance cardiogram, from which we derived
heart rate, respiration rate, measures of high-frequency heart rate variability
(indices of parasympathetic autonomic nervous system activity), and ventricular
contractility (an index of sympathetic autonomic nervous system activity). Our
methods produced physiologically plausible data, and further, animals with
increased heart rates during testing were also more reactive to isolation from
their social partner and presentation of novel objects, though no relationship
was observed between reactivity and specific indices of parasympathetic or
sympathetic nervous system activity.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23037 
PMCID: PMC6989041
PMID: 31515850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

