

4310. Matrix. 1991 Apr;11(2):125-32.

Immunohistochemical distribution of the collagen types IV, V, VI and glycoprotein
laminin in the healthy rat, marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and human gingivae.

Romanos G(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Bernimoulin JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Periodontology, Dental School North, Freie Universität Berlin,
FRG.

The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the localization of collagen types
IV, V and VI as well as the glycoprotein laminin in biopsies of healthy rat,
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and human gingivae. The slices, after the use of
indirect immunofluorescence (incubation with antibodies against these
extracellular matrix components), showed the same distribution with the anti-type
IV and laminin antibodies on the basement membranes of the epithelium, blood
vessels and nerves. Collagen type V, as a filamentous, and collagen type VI, as
microfibrillar components, were localized in a similar pattern in the different
species. In contrast to the other species, collagen type VI could not be found
near the basement membranes of vessels and nerves of the marmoset gingiva. This
result shows differences between human and monkey tissues, but not between rat
and human gingivae, and conforms the heterogeneity of collagen type VI in the
various cell and tissue types.

DOI: 10.1016/s0934-8832(11)80216-7 
PMID: 1906570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4311. J Immunol. 1991 Apr 1;146(7):2176-84.

Development of a monoclonal antibody, anti-6C2, which is involved in the
interaction of CD4 T helper cells and activated B cells.

Torimoto Y(1), Sugita K, Weinberg DS, Dang NH, Donahue C, Letvin NL, Schlossman
SF, Morimoto C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Tumor Immunology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115.

We have developed a mAb anti-6C2, by immunizing mice with T cell line derived
from the Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset). Anti-6C2 is reactive with
approximately 50% of unfractionated T cells, 50% of CD4+ cells, and 40% of CD8+
cells. Regarding CD4+ cells, anti-6C2-reactive cells substantially overlap with
the CD29+CD45RO+ Th cell population. Moreover, anti-6C2 can divide these T cells 
into 6C2+ and 6C2- subpopulations. The CD4+CD45RO+6C2+ cells maximally respond to
soluble Ag such as tetanus toxoid and provide strong helper function for
PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis. Most interestingly, anti-6C2 was also reactive
against activated B cells but not resting B cells; furthermore, this epitope was 
inducible through activation of resting B cells or B cell line. Biochemical
characterization showed that anti-6C2 precipitated two glycoproteins with the
relative molecular weights of 180,000 and 95,000 from 125I-surface labeled cell
lysate. Sequential immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated that these two
glycoproteins were the lymphocyte function-associated antigen (LFA-1) Ag complex 
(CD11a/18). Significantly, although this antibody did not inhibit cytotoxic
killer T cell responses and Ag-induced T cell proliferation as did conventional
anti-LFA-1, it did inhibit PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis. Because 6C2
expression was induced after B cell activation, the above results strongly
suggest that the 6C2 molecule may play a role in the interaction of CD4 helper
cells and activated B lymphocytes.


PMID: 1706389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

