

4311. J Immunol. 1991 Apr 1;146(7):2176-84.

Development of a monoclonal antibody, anti-6C2, which is involved in the
interaction of CD4 T helper cells and activated B cells.

Torimoto Y(1), Sugita K, Weinberg DS, Dang NH, Donahue C, Letvin NL, Schlossman
SF, Morimoto C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Tumor Immunology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115.

We have developed a mAb anti-6C2, by immunizing mice with T cell line derived
from the Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset). Anti-6C2 is reactive with
approximately 50% of unfractionated T cells, 50% of CD4+ cells, and 40% of CD8+
cells. Regarding CD4+ cells, anti-6C2-reactive cells substantially overlap with
the CD29+CD45RO+ Th cell population. Moreover, anti-6C2 can divide these T cells 
into 6C2+ and 6C2- subpopulations. The CD4+CD45RO+6C2+ cells maximally respond to
soluble Ag such as tetanus toxoid and provide strong helper function for
PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis. Most interestingly, anti-6C2 was also reactive
against activated B cells but not resting B cells; furthermore, this epitope was 
inducible through activation of resting B cells or B cell line. Biochemical
characterization showed that anti-6C2 precipitated two glycoproteins with the
relative molecular weights of 180,000 and 95,000 from 125I-surface labeled cell
lysate. Sequential immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated that these two
glycoproteins were the lymphocyte function-associated antigen (LFA-1) Ag complex 
(CD11a/18). Significantly, although this antibody did not inhibit cytotoxic
killer T cell responses and Ag-induced T cell proliferation as did conventional
anti-LFA-1, it did inhibit PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis. Because 6C2
expression was induced after B cell activation, the above results strongly
suggest that the 6C2 molecule may play a role in the interaction of CD4 helper
cells and activated B lymphocytes.


PMID: 1706389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4312. Physiol Behav. 1991 Mar;49(3):557-62.

Penile spines affect copulatory behaviour in a primate (Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Centre, Centre International de Recherches MÃ©dicales de Franceville,
Gabon.

Androgen-dependent, keratinized "spines" occur on the glans penis in many
rodents, primates and other mammals. Since penile spines overlie dermal tactile
receptors, they may play a role in copulatory behaviour. An experiment was
conducted to test this hypothesis. Sixteen sexually experienced adult male
marmosets were paired with ovariectomized females before, and after, removal of
penile spines (using thioglycollate cream applied to the glans under anaesthesia)
or a sham operation. Spine removal resulted in an increased duration of
preintromission pelvic thrusting (mean +/- s.e.m. from 6.87 +/- 1.09 to 14.94 +/-
3.32 s, p = 0.05) and of intromitted thrusting (from 1.73 +/- 0.11 to 2.0 +/-
0.11 s, p less than 0.05). Three males exhibited partial intromissions during
some postspinectomy tests, an effect which had not been observed prior to the
operation. Sham operations had no behavioural effects. Results indicate that
penile spines play a significant (but not indispensible) role in sensory feedback
during copulation in this primate species.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(91)90280-2 
PMID: 2062934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

