

4314. In Vivo. 1991 Mar-Apr;5(2):153-7.

An evaluation of two animal models for dietary influences on reproductive
toxicology.

Brinkworth MH(1), Anderson D.

Author information: 
(1)British Industrial Biological Research Association, Carshalton, Surrey,
England.

Chronic protein deficiency (8 weeks) was examined in marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) and sub-acute (1 week) methionine- and choline-deprivation was
investigated in F344 rats. The marmosets were considered to have become
protein-deficient but there was no alteration in sperm morphology, either at the 
end of the diet or 5 weeks later. Weight loss was also observed in rats on the
methionine- and choline-free diet and they had significantly decreased sperm
counts 4 weeks after the end of treatment. However, there was no effect on sperm 
morphology, or on the proportion of cytosine residues that were methylated in the
sperm DNA.


PMID: 1768785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4315. Neurosci Lett. 1991 Feb 11;123(1):115-8.

Neurochemical and behavioural features induced by chronic low dose treatment with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the common marmoset:
implications for Parkinson's disease?

Russ H(1), Mihatsch W, Gerlach M, Riederer P, Przuntek H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Bochum, F.R.G.

Protracted long-term treatment of common marmosets with 15 doses (0.5-4.5 mg/kg, 
i.p.) of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP; total dose 25 mg/kg,
given over 29 days) caused transitory changes in motor behaviour reminiscent of
human Parkinson's disease. 16 days from the start of MPTP administration, all
animals showed motor impairment, consisting of profound akinesia and a rigid
posture, but in no case resting tremor. Biogenic amines were measured in
nigrostriatal regions one month after finishing MPTP treatment. There was a
profound loss of dopamine and serotonin in the substantia nigra and in the
striatum; noradrenaline was only reduced in the putamen. Continuous analyses of
the concentrations of biogenic amine metabolites in the CSF during this study
revealed persistent dopaminergic disturbances and temporary alterations in
serotoninergic and noradrenergic function.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(91)90171-o 
PMID: 1712088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

