

4315. Neurosci Lett. 1991 Feb 11;123(1):115-8.

Neurochemical and behavioural features induced by chronic low dose treatment with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in the common marmoset:
implications for Parkinson's disease?

Russ H(1), Mihatsch W, Gerlach M, Riederer P, Przuntek H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Bochum, F.R.G.

Protracted long-term treatment of common marmosets with 15 doses (0.5-4.5 mg/kg, 
i.p.) of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP; total dose 25 mg/kg,
given over 29 days) caused transitory changes in motor behaviour reminiscent of
human Parkinson's disease. 16 days from the start of MPTP administration, all
animals showed motor impairment, consisting of profound akinesia and a rigid
posture, but in no case resting tremor. Biogenic amines were measured in
nigrostriatal regions one month after finishing MPTP treatment. There was a
profound loss of dopamine and serotonin in the substantia nigra and in the
striatum; noradrenaline was only reduced in the putamen. Continuous analyses of
the concentrations of biogenic amine metabolites in the CSF during this study
revealed persistent dopaminergic disturbances and temporary alterations in
serotoninergic and noradrenergic function.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(91)90171-o 
PMID: 1712088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4316. J Neurochem. 1991 Feb;56(2):500-8.

[3H]harman binding experiments. II: Regional and subcellular distribution of
specific [3H]harman binding and monoamine oxidase subtypes A and B activity in
marmoset and rat.

May T(1), Pawlik M, Rommelspacher H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropsychopharmacology, Free University, Berlin, F.R.G.

[3H]Harman (1-[3H]methyl-beta-carboline) was used in a novel radioligand binding 
assay to label selectively and with high affinity monoamine oxidase (MAO) type A.
The concentration of the enzyme was determined in six CNS regions of the primate 
species marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and of the rat: hypothalamus, hippocampus, 
cerebellum, cerebral cortex, striatum, and spinal cord. The specific [3H]harman
binding in the CNS of the marmoset reveals the same pharmacological profile and
other characteristics (affinity, saturability, and reversibility) as in the CNS
of the rat. The regional distribution of the [3H]harman binding density (Bmax) in
the CNS exhibits a distinct pattern in the marmoset and the rat and a 35
(hypothalamus) to 75% (hippocampus) lower Bmax in the marmoset than in the rat.
The Bmax values of [3H]harman binding in the CNS of the marmoset and the rat
combined as well as those from visceral organs of the rat (liver, heart, lung,
thymus, spleen, and kidney) correlated positively and highly significantly with
the respective Vmax values of specific MAO activity of the A type but not of the 
B type, determined with kynuramine as the substrate. In subcellular fractionation
experiments with rat cerebral cortex, the highest [3H]harman binding density
(Bmax) and MAO-A activity (Vmax) were detected in mitochondrial fractions and
severalfold lower values in the synaptosomal membrane fraction. In conclusion, we
suggest that [3H]harman binding is a biochemical tool as a selective marker to
quantify MAO-A in the CNS of different mammalian species as well as in
extraneuronal tissues.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.1991.tb08178.x 
PMID: 1988553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

