

4316. J Neurochem. 1991 Feb;56(2):500-8.

[3H]harman binding experiments. II: Regional and subcellular distribution of
specific [3H]harman binding and monoamine oxidase subtypes A and B activity in
marmoset and rat.

May T(1), Pawlik M, Rommelspacher H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropsychopharmacology, Free University, Berlin, F.R.G.

[3H]Harman (1-[3H]methyl-beta-carboline) was used in a novel radioligand binding 
assay to label selectively and with high affinity monoamine oxidase (MAO) type A.
The concentration of the enzyme was determined in six CNS regions of the primate 
species marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and of the rat: hypothalamus, hippocampus, 
cerebellum, cerebral cortex, striatum, and spinal cord. The specific [3H]harman
binding in the CNS of the marmoset reveals the same pharmacological profile and
other characteristics (affinity, saturability, and reversibility) as in the CNS
of the rat. The regional distribution of the [3H]harman binding density (Bmax) in
the CNS exhibits a distinct pattern in the marmoset and the rat and a 35
(hypothalamus) to 75% (hippocampus) lower Bmax in the marmoset than in the rat.
The Bmax values of [3H]harman binding in the CNS of the marmoset and the rat
combined as well as those from visceral organs of the rat (liver, heart, lung,
thymus, spleen, and kidney) correlated positively and highly significantly with
the respective Vmax values of specific MAO activity of the A type but not of the 
B type, determined with kynuramine as the substrate. In subcellular fractionation
experiments with rat cerebral cortex, the highest [3H]harman binding density
(Bmax) and MAO-A activity (Vmax) were detected in mitochondrial fractions and
severalfold lower values in the synaptosomal membrane fraction. In conclusion, we
suggest that [3H]harman binding is a biochemical tool as a selective marker to
quantify MAO-A in the CNS of different mammalian species as well as in
extraneuronal tissues.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.1991.tb08178.x 
PMID: 1988553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4317. Am J Physiol. 1991 Feb;260(2 Pt 2):H379-85.

Differential effects of dietary fish oil on myocardial prostaglandin I2 and
thromboxane A2 production.

Abeywardena MY(1), McLennan PL, Charnock JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organization, Australia.

Marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were maintained for 24 mo on a standard
primate diet [reference (Ref) diet] or this diet supplemented (8% wt/wt) with
either sheep fat (SF), sunflower seed oil (SSO), or tuna fish oil (TFO). The
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) of myocardial phospholipids demonstrated
significant alterations as a result of the dietary (n-3) or (n-6) lipid
supplementation. The reduction (P less than 0.05) in prostaglandin (PG) I2 in
PUFA diet-fed groups (SSO, 113.8 +/- 7.8; TFO, 87.9 +/- 8.2 compared with Ref,
153.9 +/- 7.4 pg/mg dry wt) seems to be due to the rate limitation of the
endogenous substrate, because the addition of exogenous arachidonic acid (AA) has
obliterated the dietary difference. However, AA did not increase the basal PGI2
production in the Ref or SF dietary groups, which differed from that for
thromboxane (Tx) A2 where 2- to 5-fold stimulation was observed. It is suggested 
that there exists a preferential channeling mechanism to direct AA derived from
phospholipase hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids toward PGI2 synthesis.
Conversely, the bulk of the AA for TxA2 biosynthesis appears to be supplied by a 
cytosolic nonesterified fatty acid pool. The effective replacement of AA of this 
pool and a specific inhibition of TxA2 synthetase enzyme complex by the (n-3)
PUFA of fish oil are offered as likely mechanisms for the greater inhibition of
TxA2 compared with PGI2 production observed in the present and previous studies. 
The present data on myocardial eicosanoids correlate well with the beneficial
qualities of (n-3) and (n-6) dietary PUFA on cardiac function that we have
reported previously.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.1991.260.2.H379 
PMID: 1899979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

