

4323. Berl Munch Tierarztl Wochenschr. 1991 Jan 1;104(1):4-7.

[Yersinia pseudotuberculosis in New World monkeys].

[Article in German]

Brack M(1), Gatesman TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Primatenzentrum Göttingen.

It is reported on four cases of pseudotuberculosis in 2 Saimiri sciureus, 1
Callithrix jacchus/penicillata hybrid and 1 S. oedipus. The animals came from two
different groups, one being infected with Y. pseudotuberculosis serotype I, the
other with Y. pseudotuberculosis serotype II. All cases showed intestinal
infection of thermophile Campylobacter. Remarkable were severe haemorrhagic
components and the distinct RHS-proliferation, especially in the mesenteric
lymphatic nodes.


PMID: 2015031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4324. Dev Pharmacol Ther. 1991;16(3):164-75.

CO2 breath tests using 14C-caffeine, 14C-methacetin and 14C-phenacetin for
assessing postnatal development of monooxygenase activities in rats and
marmosets.

Krüger N(1), Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Kinderklinik der Freien Universität Berlin, FRG.

The time course in which the activities of cytochrome P450-dependent
drug-metabolizing enzymes develop during the perinatal period differs for various
types of monooxygenases as well as for various animal species. Using
[3-methyl14C]-, [7-methyl14C]-caffeine, [14CH3]-methacetin and
[14C2H5]-phenacetin as substrates in breath tests, the developmental changes in
the rates of 14CO2 formation, due to changes in the activity of monooxygenases,
were studied in rats and marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). In rats a rate of
0.006% of the dose administered/min was found to be exhaled as 14CO2 in the
caffeine breath tests on the 1st day of life. This value increased gradually
reaching adult rates of 14CO2 exhalation after 21 days for [3-methyl14C]-caffeine
and after 25 days for [7-methyl14C]-caffeine. In marmosets the rate of 14CO2
exhalation for [3-methyl14C]- and [7-methyl14C]-caffeine was also low at birth
and developed gradually reaching adult values of 14CO2 exhalation within 120-200 
days. In rats the capacity for dealkylation of methacetin and phenacetin
developed much faster compared with caffeine: 9 days postnatally, the exhalation 
of 14CO2 reached adult values. Offspring of marmosets reached adult values of
14CO2 exhalation at 8 days postnatally when using [14CO2]-methacetin as substrate
and at 30 days postnatally using [14C2H5]-phenacetin in the breath test. The
results suggest that the monooxygenases for the N-demethylation of caffeine, the 
O-demethylation of methacetin and the O-deethylation are rather substrate
specific in the two species studied. The breath tests used are sensitive methods 
for assessing the development of different monooxygenases in vivo in rats and
marmosets, and they may well (using 13C-labelled substrates) be applicable for
studies in children to monitor effects of certain environmental pollutants.


PMID: 1914790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

