

4324. Dev Pharmacol Ther. 1991;16(3):164-75.

CO2 breath tests using 14C-caffeine, 14C-methacetin and 14C-phenacetin for
assessing postnatal development of monooxygenase activities in rats and
marmosets.

Krüger N(1), Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Kinderklinik der Freien Universität Berlin, FRG.

The time course in which the activities of cytochrome P450-dependent
drug-metabolizing enzymes develop during the perinatal period differs for various
types of monooxygenases as well as for various animal species. Using
[3-methyl14C]-, [7-methyl14C]-caffeine, [14CH3]-methacetin and
[14C2H5]-phenacetin as substrates in breath tests, the developmental changes in
the rates of 14CO2 formation, due to changes in the activity of monooxygenases,
were studied in rats and marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). In rats a rate of
0.006% of the dose administered/min was found to be exhaled as 14CO2 in the
caffeine breath tests on the 1st day of life. This value increased gradually
reaching adult rates of 14CO2 exhalation after 21 days for [3-methyl14C]-caffeine
and after 25 days for [7-methyl14C]-caffeine. In marmosets the rate of 14CO2
exhalation for [3-methyl14C]- and [7-methyl14C]-caffeine was also low at birth
and developed gradually reaching adult values of 14CO2 exhalation within 120-200 
days. In rats the capacity for dealkylation of methacetin and phenacetin
developed much faster compared with caffeine: 9 days postnatally, the exhalation 
of 14CO2 reached adult values. Offspring of marmosets reached adult values of
14CO2 exhalation at 8 days postnatally when using [14CO2]-methacetin as substrate
and at 30 days postnatally using [14C2H5]-phenacetin in the breath test. The
results suggest that the monooxygenases for the N-demethylation of caffeine, the 
O-demethylation of methacetin and the O-deethylation are rather substrate
specific in the two species studied. The breath tests used are sensitive methods 
for assessing the development of different monooxygenases in vivo in rats and
marmosets, and they may well (using 13C-labelled substrates) be applicable for
studies in children to monitor effects of certain environmental pollutants.


PMID: 1914790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4325. Arch Toxicol. 1991;65(3):213-9.

Polyhalogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the immune system. 2. In 
vitro effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on lymphocytes of
venous blood from man and a non-human primate (Callithrix jacchus).

Neubert R(1), Jacob-Müller U, Helge H, Stahlmann R, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Federal Republic of Germany.

The effect of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on poke weed
mitogen-stimulated proliferation and differentiation of peripheral lymphocytes
was studied in vitro with cells from a non-human primate (marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus) and from man. Monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry
(FACScan) were used for analysis. The extent of the overall mitogen-stimulated
proliferation of isolated lymphocytes in vitro from marmoset blood was only
slightly reduced in the presence of TCDD compared to the solvent control (0.01%
DMSO). However, incubation with TCDD in the culture medium together with the
mitogen led to a pronounced decrease in the percentage of the lymphocyte subset
with the surface marker CD4, and a concomitant increase in the percentage of CD8+
cells. The lowest concentration found to be effective in vitro was 1 x 10(-13) M 
TCDD (25 fg TCDD/ml). When culturing lymphocytes from human blood of different
donors under identical conditions in the presence of TCDD and the mitogen,
corresponding effects were observed to those seen with marmoset cells. A closer
analysis of the T lymphocyte subsets affected revealed the CD4+ CDw29+
(helper-inducer cells) to be the main target for the action of TCDD. A clear-cut 
change in the percentage of this subpopulation was induced at concentrations as
low as 1 x 10(-13) M TCDD. The development of the IL-2-marker in culture was only
slightly affected by TCDD, and concentrations of 1 x 10(-12) M were required to
slightly reduce the number of CD2+CD25+ cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02307311 
PMID: 1905127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

