

4327. J Neural Transm Park Dis Dement Sect. 1991;3(3):203-13.

Synergism of the AMPA-antagonist NBQX and the NMDA-antagonist CPP with L-dopa in 
models of Parkinson's disease.

Löschmann PA(1), Lange KW, Kunow M, Rettig KJ, Jähnig P, Honoré T, Turski L,
Wachtel H, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, United Kingdom.

Degeneration of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons in Parkinson's disease results
in an overactivity of excitatory glutamatergic projections from the subthalamic
nucleus to the output nuclei of the basal ganglia resulting in rigidity and
akinesia. In theory pharmacological blockade of these overactive systems should
improve parkinsonian symptomatology. The selective AMPA-antagonist NBQX and the
competitive NMDA-antagonist CPP are not effective in animal models of Parkinson's
disease when given alone but ameliorate parkinsonian symptomatology and stimulate
locomotor activity when co-administered with a threshold dose of L-Dopa. These
synergistic effects are seen in the MPTP-treated
(1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) common marmoset and the rat with
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the substantia nigra. Therefore 
competitive NMDA and non-NMDA antagonists may offer a new therapeutic strategy
for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02259538 
PMID: 1835581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4328. Acta Neurol Scand Suppl. 1991;136:29-36.

Subclinical damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine system by MPTP as a model of
preclinical Parkinson's disease: a review.

Burns RS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology School of Medicine, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, 
Tennessee 37212.

The study of subtle changes in motor and cognitive function after exposure to
MPTP might serve as a guide to the very earliest stages of Parkinson's disease.
Studies in nonhuman primates and man exposed to MPTP who remained asymptomatic or
recovered completely are reviewed. The question of the relationship between the
degree and extent of damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine system and changes in
motor and cognitive (behavioral) function is addressed. What guidance they
provide in the study of subclinical or preclinical Parkinson's disease is
discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1991.tb05017.x 
PMID: 1801534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

