

4330. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1991;88(4):380-5.

[Wound healing of the cornea of New World monkeys after surface keratectomy:
Er:YAG-excimer laser].

[Article in German]

Kahle G(1), Daqun X, Seiler T, Schröter-Kermani C, Wollensak J.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Berlin, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

Corneal wound healing was studied after photoablation with an excimer laser (193 
nm, 43 pulses at 180 mJ/cm2 [symbol: see text] 11 microns ablation depth, optical
zone 2.0 mm) and with an erbium-YAG laser (2.94 microns, 5 pulses at 2.5 J/cm2
[symbol: see text] 50 microns ablation depth, optical zone 1.6 mm). The corneas
of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were prepared 5 and 10 days and 4 and 25 weeks 
after photoablation. The sections were investigated by conventional light
microscopy or exposed to antibodies against collagen types I, III, IV, VII and
laminin and stained by indirect immunofluorescence. Macroscopically, the
time-course of wound healing was comparable to that seen, after laser
keratomileusis for correction of myopia in humans (epithelium closure after 24-48
h, subepithelial haze: erbium-YAG less than or equal to excimer). Histologically 
the time-course of wound healing could be schematically divided into three
phases: (1) epithelial hyperplasia, inhomogeneous new synthesis of collagen
fibrils subepithelially; (2) reorganization of the epithelium, hyperplasia of
keratocytes, incipient reorganization of the collagen fibrils, increase in
subepithelial haze; (3) reorganization of the collagen fibrils, decrease in
subepithelial haze. The distribution of collagen type VII during the corneal
wound healing suggests that the subepithelial haze observed during the healing
process after laser keratomileusis for correction of myopia is based on the
anchoring fibrils of the basement membrane.


PMID: 1786926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4331. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1991;57(2):111-4.

Stability of wild callitrichid groups.

Price EC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust, Trinity, Jersey, Channel Islands.

DOI: 10.1159/000156572 
PMID: 1786906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

