

4332. Exp Brain Res. 1991;87(2):283-94.

Topographical mapping of the thalamocortical projections in rodents and
comparison with that in primates.

Höhl-Abrahão JC(1), Creutzfeldt OD.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ciencias Fisiologicas, Universidade de Brasilia, DF.

The general topographical organization of the thalamo-cortical projection of two 
rodents, the Siberian hamster (Phodopus sungorus) and the Guinea pig (Cavia
aperta) was investigated with the HRP-method and compared with that of the new
world primate marmoset (Cal-lithrix jacchus) as shown in a companion study by
Brysch et al. (1990). HRP was injected into various regions of the cortex in
different animals and hemispheres, and plots were made of the retrogradely
stained thalamic projection neurons. The thalamocortical projection is virtually 
identical in both rodent species. It is topological throughout in that nearby
cortical injections label nearby, though overlapping cell groups in the thalamus.
Cortical injections in a rostro-caudal progression labelled thalamic projection
zones on top of each other, layered like tiles on a roof or fish scales,
beginning in the rostromedial and ending in the caudo-dorsal thalamus. The
progression vector of thalamic zones projecting successively from more rostral to
more caudal cortical zones is twisted and turns from a predominantly mediolateral
direction in the anterior thalamus to an essentially ventro-dorsal direction in
the posterior thalamus In the marmoset, the thalamo-cortical topography follows
the same topological rule, with the exception of the lateral geniculate body
which is translocated latero-ventrally and separated from the rest of the
thalamus as in all primates. This suggests a general thalamo-cortical mapping
rule common to all mammals which can be related to gradients and timing of cell
birth in the thalamus. It is proposed that this mapping rule is the consequence
of successive appositions of neurons in the medio-ventral thalamus during
ontogenetic development.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00231845 
PMID: 1722758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4333. J Neural Transm Park Dis Dement Sect. 1991;3(2):99-108.

Neuropeptide levels in the basal ganglia of aged common marmosets following
prolonged treatment with MPTP.

Taylor MD(1), de Ceballos ML, Rose S, Chong PN, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, Biomedical
Sciences Division, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Aged common marmosets were treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP; 0.5-2.0 mg/kg/week i.p.) for 
16 or 24 weeks, observed for a total of 30 weeks and then killed for measurement 
of biochemical parameters in basal ganglia. The MPTP treatment induced a marked
depletion in dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid
levels in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, the concentrations of
five neuropeptides: [Met5]-enkephalin, [Leu5]-enkephalin, cholecystokinin,
substance P and neurotensin as measured by a combined HPLC/RIA method, remained
unaltered in all basal ganglia regions examined. Enkephalin precursor levels, as 
reflected by cryptic [Met5]-enkephalin content, were increased in the putamen,
but not in the caudate nucleus, as a consequence of MPTP administration. Cryptic 
[Leu5]-enkephalin content remained unchanged in the striatum of MPTP treated
marmosets. Overall, these results suggest an increase in striatal
[Met5]-enkephalin release following chronic MPTP treatment of aged marmosets.
However, the chronic treatment of aged marmosets with MPTP does not reproduce the
neuropeptide alterations characteristic of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02260885 
PMID: 1716907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

