

4333. J Neural Transm Park Dis Dement Sect. 1991;3(2):99-108.

Neuropeptide levels in the basal ganglia of aged common marmosets following
prolonged treatment with MPTP.

Taylor MD(1), de Ceballos ML, Rose S, Chong PN, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, Biomedical
Sciences Division, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Aged common marmosets were treated with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP; 0.5-2.0 mg/kg/week i.p.) for 
16 or 24 weeks, observed for a total of 30 weeks and then killed for measurement 
of biochemical parameters in basal ganglia. The MPTP treatment induced a marked
depletion in dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid
levels in the caudate nucleus and putamen. In contrast, the concentrations of
five neuropeptides: [Met5]-enkephalin, [Leu5]-enkephalin, cholecystokinin,
substance P and neurotensin as measured by a combined HPLC/RIA method, remained
unaltered in all basal ganglia regions examined. Enkephalin precursor levels, as 
reflected by cryptic [Met5]-enkephalin content, were increased in the putamen,
but not in the caudate nucleus, as a consequence of MPTP administration. Cryptic 
[Leu5]-enkephalin content remained unchanged in the striatum of MPTP treated
marmosets. Overall, these results suggest an increase in striatal
[Met5]-enkephalin release following chronic MPTP treatment of aged marmosets.
However, the chronic treatment of aged marmosets with MPTP does not reproduce the
neuropeptide alterations characteristic of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02260885 
PMID: 1716907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4334. Exp Brain Res. 1991;84(2):254-65.

The local domain for divergence of subcortical afferents to the striate and
extrastriate visual cortex in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): a
multiple labelling study.

Kaske A(1), Dick A, Creutzfeldt OD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institute for Biophysical Chemistry,
GÃ¶ttingen-Nikolausberg, Federal Republic of Germany.

In the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), the cortical projection from the
pulvinar and other diencephalic structures into the striate and prestriate cortex
was investigated with various fluorescent retrograde tracers. Single cortical
injections as well as multiple injections at distances of 1-2 mm with one tracer 
into an extended but coherent cortical region were applied. Fields with multiple 
injections were placed so that they touched each other (minimal distances 2 to 3 
mm). Retrogradely labelled cells in the LGN and/or the pulvinar were arranged in 
coherent columns, volumes or slabs, but cell volumes resulting from neighbouring 
cortical injections overlapped at their border (for details of the
thalamo-cortical topography see the companion paper Dick et al. (1991]. Double
labelled cells (dl) were only found in the zones of overlap of the cell volumes
labelled by the respective tracers. The relative number of dl-cells in these
overlap zones was 6.2 +/- 3.1%. The dl-frequency was the same in the various
nuclei of the pulvinar and the LGN. In the main layers of LGN, dl-cells were
found only in the overlap zone of two injection fields into area 17, but a few
dl-cells were found in interlaminar cells after injections into area 17 and 18.
Maximal cortical distances between injection fields which produced dl in the
pulvinar, were 3 to exceptionally 4 mm but dl was highest at injection distances 
less than or equal to 2.5 mm and decreased sharply at wider distances. Such
overlap zones were concerned with identical or overlapping regions of visual
field representation in the cortex and probably also in the pulvinar. Although in
individual experiments up to four different tracers were injected into different 
striate/prestriate regions, often embracing the same visual field representation,
individual cells in the pulvinar showed dl from maximally only two tracers
injected into neighbouring cortical regions. We conclude that dl in the posterior
thalamic projection nuclei is determined essentially by cortical distance and
thus reflects the local domain of branching of thalamo-cortical afferents.
Pruning of such branches during development may further restrict bifurcating
axons to identical visual field representations, but representation of identical 
visual field regions in different visual areas is not, per se, a sufficient
condition for dl. It is not found if such regions are further apart from each
other than the typical local domain of 2-3 mm, exceptionally up to 4 mm in one
experiment after injections into area 17 and MT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00231445 
PMID: 1712315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

