

4338. Comp Biochem Physiol A Comp Physiol. 1991;100(4):891-6.

The effect of dietary change on in vitro erythrocyte haemolysis, skin lesions and
alopecia in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ghebremeskel K(1), Harbige LS, Williams G, Crawford MA, Hawkey C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Brain Chemistry and Human Nutrition, Hackney Hospital, London,
U.K.

1. The effect of dietary change on common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
exhibiting high in vitro erythrocyte haemolysis, skin lesions and alopecia was
investigated. 2. The experimental diet was low in lipid, high in vitamin E and
was devoid of n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids. 3. There were
significant increases in the concentrations of plasma alpha-tocopherol (vitamin
E) (P less than 0.05), all-trans retinol (vitamin A) (P less than 0.001) and
total lipid (P less than 0.025), and a reduction in fibrinogen (P less than 0.02)
concentration and neutrophil count (P less than 0.02). 4. Moreover, the mean in
vitro erythrocyte haemolysis declined from an initial value of 64% to less than
2%, and there was a regression of skin lesions and alopecia with complete fur
regrowth. 5. The amelioration of the conditions appear to be due to high
circulating vitamin E which provided protection against oxidative stress, and the
correction of membrane n-6:n-3 balance.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(91)90310-9 
PMID: 1685382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4339. Brain Res Dev Brain Res. 1990 Dec 15;57(2):269-77.

Cell proliferation in the subependymal layer of the postnatal marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus.

McDermott KW(1), Lantos PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Institute of Psychiatry, London, U.K.

Cells of the subependymal layer (SEL) have been shown to be capable of continued 
postnatal cell division throughout life in rodents. To determine if the primate
brain behaves similarly, proliferative activity in the SEL of the marmoset has
been investigated by tritiated thymidine autoradiography and bromodeoxyuridine
immunocytochemistry. Both methods revealed the presence of DNA-synthesizing cells
at all postnatal ages studied. The labelling index (LI), low at birth, reached a 
peak of almost 4% at one month but decreased gradually thereafter. In animals
older than two years the LI was extremely low and labelled cells were rarely seen
anywhere in the brain. The cell density of the SEL, in contrast to the low LI,
was highest in neonates and decreased linearly with increasing age.
Bromodeoxyuridine immunoreactivity revealed the distribution of proliferating
cells in the SEL and neighbouring regions. Such cells were most abundant around
the anterior lateral ventricle where the SEL was most evident. Proliferating
cells were numerous in neonates, though not adjacent to the ependyma where counts
for the LI were made, and were mainly located dorsally and ventrally at the
junctions of the corpus callosum and caudate nucleus.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-3806(90)90053-2 
PMID: 2073725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

