

4349. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1990 Oct-Dec;85(4):459-67.

Experimental infection with Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis and Leishmania
(Leishmania) amazonensis in the marmoset, Callithrix penicillata
(Primates:Callithricidae).

Cuba CA(1), Ferreira V, Bampi M, Magalhães A, Marsden PD, Vexenat A, De Mello MT.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Parasitologia, Faculdade de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade de 
Brasília.

Fourteen marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) were inoculated intradermally with
promastigotes and/or amastigotes of Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis (L. (V) b.)
strains MHOM/BR/83/LTB-300 MHOM/BR/85/LTB-12 MHOM/BR/81/LTB-179 and
MHOM/BR/82/LTB-250. The evolution of subsequent lesions was studied for 15 to 75 
weeks post-inoculation (PI). All but 3 of the L. (V) b. injected marmosets
developed a cutaneous lesion at the point of inoculation after 3 to 9 weeks,
characterized by the appearance of subcutaneous nodules containing parasites.
Parasites were isolated by culture (Difco Blood Agar) from all 11 positive
animals. The maximum size of the lesions was variable and ranged between 37 mm2
to 107 mm2. Ulceration of primary nodules became evident after 3 to 12 weeks in
all infected marmosets, but was faster and larger in 5 of the 11 animals. The
active lesions persisted in 9 out of 11 Callithrix until the end of the
observation period, which varied from 15-75 weeks. In 3 animals spontaneous
healing of their lesions (13 to 25 weeks, PI) was observed but with cryptic
parasitism. In another 2 infected animals there was regression followed by
reactivation of the cutaneous lesions. The appearance of smaller satellite
lesions adjacent to primary ones, as well as metastatic lesions to the ear lobes,
were documented in 2 animals. Promastigotes of L. (Leishmania) amazonensis (L.
(L) a.) MHOM/BR/77/LTB-16 were inoculated in 1 marmoset. This animal remained
chronically infected for 6 months and the lesion developed in a similar manner to
L. (V) b. infected marmosets. No significant differences in clinical and
parasitological behaviour were observed between promastigote or amastigote
derived infections of the 2 species.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761990000400011 
PMID: 2152198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4350. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1990 Sep;29(3):197-207.

[Radiotelemetric studies of the body temperature of white-tufted monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus)].

[Article in German]

Petry H(1), Maier J.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Physiologische Chemie und Ernährungsphysiologie,
Tierärztliche Fakultät, Universität München.

A newly developed telemetry system was used to study deep body temperature (BT)
of two adult male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The BT-curves of both
monkeys showed a similar clear circadian rhythm with a range up to 3.5 degrees C.
At environmental temperature of 28 degrees C (ET) the BT of the monkeys varied in
the daytime dependent on their spontaneous activity, with little individual
differences between 37.5 degrees C and 39.3 degrees C; at night the BT of the
remarkably deeply-sleeping animals decreased to an average at 35.8 degrees C.
Elevating ET up to 30 degrees C effected an increase of BT by 0.6 degrees C, both
during day and night. On the contrary, reducing ET to 24 degrees C the BT
increased only at night, by 0.2 degrees C at ad libitum food intake and 1.0
degrees C at fasting. Measurements of BT by inserted rectal thermometer caused,
compared with telemetry, an average at 0.4 degrees C higher values.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02021559 
PMID: 2251862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

