

4350. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1990 Sep;29(3):197-207.

[Radiotelemetric studies of the body temperature of white-tufted monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus)].

[Article in German]

Petry H(1), Maier J.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Physiologische Chemie und Ernährungsphysiologie,
Tierärztliche Fakultät, Universität München.

A newly developed telemetry system was used to study deep body temperature (BT)
of two adult male common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The BT-curves of both
monkeys showed a similar clear circadian rhythm with a range up to 3.5 degrees C.
At environmental temperature of 28 degrees C (ET) the BT of the monkeys varied in
the daytime dependent on their spontaneous activity, with little individual
differences between 37.5 degrees C and 39.3 degrees C; at night the BT of the
remarkably deeply-sleeping animals decreased to an average at 35.8 degrees C.
Elevating ET up to 30 degrees C effected an increase of BT by 0.6 degrees C, both
during day and night. On the contrary, reducing ET to 24 degrees C the BT
increased only at night, by 0.2 degrees C at ad libitum food intake and 1.0
degrees C at fasting. Measurements of BT by inserted rectal thermometer caused,
compared with telemetry, an average at 0.4 degrees C higher values.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02021559 
PMID: 2251862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4351. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1990 Sep;29(3):192-6.

Studies on the ascorbic acid metabolism of callitrichid monkeys by 14C isotope
excretion technique.

Flurer CI(1), Geyer G, Berg D, Rambeck WA.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Physiologische Chemie und Ernährungsphysiologie,
Tierärztliche Fakultät, Universität München, FRG.

Recently it has been found that the two monkey species Callithrix jacchus and
Saguinus fuscicollis, both belonging to the same New World monkey family
Callitrichidae and held in the same colony under identical conditions, had
extremely different serum ascorbate levels. To examine the ascorbic acid
metabolism the 14C-excretion of orally given 1-14C-ascorbic acid was studied
under conditions of marginal and abundant vitamin C supply and under intentional 
stress. There were large differences in the mode of 14C excretion between low and
high ascorbate supply. The differences were smaller between stress/no stress
conditions intraindividually than between the two species, but they were in the
same manner. In comparable trials S. fuscicollis reacted such that a higher
status of stress can be supposed in this species.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02021558 
PMID: 2251861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

