

4351. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1990 Sep;29(3):192-6.

Studies on the ascorbic acid metabolism of callitrichid monkeys by 14C isotope
excretion technique.

Flurer CI(1), Geyer G, Berg D, Rambeck WA.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Physiologische Chemie und Ernährungsphysiologie,
Tierärztliche Fakultät, Universität München, FRG.

Recently it has been found that the two monkey species Callithrix jacchus and
Saguinus fuscicollis, both belonging to the same New World monkey family
Callitrichidae and held in the same colony under identical conditions, had
extremely different serum ascorbate levels. To examine the ascorbic acid
metabolism the 14C-excretion of orally given 1-14C-ascorbic acid was studied
under conditions of marginal and abundant vitamin C supply and under intentional 
stress. There were large differences in the mode of 14C excretion between low and
high ascorbate supply. The differences were smaller between stress/no stress
conditions intraindividually than between the two species, but they were in the
same manner. In comparable trials S. fuscicollis reacted such that a higher
status of stress can be supposed in this species.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02021558 
PMID: 2251861  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4352. J Endocrinol. 1990 Sep;126(3):489-95.

Inhibin secretion during the ovulatory cycle and pregnancy in the common marmoset
monkey.

Smith KB(1), Lunn SF, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

Changes in plasma concentrations of immunoreactive inhibin in the reproductively 
cyclic, pregnant and ovariectomized female marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
were measured with a heterologous radioimmunoassay. The pattern of inhibin
secretion in five marmosets studied individually during four consecutive cycles
was shown to resemble that of progesterone. In these animals, data were pooled
according to stage of cycle on the basis of plasma progesterone concentrations.
Mean values for inhibin were 5465 and 4972 U/l during the early and late
follicular phase. Concentrations rose during the luteal phase to 8431, 12,246 and
12,557 U/l for the early, mid- and late luteal phase respectively. The hormonal
profile of inhibin during the normal cycle is similar in both marmoset and
stumptailed macaque; however, the marmoset has a 28-fold greater level of inhibin
during the luteal phase. In six marmosets in which pregnancy occurred, inhibin
concentrations showed no decline at the end of the conceptual cycle and remained 
increased with respect to the follicular phase throughout the subsequent
gestation. Inhibin levels were non-detectable (less than 1000 U/l) in
ovariectomized and acyclic marmosets. These results suggest that the corpus
luteum is the major source of inhibin in this New World monkey, in common with
man and the Old World primates.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1260489 
PMID: 2212937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

