

4352. J Endocrinol. 1990 Sep;126(3):489-95.

Inhibin secretion during the ovulatory cycle and pregnancy in the common marmoset
monkey.

Smith KB(1), Lunn SF, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

Changes in plasma concentrations of immunoreactive inhibin in the reproductively 
cyclic, pregnant and ovariectomized female marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
were measured with a heterologous radioimmunoassay. The pattern of inhibin
secretion in five marmosets studied individually during four consecutive cycles
was shown to resemble that of progesterone. In these animals, data were pooled
according to stage of cycle on the basis of plasma progesterone concentrations.
Mean values for inhibin were 5465 and 4972 U/l during the early and late
follicular phase. Concentrations rose during the luteal phase to 8431, 12,246 and
12,557 U/l for the early, mid- and late luteal phase respectively. The hormonal
profile of inhibin during the normal cycle is similar in both marmoset and
stumptailed macaque; however, the marmoset has a 28-fold greater level of inhibin
during the luteal phase. In six marmosets in which pregnancy occurred, inhibin
concentrations showed no decline at the end of the conceptual cycle and remained 
increased with respect to the follicular phase throughout the subsequent
gestation. Inhibin levels were non-detectable (less than 1000 U/l) in
ovariectomized and acyclic marmosets. These results suggest that the corpus
luteum is the major source of inhibin in this New World monkey, in common with
man and the Old World primates.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1260489 
PMID: 2212937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4353. J Neuroendocrinol. 1990 Aug 1;2(4):419-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2826.1990.tb00426.x.

Central Oxytocin Stimulates Luteinizing Hormone Release in the Marmoset, a
Primate which Fails to Show Lactationally-lnduced Infertility.

O'Byrne KT(1), Lunn SF, Coen CW.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, 37 Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9EW, UK.

In several species, including humans, suckling is known to suppress pulsatile
gonadotrophin secretion and substantially reduce fertility (1). During suckling
high titres of oxytocin are present in both plasma (2, 3) and cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF) (4) and there is some evidence that oxytocin is inhibitory to gonadotrophin
secretion by an action on t h e central nervous system, (5, 6). The common
marmoset, however, has a different physiological response and fails to show
lactational infertility; ovarian cyclicity is resumed immediately post-partum
(7). We have therefore examined the effect of centrally administered oxytocin on 
luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in this species. We report that LH release was
stimulated with a rapid:esponse and in a dose-dependent manner by oxytocin
injected into t h e third cerebral ventricle. In contrast, oxytocin administered 
intravenously was without effect on LH secretion. These results clearly indicate,
for the first time, a stimulatory role for oxytocin in LH secretion in the
marmoset, a species which fails to demonstrate lactational infertility.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.1990.tb00426.x 
PMID: 19215367 

