

4353. J Neuroendocrinol. 1990 Aug 1;2(4):419-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2826.1990.tb00426.x.

Central Oxytocin Stimulates Luteinizing Hormone Release in the Marmoset, a
Primate which Fails to Show Lactationally-lnduced Infertility.

O'Byrne KT(1), Lunn SF, Coen CW.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, 37 Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9EW, UK.

In several species, including humans, suckling is known to suppress pulsatile
gonadotrophin secretion and substantially reduce fertility (1). During suckling
high titres of oxytocin are present in both plasma (2, 3) and cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF) (4) and there is some evidence that oxytocin is inhibitory to gonadotrophin
secretion by an action on t h e central nervous system, (5, 6). The common
marmoset, however, has a different physiological response and fails to show
lactational infertility; ovarian cyclicity is resumed immediately post-partum
(7). We have therefore examined the effect of centrally administered oxytocin on 
luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in this species. We report that LH release was
stimulated with a rapid:esponse and in a dose-dependent manner by oxytocin
injected into t h e third cerebral ventricle. In contrast, oxytocin administered 
intravenously was without effect on LH secretion. These results clearly indicate,
for the first time, a stimulatory role for oxytocin in LH secretion in the
marmoset, a species which fails to demonstrate lactational infertility.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.1990.tb00426.x 
PMID: 19215367 


4354. Okajimas Folia Anat Jpn. 1990 Aug;67(2-3):97-109.

The facial artery of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Takeda Y(1), Okuda H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Osaka Dental University, Japan.

The facial artery and its ramifications in 7 adult common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) were studied by the plastic injection method. The findings obtained are 
discussed in comparison with those for other primates. In the submandibular
region, the facial artery arose from the external carotid artery at the height of
the atlas via the linguofacial trunk on 10 of the total of 14 sides examined and 
independently on the other 4 sides. This common trunk always gave rise to the
superior thyroid artery. The facial artery passed anterolaterally between the
styloglossus muscle and the intermediate tendon of the digastricus muscle, giving
off the styloglossal and the submandibular glandular branches, and
anteroinferiorly medial to the pterygoideus medialis muscle. In a position
anterior to this muscle, the submental artery and masseteric branch were derived.
The submental artery gave off the medial pterygoid, the digastric, the cutaneous,
the sublingual glandular and the mylohyoid branches, and then continued up to the
median line, where it terminated to supply the genioglossus muscle. In the facial
region, the facial artery passed anterosuperiorly along the anterior margin of
the masseter muscle on 12 sides and away from it forwards on 2 sides, giving off 
the premasseteric branch in one of these 2 sides. It gave rise to the cutaneous, 
the buccal and the buccinator branches, the inferior labial artery and the
communicating branch with the zygomatic artery. It terminated to divide into the 
superior labial and the naris lateral arteries, although the latter was lacking
on 4 sides. The inferior labial artery gave off the mandibular marginal, the
inferior labial marginal and the inferior labial glandular branches and
terminated to anastomose with the mental artery. The superior labial artery
divided into the superficial and deep branches, each of which continued as a
nasal septal branch. The facial artery of the common marmoset usually ascended
along the anterior margin of the masseter muscle and did not reach the medial
angle of the eye.

DOI: 10.2535/ofaj1936.67.2-3_97 
PMID: 2216318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

