

4355. J Pharmacol Methods. 1990 Aug;24(1):9-18.

Screening procedure for assessment of ototoxicity in the common marmoset.

Kuzel RA(1), Smith JM, Trennery PN.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pathology and Toxicology, Glaxo Group Research Ltd., Ware,
Hertfordshire, United Kingdom.

Detection of drug-induced ototoxicity in safety evaluation studies of novel
chemical entities is rarely attempted. Where such examinations are included, they
usually rely on reflex testing. The Brainstem Auditory Evoked Response can be
measured with the use of externally positioned electrodes, and it monitors
electrophysiologic responses to sound from the cochlear nerve and associated
structures of the 8th cranial nerve. These responses have been reproducibly
measured in sedated marmosets and the method shown to be a sensitive detector of 
hearing loss caused by loop diuretics or aminoglycoside antibiotics.
additionally, where hearing damage is reversible, recovery can also be monitored.
It is proposed that where a sensitive marker for ototoxicity is considered
necessary as part of a multifaceted study investigating in vivo drug safety, this
procedure may prove advantageous over existing methods.

DOI: 10.1016/0160-5402(90)90045-m 
PMID: 2214803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4356. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1990 Jul 16;1045(2):164-73.

Incorporation and effects of dietary eicosapentaenoate (20:5(n-3)) on plasma and 
erythrocyte lipids of the marmoset following dietary supplementation with
differing levels of linoleic acid.

McMurchie EJ(1), Rinaldi JA, Burnard SL, Patten GS, Neumann M, McIntosh GH, Abbey
M, Gibson RA.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO (Australia), Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory,
O'Halloran Hill.

The effect of dietary eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, 20:5(n-3), as the ethyl ester) 
on plasma lipid levels and the incorporation of EPA into erythrocyte and plasma
lipids were investigated in the marmoset monkey. Marmosets were fed high
mixed-fat diets (14.5% total fat) supplemented with or without 0.8% EPA for 30
weeks. Markedly elevated plasma cholesterol (16.4 mmol/l) was induced by an
atherogenic-type diet but with EPA supplementation, plasma cholesterol increased 
to only 6.6 mmol/l. Plasma triacylglycerol levels were not elevated with an
atherogenic type diet. Substantial EPA incorporation was evident for plasma
phospholipid, triacylglycerol and cholesterol ester fractions. The proportion of 
docosapentaenoic acid (22:5(n-3)) but not docosahexaenoic acid (22:6(n-3)) was
also elevated in these plasma lipid fractions. Greatest incorporation of EPA
occurred when it was administered with an atherogenic type diet having a P:M:S
(polyunsaturated:monounsaturated:saturated) fatty acid ratio of about 0.2:0.6:1.0
in comparison to the control diet of 1.0:1.0:1.0. Incorporation of EPA and
22:5(n-3)) into erythrocyte phospholipids was also apparent and this was at the
expense of linoleic acid (18:2(n-6)). These results in the marmoset highlight
both the cholesterol-lowering properties of EPA and the extent of its
incorporation into plasma lipids and erythrocyte membrane phospholipids with far 
greater incorporation occurring when the level of dietary linoleic acid was
reduced.

DOI: 10.1016/0005-2760(90)90146-o 
PMID: 2378908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

