

4357. J Comp Neurol. 1990 Jul 8;297(2):165-81.

Distribution of two morphologically distinct subsets of serotoninergic axons in
the cerebral cortex of the marmoset.

Hornung JP(1), Fritschy JM, TÃ¶rk I.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, Lausanne, Switzerland.

The serotoninergic innervation of the marmoset (New World monkey, Callithrix
jacchus) cerebral cortex has been analyzed by using immunocytochemistry. The use 
of a sensitive monoclonal antibody against serotonin allowed the visualization of
the fine morphology of individual axons. Two types of terminal axons were
demonstrated: one has sparse, small, ovoid varicosities (dia. less than 1
micron), and the other has large, spheroidal varicosities (up to 5 microns in
dia.), which are more densely clustered. The first type of axon is distributed
through all cortical layers, with a characteristic laminar distribution that
varies from area to area. The second type of axons was distributed sparsely in
all regions but was markedly denser in the frontal and anterior parietal lobes,
and in the hippocampal formation. Axons with large varicosities typically
surrounded certain cell bodies and proximal dendrites, forming pericellular
arrays, or baskets. These morphological specializations were most frequent in the
frontal and anterior parietal cortex, where they were found around stellate and
horizontal cells in layer I and around stellate and bipolar cells in layer II and
III. Similar baskets were also found in the hippocampal formation, mainly along
the border between the hilus and the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus,
across the CA4 field, and at each side of the pyramidal cell layer of the CA3
regions. The distribution and cellular morphology of the cell surrounded by the
5-HT basket fibres were suggestive of a subpopulation of interneurons, possibly
GABAergic and/or peptidergic. In agreement with previous reports on the
innervation of the cerebral cortex of other mammalian species, the marmoset
cerebral cortex is innervated by two separate subsystems of serotoninergic axons.
One of these may have a strong and specific influence on the cortical inhibitory 
circuitry, via relay through cortical interneurons.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902970202 
PMID: 2115053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4358. Arteriosclerosis. 1990 Jul-Aug;10(4):633-47.

Isolation and characterization of plasma lipoproteins of common marmoset monkey. 
Comparison of effects of control and atherogenic diets.

Crook D(1), Weisgraber KH, Boyles JK, Mahley RW.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Foundation Laboratoreis for Cardiovascular Disease, Department of
Pathology, University of California, San Francisco 94140.

This study examines the potential of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) to serve as a model for human lipoprotein metabolism and
atherosclerosis. The lipoproteins of animals fed a low-fat, low-cholesterol diet 
and a high-fat (12% wt/wt lard), high-cholesterol (0.34% wt/wt) diet were
characterized by the combination of sequential ultracentrifugation and Pevikon
block electrophoresis. Based on chemical and physical properties, equivalents of 
human very low density lipoproteins (VLDL), low density lipoproteins (LDL), and
high density lipoproteins (HDL), including and HDL-with apolipoprotein E
subclass, were demonstrated. In control animals, whose plasma cholesterol
concentration was 140.1 +/- 20.2 mg/dl (means +/- SD), approximately 40% of the
plasma cholesterol was transported by LDL as compared with approximately 70% in
humans. The cholesterol-fed marmosets segregated into two groups: hypo- and
hyper-responders. The hyper-responders had plasma cholesterol levels of 450 to
970 mg/ml. The hypercholesterolemia was associated with elevated concentrations
of VLDL, intermediate density lipoproteins, and LDL; in addition, these
lipoproteins were enriched in cholesteryl esters relative to lipoproteins
isolated from control animals. The HDL (d greater than 1.09 g/ml) levels did not 
change in response to cholesterol feeding, although the HDL-with apolipoprotein E
found in the d = 1.02 to 1.09 g/ml fraction increased approximately fivefold.
Based on immunological characteristics and sialic acid content, the common
marmoset appeared to lack a lipoprotein(a) equivalent. The results of a
short-term feeding study (11 months) suggest that this monkey was susceptible to 
the development of diet-induced atherosclerosis. The hyper-responsive animals
developed foam cell lesions and moderately proliferative intimal lesions,
predominantly within the thoracic aorta. In summary, the results of our studies
indicate that the common marmoset monkey potentially is a useful model for the
study of both lipoprotein metabolism and diet-induced atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.10.4.633 
PMID: 2114868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

