

4360. Eur J Pharmacol. 1990 May 31;181(1-2):97-103.

1-Methyl-4-(2'-methylphenyl)-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (2'-methyl-MPTP) is less 
neurotoxic than MPTP in the common marmoset.

Rose S(1), Nomoto M, Jackson EA, Gibb WR, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, Biomedical
Sciences Division, King's College, London, U.K.

Four adult marmosets were treated with increasing doses of
1-methyl-4-(2'-methylphenyl)-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (2'-methyl-MPTP) in the
range 0.23-4.3 mg/kg i.p. to give a cumulative dose of 11.0-11.6 mg/kg over a
6-10 day period. After 4 days of treatment, and as the dosage was gradually
increased, the animals exhibited mild motor deficits. These abnormalities slowly 
declined over the following 1-6 week period. In contrast, similar treatment of
common marmosets with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (1-4
mg/kg i.p.) for 3-5 days in a cumulative dose of 6.9-9.2 mg/kg produced gross
impairment of motor function which persisted throughout the 5 weeks period of
observation. Administration of 2'-methyl-MPTP for 6-10 days caused some decrease 
in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), but not homovanillic acid
(HVA) content in the caudate nucleus in animals 5-6 weeks after the start of
treatment. There was a small decrease in [3H]dopamine uptake into putamen
synaptosomes. This contrasted with the marked decreases in all these parameters
observed after MPTP treatment of common marmosets. Histological examination of
the substantia nigra from the four animals treated with 2'-methyl-MPTP did not
show degeneration or loss of dopamine-containing cell bodies in the zona
compacta. In contrast, MPTP caused severe destruction of these pigmented nigral
neurones. In the common marmoset 2'-methyl-MPTP does not appear to show the same 
neurotoxic action as MPTP itself. This contrasts with findings in the mouse where
2'-methyl-MPTP is more toxic to dopamine-containing cells of substantia nigra
than MPTP.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(90)90249-6 
PMID: 2117541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4361. J Immunol. 1990 May 15;144(10):3726-35.

Genetically distinct cell populations in naturally occurring bone marrow-chimeric
primates express similar MHC class I gene products.

Watkins DI(1), Chen ZW, Hughes AL, Hodi FS, Letvin NL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Regional Primate Research Center,
Southborough, MA 01772.

The cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus) is a naturally occurring "A" +
"B"----"A" bone marrow-chimeric species. These primates usually are born as
dizygotic twins and, due to placental vascular anastomoses, develop sharing each 
others' bone marrow elements. Strikingly, almost 50% of the PBL of a member of a 
twin pair are derived from the hematopoietic stem cells of its cotwin. To clarify
the mechanisms underlying the maintenance of tolerance in these stable chimeras, 
MHC gene products have been biochemically characterized in cloned, genetically
distinct, male and female lymphocytes from two male/female cotton-top tamarin
twin pairs. Extensive MHC class II sharing between the genetically distinct cell 
populations was not seen in the two twin pairs. This was consistent with the MHC 
class II polymorphism seen in the species. However, the MHC class I gene products
expressed by one member of a twin pair were almost identical to those expressed
by its cotwin. A human minisatellite probe demonstrated restriction fragment
length polymorphism in DNA from these animals, indicating extensive polymorphism.
Thus, MHC class I sharing did not occur due to inbreeding in these animals.
Additionally, another bone marrow-chimeric primate species, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), expresses MHC class I molecules with low levels of
variation. These studies suggest that the stable chimerism of bone
marrow-chimeric primates may be facilitated by MHC class I similarity between the
genetically distinct bone marrow derived-cell populations in their circulation.


PMID: 2110210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

