

4362. J Endocrinol. 1990 May;125(2):233-9.

Pituitary-testicular function is suppressed by an LHRH antagonist but not by an
LHRH agonist in the marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Dixson AF, Sandow J, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

The use of pituitary desensitization by an LHRH agonist (buserelin) to examine
pituitary-testicular function was investigated in a New World primate. Six adult 
male marmoset monkeys were injected s.c. with an LHRH agonist implant (1.5 mg in 
a rod 0.5 cm long). Pharmacokinetics, determined by radioimmunoassay of urinary
buserelin, revealed a rapid initial release of the agonist followed by a steady
decline during a 200-day period. The LHRH agonist treatment resulted in a rapid
initial rise in plasma LH followed by a return to mean values similar to those
seen in the control samples by 7 days after implantation. Using the present
protocol, no evidence of subsequent pituitary desensitization or suppression of
testicular function was observed, plasma concentrations of LH and testosterone
remaining within the normal range during the 200-day study period. In contrast,
pituitary-testicular function was suppressed in the male marmoset after blockade 
of pituitary LHRH receptors by an LHRH antagonist. Five adults were treated with 
a single s.c. injection of the antagonist
[Ac-D-Nal(2)1,D-pCl-Phe2,D-Trp3,D-Ser(Rha)6,AzGlyNH2(10)]-LHRH at a dose of 300
micrograms/kg. The LHRH antagonist induced a marked suppression of plasma LH and 
testosterone by 6-8 h, the low levels being maintained for 24-48 h. These results
show that, whereas treatment with an LHRH antagonist can inhibit
pituitary-testicular function in the male marmoset, it may be that
desensitization cannot be induced by the LHRH agonist used.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1250233 
PMID: 2165119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4363. Biol Reprod. 1990 May-Jun;42(5-6):808-14.

Suppression of bioactive luteinizing hormone and testosterone by a progesterone
antagonist ZK 98.734 in adult male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Kholkute SD(1), Patil RK, Sharma S, Elger WA, Puri CP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR)3 Parel, Bombay, India.

The effects of a progesterone antagonist ZK 98.734 on release of bioactive
luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone were studied in adult male common
marmosets by using the following experimental protocols: (1) the blocking of the 
nocturnal rise in testosterone levels by ZK 98.734, (2) the pharmacodynamic
effects of ZK 98.734 on testosterone and LH levels, (3) the reversal of ZK
98.734-induced decrease in testosterone by treatment with human chorionic
gonadotropin (hCG), and (4) the blocking of estradiol-induced positive feedback
release of LH by ZK 98.734. Sixteen adult male common marmosets were used for
different experiments after resting them for at least 4 wk between experiments.
Testosterone and bioactive LH levels were measured by specific radioimmunoassay
and in vitro bioassay methods, respectively. Treatment (i.m.) of male common
marmosets (n = 6/group) with ZK 98.734 (1 mg or 5 mg/day) at 1700 h for 3
consecutive days significantly (p less than 0.05) suppressed the nocturnal (2200 
h) rise in testosterone levels. The effects of the two doses were not
dose-related; however, the decrease on the first day of treatment was more
pronounced with the 5-mg dose than with the 1-mg dose. Diurnal rhythms were
restored during the post-treatment period. Similarly, treatment with ZK 98.734 (5
mg, n = 8/group) at 1000 h caused a decrease in testosterone and LH levels. The
levels were significantly (p less than 0.05) lower at 3 and 6 h after treatment
compared to pretreatment levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod42.5.808 
PMID: 2116922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

