

4363. Biol Reprod. 1990 May-Jun;42(5-6):808-14.

Suppression of bioactive luteinizing hormone and testosterone by a progesterone
antagonist ZK 98.734 in adult male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Kholkute SD(1), Patil RK, Sharma S, Elger WA, Puri CP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR)3 Parel, Bombay, India.

The effects of a progesterone antagonist ZK 98.734 on release of bioactive
luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone were studied in adult male common
marmosets by using the following experimental protocols: (1) the blocking of the 
nocturnal rise in testosterone levels by ZK 98.734, (2) the pharmacodynamic
effects of ZK 98.734 on testosterone and LH levels, (3) the reversal of ZK
98.734-induced decrease in testosterone by treatment with human chorionic
gonadotropin (hCG), and (4) the blocking of estradiol-induced positive feedback
release of LH by ZK 98.734. Sixteen adult male common marmosets were used for
different experiments after resting them for at least 4 wk between experiments.
Testosterone and bioactive LH levels were measured by specific radioimmunoassay
and in vitro bioassay methods, respectively. Treatment (i.m.) of male common
marmosets (n = 6/group) with ZK 98.734 (1 mg or 5 mg/day) at 1700 h for 3
consecutive days significantly (p less than 0.05) suppressed the nocturnal (2200 
h) rise in testosterone levels. The effects of the two doses were not
dose-related; however, the decrease on the first day of treatment was more
pronounced with the 5-mg dose than with the 1-mg dose. Diurnal rhythms were
restored during the post-treatment period. Similarly, treatment with ZK 98.734 (5
mg, n = 8/group) at 1000 h caused a decrease in testosterone and LH levels. The
levels were significantly (p less than 0.05) lower at 3 and 6 h after treatment
compared to pretreatment levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod42.5.808 
PMID: 2116922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4364. Vet Rec. 1990 Apr 28;126(17):429-31.

Plasma vitamins A and E and hydrogen peroxide-induced in vitro erythrocyte
haemolysis in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ghebremeskel K(1), Williams G, Harbige L, Spadetta M, Summers P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Biochemistry, Institute of Zoology, London.

Plasma total lipid, cholesterol, all-trans retinol (vitamin A) and
alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) concentrations, and the susceptibility of
erythrocytes to hydrogen peroxide-induced haemolysis in vitro were investigated
in healthy laboratory-bred common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The
concentrations of alpha-tocopherol and total cholesterol were similar to those of
control human subjects. The mean lipid concentration was higher (P less than
0.025) and the retinol concentration lower (P less than 0.001) in the marmosets. 
The susceptibility of the erythrocytes of the marmosets to hydrogen
peroxide-induced haemolysis was high, both in absolute value and relative to the 
controls. Changes in phospholipid and fatty acid composition might have rendered 
the red cells susceptible to oxidative stress.


PMID: 2111954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

