

4365. Int J Cancer. 1990 Apr 15;45(4):763-72.

Establishment of immortalized primate epithelial cells with sub-genomic EBV DNA.

Karran L(1), Teo CG, King D, Hitt MM, Gao YN, Wedderburn N, Griffin BE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, Hammersmith
Hospital, London, UK.

The genetic information in a sub-fragment of EBV DNA, designated p31 (containing 
less than a quarter of the viral genome and derived from a recombinant DNA cosmid
library) allows epithelial cells from primary monkey and human kidney cultures to
escape senescence under standard tissue culture conditions. A number of
epithelial cell lines, designated M1/31, 483/31, 199/31 and HK/31, have been
established and characterized following transfection of primary cells with p31
DNA. They share many properties, although morphologically they are not all
identical. The cultures are immortalized but not fully transformed or
tumorigenic. They appear to be phenotypically stable, although DNA hybridization 
studies indicate that genotypic alterations, including amplification, occur
subsequent to transfection with p31 DNA and the establishment of a continuously
proliferating epithelium. All cell lines consistently express high levels of
cytokeratin 18 and varying amounts of cytokeratin 7, demonstrating their
epithelial origin. From a single marmoset kidney (designated 199) a series of
related immortalized cells, with subtle phenotypic differences, have been
generated by p31 or sub-fragments of it. Although hallmarks of a "hit-and-run"
mechanism are apparent in all of our studies, 2 different techniques (in situ
hybridization or selection for cell survival in semi-solid media, followed by
nucleic acid hybridization) show that, in late-passaged cultures, a small
proportion of the cells still contain some viral DNA. The studies focus on
genetic information within the BamHI A and I regions as being relevant to
immortalization. The role of the EBV DNA fragment in the genesis of epithelial
cell lines is considered.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910450432 
PMID: 2157679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4366. Lab Anim. 1990 Apr;24(2):151-5.

A lobster claw abnormality in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Cooper JE(1), Purton P, Poswillo DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Royal College of Surgeons of England, London, UK.

A congenital abnormality of the digits, similar to the 'lobster claw' deformity
of humans, was observed in 8 common marmosets. The condition varied in severity
and in effect on the animals; it appeared to be due to a single autosomal
recessive trait.

DOI: 10.1258/002367790780890095 
PMID: 2366513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

