

4366. Lab Anim. 1990 Apr;24(2):151-5.

A lobster claw abnormality in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Cooper JE(1), Purton P, Poswillo DE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Royal College of Surgeons of England, London, UK.

A congenital abnormality of the digits, similar to the 'lobster claw' deformity
of humans, was observed in 8 common marmosets. The condition varied in severity
and in effect on the animals; it appeared to be due to a single autosomal
recessive trait.

DOI: 10.1258/002367790780890095 
PMID: 2366513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4367. Nihon Jinzo Gakkai Shi. 1990 Apr;32(4):427-33.

[Effect of renin inhibitor (ES-1005) on expression of the kidney renin gene in
sodium-depleted marmosets].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitami Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Ehime University, School of Medicine, 
Japan.

Effect of renin inhibitor ES-1005 or captopril on the renin synthesis by the
kidney was investigated in sodium-depleted marmosets. The level of kidney renin
mRNA was measured after 2-hour (acute study) and one-week (chronic study)
administrations of the two agents. Relative amounts of kidney renin mRNA were
measured by densitometric Northern blot analysis using an alpha-32P-labelled
human renin cDNA fragment as a hybridization probe. In the acute study, treatment
with captopril significantly increased plasma renin activity (PRA) (p less than
0.05), but did not change the level of kidney renin mRNA. In the chronic study,
treatment with captopril markedly increased PRA as well as the level of kidney
renin mRNA (4.7-fold and 6.3-fold increases, respectively). In contrast,
treatment with ES-1005 completely inhibited PRA and significantly suppressed the 
level of kidney renin mRNA in both acute and chronic studies (about one-third of 
the normal control, p less than 0.05). These results suggest that renin inhibitor
ES-1005 not only inhibits plasma renin activity but also suppresses the synthesis
of renin by the kidney.


PMID: 2198366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

