

4367. Nihon Jinzo Gakkai Shi. 1990 Apr;32(4):427-33.

[Effect of renin inhibitor (ES-1005) on expression of the kidney renin gene in
sodium-depleted marmosets].

[Article in Japanese]

Kitami Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Ehime University, School of Medicine, 
Japan.

Effect of renin inhibitor ES-1005 or captopril on the renin synthesis by the
kidney was investigated in sodium-depleted marmosets. The level of kidney renin
mRNA was measured after 2-hour (acute study) and one-week (chronic study)
administrations of the two agents. Relative amounts of kidney renin mRNA were
measured by densitometric Northern blot analysis using an alpha-32P-labelled
human renin cDNA fragment as a hybridization probe. In the acute study, treatment
with captopril significantly increased plasma renin activity (PRA) (p less than
0.05), but did not change the level of kidney renin mRNA. In the chronic study,
treatment with captopril markedly increased PRA as well as the level of kidney
renin mRNA (4.7-fold and 6.3-fold increases, respectively). In contrast,
treatment with ES-1005 completely inhibited PRA and significantly suppressed the 
level of kidney renin mRNA in both acute and chronic studies (about one-third of 
the normal control, p less than 0.05). These results suggest that renin inhibitor
ES-1005 not only inhibits plasma renin activity but also suppresses the synthesis
of renin by the kidney.


PMID: 2198366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4368. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1990 Apr;35(4):955-62.

The effects of ondansetron, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, on cognition in rodents 
and primates.

Barnes JM(1), Costall B, Coughlan J, Domeney AM, Gerrard PA, Kelly ME, Naylor RJ,
Onaivi ES, Tomkins DM, Tyers MB.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, University of Bradford.

The selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, onansetron, has been assessed in three
tests of cognition in the mouse, rat and marmoset. In a habituation test in the
mouse, ondansetron facilitated performance in young adult and aged animals, and
inhibited an impairment in habituation induced by scopolamine, electrolesions or 
ibotenic acid lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Arecoline failed to
improve basal performance in young adult mice but inhibited the impairment caused
by scopolamine and lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. In the T-maze 
reinforced alternation task in rats, ondansetron and arecoline antagonised a
scopolamine-induced impairment. In an object discrimination and reversal learning
task in the marmoset, assessed using a Wisconsin General Test Apparatus,
ondansetron improved performance in a reversal learning task. We conclude that
ondansetron potently improves basal performance in rodent and primate tests of
cognition and inhibits the impairments in performance caused by cholinergic
deficits.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(90)90385-u 
PMID: 2140610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

