

4371. Exp Cell Res. 1990 Mar;187(1):157-61.

Paired arrangement of nonhomologous centromeres during vertebrate spermiogenesis.

Haaf T(1), Grunenberg H, Schmid M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, University of WÃ¼rzburg, Federal Republic of
Germany.

Indirect immunofluorescence staining with human anti-kinetochore antibodies was
used to study the position of centromeres during vertebrate spermiogenesis. Many 
species of Amphibia have a low chromosome number and very large spermatids and
spermatozoa. The number of kinetochore dots correlates exactly with the haploid
chromosome number. This implies that kinetochore duplication occurs in the
interval between meiosis I and meiosis II. The nonhomologous centromeres are
arranged in tandem during the entire course of spermiogenesis and in mature
spermatozoa. A higher order centromere arrangement was found in spermiogenic
cells of Anura and Urodela. In mammals, immunofluorescence analysis is
complicated by the extreme condensation of chromatin during spermiogenesis and
the high chromosome numbers. Nevertheless, centromere-centromere associations
were observed in mammalian round spermatids and sporadically in testicular
spermatozoa. This indicates that pair-wise association of centromeres is a
universal principle of centromere arrangement at the postmeiotic stage.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-4827(90)90130-3 
PMID: 2404775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4372. Am J Physiol. 1990 Mar;258(3 Pt 1):E451-8.

Conversion to renin of exogenously administered recombinant human prorenin in
liver and kidney of monkeys.

Kim S(1), Hosoi M, Ikemoto F, Murakami K, Ishizuka Y, Yamamoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Osaka City University Medical School, Japan.

Highly purified recombinant human prorenin, labeled with 125I (125I-prorenin),
was intravenously given to monkeys to examine the possible in vivo conversion of 
this prorenin to renin. 125I-prorenin and 125I-renin were detected using specific
anti-prorenin prosegment antibody and anti-renin antibody, respectively. The
plasma disappearance of immunoreactive 125I-prorenin in marmosets showed two
exponential components with a half-life of 10.4 +/- 0.2 min for the rapid
component and 165.7 +/- 12.6 min for the slow component. Fifteen minutes after
the injection of 125I-prorenin, 38.7 +/- 2.8 and 3.9 +/- 0.5% of the administered
dose accumulated in the liver and kidney, respectively. Less than 1% of the dose 
injected distributed in the other organs, including the brain, submandibular
gland, lung, heart, aorta, adrenal gland, spleen, uterus, ovary, and testis. Thus
the labeled prorenin was predominantly taken up by the liver and kidney. Analysis
of liver and kidney extracts and plasma, by both gel permeation high-performance 
liquid chromatography and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel
electrophoresis, demonstrated that 125I-prorenin (Mr = 46,000) taken up by the
liver and kidney was significantly converted to 125I-renin (Mr = 42,000), whereas
only a negligible amount of 125I-renin (Mr = 42,000) was present in the plasma.
Although there seems to be no activation of prorenin in the blood circulation,
prorenin does seem to be activated by the liver and kidney.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.1990.258.3.E451 
PMID: 2180314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

