

4378. Arch Androl. 1990;24(2):167-75.

Ultrastructure of paracriny/steroidogenesis in principal cells of the marmoset
epididymis.

Humar RA(1), Ojha PP, Kumar TC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction, Parel, Bombay, India.

The ultrastructural features of the principal cell in the epididymal epithelium
of the marmosets are distinguished by an intercellular exchange of substances
contained within cytoplasmic vesicles and the presence of paracrystalline bodies.
The possibility of the exchange of substances constituting paracriny and the
paracrystalline inclusion having a role in steroidogenic activity is discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/01485019008986876 
PMID: 2327826  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4379. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1990;181(1):59-66.

An ultrastructural study of early chorionic villus formation in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Smith CA(1), Moore HD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Zoological Society of London, 
Regent's Park, UK.

The ultrastructural morphology of developing chorionic villi in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) placenta was studied in pregnant monkeys at known
time intervals after ovulation. In samples obtained at 45 days after ovulation
the mesoderm, which consists of primitive foetal blood vessels, is seen to extend
down into cytotrophoblast columns. Syncytiotrophoblast completely surrounds
maternal blood vessels and both basal laminae and endothelial cells of maternal
origin show signs of disorganisation and degradation. Syncytiotrophoblast is
first observed to breach the maternal circulation in samples collected from
animals at 60 days after ovulation; this results in discrete haemochorial villi
randomly distributed throughout the placental bed. Samples obtained at 80 days
after ovulation and term placental samples (145 days after ovulation) exhibit
tertiary haemochorial villi throughout the placenta, similar to those seen
randomly distributed at 60 days after ovulation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00189728 
PMID: 2305971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

