

4381. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1990;87(1):105-9.

[Quantitative autoradiography with (125I)cyanopindolol of ocular tissues].

[Article in German]

Kahle G(1), Kaulen P, Wollensak J.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, Standort Charlottenburg, Berlin.

In the present study beta-adrenergic receptors were identified and localized by
autoradiographic methods using [125I]cyanopindolol in human eyes, as well as in
the eyes of marmosets and albino rabbits. Quantification revealed that the
highest binding-site densities are in the ciliary body and the corneal epithelium
and endothelium. Moreover, the iris and conjunctiva showed significant amounts of
specific [125I]cyanopindolol binding. In pigmented human and marmoset eyes,
binding to the ciliary epithelium and iris was not inhibited by 10 microM
propranolol, thus representing nonspecific binding sites. In nonpigmented rabbit 
eyes, binding to all parts of the eye was reduced to the level of background by
10 microM propranolol and 100 nM ICI 118-551, which is a highly selective beta
2-adrenergic ligand. Being selective for serotonin1B receptors, 100 nM ICI 89-406
which blocks more than 95% of the beta 1-adrenergic receptors, and RU 24,969 have
no effect on [125I]cyanopindolol binding, which suggests that there is binding to
beta 2-adrenergic receptors. The anatomical location and quantification of beta
2-receptors in the mammalian eye may contribute to better understanding of beta
2-adrenoceptor function and the action of beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents in
glaucoma therapy.


PMID: 2157652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4382. Arch Toxicol. 1990;64(8):601-15.

Transfer of various polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs
and PCDFs) via placenta and through milk in a marmoset monkey.

Hagenmaier H(1), Wiesmüller T, Golor G, Krowke R, Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie, Universität Tübingen.

Erratum in
    Arch Toxicol 1991;65(3):262.

A defined mixture of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs
and PCDFs) was subcutaneously administered to a pregnant marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) 11 weeks prior to delivery. Transfer of PCDDs and PCDFs via 
placenta and mother's milk was investigated by measurement of concentrations in a
newborn 1 day after birth and in an infant of the same litter after a lactation
period of 33 days. Furthermore, comparative measurements were performed in
different tissues of the mother at the end of the lactation period, and in
addition, in two groups of four adult monkeys each 1 and 6 weeks after treatment.
Deposition of the PCDDs and PCDFs into fetal liver was very low for most of the
2,3,7,8-substituted congeners. Highest deposition was observed for 2,3,7,8-T4CDD 
and 1,2,3,7,8-P5CDD. For all other compounds concentrations in the hepatic tissue
of newborn shortly after birth were lower than one tenth of corresponding
concentrations in adults. Especially for PCDFs, prenatal deposition in fetal
liver was extremely low. Fetal liver is apparently largely unable to accumulate
PCDDs/PCDFs. In contrast to liver, concentrations of 2,3,7,8-substituted
PCDDs/PCDFs in adipose tissue of the newborn were at least one third of the
levels in adults. However, concentrations of OCDD and OCDF were about three times
higher in the newborn than in adult adipose tissue. Transfer of some of the
2,3,7,8-substituted PCDDs and PCDFs to the offspring via mother's milk was
considerable, leading to hepatic concentrations in the suckled infant at the end 
of the 33-day nursing period well above corresponding concentrations in the dam. 
When hepatic concentrations in the infant and dam were compared 2- to 4-fold
higher concentrations were found in the infant's liver for 2,3,7,8-T4CDD/F and
for 1,2,3,7,8-P5CDD. In the case of the 2,3,7,8-substituted H6CDDs, P5CDFs, and
most of the H6CDFs, hepatic concentrations in the infant and dam were in the same
range at the end of the suckling period. In contrast to this, less than one tenth
the concentration of OCDD was found in the infant's liver when compared with
adult liver. A corresponding phenomenon was observed for PCDFs. At the maximum
absorption, 1 week after injection, for almost all 2,3,7,8-substituted congeners 
highest concentrations were measured in hepatic tissue of adult monkeys. This is 
especially true for those substances with six and more chlorine atoms. Besides
adipose tissue, comparatively high levels were found in thymus and also in lung
tissue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01974688 
PMID: 2128593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

