

4382. Arch Toxicol. 1990;64(8):601-15.

Transfer of various polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs
and PCDFs) via placenta and through milk in a marmoset monkey.

Hagenmaier H(1), Wiesmüller T, Golor G, Krowke R, Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Organische Chemie, Universität Tübingen.

Erratum in
    Arch Toxicol 1991;65(3):262.

A defined mixture of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs
and PCDFs) was subcutaneously administered to a pregnant marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) 11 weeks prior to delivery. Transfer of PCDDs and PCDFs via 
placenta and mother's milk was investigated by measurement of concentrations in a
newborn 1 day after birth and in an infant of the same litter after a lactation
period of 33 days. Furthermore, comparative measurements were performed in
different tissues of the mother at the end of the lactation period, and in
addition, in two groups of four adult monkeys each 1 and 6 weeks after treatment.
Deposition of the PCDDs and PCDFs into fetal liver was very low for most of the
2,3,7,8-substituted congeners. Highest deposition was observed for 2,3,7,8-T4CDD 
and 1,2,3,7,8-P5CDD. For all other compounds concentrations in the hepatic tissue
of newborn shortly after birth were lower than one tenth of corresponding
concentrations in adults. Especially for PCDFs, prenatal deposition in fetal
liver was extremely low. Fetal liver is apparently largely unable to accumulate
PCDDs/PCDFs. In contrast to liver, concentrations of 2,3,7,8-substituted
PCDDs/PCDFs in adipose tissue of the newborn were at least one third of the
levels in adults. However, concentrations of OCDD and OCDF were about three times
higher in the newborn than in adult adipose tissue. Transfer of some of the
2,3,7,8-substituted PCDDs and PCDFs to the offspring via mother's milk was
considerable, leading to hepatic concentrations in the suckled infant at the end 
of the 33-day nursing period well above corresponding concentrations in the dam. 
When hepatic concentrations in the infant and dam were compared 2- to 4-fold
higher concentrations were found in the infant's liver for 2,3,7,8-T4CDD/F and
for 1,2,3,7,8-P5CDD. In the case of the 2,3,7,8-substituted H6CDDs, P5CDFs, and
most of the H6CDFs, hepatic concentrations in the infant and dam were in the same
range at the end of the suckling period. In contrast to this, less than one tenth
the concentration of OCDD was found in the infant's liver when compared with
adult liver. A corresponding phenomenon was observed for PCDFs. At the maximum
absorption, 1 week after injection, for almost all 2,3,7,8-substituted congeners 
highest concentrations were measured in hepatic tissue of adult monkeys. This is 
especially true for those substances with six and more chlorine atoms. Besides
adipose tissue, comparatively high levels were found in thymus and also in lung
tissue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01974688 
PMID: 2128593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4383. Arch Toxicol. 1990;64(6):431-42.

Persistence of various polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs
and PCDFs) in hepatic and adipose tissue of marmoset monkeys.

Neubert D(1), Wiesmüller T, Abraham K, Krowke R, Hagenmaier H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie and Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Federal Republic of Germany.

A defined mixture of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs
and PCDFs) was subcutaneously administered to marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). Tissue concentrations in hepatic and adipose tissue were measured at
different times after treatment (1-28 weeks). One week after application high
concentrations could be detected for the 2,3,7,8-substituted congeners only. The 
percent of the administered dose in whole liver differed for the various
2,3,7,8-substituted congeners, ranging from 24.5 +/- 4.5% for 2,3,7,8-TCDD to
74.1 +/- 4.9% for 2,3,4,6,7,8-H6CDF. Therefore, the concentration ratio
(liver/adipose tissue) was also very different, ranging from about 1
(2,3,7,8-T4CDD or 2,3,7,8-T4CDF) to greater than 10 in the case of some higher
chlorinated PCDDs and PCDFs. Half-lives of PCDDs and PCDFs were very different
for the various 2,3,7,8-substituted congeners. For the most toxic compound
(2,3,7,8-T4CDD) a t/2 of about 8 weeks in hepatic tissue and about 11 weeks in
adipose tissue was found when calculated from data obtained later than 6 weeks
after injection. For 2,3,7,8-T4CDD and 1,2,3,7,8-P5CDD the decreases in hepatic
concentrations were much faster during the first 6 weeks after administration
(t/2 of 4 weeks). This was apparently due to redistribution phenomena. Half-life 
increased with increasing degrees of chlorination. In some cases (e.g. OCDD,
OCDF) no significant decrease in tissue concentrations could be observed after 28
weeks. The shortest t/2 was determined for 2,3,7,8-T4CDF: shorter than 6 days in 
hepatic tissue and about 10 days in adipose tissue. Calculation of the body
burden of the non-2,3,7,8-substituted PCDDs/PCDFs 1 week after injection revealed
that all groups of isomers were present at less than 5%. Consequences of these
findings for the use of TCDD-toxic-equivalency factors are discussed and a change
in strategy is suggested.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01977624 
PMID: 2125825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

