

4383. Arch Toxicol. 1990;64(6):431-42.

Persistence of various polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs
and PCDFs) in hepatic and adipose tissue of marmoset monkeys.

Neubert D(1), Wiesmüller T, Abraham K, Krowke R, Hagenmaier H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie and Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Federal Republic of Germany.

A defined mixture of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDDs
and PCDFs) was subcutaneously administered to marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). Tissue concentrations in hepatic and adipose tissue were measured at
different times after treatment (1-28 weeks). One week after application high
concentrations could be detected for the 2,3,7,8-substituted congeners only. The 
percent of the administered dose in whole liver differed for the various
2,3,7,8-substituted congeners, ranging from 24.5 +/- 4.5% for 2,3,7,8-TCDD to
74.1 +/- 4.9% for 2,3,4,6,7,8-H6CDF. Therefore, the concentration ratio
(liver/adipose tissue) was also very different, ranging from about 1
(2,3,7,8-T4CDD or 2,3,7,8-T4CDF) to greater than 10 in the case of some higher
chlorinated PCDDs and PCDFs. Half-lives of PCDDs and PCDFs were very different
for the various 2,3,7,8-substituted congeners. For the most toxic compound
(2,3,7,8-T4CDD) a t/2 of about 8 weeks in hepatic tissue and about 11 weeks in
adipose tissue was found when calculated from data obtained later than 6 weeks
after injection. For 2,3,7,8-T4CDD and 1,2,3,7,8-P5CDD the decreases in hepatic
concentrations were much faster during the first 6 weeks after administration
(t/2 of 4 weeks). This was apparently due to redistribution phenomena. Half-life 
increased with increasing degrees of chlorination. In some cases (e.g. OCDD,
OCDF) no significant decrease in tissue concentrations could be observed after 28
weeks. The shortest t/2 was determined for 2,3,7,8-T4CDF: shorter than 6 days in 
hepatic tissue and about 10 days in adipose tissue. Calculation of the body
burden of the non-2,3,7,8-substituted PCDDs/PCDFs 1 week after injection revealed
that all groups of isomers were present at less than 5%. Consequences of these
findings for the use of TCDD-toxic-equivalency factors are discussed and a change
in strategy is suggested.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01977624 
PMID: 2125825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4384. Comp Biochem Physiol B. 1990;97(1):167-70.

N-3 and N-6 phosphoglyceride fatty acids in relation to in vitro erythrocyte
haemolysis induced by hydrogen peroxide in captive common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Harbige LS(1), Ghebremeskel K, Williams G, Summers P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Biochemistry, Zoological Society of London, Regent's
Park, UK.
