

4387. Arch Toxicol. 1990;64(3):193-204.

Ofloxacin in juvenile non-human primates and rats. Arthropathia and drug plasma
concentrations.

Stahlmann R(1), Merker HJ, Hinz N, Chahoud I, Webb J, Heger W, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freien Universität Berlin.

Arthropathia in juvenile animals is the most important toxic effect induced by
quinolones. We conducted pharmacokinetic and morphological studies with ofloxacin
on non-human primates (Callithrix jacchus, Marmosets) and rats. In the marmoset, 
electron microscopy and the application of immuno-morphological methods proved to
be suitable for the detection of specific alterations in cartilage (e.g. loss of 
proteoglycans and altered chondrocytes). Subsequently performed electron
microscopic examinations in rats showed similar specific alterations of the femur
cartilage surface after multiple oral applications of 600 mg ofloxacin/kg body
wt. These results were correlated with pharmacokinetic data obtained for the same
species. After single oral application of 100, 300 or 600 mg ofloxacin/kg body wt
to 5 week-old rats peak plasma levels were achieved 15-45 min after
administration indicating a rapid absorption of the drug. The following peak
concentrations were measured for the three doses applied (mean +/- SD): 8.9 +/-
2.1, 22.6 +/- 7.5 mg/l and 33.5 +/- 9.8 mg/l, respectively. After 360 min the
concentrations were 1.1 +/- 0.4, 5.9 +/- 2.5 and 15.9 +/- 5.1 mg/l, respectively.
After subcutaneous injection of 100 mg ofloxacin/kg body wt the mean peak
concentration was 27.7 +/- 2.6 mg/l after 45 min (0.5 +/- 0.2 mg/l after 360
min). In the marmoset higher plasma concentrations were measured with comparable 
doses. One, 3, and 6 h after the last of nine administrations of 200 mg
ofloxacin/kg body wt, the mean (+/- SD) plasma concentrations were: 42.7 +/-
16.7, 40.6 +/- 9.5, and 26.5 +/- 3.6 mg ofloxacin/l plasma. Typical alterations
of the joint cartilage of juvenile rats (e.g. opened chondrocyte cavities,
swelling of rough endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial swelling in the
chondrocytes) were induced by oral administration of ofloxacin at doses that were
approximately 100 times higher than therapeutic ones, but led to peak plasma
concentrations which were only approximately 10 times above the therapeutic
level.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02010725 
PMID: 2115323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4388. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1990;54(1-2):46-56.

Medial hypothalamic lesions and sexual receptivity in the female common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Medial hypothalamic lesions cause major deficits in sexual receptivity in a
variety of mammalian species. Effects of such lesions upon sexual receptivity in 
female primates have not been investigated. Two experiments are described in
which thermal lesions were made in the hypothalamus in 11 ovariectomized or
ovariectomized/adrenalectomized, oestradiol-treated common marmosets.
Proceptivity (sexual initiating behaviour) was reduced or abolished by lesions in
the dorsomedial or ventromedial hypothalamus. Sexual receptivity was unaffected
except in 3 females in which damage to the ventromedial area was associated with 
a 25-42% increase in terminations of males' mounts. However, this effect was
reversed by treating females with oestradiol. Therefore, medial hypothalamic
lesions have pronounced effects upon proceptivity in the marmoset, whereas
effects upon receptivity are much less pronounced or absent. These results are
discussed in relation to the evolution of the hormonal control of receptivity in 
anthropoid primates as compared to other mammals.

DOI: 10.1159/000156425 
PMID: 2108915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

