

4388. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1990;54(1-2):46-56.

Medial hypothalamic lesions and sexual receptivity in the female common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Medial hypothalamic lesions cause major deficits in sexual receptivity in a
variety of mammalian species. Effects of such lesions upon sexual receptivity in 
female primates have not been investigated. Two experiments are described in
which thermal lesions were made in the hypothalamus in 11 ovariectomized or
ovariectomized/adrenalectomized, oestradiol-treated common marmosets.
Proceptivity (sexual initiating behaviour) was reduced or abolished by lesions in
the dorsomedial or ventromedial hypothalamus. Sexual receptivity was unaffected
except in 3 females in which damage to the ventromedial area was associated with 
a 25-42% increase in terminations of males' mounts. However, this effect was
reversed by treating females with oestradiol. Therefore, medial hypothalamic
lesions have pronounced effects upon proceptivity in the marmoset, whereas
effects upon receptivity are much less pronounced or absent. These results are
discussed in relation to the evolution of the hormonal control of receptivity in 
anthropoid primates as compared to other mammals.

DOI: 10.1159/000156425 
PMID: 2108915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4389. Lab Anim. 1990 Jan;24(1):68-70.

Isolation and identification of strains of Bacteroides fragilis group from the
digestive tract of Callithrix penicillata marmosets.

Avila-Campos MJ(1), Raymundo NL, Farias LM, Silva SL, Carvalho MA, Damasceno CA, 
Pereira LH, Cisalpino EO.

Author information: 
(1)Departmento de Microbiologia, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil.

Thirty-five strains of the Bacteroides fragilis group were isolated from oral and
intestinal samples from 5 wild caught, captive Callithrix penicillata. Nine oral 
strains of Bacteroides fragilis (7) and Bacteroides distasonis (2), and 26
intestinal strains of Bacteroides fragilis (14) and Bacteroides distasonis (12)
were identified.

DOI: 10.1258/002367790780890310 
PMID: 2106054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

