

4389. Lab Anim. 1990 Jan;24(1):68-70.

Isolation and identification of strains of Bacteroides fragilis group from the
digestive tract of Callithrix penicillata marmosets.

Avila-Campos MJ(1), Raymundo NL, Farias LM, Silva SL, Carvalho MA, Damasceno CA, 
Pereira LH, Cisalpino EO.

Author information: 
(1)Departmento de Microbiologia, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brazil.

Thirty-five strains of the Bacteroides fragilis group were isolated from oral and
intestinal samples from 5 wild caught, captive Callithrix penicillata. Nine oral 
strains of Bacteroides fragilis (7) and Bacteroides distasonis (2), and 26
intestinal strains of Bacteroides fragilis (14) and Bacteroides distasonis (12)
were identified.

DOI: 10.1258/002367790780890310 
PMID: 2106054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4390. Fortschr Ophthalmol. 1990;87(6):630-7.

[Quantitative autoradiography of the glucose transport protein with
(3H)cytochalasin-B in the mammalian eye].

[Article in German]

Kaulen P(1), Kahle G, Keller K, Wollensak J.

Author information: 
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik, Universitätsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, Freien
Universität, Berlin, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

In vitro autoradiography with [3H]cytochalasin for the anatomic localization of
the glucose transport protein in eyes of rats, rabbits, baboons, marmosets and
humans reveals high glucose carrier densities in the ciliary body, especially
ciliary processes, iris, retina and, in some species, in the trabecular meshwork 
and lens. In the lens, specific [3H]cytochalasin B binding sites are mainly
concentrated in the lens nucleus. Lower concentrations are found in the cortex.
During again, the glucose transporter concentration increases up to the age of 8 
years in the marmoset lens nucleus, but decreases in the cortex and retina.
Moderate amounts of carrier are located in the corneal endo- and epithelium.
These findings suggest a possible involvement of glucose transporter-related
mechanisms in cataractogenesis, e.g. in that resulting from glycosylation of lens
proteins. The enrichment of glucose carrier protein in the trabecular meshwork
suggests a high metabolic activity and a possible involvement in the regulation
of intraocular pressure. The relationship between glucose transport and
utilization is also briefly discussed.


PMID: 2086408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

