

4393. Experientia. 1989 Dec 1;45(11-12):1112-5.

Splitting of the circadian activity rhythm in common marmosets (Callithrix j.
jacchus; primates).

Schardt U(1), Wilhelm I, Erkert HG.

Author information: 
(1)Universität Tübingen, Zoologisches Institut/Tierphysiologie, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

Long-term recordings of the free-running circadian activity rhythm in common
marmosets, Callithrix j. jacchus, living under constant environmental conditions 
(LL 200-470 lx) provided evidence of rhythm splitting in nonhuman primates. In
two out of ten test animals two different types of splitting occurred;
spontaneous persistent splitting and temporary splitting. Neither a reduction of 
the illumination intensity nor the application of dark pulses had any effect on
the two activity components of the persistently split rhythm.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01950173 
PMID: 2513221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4394. Biochem Pharmacol. 1989 Nov 1;38(21):3677-81.

Transient depletion of nucleus accumbens dopamine content may contribute to
initial akinesia induced by MPTP in common marmosets.

Rose S(1), Nomoto M, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Movement Disorders Research Group, University Department of Neurology,
London, U.K.

Acute treatment of common marmosets with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) caused an initial profound
akinesia and other motor deficits. However, over the following months akinesia
gradually disappeared although the animals remained clumsy and poorly
coordinated. At 10 days following MPTP treatment there was a profound decrease in
the dopamine, HVA and DOPAC content of the caudate nucleus, putamen and nucleus
accumbens. By 3-4 months following MPTP treatment the animals had largely
recovered from their akinesia, but the caudate nucleus and putamen dopamine, HVA 
and DOPAC content remained low. In contrast, the dopamine content of the nucleus 
accumbens had returned towards normal and the metabolite levels were higher than 
at 10 days. No overall alterations in 5HT or 5HIAA levels were observed at either
time point. The transient and reversible nature of dopamine loss in the nucleus
accumbens may contribute to the initial profound akinesia exhibited by common
marmosets treated with MPTP. The restoration of dopamine levels in the nucleus
accumbens may be partially responsible for the subsequent recovery of motor
function that occurs in MPTP-treated marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(89)90572-8 
PMID: 2597167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

