

4396. Rinsho Ketsueki. 1989 Oct;30(10):1732-7.

[Mother to child transmission of human T cell leukemia virus type-1].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikeda S, Kinoshita K, Amagasaki T, Momita S, Soda H, Ito M, Kanda T, Tachibana K,
Doi H, Tsuji Y, et al.

Infection of HTLV-1 during childhood may be the most probable cause of
leukemogenesis of ATL. The possibility of mother to child transmission of HTLV-1 
was studied. Our epidemiological investigation disclosed that almost all mothers 
of HTLV-1 carrier children were positive for anti-HTLV-1 antibody and children
born from carrier mothers showed statistically higher positive rate for
anti-HTLV-1 antibody than control groups. A large number of HTLV-1 positive
lymphocytes were detected in the milk from carrier mother, but not in the cord
blood from newborn babies delivered from carrier mothers. We inoculated the fresh
milk collected from carrier mothers into the oral cavity of a common marmoset to 
prove the oral infection. The marmoset was found to be seroconverted and viral
antigen expression was detected in short term cultures of its peripheral T
lymphocytes. These results suggest that we can prevent the transmission of HTLV-1
by prohibiting the breast-fed [corrected] by carrier mother. We have so far
followed up 55 children born from carrier mothers but fed with compound milk
only. None of the children in this group became a carrier of HTLV-1, whereas
breast-fed group was found to have higher incidence of sero-positivity for
HTLV-1. Therefore the trial prevention of HTLV-1 transmission is now undertaken
in Nagasaki district.


PMID: 2512396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4397. Lab Anim. 1989 Oct;23(4):353-6.

Systems for collection of urine in the captive common marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus.

Lunn SF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Two systems are described for the collection of 24 h urine samples from the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using 84 adult animals, 1210 24-h samples
were collected. Mean urinary excretion was 14.4 +/- 7.5 ml/24 h (n = 1210, mean
+/- SD). No differences were observed between sexes (for 52 females, 24 h volume 
= 15.1 +/- 8.0 ml; for 32 males, 24 h volume = 12.5 +/- 6.0 ml). No significant
differences were observed between pregnant and non-pregnant females with respect 
to 24 h urine volume, and bilateral gonadectomy did not influence subsequent
urinary excretion in either sex. For 161 pairs of observations, the intake of
drinking water (11.7 +/- 10.2 ml/24 h) and the volume of urine excreted (12.6 +/-
7.1 ml/24 h) showed a positive correlation (r = 0.406 d.f. 159, P less than
0.001: y = 0.558x + 4.247).

DOI: 10.1258/002367789780745935 
PMID: 2509801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

