

4397. Lab Anim. 1989 Oct;23(4):353-6.

Systems for collection of urine in the captive common marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus.

Lunn SF(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Two systems are described for the collection of 24 h urine samples from the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using 84 adult animals, 1210 24-h samples
were collected. Mean urinary excretion was 14.4 +/- 7.5 ml/24 h (n = 1210, mean
+/- SD). No differences were observed between sexes (for 52 females, 24 h volume 
= 15.1 +/- 8.0 ml; for 32 males, 24 h volume = 12.5 +/- 6.0 ml). No significant
differences were observed between pregnant and non-pregnant females with respect 
to 24 h urine volume, and bilateral gonadectomy did not influence subsequent
urinary excretion in either sex. For 161 pairs of observations, the intake of
drinking water (11.7 +/- 10.2 ml/24 h) and the volume of urine excreted (12.6 +/-
7.1 ml/24 h) showed a positive correlation (r = 0.406 d.f. 159, P less than
0.001: y = 0.558x + 4.247).

DOI: 10.1258/002367789780745935 
PMID: 2509801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4398. J Endocrinol. 1989 Oct;123(1):65-73.

Control of inhibin production by primate granulosa cells.

Hillier SG(1), Wickings EJ, Saunders PT, Dixson AF, Shimasaki S, Swanston IA,
Reichert LE Jr, McNeilly AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh Centre for
Reproductive Biology.

In-vitro data from experiments on rats implicate granulosa cells as primary sites
of hormone-dependent ovarian inhibin biosynthesis, but no equivalent data exist
for primates. We have used the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to
investigate inhibin biosynthesis in primate granulosa cells in vitro and to
determine its relationship to preovulatory follicular development. To relate the 
production of immunoactive inhibin to follicular maturity, we studied primary
granulosa cell cultures from follicles at progressive stages of preovulatory
development. Granulosa cells from 'large' (greater than or equal to 2.0 mm
diameter) follicles expressed high rates of inhibin production and
steroidogenesis (progesterone), and were positively regulated by human (h)LH in
vitro. Less mature granulosa cells from 'medium' (1.1-1.9 mm) and 'small' (less
than or equal to 1.0 mm) follicles expressed proportionately lower rates of
inhibin production and steroidogenesis, but each parameter was stimulated in a
dose- and time-dependent manner by hFSH in vitro. The stimulatory action of hFSH 
on immunoreactive inhibin was augmented by the presence of testosterone or
oestradiol; testosterone (but not oestradiol) also augmented the steroidogenic
response to hFSH. Marmoset luteal tissue also produced inhibin in vitro and
expressed an approximately 1.5 kb inhibin alpha-subunit mRNA, confirming the
corpus luteum as a source of ovarian inhibin in primates. These results provide
direct experimental evidence that primate granulosa cells produce inhibin. They
suggest that production of inhibin by immature granulosa cells is initially
induced by FSH and subject to modulation by follicular steroids.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1230065 
PMID: 2509620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

