

4398. J Endocrinol. 1989 Oct;123(1):65-73.

Control of inhibin production by primate granulosa cells.

Hillier SG(1), Wickings EJ, Saunders PT, Dixson AF, Shimasaki S, Swanston IA,
Reichert LE Jr, McNeilly AS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh Centre for
Reproductive Biology.

In-vitro data from experiments on rats implicate granulosa cells as primary sites
of hormone-dependent ovarian inhibin biosynthesis, but no equivalent data exist
for primates. We have used the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to
investigate inhibin biosynthesis in primate granulosa cells in vitro and to
determine its relationship to preovulatory follicular development. To relate the 
production of immunoactive inhibin to follicular maturity, we studied primary
granulosa cell cultures from follicles at progressive stages of preovulatory
development. Granulosa cells from 'large' (greater than or equal to 2.0 mm
diameter) follicles expressed high rates of inhibin production and
steroidogenesis (progesterone), and were positively regulated by human (h)LH in
vitro. Less mature granulosa cells from 'medium' (1.1-1.9 mm) and 'small' (less
than or equal to 1.0 mm) follicles expressed proportionately lower rates of
inhibin production and steroidogenesis, but each parameter was stimulated in a
dose- and time-dependent manner by hFSH in vitro. The stimulatory action of hFSH 
on immunoreactive inhibin was augmented by the presence of testosterone or
oestradiol; testosterone (but not oestradiol) also augmented the steroidogenic
response to hFSH. Marmoset luteal tissue also produced inhibin in vitro and
expressed an approximately 1.5 kb inhibin alpha-subunit mRNA, confirming the
corpus luteum as a source of ovarian inhibin in primates. These results provide
direct experimental evidence that primate granulosa cells produce inhibin. They
suggest that production of inhibin by immature granulosa cells is initially
induced by FSH and subject to modulation by follicular steroids.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1230065 
PMID: 2509620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4399. Histol Histopathol. 1989 Oct;4(4):479-92.

Connective tissue of the livers of newborn and adult marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Xu D(1), Schröter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryonal-Pharmakologie, Freie Universität
Berlin, FRG.

Immunofluorescence microscopic and electron microscopic investigations revealed
components of the matrix and of the basal lamina (collagen type I, III, IV and V,
BL-heparan sulfate and fibronectin) in the sinus wall (Disse's space) of the
livers of newborn and adult marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Collagen type I was
missing in both the two age groups. Small amounts of laminin were present in the 
livers of newborn and absent in those of adult animals, whereas collagen type III
occurred in the form of delicate fibres. Light microscopic inspection showed a
continuous distribution of all other components in the sinus wall. The amount of 
collagen type III and V increased depending on the age. Electron microscopic
investigations revealed single or bundled fibrils (20-30 nm) and filaments (10-12
nm). After addition of tannic acid, plaques of a fine-filamentous network and
incorporated granules were observed. After addition of resting Ruthenium Red,
electron-dense granules (20-60 nm) were irregularly distributed in the
structureless space, resting on collagenous fibrils and cell membranes. The
fibrils were allocated to collagen type III, the filaments to collagen type V.
The plaques were supposed to contain heparan sulfate, collagen type IV and
fibronectin. The absence of a Lamina densa of the basal lamina was attributed to 
the absence of laminin which probably plays an important role in the formation of
this layer. Differences in the distribution pattern of the matrix components and 
thus a functional mosaic of the permeability of Disse's space were assumed. The
complete absence of collagen type I and laminin in the lobules makes the adult
marmoset liver especially suited for studies on the importance of this collagen
type under pathological conditions, since both components are expressed in this
way.


PMID: 2485198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

