

4400. J Reprod Fertil. 1989 Sep;87(1):301-10.

Changing responsiveness of luteal cells of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) to luteotrophic and luteolytic agents during normal and conception
cycles.

Webley GE(1), Richardson MC, Summers PM, Given A, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, London, UK.

Dispersed marmoset luteal cells were incubated for 2 h and progesterone
production measured after exposure to hCG, cloprostenol, dibutyryl cAMP, PGF-2
alpha, PGF-2, adrenaline or melatonin. The cells were studied on Days 6, 14 and
20 after ovulation in conception and non-conception cycles. Luteal cells from Day
14 non-pregnant marmosets were compared with human luteal cells taken in the
mid-luteal phase. All the treatments stimulated progesterone production including
cloprostenol, which is luteolytic when administered to the marmoset in vivo, but 
the degree of response varied with the stage of the cycle or pregnancy and
between marmoset and human luteal cells. In the marmoset, overall analysis of the
effect of the treatments showed that, on Day 6 after ovulation, there was no
significant effect of any of the treatments in cells from pregnant or
non-pregnant animals. In contrast, luteal cells from non-pregnant animals on Day 
14 showed a significant response to the treatments (F (8,41) = 2.79, P less than 
0.0145) whereas cells from pregnant Day-14 animals were responsive; in cells from
pregnant animals, the control production of progesterone was high and already
equivalent to the levels stimulated by the treatments. By Day 20, cells from
pregnant animals produced lower control concentrations of progesterone than did
those on Day 14 and there was a significant overall effect of the treatments (F
(8,33) = 3.78, P less than 0.003). These results show that the marmoset CL gains 
responsiveness to treatment between Days 6 and 14 after ovulation in the
non-pregnant cycle. In pregnancy, on Day 14, 2 days after attachment of the
embryo, the high control concentrations of progesterone and absence of response
to treatment suggest that an embryo message may have affected the CL, providing
an endogenous stimulus.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0870301 
PMID: 2560061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4401. Exp Lung Res. 1989 Sep;15(5):739-53.

Bronchoalveolar lavage desmosine in bleomycin-induced lung injury in marmosets
and patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome.

Idell S(1), Thrall RS, Maunder R, Martin TR, McLarty J, Scott M, Starcher BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Center, Tyler 75710

Measurement of urinary desmosine in experimental models of emphysema has been
used to demonstrate elastin catabolism. In order to evaluate the hypothesis that 
accelerated elastin degradation also occurs in association with acute lung injury
characterized by fibrotic repair, we prepared acid hydrolysates of lung lavage
(LL) and used a radioimmunoassay for desmosine to measure concentrations of this 
elastic-specific cross-link in LL. Lavage desmosine (pmol/100 microliter LL) was 
measured following bleomycin-induced lung injury in marmosets and was shown to be
elevated at 1 week (median 6.0, range 5.1-7.8), 2 weeks (8.4, 6.2-8.7), and 4
weeks (7.6, 4.8-7.8) compared to control levels (1.8, 1.4-3.7). Elevations of
lavage desmosine after bleomycin were temporarily associated with remodeling of
the lung as indicated by increased total lung collagen, reduced diffusing
capacity and lung compliance, and histologic evidence of pulmonary fibrosis.
Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) desmosine was measured in patients with the Adult
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) and compared with patients at risk, patients
with other interstitial lung diseases, and normal healthy controls. BAL desmosine
(pmol/100 microliters) was not significantly different in patients with ARDS
(3.2, 2.1-3.0), patients at risk for ARDS (2.8, 2.5-4.4), and those with
interstitial lung disease (3.0, 1.7-5.3) compared to normal controls (2.9,
1.9-4.7). There were poor correlations of BAL desmosine with physiologic indices 
of severity of disease in patients with ARDS and those at risk. Accelerated
elastolysis occurred in the lower respiratory tract during the evaluation of
bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in marmosets but was undetectable in BAL of 
patients studied within the first 3 days of ARDS.

DOI: 10.3109/01902148909062858 
PMID: 2478359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

