

4401. Exp Lung Res. 1989 Sep;15(5):739-53.

Bronchoalveolar lavage desmosine in bleomycin-induced lung injury in marmosets
and patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome.

Idell S(1), Thrall RS, Maunder R, Martin TR, McLarty J, Scott M, Starcher BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Center, Tyler 75710

Measurement of urinary desmosine in experimental models of emphysema has been
used to demonstrate elastin catabolism. In order to evaluate the hypothesis that 
accelerated elastin degradation also occurs in association with acute lung injury
characterized by fibrotic repair, we prepared acid hydrolysates of lung lavage
(LL) and used a radioimmunoassay for desmosine to measure concentrations of this 
elastic-specific cross-link in LL. Lavage desmosine (pmol/100 microliter LL) was 
measured following bleomycin-induced lung injury in marmosets and was shown to be
elevated at 1 week (median 6.0, range 5.1-7.8), 2 weeks (8.4, 6.2-8.7), and 4
weeks (7.6, 4.8-7.8) compared to control levels (1.8, 1.4-3.7). Elevations of
lavage desmosine after bleomycin were temporarily associated with remodeling of
the lung as indicated by increased total lung collagen, reduced diffusing
capacity and lung compliance, and histologic evidence of pulmonary fibrosis.
Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) desmosine was measured in patients with the Adult
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) and compared with patients at risk, patients
with other interstitial lung diseases, and normal healthy controls. BAL desmosine
(pmol/100 microliters) was not significantly different in patients with ARDS
(3.2, 2.1-3.0), patients at risk for ARDS (2.8, 2.5-4.4), and those with
interstitial lung disease (3.0, 1.7-5.3) compared to normal controls (2.9,
1.9-4.7). There were poor correlations of BAL desmosine with physiologic indices 
of severity of disease in patients with ARDS and those at risk. Accelerated
elastolysis occurred in the lower respiratory tract during the evaluation of
bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in marmosets but was undetectable in BAL of 
patients studied within the first 3 days of ARDS.

DOI: 10.3109/01902148909062858 
PMID: 2478359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4402. Eur J Pharmacol. 1989 Aug 3;166(3):373-80.

Stereoselective reversal of MPTP-induced parkinsonism in the marmoset after
dermal application of N-0437.

LÃ¶schmann PA(1), Chong PN, Nomoto M, Tepper PG, Horn AS, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Research Laboratories of Schering AG, Berlin, F.R.G.

The selective dopamine D-2 receptor agonist N-0437 produced a rapid and
dose-dependent reversal of motor deficits lasting 90-120 min following i.p. or
oral administration of the racemate to MPTP-treated common marmosets. In
contrast, topical application of (+/-)-, (+)- or (-)-N-0437 to the skin of
MPTP-treated animals did not alter locomotor activity in the initial 4 h although
other motor disabilities were reduced. However, 24 h following application of the
racemate or the (-) enantiomer both locomotor activity and the other motor
deficits induced by MPTP were improved. The increase in locomotor activity
returned to basal values by 48-52 h following application of the racemate to the 
skin and by 72-76 h following administration of (-)-N-0437; the other motor
deficits induced by MPTP were reduced for up to 72-76 h by both (+/-)- and
(-)-N-0437. Application to skin of the (+) enantiomer produced no behavioural
improvement or stimulation of locomotor activity. Transdermal administration of
the active enantiomer of N-0437 may be of value in producing a prolonged reversal
of parkinsonian motor deficits in man.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(89)90348-8 
PMID: 2572426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

