

4402. Eur J Pharmacol. 1989 Aug 3;166(3):373-80.

Stereoselective reversal of MPTP-induced parkinsonism in the marmoset after
dermal application of N-0437.

LÃ¶schmann PA(1), Chong PN, Nomoto M, Tepper PG, Horn AS, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Research Laboratories of Schering AG, Berlin, F.R.G.

The selective dopamine D-2 receptor agonist N-0437 produced a rapid and
dose-dependent reversal of motor deficits lasting 90-120 min following i.p. or
oral administration of the racemate to MPTP-treated common marmosets. In
contrast, topical application of (+/-)-, (+)- or (-)-N-0437 to the skin of
MPTP-treated animals did not alter locomotor activity in the initial 4 h although
other motor disabilities were reduced. However, 24 h following application of the
racemate or the (-) enantiomer both locomotor activity and the other motor
deficits induced by MPTP were improved. The increase in locomotor activity
returned to basal values by 48-52 h following application of the racemate to the 
skin and by 72-76 h following administration of (-)-N-0437; the other motor
deficits induced by MPTP were reduced for up to 72-76 h by both (+/-)- and
(-)-N-0437. Application to skin of the (+) enantiomer produced no behavioural
improvement or stimulation of locomotor activity. Transdermal administration of
the active enantiomer of N-0437 may be of value in producing a prolonged reversal
of parkinsonian motor deficits in man.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(89)90348-8 
PMID: 2572426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4403. J Hypertens. 1989 Aug;7(8):615-8.

Biochemical effects of prolonged renin inhibition in marmosets.

Wood JM(1), Jobber RA, Baum HP, de Gasparo M, Nussberger J.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Department, Ciba-Geigy Limited, Basel, Switzerland.

The renin inhibitor CGP 29,287 was administered continuously for 7 days (30 mg/kg
per day, intraperitoneally, via osmotic minipumps) to normotensive marmosets fed 
a low-salt diet. As a control, another group of marmosets was given vehicle only.
After 7 days of treatment, the mean arterial blood pressure of the CGP
29,287-treated marmosets was significantly lowered by about 23 mmHg. Plasma
immunoreactive total and active renin were increased 10- and sevenfold,
respectively, whereas plasma renin activity (PRA) was reduced by 95%. Plasma
angiotensin II (Ang II) and aldosterone were also reduced (by 97 and 85%,
respectively). Serum angiotensin converting enzyme activity was unchanged and
there were no differences in plasma concentrations of electrolytes, urea or
creatinine between CGP 29,287-treated and control marmosets. These results
indicate that although renin release is markedly stimulated after continuous
administration of a renin inhibitor for 7 days, the formation of Ang II and
aldosterone, the active hormones of the renin-angiotensin system, is
substantially reduced.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-198908000-00003 
PMID: 2681408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

