

4405. Acta Paediatr Jpn. 1989 Aug;31(4):428-35.

Milk-borne transmission of HTLV-I as a major route in the endemic cycle.

Hino S.

Mother-to-child transmission of HTLV-I as a major route in the endemic cycle of
HTLV-I was established by epidemiologic evidence that (1) 22% (17/78) of children
of HTLV-I carrier mothers were themselves carriers, in contrast to approximately 
1% of the young age population of the same area, (2) more than 95% (23/24) of
mothers of carrier children were themselves carriers, and (3) the product of the 
prevalence of carrier mothers and the incidence of carriers in children born to
them corresponded well to the prevalence of carrier children in the same area.
Intrauterine infection was not likely, since none of over 200 cord bloods of
babies born to carrier mothers showed infection markers, such as IgM antibody or 
viral antigens. The possibility of milk-borne transmission was supported by (1)
the presence of sufficient numbers of infected T-cells in the milk of carrier
mothers, (2) the fact that a common marmoset was found to be a carrier after oral
administration of the milk of carrier mothers, and (3) a retrospective analysis
which revealed that none of nine babies fed only compound milk were carriers. An 
ongoing intervention study showed that none of 47 babies whose mothers refrained 
from breast feeding had seroconverted at 12 months of age. Compound milk feeding 
by carrier mothers seems to be an effective measure to reduce dramatically the
infection rate of HTLV-I.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-200x.1989.tb01329.x 
PMID: 2514566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4406. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1989 Jul 31;162(2):686-93.

Effects of dietary eicosapentaenoate (20:5 n-3) on cardiac beta-adrenergic
receptor activity in the marmoset monkey.

Patten GS(1), Rinaldi JA, McMurchie EJ.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO, Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, Australia.

Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA; 20:5 n-3; ethyl ester) in combination with
atherogenic or non-atherogenic high fat diets was fed to young adult male
marmoset monkeys for a period of 30 weeks. EPA markedly reduced the raised plasma
cholesterol level evident when feeding an atherogenic diet but did not influence 
the cardiac membrane cholesterol-to-phospholipid ratio. EPA and its elongation
product 22:5 n-3 was incorporated into cardiac membrane phospholipids at the
expense of linoleic and arachidonic acids. Dietary EPA increased cardiac beta-AR 
affinity and reversed the decreased beta-AR affinity evident when feeding an
atherogenic diet.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-291x(89)92365-6 
PMID: 2547370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

