

4410. J Reprod Immunol. 1989 Jul;15(3):207-16.

Termination of pregnancy in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) following
administration of antiserum to chicken riboflavin carrier protein.

Natraj U(1), Kholkute SD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Bombay, India.

The presence of protein(s) which is immunologically and functionally similar to
the well characterised avian riboflavin carrier protein has been demonstrated in 
female common marmosets during pregnancy. The protein(s) that interacts with
[14C]riboflavin has an immunological homology to chicken riboflavin carrier
protein. The termination of pregnancy in four out of six marmosets following
administration of antiserum to chicken riboflavin carrier protein supports the
hypothesis that vitamin carrier protein ensures an uninterrupted supply of the
vitamin to the growing embryo and that immunoneutralization of maternal
riboflavin carrier protein leads to fetal death and termination of pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-0378(89)90012-0 
PMID: 2503615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4411. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1989 Jul;161(1):248-53.

Progesterone antagonist lilopristone: a potent abortifacient in the common
marmoset.

Puri CP(1), Patil RK, Kholkute SD, Elger WA, Swamy XR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

The effects of a progesterone antagonist ZK 98.734 (lilopristone) on
implantation, early pregnancy, and midpregnancy were studied in the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus jacchus. Treatment (5 mg/da intramuscularly for 3
consecutive days) on day (n = 8) after the midcycle peak in estradiol levels in
mated animals induced a premature drop in plasma progesterone levels and
shortened the ovarian cycle length. Treatment on day 20 (n = 5) or day 40 (n = 5)
induced a drop in progesterone levels and decidual collapse. In three animals
treated on day 40, vaginal bleeding was observed within 46 hours of the
initiation of treatment. Treatment on day 80 resulted in expulsion of the fetuses
with a mean induction abortion interval of 39 hours (range, 20 to 48 hours). The 
progesterone antagonistic effects of ZK 98.734 could be a result of the decrease 
in progesterone synthesis by the corpus luteum and/or placenta in addition to the
interference with the progesterone binding to its cellular receptors in the
target organ. Our study suggests that ZK 98.734 has potential for fertility
regulation. Clinical trials for postcoital contraception, induction of
menstruation, and early abortifacient effects are warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(89)90274-3 
PMID: 2502015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

