

4411. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1989 Jul;161(1):248-53.

Progesterone antagonist lilopristone: a potent abortifacient in the common
marmoset.

Puri CP(1), Patil RK, Kholkute SD, Elger WA, Swamy XR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

The effects of a progesterone antagonist ZK 98.734 (lilopristone) on
implantation, early pregnancy, and midpregnancy were studied in the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus jacchus. Treatment (5 mg/da intramuscularly for 3
consecutive days) on day (n = 8) after the midcycle peak in estradiol levels in
mated animals induced a premature drop in plasma progesterone levels and
shortened the ovarian cycle length. Treatment on day 20 (n = 5) or day 40 (n = 5)
induced a drop in progesterone levels and decidual collapse. In three animals
treated on day 40, vaginal bleeding was observed within 46 hours of the
initiation of treatment. Treatment on day 80 resulted in expulsion of the fetuses
with a mean induction abortion interval of 39 hours (range, 20 to 48 hours). The 
progesterone antagonistic effects of ZK 98.734 could be a result of the decrease 
in progesterone synthesis by the corpus luteum and/or placenta in addition to the
interference with the progesterone binding to its cellular receptors in the
target organ. Our study suggests that ZK 98.734 has potential for fertility
regulation. Clinical trials for postcoital contraception, induction of
menstruation, and early abortifacient effects are warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9378(89)90274-3 
PMID: 2502015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4412. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1989 Jun 8;1003(2):161-6.

In vivo formation of metabolites of prostaglandins I2 and I3 in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) following dietary supplementation with tuna fish oil.

Abeywardena MY(1), Fischer S, Schweer H, Charnock JS.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO, Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran Hill,
Australia.

Recent studies have shown that ingestion of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) in man
results in the formation of 'trienoic' prostanoids which amy partly explain the
potent antithrombotic/antiatherogenic properties of long-chain polyunsaturated
n-3 fatty acids (PUFAs). However, endogenous formation of cyclooxygenase
metabolites of EPA has not been demonstrated in an animal model, and in vitro
studies indicate a clear species difference in the conversion of EPA to PGI3.
Thus, in the present study, the in vivo formation of PGI3 following long-term
dietary tuna fish oil supplementation was investigated in a small non-human
primate - the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). The excretion of major
urinary metabolites 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha (PGI2-M) and delta
17-2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha (PGI3-M) was estimated as an index of total body
synthesis of PGI2 and PGI3, respectively. Following extraction, dinor prostanoid 
metabolites were separated by capillary gas chromatography and identified by
negative ion chemical ionization mass spectrometry. Supplementation of the
standard (reference) diet with either sheep fat or sunflower seed oil did not
alter the body production of PGI2-M. However, following the tuna fish
oil-enriched diet, there occurred not only an increase in urinary PGI2-M
(reference 70.7 +/- 9.0; tuna fish oil 115.5 +/- 12.1 ng/g creatinine, P less
than 0.05), but also a considerable formation of PGI3-M (62.9 +/- 5.3 ng/g
creatinine), which was not seen in any other dietary group; in addition, the
urinary level of immmunoreactive 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2/3 was reduced after
ingestion of tuna fish oil. These urinary changes were accompanied by a rise in
plasma phospholipid-bound EPA and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). In addition, tuna
fish oil supplementation resulted in a significant reduction in plasma
cholesterol (53%) and triacylglycerols (44%). The present study provides for the 
first time experimental evidence for the in vivo formation of PGI3 in an animal
model and also confirms the earlier observations in man following dietary fish
oil supplementation.

DOI: 10.1016/0005-2760(89)90250-6 
PMID: 2659082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

