

4412. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1989 Jun 8;1003(2):161-6.

In vivo formation of metabolites of prostaglandins I2 and I3 in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) following dietary supplementation with tuna fish oil.

Abeywardena MY(1), Fischer S, Schweer H, Charnock JS.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO, Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran Hill,
Australia.

Recent studies have shown that ingestion of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) in man
results in the formation of 'trienoic' prostanoids which amy partly explain the
potent antithrombotic/antiatherogenic properties of long-chain polyunsaturated
n-3 fatty acids (PUFAs). However, endogenous formation of cyclooxygenase
metabolites of EPA has not been demonstrated in an animal model, and in vitro
studies indicate a clear species difference in the conversion of EPA to PGI3.
Thus, in the present study, the in vivo formation of PGI3 following long-term
dietary tuna fish oil supplementation was investigated in a small non-human
primate - the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). The excretion of major
urinary metabolites 2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha (PGI2-M) and delta
17-2,3-dinor-6-keto-PGF1 alpha (PGI3-M) was estimated as an index of total body
synthesis of PGI2 and PGI3, respectively. Following extraction, dinor prostanoid 
metabolites were separated by capillary gas chromatography and identified by
negative ion chemical ionization mass spectrometry. Supplementation of the
standard (reference) diet with either sheep fat or sunflower seed oil did not
alter the body production of PGI2-M. However, following the tuna fish
oil-enriched diet, there occurred not only an increase in urinary PGI2-M
(reference 70.7 +/- 9.0; tuna fish oil 115.5 +/- 12.1 ng/g creatinine, P less
than 0.05), but also a considerable formation of PGI3-M (62.9 +/- 5.3 ng/g
creatinine), which was not seen in any other dietary group; in addition, the
urinary level of immmunoreactive 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2/3 was reduced after
ingestion of tuna fish oil. These urinary changes were accompanied by a rise in
plasma phospholipid-bound EPA and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). In addition, tuna
fish oil supplementation resulted in a significant reduction in plasma
cholesterol (53%) and triacylglycerols (44%). The present study provides for the 
first time experimental evidence for the in vivo formation of PGI3 in an animal
model and also confirms the earlier observations in man following dietary fish
oil supplementation.

DOI: 10.1016/0005-2760(89)90250-6 
PMID: 2659082  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4413. Am J Physiol. 1989 Jun;256(6 Pt 1):C1160-7.

Local cerebral glucose utilization during status epilepticus in newborn primates.

Fujikawa DG(1), Dwyer BE, Lake RR, Wasterlain CG.

Author information: 
(1)Epilepsy Research Laboratory, Veterans Administration Medical Center,
Sepulveda, California 91343.

The effect of bicuculline-induced status epilepticus (SE) on local cerebral
metabolic rates for glucose (LCMRglc) was studied in 2-wk-old
ketamine-anesthetized marmoset monkeys, using the 2-[14C]-deoxy-D-glucose
autoradiographical technique. To estimate LCMRglc in cerebral cortex and thalamus
during SE, the lumped constant (LC) for 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) and the rate
constants for 2-DG and glucose were calculated for these regions. The control LC 
was 0.43 in frontoparietal cortex, 0.51 in temporal cortex, and 0.50 in thalamus;
it increased to 1.07 in frontoparietal cortex, 1.13 in temporal cortex, and 1.25 
in thalamus after 30 min of seizures. With control LC values, LCMRglc in
frontoparietal cortex, temporal cortex, and dorsomedial thalamus appeared to
increase four to sixfold. With seizure LC values, LCMRglc increased 1.5- to
2-fold and only in cortex. During 45-min seizures, LCMRglc in cortex and thalamus
probably increases 4- to 6-fold initially and later falls to the 1.5- to 2-fold
level as tissue glucose concentrations decrease. Together with our previous
results demonstrating depletion of high-energy phosphates and glucose in these
regions, the data suggest that energy demands exceed glucose supply. The
long-term effects of these metabolic changes on the developing brain remain to be
determined.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpcell.1989.256.6.C1160 
PMID: 2735393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

