

4413. Am J Physiol. 1989 Jun;256(6 Pt 1):C1160-7.

Local cerebral glucose utilization during status epilepticus in newborn primates.

Fujikawa DG(1), Dwyer BE, Lake RR, Wasterlain CG.

Author information: 
(1)Epilepsy Research Laboratory, Veterans Administration Medical Center,
Sepulveda, California 91343.

The effect of bicuculline-induced status epilepticus (SE) on local cerebral
metabolic rates for glucose (LCMRglc) was studied in 2-wk-old
ketamine-anesthetized marmoset monkeys, using the 2-[14C]-deoxy-D-glucose
autoradiographical technique. To estimate LCMRglc in cerebral cortex and thalamus
during SE, the lumped constant (LC) for 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) and the rate
constants for 2-DG and glucose were calculated for these regions. The control LC 
was 0.43 in frontoparietal cortex, 0.51 in temporal cortex, and 0.50 in thalamus;
it increased to 1.07 in frontoparietal cortex, 1.13 in temporal cortex, and 1.25 
in thalamus after 30 min of seizures. With control LC values, LCMRglc in
frontoparietal cortex, temporal cortex, and dorsomedial thalamus appeared to
increase four to sixfold. With seizure LC values, LCMRglc increased 1.5- to
2-fold and only in cortex. During 45-min seizures, LCMRglc in cortex and thalamus
probably increases 4- to 6-fold initially and later falls to the 1.5- to 2-fold
level as tissue glucose concentrations decrease. Together with our previous
results demonstrating depletion of high-energy phosphates and glucose in these
regions, the data suggest that energy demands exceed glucose supply. The
long-term effects of these metabolic changes on the developing brain remain to be
determined.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpcell.1989.256.6.C1160 
PMID: 2735393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4414. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1989 Jun;28(2):142-8.

The protein requirement of adult marmosets: nitrogen balances and net protein
utilization of milk proteins, soy protein, and amino acid mixtures.

Zucker H(1), Flurer CI.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, FRG.

Nitrogen balance studies were conducted in adult male marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) using purified and semipurified diets with protein levels between 0% and
7%. Daily nitrogen loss in a state of prolonged protein free nutrition was 131
+/- 16 mg/kg body weight0.75. Zero nitrogen balance resulted from mean daily
intake of 261 mg nitrogen/kg0.75 when high quality protein sources were used.
Very low protein intake or the lack of arginine and histidine in an amino acid
mixture induced coprophagy. It is concluded that the protein requirement of adult
marmosets is very similar to the protein requirement of adult humans (based on
metabolic body weight). About 6-7% high quality protein, based on dry matter,
suffice to avoid a negative nitrogen balance in all individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02030129 
PMID: 2503946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

