

4414. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1989 Jun;28(2):142-8.

The protein requirement of adult marmosets: nitrogen balances and net protein
utilization of milk proteins, soy protein, and amino acid mixtures.

Zucker H(1), Flurer CI.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, FRG.

Nitrogen balance studies were conducted in adult male marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) using purified and semipurified diets with protein levels between 0% and
7%. Daily nitrogen loss in a state of prolonged protein free nutrition was 131
+/- 16 mg/kg body weight0.75. Zero nitrogen balance resulted from mean daily
intake of 261 mg nitrogen/kg0.75 when high quality protein sources were used.
Very low protein intake or the lack of arginine and histidine in an amino acid
mixture induced coprophagy. It is concluded that the protein requirement of adult
marmosets is very similar to the protein requirement of adult humans (based on
metabolic body weight). About 6-7% high quality protein, based on dry matter,
suffice to avoid a negative nitrogen balance in all individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02030129 
PMID: 2503946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4415. Horm Behav. 1989 Jun;23(2):211-20.

Effects of male partners upon proceptivity in ovariectomized estradiol-treated
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF(1), Lloyd SA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh,
United Kingdom.

Effects of male partners upon the expression of female proceptivity were examined
in two experiments using 16 ovariectomized marmosets. Experiment 1 showed that
the female's proceptive tongue-flicking display (PTF) is triggered specifically
by eye contact with the male. Stimulation of PTF by administration of
estradiol-17 beta (E2) to ovariectomized females depends in part upon the male's 
responsiveness to female displays, such as "staring" and "freezing," which may
serve to attract his attention and to establish eye contact. Experiment 2
provided evidence that females' proceptivity decreases if their male partners are
lesioned in the preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus. Such males are sexually
hypoactive and less responsive to the females' visual displays. However, E2 still
activates PTF if females succeed in initiating eye contact with males. Results
indicate that variability in effects of E2 upon proceptivity in marmosets may be 
influenced by subtle aspects of facial communication between the sexes as well as
by individual differences in hormonal sensitivity. Copulatory activity in males
is not essential for E2 to exert its stimulatory action upon proceptivity in
female marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/0018-506x(89)90062-7 
PMID: 2501211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

