

4415. Horm Behav. 1989 Jun;23(2):211-20.

Effects of male partners upon proceptivity in ovariectomized estradiol-treated
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF(1), Lloyd SA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh,
United Kingdom.

Effects of male partners upon the expression of female proceptivity were examined
in two experiments using 16 ovariectomized marmosets. Experiment 1 showed that
the female's proceptive tongue-flicking display (PTF) is triggered specifically
by eye contact with the male. Stimulation of PTF by administration of
estradiol-17 beta (E2) to ovariectomized females depends in part upon the male's 
responsiveness to female displays, such as "staring" and "freezing," which may
serve to attract his attention and to establish eye contact. Experiment 2
provided evidence that females' proceptivity decreases if their male partners are
lesioned in the preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus. Such males are sexually
hypoactive and less responsive to the females' visual displays. However, E2 still
activates PTF if females succeed in initiating eye contact with males. Results
indicate that variability in effects of E2 upon proceptivity in marmosets may be 
influenced by subtle aspects of facial communication between the sexes as well as
by individual differences in hormonal sensitivity. Copulatory activity in males
is not essential for E2 to exert its stimulatory action upon proceptivity in
female marmosets.

DOI: 10.1016/0018-506x(89)90062-7 
PMID: 2501211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4416. J Helminthol. 1989 Jun;63(2):84-6.

Experimental Brugia pahangi and B. malayi infections of callitrichid primates.

Denham DA(1), Suswillo RR, Hetherington CM.

Author information: 
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, England.

The callitrichid primates, Callithrix jacchus jacchus (the marmoset) and Saguinus
labiatus (the tamarin) were inoculated with infective larvae of Brugia malayi and
B. pahangi. Microfilaraemia at low levels developed in 3 out of 4 C.j. jacchus
infected with B. malayi and living or dead adult worms found in all 4. Only one
of 4 C.j. jacchus became microfilaraemic (mf + ve) when given B. pahangi and
adults were found in two. Of 4 S. labiatus given B. pahangi one became very
lightly mf + ve and adults were found in 3. It is concluded that these animals
are not suitable hosts for chemotherapeutic experiments.

DOI: 10.1017/s0022149x00008816 
PMID: 2500478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

