

4419. Physiol Behav. 1989 May;45(5):1077-80.

Naloxone reversal of stress-induced suppression of LH release in the common
marmoset.

O'Byrne KT(1), Lunn SF, Dixson AF.

Author information: 
(1)M.R.C. Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh.

There is considerable evidence suggesting that endogenous opioid peptides (EOP)
might play a role in the defensive response to stressful stimuli. The stress
associated with receipt of aggression from a female conspecific and physical
restraint for collection of serial blood samples (at 10-min intervals) resulted
in a significant (p less than 0.05) suppression of LH secretion in the oestradiol
primed ovariectomized marmoset. Administration of the opioid receptor antagonist,
Naloxone (1 mg/kg) immediately before and after receipt of aggression completely 
prevented the stress-induced decrease in LH release. This suggests that EOP may
mediate, at least in part, this stress induced decline in LH release in the
marmoset.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(89)90241-2 
PMID: 2780870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4420. J Hypertens Suppl. 1989 Apr;7(2):S29-32.

Effects of renin inhibitors on the expression of kidney renin gene and tissue
renin-like activity.

Kokubu T(1), Kitami Y, Muneta S, Murakami E, Hiwada K.

Author information: 
(1)Kinki Central Hospital, Hyogo, Japan.

The effect of renin inhibitor ES-1005 on renin gene expression was investigated
in sodium-depleted marmosets. The kidneys were removed after continuous infusion 
of ES-1005 (12 mg/kg per h) for 2 h. The relative amount of kidney renin
messenger (m)RNA was measured by densitometric Northern blot analysis using an
alpha-32P-labelled human renin complementary (c)DNA fragment as a hybridization
probe. Plasma renin activity was completely inhibited by ES-1005. The level of
kidney renin mRNA decreased significantly to about one-third of the normal
control value. We also investigated the inhibitory potency of the renin inhibitor
ES-6864 on the renin-like activity in dog tissues (adrenal glands, aorta and
brainstem). ES-6864 inhibited the tissue renin-like activity with an IC50 of
10(-7) to 10(-8) mol/l in vitro. Renin inhibitors not only inhibit the activity
of plasma and tissue renin, but also suppress the synthesis of renin in the
kidney.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-198904002-00007 
PMID: 2666610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

