

4420. J Hypertens Suppl. 1989 Apr;7(2):S29-32.

Effects of renin inhibitors on the expression of kidney renin gene and tissue
renin-like activity.

Kokubu T(1), Kitami Y, Muneta S, Murakami E, Hiwada K.

Author information: 
(1)Kinki Central Hospital, Hyogo, Japan.

The effect of renin inhibitor ES-1005 on renin gene expression was investigated
in sodium-depleted marmosets. The kidneys were removed after continuous infusion 
of ES-1005 (12 mg/kg per h) for 2 h. The relative amount of kidney renin
messenger (m)RNA was measured by densitometric Northern blot analysis using an
alpha-32P-labelled human renin complementary (c)DNA fragment as a hybridization
probe. Plasma renin activity was completely inhibited by ES-1005. The level of
kidney renin mRNA decreased significantly to about one-third of the normal
control value. We also investigated the inhibitory potency of the renin inhibitor
ES-6864 on the renin-like activity in dog tissues (adrenal glands, aorta and
brainstem). ES-6864 inhibited the tissue renin-like activity with an IC50 of
10(-7) to 10(-8) mol/l in vitro. Renin inhibitors not only inhibit the activity
of plasma and tissue renin, but also suppress the synthesis of renin in the
kidney.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-198904002-00007 
PMID: 2666610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4421. J Appl Toxicol. 1989 Apr;9(2):109-11.

The histochemical location of three diagnostic enzymes in the marmoset liver.

Davy CW(1), Fulleylove M, Edmunds J, Allsop D, Eichler DA, Rushton B, Walker JM.

Author information: 
(1)Roche Products Ltd., Herts, UK.

The histochemical locations of alkaline phosphate (ALP), leucine aminopeptidase
(LAP) and gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) were demonstrated in the liver of the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Although all three enzymes were located in cell
membranes, the location of LAP was demonstrated by a chromogenic substrate, in
the canalicular membrane. GGT was seen in a vascular network, provisionally
identified as the peribiliary arterial plexus. Possible diagnostic applications
in toxicology are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.2550090207 
PMID: 2565922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

