

4421. J Appl Toxicol. 1989 Apr;9(2):109-11.

The histochemical location of three diagnostic enzymes in the marmoset liver.

Davy CW(1), Fulleylove M, Edmunds J, Allsop D, Eichler DA, Rushton B, Walker JM.

Author information: 
(1)Roche Products Ltd., Herts, UK.

The histochemical locations of alkaline phosphate (ALP), leucine aminopeptidase
(LAP) and gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT) were demonstrated in the liver of the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Although all three enzymes were located in cell
membranes, the location of LAP was demonstrated by a chromogenic substrate, in
the canalicular membrane. GGT was seen in a vascular network, provisionally
identified as the peribiliary arterial plexus. Possible diagnostic applications
in toxicology are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.2550090207 
PMID: 2565922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4422. J Hypertens Suppl. 1989 Apr;7(2):S37-42.

Haemodynamic effects of acute and chronic renin inhibition in marmosets.

Wood JM(1), Baum HP, Forgiarini P, Gulati N, Jobber RA, Neisius D, Hofbauer KG.

Author information: 
(1)Research Department, Ciba-Geigy Ltd, Basel, Switzerland.

We have developed marmoset models for the in vivo evaluation of primate-specific 
inhibitors of human renin. After acute intravenous administration to normotensive
sodium-depleted marmosets, renin inhibitors of different structural types induced
a maximum hypotensive response of a magnitude similar to that induced after
angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition. The response was prevented by
pretreatment with an ACE inhibitor. A close relationship between the inhibition
of plasma renin activity (PRA) and the fall in blood pressure was observed with
most of the inhibitors. CGP 29,287, a synthetic renin inhibitor, and R-3-36-16, a
monoclonal antibody, both induced a selective increase in renal blood flow
similar to that induced by an ACE inhibitor. A sustained reduction in blood
pressure was observed during continuous administration of CGP 29,287 or R-3-36-16
over 14 days, despite an increase in immunoreactive renin and an apparent
recovery of PRA. A similar blood pressure fall and an increase in plasma renin
was observed during continuous administration of an ACE inhibitor. The renin
inhibitor CGP 29,287 also lowered blood pressure after acute administration to
hypertensive marmosets with normal PRA. Our studies demonstrate that renin
inhibitors have similar haemodynamic effects to ACE inhibitors, and indicate that
they may have a similar antihypertensive efficacy.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-198904002-00009 
PMID: 2547039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

