

4424. J Reprod Fertil. 1989 Mar;85(2):641-6.

Blockade of the oestrogen-induced LH surge in the ovariectomized common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) by an LHRH antagonist.

O'Byrne KT(1), Lunn SF, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

Six long-term ovariectomized adult marmoset monkeys were treated at 0 h with 35
micrograms oestradiol benzoate s.c. to induce an LH surge. They were also treated
with detirelix (an LHRH antagonist) at 0 h, 12 h and 24 h (Exp. 1), or at 0 h and
24 h (Exp. 2) at a dose of 300 micrograms/kg s.c., or received the detirelix
vehicle alone at 0 h, 12 h and 24 h (Exp. 3). All animals received the three
treatments, with at least 4 weeks between experiments. Blood samples were
collected at 0 h and at 6-12 h intervals for 72 h after oestradiol for the
determination of plasma LH by bioassay. In control animals, oestrogen treatment
resulted in a decline in plasma LH from 30.0 +/- 5.8 at 0 h to 12.8 +/- 2.6 ng/ml
at 6 h (negative feedback), followed by a positive feedback surge, reaching a
maximum of 148.0 +/- 34.6 ng/ml at 24 h. Values then declined to pretreatment
levels by 56 h. In contrast, antagonist-treated animals showed complete abolition
of the expected increase at 24 h, the low levels of the negative feedback phase
being maintained for 36-72 h. These results show that hypothalamic LHRH release
is essential during the oestrogen-induced LH surge, and that a direct
oestrogen-induced component at the pituitary level is not expressed in the
absence of LHRH in the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0850641 
PMID: 2539474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4425. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1989 Mar;28(1):49-55.

Ascorbic acid in a New World monkey family: species difference and influence of
stressors on ascorbic acid metabolism.

Flurer CI(1), Zucker H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Physiologische Chemie und Ernährungsphysiologie,
Tierärztlichen Fakultät, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, FRG.

Like other simian primates, the New World monkey Callithrix jacchus, marmoset,
and Saguinus fuscicollis, tamarin, require ascorbic acid as an essential
nutrient. For adult marmosets, a daily intake of 15 mg/kg metabolic body weight
was found to be necessary to obtain a serum level above the kidney threshold. A
survey of the serum ascorbic acid level of marmosets and tamarins in a breeding
colony resulted in a vast divergence between the two species, indicating a higher
ascorbic acid requirement for tamarins. Unaccustomed trial conditions or
additional stressors resulted in a higher catabolism of ascorbic acid to CO2 in
both species, measured with 14C labeled material, compared to a higher rate of
renal excretion when the animals were accustomed to the metabolic cage. These
isotope excretion studies suggest a different metabolic behavior of ascorbic acid
in the two species. This is supposedly caused by a higher sensitivity of the
tamarins when subjected to the same conditions as marmosets.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02025565 
PMID: 2497592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

