

4425. Z Ernahrungswiss. 1989 Mar;28(1):49-55.

Ascorbic acid in a New World monkey family: species difference and influence of
stressors on ascorbic acid metabolism.

Flurer CI(1), Zucker H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Physiologische Chemie und Ernährungsphysiologie,
Tierärztlichen Fakultät, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, FRG.

Like other simian primates, the New World monkey Callithrix jacchus, marmoset,
and Saguinus fuscicollis, tamarin, require ascorbic acid as an essential
nutrient. For adult marmosets, a daily intake of 15 mg/kg metabolic body weight
was found to be necessary to obtain a serum level above the kidney threshold. A
survey of the serum ascorbic acid level of marmosets and tamarins in a breeding
colony resulted in a vast divergence between the two species, indicating a higher
ascorbic acid requirement for tamarins. Unaccustomed trial conditions or
additional stressors resulted in a higher catabolism of ascorbic acid to CO2 in
both species, measured with 14C labeled material, compared to a higher rate of
renal excretion when the animals were accustomed to the metabolic cage. These
isotope excretion studies suggest a different metabolic behavior of ascorbic acid
in the two species. This is supposedly caused by a higher sensitivity of the
tamarins when subjected to the same conditions as marmosets.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02025565 
PMID: 2497592  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4426. Toxicol Lett. 1989 Feb;45(2-3):261-70.

Purification and properties of cytochrome P-450 from liver microsomes of
phenobarbital-treated marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Kastner M(1), Schulz-Schalge T, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Embryopharmacology, Free University Berlin,
Germany.

One form of cytochrome P-450 from phenobarbital-induced marmoset liver was
purified to apparent electrophoretic homogeneity and compared with the major
inducible form isolated from rat liver. Whereas spectral properties and molecular
weights, as well as catalytic activities towards aminopyrine and ethylmorphine
N-demethylation are quite similar, rates of O-dealkylation with enzymes from the 
two species are considerably different. While ethoxycoumarin deethylation for the
marmoset cytochrome is about one-fortieth of that for the rat, ethoxyresorufin
and even pentoxyresorufin dealkylations for the marmoset form are not detectable.
By contrast, aldrin epoxidation as catalyzed by this cytochrome is about three
times as high as that obtained from the rat.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-4274(89)90017-9 
PMID: 2919406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

