

4426. Toxicol Lett. 1989 Feb;45(2-3):261-70.

Purification and properties of cytochrome P-450 from liver microsomes of
phenobarbital-treated marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Kastner M(1), Schulz-Schalge T, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Embryopharmacology, Free University Berlin,
Germany.

One form of cytochrome P-450 from phenobarbital-induced marmoset liver was
purified to apparent electrophoretic homogeneity and compared with the major
inducible form isolated from rat liver. Whereas spectral properties and molecular
weights, as well as catalytic activities towards aminopyrine and ethylmorphine
N-demethylation are quite similar, rates of O-dealkylation with enzymes from the 
two species are considerably different. While ethoxycoumarin deethylation for the
marmoset cytochrome is about one-fortieth of that for the rat, ethoxyresorufin
and even pentoxyresorufin dealkylations for the marmoset form are not detectable.
By contrast, aldrin epoxidation as catalyzed by this cytochrome is about three
times as high as that obtained from the rat.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-4274(89)90017-9 
PMID: 2919406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4427. Anat Rec. 1989 Feb;223(2):181-4.

Immunoperoxidase localization of prostatic inhibin peptide in human, monkey, dog,
and rat prostates.

Garde SV(1), Sheth AR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

A comparative study on the localization of prostatic inhibin peptide was carried 
out by the immunoperoxidase technique in prostates of humans, bonnet and langur
monkeys, marmosets, dogs, and rats. A positive reaction was observed in the
prostatic epithelial cells of humans, in all three species of monkeys, and in the
rat, while the dog prostate did not exhibit any reaction. These observations
indicate a close immunological similarity among human, monkey, and rat prostatic 
inhibin peptides.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1092230210 
PMID: 2653107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

