

4429. J Appl Toxicol. 1989 Feb;9(1):33-7.

The diagnostic usefulness of isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH) in the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Davy CW(1), Fulleylove M, Edmunds JG, Eichler DA, Rushton B, Tudor RJ, Walker JM.

Author information: 
(1)Roche Products Limited, Welwyn Garden City, Herts, U.K.

Marmosets were given either a hepatotoxin, carbon tetrachloride, orally or an
i.m. injection of a mytoxin, chlorpromazine. Although muscle damage alone caused 
small increases in the plasma levels of lactate dehydrogenase, alanine
aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH),
only the isoenzyme analysis of ICDH can differentiate definitely between liver
and muscle damage. Only very severe muscle damage can increase the plasma
concentration of this enzyme but, in this case, the elevation of plasma
creatinine kinase levels helps differentiation. It is recommended that the
elevation of ICDH is the most specific indicator of hepatic damage in the
marmoset.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.2550090107 
PMID: 2494250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4430. Toxicol Lett. 1989 Feb;45(2-3):299-306.

Comparison of the metabolism and disposition of [3-14C]coumarin in the rat and
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Lake BG(1), Walters DG, Gangolli SD.

Author information: 
(1)British Industrial Biological Research Association (BIBRA), Carshalton, Surrey
(U.K.).

Male Sprague-Dawley rats and marmosets were given a single oral 25 mg/kg dose of 
[3-14C]coumarin and the excretion of radioactivity in the expired air, urine and 
faeces monitored up to 96 h. Excretion profiles were similar in both species with
the bulk of the dose being excreted in the urine and faeces within 24 h.
Chromatographic analysis of 0-48 h urine samples revealed similar metabolic
profiles with only small amounts of unchanged coumarin and very little
7-hydroxycoumarin. Coumarin 7-hydroxylase activity was not detectable in hepatic 
microsomes from either species. These results demonstrate that the disposition of
[3-14C]coumarin was similar in the rat and marmoset, a New World primate, and
that both species, unlike man, are poor 7-hydroxylators of coumarin.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-4274(89)90021-0 
PMID: 2493171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

