

443. J Neurosci. 2019 Oct 9;39(41):8024-8037. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0895-19.2019.
Epub 2019 Aug 28.

Mice Discriminate Stereoscopic Surfaces Without Fixating in Depth.

Samonds JM(1), Choi V(2), Priebe NJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Learning and Memory, Center for Perceptual Systems, and The
Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712 samondjm@gmail.com.
(2)Center for Learning and Memory, Center for Perceptual Systems, and The
Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712.

Stereopsis is a ubiquitous feature of primate mammalian vision, but little is
known about if and how rodents such as mice use stereoscopic vision. We used
random dot stereograms to test for stereopsis in male and female mice, and they
were able to discriminate near from far surfaces over a range of disparities,
with diminishing performance for small and large binocular disparities. Based on 
two-photon measurements of disparity tuning, the range of disparities represented
in the visual cortex aligns with the behavior and covers a broad range of
disparities. When we examined their binocular eye movements, we found that,
unlike primates, mice did not systematically vary relative eye positions or use
vergence eye movements when presented with different disparities. Nonetheless,
the representation of disparity tuning was wide enough to capture stereoscopic
information over a range of potential vergence angles. Although mice share
fundamental characteristics of stereoscopic vision with primates and carnivores, 
their lack of disparity-dependent vergence eye movements and wide neuronal
representation suggests that they may use a distinct strategy for
stereopsis.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Binocular vision allows us to derive depth
information by comparing right and left eye information. We characterized
binocular integration in mice because tools exist in these animals to dissect the
underlying neural circuitry for binocular vision. Using random dot stereograms,
we find that behavior and disparity tuning in the visual cortex share fundamental
characteristics with primates, but we did not observe any evidence of
disparity-dependent changes in vergence angle. We propose that mice use a
distinct strategy of stereopsis compared with primates by using a broad range of 
disparities to encode depth over a large field of view and to compensate for
nonstereoscopic changes in vergence angle that arise during natural behavior.

Copyright Â© 2019 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0895-19.2019 
PMCID: PMC6786824
PMID: 31462533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. PLoS One. 2019 Aug 27;14(8):e0221164. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221164.
eCollection 2019.

A versatile toolbox for knock-in gene targeting based on the Multisite Gateway
technology.

Yoshimatsu S(1)(2), Sone T(1), Nakajima M(1), Sato T(1), Okochi R(1), Ishikawa
M(1), Nakamura M(1), Sasaki E(3)(4), Shiozawa S(1), Okano H(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Proteolytic Neuroscience, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Wako 
City, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki City, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Wako City, Saitama, Japan.

Knock-in (KI) gene targeting can be employed for a wide range of applications in 
stem cell research. However, vectors for KI require multiple complicated
processes for construction, including multiple times of digestion/ligation steps 
and extensive restriction mapping, which has imposed limitations for the robust
applicability of KI gene targeting. To circumvent this issue, here we introduce
versatile and systematic methods for generating KI vectors by molecular cloning. 
In this approach, we employed the Multisite Gateway technology, an efficient in
vitro DNA recombination system using proprietary sequences and enzymes. KI vector
construction exploiting these methods requires only efficient steps, such as PCR 
and recombination, enabling robust KI gene targeting. We show that combinatorial 
usage of the KI vectors generated using this method and site-specific nucleases
enabled the precise integration of fluorescent protein genes in multiple loci of 
human and common marmoset (marmoset; Callithrix jacchus) pluripotent stem cells. 
The methods described here will facilitate the usage of KI technology and
ultimately help to accelerate stem cell research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221164 
PMCID: PMC6711506
PMID: 31454364  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.S. is currently a paid employee of Takara Bio
Inc., but all the experiments in this study were performed while he was in Keio
University, where he had no conflicts of interest with the company. H.O. serves
as a paid scientific advisor at SanBio Co. Ltd. and K Pharma Inc. The other
authors declare neither financial nor non-financial competing interests. This
does not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and
materials.

