

4431. Am J Primatol. 1989;17(1):73-79. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350170107.

Circadian pattern of plasma melatonin concentrations in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

Webley GE(1), Abbott DH(1), George LM(1), Hearn JP(1), Mehl H(2).

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London.
(2)Institute of Hormone and Fertility Research, Hamburg, Federal Republic of
Germany.

This study describes the concentrations of melatonin in plasma samples taken from
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) every 4 h over three 24-h periods. A
circadian pattern of secretion was apparent, with higher levels recorded at night
(20.00-08.00 h) than during the day (08.00-20.00 h) and a peak concentration at
20.00 h. There was a significant difference in the mean day and night
concentrations (32.5 ± 4.5 pg/ml versus 49.0 ± 6.9 pg/ml, respectively) with
individual concentrations ranging between<10-60 pg/ml in the day and 15-200 pg/ml
at night. Circadian plasma melatonin concentrations were similar over the three
24-h periods, in male (n = 3) and female (n = 3) monkeys, and in dominant
(cyclic, n = 5) and subordinate (acyclic, n = 4) females. The results show a less
pronounced circadian profile in the marmoset than is seen in the human but a
similar profile to that in the seasonally breeding rhesus monkey.

Copyright © 1989 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350170107 
PMID: 31968856 


4432. Am J Primatol. 1989;17(4):271-286. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350170403.

Characteristics of the circadian activity rhythm in common marmosets (Callithrix 
j. jacchus).

Erkert HG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Biologie III, Universität Tübingen, Tübingen, West Germany.

The circadian activity rhythm of the common marmoset, Callithrix j. jacchus was
investigated by long-term recording of the locomotor activity of 15 individuals
(5 males, 10 females) from 1.5 to 8 years old, both under constant illumination
and under LD 12:12. The mean period of the spontaneous circadian rhythm was 23.2 
± 0.3 h. Neither sex-specific differences nor a systematic influence of light
intensity on the spontaneous period were observed, but the period was dependent
on the duration of the trial and on the age of the individual. Due to the short
spontaneous period, in LD 12:12 there was a distinct advance of the activity
phase with respect to the light time and a masking of the true onset of activity 
by the inhibitory direct effect of low light intensity during the dark time.
After an 8 h delay shift of the LD 12:12, re-entrainment of the circadian
activity rhythm required an average of 6.8 ± 0.7 days; the average re-entrainment
time after an 8 h phase advance of the LD cycle was 8.6 ± 1.3 day. This
directional effect is ascribed to characteristics of the phase-response curve. No
ultradian components were observed, either in the LD-entrained or the
free-running circadian activity rhythm.

Copyright © 1989 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350170403 
PMID: 31964051 

