

4432. Am J Primatol. 1989;17(4):271-286. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350170403.

Characteristics of the circadian activity rhythm in common marmosets (Callithrix 
j. jacchus).

Erkert HG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Biologie III, Universität Tübingen, Tübingen, West Germany.

The circadian activity rhythm of the common marmoset, Callithrix j. jacchus was
investigated by long-term recording of the locomotor activity of 15 individuals
(5 males, 10 females) from 1.5 to 8 years old, both under constant illumination
and under LD 12:12. The mean period of the spontaneous circadian rhythm was 23.2 
± 0.3 h. Neither sex-specific differences nor a systematic influence of light
intensity on the spontaneous period were observed, but the period was dependent
on the duration of the trial and on the age of the individual. Due to the short
spontaneous period, in LD 12:12 there was a distinct advance of the activity
phase with respect to the light time and a masking of the true onset of activity 
by the inhibitory direct effect of low light intensity during the dark time.
After an 8 h delay shift of the LD 12:12, re-entrainment of the circadian
activity rhythm required an average of 6.8 ± 0.7 days; the average re-entrainment
time after an 8 h phase advance of the LD cycle was 8.6 ± 1.3 day. This
directional effect is ascribed to characteristics of the phase-response curve. No
ultradian components were observed, either in the LD-entrained or the
free-running circadian activity rhythm.

Copyright © 1989 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350170403 
PMID: 31964051 


4433. Artery. 1989;16(2):90-104.

Hypolipemic activity of K12.148 in rats, marmosets and pigs.

Schliack M(1), Löser R, Seibel K, Blay KH.

Author information: 
(1)Klinge Pharma GmbH, Department of Biochemical Research, Munich, F.R.G.

The hypolipemic effect of K12.148, a new hypolipemic compound, was examined in
normolipemic rats, marmosets and pigs. It could be demonstrated that this
compound reduced serum lipids, and in particular serum cholesterol, very
effectively in all tested animal species. The analysis of the lipids of the pig
give evidence that the hypocholesterolemic effect is due to a reduction of LDL
only. In vitro experiments with rat liver homogenates suggest that the
hypocholesterolemic effect is brought about by the inhibition of hepatic
cholesterol synthesis.


PMID: 2712711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

