

4434. Comp Biochem Physiol A Comp Physiol. 1989;92(3):299-304.

Tissue specific differences in the fatty acid composition of the marmoset monkey 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Charnock JS(1), Abeywardena MW, McLennan PL.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, South Australia.

1. The possible relationship between the fatty acid composition of the adipose
tissue of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) and its dietary lipid intake
was examined after a long-term feeding trial. 2. Only the proportions of stearic 
and linoleic acid in the adipose tissue were similar to those in the diet. The
proportions of all other saturated and unsaturated fatty acid components were
significantly different thus greatly reducing the potential value of this
relationship in the marmoset. 3. The phospholipid fatty acid profiles of cardiac 
and skeletal muscle, aortae, kidney, liver, lung and brain were also compared to 
those of the plasma, platelets or red blood cells. 4. With the exception of the
liver where the fatty acid profile is similar to that of the plasma, no clear
relationships were found between the fatty acid profiles of these tissues and the
components of the blood. 5. The fatty acid composition of skeletal muscle was
very similar to that of the cardiac muscle of the marmoset, suggesting that
muscle biopsy might be useful as an index of cardiac muscle composition.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(89)90567-7 
PMID: 2565781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4435. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1989;52(3-4):132-47.

A re-evaluation of the social organisation of the Callitrichidae, with reference 
to the ecological differences between genera.

Ferrari SF(1), Lopes Ferrari MA.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropologisches Institut, Universität Zürich-Irchel, Switzerland.

Field studies of callitrichid species have reported a surprising degree of
variation in the composition of social groups, some of which has been interpreted
as evidence of 'cooperative polyandry' in recent reviews. The majority of the
evidence is, however, derived from studies of only one of the four callitrichid
genera, Saguinus. While most features of the morphology and behaviour of all
callitrichid species are broadly similar, studies of marmosets (Callithrix spp.
and Cebuella pygmaea) indicate that important ecological differences exist
between genera. These differences appear, in turn, to be reflected in marked
contrasts in both social organisation and mating systems. A re-evaluation of the 
social organisation of the callitrichids, based on differences in their
ecological adaptations, is presented.

DOI: 10.1159/000156392 
PMID: 2515129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

