

4440. Lab Anim. 1989 Jan;23(1):66-9.

Heinz bodies do not modify the membrane characteristics of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) erythrocytes.

Omorphos SC(1), Rice-Evans C, Hawkey C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Chemistry, Royal Free Hospital School of
Medicine, London, UK.

The possibility was examined that the membrane function of erythrocytes obtained 
from healthy common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) was modified by the presence
in the cells of Heinz bodies. No significant differences were found in
erythrocyte endogenous free malonyl dialdehyde (MDA) or reduced glutathione (GSH)
between normal human erythrocytes and marmoset erythrocytes containing Heinz
bodies. Membrane fluorescent chromolipids, surface charge and thiol levels were
similar in both species but average membrane bulk lipid fluidity was slightly
elevated in the marmosets. It was concluded that, in contrast to the situation in
human erythrocytes, the presence of Heinz bodies in red cells of marmosets does
not adversely affect the properties of the membrane.

DOI: 10.1258/002367789780886876 
PMID: 2498578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4441. Mov Disord. 1989;4(1):53-74.

The evolution and distribution of morphological changes in the nervous system of 
the common marmoset following the acute administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Gibb WR(1), Terruli M, Lees AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, National Hospitals for Nervous Diseases, Maida
Vale, London.

Six young adult marmosets received 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
in multiple doses (total 8-16 mg/kg over 2-13 days) sufficient to produce a
parkinsonian syndrome and were killed up to 3.5 months later. Cellular changes
were found in the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, and hypothalamus. The
earliest histological abnormalities were axonal swellings in proximal parts of
nigrostriatal axons. Subsequent changes in the substantia nigra were reduced
Nissl staining, reduced cell volume, and aggregation and loss of melanin
granules. Other effects were reduced nuclear and nucleolar volumes, depletion of 
cells, and hyperplasia of glial cells. Shrunken cytoplasm and nuclei stained
uniformly with eosin, and no cells showed cytoplasmic swellings or inclusions.
These cellular alterations, with nuclear changes resembling karyolysis, do not
occur in Parkinson's disease, which is characterised by Lewy body inclusions and 
signs of chromatolysis. The rapid appearance of axonal swellings, disruption of
Nissl substance, and cell shrinkage suggest an insult to energy producing
mechanisms. In this study, the absence of histological evidence of toxicity in
the locus coeruleus and also in the substantia innominata and in serotonergic
cell groups is unlike the more widespread degenerative changes of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870040109 
PMID: 2494438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

