

4443. Neurosci Lett. 1988 Nov 11;93(2-3):275-80.

The D1 agonist SKF 38393 inhibits the antiparkinsonian activity of the D2 agonist
LY 171555 in the MPTP-treated marmoset.

Nomoto M(1), Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Movement Disorder Research Group, University Department of Neurology,
London, U.K.

Administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to common
marmosets induced persistent motor deficits. Administration of the D1 agonist SKF
38393 (2.5-20 mg/kg, i.p.) caused a dose-dependent increase of this akinesia.
Administration of the D2 agonist LY 171555 (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) reversed the motor
deficits induced by MPTP treatment. Pretreatment of animals with SKF 38393
(2.5-20 mg/kg, i.p.) caused dose-dependent inhibition of the anti-parkinsonian
action of LY 171555 (0.3 mg/kg i.p.). In primates SKF 38393 does not reverse
motor deficits induced by MPTP and inhibits the actions of a D2-agonist.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(88)90095-x 
PMID: 2907373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4444. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1988 Nov;77(3):377-84.

Kin preference in marmosets and tamarins: Saguinus oedipus and Callithrix jacchus
(Callitrichidae, primates).

Harrison ML(1), Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Kent State University, Ohio 44242.

Field studies on callitrichid primates have suggested that some species may
exhibit a communal breeding system in which two or more males mate with a single 
female and cooperatively participate in infant rearing. However, high levels of
aggression have been observed between males under both laboratory and field
conditions. In avian models for communal breeding, cooperating males are often
closely related. In a laboratory test of a hypothesis of the amelioration of
aggression based on kinship, four mated pairs of both Saguinus oedipus and
Callithrix jacchus were introduced to both novel male conspecifics and to their
own male siblings, from whom they had been separated for a minimum of 4 months.
Significant differences (P less than .01) were seen in the responses of the two
species to male conspecifics generally: S. oedipus males responded to intruders
with overt aggression significantly more frequently than did marmosets while C.
jacchus males more frequently scent-marked than did tamarins. Evidence of
preference for kin males was seen in the significantly decreased frequencies of
these behaviors in the presence of kin males over those observed in the presence 
of novel males. It is argued that, under field conditions, cooperation between
male callitrichids may be facilitated by kinship. Further, twin births, short
gestation lengths, and interbirth intervals seen in callitrichid primates all
contribute to the number of socially familiar kin with which an individual animal
might cooperate.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330770310 
PMID: 3147598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

