

4447. Brain Res. 1988 Nov 1;463(2):317-29.

Effects of hypothalamic lesions upon the sexual and social behaviour of the male 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Lloyd SA(1), Dixson AF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh,
U.K.

The sexual and associated behaviour of 10 adult male marmosets was recorded
during pair tests with ovariectomized females, before and after bilateral thermal
lesions of the hypothalamus. Four sham-lesioned males served as controls. Lesions
varied in volume from 1.49 to 3.28 mm3 and extended from the ventromedial
hypothalamus to the diagonal band of Broca. Precopulatory behaviours
(anticipatory erections, tongue flicking and anogenital investigations of the
female) as well as frequencies of mounting, intromission and ejaculation
decreased in lesioned males. The greatest suppression of sexual behaviour
occurred after lesioning the anterior hypothalamus (AH), beneath the anterior
commissure, or at the junction of the AH with the preoptic area (POA). Lesions
confined to the POA had less profound behavioural effects. Treating
ovariectomized females with estradiol stimulated their proceptivity but had no
consistent effects upon the males' behaviour. Lesioned males did not exhibit
signs of social withdrawal and frequencies of allogrooming or grooming
invitations increased post-operatively. Preliminary studies on intermale
aggression indicated that lesions which had the greatest effect upon sexual
behaviour also tended to decrease aggressive interactions with other males.
Hypothalamic lesions did not affect plasma testosterone levels, except in one
male and only one animal showed signs of ill health (weight loss and hypothermia)
post-operatively. These results show that damage to the AH or AH-POA junction in 
male marmosets causes a profound suppression of sexual 'arousal' and copulatory
behaviour and that such affects are not due to androgen insufficiency or other,
non-specific, side effects of neural damage.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(88)90405-2 
PMID: 3143470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4448. Eur J Pharmacol. 1988 Nov 1;156(2):197-206.

The D-1 dopamine receptor partial agonist, CY 208-243, exhibits antiparkinsonian 
activity in the MPTP-treated marmoset.

Temlett JA(1), Chong PN, Oertel WH, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Neurology, National Hospital, London, U.K.

Administration of L-DOPA plus carbidopa, or the D-2 agonist (+)-PHNO, to
MPTP-treated common marmosets caused motor hyperactivity and a reversal of the
parkinsonian syndrome. In contrast, administration of the putative D-1 agonist
SKF 38393 was without effect on movement or motor disability. The subsequent
administration of another putative selective D-1 partial agonist CY 208-243
produced a dose-related improvement in motor activity and reversal of
parkinsonian motor deficits in MPTP-treated animals. The effect of CY 208-243 was
inhibited by pretreatment with the D-1 antagonist SCH 23390 and, to a lesser
extent, by the D-2 antagonist sulpiride. In another group of normal drug naive
marmosets, the administration of CY 208-243 produced only a small increase in
motor activity. Following treatment with MPTP and without other drug
administration, administration of CY 208-243 produced a marked reversal of motor 
deficits and locomotor hyperactivity. Thus, CY 208-243, suggested to be a partial
D-1 agonist exhibits antiparkinsonian activity in MPTP-treated marmosets which
does not require prior or concurrent exposure to D-2 agonists.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(88)90322-6 
PMID: 2977118  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

