

4449. Arzneimittelforschung. 1988 Oct;38(10):1539-43.

Pharmacokinetics and biodisposition of recombinant human interferon-alpha 2C in
rat and marmoset.

Greischel A(1), Tanswell P, Busch U, Schumacher K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Dr. Karl Thomae GmbH, Biberach an der Riss, Fed.
Rep. of Germany.

Pharmacokinetics and biodiposition of recombinant human interferon-alpha 2C
(IFN-alpha 2C) were studied in rats and marmosets (Callitrix jacchus). After
intravenous bolus dose, serum concentrations of IFN-alpha 2C antigen declined
triexponentially. After administration of 15 MIU/kg IFN-alpha 2C the mean t1/2
alpha was 3 min (rat) and 10 min (marmoset), t1/2 beta was 0.4 h (rat) and 1.2 h 
(marmoset), the mean terminal half-life t1/2 gamma was 2.8-6.3 h (rat) and 10-14 
h (marmoset). The short alpha-phase was dominant, consistent with the high total 
serum clearance of 5 ml/min/kg (rat) or 2 ml/min/kg (marmoset), respectively. The
low volumes of distribution (in both species 0.4-0.8 l/kg) indicated a mainly
extracellular distribution of this drug. Absolute bioavailability after
intramuscular and subcutaneous dosing ranged from 40-80% and the time of maximum 
serum level from 0.7-2.7 h (both species). Dose linearity was observed up to 15
MIU/kg for all routes of administration. The results demonstrate similarity of
IFN-alpha 2C pharmacokinetics in rat and marmoset. Biodisposition of IFN-alpha 2C
in rat was determined both by whole body autoradiography and analysis of antigen 
concentrations in tissue homogenates. The distribution of IFN-alpha 2C antigen
showed a high correlation with capillary permeability and blood content of the
different tissues. Thus, high levels were found in serum, kidney, lung, spleen,
heart and liver, whereas the concentrations in muscle and brain were extremely
low. Taken together, the data indicate that IFN-alpha 2C is predominantly
eliminated by glomerular filtration, followed by tubular reabsorption, and
finally lysosomal degradation in the kidney.


PMID: 3196399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4450. J Infect Dis. 1988 Oct;158(4):789-94.

Glomerulonephritis in common marmosets infected with Plasmodium brasilianum and
Epstein-Barr virus.

Wedderburn N(1), Davies DR, Mitchell GH, Desgranges C, de Th√© G.

Author information: 
(1)Royal College of Surgeons of England, St. Thomas' Hospital, London.

Plasmodium brasilianum causes chronic quartan malaria in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus, whereas Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is followed by an 
infectious mononucleosis-like syndrome that resolves. We infected weanling
marmosets with one or both of these pathogens. Timing of the infections
influenced outcome. Six animals were simultaneously infected with both agents;
four became seriously ill (with accompanying proteinuria and edema) and either
died or were killed. Histopathology indicated that glomerulonephritis had
developed. The two survivors had more-prolonged parasitemia than did animals
infected with P. brasilianum alone, as did animals infected with EBV before P.
brasilianum. Five of the six simultaneously infected animals had absent or low
titers of antibody to Epstein-Barr viral capsid antigens when compared with the
other EBV-infected animals. Our results suggest that combined infection may be
part of the etiology of quartan malarial nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/158.4.789 
PMID: 2844917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

