

4450. J Infect Dis. 1988 Oct;158(4):789-94.

Glomerulonephritis in common marmosets infected with Plasmodium brasilianum and
Epstein-Barr virus.

Wedderburn N(1), Davies DR, Mitchell GH, Desgranges C, de Thé G.

Author information: 
(1)Royal College of Surgeons of England, St. Thomas' Hospital, London.

Plasmodium brasilianum causes chronic quartan malaria in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus, whereas Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is followed by an 
infectious mononucleosis-like syndrome that resolves. We infected weanling
marmosets with one or both of these pathogens. Timing of the infections
influenced outcome. Six animals were simultaneously infected with both agents;
four became seriously ill (with accompanying proteinuria and edema) and either
died or were killed. Histopathology indicated that glomerulonephritis had
developed. The two survivors had more-prolonged parasitemia than did animals
infected with P. brasilianum alone, as did animals infected with EBV before P.
brasilianum. Five of the six simultaneously infected animals had absent or low
titers of antibody to Epstein-Barr viral capsid antigens when compared with the
other EBV-infected animals. Our results suggest that combined infection may be
part of the etiology of quartan malarial nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/158.4.789 
PMID: 2844917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4451. Neuropeptides. 1988 Oct;12(3):105-10.

Levels of Met-enkephalin, Leu-enkephalin, substance P and cholecystokinin in the 
brain of the common marmoset following long term
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,-tetrahydropyridine treatment.

Taquet H(1), Nomoto M, Rose S, Jenner P, Javoy-Agid F, Mauborgne A, Benoliel JJ, 
Marsden CD, Legrand JC, Agid Y, et al.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U.288, Faculté de Médecine Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

Common marmosets were treated daily with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP, 7-9 mg/kg i.p.) for 25 days, 
and then kept out of drug for three months before biochemical measurements in
various brain areas. This treatment induced a dramatic fall (-80%) in dopamine,
homovanillic acid and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in the putamen and
caudate nucleus, and a significant but less pronounced reduction (less than or
equal to 50%) in the levels of these compounds in the nucleus accumbens. In
contrast, the concentrations of four neuropeptides: met-enkephalin,
leu-enkephalin, substance P, and cholecystokinin, remained unaltered in all brain
areas examined in MPTP-treated marmosets. Therefore the neuropeptide alterations 
previously reported in Parkinson's disease are probably not secondary to the
severe lesion of dopaminergic neurones, but constitute another intrinsic feature 
of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0143-4179(88)90039-x 
PMID: 2468106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

