

4451. Neuropeptides. 1988 Oct;12(3):105-10.

Levels of Met-enkephalin, Leu-enkephalin, substance P and cholecystokinin in the 
brain of the common marmoset following long term
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,-tetrahydropyridine treatment.

Taquet H(1), Nomoto M, Rose S, Jenner P, Javoy-Agid F, Mauborgne A, Benoliel JJ, 
Marsden CD, Legrand JC, Agid Y, et al.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U.288, Faculté de Médecine Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

Common marmosets were treated daily with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP, 7-9 mg/kg i.p.) for 25 days, 
and then kept out of drug for three months before biochemical measurements in
various brain areas. This treatment induced a dramatic fall (-80%) in dopamine,
homovanillic acid and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in the putamen and
caudate nucleus, and a significant but less pronounced reduction (less than or
equal to 50%) in the levels of these compounds in the nucleus accumbens. In
contrast, the concentrations of four neuropeptides: met-enkephalin,
leu-enkephalin, substance P, and cholecystokinin, remained unaltered in all brain
areas examined in MPTP-treated marmosets. Therefore the neuropeptide alterations 
previously reported in Parkinson's disease are probably not secondary to the
severe lesion of dopaminergic neurones, but constitute another intrinsic feature 
of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0143-4179(88)90039-x 
PMID: 2468106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4452. Fertil Steril. 1988 Sep;50(3):503-9.

Births following the transfer of cultured embryos obtained by in vitro and in
vivo fertilization in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Lopata A(1), Summers PM, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria, Australia.

The aim of this study was to determine whether marmoset monkeys are a suitable
primate model for in vitro fertilization (IVF), embryo culture, and
transplantation studies. A prostaglandin analogue given in early pregnancy and
human chorionic gonadotropin given near the end of the ensuing follicular phase
were used for controlling the reproductive cycle, timing oocyte collection, and
synchronizing the cycles of oocyte donors and embryo recipients. Five embryos
obtained by IVF were transferred at early stages to the uterus of three
recipients, and two gave birth to live infants. Some of the embryos were cultured
to advanced blastocyst stages. In vivo fertilized oocytes were also cultured and 
transferred to two recipients, and one gave birth. We concluded that the marmoset
is one of the best primates for such investigations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)60141-3 
PMID: 3137105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

