

4453. Hypertension. 1988 Sep;12(3):317-23.

Fate of recombinant human renin administered exogenously to anesthetized monkeys.

Hiruma M(1), Kim S, Ikemoto F, Murakami K, Yamamoto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Osaka City University, Medical School, Japan.

Highly purified recombinant human renin (rh-renin), synthesized by Chinese
hamster ovary cells, was labeled with iodine-125 and was given intravenously to
pentobarbital-anesthetized common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to study the
fate of the circulating renin. Specific anti-rh-renin antiserum was used to
identify the 125I-rh-renin. Plasma disappearance of the exogenously administered 
125I-rh-renin in marmosets (n = 6) showed two exponential components, with a
half-life of 12.1 +/- 1.9 minutes for the rapid component and 120.3 +/- 16.4
minutes for the slow component. The metabolic clearance rate was 1.17 +/- 0.26
ml/min/kg. Thirty minutes after the injection of 125I-rh-renin, 43.1 +/- 0.9 and 
3.5 +/- 0.5% of the injected dose had distributed to the liver and the kidneys,
respectively. With time, the accumulated 125I-rh-renin in the liver and kidneys
decreased. The accumulation of 125I-rh-renin was less than 1% of the dose
injected in other organs such as lungs, heart, spleen, adrenal glands, testes,
and ovaries. Analysis of liver and kidney extracts by high performance liquid
chromatography at 30 and 120 minutes indicated that immunoreactive 125I-rh-renin 
decreased with time and was accompanied by an increase in nonimmunoreactive
degradation products of a low molecular weight. The incubation of 125I-rh-renin
with monkey or human plasma at 37 degrees C did not degrade the labeled renin.
Therefore, rh-renin was rapidly cleared from the circulation by the liver and the
kidney.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.12.3.317 
PMID: 3049339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4454. Brain Res. 1988 Aug 2;457(1):169-75.

Persistence of the pars externa system of the anterior olfactory nucleus in a
microsmatic primate, Callithrix jacchus.

Reyher CK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroanatomy, Freie Universit√§t Berlin, F.R.G.

The pars externa (PE) system of the anterior olfactory nucleus (AON) in a
primate, Callithrix jacchus, was defined by its architecture and by its
connection patterns with the main olfactory bulb (MOB) as revealed by tracing
techniques. Focal, unilateral injections of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated
horseradish peroxidase into the MOB yielded ipsilaterally labelled afferent
neurons in all subdivisions of the AON, with the exception of a clearly
circumscribed area in the ventrolateral retrobulbar field of the basocaudal
frontal lobe; in the contralateral hemisphere, this same area contained intensely
stained neurons forming a horizontal flat plate of small neurons. This unique
commissural connection pattern parallels the organization of the PE to MOB
connection in sub-primates (Schoenfeld and Macrides, 1984, J. Comp. Neurol., 227:
121-135). Thus, despite earlier controversy (Crosby and Humphrey, 1939, J. Comp. 
Neurol., 71: 121-213), there appears to be a PE system in a microsmatic primate
whose organization is quite similar to that in sub-primates.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(88)90071-6 
PMID: 2458800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

