

4455. Biochem Pharmacol. 1988 Aug 1;37(15):2939-48.

Hydrolysis of the four stereoisomers of soman catalyzed by liver homogenate and
plasma from rat, guinea pig and marmoset, and by human plasma.

de Jong LP(1), van Dijk C, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Prins Maurits Laboratory TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

Stereoselective hydrolysis at pH 7.5 and 37 degrees of C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman by
liver homogenate and plasma from rat, guinea pig and marmoset, and by human
plasma is studied by using the four single stereoisomers. The fast hydrolysis of 
the C(+/-)P(+)-isomers is monitored titrimetrically, whereas the decay of the
much slower reacting C(+/-)P(-)-isomers is followed by gas chromatographic
determination of the residual concentration. Values of Km and Vmax are evaluated 
for the enzymatic hydrolysis of the two relatively nontoxic C(+/-)P(+)-isomers.
The plasma enzymes have a high affinity for these isomers (Km: 0.01-0.04 mM); the
Km values of the liver enzymes vary between 0.04 and 0.7 mM. Except for rat liver
homogenate, only first-order rate constants can be obtained for catalyzed
hydrolysis (kc) of the highly toxic C(+/-)P(-)-isomers: most measurements with
C(+/-)P(-)-isomer concentrations greater than 0.3 mM are complicated by
epimerization to C(+/-)P(+)-isomers, which may conceal enzyme saturation with the
C(+/-)P(-)-isomers. The first-order rate constants of catalyzed hydrolysis
(Vmax/Km or kc) by all liver homogenates and plasmata decrease in the order:
C(+)P(+)- greater than C(-)P(+)- much greater than C(-)P(-)- greater than
C(+)P(-)-soman. The highest P(+)-/P(-)-stereoselectivity is found for rat plasma.
Rat liver homogenate is more potent than the other liver homogenates in
catalyzing the hydrolysis of both the C(+/-)P(+)- and the C(+/-)P(-)-isomers. Rat
plasma shows the highest activity for degradation of the C(+/-)P(+)-isomers, but 
is approximately as active as marmoset and human plasma for degradation of the
C(+/-)P(-)-isomers.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(88)90279-1 
PMID: 3395367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4456. J Endocrinol. 1988 Aug;118(2):259-64.

Effects of acute stress on the patterns of LH secretion in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

O'Byrne KT(1), Lunn SF, Dixson AF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

Stressful stimuli associated with aggressive encounters and low social rank may
affect female fertility in a variety of mammalian species. In these experiments
we examined the effects of aggressive encounters and physical restraint in a
primate chair on the patterns of LH secretion in ovariectomized, oestrogen-primed
female marmosets. Receipt of aggression from a female conspecific, followed by
physical restraint for collection of blood samples (at 10-min intervals for 4 h),
resulted in marked declines in LH concentrations during oestradiol-induced LH
surges in five animals (from 112 +/- 24 micrograms/l to 45 +/- 12 micrograms/l;
group means +/- S.E.M.; P less than 0.05). This was due to reductions in LH pulse
amplitude rather than to changes in pulse frequency. Decreases in plasma
concentrations of LH were reversed by treating females with exogenous
LH-releasing hormone (LHRH). Cortisol treatment had no effect on LH levels during
oestrogen-induced LH surges. Effects of aggressive encounters and physical
restraint on plasma LH were not therefore due to reduced pituitary responsiveness
to LHRH or to increased plasma concentrations of cortisol. In separate
experiments it was found that physical restraint alone had no effect on plasma LH
in habituated subjects, and that decreases in plasma LH after receipt of
aggression only occurred if animals were subsequently placed in the restraint
chair. A summation of stressful effects is therefore required to produce the fall
in circulating LH. A summation of social and other environmental stressors may
also underlie the reduced fertility seen in free-living animals.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1180259 
PMID: 3139816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

