

4456. J Endocrinol. 1988 Aug;118(2):259-64.

Effects of acute stress on the patterns of LH secretion in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

O'Byrne KT(1), Lunn SF, Dixson AF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

Stressful stimuli associated with aggressive encounters and low social rank may
affect female fertility in a variety of mammalian species. In these experiments
we examined the effects of aggressive encounters and physical restraint in a
primate chair on the patterns of LH secretion in ovariectomized, oestrogen-primed
female marmosets. Receipt of aggression from a female conspecific, followed by
physical restraint for collection of blood samples (at 10-min intervals for 4 h),
resulted in marked declines in LH concentrations during oestradiol-induced LH
surges in five animals (from 112 +/- 24 micrograms/l to 45 +/- 12 micrograms/l;
group means +/- S.E.M.; P less than 0.05). This was due to reductions in LH pulse
amplitude rather than to changes in pulse frequency. Decreases in plasma
concentrations of LH were reversed by treating females with exogenous
LH-releasing hormone (LHRH). Cortisol treatment had no effect on LH levels during
oestrogen-induced LH surges. Effects of aggressive encounters and physical
restraint on plasma LH were not therefore due to reduced pituitary responsiveness
to LHRH or to increased plasma concentrations of cortisol. In separate
experiments it was found that physical restraint alone had no effect on plasma LH
in habituated subjects, and that decreases in plasma LH after receipt of
aggression only occurred if animals were subsequently placed in the restraint
chair. A summation of stressful effects is therefore required to produce the fall
in circulating LH. A summation of social and other environmental stressors may
also underlie the reduced fertility seen in free-living animals.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1180259 
PMID: 3139816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4457. Dig Dis Sci. 1988 Aug;33(8):1013-9.

Effect of various biological factors on spontaneous marmoset and tamarin colitis.
A retrospective histopathologic study.

Clapp NK(1), Henke ML, Lushbaugh CC, Humason GL, Gangaware BL.

Author information: 
(1)Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Medical and Health Sciences Division,
Tennessee 37831-0117.

Histological sections of colons from 69 tamarins (46 Saguinus oedipus and 23
Saguinus fuscicollis illigeri) and 27 marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that died
between 1979 and 1984 were examined for colitis. Evaluated biological factors
were species, age at death, source of animals, manner of death, presence of colon
cancer, and time after importation. Most normal colons were found in young
animals (dead at less than 1 years of age). Nearly all (approximately 96%)
animals had colitis; 70-80% of most groups were graded as chronic colitis.
Usually, one grade adequately described the condition of the entire colon. The
strongest observed correlation of factors (P less than 0.05) was between acute
colitis and colon cancer in S. oedipus. A higher percentage of S. oedipus had
acute colitis than did the other two species. When colitis incidence data were
adjusted for S. oedipus with colon cancer, there were no observed species
differences between colons of colony-born and imported animals nor between those 
that died naturally and those that were euthanized. In an additional group of 18 
S. oedipus that were imported in 1975, acute colitis was found in 60% of those
dying immediately after importation (less than 1 year of colony age) and those
that survived greater than 3 years. At this time, no causative agent has been
identified in marmoset colitis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01535999 
PMID: 3134175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

