

4457. Dig Dis Sci. 1988 Aug;33(8):1013-9.

Effect of various biological factors on spontaneous marmoset and tamarin colitis.
A retrospective histopathologic study.

Clapp NK(1), Henke ML, Lushbaugh CC, Humason GL, Gangaware BL.

Author information: 
(1)Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Medical and Health Sciences Division,
Tennessee 37831-0117.

Histological sections of colons from 69 tamarins (46 Saguinus oedipus and 23
Saguinus fuscicollis illigeri) and 27 marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that died
between 1979 and 1984 were examined for colitis. Evaluated biological factors
were species, age at death, source of animals, manner of death, presence of colon
cancer, and time after importation. Most normal colons were found in young
animals (dead at less than 1 years of age). Nearly all (approximately 96%)
animals had colitis; 70-80% of most groups were graded as chronic colitis.
Usually, one grade adequately described the condition of the entire colon. The
strongest observed correlation of factors (P less than 0.05) was between acute
colitis and colon cancer in S. oedipus. A higher percentage of S. oedipus had
acute colitis than did the other two species. When colitis incidence data were
adjusted for S. oedipus with colon cancer, there were no observed species
differences between colons of colony-born and imported animals nor between those 
that died naturally and those that were euthanized. In an additional group of 18 
S. oedipus that were imported in 1975, acute colitis was found in 60% of those
dying immediately after importation (less than 1 year of colony age) and those
that survived greater than 3 years. At this time, no causative agent has been
identified in marmoset colitis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01535999 
PMID: 3134175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4458. J Comp Pathol. 1988 Jul;99(1):41-53.

Tissue activities of enzymes of diagnostic interest in the marmoset and rat.

Davy CW(1), Brock A, Walker JM, Eichler DA.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Safety Laboratory, Roche Products Limited, Welwyn Garden City, U.K.

The activities of enzymes of diagnostic interest were investigated in the liver, 
heart, kidney and muscle of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and the rat.
Methods of tissue extraction which gave maximal enzyme activity were used and
comparison between the species showed some major differences. AST, LDH and GDH
showed a similar distribution in both species but ICDH activity was much higher
in the rat heart than in any other rat or marmoset organ. ALP, LAP and GGT were
present in much higher activities in the rat kidney than in the marmoset kidney, 
a finding which was reversed in the liver of these animals. The major
ALT-containing organ in the rat was the liver but, in the marmoset, this enzyme
was found in relatively large quantities in the heart and muscle also. These
differences can be of importance when plasma enzyme activities are measured
following tissue damage.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9975(88)90103-x 
PMID: 2905366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

