

4458. J Comp Pathol. 1988 Jul;99(1):41-53.

Tissue activities of enzymes of diagnostic interest in the marmoset and rat.

Davy CW(1), Brock A, Walker JM, Eichler DA.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Safety Laboratory, Roche Products Limited, Welwyn Garden City, U.K.

The activities of enzymes of diagnostic interest were investigated in the liver, 
heart, kidney and muscle of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and the rat.
Methods of tissue extraction which gave maximal enzyme activity were used and
comparison between the species showed some major differences. AST, LDH and GDH
showed a similar distribution in both species but ICDH activity was much higher
in the rat heart than in any other rat or marmoset organ. ALP, LAP and GGT were
present in much higher activities in the rat kidney than in the marmoset kidney, 
a finding which was reversed in the liver of these animals. The major
ALT-containing organ in the rat was the liver but, in the marmoset, this enzyme
was found in relatively large quantities in the heart and muscle also. These
differences can be of importance when plasma enzyme activities are measured
following tissue damage.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9975(88)90103-x 
PMID: 2905366  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4459. J Endocrinol. 1988 Jun;117(3):329-39.

Social status controls LH secretion and ovulation in female marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus).

Abbott DH(1), Hodges JK, George LM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, Regent's
Park, London.

The suppression of ovulation in subordinate female marmosets was associated with 
suppressed pituitary LH secretion and reduced pituitary LH response to
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH). In subordinate females, basal plasma LH
concentrations were commonly below 2 IU/l (n = 5) (maximum 10.7 IU/l). Plasma
oestrogen concentrations were similarly low (maximum 0.62 nmol/l) and plasma
progesterone concentrations of below 30 nmol/l confirmed the anovulatory
condition. This infertility condition was rapidly reversed when subordinate
females (n = 5) were removed from their social groups and housed singly, when
plasma LH (maximum 140.0 IU/l) and oestrogen (maximum 7.84 nmol/l) concentrations
increased preceding ovulation. Infertility was rapidly reimposed when these
singly housed females were re-introduced to subordinate status in new social
groups, when plasma LH concentrations fell to their previous low values within 4 
days; no ovulation occurred thereafter. Plasma oestrogen levels also fell, but
less dramatically. The luteal phases of three of the subordinate females were
shortened following the re-instatement of subordinate status. The maximum LH
response of subordinate females to the highest dose of GnRH (200 ng) was only
19.1 +/- 6.7 IU/l (mean +/- S.E.M.; n = 8): this contrasted with that in dominant
females in either the follicular phase (40.0 +/- 13.3 IU/l; n = 6) or the luteal 
phase (126.7 +/- 24.9 IU/l; n = 10) of the ovarian cycle. These results suggest
that the social suppression of fertility in subordinate female marmosets is
mediated by impaired hypothalamic GnRH secretion. Such an immediate and precise
behavioural control of LH secretion and ovulation is without equal in anthropoid 
primates.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1170329 
PMID: 3134506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

