

4460. Am J Pathol. 1988 Jun;131(3):477-83.

Characterization of colonic cellular glycoconjugates in colitis and cancer-prone 
tamarins versus colitis and cancer-resistant primates.

Moore R(1), King N, Alroy J.

Author information: 
(1)New England Regional Primate Research Center, Southborough, Massachusetts.

Differences in colonic secretory glycoconjugates (ie, mucin) between normal and
ulcerative colitis-prone patients have been noted. Similar differences may occur 
in a corresponding primate model, the cotton-top tamarin (CTT), Saguinus oedipus,
a New World monkey which suffers from spontaneous chronic colitis and colon
cancer. Lectin reagents were used to characterize and compare colonic cell
surface, cytoplasmic, and secretory glycoconjugates of 9 clinically healthy
cotton-top tamarins, 7 colitis-susceptible, cancer-resistant tamarins (Callithrix
jacchus, Saguinus fuscicollis), and 8 colitis and cancer-resistant primates
(Aotus trivirgatus, Saimiri sciureus, Macaca fascicularis, and Macaca mulatta).
Paraffin-embedded colonic sections were labeled with ten different biotinylated
lectins and visualized by the avidin-biotin peroxidase (ABC) method. Significant 
differences were demonstrated in the pattern of lectin staining between the
colitis-resistant and colitis-prone groups of primates. The differences were
noted with Griffonia simplicifolia-I (GS-I), Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA), 
peanut agglutinin (PNA) before and after neuraminidase, Ricinus communis
agglutinin-I (RCA-I), soybean agglutinin (SBA), Ulex europaeus agglutinin-I
(UEA-I), wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), and succinylated WGA (S-WGA). Significant
differences between the CTT and phylogenetically related colitis-prone but
cancer-resistant tamarins were demonstrated with SBA, UEA-I, and PNA after
desialylation with neuraminidase. These results suggest that differences in
colonic cellular glycoconjugates between colitis- and cancer-susceptible species 
versus colitis-susceptible, cancer-resistant species may be associated with risk 
of cancer.


PMCID: PMC1880715
PMID: 3132857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4461. J Parasitol. 1988 Jun;74(3):514-5.

Refractoriness of Callithrix penicillata red blood cells to Plasmodium falciparum
in vivo and in vitro.

Rocha EM(1), Pereira LH, do Ros√°rio VE, Krettli AU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Parasitology, University of Minas Gerais.

Attempts to infect the New World marmot Callithrix penicillata with Plasmodium
falciparum were unsuccessful. Attempts were also made to infect red blood cells
of C. penicillata and Saimiri sciureus with P. falciparum in vitro, and these too
were unsuccessful due to a high rate of hemolysis produced by apparently adverse 
culture conditions. It is concluded that modifications to the existing culture
conditions will need to be made before successful parasitemia can be induced in
vitro in simian erythrocytes.


PMID: 3132548  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

