

4463. J Comp Neurol. 1988 May 22;271(4):533-58.

Distribution and some projections of cholinergic neurons in the brain of the
common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Everitt BJ(1), Sirki√§ TE, Roberts AC, Jones GH, Robbins TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, England.

The distribution of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive (ChAT-IR) neurons
was studied in the brain of the common marmoset by using immunohistochemistry.
ChAT-IR neurons were found in the medial septal nucleus, vertical and horizontal 
limb nuclei of the diagonal band, the nucleus basalis of Meynert,
pedunculopontine nucleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, and also in the
striatum, habenula, and brainstem cranial nerve motor nuclei. The organization of
ChAT-IR neurons in the basal forebrain, midbrain, and pons is consistent with the
Ch1-Ch6 nomenclature introduced by Mesulam et al. ('83). The combination of the
retrograde transport of HRP-WGA with ChAT immunohistochemistry revealed the
distribution of neurons in the Ch4 cell group projecting to the dorsolateral
prefrontal cortex. The activity of ChAT was highest in limbic cortical
structures, such as the hippocampus, and lowest in association areas of the
neocortex. Lesions at various loci in the basal forebrain resulted in
differential patterns of ChAT loss in the cortex, which suggests some degree of
topographical organization of Ch4 projections to the cortical mantle.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902710406 
PMID: 2454972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4464. Parassitologia. 1988 May-Dec;30(2-3):187-96.

A marmoset model for some New World dermatotropic leishmaniases.

Pereira LH(1), Melo AL, Mayrink W, De Resende DM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Parasitologia, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Brasil.

Callithrix penicillata is a good model for dermatotropic strains of some New
World Leishmania species (L. mexicana mexicana, L. m. amazonensis, and L.
braziliensis guyanensis). Both amastigotes and promastigotes readily infect these
primates, with a relative short period of incubation. The developed lesions
parallel those found in man, and despite the self healing presented by some
marmosets, cell and serum immunological responses are presented. Skin alterations
are confined to the site of inoculum, and visceralization is very rarely found. A
good response to standard antimonial treatment makes the model useful for
preclinical experiments with promising compounds.


PMID: 3152280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

