

4467. Hum Reprod. 1988 Apr;3(3):389-93.

Normal in-vivo development of marmoset monkey embryos after trophectoderm biopsy.

Summers PM(1), Campbell JM, Miller MW.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Zoological Society of London, 
UK.

A procedure was developed to remove trophectoderm cells from day-8 blastocysts of
the marmoset monkey. Using micromanipulative techniques, a tear was made in the
zona pellucida opposite the inner cell mass which facilitated the controlled
herniation of trophectoderm cells as the blastocysts developed in vitro. After 24
h (day-9 blastocysts) and 48 h (day-10 blastocysts) of culture approximately 20% 
and approximately 50% respectively of the blastocyst had herniated. The herniated
trophectoderm was cut off by freehand and the biopsied blastocysts transferred to
recipients. Normal offspring were born but pregnancies could be established from 
day-10 blastocysts only if the recipients were treated with human chorionic
gonadotrophin during early pregnancy. One pregnancy was established after the
transfer of three frozen biopsied day-10 blastocysts. Biopsies of 30-50 cells
from day-10 blastocysts could be readily grown in vitro as trophoblast vesicles
to in excess of 1000 cells but biopsies of less than 20 cells from day-9
blastocysts formed a monolayer of binucleated and multinucleated cells with
limited cell replication. Assuming human trophectoderm cells have a similar
capacity to the marmoset to grow in vitro, the application of this technique to
human blastocysts would provide sufficient cells on which the preimplantation
diagnosis of a genetic disorder could be made.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136713 
PMID: 3372701  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4468. Lab Anim. 1988 Apr;22(2):148-50.

A restraint system for the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

O'Byrne KT(1), Morris KD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

A method for restraining the marmoset in a primate chair is described. The device
is inexpensive to construct, is reliable, and the majority of animals can be
habituated to its use. The chair has been used in neurobiological studies
employing electrophysiological recordings, with or without concurrent collection 
of serial blood samples.

DOI: 10.1258/002367788780864501 
PMID: 3134573  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

