

4469. Biol Reprod. 1988 Apr;38(3):528-35.

Effect of antiprogestin ZK 98.734 on the ovarian cycle, early pregnancy, and on
its binding to progesterone receptors in the myometrium of marmoset Callithrix
jacchus.

Puri CP(1), Kholkute SD, Pongubala JM, Patil RK, Elger WA, Jayaraman S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

The antiprogestin ZK 98.734 (11 beta-(4-dimethylaminophenyl-17 beta-hydroxy-17
alpha-(3-hydroxy-prop-1(Z)-enyl-4,9(10)-estradien-3-one) was administered i.m. (5
mg/day) for three consecutive days to two groups of common marmosets. In one
group (nonpregnant, n = 6), it was injected during the luteal phase, and to the
second group (pregnant, n = 7), it was injected during early pregnancy, on Days
24-26 of the mid-cycle estradiol peak. Administration of ZK 98.734 during the
luteal phase caused a sharp drop in plasma progesterone levels. The luteal phase 
was shortened whether the drug was administered during the early or the late
luteal phase. Similarly, administration of ZK 98.734 during early pregnancy
caused a significant drop in progesterone levels, and pregnancy was terminated in
all of the animals. The post-treatment cycles in both groups of animals were
ovulatory and of normal duration. 3H-ZK 98.734 showed specific binding to
myometrial cytosol fraction. ZK 98.734 also displaced the binding of
3H-progesterone to progesterone receptors. However, progesterone had higher
binding affinity than did ZK 98.734. The antifertility action of ZK 98.734 could 
be a result either of its luteolytic action or of its blocking the progesterone
receptors in the target tissue. This study, therefore, indicates that in the
common marmoset ZK 98.734 is a progesterone antagonist with a potential to
terminate early pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod38.3.528 
PMID: 3132210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4470. Parasitology. 1988 Apr;96 ( Pt 2):241-50.

Plasmodium vivax malaria in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus: adaptation
and host response to infection.

Mitchell GH(1), Johnston DA, Naylor BA, Knight AM, Wedderburn N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, UMDS, The Medical School, Guy's Hospital, London.

Infection with Plasmodium vivax was established in splenectomized Callithrix
jacchus marmosets by inoculation of parasitized blood from Aotus trivirgatus
carrying the Vietnam Palo-Alto line of P. vivax. Subsequent blood passage through
intact marmosets resulted in higher peak parasitaemias (about 1% of red cells
infected) and the loss of stainable Sch√ºffner's dots in infected cells. Primary
infections with the adapted line were patent for 74 days or more, and induced
both a substantial antibody response, as determined by indirect fluorescence, and
some lymphocytosis, but no marked anaemia. Marmosets which had recovered from
their primary infection (or in which it was drug-cured) suffered abbreviated
patency with low-grade parasitaemia on re-infection.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000058248 
PMID: 3131721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

