

4470. Parasitology. 1988 Apr;96 ( Pt 2):241-50.

Plasmodium vivax malaria in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus: adaptation
and host response to infection.

Mitchell GH(1), Johnston DA, Naylor BA, Knight AM, Wedderburn N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, UMDS, The Medical School, Guy's Hospital, London.

Infection with Plasmodium vivax was established in splenectomized Callithrix
jacchus marmosets by inoculation of parasitized blood from Aotus trivirgatus
carrying the Vietnam Palo-Alto line of P. vivax. Subsequent blood passage through
intact marmosets resulted in higher peak parasitaemias (about 1% of red cells
infected) and the loss of stainable Schüffner's dots in infected cells. Primary
infections with the adapted line were patent for 74 days or more, and induced
both a substantial antibody response, as determined by indirect fluorescence, and
some lymphocytosis, but no marked anaemia. Marmosets which had recovered from
their primary infection (or in which it was drug-cured) suffered abbreviated
patency with low-grade parasitaemia on re-infection.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000058248 
PMID: 3131721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4471. Lab Anim Sci. 1988 Apr;38(2):183-6.

Endogenous N-excretion and minimal protein requirement for maintenance of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Flurer CI(1), Krommer G, Zucker H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Tierärztlichen Fakultät, Universität München, West
Germany.

The protein requirement for maintenance of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus was
investigated by factorial calculation via the N balance technique. Six adult male
marmosets were fed a protein-free pelleted diet for 22 days. When a low protein
diet (6%) was fed in the preperiod, only 7 days were necessary and when fed a
higher protein diet (18%) 10 days were necessary to reach a minimum of N
excretion during protein depletion. Body weight losses averaged 11% and food
intake was 21% lower in the protein free period. The average endogenous urine N
(EUN) was 62.1 mg N and endogenous fecal N (EFN) 49.2 mg N/kg W0.75. Body surface
losses (BSN) were assumed to be 20 mg N/kg W0.75. The total endogenous loss of
131.3 mg N/kg W0.75 is similar to that of other species. Net protein utilization 
(NPU) of well balanced proteins, determined near the N equilibrium, was 51.8%.
The calculated net protein requirement amounts to 313.6 mg N/kg W0.75, which
corresponds to a dietary protein content of 6% in a diet of high caloric density,
(about 19-20 MJ/kg dry matter) when the food intake is 3.3% of body weight.


PMID: 3131585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

