

4471. Lab Anim Sci. 1988 Apr;38(2):183-6.

Endogenous N-excretion and minimal protein requirement for maintenance of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Flurer CI(1), Krommer G, Zucker H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologie, Tierärztlichen Fakultät, Universität München, West
Germany.

The protein requirement for maintenance of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus was
investigated by factorial calculation via the N balance technique. Six adult male
marmosets were fed a protein-free pelleted diet for 22 days. When a low protein
diet (6%) was fed in the preperiod, only 7 days were necessary and when fed a
higher protein diet (18%) 10 days were necessary to reach a minimum of N
excretion during protein depletion. Body weight losses averaged 11% and food
intake was 21% lower in the protein free period. The average endogenous urine N
(EUN) was 62.1 mg N and endogenous fecal N (EFN) 49.2 mg N/kg W0.75. Body surface
losses (BSN) were assumed to be 20 mg N/kg W0.75. The total endogenous loss of
131.3 mg N/kg W0.75 is similar to that of other species. Net protein utilization 
(NPU) of well balanced proteins, determined near the N equilibrium, was 51.8%.
The calculated net protein requirement amounts to 313.6 mg N/kg W0.75, which
corresponds to a dietary protein content of 6% in a diet of high caloric density,
(about 19-20 MJ/kg dry matter) when the food intake is 3.3% of body weight.


PMID: 3131585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4472. J Pharm Pharmacol. 1988 Apr;40(4):302-5.

Zacopride: anxiolytic profile in rodent and primate models of anxiety.

Costall B(1), Domeney AM, Gerrard PA, Kelly ME, Naylor RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate School of Studies in Pharmacology, University of Bradford, UK.

Zacopride, a substituted benzamide derivative, was compared with diazepam in
three models of experimental or provoked anxiety. The drug's action (i) in
reducing aversion to a brightly lit environment was assessed in mice using a two 
compartment black and white test box system, (ii) in disinhibiting a suppressed
behaviour was measured in the rat social interaction test under high
light/unfamiliar conditions and (iii) in antagonizing a defensive response in the
marmoset was assessed using the threat of a human presence. Both zacopride and
diazepam enhanced exploratory behaviour and social interaction in the mouse and
rat models and antagonized the defensive response in the marmoset, zacopride
being 100 times more potent than diazepam. It is concluded that the 5-HT3
receptor antagonist, zacopride, alters rodent and primate behaviour in a manner
consistent with that of an anxiolytic agent.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2042-7158.1988.tb05254.x 
PMID: 2900320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

