

4472. J Pharm Pharmacol. 1988 Apr;40(4):302-5.

Zacopride: anxiolytic profile in rodent and primate models of anxiety.

Costall B(1), Domeney AM, Gerrard PA, Kelly ME, Naylor RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate School of Studies in Pharmacology, University of Bradford, UK.

Zacopride, a substituted benzamide derivative, was compared with diazepam in
three models of experimental or provoked anxiety. The drug's action (i) in
reducing aversion to a brightly lit environment was assessed in mice using a two 
compartment black and white test box system, (ii) in disinhibiting a suppressed
behaviour was measured in the rat social interaction test under high
light/unfamiliar conditions and (iii) in antagonizing a defensive response in the
marmoset was assessed using the threat of a human presence. Both zacopride and
diazepam enhanced exploratory behaviour and social interaction in the mouse and
rat models and antagonized the defensive response in the marmoset, zacopride
being 100 times more potent than diazepam. It is concluded that the 5-HT3
receptor antagonist, zacopride, alters rodent and primate behaviour in a manner
consistent with that of an anxiolytic agent.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2042-7158.1988.tb05254.x 
PMID: 2900320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4473. Hum Reprod. 1988 Apr;3(3):395-8.

Expression of C-type viral particles at implantation in the marmoset monkey.

Smith CA(1), Moore HD.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Zoological Society of London, 
UK.

Type C RNA retroviral particles have been observed budding from the plasma
membrane of syncytiotrophoblast during a study of embryo implantation in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). These viral particles appear in profusion
at the interface of syncytiotrophoblast with cytotrophoblast. They appear to be a
non-infective, endogenous viral component of the host genome, although the
precise role of the C-type virus in this context is unclear at present. Such
viral particles have been reported previously from studies of human term
placenta; however, this is the first report indicating that expression of viral
particles occurs at the earliest stages of embryo implantation.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136714 
PMID: 2836475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

