

4474. J Comp Neurol. 1988 Mar 8;269(2):235-48.

Connections of the primary auditory cortex in the common marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus jacchus.

Aitkin LM(1), Kudo M, Irvine DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.

The afferent and efferent connections of the primary auditory cortex (AI) of
common marmosets were traced following small injections of wheat germ agglutinin 
conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) made at best frequency
(BF)-defined sites in the AI. After the injections the animals remained
anesthetized for 15-23 hours; they were then perfused transcardially with
fixative and the brains were processed for WGA-HRP reaction product. Examination 
of the disposition of labelled material revealed the following results. First,
patches of terminal labelling, and to a lesser extent retrograde labelling, were 
found outside the injection site in the ipsilateral cortex rostral and caudal to 
the AI. Second, the region of the contralateral cortex corresponding to the
injection site contained labelled terminals throughout the depth of the cortex;
labelled neurons were found in the middle layers. Third, in each experiment a
discrete region of the medial geniculate body (MG) contained retrogradely
labelled neurons interspersed with anterogradely labelled terminals. These
regions had a banded appearance, were found in the dorsal and rostral half of the
MG, and shifted in location progressively dorsalward as the injection site BF
increased. The presence of projection zones rostral and caudal to the AI of
marmosets, and the disposition of the MG sources of projection in relation to BF,
are similar to observations made on other New World monkeys. The ipsilateral
corticocortical projections confirm electrophysiological evidence suggesting the 
existence of auditory fields rostral and caudal to the AI. The thalamocortical
auditory system of the marmoset appears relatively simple, with a comparatively
undifferentiated MG projecting to a cortical auditory system dominated by a large
AI.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902690208 
PMID: 3128585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4475. Cell Tissue Res. 1988 Mar;251(3):621-31.

Ultrastructure of the meninges at the site of penetration of veins through the
dura mater, with particular reference to Pacchionian granulations. Investigations
in the rat and two species of New-World monkeys (Cebus apella, Callitrix
jacchus).

Krisch B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anatomisches Institut der Universit√§t Kiel, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

At the sites where a vein penetrates through the dura mater, two aspects deserve 
particular attention: (i) The delineation of the perivascular cleft, a space
belonging to the interstitial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) compartment, toward the
interior hemal milieu of the dura mater. (ii) The relationship between the
perivascular arachnoid layer and the subdural neurothelium at the point of
vascular penetration. These problems were investigated in the rat and in two
species of New-World monkeys (Cebus apella, Callitrix jacchus). Concerning the
first aspect, tight appositions of meningeal cells to the vessel wall, the basal 
lamina of which is widened and enriched with microfibrils, prevent communication 
between the interstitial CSF in the perivascular cleft and the hemal milieu in
the dura mater. With reference to the second aspect, the perivascular arachnoid
cells are transformed into neurothelial cells at the point where they become
exposed to the hemal milieu of the dura mater and subsequently continuous with
the subdural neurothelium. Leptomeningeal protrusions encompassing outer CSF
space can penetrate into the dura mater. These protrusions may expand and branch 
repeatedly, forming along the wall of the dural sinus Pacchionian granulations.
At these sites, however, the structural integrity of the sinus wall and the
Pacchionian granulation is not lost. Numerous vesiculations not only in the sinus
and vascular walls, but also in the cellular arrays of the Pacchionian
granulations or paravascular leptomeningeal protrusions indicate mechanisms of
transcellular fluid transport. Moreover, the texture of the leptomeningeal
protrusions favors an additional function of these structures as a "volume"
buffer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00214011 
PMID: 3130190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

