

4475. Cell Tissue Res. 1988 Mar;251(3):621-31.

Ultrastructure of the meninges at the site of penetration of veins through the
dura mater, with particular reference to Pacchionian granulations. Investigations
in the rat and two species of New-World monkeys (Cebus apella, Callitrix
jacchus).

Krisch B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anatomisches Institut der Universit√§t Kiel, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

At the sites where a vein penetrates through the dura mater, two aspects deserve 
particular attention: (i) The delineation of the perivascular cleft, a space
belonging to the interstitial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) compartment, toward the
interior hemal milieu of the dura mater. (ii) The relationship between the
perivascular arachnoid layer and the subdural neurothelium at the point of
vascular penetration. These problems were investigated in the rat and in two
species of New-World monkeys (Cebus apella, Callitrix jacchus). Concerning the
first aspect, tight appositions of meningeal cells to the vessel wall, the basal 
lamina of which is widened and enriched with microfibrils, prevent communication 
between the interstitial CSF in the perivascular cleft and the hemal milieu in
the dura mater. With reference to the second aspect, the perivascular arachnoid
cells are transformed into neurothelial cells at the point where they become
exposed to the hemal milieu of the dura mater and subsequently continuous with
the subdural neurothelium. Leptomeningeal protrusions encompassing outer CSF
space can penetrate into the dura mater. These protrusions may expand and branch 
repeatedly, forming along the wall of the dural sinus Pacchionian granulations.
At these sites, however, the structural integrity of the sinus wall and the
Pacchionian granulation is not lost. Numerous vesiculations not only in the sinus
and vascular walls, but also in the cellular arrays of the Pacchionian
granulations or paravascular leptomeningeal protrusions indicate mechanisms of
transcellular fluid transport. Moreover, the texture of the leptomeningeal
protrusions favors an additional function of these structures as a "volume"
buffer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00214011 
PMID: 3130190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4476. J Reprod Fertil. 1988 Mar;82(2):743-52.

Induction of luteal regression in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) by a
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone antagonist and the effects on subsequent
follicular development.

Hodges JK(1), Green DI, Cottingham PG, Sauer MJ, Edwards C, Lightman SL.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
U.K.

Doses of 100 or 200 micrograms of a novel GnRH antagonist ([N-acetyl-D beta
Na11-D-pCl-Phe2-D-Phe3-D-Arg6-Phe7-Arg8-D-Ala10]NH2 GnRH) (4 animals/dose) were
administered on Days 10/11 of the luteal phase and induced a marked suppression
of circulating bioactive LH and progesterone concentrations within 1 day of
treatment (P less than 0.01). Thereafter, progesterone concentrations remained
low or undetectable until after the next ovulation. Similar results were obtained
when 200 micrograms antagonist were given on Days 5/6 of the luteal phase (N =
4). The interval from injection of antagonist (200 micrograms but not 100
micrograms) to ovulation (based on a rise in progesterone above 10 ng/ml) was
significantly longer than that from prostaglandin-induced luteal regression to
ovulation in control cycles (N = 4/treatment) (range, 13-15 days after antagonist
vs 8-10 days after prostaglandin, P less than 0.01). This delay of 4-5 days was
equivalent to the duration for which LH concentrations were significantly
suppressed by 200 micrograms antagonist when administered to ovariectomized
animals (N = 3). Corpus luteum function during the cycle after GnRH antagonist
treatment appeared normal according to the pattern of circulating progesterone.
These results show that corpus luteum function and preovulatory follicular
development in the marmoset monkey are dependent on pituitary gonadotrophin
secretion.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0820743 
PMID: 3129559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

