

4483. Am J Primatol. 1988;14(3):277-284. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350140308.

Chromosome studies of Saguinus midas niger (Callithricidae, Primates) from
Tucurui, Para, Brazil: Comparison with the karyotype of Callithrix jacchus.

Nagamachi CY(1), Pieczarka JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Centro de Ciěncias Biológicas, Universidade Fedral
do Pará, Belém, Pará, Brazil.

The karotype of Saguinus midas niger was studied by G-, C-, and nuclear organizer
region (NOR)-banding techniques. Variations in C-banding patterns were observed
in some chromosomes. The banding patterns obtained were compared with those
previously described for Callithrix jacchus. The two species differ by a
reciprocal translocation involving pairs 9 and 16; by a paracentric inversion in 
chromosomes 1, 13, 14, 18, and 22; and by a pericentric inversion in at least
four subtelocentric pairs (chromosomes 19, 20, 21, and 22), dislocating the
nucleolar organizer region from the small short arm in C. jacchus to the proximal
segment of the long arm in S. m. niger (or vice versa). The amount of
constitutive heterochromatin is greater in S. m. niger than in C. jacchus,
especially in chromosomes 4, 7, and 14. The Y chromosome is smaller in C. jacchus
than in S. m. niger.

Copyright © 1988 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350140308 
PMID: 31973446 


4484. Am J Primatol. 1988;16(1):51-61. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350160107.

A study of postnatal appendicular skeletal maturation in captive-born squirrel
monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis).

Galliari CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro Argentino de Primates (CAPRIM), Corrientes, Argentina.

This study is based on a mixed longitudinal radiographic sampling of appendicular
bones in 82 captive-born squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis). All appendicular
ossification centers had appeared radiographically by 17 weeks of age, and
epiphyseal fusion was complete by 47-53 months of age. No statistically
significant differences were found between the sexes in comparisons carried out
at birth and at 6 and 8 months of age. Valid sex comparisons could not be made at
other ages owing to the small size of the sample. The sequence of appearance of
the ossification centers (Spearman correlation coefficient of Saimiri vs.
Callithrix = 0.68) shows greater interspecies differences than the sequence of
fusion (Saimiri vs. Callithrix = 0.88).

Copyright © 1988 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350160107 
PMID: 31968880 

