

4484. Am J Primatol. 1988;16(1):51-61. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350160107.

A study of postnatal appendicular skeletal maturation in captive-born squirrel
monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis).

Galliari CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro Argentino de Primates (CAPRIM), Corrientes, Argentina.

This study is based on a mixed longitudinal radiographic sampling of appendicular
bones in 82 captive-born squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis). All appendicular
ossification centers had appeared radiographically by 17 weeks of age, and
epiphyseal fusion was complete by 47-53 months of age. No statistically
significant differences were found between the sexes in comparisons carried out
at birth and at 6 and 8 months of age. Valid sex comparisons could not be made at
other ages owing to the small size of the sample. The sequence of appearance of
the ossification centers (Spearman correlation coefficient of Saimiri vs.
Callithrix = 0.68) shows greater interspecies differences than the sequence of
fusion (Saimiri vs. Callithrix = 0.88).

Copyright © 1988 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350160107 
PMID: 31968880 


4485. Acta Anat (Basel). 1988;131(4):342-5.

Scanning electron microscope study of the communications between the anterior
chamber and the sinus venosus sclerae in primates.

Costa-Vila J(1), Ruano-Gil D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Barcelona,
Spain.

We have studied the morphology of the anatomical structures that permit
communication between the anterior chamber and the sinus venosus sclerae.
Examination of the posterior or inner wall of this canal, represented by the
sclerocorneal trabecula, in 15 species of primates and 5 adult humans, has
enabled us to observe the existence of some small orifices or stomata that are
the outermost part of the so-called Sondermann's canals, which in our opinion are
made by the successive confluence of the interstices worked in the interior of
the sclerocorneal trabecula by means of contraction of the longitudinal portion
of the ciliary muscle.

DOI: 10.1159/000146538 
PMID: 3376741  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

