

4487. Arch Toxicol. 1988 Jan;61(3):165-79.

Embryotoxic effects of thalidomide-derivatives in the non-human primate
Callithrix jacchus. I. Effects of
3-(1,3-dihydro-1-oxo-2H-isoindol-2-yl)-2,6-dioxopiperidine (EM12) on skeletal
development.

Merker HJ(1), Heger W, Sames K, Stürje H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Germany.

The response of pregnant marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to the thalidomide
derivative EM 12 was evaluated. EM 12 was selected for these studies because it
is more active than thalidomide and is much more stable for hydrolysis. Skeletal 
gross structural abnormalities were observed when EM 12 was given to marmosets
for 3-7 days during the period between days 49 and 60 post ovulation. Using the
treatment schedule finally adapted in our laboratory, i.e. treatment during days 
51-57 post ovulation, doses of 5 (or 10) mg EM 12/kg body wt induced the typical 
limb abnormalities known from man with an 80-100% certainty. In some animals we
could observe the typical pattern of abnormalities even with doses as low as 1 mg
EM 12/kg body wt. Abnormalities of the skeleton induced during this sensitive
period are described. None of these (except some bifurcations of ribs) were seen 
in any of the ten litters (23 fetuses) serving as controls during the period of
the study.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00316631 
PMID: 3355362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4488. Somatosens Mot Res. 1988;6(2):179-205.

Responsiveness and somatotopic organization of anterior parietal field 3b and
adjoining cortex in newborn and infant monkeys.

Krubitzer LA(1), Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240.

Microelectrodes were used to record from somatosensory areas 3b and adjoining
areas 3a and 1 in newborn monkeys. At birth, area 3b was responsive to cutaneous 
stimuli and had an adult-like somatotopic organization in marmosets and one
squirrel monkey, while areas 1 and 3a had only limited responsiveness. In newborn
macaque monkeys, cortex was unresponsive to cutaneous stimuli; however, by 1
month, areas 3b and 1 appeared to be adult-like in responsiveness and somatotopic
organization.

DOI: 10.3109/08990228809144673 
PMID: 3242345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

