

4488. Somatosens Mot Res. 1988;6(2):179-205.

Responsiveness and somatotopic organization of anterior parietal field 3b and
adjoining cortex in newborn and infant monkeys.

Krubitzer LA(1), Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240.

Microelectrodes were used to record from somatosensory areas 3b and adjoining
areas 3a and 1 in newborn monkeys. At birth, area 3b was responsive to cutaneous 
stimuli and had an adult-like somatotopic organization in marmosets and one
squirrel monkey, while areas 1 and 3a had only limited responsiveness. In newborn
macaque monkeys, cortex was unresponsive to cutaneous stimuli; however, by 1
month, areas 3b and 1 appeared to be adult-like in responsiveness and somatotopic
organization.

DOI: 10.3109/08990228809144673 
PMID: 3242345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4489. J Craniofac Genet Dev Biol. 1988;8(3):225-33.

Effect of iodine deficiency on craniofacial growth in young common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Goss AN(1), Sampson WJ, Townsend GC, McIntosh GH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

The effects of iodine deficiency on general and craniofacial growth were
determined in young common marmosets. Examinations, including direct measurement,
cephalometric radiology, and dental examination, were performed at three-month
intervals from birth to 1 year on a cross-sectional sample of three groups of
marmosets. The groups were those on a normal diet, n = 50; an iodine-deficient
diet during gestation and for 1 year postnatally, n = 26; and an iodine-deficient
diet only during gestation (returned to a normal diet at 1 month after birth), n 
= 18. The iodine-deficient animals were smaller in all dimensions, compared with 
controls, but they did not have typical cretin facies. Animals that were iodine
deficient during gestation but subsequently fed a normal diet were small
initially but displayed compensatory growth, so that by 1 year they were nearly
normal in size.


PMID: 3209685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

