

4489. J Craniofac Genet Dev Biol. 1988;8(3):225-33.

Effect of iodine deficiency on craniofacial growth in young common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Goss AN(1), Sampson WJ, Townsend GC, McIntosh GH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

The effects of iodine deficiency on general and craniofacial growth were
determined in young common marmosets. Examinations, including direct measurement,
cephalometric radiology, and dental examination, were performed at three-month
intervals from birth to 1 year on a cross-sectional sample of three groups of
marmosets. The groups were those on a normal diet, n = 50; an iodine-deficient
diet during gestation and for 1 year postnatally, n = 26; and an iodine-deficient
diet only during gestation (returned to a normal diet at 1 month after birth), n 
= 18. The iodine-deficient animals were smaller in all dimensions, compared with 
controls, but they did not have typical cretin facies. Animals that were iodine
deficient during gestation but subsequently fed a normal diet were small
initially but displayed compensatory growth, so that by 1 year they were nearly
normal in size.


PMID: 3209685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4490. Arch Toxicol. 1988;62(2-3):205-8.

Embryotoxic effects of thalidomide derivatives on the non-human primate
Callithrix jacchus; 3. Teratogenic potency of the EM 12 enantiomers.

Heger W(1), Klug S, Schmahl HJ, Nau H, Merker HJ, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

The teratogenic potencies of the enantiomers of
2-(2,6-dioxopiperidine-3-yl)-phthalimidine ( = EM 12), a teratogenic thalidomide 
analogue, were investigated in Callithrix jacchus, a primate very sensitive to
the teratogenic action of this thalidomide analogue. The results indicate that
the S-(-)-form of EM 12 is clearly more teratogenic than the R-(+)-form. The
interpretation of the studies designed to evaluate stereo-selective differences
in the teratogenicity of the enantiomers becomes difficult, since both
enantiomers racemise in vivo with appreciable rates (Schmahl et al. 1988a, b).
Therefore, it cannot be concluded as yet that the R-(+)-form lacks all
teratogenic potential.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00570141 
PMID: 3196154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

