

4490. Arch Toxicol. 1988;62(2-3):205-8.

Embryotoxic effects of thalidomide derivatives on the non-human primate
Callithrix jacchus; 3. Teratogenic potency of the EM 12 enantiomers.

Heger W(1), Klug S, Schmahl HJ, Nau H, Merker HJ, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

The teratogenic potencies of the enantiomers of
2-(2,6-dioxopiperidine-3-yl)-phthalimidine ( = EM 12), a teratogenic thalidomide 
analogue, were investigated in Callithrix jacchus, a primate very sensitive to
the teratogenic action of this thalidomide analogue. The results indicate that
the S-(-)-form of EM 12 is clearly more teratogenic than the R-(+)-form. The
interpretation of the studies designed to evaluate stereo-selective differences
in the teratogenicity of the enantiomers becomes difficult, since both
enantiomers racemise in vivo with appreciable rates (Schmahl et al. 1988a, b).
Therefore, it cannot be concluded as yet that the R-(+)-form lacks all
teratogenic potential.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00570141 
PMID: 3196154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4491. Drug Chem Toxicol. 1988;11(3):289-305.

A comparison of in vivo and in vitro rates of aging of soman-inhibited
erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase in different animal species.

Talbot BG(1), Anderson DR, Harris LW, Yarbrough LW, Lennox WJ.

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, U.S. Army
Environmental Hygiene Agency, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland 21010-5425.

This study was conducted to assess differences in the rate of aging of
soman-inhibited erythrocyte (RBC) acetylcholinesterase (AChE) from different
species and to determine whether the rate of aging in vitro approximates that in 
vivo following a single exposure to soman. The logarithm of the percentage RBC
AChE reactivated by 2-PAM after soman exposure was plotted as a function of time.
Linear regression analysis was used to determine the half-time (t1/2) for aging. 
In the in vivo experiments, the rapidity of aging increased from rat to guinea
pig to marmoset; the corresponding t1/2 values (mean +/- standard error) were 8.6
(+/- 0.94) min, 7.5 (+/- 1.7) min and 0.99 (+/- 0.10) min. The in vitro values of
t1/2 in marmoset and guinea pig were 1.1 (+/- 0.08) min and 8.0 (+/- 0.82) min,
respectively. Other t1/2 values computed for in vitro experiments were 1.4 (+/-
0.11) min for cynomolgus monkeys and 0.88 (+/- 0.03) min for squirrel monkeys.
The results indicate that, for marmoset and guinea pig, the in vitro values
closely approximate the in vivo. Since aging of soman-inhibited human and monkey 
RBC AChE occurs rapidly (1 min) in vitro, it is reasonable to assume that in man 
rapid aging will be crucial in delimiting successful treatment of soman
intoxication.

DOI: 10.3109/01480548809017884 
PMID: 3181042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

