

4491. Drug Chem Toxicol. 1988;11(3):289-305.

A comparison of in vivo and in vitro rates of aging of soman-inhibited
erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase in different animal species.

Talbot BG(1), Anderson DR, Harris LW, Yarbrough LW, Lennox WJ.

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Chemical Defense, U.S. Army
Environmental Hygiene Agency, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland 21010-5425.

This study was conducted to assess differences in the rate of aging of
soman-inhibited erythrocyte (RBC) acetylcholinesterase (AChE) from different
species and to determine whether the rate of aging in vitro approximates that in 
vivo following a single exposure to soman. The logarithm of the percentage RBC
AChE reactivated by 2-PAM after soman exposure was plotted as a function of time.
Linear regression analysis was used to determine the half-time (t1/2) for aging. 
In the in vivo experiments, the rapidity of aging increased from rat to guinea
pig to marmoset; the corresponding t1/2 values (mean +/- standard error) were 8.6
(+/- 0.94) min, 7.5 (+/- 1.7) min and 0.99 (+/- 0.10) min. The in vitro values of
t1/2 in marmoset and guinea pig were 1.1 (+/- 0.08) min and 8.0 (+/- 0.82) min,
respectively. Other t1/2 values computed for in vitro experiments were 1.4 (+/-
0.11) min for cynomolgus monkeys and 0.88 (+/- 0.03) min for squirrel monkeys.
The results indicate that, for marmoset and guinea pig, the in vitro values
closely approximate the in vivo. Since aging of soman-inhibited human and monkey 
RBC AChE occurs rapidly (1 min) in vitro, it is reasonable to assume that in man 
rapid aging will be crucial in delimiting successful treatment of soman
intoxication.

DOI: 10.3109/01480548809017884 
PMID: 3181042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4492. Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 1988;245(3):180-4.

The motor innervation of the soft palate. An anatomical study in guinea pigs and 
monkeys.

Strutz J(1), Hammerich T, Amedee R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

In an effort to gain a more precise understanding of the motor innervation of the
soft palate, a neuroanatomical tracer (horseradish peroxidase) was injected into 
the vela of nine guinea pigs and four monkeys. After 48 h the animals were
sacrificed and frozen frontal sections were appropriately reacted with
tetramethylbenzidine and counterstained with neutral red, and then evaluated by
means of light microscopy. In all specimens retrogradely labeled neurons appeared
in the brain stem. The distribution patterns of these labeled cells were to a
large degree comparable in both the guinea pigs and the monkeys. The complex
motor innervation of the soft palate was found to involve at least five different
centers, with the strongest staining seen in the nucleus ambiguus and the motor
nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. Additional cells of origin were discernible in
the retrofacial nucleus. Facial neurons, however, were labeled only occasionally.
Findings also showed that a previously undescribed component from the hypoglossal
nerve appears to be essential for lateral soft palate movement in both animal
models.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00464023 
PMID: 3178567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

