

4499. Vision Res. 1988;28(4):481-90.

Polymorphism of visual pigments in a callitrichid monkey.

Travis DS(1), Bowmaker JK, Mollon JD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Queen Mary College, University of London,
England.

Microspectrophotometric measurements of visual pigments have been obtained for a 
large sample of New World monkeys of the species Callithrix jacchus jacchus.
These animals exhibit a polymorphism of visual pigments. The rods (Lmax 499 nm)
and the short-wave receptors (Lmax 423 nm) appear to be common to all animals but
individuals differ in the number and spectral position of pigments in the
green-yellow spectral region. The latter pigments cluster near 545, 559 and 567
nm. Male monkeys draw one pigment from this set and female monkeys may draw one
or two. The results are generally consistent with a genetic theory that
postulates in Callithrix three possible alleles for a single locus in the
X-chromosome. It appears that polymorphisms of cone pigments may be widespread
among neotropical primates.

DOI: 10.1016/0042-6989(88)90170-8 
PMID: 3143179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4500. J Reprod Fertil Suppl. 1988;36:49-58.

Embryonic signals during the peri-implantation period in primates.

Hearn JP(1), Gidley-Baird AA, Hodges JK, Summers PM, Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
U.K.

During the peri-implantation period of pregnancy in primates, chorionic
gonadotrophin (CG) is the first clear signal of the embryo's presence and
viability. In the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) implantation begins on Day 11-12 
after ovulation and CG is secreted by the embryo from this time. The inner cell
mass is necessary for the normal secretion of CG by the trophoblast. Implantation
can be disrupted both in vivo and in vitro by antisera to the hCG-beta subunit.
The secretion of a platelet activating factor by the preimplantation embryo has
yet to be confirmed, as has the physiological function of this and other
preimplantation signals. Local sampling by perfusion of the corpus luteum allows 
a direct measurement of the interactions between luteotrophins and luteolysins,
as well as a method of screening potential new agents for regulating the function
of the corpus luteum.


PMID: 3142993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

