

4502. Neuroscience. 1987 Dec;23(3):1025-39.

An immunohistochemical study of the acute and long-term effects of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in the marmoset.

Waters CM(1), Hunt SP, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Unit, MRC Centre, Cambridge, U.K.

Administration of the drug 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine induces a
parkinsonian syndrome in primates. Intraperitoneal injections of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) produced symptoms of rigidity, akinesia and tremor which persisted for
at least one month. However, after this time, considerable behavioural recovery
occurred, although animals were still severely bradykinetic compared with
controls. Marmosets were allowed to survive for 1, 3 1/2 or 7 months prior to
histological and immunocytochemical analysis. Detection of catecholaminergic
neurons using antibodies directed against the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase
revealed a profound (80%) loss of dopaminergic cells from the substantia nigra
one month after initiation of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
treatment. This was accompanied by a severe gliosis. Fewer cells were lost from
the adjacent ventral tegmental area (45%), but dopamine-containing cells in other
brain areas were not obviously affected. At longer survival times the substantia 
nigra was less damaged, with a proliferation of glia in the pars compacta and a
loss of approximately 20% of the dopaminergic perikarya. Using
immunohistochemical techniques, the distribution of neuropeptides substance P,
[Met]enkephalin and dynorphin 1-17-like immunoreactivity were examined and found 
to exhibit distinctive patterns in the marmoset substantia nigra. The integrity
of these systems appeared intact at all times after
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment. These results support the
hypothesis that the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
produces a clinical syndrome, indistinguishable from Parkinson's disease, via a
selective destruction only of neurons with perikarya in the substantia nigra pars
compacta and the ventral tegmental area. The findings that the peptidergic input 
to these cells together with most non-nigral dopaminergic cell groups are not
damaged, indicate that the selectivity of the lesion produced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine appears greater than that seen in
idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The neurotoxic effects of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in the marmoset may not be permanent
since both behavioural and biochemical recovery were observed after several
months.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(87)90178-3 
PMID: 2893993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4503. J Dent Res. 1987 Nov;66(11):1684-6.

A cephalometric study of young marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Sampson WJ(1), Townsend GC, Goss AN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Adelaide, Australia.

Linear and angular measurements of young marmosets taken at three-month intervals
from a series of cephalograms are presented. They show that linear craniofacial
development was largely complete by six months of age, subsequent angular changes
being mainly related to dental development. No sexual dimorphism was apparent,
and there was substantial homogeneity in results for animals of the same age.
Thus, marmosets, with their low cost, ease of handling, and rapid maturation, may
provide a useful animal model for craniofacial research.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345870660111601 
PMID: 10872407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

