

4503. J Dent Res. 1987 Nov;66(11):1684-6.

A cephalometric study of young marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Sampson WJ(1), Townsend GC, Goss AN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Adelaide, Australia.

Linear and angular measurements of young marmosets taken at three-month intervals
from a series of cephalograms are presented. They show that linear craniofacial
development was largely complete by six months of age, subsequent angular changes
being mainly related to dental development. No sexual dimorphism was apparent,
and there was substantial homogeneity in results for animals of the same age.
Thus, marmosets, with their low cost, ease of handling, and rapid maturation, may
provide a useful animal model for craniofacial research.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345870660111601 
PMID: 10872407  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4504. J Virol. 1987 Nov;61(11):3485-90.

In vitro immortalization of marmoset cells with three subgroups of herpesvirus
saimiri.

Szomolanyi E(1), Medveczky P, Mulder C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester 01605.

Sequences within the rightmost 7 kilobases of the unique L DNA of herpesvirus
saimiri are required for oncogenicity of the virus. The same DNA region has been 
found to be highly variable among different strains of herpesvirus saimiri. On
the basis of this variability, herpesvirus saimiri strains were classified into
groups A, B, and non-A, non-B. Herpesvirus saimiri strains representing the three
groups were used successfully for in vitro immortalization of
phytohemagglutinin-activated, interleukin 2 (IL-2)-expanded peripheral blood
lymphocytes of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Peripheral blood leukocytes
could be immortalized from only a subset of common marmosets (5 of 13). All of
the immortalized cell lines contained covalently closed circular viral DNA
molecules and initially showed a low level of virus production. Cells
immortalized by group A and group non-A, non-B strains did not require IL-2 in
the medium. However, the only group B immortalized cell line, 473-SMHI, did not
grow well in the absence of IL-2. The different characteristics of cell lines
immortalized by herpesvirus saimiri strains belonging to different groups may
help to elucidate some functions coded by the highly variable DNA region which is
involved in the oncogenic process.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.61.11.3485-3490.1987 
PMCID: PMC255946
PMID: 2822956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

