

4509. Int J Androl. 1987 Aug;10(4):635-42.

Continuous light environment has no effect on the circadian testosterone rhythm, 
spermatogenesis or fertility of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kholkute SD(1), Jayaraman S, Kumar RA, Puri CP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

Maintenance of adult male marmosets in continuous light for 60 days had no effect
on the circadian rhythmicity of plasma testosterone levels, spermatogenesis or
fertility. The results indicate that photoperiodicity is not the environmental
determinant that regulates reproduction in male marmosets.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1987.tb00363.x 
PMID: 3654016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4510. J Endocrinol. 1987 Aug;114(2):231-9.

Regulation of the corpus luteum of early pregnancy in the marmoset monkey: local 
interactions of luteotrophic and luteolytic hormones in vivo and their effects on
the secretion of progesterone.

Hearn JP(1), Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London.

The interaction between luteotrophic and luteolytic agents in controlling
progesterone production by the marmoset corpus luteum in the late luteal
phase/early pregnancy was investigated at the local level in vivo using a
perfusion cannula system. Perfusion of the prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha)
analogue, cloprostenol (0.5 microgram/ml), resulted in an immediate fall in
progesterone production. This response was not sustained in two out of five
corpora lutea but pregnancy was terminated in all animals exposed to PGF2 alpha. 
Perfusion of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) (4 micrograms/ml) alone
significantly stimulated progesterone secretion but there was no response to hCG 
when the corpus luteum had previously been perfused with PGF2 alpha. Perfusion
with hCG together with PGF2 alpha prevented a fall in progesterone secretion. The
results suggest that the luteolytic action of PGF2 alpha in the marmoset may be
to prevent luteotrophic support of the corpus luteum. Melatonin (860 pmol/l),
perfused either with PGF2 alpha or after PGF2 alpha, stimulated progesterone
production. The ability of melatonin to influence progesterone production by the 
primate corpus luteum may therefore be by both a direct luteotrophic action and
the prevention of luteolysis. Application of the perfusion system in order to
investigate the ability of deglycosylated hCG to antagonize the action of hCG at 
the corpus luteum showed the necessity of testing pure preparations of hormones.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1140231 
PMID: 3477610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

