

451. Front Cell Neurosci. 2019 Jul 30;13:344. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2019.00344.
eCollection 2019.

Segmented Iba1-Positive Processes of Microglia in Autism Model Marmosets.

Sanagi T(1), Sasaki T(1), Nakagaki K(1), Minamimoto T(2), Kohsaka S(3), Ichinohe 
N(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, National Institute of Neuroscience, Kodaira, Japan.
(2)Department of Functional Brain Imaging, National Institute of Radiological
Sciences, National Institutes for Quantum and Radiological Science and
Technology, Chiba, Japan.
(3)National Institute of Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, Kodaira, Japan.
(4)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Wako, Japan.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is one of the most widespread neurodevelopmental
disorders, characterized by impairment in social interactions, and restricted
stereotyped behaviors. Using immunohistochemistry and positron emission
tomography (PET), several studies have provided evidence of the existence of
activated microglia in ASD patients. Recently, we developed an animal model of
ASD using the new world monkey common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and
demonstrated ASD-like social impairment after the in utero administration of
valproic acid (VPA). To characterize microglia in this marmoset model of ASD from
early toddler to adult, morphological analyses of microglia in VPA marmosets and 
age-matched unexposed (UE) marmosets were performed using immunohistochemistry
for microglia-specific markers, Iba1, and P2RY12. The most robust morphological
difference between VPA marmosets and UE marmosets throughout the life span
evaluated were the microglia processes in VPA marmosets being frequently
segmented by thin and faintly Iba1-positive structures. The segmentation of
microglial processes was only rarely observed in UE marmosets. This feature of
segmentation of microglial processes in VPA marmosets can also be observed in
images from previous studies on ASD conducted in humans and animal models.
Apoptotic cells have been shown to have segmented processes. Therefore, our
results might suggest that microglia in patients and animals with ASD symptoms
could frequently be in the apoptotic phase with high turnover rates of microglia 
found in some pathological conditions.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2019.00344 
PMCID: PMC6682657
PMID: 31417364 


452. Brain Behav Evol. 2019;93(2-3):92-107. doi: 10.1159/000500500. Epub 2019 Aug 15.

Critique of Pure Marmoset.

Preuss TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA, tpreuss@emory.edu.

The common marmoset, a New World (platyrrhine) monkey, is currently being
fast-tracked as a non-human primate model species, especially for genetic
modification but also as a general-purpose model for research on the brain and
behavior bearing on the human condition. Compared to the currently dominant
primate model, the catarrhine macaque monkey, marmosets are notable for certain
evolutionary specializations, including their propensity for twin births, their
very small size (a result of phyletic dwarfism), and features related to their
small size (rapid development and relatively short lifespan), which result in
these animals yielding experimental results more rapidly and at lower cost.
Macaques, however, have their own advantages. Importantly, macaques are more
closely related to humans (which are also catarrhine primates) than are
marmosets, sharing approximately 20 million more years of common descent, and are
demonstrably more similar to humans in a variety of genomic, molecular, and
neurobiological characteristics. Furthermore, the very specializations of
marmosets that make them attractive as experimental subjects, such as their rapid
development and short lifespan, are ways in which marmosets differ from humans
and in which macaques more closely resemble humans. These facts warrant careful
consideration of the trade-offs between convenience and cost, on the one hand,
and biological realism, on the other, in choosing between non-human primate
models of human biology. Notwithstanding the advantages marmosets offer as
models, prudence requires continued commitment to research on macaques and other 
primate species.

Â© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000500500 
PMCID: PMC6711801
PMID: 31416070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

