

4510. J Endocrinol. 1987 Aug;114(2):231-9.

Regulation of the corpus luteum of early pregnancy in the marmoset monkey: local 
interactions of luteotrophic and luteolytic hormones in vivo and their effects on
the secretion of progesterone.

Hearn JP(1), Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London.

The interaction between luteotrophic and luteolytic agents in controlling
progesterone production by the marmoset corpus luteum in the late luteal
phase/early pregnancy was investigated at the local level in vivo using a
perfusion cannula system. Perfusion of the prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha)
analogue, cloprostenol (0.5 microgram/ml), resulted in an immediate fall in
progesterone production. This response was not sustained in two out of five
corpora lutea but pregnancy was terminated in all animals exposed to PGF2 alpha. 
Perfusion of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) (4 micrograms/ml) alone
significantly stimulated progesterone secretion but there was no response to hCG 
when the corpus luteum had previously been perfused with PGF2 alpha. Perfusion
with hCG together with PGF2 alpha prevented a fall in progesterone secretion. The
results suggest that the luteolytic action of PGF2 alpha in the marmoset may be
to prevent luteotrophic support of the corpus luteum. Melatonin (860 pmol/l),
perfused either with PGF2 alpha or after PGF2 alpha, stimulated progesterone
production. The ability of melatonin to influence progesterone production by the 
primate corpus luteum may therefore be by both a direct luteotrophic action and
the prevention of luteolysis. Application of the perfusion system in order to
investigate the ability of deglycosylated hCG to antagonize the action of hCG at 
the corpus luteum showed the necessity of testing pure preparations of hormones.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1140231 
PMID: 3477610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4511. Fertil Steril. 1987 Aug;48(2):299-305.

Controlled ovulation in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) with human
chorionic gonadotropin following prostaglandin-induced luteal regression.

Hodges JK, Cottingham PG, Summers PM, Liang YN.

Controlled induction of ovulation in the marmoset monkey was attempted with a
single injection of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG; 50 IU) given on day 7
after prostaglandin-induced luteal regression. Animals given hCG (n = 12)
ovulated within a 2-day period (days 9 and 10 after prostaglandin) compared with 
a 4-day period (days 9 to 12) in the control group (n = 12). The mean interval to
ovulation was similar in both groups. There was no difference in the timing of
the preovulatory estradiol (E2) peak between groups, although E2 levels on the
day of hCG injection were lower than in controls on the day of the onset of the
luteinizing hormone surge. All animals given hCG ovulated and 11 of 12 became
pregnant. Ten of 11 embryos recovered surgically from six of these animals were
normal blastocysts; 5 of the remaining 6 animals carried pregnancies to term. The
results are of practical importance for experiments involving follicular and
oocyte maturation and the collection and transfer of embryos.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)59360-1 
PMID: 3475217  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

