

4514. Placenta. 1987 Jul-Aug;8(4):411-22.

Characteristics of trophoblastic tissue derived from in vitro culture of
preimplantation embryos of the common marmoset monkey.

Summers PM(1), Taylor CT, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
UK.

The features of trophoblastic tissue derived from the in vitro culture of
marmoset monkey embryos have been described. Long-term trophoblast cultures (in
excess of three years in one case) were established from the primary trophoblast 
monolayer of four of 38 embryos; division of one of these embryos produced two
long-term cultures. The trophoblast cells retained their ability to synthesize
and secrete chorionic gonadotrophin (CG) during maintenance in vitro and were
capable of prolonging the luteal phase when transferred to the uterus of
marmosets. A characteristic feature of the cultures was the formation of multiple
fluid-filled vesicles enclosed by a single layer of cytotrophoblast cells and
attached to the culture dish by a small monolayer of syncytiotrophoblast cells.
The tissue was propagated by cutting vesicles into small pieces and placing into 
a fresh culture dish; attempts to subculture using single-cell suspensions were
unsuccessful. These cultures provide a convenient source of marmoset CG for
purification as well as an in vitro system for studying other secretory products 
of primate trophoblast.

DOI: 10.1016/0143-4004(87)90068-3 
PMID: 3120174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4515. J Reprod Fertil. 1987 Jul;80(2):463-72.

Partial purification and characterization of chorionic gonadotrophin in plasma
and in culture medium of trophoblast cells from the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Saunders PT(1), Summers PM, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, Regent's
Park, London, U.K.

A biologically active gonadotrophin has been purified from the media of long-term
cultures of trophoblast cells of the common marmoset monkey by a combination of
precipitation and chromatography. Marmoset chorionic gonadotrophin (CG) is a
glycoprotein which binds Concanavalin A and wheat germ agglutinin. The protein
purified from culture media exists as several isoelectric species with pI in the 
range pH 3.5-4.5. On gel filtration it eluted with an apparent molecular weight
of 68-72,000 but on PAGE migrated as if it was 58-65,000. A glycoprotein with
similar characteristics has been recovered from plasma samples of pregnant
marmosets. Biological activity of partly purified CG from media, as determined by
a mouse testicular cell bioassay, was 1-3 i.u./mg protein.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0800463 
PMID: 3116232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

