

4515. J Reprod Fertil. 1987 Jul;80(2):463-72.

Partial purification and characterization of chorionic gonadotrophin in plasma
and in culture medium of trophoblast cells from the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Saunders PT(1), Summers PM, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, Regent's
Park, London, U.K.

A biologically active gonadotrophin has been purified from the media of long-term
cultures of trophoblast cells of the common marmoset monkey by a combination of
precipitation and chromatography. Marmoset chorionic gonadotrophin (CG) is a
glycoprotein which binds Concanavalin A and wheat germ agglutinin. The protein
purified from culture media exists as several isoelectric species with pI in the 
range pH 3.5-4.5. On gel filtration it eluted with an apparent molecular weight
of 68-72,000 but on PAGE migrated as if it was 58-65,000. A glycoprotein with
similar characteristics has been recovered from plasma samples of pregnant
marmosets. Biological activity of partly purified CG from media, as determined by
a mouse testicular cell bioassay, was 1-3 i.u./mg protein.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0800463 
PMID: 3116232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4516. Lab Anim. 1987 Jul;21(3):249-60.

Long-term data on the reproduction and maintenance of a colony of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) 1972-1983.

Box HO, Hubrecht RC.

We have used our laboratory records to compare data on the reproduction and
maintenance of common marmosets in different colonies and to provide additional
information on the species in captivity. Data are presented for a period of 12
years. This was long enough to allow information on longevity, mortality,
aggression and incest. In addition 543 infants were born from a total of 202
births. No seasonality was found and the highest proportion of births overall was
that of triplets. A significantly greater proportion of males was born, but
perinatal mortality reduced this to a proportion of 52.2% surviving males. The
interbirth interval for all normal births ranged from 145 to 382 days, with a
median of 158 days. There was no evidence that interbirth intervals increased
with age. The proportion of non-breeding pairs was small (4 out of 28) and
progesterone assays showed that these females were ovulating.

DOI: 10.1258/002367787781268747 
PMID: 3114559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

