

4516. Lab Anim. 1987 Jul;21(3):249-60.

Long-term data on the reproduction and maintenance of a colony of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) 1972-1983.

Box HO, Hubrecht RC.

We have used our laboratory records to compare data on the reproduction and
maintenance of common marmosets in different colonies and to provide additional
information on the species in captivity. Data are presented for a period of 12
years. This was long enough to allow information on longevity, mortality,
aggression and incest. In addition 543 infants were born from a total of 202
births. No seasonality was found and the highest proportion of births overall was
that of triplets. A significantly greater proportion of males was born, but
perinatal mortality reduced this to a proportion of 52.2% surviving males. The
interbirth interval for all normal births ranged from 145 to 382 days, with a
median of 158 days. There was no evidence that interbirth intervals increased
with age. The proportion of non-breeding pairs was small (4 out of 28) and
progesterone assays showed that these females were ovulating.

DOI: 10.1258/002367787781268747 
PMID: 3114559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4517. Brain Res. 1987 Jun 2;412(2):244-53.

Localization of neurotensin receptors in the forebrain of the common marmoset and
the effects of treatment with the neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Waters CM, Hunt SP, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

The distribution of neurotensin binding sites was mapped in the brain of the
common marmoset using [3H]neurotensin as the ligand. Autoradiographic techniques 
show that the density of receptors is particularly high in the substantia nigra, 
ventral tegmental area, olfactory tubercle and cerebral cortex and that the
distribution of neurotensin receptors in the cerebral cortex and striatum is
heterogenous. In the cerebral cortex neurotensin receptors are concentrated in
layers I, II, III and V, whilst receptor density is generally less in all layers 
of middle temporal cortex. Striatal neurotensin receptors conformed to a
striosomal distribution as defined by acetylcholinesterase staining with the
highest density of binding sites in the matrix. The neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine selectively destroyed over 80% of
the dopaminergic neurons of the marmoset substantia nigra and almost 60% of those
in the adjacent ventral tegmental area. The subsequent loss of a large proportion
of neurotensin receptors from marmoset substantia nigra and striatum suggests
their presence on the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(87)91130-9 
PMID: 3038264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

