

4517. Brain Res. 1987 Jun 2;412(2):244-53.

Localization of neurotensin receptors in the forebrain of the common marmoset and
the effects of treatment with the neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine.

Waters CM, Hunt SP, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

The distribution of neurotensin binding sites was mapped in the brain of the
common marmoset using [3H]neurotensin as the ligand. Autoradiographic techniques 
show that the density of receptors is particularly high in the substantia nigra, 
ventral tegmental area, olfactory tubercle and cerebral cortex and that the
distribution of neurotensin receptors in the cerebral cortex and striatum is
heterogenous. In the cerebral cortex neurotensin receptors are concentrated in
layers I, II, III and V, whilst receptor density is generally less in all layers 
of middle temporal cortex. Striatal neurotensin receptors conformed to a
striosomal distribution as defined by acetylcholinesterase staining with the
highest density of binding sites in the matrix. The neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine selectively destroyed over 80% of
the dopaminergic neurons of the marmoset substantia nigra and almost 60% of those
in the adjacent ventral tegmental area. The subsequent loss of a large proportion
of neurotensin receptors from marmoset substantia nigra and striatum suggests
their presence on the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(87)91130-9 
PMID: 3038264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4518. Isr J Med Sci. 1987 Jun;23(6):561-4.

Animal models of Mycoplasma genitalium urogenital infection.

Taylor-Robinson D(1), Furr PM, Tully JG, Barile MF, MÃ¸ller BR.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex, UK.

Male and female animals were inoculated urogenitally with Mycoplasma genitalium, 
recovered originally from men with nongonococcal urethritis. Mice, hamsters and
male rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were resistant. Male cynomolgus monkeys
(Macaca fascicularis) were not as sensitive as male chimpanzees (Pan
troglodytes): 9 of 11 developed an obvious genital tract infection, some shedding
organisms for more than 18 weeks. M. genitalium was recovered from the blood of
two of them when large numbers of organisms were in the urethra. Most of the
chimpanzees colonized with the organisms had increased numbers of
polymorphonuclear leukocytes in the genital tract and developed a fourfold or
greater antibody response. Female squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and female 
tamarins (Saguinus mystar) exhibited low-level genital tract infections following
intravaginal inoculation, whereas marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and chimpanzees 
developed prolonged infections after similar inoculation; thus, female
chimpanzees shed organisms for 12 to 15 weeks. Marmosets and grivet monkeys
(Cercopithecus aethiops) developed salpingitis with antibody responses after
intraoviduct inoculation, and baboons (Papio anubis) developed parametritis after
intracervical inoculation. The results offer substantial evidence for the
pathogenicity of M. genitalium for the urogenital tract of subhuman primates, and
suggest that the microorganism may have a role in human genital tract infections.


PMID: 3667225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

