

4518. Isr J Med Sci. 1987 Jun;23(6):561-4.

Animal models of Mycoplasma genitalium urogenital infection.

Taylor-Robinson D(1), Furr PM, Tully JG, Barile MF, MÃ¸ller BR.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex, UK.

Male and female animals were inoculated urogenitally with Mycoplasma genitalium, 
recovered originally from men with nongonococcal urethritis. Mice, hamsters and
male rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were resistant. Male cynomolgus monkeys
(Macaca fascicularis) were not as sensitive as male chimpanzees (Pan
troglodytes): 9 of 11 developed an obvious genital tract infection, some shedding
organisms for more than 18 weeks. M. genitalium was recovered from the blood of
two of them when large numbers of organisms were in the urethra. Most of the
chimpanzees colonized with the organisms had increased numbers of
polymorphonuclear leukocytes in the genital tract and developed a fourfold or
greater antibody response. Female squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and female 
tamarins (Saguinus mystar) exhibited low-level genital tract infections following
intravaginal inoculation, whereas marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and chimpanzees 
developed prolonged infections after similar inoculation; thus, female
chimpanzees shed organisms for 12 to 15 weeks. Marmosets and grivet monkeys
(Cercopithecus aethiops) developed salpingitis with antibody responses after
intraoviduct inoculation, and baboons (Papio anubis) developed parametritis after
intracervical inoculation. The results offer substantial evidence for the
pathogenicity of M. genitalium for the urogenital tract of subhuman primates, and
suggest that the microorganism may have a role in human genital tract infections.


PMID: 3667225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4519. Xenobiotica. 1987 Jun;17(6):733-40.

The measurement of ethylenethiourea and ethyleneurea in the rat and common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus after zineb (zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate) dosing.

Searle AJ, Stewart AC, Paul M.

The metabolism of the fungicide zineb, (zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate), has
been studied in the rat and the marmoset. 2. It was found in both species that a 
relatively large proportion (21-22%) of the original zineb administered was
detectable in the excreta as ethylenethiourea (ETU) a known mutagen, teratogen
and carcinogen. 3. A further proportion (2-5%) was determined to be ethyleneurea 
which is a metabolite of ETU. 4. Results of comparative experiments in marmosets 
revealed that ETU was photolabile in the presence of excreta, thus showing the
importance of conducting the studies in the dark.

DOI: 10.3109/00498258709043980 
PMID: 3114968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

