

4519. Xenobiotica. 1987 Jun;17(6):733-40.

The measurement of ethylenethiourea and ethyleneurea in the rat and common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus after zineb (zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate) dosing.

Searle AJ, Stewart AC, Paul M.

The metabolism of the fungicide zineb, (zinc ethylenebisdithiocarbamate), has
been studied in the rat and the marmoset. 2. It was found in both species that a 
relatively large proportion (21-22%) of the original zineb administered was
detectable in the excreta as ethylenethiourea (ETU) a known mutagen, teratogen
and carcinogen. 3. A further proportion (2-5%) was determined to be ethyleneurea 
which is a metabolite of ETU. 4. Results of comparative experiments in marmosets 
revealed that ETU was photolabile in the presence of excreta, thus showing the
importance of conducting the studies in the dark.

DOI: 10.3109/00498258709043980 
PMID: 3114968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4520. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1987 Jun;84(12):4346-50.

Active immunization against renin in normotensive marmoset.

Michel JB, Guettier C, Philippe M, Galen FX, Corvol P, MÃ©nard J.

Primate renins (human and monkey) are very similar. We used pure human renin to
immunize marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and thereby produce a chronic blockade of
the renin-angiotensinogen reaction. After a control period of 2 months, five male
marmosets, on their usual sodium-poor diet, were immunized against pure human
renin by three subcutaneous injections of 30 micrograms each, with complete and
then incomplete Freund's adjuvant. Three marmosets were injected with adjuvant
only and served as controls. Blood sampling and blood pressure measurements were 
performed weekly. After the third injection, the five marmosets immunized against
renin developed a high titer of renin antibodies (50% binding of 125I-labeled
human renin at a dilution of greater than or equal to 1:10,000). The antibodies
inhibited the enzymatic activity of both marmoset and human renins. At the same
time, systolic blood pressure decreased significantly from 125 +/- 13 mm Hg to 87
+/- 8 mm Hg (mean +/- SD; 1 mm Hg = 133 Pa). Plasma renin enzyme activity was
undetectable in three animals. Plasma aldosterone decreased significantly. After 
1-4 months with low blood pressure, a normal urinary output, and a normal plasma 
creatinine, the five marmosets became sick and died within one month. At autopsy 
an immunological renal disease, characterized by the presence of immunoglobulin
and macrophage infiltration colocalized with renin, was found. Granulomatous
formations, probably due to Freund's adjuvant, could be seen in the lungs and in 
the kidney. No immunoglobulin was detectable in extrarenal vessels or in other
organs. These experiments demonstrate that, in this primate, a chronic blockade
of the renin-angiotensin system can be achieved by active immunization against
homologous renin, but this blockade is associated with the development of an
autoimmune disease localized in the kidney.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.84.12.4346 
PMCID: PMC305082
PMID: 3108891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

