

452. Brain Behav Evol. 2019;93(2-3):92-107. doi: 10.1159/000500500. Epub 2019 Aug 15.

Critique of Pure Marmoset.

Preuss TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA, tpreuss@emory.edu.

The common marmoset, a New World (platyrrhine) monkey, is currently being
fast-tracked as a non-human primate model species, especially for genetic
modification but also as a general-purpose model for research on the brain and
behavior bearing on the human condition. Compared to the currently dominant
primate model, the catarrhine macaque monkey, marmosets are notable for certain
evolutionary specializations, including their propensity for twin births, their
very small size (a result of phyletic dwarfism), and features related to their
small size (rapid development and relatively short lifespan), which result in
these animals yielding experimental results more rapidly and at lower cost.
Macaques, however, have their own advantages. Importantly, macaques are more
closely related to humans (which are also catarrhine primates) than are
marmosets, sharing approximately 20 million more years of common descent, and are
demonstrably more similar to humans in a variety of genomic, molecular, and
neurobiological characteristics. Furthermore, the very specializations of
marmosets that make them attractive as experimental subjects, such as their rapid
development and short lifespan, are ways in which marmosets differ from humans
and in which macaques more closely resemble humans. These facts warrant careful
consideration of the trade-offs between convenience and cost, on the one hand,
and biological realism, on the other, in choosing between non-human primate
models of human biology. Notwithstanding the advantages marmosets offer as
models, prudence requires continued commitment to research on macaques and other 
primate species.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000500500 
PMCID: PMC6711801
PMID: 31416070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Sci Rep. 2019 Aug 7;9(1):11459. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-48009-3.

Short Interruptions of Imposed Hyperopic Defocus Earlier in Treatment are More
Effective at Preventing Myopia Development.

Benavente-Perez A(1), Nour A(2), Troilo D(2).

Author information: 
(1)SUNY College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA. abenavente@sunyopt.edu.
(2)SUNY College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of interrupting negative
lens wear for short periods early or late during the development of lens-induced 
myopia in marmosets. Sixteen marmosets were reared with a -5D contact lens on
their right eye (plano on contralateral eye) for 8 weeks. Eight marmosets had
lenses removed for 30 mins twice/day during the first four weeks (early
interruption) and eight during the last four weeks (late interruption). Data were
compared to treated controls that wore lenses continuously (N = 12) and untreated
controls (N = 10). Interocular differences (IOD) in vitreous chamber (VC) depth
and central and peripheral mean spherical refractive error (MSE) were measured at
baseline and after four (T4) and eight (T8) weeks of treatment. Visual experience
during the interruptions was monitored by measuring refraction while marmosets
were seated at the center of a 1 m radius viewing cylinder. At T4 the eyes that
were interrupted early were not different from untreated controls (p = 0.10) and 
at T8 had grown less and were less myopic than those interrupted later (IOD
change from baseline, VC: +0.07 ± 0.04 mm vs +0.20 ± 0.03 mm, p < 0.05; MSE:
-1.59 ± 0.26D vs -2.63 ± 0.60D, p = 0.13). Eyes interrupted later were not
different from treated controls (MSE, p = 0.99; VC, p = 0.60) and grew at the
same rate as during the first four weeks of uninterrupted lens wear (T4 - T0:
3.67 ± 1.1 µm/day, T8 - T4: 3.56 ± 1.3 µm/day p = 0.96). Peripheral refraction
was a predictive factor for the amount of myopia developed only when the
interruption was not effective. In summary, interrupting hyperopic defocus with
short periods of myopic defocus before compensation occurs prevents axial myopia 
from developing. After myopia develops, interruption is less effective.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-48009-3 
PMCID: PMC6685965
PMID: 31391523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

