

4520. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1987 Jun;84(12):4346-50.

Active immunization against renin in normotensive marmoset.

Michel JB, Guettier C, Philippe M, Galen FX, Corvol P, MÃ©nard J.

Primate renins (human and monkey) are very similar. We used pure human renin to
immunize marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and thereby produce a chronic blockade of
the renin-angiotensinogen reaction. After a control period of 2 months, five male
marmosets, on their usual sodium-poor diet, were immunized against pure human
renin by three subcutaneous injections of 30 micrograms each, with complete and
then incomplete Freund's adjuvant. Three marmosets were injected with adjuvant
only and served as controls. Blood sampling and blood pressure measurements were 
performed weekly. After the third injection, the five marmosets immunized against
renin developed a high titer of renin antibodies (50% binding of 125I-labeled
human renin at a dilution of greater than or equal to 1:10,000). The antibodies
inhibited the enzymatic activity of both marmoset and human renins. At the same
time, systolic blood pressure decreased significantly from 125 +/- 13 mm Hg to 87
+/- 8 mm Hg (mean +/- SD; 1 mm Hg = 133 Pa). Plasma renin enzyme activity was
undetectable in three animals. Plasma aldosterone decreased significantly. After 
1-4 months with low blood pressure, a normal urinary output, and a normal plasma 
creatinine, the five marmosets became sick and died within one month. At autopsy 
an immunological renal disease, characterized by the presence of immunoglobulin
and macrophage infiltration colocalized with renin, was found. Granulomatous
formations, probably due to Freund's adjuvant, could be seen in the lungs and in 
the kidney. No immunoglobulin was detectable in extrarenal vessels or in other
organs. These experiments demonstrate that, in this primate, a chronic blockade
of the renin-angiotensin system can be achieved by active immunization against
homologous renin, but this blockade is associated with the development of an
autoimmune disease localized in the kidney.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.84.12.4346 
PMCID: PMC305082
PMID: 3108891  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4521. Cardiovasc Res. 1987 May;21(5):369-76.

Radionuclide angiographic study of the influence of dietary lipid supplements on 
cardiac function in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Charnock JS(1), McLennan PL, McIntosh GH, Barnden LR, Buttfield IH.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran Hill, South
Australia.

Radionuclide angiography was used to examine the influence of dietary fat on
cardiac function in the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) under
barbiturate anaesthesia. Animals were fed for 6-8 months with a low fat (4.5%)
reference diet or the same diet supplemented (12%) with sunflower seed oil or
sheep fat. Although there was a tendency towards increased heart rate, left
ventricular ejection fraction, peak ejection rate, and peak filling rate in both 
fat supplemented groups, significant increases in heart rate (+50%), peak
ejection rate (+71%), and peak filling rate (+84%) were found with sheep fat
supplementation, whereas only the vegetable oil supplement produced a significant
improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction (+23%). There were no
differences in resting blood pressure, and the main consequence of dietary fat
supplementation was a major increase in apparent cardiac oxygen consumption
(+58%) with the sheet fat diet, as determined by the pressure-rate index.
Infusion of isoprenaline hydrochloride (0.2 microgram.kg-1.min-1) increased all
indices of cardiac function towards common maxima. There were no differences in
either the depth or duration of anaesthesia between dietary groups. It therefore 
is unlikely that this contributed to any of the observed dietary induced
differences in cardiac function. It is suggested that dietary saturated animal
fat increased cardiac work and oxygen consumption at rest to the extent that
functional reserve to respond to stress was significantly diminished. Feeding a
linoleic acid rich polyunsaturated vegetable oil supplement was, however,
accompanied by evidence of some improvement in left ventricular ejection
fraction.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/21.5.369 
PMID: 3652103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

