

4525. Arch Environ Health. 1987 Mar-Apr;42(2):96-9.

Elevated urinary excretion of beta-aminoisobutyric acid and exposure to inorganic
lead.

Farkas WR, Fischbein A, Solomon S, Buschman F, Borek E, Sharma OK.

beta-Aminoisobutyric acid (beta-AIB), a normal degradation product of thymine, a 
constituent of DNA and, to a lesser extent, of transfer RNA, is excreted in low
levels in human urine. We found that a group of iron workers occupationally
exposed to inorganic lead excreted high levels of urinary beta-AIB. Elevated
urinary excretion of beta-AIB was also observed in marmosets, Callithrix jacchus,
that received lead acetate in drinking water. Our results suggest that increased 
urinary excretion of beta-AIB could stem from damage to DNA on exposure to lead.

DOI: 10.1080/00039896.1987.9935803 
PMID: 3579372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4526. J Endocrinol. 1987 Mar;112(3):449-57.

Local production of progesterone by the corpus luteum of the marmoset monkey in
response to perfusion with chorionic gonadotrophin and melatonin in vivo.

Webley GE, Hearn JP.

The effect of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) and melatonin on the local
production of progesterone by the marmoset corpus luteum was investigated in vivo
using a perfusion cannula system. Progesterone secretion was measured in 10-min
fractions of buffer which had been perfused through the corpus luteum at a flow
rate of 70 microliters/min for a maximum of 3 h in anaesthetized animals. Two
corpora lutea were cannulated in each animal; one for perfusion of test material 
and the other for perfusion with buffer alone as a control. Perfusion with hCG
(25 i.u./ml), investigated as a positive control, produced a marked stimulation
of progesterone secretion which increased 10-20 min from the start of perfusion
and reached a peak after 30-60 min. A stimulation of progesterone was also
observed after perfusion with melatonin (860 pmol/l). The response was evident
within 10-30 min of the hormone reaching the corpus luteum and was similar in
magnitude to that observed for hCG. The ability of melatonin to stimulate
progesterone secretion supports previous in-vitro studies and suggests an ovarian
action for melatonin in the primate. The local perfusion system described may
have potential uses in studies of luteal function related to aspects of
infertility or regulation of fertility.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1120449 
PMID: 3559454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

