

4527. Arteriosclerosis. 1987 Mar-Apr;7(2):159-65.

Influence of dietary fats on blood coagulation and prostaglandin production in
the common marmoset.

McIntosh GH, McMurchie EJ, James M, Lawson CA, Bulman FH, Charnock JS.

Common marmosets were fed a standard marmoset diet (REF) or diets supplemented
with 12% (wt/wt) sunflower seed oil (SSO) or sheep fat (SF) for a period of 90
weeks. The values for coagulation indices, clotting time, and Russel viper venom 
time were consistent with decreased thrombotic tendency of platelets from animals
on the SSO diet relative to the low fat, REF diet animals, while an increased
tendency to thrombosis was observed with SF-fed marmosets. The SSO- and
SF-supplemented marmosets showed a significantly reduced thromboxane (TXB2)
generation from platelets aggregating to collagen (ASC) relative to the REF
group, while at 50 micrograms/ml ASC this difference was maintained only by the
SSO group. The SF diet-fed marmosets showed a reduced prostacyclin (measured as
6-keto-PGF1 alpha) generation from incubated aorta relative to the REF or SSO-fed
groups, which were not different from each other. A reduced proportion of
platelet phospholipid arachidonic acid (20:4, n-6) and increased alpha-tocopherol
concentration was consistent with the decreased aggregability and thromboxane
generation of platelets from SSO-fed marmosets relative to the REF and SF groups.
The SF diet-fed marmosets, on the other hand, showed minimal change in
arachidonic acid, alpha-tocopherol or platelet reactivity from the REF group.
These differing responses to dietary fats are discussed in relation to the
potential for the development of thrombosis and atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1161/01.atv.7.2.159 
PMID: 3107535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4528. Brain Res. 1987 Feb 10;403(1):158-61.

A new heterotopic callosal projection of primary visual cortex in the monkey,
Callithrix jacchus.

Spatz WB, Kunz B, Steffen H.

A callosal projection of area 17 upon the dorsomedial visual area in the marmoset
monkey was demonstrated by means of retrograde transport of neuronal tracers. The
projection was restricted to those regions representing the vertical meridian in 
the two areas. This finding, and the data of other authors, indicate that the
monkey area 17 projects transcallosally onto homotopic and several heterotopic
targets.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(87)90137-5 
PMID: 3103864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

