

453. Sci Rep. 2019 Aug 7;9(1):11459. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-48009-3.

Short Interruptions of Imposed Hyperopic Defocus Earlier in Treatment are More
Effective at Preventing Myopia Development.

Benavente-Perez A(1), Nour A(2), Troilo D(2).

Author information: 
(1)SUNY College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA. abenavente@sunyopt.edu.
(2)SUNY College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of interrupting negative
lens wear for short periods early or late during the development of lens-induced 
myopia in marmosets. Sixteen marmosets were reared with a -5D contact lens on
their right eye (plano on contralateral eye) for 8 weeks. Eight marmosets had
lenses removed for 30 mins twice/day during the first four weeks (early
interruption) and eight during the last four weeks (late interruption). Data were
compared to treated controls that wore lenses continuously (N = 12) and untreated
controls (N = 10). Interocular differences (IOD) in vitreous chamber (VC) depth
and central and peripheral mean spherical refractive error (MSE) were measured at
baseline and after four (T4) and eight (T8) weeks of treatment. Visual experience
during the interruptions was monitored by measuring refraction while marmosets
were seated at the center of a 1 m radius viewing cylinder. At T4 the eyes that
were interrupted early were not different from untreated controls (p = 0.10) and 
at T8 had grown less and were less myopic than those interrupted later (IOD
change from baseline, VC: +0.07 ± 0.04 mm vs +0.20 ± 0.03 mm, p < 0.05; MSE:
-1.59 ± 0.26D vs -2.63 ± 0.60D, p = 0.13). Eyes interrupted later were not
different from treated controls (MSE, p = 0.99; VC, p = 0.60) and grew at the
same rate as during the first four weeks of uninterrupted lens wear (T4 - T0:
3.67 ± 1.1 µm/day, T8 - T4: 3.56 ± 1.3 µm/day p = 0.96). Peripheral refraction
was a predictive factor for the amount of myopia developed only when the
interruption was not effective. In summary, interrupting hyperopic defocus with
short periods of myopic defocus before compensation occurs prevents axial myopia 
from developing. After myopia develops, interruption is less effective.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-48009-3 
PMCID: PMC6685965
PMID: 31391523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. J Neurophysiol. 2019 Oct 1;122(4):1502-1517. doi: 10.1152/jn.00389.2019. Epub
2019 Aug 7.

Behavioral training of marmosets and electrophysiological recording from the
cerebellum.

Sedaghat-Nejad E(1), Herzfeld DJ(1), Hage P(1), Karbasi K(1), Palin T(1), Wang
X(2), Shadmehr R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Computational Motor Control, Department of Biomedical
Engineering Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Laboratory for Auditory Neurophysiology Department of Biomedical Engineering
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a promising new model for study of
neurophysiological basis of behavior in primates. Like other primates, it relies 
on saccadic eye movements to monitor and explore its environment. Previous
reports have demonstrated some success in training marmosets to produce
goal-directed actions in the laboratory. However, the number of trials per
session has been relatively small, thus limiting the utility of marmosets as a
model for behavioral and neurophysiological studies. In this article, we report
the results of a series of new behavioral training and neurophysiological
protocols aimed at increasing the number of trials per session while recording
from the cerebellum. To improve the training efficacy, we designed a precisely
calibrated food regulation regime that motivates the subjects to perform saccade 
tasks, resulting in ~1,000 reward-driven trials on a daily basis. We then
developed a multichannel recording system that uses imaging to target a desired
region of the cerebellum, allowing for simultaneous isolation of multiple
Purkinje cells in the vermis. In this report, we describe 1) the design and
surgical implantation of a computer tomography (CT)-guided, subject-specific head
post, 2) the design of a CT- and MRI-guided alignment tool for trajectory
guidance of electrodes mounted on an absolute encoder microdrive, 3) development 
of a protocol for behavioral training of subjects, and 4) simultaneous recordings
from pairs of Purkinje cells during a saccade task.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Marmosets
present the opportunity to investigate genetically based neurological disease in 
primates, in particular, diseases that affect social behaviors, vocal
communication, and eye movements. All of these behaviors depend on the integrity 
of the cerebellum. We present training methods that better motivate the subjects,
allowing for improved performance, and we also present electrophysiological
techniques that precisely target the subject's cerebellum, allowing for
simultaneous isolation of multiple Purkinje cells.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00389.2019 
PMCID: PMC6843097
PMID: 31389752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

