

4531. J Med Primatol. 1987;16(1):1-11.

Failure of the prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue, cloprostenol, to induce
functional luteolysis in the olive baboon (Papio cynocephalus anubis).

Eley RM, Summers PM, Hearn JP.

The prostaglandin F2 alpha analogue, cloprostenol, which is an effective
luteolytic agent in the common marmoset, was administered intramuscularly to
olive baboons to determine if it possessed luteolytic properties in this species.
The results showed that functional luteolysis was not induced when cloprostenol
was administered during the mid- to late luteal phase or during early pregnancy.


PMID: 3585971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4532. Physiol Behav. 1987;39(4):495-9.

Effects of adrenalectomy upon proceptivity, receptivity and sexual attractiveness
in ovariectomized marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF.

The sexual behaviour of seven pairs of marmosets was observed during blocks of 30
minute tests before and after the ovariectomized partners were bilaterally
adrenalectomized. Adrenalectomized females were maintained by intramuscular
injections of deoxycorticosterone pivalate (DC) and hydrocortisone hemisuccinate 
(HC). Twice daily injections of HC were required to maintain the high levels of
plasma cortisol typical of marmosets and some other New World primates.
Adrenalectomy had no significant effects upon proceptivity, receptivity or female
sexual attractiveness. Increasing the replacement dose of DC had no effects upon 
sexual behaviour. Oestradiol treatment caused a marked increase in proceptivity
(tongue-flicking, staring and immobile displays) and in receptive tongue-flicking
behaviour. Males ejaculated more frequently during tests with oestradiol-treated 
partners. These results indicate that during "pair tests" adrenocortical sex
steroids are not essential for maintenance of sexual behaviour in female
marmosets and that activation of proceptivity by oestradiol 17 beta can occur in 
the absence of the adrenal glands.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(87)90379-9 
PMID: 3575496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

