

4532. Physiol Behav. 1987;39(4):495-9.

Effects of adrenalectomy upon proceptivity, receptivity and sexual attractiveness
in ovariectomized marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF.

The sexual behaviour of seven pairs of marmosets was observed during blocks of 30
minute tests before and after the ovariectomized partners were bilaterally
adrenalectomized. Adrenalectomized females were maintained by intramuscular
injections of deoxycorticosterone pivalate (DC) and hydrocortisone hemisuccinate 
(HC). Twice daily injections of HC were required to maintain the high levels of
plasma cortisol typical of marmosets and some other New World primates.
Adrenalectomy had no significant effects upon proceptivity, receptivity or female
sexual attractiveness. Increasing the replacement dose of DC had no effects upon 
sexual behaviour. Oestradiol treatment caused a marked increase in proceptivity
(tongue-flicking, staring and immobile displays) and in receptive tongue-flicking
behaviour. Males ejaculated more frequently during tests with oestradiol-treated 
partners. These results indicate that during "pair tests" adrenocortical sex
steroids are not essential for maintenance of sexual behaviour in female
marmosets and that activation of proceptivity by oestradiol 17 beta can occur in 
the absence of the adrenal glands.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(87)90379-9 
PMID: 3575496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4533. Clin Exp Hypertens A. 1987;9(8-9):1467-78.

Effects of chronic administration of a monoclonal antibody against human renin in
the marmoset.

Wood JM(1), Baum HP, Bews JP, Wachsmuth ED, Heusser C, Hofbauer KG.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Research Department, CIBA-GEIGY Limited Basle, Switzerland.

In this study, the hypotensive efficacy of R-3-36-16, a monoclonal antibody
against human kidney renin, was investigated during chronic administration to a
primate. R-3-36-16 was given by continuous intraperitoneal infusion with osmotic 
minipumps to normotensive marmosets fed a low-sodium diet in doses of 30 or 300
micrograms/kg/day for 14 days. The lower dose had no effect on blood pressure
(BP) or plasma renin activity (PRA). After two days of treatment, the higher dose
reduced PRA by 57% and lowered BP by 13 +/- 7 mm Hg. Although the hypotensive
response persisted after 14 days of treatment (-17 +/- 2 mm Hg), PRA had
recovered to pretreatment levels. BP gradually returned to pretreatment values in
the week after stopping the treatment. There was no evidence of an immune
reaction when an acute challenge dose of R-3-36-16 was given 7 weeks after
stopping the chronic treatment. Thus, R-3-36-16 appears to be an effective and
well-tolerated hypotensive agent during chronic administration to sodium-depleted
primates. The hypotensive response does not seem to be directly related to the
inhibition of renin in the plasma.

DOI: 10.3109/10641968709158996 
PMID: 3308202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

