

4533. Clin Exp Hypertens A. 1987;9(8-9):1467-78.

Effects of chronic administration of a monoclonal antibody against human renin in
the marmoset.

Wood JM(1), Baum HP, Bews JP, Wachsmuth ED, Heusser C, Hofbauer KG.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Research Department, CIBA-GEIGY Limited Basle, Switzerland.

In this study, the hypotensive efficacy of R-3-36-16, a monoclonal antibody
against human kidney renin, was investigated during chronic administration to a
primate. R-3-36-16 was given by continuous intraperitoneal infusion with osmotic 
minipumps to normotensive marmosets fed a low-sodium diet in doses of 30 or 300
micrograms/kg/day for 14 days. The lower dose had no effect on blood pressure
(BP) or plasma renin activity (PRA). After two days of treatment, the higher dose
reduced PRA by 57% and lowered BP by 13 +/- 7 mm Hg. Although the hypotensive
response persisted after 14 days of treatment (-17 +/- 2 mm Hg), PRA had
recovered to pretreatment levels. BP gradually returned to pretreatment values in
the week after stopping the treatment. There was no evidence of an immune
reaction when an acute challenge dose of R-3-36-16 was given 7 weeks after
stopping the chronic treatment. Thus, R-3-36-16 appears to be an effective and
well-tolerated hypotensive agent during chronic administration to sodium-depleted
primates. The hypotensive response does not seem to be directly related to the
inhibition of renin in the plasma.

DOI: 10.3109/10641968709158996 
PMID: 3308202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4534. Acta Anat (Basel). 1987;130(2):191-6.

Distribution of motoneurones innervating extraocular muscles in the brain of the 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Clarke RJ(1), Aléssio ML, Pessoa VF.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia e Farmacologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco,
Cidade Universitária, Recife, Brazil.

Extraocular muscle motoneurones were localised in the oculomotor nucleus (ON),
trochlear nucleus (TN) and abducens nucleus (AN) in the marmoset brain using the 
horseradish peroxidase (HRP) retrograde labelling technique. HRP pellets injected
into individual extraocular muscles revealed one or more groups of labelled
neurones occupying discrete loci within these nuclei. Relatively little overlap
of motoneurone pools was observed, except in the case of the inferior oblique and
superior rectus muscles. Injections of HRP into the medial rectus muscle revealed
three separate populations of labelled cells in the ipsilateral ON. Motoneurones 
innervating the inferior rectus muscle were mainly localised in the lateral
somatic cell column of the ipsilateral ON. A second smaller grouping was observed
in the medial longitudinal fasciculus. The inferior oblique muscle motoneurones
were localised in the ipsilateral medial somatic cell column intermingled with
motoneurones supplying the superior rectus muscle of the opposite eye. The
superior oblique muscle motoneurones occupied the entire TN and the lateral
rectus muscle motoneurones the AN. It was concluded that the organisation of
nuclei and subnuclei responsible for controlling the extraocular muscles in the
marmoset is broadly similar to that of other primates.

DOI: 10.1159/000146444 
PMID: 3142199  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

