

4535. Physiol Behav. 1987;41(6):577-83.

Post-partum changes in hormones and sexual behaviour in captive groups of
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF(1), Lunn SF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh,
U.K.

Video-tape recordings were made of behavioural interactions in eight family
groups of marmosets for 24-30 days after parturition. Blood samples were
collected from females for measurement of plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) and
progesterone. A pre-ovulatory LH surge occurred in six females between days 10-18
(mean +/- sem, 13.8 +/- 1.3 days). In these groups, sexual interactions increased
in frequency during the post-partum period and males began to initiate mounts on 
days 1, 2, 2, 6, 8 and 10 respectively. Mount and ejaculation frequencies
increased significantly during the peri-ovulatory phase as compared to the
pre-ovulatory phase and females were more proceptive and receptive than in the
early post-partum period. Peri-ovulatory increases in sexual activity were more
pronounced in 3 groups in which females had failed to conceive. In the remaining 
3 groups, sexual interactions tended to continue at higher levels into the
post-ovulatory phase when the females were pregnant. In captive marmoset groups, 
copulatory behaviour during the post-partum period is stimulated by changes in
non-behavioural cues from the female (increased sexual attractiveness to the
male) as well as by changes in her behaviour (proceptivity, receptivity) which
vary in importance between individuals.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(87)90314-3 
PMID: 3126512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4536. Acta Anat (Basel). 1987;130(3):247-50.

Morphological significance of the pectineal ligament of the eye.

Costa-Vila J(1), Barastegui C, Ruano-Gil D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Barcelona,
Spain.

We have studied the arrangement of the pectineal ligament or its equivalent, the 
uveal trabecula, in herbivores, carnivores, primates and humans. From our
investigations, the pectineal ligament, the uveal trabecula and the so-called
processes of the iris form a morphological unit that is made up of the tendinous 
fibres of the longitudinal portion of the ciliary muscle, that are inserted into 
the periphery of Descemet's membrane and send out ahead prolongations that extend
to the anterior face of the iris. The so-called processes of the iris cannot be
considered as independent structures since they represent the innermost fibres of
the trabecular or uveal meshwork; in some species these have a thicker
appearance, an arrangement that can occasionally be found in the human eye.

DOI: 10.1159/000146453 
PMID: 3124492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

