

4544. Lab Anim. 1987 Jan;21(1):60-7.

Local myotoxicity of ketamine hydrochloride in the marmoset.

Davy CW, Trennery PN, Edmunds JG, Altman JF, Eichler DA.

An investigation of raised plasma aspartate aminotransferase (AST) in marmosets
after intramuscular ketamine injection suggested a local myotoxicity. This was
confirmed by a range of histopathological findings from myofibrillar striation
loss to necrosis. In addition to the elevations in AST levels, creatine kinase
and the lactate dehydrogenase-5 isoenzyme levels were elevated. It was further
demonstrated that, although the physical properties of the injectable solution
(pH, osmolality) and to a lesser extent the injection procedure itself caused
slight changes in plasma enzyme levels, the ketamine was predominantly
responsible for the lesion. No hepatic interactions were seen. This effect should
be taken into consideration when this anaesthetic is used in the marmoset if the 
primary objectives of the experiment entail routine blood analyses.

DOI: 10.1258/002367787780740725 
PMID: 3104668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4545. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1987;175(3):399-410.

The ultrastructure of early implantation in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Smith CA, Moore HD, Hearn JP.

The ultrastructural morphology of the initial stages of implantation in the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) was studied in pregnant monkeys at known
time intervals after ovulation. The earliest samples, obtained 13 days after
ovulation, displayed both cytotrophoblast and syncytiotrophoblast. The
cytotrophoblast was restricted to the blastocoel, whilst syncytiotrophoblast
intruded to the endometrial basal lamina. At later stages, days 16 and 19 after
ovulation, both cytotrophoblast and syncytiotrophoblast had extended laterally
around the uterus, and the syncytiotrophoblast also extended deeper into the
maternal tissues. The mesoderm layer was first discernible at 19 days after
ovulation. At 23 days after ovulation the syncytiotrophoblast surrounded the
maternal blood vessels entirely. In this study syncytiotrophoblast was not
observed to breach the maternal blood vessels, even at 31 days after ovulation.
Early cytotrophoblast columns could be seen at 31 days after ovulation. The
endothelial cells lining the maternal blood vessels displayed hypertrophy from
the earliest stages (day 13) onwards, although a true decidual response was only 
observed in samples of 23 and 31 days after ovulation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00309853 
PMID: 3103485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

