

4545. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1987;175(3):399-410.

The ultrastructure of early implantation in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Smith CA, Moore HD, Hearn JP.

The ultrastructural morphology of the initial stages of implantation in the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) was studied in pregnant monkeys at known
time intervals after ovulation. The earliest samples, obtained 13 days after
ovulation, displayed both cytotrophoblast and syncytiotrophoblast. The
cytotrophoblast was restricted to the blastocoel, whilst syncytiotrophoblast
intruded to the endometrial basal lamina. At later stages, days 16 and 19 after
ovulation, both cytotrophoblast and syncytiotrophoblast had extended laterally
around the uterus, and the syncytiotrophoblast also extended deeper into the
maternal tissues. The mesoderm layer was first discernible at 19 days after
ovulation. At 23 days after ovulation the syncytiotrophoblast surrounded the
maternal blood vessels entirely. In this study syncytiotrophoblast was not
observed to breach the maternal blood vessels, even at 31 days after ovulation.
Early cytotrophoblast columns could be seen at 31 days after ovulation. The
endothelial cells lining the maternal blood vessels displayed hypertrophy from
the earliest stages (day 13) onwards, although a true decidual response was only 
observed in samples of 23 and 31 days after ovulation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00309853 
PMID: 3103485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4546. J Med Virol. 1987 Jan;21(1):67-74.

Protection of Junín virus-infected marmosets by passive administration of immune 
serum: association with late neurologic signs.

Avila MM, Samoilovich SR, Laguens RP, Merani MS, Weissenbacher MC.

Argentine hemorrhagic fever (Junín virus) is a human viral disease for which
immune therapy proves effective, though a late neurologic syndrome is
occasionally associated with the treatment. We attempted to determine in the
infected marmoset Callithrix jacchus whether immune therapy leads to protection
and/or CNS damage. Fifteen C jacchus were inoculated with 10(3) tissue culture
infectious dose 50% (TCID50) of the XJ strain of Junín virus. On day 6 post
infection (pi), 12 primates were treated with homologous immune serum. Animals
were observed daily; and hematologic, serologic, virologic, and histologic
studies were performed. All primates, both treated and controls, presented
leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, and weight loss from day 14 pi onward. The 
three control animals died on days 22, 25, and 32 pi. Among the 12 treated
monkeys, 3 died on days 21, 22, and 29. Hematologic values returned to normal
during the second month; initial weight was recovered by the fourth month. Three 
out of the nine survivors showed neurologic alterations of various degrees, with 
hind-limb paralysis in the most severe case. Among treated monkeys, viremia and
viral titers in the lungs, kidney, and lymph nodes were lower than in controls.
Neutralizing antibodies were present in high titers in all treated marmosets,
except in the one presenting paralysis in which values were minimal and viral
persistence was detected in CNS. In conclusion, immune serum treatment of Junín
virus-infected marmosets was found to reduce mortality from 100% to 25%. Viremia 
and viral titers in organs were lowered, and late neurologic signs appeared in
30% of treated survivors.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890210109 
PMID: 3025358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

