

4551. Brain Res. 1986 Dec;395(2):157-68.

Postnatal development of quantitative morphological parameters in the lateral
geniculate nucleus of the marmoset monkey.

Fritschy JM, Garey LJ.

Quantitative morphological parameters were studied in the lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) during development,
using a series of 14 animals, at ages from birth to adulthood. They include the
volume of the LGN and of its layers and interlaminar zones, their neuronal
content expressed as numerical density and total number, and the density and
number of glial cells in the nucleus as a whole. The volume of the LGN increases 
rapidly after birth, reaches a maximum at 6 months of age, and then decreases to 
its adult value of about 11 mm3. Neuronal density follows a reciprocal curve,
reaching an adult value of about 41,000 neurons/mm3, so that the total number of 
about 440,000 neurons per LGN remains constant throughout life although large
interindividual variations, especially in juveniles, do not allow unequivocal
statements about total neuronal number to be made. Parvocellular layers occupy
most of the geniculate volume, and contain about 74% of its neurons in the adult.
We found no difference in their development pattern compared with the
magnocellular component. The 'superficial' layers and interlaminar zones contain 
more than 15% of the geniculate neurons, and they could therefore play an
important functional role in the primary visual pathway of New World primates.
The number of glial cells nearly triples during the first 6 weeks and stabilizes 
around 800,000 in the LGN of one hemisphere. As the same brains were used as in a
previous study on the area 17 of the marmoset (Dev. Brain Res., 29 (1986)
173-188) direct comparisons of the development of cortex and thalamus can be
made. Their development is parallel in time, and in both cases the adult values
for volume, neuronal density and glial numbers are reached several months
postnatally.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(86)80195-0 
PMID: 3779436  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4552. J Urol. 1986 Dec;136(6):1348-50.

A putative non-cholinergic mechanism in urinary bladders of New but not Old World
primates.

Craggs MD, Rushton DN, Stephenson JD.

The effects of atropine on bladder contractions evoked by sacral ventral root
stimulation were investigated in two species of New World monkey (marmoset and
cebus) and in paraplegic man. The findings were then compared to those previously
obtained for the cat and two species of Old World monkey (rhesus and baboon). The
results show the marmoset and cebus to represent a transitional stage between the
complete sensitivity of the bladders of Old World monkeys to atropine and the
relative insensitivity of the cat bladder. The bladder response is shown to
comprise two components, an atropine sensitive component which is slow in onset
and an atropine resistant component which is easily fatigued. The experiments in 
paraplegic people confirm that the parasympathetic innervation of the bladder of 
man is, like that of Old World monkeys, exclusively cholinergic. A behavioural
interpretation is tentatively offered to explain the two types of innervation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)45335-3 
PMID: 3773120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

