

4552. J Urol. 1986 Dec;136(6):1348-50.

A putative non-cholinergic mechanism in urinary bladders of New but not Old World
primates.

Craggs MD, Rushton DN, Stephenson JD.

The effects of atropine on bladder contractions evoked by sacral ventral root
stimulation were investigated in two species of New World monkey (marmoset and
cebus) and in paraplegic man. The findings were then compared to those previously
obtained for the cat and two species of Old World monkey (rhesus and baboon). The
results show the marmoset and cebus to represent a transitional stage between the
complete sensitivity of the bladders of Old World monkeys to atropine and the
relative insensitivity of the cat bladder. The bladder response is shown to
comprise two components, an atropine sensitive component which is slow in onset
and an atropine resistant component which is easily fatigued. The experiments in 
paraplegic people confirm that the parasympathetic innervation of the bladder of 
man is, like that of Old World monkeys, exclusively cholinergic. A behavioural
interpretation is tentatively offered to explain the two types of innervation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)45335-3 
PMID: 3773120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4553. Prostaglandins Leukot Med. 1986 Dec;25(2-3):209-21.

Effects of variable linoleate intake on aortic PGI2-like activity and fatty acid 
composition: difference between rat and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Abeywardena MY, McLennan PL, Charnock JS.

Two animal species, the laboratory rat and a non-human primate (the common
marmoset) were compared with respect to the influence of dietary lipid
supplementation on both fatty acid composition and prostanoid synthetic capacity 
of aorta. Standard chow (REF. diet) was supplemented (12% w/w) with either sheep 
fat (SF) or sunflower seed oil (SSO). Differences were apparent in the aortic
phospholipid fatty acids from both animal models, as a result of the diet,
although the type and the extent of changes displayed a considerable species
variation. For example, after the SSO diet, the proportion of linoleic acid in
rat aorta displayed only a modest increase whilst in marmosets it was doubled. No
change was apparent in the proportion of arachidonic acid in rats, whereas the
marmosets showed a reduction (P less than 0.05) with both lipid supplements. Rats
fed the SF diet showed a considerable increase in aortic PGI2-like activity
compared to REF. And SSO supplemented groups. In contrast, no dietary induced
changes were observed in the aorta from marmosets despite compositional changes. 
The results indicate no direct association between the synthesis of PGI2-like
activity and membrane lipids and demonstrate the need for careful selection of
the proper animal model, particularly in nutritionally orientated experiments.

DOI: 10.1016/0262-1746(86)90067-3 
PMID: 3103139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

