

4553. Prostaglandins Leukot Med. 1986 Dec;25(2-3):209-21.

Effects of variable linoleate intake on aortic PGI2-like activity and fatty acid 
composition: difference between rat and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Abeywardena MY, McLennan PL, Charnock JS.

Two animal species, the laboratory rat and a non-human primate (the common
marmoset) were compared with respect to the influence of dietary lipid
supplementation on both fatty acid composition and prostanoid synthetic capacity 
of aorta. Standard chow (REF. diet) was supplemented (12% w/w) with either sheep 
fat (SF) or sunflower seed oil (SSO). Differences were apparent in the aortic
phospholipid fatty acids from both animal models, as a result of the diet,
although the type and the extent of changes displayed a considerable species
variation. For example, after the SSO diet, the proportion of linoleic acid in
rat aorta displayed only a modest increase whilst in marmosets it was doubled. No
change was apparent in the proportion of arachidonic acid in rats, whereas the
marmosets showed a reduction (P less than 0.05) with both lipid supplements. Rats
fed the SF diet showed a considerable increase in aortic PGI2-like activity
compared to REF. And SSO supplemented groups. In contrast, no dietary induced
changes were observed in the aorta from marmosets despite compositional changes. 
The results indicate no direct association between the synthesis of PGI2-like
activity and membrane lipids and demonstrate the need for careful selection of
the proper animal model, particularly in nutritionally orientated experiments.

DOI: 10.1016/0262-1746(86)90067-3 
PMID: 3103139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4554. Brain Res. 1986 Nov 5;397(1):61-72.

Preferential blood flow to brainstem during generalized seizures in the newborn
marmoset monkey.

Fujikawa DG, Dwyer BE, Wasterlain CG.

The effect of generalized seizures on local cerebral blood flow was studied
autoradiographically in 21 immature marmoset monkeys, using either [123I]- or
[131I]isopropyliodoamphetamine. Generalized convulsions were induced in
ketamine-anesthetized and awake monkeys with bicuculline and continued for 4-59
min. During convulsions in marmosets less than 3 weeks of age, there was a
striking rearrangement of blood flow in favor of the brainstem pontomedullary
region. The ratios of blood flow in pons-medulla to blood flow in cerebral
cortex, putamen, ventroposterior thalamic nuclei, lateral geniculate nuclei,
cerebellum and hemispheric white matter increased 1 1/2 to 2 times compared to
controls. In seizure animals 4-8 weeks of age, the redistribution of blood flow
to brainstem did not occur. Although metabolic acidosis developed after 30 min of
bicuculline-induced seizures, mean arterial blood pressure, temperature, arterial
pO2 and pCO2 did not differ significantly from controls, indicating that
hypoxemia, hypercapnia and hypotension cannot explain the altered cerebral blood 
flow pattern. The redistribution phenomenon could be explained by more pronounced
vasodilatation in brainstem than many other brain regions during generalized
seizures in newborn monkeys. Lack of significant vasodilatation in forebrain
structures such as cerebral cortex could contribute to neuronal damage by
limiting substrate supply at a time of increased metabolic activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(86)91369-7 
PMID: 3801866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

