

4554. Brain Res. 1986 Nov 5;397(1):61-72.

Preferential blood flow to brainstem during generalized seizures in the newborn
marmoset monkey.

Fujikawa DG, Dwyer BE, Wasterlain CG.

The effect of generalized seizures on local cerebral blood flow was studied
autoradiographically in 21 immature marmoset monkeys, using either [123I]- or
[131I]isopropyliodoamphetamine. Generalized convulsions were induced in
ketamine-anesthetized and awake monkeys with bicuculline and continued for 4-59
min. During convulsions in marmosets less than 3 weeks of age, there was a
striking rearrangement of blood flow in favor of the brainstem pontomedullary
region. The ratios of blood flow in pons-medulla to blood flow in cerebral
cortex, putamen, ventroposterior thalamic nuclei, lateral geniculate nuclei,
cerebellum and hemispheric white matter increased 1 1/2 to 2 times compared to
controls. In seizure animals 4-8 weeks of age, the redistribution of blood flow
to brainstem did not occur. Although metabolic acidosis developed after 30 min of
bicuculline-induced seizures, mean arterial blood pressure, temperature, arterial
pO2 and pCO2 did not differ significantly from controls, indicating that
hypoxemia, hypercapnia and hypotension cannot explain the altered cerebral blood 
flow pattern. The redistribution phenomenon could be explained by more pronounced
vasodilatation in brainstem than many other brain regions during generalized
seizures in newborn monkeys. Lack of significant vasodilatation in forebrain
structures such as cerebral cortex could contribute to neuronal damage by
limiting substrate supply at a time of increased metabolic activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(86)91369-7 
PMID: 3801866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4555. Aust Vet J. 1986 Nov;63(11):385-6.

Acute intoxication of marmosets and rats fed high concentrations of the dietary
antioxidant "ethoxyquin 66".

McIntosh GH, Charnock JS, Phillips PH, Baxter GJ.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-0813.1986.tb02914.x 
PMID: 3103597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

