

4555. Aust Vet J. 1986 Nov;63(11):385-6.

Acute intoxication of marmosets and rats fed high concentrations of the dietary
antioxidant "ethoxyquin 66".

McIntosh GH, Charnock JS, Phillips PH, Baxter GJ.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-0813.1986.tb02914.x 
PMID: 3103597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4556. J Toxicol Sci. 1986 Nov;11(4):293-301.

Short-term toxicity study of 4-dimethylaminoazobenzene in marmosets.

Matsumoto K, Usui A, Ochiai T, Sekita K, Kawasaki Y, Naito K, Nakaji Y, Furuya T,
Tobe M.

The marmoset, a small non-human primate, has rarely been used in toxicological
studies. A short-term toxicity study was performed on common marmosets (BW = 330 
+/- 32 g). Fifteen male marmosets received oral administration of DAB at a dose
level of 56 mg/kg/day and 4 control animals received corn oil alone for a period 
of 15 days. Hematological, biochemical, histopathological and bone marrow
examinations were carried out on the 5th, 10th and 15th day of treatment. Body
weight decreased continuously and two animals died on day 10. Decreases in RBC,
Hb and Ht and increases in MCV and WBC were observed. Uric acid and glucose were 
increased and AlP and LAP were decreased. Aldolase, GOT and GPT were increased by
day 10, and thereafter recovery of aldolase to the control level and decreases of
GOT and GPT were observed. Relative organ weights of the liver, kidney, spleen
and adrenal were increased. Histologically, C-cell hyperplasia of the thyroid and
slight changes of the liver were noted. Marrow total cell counts were not
changed, but the G/E ratio was reduced. Thus, macrocytic anemia, an increase of
marrow erythroblasts due to anemia and changes of biochemical parameters
indicating liver injury were observed in marmosets; these findings were similar
to those in rats in the previous experiments.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.11.293 
PMID: 3102751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

