

4556. J Toxicol Sci. 1986 Nov;11(4):293-301.

Short-term toxicity study of 4-dimethylaminoazobenzene in marmosets.

Matsumoto K, Usui A, Ochiai T, Sekita K, Kawasaki Y, Naito K, Nakaji Y, Furuya T,
Tobe M.

The marmoset, a small non-human primate, has rarely been used in toxicological
studies. A short-term toxicity study was performed on common marmosets (BW = 330 
+/- 32 g). Fifteen male marmosets received oral administration of DAB at a dose
level of 56 mg/kg/day and 4 control animals received corn oil alone for a period 
of 15 days. Hematological, biochemical, histopathological and bone marrow
examinations were carried out on the 5th, 10th and 15th day of treatment. Body
weight decreased continuously and two animals died on day 10. Decreases in RBC,
Hb and Ht and increases in MCV and WBC were observed. Uric acid and glucose were 
increased and AlP and LAP were decreased. Aldolase, GOT and GPT were increased by
day 10, and thereafter recovery of aldolase to the control level and decreases of
GOT and GPT were observed. Relative organ weights of the liver, kidney, spleen
and adrenal were increased. Histologically, C-cell hyperplasia of the thyroid and
slight changes of the liver were noted. Marrow total cell counts were not
changed, but the G/E ratio was reduced. Thus, macrocytic anemia, an increase of
marrow erythroblasts due to anemia and changes of biochemical parameters
indicating liver injury were observed in marmosets; these findings were similar
to those in rats in the previous experiments.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.11.293 
PMID: 3102751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4557. J Med Virol. 1986 Nov;20(3):261-7.

Therapeutic effect of the antiviral agent ribavirin in Junín virus infection of
primates.

Weissenbacher MC, Calello MA, Merani MS, McCormick JB, Rodriguez M.

In order to assess the effect of the antiviral Ribavirin on the course of Junín
virus infection in Callithrix jacchus, seven inoculated monkeys were treated with
15 mg of the drug, twice a day, starting 6 days after infection when all animals 
were viremic. The three untreated controls showed typical signs of Junín virus
infection at 14 days pi and their mean time of death was 18 days. In contrast, no
signs of illness were detected in Ribavirin-treated animals until 24 days pi,
when marmosets showed signs of neurological involvement: 5 of these animals died 
(mean day of death: 36) but the two remaining treated monkeys improved and
survived infection without sequelae. The comparison of survival rates (0% vs 28%)
and the delay of the mean day of death observed indicates that the Ribavirin
treatment used has therapeutic effect on Junín virus infection in vivo.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890200308 
PMID: 3023541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

