

4557. J Med Virol. 1986 Nov;20(3):261-7.

Therapeutic effect of the antiviral agent ribavirin in Junín virus infection of
primates.

Weissenbacher MC, Calello MA, Merani MS, McCormick JB, Rodriguez M.

In order to assess the effect of the antiviral Ribavirin on the course of Junín
virus infection in Callithrix jacchus, seven inoculated monkeys were treated with
15 mg of the drug, twice a day, starting 6 days after infection when all animals 
were viremic. The three untreated controls showed typical signs of Junín virus
infection at 14 days pi and their mean time of death was 18 days. In contrast, no
signs of illness were detected in Ribavirin-treated animals until 24 days pi,
when marmosets showed signs of neurological involvement: 5 of these animals died 
(mean day of death: 36) but the two remaining treated monkeys improved and
survived infection without sequelae. The comparison of survival rates (0% vs 28%)
and the delay of the mean day of death observed indicates that the Ribavirin
treatment used has therapeutic effect on Junín virus infection in vivo.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890200308 
PMID: 3023541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4558. J Neurochem. 1986 Nov;47(5):1548-51.

Lack of change in basal ganglia neuropeptide content following subacute
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment of the common marmoset.

Jenner P, Taquet H, Mauborgne A, Benoliel JT, Cesselin F, Rose S, Javoy-Agid F,
Agid Y, Marsden CD.

Treatment of common marmosets with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP; 1-4 mg/kg for up to 4 days) caused a profound parkinsonian state. Ten days
from the start of MPTP treatment, all animals showed marked motor impairment,
consisting of bradykinesia and akinesia, limb rigidity, postural abnormalities,
loss of vocalisation and blink reflex, and, on occasions, postural tremor.
Measurement of caudate-putamen monoamine content at this time showed a profound
loss in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine, homovanillic acid, and
3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations. Measurement of neuropeptide
concentrations in the caudate-putamen, internal and external segments of the
globus pallidus, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, frontal cortex, and
hippocampus showed met-enkephalin, leu-enkephalin, and cholecystokinin (CCK-8)
concentrations to be unaffected by MPTP treatment. There was a small decrease in 
the substance P content of frontal cortex, but otherwise the content of this
neuropeptide was unaltered. Parkinsonism in the marmoset, induced by MPTP
treatment 10 days earlier, does not alter neuropeptide concentrations in the
manner observed in Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.1986.tb00793.x 
PMID: 2428937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

