

4558. J Neurochem. 1986 Nov;47(5):1548-51.

Lack of change in basal ganglia neuropeptide content following subacute
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment of the common marmoset.

Jenner P, Taquet H, Mauborgne A, Benoliel JT, Cesselin F, Rose S, Javoy-Agid F,
Agid Y, Marsden CD.

Treatment of common marmosets with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP; 1-4 mg/kg for up to 4 days) caused a profound parkinsonian state. Ten days
from the start of MPTP treatment, all animals showed marked motor impairment,
consisting of bradykinesia and akinesia, limb rigidity, postural abnormalities,
loss of vocalisation and blink reflex, and, on occasions, postural tremor.
Measurement of caudate-putamen monoamine content at this time showed a profound
loss in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine, homovanillic acid, and
3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid concentrations. Measurement of neuropeptide
concentrations in the caudate-putamen, internal and external segments of the
globus pallidus, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, frontal cortex, and
hippocampus showed met-enkephalin, leu-enkephalin, and cholecystokinin (CCK-8)
concentrations to be unaffected by MPTP treatment. There was a small decrease in 
the substance P content of frontal cortex, but otherwise the content of this
neuropeptide was unaltered. Parkinsonism in the marmoset, induced by MPTP
treatment 10 days earlier, does not alter neuropeptide concentrations in the
manner observed in Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.1986.tb00793.x 
PMID: 2428937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4559. J Comp Neurol. 1986 Oct 8;252(2):175-85.

Frequency representation in auditory cortex of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus jacchus).

Aitkin LM, Merzenich MM, Irvine DR, Clarey JC, Nelson JE.

The location and characteristics of the primary auditory cortex of the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus jacchus, were determined in five anesthetized male
adult animals by mapping the responses of cortical units and unit clusters to
pure tone stimuli presented to the contralateral ear. The primary auditory cortex
lies largely ventral to the lateral sulcus, the only major fissure on the lateral
cortex of this smooth-brained primate, but in some animals it may extend
significantly down the ventral bank of this sulcus. Responses are distributed
such that low best frequencies are found rostroventrally whereas high best
frequencies occur caudally. The disposition of frequency-band contours is
fan-shaped, with contours separating low-frequency octaves nearly parallel to the
lateral sulcus and high-frequency (greater than 8 kHz) contours perpendicular to 
that sulcus. Best frequencies range from 0.6 to 30 kHz across the primary field, 
but there is a disproportionate representation of the three octaves between 2 and
16 kHz. The most sensitive thresholds (as low as -2 dB SPL) are found between 7
and 9 kHz. The primary auditory cortex is similar in cytoarchitecture to that
reported for the cat, showing a blurring of lamination in the middle layers
(II-IV) and a preponderance of small cells in these merged layers, giving a
highly granular appearance. The accessibility of the cochlear representation on
the gyral surface makes the marmoset an attractive animal for studies of primate 
auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902520204 
PMID: 3782506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

