

4560. Lab Anim. 1986 Oct;20(4):329-34.

A backpack system for long-term osmotic minipump infusions into unrestrained
marmoset monkeys.

Ruiz de Elvira MC, Abbott DH.

A backpack system is described whereby osmotic minipumps are used to infuse
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) subcutaneously in a pulsatile manner into 
infertile socially subordinate female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus
jacchus). This procedure enables long-term infusion of GnRH without the necessity
of repeated subcutaneous implantation of pumps and GnRH reservoirs. The backpack 
and cannulae system is inexpensive and can be constructed from commonly available
materials. The GnRH treatment successfully overcame the suppression of pituitary 
luteinizing hormone secretion imposed by the low social status of female marmoset
monkeys.

DOI: 10.1258/002367786780808811 
PMID: 3095582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4561. Brain Res. 1986 Oct;394(2):173-88.

Quantitative changes in morphological parameters in the developing visual cortex 
of the marmoset monkey.

Fritschy JM, Garey LJ.

Several quantitative morphological parameters were measured during postnatal
development in area 17 of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). In a series
of 14 animals, at ages from birth to adulthood, we studied changes in the
thickness, surface area and volume of area 17, as well as the neuronal and glial 
numerical densities, and total numbers. We found evidence for a rapid increase in
thickness, area and volume, culminating between 6 weeks and 6 months postnatally,
and then decreasing. The adult values are close to those observed in
one-month-old animals. The overshoot in thickness and volume is greatest in
layers II, III, IVa and IVc. The neuronal density shows a trend which is opposite
to that of volume, and therefore the total number of neurons is constant
postnatally, ca. 38 million neurons in area 17 of one hemisphere. The number of
glial cells approximately doubles during the first postnatal month and remains
stable afterwards, so that in the adult, there is one glial cell for two neurons.
Morphological development of area 17 in this New World monkey is similar to that 
reported in Old World monkeys, as are the adult values for neuronal and glial
densities.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-3806(86)90093-3 
PMID: 3094833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

