

4561. Brain Res. 1986 Oct;394(2):173-88.

Quantitative changes in morphological parameters in the developing visual cortex 
of the marmoset monkey.

Fritschy JM, Garey LJ.

Several quantitative morphological parameters were measured during postnatal
development in area 17 of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). In a series
of 14 animals, at ages from birth to adulthood, we studied changes in the
thickness, surface area and volume of area 17, as well as the neuronal and glial 
numerical densities, and total numbers. We found evidence for a rapid increase in
thickness, area and volume, culminating between 6 weeks and 6 months postnatally,
and then decreasing. The adult values are close to those observed in
one-month-old animals. The overshoot in thickness and volume is greatest in
layers II, III, IVa and IVc. The neuronal density shows a trend which is opposite
to that of volume, and therefore the total number of neurons is constant
postnatally, ca. 38 million neurons in area 17 of one hemisphere. The number of
glial cells approximately doubles during the first postnatal month and remains
stable afterwards, so that in the adult, there is one glial cell for two neurons.
Morphological development of area 17 in this New World monkey is similar to that 
reported in Old World monkeys, as are the adult values for neuronal and glial
densities.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-3806(86)90093-3 
PMID: 3094833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4562. Dev Psychobiol. 1986 Sep;19(5):399-411.

Effects on the behavior of infant common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) of
separation from caregivers and of drug-induced reduction in caregiver
responsiveness.

Chalmers NR, Locke-Haydon J.

The effects of separating 4-week-old twin marmosets for 8 days from their
families are compared with the effects of leaving 4-week-old infants with their
families, but reducing the responsiveness of their caregivers for 8 days by
administration of the tranquilizer fluphenazine decanoate. Both treatments reduce
infant mobility, abolish play, and increase the time that infants spend with each
other. During the period after the termination of the treatment, both treatment
groups continue to play and move less than controls, and try to climb onto the
mothers more frequently. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that
the principal factor precipitating disturbed behaviors in infant monkeys
subjected to long-term separation is disruption of the infant-caregiver
relationship rather than the separation itself. Some post-treatment differences
occur between separated and tranquilized groups. Notably, reunion after
separation appears to involve a marked readjustment of the behavior of all family
members to the return of the infants, whereas withdrawal of the tranquilizer does
not.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.420190502 
PMID: 3758486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

