

4562. Dev Psychobiol. 1986 Sep;19(5):399-411.

Effects on the behavior of infant common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) of
separation from caregivers and of drug-induced reduction in caregiver
responsiveness.

Chalmers NR, Locke-Haydon J.

The effects of separating 4-week-old twin marmosets for 8 days from their
families are compared with the effects of leaving 4-week-old infants with their
families, but reducing the responsiveness of their caregivers for 8 days by
administration of the tranquilizer fluphenazine decanoate. Both treatments reduce
infant mobility, abolish play, and increase the time that infants spend with each
other. During the period after the termination of the treatment, both treatment
groups continue to play and move less than controls, and try to climb onto the
mothers more frequently. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that
the principal factor precipitating disturbed behaviors in infant monkeys
subjected to long-term separation is disruption of the infant-caregiver
relationship rather than the separation itself. Some post-treatment differences
occur between separated and tranquilized groups. Notably, reunion after
separation appears to involve a marked readjustment of the behavior of all family
members to the return of the infants, whereas withdrawal of the tranquilizer does
not.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.420190502 
PMID: 3758486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4563. J Neurosci Methods. 1986 Sep;17(4):255-9.

Chromation at low temperatures improves impregnation of neurons in Golgi-aldehyde
methods.

Berbel PJ.

Erratum in
    J Neurosci Methods 1987 Apr;19(4):347.

A modification of the Golgi-aldehyde methods is proposed in which the tissue is
maintained at 4 degrees C during chromation. This prevents precipitation of the
solution, and significantly improves the quality of the Golgi stain, probably
owing to better fixation of the tissue.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-0270(86)90125-1 
PMID: 3537538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

