

4564. J Exp Med. 1986 Sep 1;164(3):926-31.

Herpesvirus saimiri strain 11 immortalizes a restricted marmoset T8 lymphocyte
subpopulation in vitro.

Kiyotaki M, Desrosiers RC, Letvin NL.

Herpesvirus saimiri induces a fatal lymphoproliferative syndrome in a variety of 
New World primate species. We now show that cell lines derived from PBL of the
common marmoset by in vitro-immortalization with H. saimiri strain 11 represent a
remarkably restricted lymphocyte population. These cell lines have NK cell
function, phenotypically express both suppressor/cytotoxic (T8) and NK cell
(NKH1)-associated antigens, and express a T cell receptor. This subpopulation of 
lymphocytes is a very minor population of cells in the peripheral blood of common
marmosets (less than or equal to 3%). The specificity in the interaction between 
H. saimiri strain 11 and a subpopulation of common marmoset lymphocytes
represents an example of a restricted viral lymphotropism and may have important 
implications for the disease induced by this virus in New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.164.3.926 
PMCID: PMC2188400
PMID: 3018122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4565. Xenobiotica. 1986 Jul;16(7):609-14.

Mercapturic acid formation in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Hall BE, James SP.

Benzylmercapturic acid is a major metabolite of [methylene-14C]benzyl chloride in
the marmoset, as in the rat. The excretion of the minor metabolites
benzylmercapturic acid sulphoxide and benzylcysteine accounted for a greater
proportion of the dose than in the rat. Excretion of hippuric acid as a
metabolite of benzyl chloride was variable in the marmoset. Acetylation of
S-benzyl- and S-pentyl-L-cysteine to the corresponding mercapturic acids was
extensive in the marmoset. Trace amounts of the sulphoxides of these acids were
also excreted.

DOI: 10.3109/00498258609043550 
PMID: 3751115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

