

4565. Xenobiotica. 1986 Jul;16(7):609-14.

Mercapturic acid formation in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Hall BE, James SP.

Benzylmercapturic acid is a major metabolite of [methylene-14C]benzyl chloride in
the marmoset, as in the rat. The excretion of the minor metabolites
benzylmercapturic acid sulphoxide and benzylcysteine accounted for a greater
proportion of the dose than in the rat. Excretion of hippuric acid as a
metabolite of benzyl chloride was variable in the marmoset. Acetylation of
S-benzyl- and S-pentyl-L-cysteine to the corresponding mercapturic acids was
extensive in the marmoset. Trace amounts of the sulphoxides of these acids were
also excreted.

DOI: 10.3109/00498258609043550 
PMID: 3751115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4566. Calcif Tissue Int. 1986 Jul;39(1):22-7.

Bone in the marmoset: a resemblance to vitamin D-dependent rickets, type II.

Yamaguchi A, Kohno Y, Yamazaki T, Takahashi N, Shinki T, Horiuchi N, Suda T,
Koizumi H, Tanioka Y, Yoshiki S.

The common marmoset, a New World monkey, requires a large amount of vitamin D3 to
maintain its normal growth. This monkey is reported to have an end-organ
resistance to 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1 alpha,25(OH)2D3). In this study, 
the bone morphology of marmosets fed a high vitamin D3 diet (intake of vitamin
D3, 110 IU/day/100 g of body weight) was compared by X-ray and histological
examinations with that of rhesus monkeys (Old World monkey) fed a normal diet
(intake of vitamin D3, 5 IU/day/100 g of body weight). Three of 20 marmosets were
found by X-ray examination to have osteomalacic changes in their bones despite
the high daily intake of vitamin D3, whereas none of the 5 rhesus monkeys showed 
any signs of osteomalacia. Osteomalacic marmosets had distinct increases in
osteoid surface, relative osteoid volume, and active osteoclastic bone
resorption, whereas non-osteomalacic marmosets had no increase in osteoid tissues
in their bones. None of the marmosets, either osteomalacic or non-osteomalacic,
was hypercalcemic despite the extremely high circulating levels of 1
alpha,25(OH)2D3. However, the serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25OHD3) and
24R,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (24R,25(OH)2D3) levels were significantly lower in the
osteomalacic than in the non-osteomalacic marmosets. These results suggest that
the marmoset is likely to exhibit osteomalacic bone changes despite the high
daily intake of vitamin D3. These changes resemble those in vitamin D-dependent
rickets, type II.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02555736 
PMID: 3089562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

