

4566. Calcif Tissue Int. 1986 Jul;39(1):22-7.

Bone in the marmoset: a resemblance to vitamin D-dependent rickets, type II.

Yamaguchi A, Kohno Y, Yamazaki T, Takahashi N, Shinki T, Horiuchi N, Suda T,
Koizumi H, Tanioka Y, Yoshiki S.

The common marmoset, a New World monkey, requires a large amount of vitamin D3 to
maintain its normal growth. This monkey is reported to have an end-organ
resistance to 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1 alpha,25(OH)2D3). In this study, 
the bone morphology of marmosets fed a high vitamin D3 diet (intake of vitamin
D3, 110 IU/day/100 g of body weight) was compared by X-ray and histological
examinations with that of rhesus monkeys (Old World monkey) fed a normal diet
(intake of vitamin D3, 5 IU/day/100 g of body weight). Three of 20 marmosets were
found by X-ray examination to have osteomalacic changes in their bones despite
the high daily intake of vitamin D3, whereas none of the 5 rhesus monkeys showed 
any signs of osteomalacia. Osteomalacic marmosets had distinct increases in
osteoid surface, relative osteoid volume, and active osteoclastic bone
resorption, whereas non-osteomalacic marmosets had no increase in osteoid tissues
in their bones. None of the marmosets, either osteomalacic or non-osteomalacic,
was hypercalcemic despite the extremely high circulating levels of 1
alpha,25(OH)2D3. However, the serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25OHD3) and
24R,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (24R,25(OH)2D3) levels were significantly lower in the
osteomalacic than in the non-osteomalacic marmosets. These results suggest that
the marmoset is likely to exhibit osteomalacic bone changes despite the high
daily intake of vitamin D3. These changes resemble those in vitamin D-dependent
rickets, type II.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02555736 
PMID: 3089562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4567. Hypertension. 1986 Jul;8(7):600-5.

Monoclonal antibodies against human renin. Blood pressure effects in the
marmoset.

Wood JM, Heusser C, Gulati N, Forgiarini P, Hofbauer KG.

The in vivo effects of two anti-human renin monoclonal antibodies with a high
binding affinity for primate renin were studied in conscious, volume-depleted
marmosets. These antibodies, R-3-17-7 and R-3-36-16, both have high binding
activity for renin, but only R-3-36-16 inhibits the enzymatic activity of renin
in vitro. In vivo, R-3-17-7 did not affect blood pressure after intravenous
injection of doses up to 100 micrograms/kg, although plasma renin activity was
partially reduced. In contrast, R-3-36-16 induced a reduction in blood pressure
and an inhibition of plasma renin activity at a threshold dose of 3
micrograms/kg. The maximum fall in blood pressure and complete inhibition of
plasma renin activity were observed after R-3-36-16, 10 micrograms/kg; these
effects persisted for up to 2 hours. Pretreatment with a converting enzyme
inhibitor or nephrectomy prevented the hypotensive effects of R-3-36-16.
Conversely, pretreatment with R-3-36-16 prevented the hypotensive effects of a
converting enzyme inhibitor. These findings indicate that the hypotensive
response induced by R-3-36-16 is due entirely to blockade of the
renin-angiotensin system. Thus, R-3-36-16 appears to be a specific, potent, and
long-acting inhibitor of primate renin. Such monoclonal antibodies provide
interesting tools for studying the effects of acute and chronic renin blockade.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.8.7.600 
PMID: 3013776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

