

4567. Hypertension. 1986 Jul;8(7):600-5.

Monoclonal antibodies against human renin. Blood pressure effects in the
marmoset.

Wood JM, Heusser C, Gulati N, Forgiarini P, Hofbauer KG.

The in vivo effects of two anti-human renin monoclonal antibodies with a high
binding affinity for primate renin were studied in conscious, volume-depleted
marmosets. These antibodies, R-3-17-7 and R-3-36-16, both have high binding
activity for renin, but only R-3-36-16 inhibits the enzymatic activity of renin
in vitro. In vivo, R-3-17-7 did not affect blood pressure after intravenous
injection of doses up to 100 micrograms/kg, although plasma renin activity was
partially reduced. In contrast, R-3-36-16 induced a reduction in blood pressure
and an inhibition of plasma renin activity at a threshold dose of 3
micrograms/kg. The maximum fall in blood pressure and complete inhibition of
plasma renin activity were observed after R-3-36-16, 10 micrograms/kg; these
effects persisted for up to 2 hours. Pretreatment with a converting enzyme
inhibitor or nephrectomy prevented the hypotensive effects of R-3-36-16.
Conversely, pretreatment with R-3-36-16 prevented the hypotensive effects of a
converting enzyme inhibitor. These findings indicate that the hypotensive
response induced by R-3-36-16 is due entirely to blockade of the
renin-angiotensin system. Thus, R-3-36-16 appears to be a specific, potent, and
long-acting inhibitor of primate renin. Such monoclonal antibodies provide
interesting tools for studying the effects of acute and chronic renin blockade.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.8.7.600 
PMID: 3013776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4568. Brain Res. 1986 Jun 18;376(1):108-16.

Learning impairment following lesion of the basal nucleus of Meynert in the
marmoset: modification by cholinergic drugs.

Ridley RM, Murray TK, Johnson JA, Baker HF.

Five common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) received unilateral ibotenic acid
lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert (nBM). Seven days later, choline
acetyltransferase activity was significantly reduced by 50% in the frontal and
temporal neocortex, 40% in the amygdala, and approximately 30% in the motor,
parietal and occipital cortex in the ipsilateral hemisphere. Four marmosets
receiving equivalent bilateral ibotenic acid lesions were severely impaired on
new visual object discrimination learning and on relearning an object
discrimination learnt prior to surgery when compared with operated controls. New 
learning in lesioned animals was substantially improved by i.m. administration of
the cholinergic agonist arecoline. Lesioned animals' learning ability improved
with time but these animals were then differentially sensitive to the disruptive 
effect of scopolamine on discrimination learning. These results show that lesions
of the nBM which destroy the rising cholinergic pathways impair learning ability 
but that this ability can be substantially restored by administration of a
cholinergic agonist.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(86)90904-2 
PMID: 3087582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

