

4568. Brain Res. 1986 Jun 18;376(1):108-16.

Learning impairment following lesion of the basal nucleus of Meynert in the
marmoset: modification by cholinergic drugs.

Ridley RM, Murray TK, Johnson JA, Baker HF.

Five common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) received unilateral ibotenic acid
lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert (nBM). Seven days later, choline
acetyltransferase activity was significantly reduced by 50% in the frontal and
temporal neocortex, 40% in the amygdala, and approximately 30% in the motor,
parietal and occipital cortex in the ipsilateral hemisphere. Four marmosets
receiving equivalent bilateral ibotenic acid lesions were severely impaired on
new visual object discrimination learning and on relearning an object
discrimination learnt prior to surgery when compared with operated controls. New 
learning in lesioned animals was substantially improved by i.m. administration of
the cholinergic agonist arecoline. Lesioned animals' learning ability improved
with time but these animals were then differentially sensitive to the disruptive 
effect of scopolamine on discrimination learning. These results show that lesions
of the nBM which destroy the rising cholinergic pathways impair learning ability 
but that this ability can be substantially restored by administration of a
cholinergic agonist.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(86)90904-2 
PMID: 3087582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4569. Brain Res. 1986 Jun 11;375(2):221-9.

Anteromedial hypothalamic lesions block proceptivity but not receptivity in the
female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kendrick KM, Dixson AF.

The sexual behavior of 8, estradiol-treated, ovariectomized common marmosets was 
recorded prior to and after bilateral radiofrequency lesions of the hypothalamus.
Lesions of the anterior hypothalamus, which extended to varying degrees into the 
medial hypothalamus, virtually abolished proceptive tongue-flicking and staring
displays. Tongue-flicking during copulation also decreased, but the females did
not show any significant increase in the number of mounts which they refused or
terminated with the exception of one animal which had received more extensive
damage to the medial hypothalamus. Significant increases in the frequencies of
allogrooming and grooming invitations also occurred after the females had been
lesioned. Sexual behavior was not significantly altered in 3 females which
received sham lesions. These results provide the first direct evidence for a
neuroanatomical distinction between hypothalamic mechanisms which regulate
proceptivity and receptivity in primates.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(86)90741-9 
PMID: 3730822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

