

4569. Brain Res. 1986 Jun 11;375(2):221-9.

Anteromedial hypothalamic lesions block proceptivity but not receptivity in the
female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kendrick KM, Dixson AF.

The sexual behavior of 8, estradiol-treated, ovariectomized common marmosets was 
recorded prior to and after bilateral radiofrequency lesions of the hypothalamus.
Lesions of the anterior hypothalamus, which extended to varying degrees into the 
medial hypothalamus, virtually abolished proceptive tongue-flicking and staring
displays. Tongue-flicking during copulation also decreased, but the females did
not show any significant increase in the number of mounts which they refused or
terminated with the exception of one animal which had received more extensive
damage to the medial hypothalamus. Significant increases in the frequencies of
allogrooming and grooming invitations also occurred after the females had been
lesioned. Sexual behavior was not significantly altered in 3 females which
received sham lesions. These results provide the first direct evidence for a
neuroanatomical distinction between hypothalamic mechanisms which regulate
proceptivity and receptivity in primates.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(86)90741-9 
PMID: 3730822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4570. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1986 Jun;79(6):840-6.

[Hypotensive effect of a human anti-renin monoclonal antibody (4G1D8) in the
sodium-depleted alert marmoset].

[Article in French]

Cazaubon C, Carlet C, Richaud JP, Nisato D, Corvol P, Gagnol JP.

A dose-response relationship was involved after an intravenous bolus of a human
antirenin monoclonal antibody (4G1D8), in sodium depleted marmosets. The sodium
depletion (furosemide: 30 mg/kg/d for 2 days) was used to potentiate the
contribution of the renin-angiotensin system in the blood pressure (BP) control. 
To record BP and inject the antibody, 2 catheters were implanted the day before
the experiment. The plasma renin activity (PRA) was measured by the RIA of
angiotensin I after an incubation of plasmas for 1 hour at pH 7.4. The sodium
depletion induced a dramatic increase of PRA (63.68 +/- 20.03 ng/ml/h of
angiotensin I compared to 2.96 +/- 1.03; p less than or equal to 0.01; n = 13).
The basal BP was 102.6 +/- 2.4 mmHg (n = 17). The maximal fall in BP was noted at
about 30 min for the three groups of animals treated by 4G1D8; it was -7.5 +/-
4.3 mmHg at the dose of 0.01 mg/kg (n = 4), -21.3 +/- 3.8 mmHg (p less than or
equal to 0.01) at 0.10 mg/kg (n = 4), and -27.5 +/- 1.4 mmHg (p = 0.10) at 0.24
mg/kg (n = 4). At the 0.10 and 0.24 mg/kg doses, the hypotension was lasting
(greater than 3 h). PRA was strongly inhibited and HR was little modified. A
dose-response relationship with a human antirenin monoclonal antibody, 4G1D8,
provides a very interesting pharmacological model for a comparative study of
renin inhibitors.


PMID: 3099700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

