

457. Mol Brain. 2019 Aug 5;12(1):69. doi: 10.1186/s13041-019-0489-5.

Fluoxetine-induced dematuration of hippocampal neurons and adult cortical
neurogenesis in the common marmoset.

Ohira K(1)(2), Hagihara H(1), Miwa M(3), Nakamura K(3), Miyakawa T(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Systems Medical Science, Institute for Comprehensive Medical
Science, Fujita Health University, Toyoake, Aichi, 470-1192, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Nutritional Brain Science, Department of Food Science and
Nutrition, Mukogawa Women's University, Nishinomiya, Hyogo, 663-8558, Japan.
(3)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
Inuyama, Aichi, 484-8506, Japan.
(4)Division of Systems Medical Science, Institute for Comprehensive Medical
Science, Fujita Health University, Toyoake, Aichi, 470-1192, Japan.
miyakawa@fujita-hu.ac.jp.

The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine (FLX) is widely used to
treat depression and anxiety disorders. Chronic FLX treatment reportedly induces 
cellular responses in the brain, including increased adult hippocampal and
cortical neurogenesis and reversal of neuron maturation in the hippocampus,
amygdala, and cortex. However, because most previous studies have used rodent
models, it remains unclear whether these FLX-induced changes occur in the primate
brain. To evaluate the effects of FLX in the primate brain, we used
immunohistological methods to assess neurogenesis and the expression of neuronal 
maturity markers following chronic FLX treatment (3 mg/kg/day for 4 weeks) in
adult marmosets (n = 3 per group). We found increased expression of doublecortin 
and calretinin, markers of immature neurons, in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of 
FLX-treated marmosets. Further, FLX treatment reduced parvalbumin expression and 
the number of neurons with perineuronal nets, which indicate mature fast-spiking 
interneurons, in the hippocampus, but not in the amygdala or cerebral cortex. We 
also found that FLX treatment increased the generation of cortical interneurons; 
however, significant up-regulation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis was not
observed in FLX-treated marmosets. These results suggest that dematuration of
hippocampal neurons and increased cortical neurogenesis may play roles in
FLX-induced effects and/or side effects. Our results are consistent with those of
previous studies showing hippocampal dematuration and increased cortical
neurogenesis in FLX-treated rodents. In contrast, FLX did not affect hippocampal 
neurogenesis or dematuration of interneurons in the amygdala and cerebral cortex.

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-019-0489-5 
PMCID: PMC6683334
PMID: 31383032  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Vet Pathol. 2019 Nov;56(6):959-963. doi: 10.1177/0300985819864307. Epub 2019 Aug 
5.

Clostridium difficile Enterocolitis in a Captive Geoffroy's Spider Monkey (Ateles
geoffroyi) and Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Armstrong AR(1), Wünschmann A(1), Rigatti LH(2), Klein EC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Population Medicine, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN, USA.
(2)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Clostridium difficile is a well-documented cause of enterocolitis in several
species, including humans, with limited documentation in New World nonhuman
primates. We report several cases of C. difficile-associated pseudomembranous
enterocolitis, including a case in a Geoffroy's spider monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) 
and several cases in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The histologic
lesions included a spectrum of severity, with most cases characterized by the
classic "volcano" lesions described in humans and several other animal species.
C. difficile was isolated from the colon of the spider monkey, while the presence
of toxin A or toxin B or of the genes of toxin A or B by polymerase chain
reaction served as corroborative evidence in several affected marmosets. C.
difficile should be considered a cause of enterocolitis in these species.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985819864307 
PMID: 31382854  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

