

4570. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1986 Jun;79(6):840-6.

[Hypotensive effect of a human anti-renin monoclonal antibody (4G1D8) in the
sodium-depleted alert marmoset].

[Article in French]

Cazaubon C, Carlet C, Richaud JP, Nisato D, Corvol P, Gagnol JP.

A dose-response relationship was involved after an intravenous bolus of a human
antirenin monoclonal antibody (4G1D8), in sodium depleted marmosets. The sodium
depletion (furosemide: 30 mg/kg/d for 2 days) was used to potentiate the
contribution of the renin-angiotensin system in the blood pressure (BP) control. 
To record BP and inject the antibody, 2 catheters were implanted the day before
the experiment. The plasma renin activity (PRA) was measured by the RIA of
angiotensin I after an incubation of plasmas for 1 hour at pH 7.4. The sodium
depletion induced a dramatic increase of PRA (63.68 +/- 20.03 ng/ml/h of
angiotensin I compared to 2.96 +/- 1.03; p less than or equal to 0.01; n = 13).
The basal BP was 102.6 +/- 2.4 mmHg (n = 17). The maximal fall in BP was noted at
about 30 min for the three groups of animals treated by 4G1D8; it was -7.5 +/-
4.3 mmHg at the dose of 0.01 mg/kg (n = 4), -21.3 +/- 3.8 mmHg (p less than or
equal to 0.01) at 0.10 mg/kg (n = 4), and -27.5 +/- 1.4 mmHg (p = 0.10) at 0.24
mg/kg (n = 4). At the 0.10 and 0.24 mg/kg doses, the hypotension was lasting
(greater than 3 h). PRA was strongly inhibited and HR was little modified. A
dose-response relationship with a human antirenin monoclonal antibody, 4G1D8,
provides a very interesting pharmacological model for a comparative study of
renin inhibitors.


PMID: 3099700  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4571. Liver. 1986 Jun;6(3):178-83.

Liver morphology in marmosets infected with epidemic non-A, non-B hepatitis in
India.

Inoue O, Nagataki S, Itakura H, Iida F, Shimizu Y, Yano M, Shikata T, Tandon BN.

In this study the morphological changes in the livers of marmosets inoculated
with stool extracts from epidemic non-A, non-B hepatitis patients in India were
examined. The histologic changes of epidemic non-A, non-B hepatitis in marmosets 
consisted mainly of round cell infiltration in the portal tracts, spotty liver
cell necrosis, sinusoidal lymphocyte infiltration, and Kupffer cell mobilization.
By electron microscopy, liver cells from infected marmosets showed cisternal
dilation of the endoplasmic reticulum, irregularly-shaped nucleus, and
disorganization of the mitochondrial cristae. In some areas interaction of
lymphocytes with hepatocytes was observed. Similar observations have been made in
type B hepatitis infection, presumably due to liver cell damage mediated by
immune mechanisms. The result of our study is also compatible with the
interpretation that the liver cell damage in this experimental model may be
mediated by immune mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0676.1986.tb00286.x 
PMID: 3091979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

