

4576. J Med Virol. 1986 Apr;18(4):369-79.

Establishment and characterization of a chronic infectious mononucleosislike
syndrome in common marmosets.

Emini EA, Luka J, Armstrong ME, Banker FS, Provost PJ, Pearson GR.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) was inoculated into two species of marmosets. Successful
infection was established in the majority of the animals of one species,
Callithrix jacchus, as evidenced by the development of high, persistent levels of
antibody against virus-specific capsid and early nonstructural proteins.
Antibodies also were produced against the major membrane antigen and, in some
animals, against EBV nuclear antigen (EBNA) 2 but not against EBNA 1. This is the
antibody profile normally noted in individuals with chronic infectious
mononucleosis (IM). EBV-induced lymphoproliferation was not seen, and
EBV-specific proteins were not detected in the peripheral blood lymphocytes of
infected animals. Hence, EBV infection in C. jacchus apparently does not
generally include extensive B-cell involvement. However, the marmosets clearly
are useful as a model for EBV primary infection and also possibly for chronic IM.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890180410 
PMID: 3011982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4577. Lab Anim. 1986 Apr;20(2):121-6.

Rapid diagnosis and management of parainfluenza I virus infection in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Sutherland SD, Almeida JD, Gardner PS, Skarpa M, Stanton J.

During 1983 a severe episode of respiratory infection occurred in a marmoset
colony at these laboratories. Of 91 marmosets, 69 showed clinical signs of
disease, one died and nine were so ill that euthanasia was necessary. Eight were 
examined post mortem and all showed consolidation of the lungs. Laboratory
studies were carried out in an attempt to establish the cause of the outbreak and
an interstitial pneumonia was found in seven animals which were examined
histologically. Direct electron microscopy of nasal swabs and lung samples
revealed the presence of a high titre of a paramyxovirus, and subsequent
immunofluorescence studies established that the particular paramyxovirus involved
was parainfluenza virus type I. Subsequent studies showed that surviving affected
animals had seroconverted to parainfluenza I virus while animals that had not
been implicated in the outbreak had not.

DOI: 10.1258/002367786780865151 
PMID: 3009965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

