

4577. Lab Anim. 1986 Apr;20(2):121-6.

Rapid diagnosis and management of parainfluenza I virus infection in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Sutherland SD, Almeida JD, Gardner PS, Skarpa M, Stanton J.

During 1983 a severe episode of respiratory infection occurred in a marmoset
colony at these laboratories. Of 91 marmosets, 69 showed clinical signs of
disease, one died and nine were so ill that euthanasia was necessary. Eight were 
examined post mortem and all showed consolidation of the lungs. Laboratory
studies were carried out in an attempt to establish the cause of the outbreak and
an interstitial pneumonia was found in seven animals which were examined
histologically. Direct electron microscopy of nasal swabs and lung samples
revealed the presence of a high titre of a paramyxovirus, and subsequent
immunofluorescence studies established that the particular paramyxovirus involved
was parainfluenza virus type I. Subsequent studies showed that surviving affected
animals had seroconverted to parainfluenza I virus while animals that had not
been implicated in the outbreak had not.

DOI: 10.1258/002367786780865151 
PMID: 3009965  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4578. Neurosci Lett. 1986 Mar 28;65(1):79-83.

The dopamine neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)
produces histological lesions in the hypothalamus of the common marmoset.

Gibb WR, Lees AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

The administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to
marmosets resulted in parkinsonism and degeneration of the substantia nigra pars 
compacta. Examination of the hypothalamus showed neuronophagic-like rosettes of
glial cells and diffuse increase in glial numbers in areas of the dopaminergic
A11-A14 groups. These findings suggest that MPTP may be toxic to dopamine neurons
of the hypothalamus as well as to the substantia nigra.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(86)90123-0 
PMID: 3486388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

