

4579. J Reprod Fertil. 1986 Mar;76(2):809-19.

The embryo-maternal dialogue during early pregnancy in primates.

Hearn JP.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0760809 
PMID: 3517317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4580. J Virol. 1986 Feb;57(2):701-5.

Nononcogenic deletion mutants of herpesvirus saimiri are defective for in vitro
immortalization.

Desrosiers RC, Silva DP, Waldron LM, Letvin NL.

Herpesvirus saimiri L-DNA sequences between 0.0 and 4.0 map units (4.5 kilobase
pairs) are required for oncogenicity; these sequences are not required for
replication of the virus. To investigate the basis for the lack of oncogenicity
of mutants with deletions in this region and to study the function of this
region, we developed a reliable system for in vitro immortalization by
herpesvirus saimiri. In contrast to peripheral blood lymphocytes from cotton-top 
tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) and owl monkeys (Aotus sp.), infection of peripheral 
blood lymphocytes from common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in vitro with
herpesvirus saimiri consistently yielded continuously growing lymphoblastoid cell
lines. Such cell lines were established using strains of herpesvirus saimiri from
group A and group non-A, non-B; however, repeated attempts to immortalize common 
marmoset peripheral blood lymphocytes using strains from group B were not
successful. Common marmoset cell lines immortalized by herpesvirus saimiri were
T12+, T8+, T4-, and B1-, indicating that they were derived from
suppressor/cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Cell lines could not be established using the
nononcogenic mutants 11att and S4, both of which were derived from the group A
strain 11 virus. Strain 11att has a spontaneous deletion and S4 has a constructed
deletion in the 0.0 to 4.0 map unit region. Constructed strains which had these
deleted sequences restored did immortalize common marmoset peripheral blood
lymphocytes. Thus, the nononcogenic deletion mutants are defective for
immortalization. This system should facilitate attempts to define the sequences
responsible for immortalization and to determine their function.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.57.2.701-705.1986 
PMCID: PMC252789
PMID: 3003401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

