

4582. Hum Genet. 1986 Jan;72(1):98-100.

New cytogenetic techniques in the study of primate genome evolution.

De Stefano GF, Ferrucci L.

Fixed metaphase chromosomes of different species and genera of Primates (five
species of Macaca genus and Callithrix jacchus) have been studied after Alu I
restriction enzyme digestion and DA-DAPI counterstaining, in the attempt to
determine some qualitative characteristics of their DNAs and specifically of the 
DNA localized in the heterochromatic components of the karyotypes. The results
have been discussed in the light of those already published on humans, confirming
the potentiality of this approach in the study of the phyloevolutive
relationships in Primates.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00278827 
PMID: 3943867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4583. Physiol Behav. 1986;37(3):447-50.

Genital sensory feedback and sexual behaviour in male and female marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Dixson AF.

Local anaesthesia (using lidocaine) of the penis, or of the vagina and cervix
caused marked changes in the sexual behaviour of marmosets. Penile
desensitization did not affect sexual arousal or erectile capacity. However,
intromission latencies increased and 7 out of 10 males failed to intromit during 
some post-lidocaine tests. Females failed to show several behavioural patterns
which normally occur during intromission (shrugging body movements, head turning 
and opening the mouth) or exhibited them at reduced frequencies after
intra-vaginal application of lidocaine. The tendency of females to terminate
mounts after ejaculation had occurred was also reduced with resultant increases
in intromission duration in all cases. Desensitization of the females' external
genitalia had no effect upon sexual behaviour. Co-ordination of copulatory
behaviour in this primate species depends, in part, upon afferent stimuli from
the penis and from the vagina or cervix.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(86)90204-0 
PMID: 3749303  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

