

4585. Physiol Behav. 1986;36(5):971-3.

Proceptive displays of the female common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): effects
of ovariectomy and oestradiol 17 beta.

Dixson AF.

Proceptivity in the common marmoset consisted of brief periods when females
remained with body and limbs immobile (IM) or crouched, and then stared,
lipsmacked and tongue-flicked at males. Treatment of ovariectomized females with 
oestradiol activated all these proceptive displays but did not influence the
combinations in which they occurred during IM periods.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(86)90462-2 
PMID: 3714875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4586. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1986;3(2):159-65.

6-Mercaptopurine: total body autoradiograms and plasma concentration-time curves 
of 6MP and metabolites from marmoset monkeys.

Schouten TJ(1), De Abreu RA, Schretlen ED, de Vaan GA, van der Kleijn E.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Pediatric Oncology S.E. Netherlands, Nijmegen.

To study the body distribution of 6-mercaptopurine (6MP), [8-14C]6MP was given by
infusion to 2 marmoset monkeys at a dose rate of 5 mg/kg body weight/h for 1 and 
4 h, respectively. Both experimental animals were sacrificed 2 h after the end of
the drug infusion and instantly frozen at -70 degrees C. Whole-body sagittal
sections were made later. Blood samples were obtained regularly during the
experiments to quantitate 6MP, 6MP riboside (6MPR), 6-thioxanthine, and
6-thiouric acid in plasma. The autoradiograms revealed extensive distribution of 
the 14C label. High levels of radioactivity were seen in liver, bile, and
intestinal contents. Labeling of the central nervous system and bone marrow was
obvious. The plasma concentration-time curves of 6MP and 6MPR attained
steady-state concentrations of 30-40 microM and 6-12 microM, respectively. After 
stopping the infusion of the drug, the concentrations of 6MP and 6MPR became
equal. 6MPR contributes to the biological effect of 6MP, as degradation of 6MPR
results in 6MP. In studies on the pharmacokinetics and dynamics one should try to
include all relevant metabolites of 6MP, both in plasma and in the cells.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018609031212 
PMID: 3153226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

