

4586. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1986;3(2):159-65.

6-Mercaptopurine: total body autoradiograms and plasma concentration-time curves 
of 6MP and metabolites from marmoset monkeys.

Schouten TJ(1), De Abreu RA, Schretlen ED, de Vaan GA, van der Kleijn E.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Pediatric Oncology S.E. Netherlands, Nijmegen.

To study the body distribution of 6-mercaptopurine (6MP), [8-14C]6MP was given by
infusion to 2 marmoset monkeys at a dose rate of 5 mg/kg body weight/h for 1 and 
4 h, respectively. Both experimental animals were sacrificed 2 h after the end of
the drug infusion and instantly frozen at -70 degrees C. Whole-body sagittal
sections were made later. Blood samples were obtained regularly during the
experiments to quantitate 6MP, 6MP riboside (6MPR), 6-thioxanthine, and
6-thiouric acid in plasma. The autoradiograms revealed extensive distribution of 
the 14C label. High levels of radioactivity were seen in liver, bile, and
intestinal contents. Labeling of the central nervous system and bone marrow was
obvious. The plasma concentration-time curves of 6MP and 6MPR attained
steady-state concentrations of 30-40 microM and 6-12 microM, respectively. After 
stopping the infusion of the drug, the concentrations of 6MP and 6MPR became
equal. 6MPR contributes to the biological effect of 6MP, as degradation of 6MPR
results in 6MP. In studies on the pharmacokinetics and dynamics one should try to
include all relevant metabolites of 6MP, both in plasma and in the cells.

DOI: 10.3109/08880018609031212 
PMID: 3153226  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4587. Mov Disord. 1986;1(2):129-34.

Administration of MPTP to the common marmoset does not alter cortical cholinergic
function.

Garvey J(1), Petersen M, Waters CM, Rose SP, Hunt S, Briggs R, Jenner P, Marsden 
CD.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Neurology, Institute of Psychiatry, London, England.

The administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to
common marmosets induced persistent motor deficits and decreased concentrations
of dopamine, homovanillic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxy-phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and
[3H]dopamine uptake in the caudate-putamen. There was an 80% reduction in
tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells in substantia nigra. At 10 days
following the start of MPTP administration, the activity of choline
acetyltransferase in the thalamus and frontal cortex was unchanged compared with 
control animals. Similarly, specific [3H]QNB binding was unaltered. At 4-6 weeks 
following the start of MPTP treatment, choline acetyltransferase activity and
[3H]QNB binding in the frontal cortex and thalamus remained unaffected. There was
no evidence for cell loss in the nucleus basalis of Meynert or alteration in the 
intensity of staining for acetylcholinesterase. MPTP treatment of the common
marmoset produces a nigrostriatal lesion. In contrast, MPTP did not alter
cortical cholinergic function and was not neurotoxic to the cholinergic cells in 
the nucleus basalis of Meynert.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870010207 
PMID: 3143064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

