

4587. Mov Disord. 1986;1(2):129-34.

Administration of MPTP to the common marmoset does not alter cortical cholinergic
function.

Garvey J(1), Petersen M, Waters CM, Rose SP, Hunt S, Briggs R, Jenner P, Marsden 
CD.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Neurology, Institute of Psychiatry, London, England.

The administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to
common marmosets induced persistent motor deficits and decreased concentrations
of dopamine, homovanillic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxy-phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and
[3H]dopamine uptake in the caudate-putamen. There was an 80% reduction in
tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells in substantia nigra. At 10 days
following the start of MPTP administration, the activity of choline
acetyltransferase in the thalamus and frontal cortex was unchanged compared with 
control animals. Similarly, specific [3H]QNB binding was unaltered. At 4-6 weeks 
following the start of MPTP treatment, choline acetyltransferase activity and
[3H]QNB binding in the frontal cortex and thalamus remained unaffected. There was
no evidence for cell loss in the nucleus basalis of Meynert or alteration in the 
intensity of staining for acetylcholinesterase. MPTP treatment of the common
marmoset produces a nigrostriatal lesion. In contrast, MPTP did not alter
cortical cholinergic function and was not neurotoxic to the cholinergic cells in 
the nucleus basalis of Meynert.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870010207 
PMID: 3143064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4588. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1986;47(4):166-70.

Plasma testosterone concentrations during postnatal development in the male
common marmoset.

Dixson AF.

Repeated measurements of plasma testosterone (T) were made in 56 male marmosets
from the day of birth until 300 days of age and in 44 adults (greater than 3
years). The resulting profile of plasma T during postnatal development shows
higher levels during infancy (1-90 days) followed by a nadir between 100 and 170 
days and then a progressive rise in T during puberty. Although T levels of up to 
21 ng/ml were measured in infant males, mean levels (+/- SEM) were 5.4 +/- 0.6
ng/ml (days 1-10), declining gradually to 1.7 +/- 0.1 ng/ml (days 100-110). No
increase in mean T levels between 15 and 100 days was identified, and the onset
of puberty was earlier in some males than measured previously in this species.

DOI: 10.1159/000156275 
PMID: 3111958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

