

4592. Comp Biochem Physiol B. 1986;84(2):143-4.

Sulphoxidation of S-carboxymethyl-L-cysteine in the rhesus monkey (Macaca
mulatta), cynomologus monkey (Macaca fascicularis), African green monkey
(Cercopithecus aethiops) and the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Mitchell SC, Waring RH, Wilson VL, Idle JR, Autrup H, Harris CC, Ritchie JC,
Crothers MJ, Sieber SM.

The metabolic pathways giving rise to the urinary metabolites of
S-carboxymethyl-L-cysteine have been identified for the rhesus, cynomologus,
African green and marmoset species of monkey. The formation of a sulphoxide
metabolite from the sulphide precursor is a reaction important in these species. 
The metabolic profile displayed by the marmoset was distinct from the three Old
World species, with the rhesus and cynomologus being similar to man.

DOI: 10.1016/0305-0491(86)90195-1 
PMID: 3089678  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4593. Gegenbaurs Morphol Jahrb. 1986;132(2):205-30.

Observations on the discharge of the secretion from ependymal cells of the
subcommissural organ (SCO) of some South American primates.

Hofer HO.

The secretion of the subcommissural organ (SCO) is synthesized in the intrinsic
cells of that structure, a neuroendocrine gland. The organelles involved in the
synthesis of this secretion are rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum (RER) and
the Golgi apparatus. It is still uncertain whether and to what extent the latter 
participates in the synthesis. In highly active secretory ependymal cells of the 
SCO, the Golgi apparatus exhibits distinct signs of intense activity. This
suggests that the Golgi apparatus is involved in the preparation of the
secretion, even if this is difficult to prove electron microscopically. The
secretion is discharged from the optical part of the SCO-cells into the
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of the IIIrd ventricle, where Reissner's fibre is
formed. Different phases of release of the content of the secretory granula into 
the IIIrd ventricle are described; our findings are in agreement with previously 
published observations. In 2 cases delicately granulated and moderately
electron-dense material was found in circumscriptly dilated vaults of the
intercellular spaces. Release of secretory material into intercellular spaces
appears to be possible, but is evidently infrequent. Regular occurrence of a
basal (peripheral) discharge into the hypendymal capillaries is not unanimously
agreed upon as yet. In this paper, a passage of granula is described from the
cytoplasm of the end feet of SCO cells through the walls of the capillaries into 
the systemic circulation. This provides structural evidence that secretory
material synthesized in the SCO is released into the capillaries. These
observations must ultimately be confirmed with the aid of ultracytochemical
methods, particularly using labelled material.


PMID: 3086178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

