

4603. J Comp Neurol. 1985 Sep 22;239(4):413-9.

A callosal projection of area 17 upon the border region of area MT in the
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Kunz B, Spatz WB.

Injections of the retrograde tracer HRP into the border region of the temporal
visual area MT and adjoining cortex in Callithrix labeled pyramidal neurons in
area 17 of the contralateral hemisphere. Evidence is presented that this newly
discovered heterotopic callosal projection of the monkey striate cortex connects 
regions of representation of the zero vertical meridian of the visual field in a 
retinotopic order.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902390407 
PMID: 3930580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4604. Br J Nutr. 1985 Sep;54(2):367-72.

Low-iodine diet for the production of severe I deficiency in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Mano MT, Potter BJ, Belling GB, Hetzel BS.

A low-iodine diet consisting of maize, peas (Pisum sativum), torula yeast, meat
meal, maize oil and added vitamins, minerals and amino acids was given to eight
pairs of adult, common cotton-eared marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus). Eight
control pairs were given the same diet to which potassium iodate was added. Both 
groups also received low-I apple and deionized water. The diet provided adequate 
nutrition, as confirmed by the maintenance of body-weight and good health. In the
I-deficient marmosets the concentration of plasma thyroxine was decreased from
140.1 nmol/l to 22.4 nmol/l and thyroid-stimulating hormone increased
significantly from 1.8 ng/ml to 9.0 ng/ml compared with control marmosets,
thereby indicating severe I deficiency. Compared with newborn offspring from
control marmosets, the thyroid glands from the I-deficient offspring showed an
increase in weight, a decrease in I content and, on histological examination,
hyperplasia, hypertrophy and a total absence of colloid material in the
follicles.

DOI: 10.1079/bjn19850122 
PMID: 3933555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

