

4606. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1985 Sep;48(9):927-9.

Passive transfer studies in demyelinating neuropathy with IgM monoclonal
antibodies to myelin-associated glycoprotein.

Steck AJ, Murray N, Justafre JC, Meier C, Toyka KV, Heininger K, Stoll G.

Serum or IgM fraction from two patients with a demyelinating neuropathy and IgM
monoclonal antibodies to myelin-associated glycoprotein were injected in three
different animal species. There were no clinical, electrophysiological or
morphological signs of demyelination in either chronic or acute passive transfer 
experiments. These results suggest that the pathogenesis of this human
demyelinating neuropathy may be more complex than has been assumed.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.48.9.927 
PMCID: PMC1028496
PMID: 2413173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4607. Br J Exp Pathol. 1985 Aug;66(4):417-26.

Acute upper genital-tract disease in female monkeys provoked experimentally by
Mycoplasma genitalium.

MÃ¸ller BR, Taylor-Robinson D, Furr PM, Freundt EA.

The oviducts of two grivet monkeys and three marmosets, all sexually mature
animals, were inoculated with Mycoplasma genitalium at laparotomy. The mycoplasma
was not recovered from the grivet monkeys, nor from the oviducts of the marmosets
although it was isolated intermittently from the vagina of two of the latter
animals up to 4-6 weeks after inoculation. In contrast, all of the animals
developed antibody to M. genitalium measured by a micro-immunofluorescence
technique. It developed rapidly in the grivet monkeys but slowly in the
marmosets, being detected first about 1 month after inoculation with a maximal
response by 2 months. Furthermore, despite an absence of vaginal discharge or
cytological response, all the animals developed a moderate to severe
endosalpingitis characterized by the infiltration of acute inflammatory cells
into the tubal epithelium, together with a lumenal exudate and adhesions between 
the mucosal folds. The changes are similar to those produced by Chlamydia
trachomatis in simian models and naturally in women.


PMCID: PMC2041089
PMID: 4027175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

