

4607. Br J Exp Pathol. 1985 Aug;66(4):417-26.

Acute upper genital-tract disease in female monkeys provoked experimentally by
Mycoplasma genitalium.

MÃ¸ller BR, Taylor-Robinson D, Furr PM, Freundt EA.

The oviducts of two grivet monkeys and three marmosets, all sexually mature
animals, were inoculated with Mycoplasma genitalium at laparotomy. The mycoplasma
was not recovered from the grivet monkeys, nor from the oviducts of the marmosets
although it was isolated intermittently from the vagina of two of the latter
animals up to 4-6 weeks after inoculation. In contrast, all of the animals
developed antibody to M. genitalium measured by a micro-immunofluorescence
technique. It developed rapidly in the grivet monkeys but slowly in the
marmosets, being detected first about 1 month after inoculation with a maximal
response by 2 months. Furthermore, despite an absence of vaginal discharge or
cytological response, all the animals developed a moderate to severe
endosalpingitis characterized by the infiltration of acute inflammatory cells
into the tubal epithelium, together with a lumenal exudate and adhesions between 
the mucosal folds. The changes are similar to those produced by Chlamydia
trachomatis in simian models and naturally in women.


PMCID: PMC2041089
PMID: 4027175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4608. Lab Anim. 1985 Jul;19(3):245-50.

Palatability and digestibility of soya- and milk proteins in Callithricidae.

Flurer C, Krombach F, Zucker H.

4 protein sources were tested for palatability, digestibility, influence on
bodyweight and consistency of faeces in Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus
fuscicollis. The protein sources were incorporated at crude protein levels of 12,
17 and 22% in a pelleted diet. A banana supplement was also fed which reduced the
total protein content to 10.7, 14.7 and 18.3%. The test diets, fed for 3 weeks,
were well accepted with the milk proteins being slightly preferred. Consumption
of the 12% protein pellets was greater than their 22% equivalents. True protein
digestibility was calculated to be 97% for lactalbumin, 96% for casein, 90% for
soy protein concentrate and 83% for soyabean meal. Changes in bodyweight were
negligible. Dry matter of faeces varied between 25% (lactalbumin diets) and 28%
(casein diets), but did not change with increasing protein intake. Increasing
levels of cellulose, from 2.4 to 7.2% total crude fibre lowered the apparent
protein digestibility from 84.3 to 79.2% and the digestibility of dry matter from
82.2 to 76.5%.

DOI: 10.1258/002367785780893539 
PMID: 2993740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

