

4608. Lab Anim. 1985 Jul;19(3):245-50.

Palatability and digestibility of soya- and milk proteins in Callithricidae.

Flurer C, Krombach F, Zucker H.

4 protein sources were tested for palatability, digestibility, influence on
bodyweight and consistency of faeces in Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus
fuscicollis. The protein sources were incorporated at crude protein levels of 12,
17 and 22% in a pelleted diet. A banana supplement was also fed which reduced the
total protein content to 10.7, 14.7 and 18.3%. The test diets, fed for 3 weeks,
were well accepted with the milk proteins being slightly preferred. Consumption
of the 12% protein pellets was greater than their 22% equivalents. True protein
digestibility was calculated to be 97% for lactalbumin, 96% for casein, 90% for
soy protein concentrate and 83% for soyabean meal. Changes in bodyweight were
negligible. Dry matter of faeces varied between 25% (lactalbumin diets) and 28%
(casein diets), but did not change with increasing protein intake. Increasing
levels of cellulose, from 2.4 to 7.2% total crude fibre lowered the apparent
protein digestibility from 84.3 to 79.2% and the digestibility of dry matter from
82.2 to 76.5%.

DOI: 10.1258/002367785780893539 
PMID: 2993740  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4609. J Comp Neurol. 1985 Jun 15;236(3):403-22.

Distribution of certain peptide-containing nerve fibres and endocrine cells in
the gastrointestinal mucosa in five mammalian species.

Keast JR, Furness JB, Costa M.

The distribution of mucosal nerve fibres containing vasoactive intestinal peptide
(VIP), substance P, somatostatin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), and enkephalinlike
immunoreactivity was mapped by conventional immunohistochemical techniques
throughout the mucosa of the esophagus, stomach, small and large intestines, and 
gall bladder. In addition, the distributions of endocrine cells immunoreactive
for three peptides localized by these antisera (namely somatostatin, pancreatic
polypeptide, and substance P) were recorded. Tissues from guinea pigs, rats,
dogs, marmosets, and humans were studied. It was hoped that this information
would enable possible target tissues and functional roles for the peptides to be 
identified. In the mucosa, peptide nerve fibres were found throughout the lamina 
propria, including some which were close to the epithelium and others associated 
with small blood vessels. Although there was a general similarity of peptide
nerve distribution between regions and species, many small variations were
observed. VIP and substance P fibres were the most prevalent nerve type; NPY
fibres were also usually quite common. The distribution of somatostatin fibres
was extremely variable between regions and species, and enkephalin fibres were
usually rare. Endocrine cells of open (flask- or pyramid-shaped) and closed
(rounded) types were seen; basal cytoplasmic processes (of variable length) were 
seen on many cells immunoreactive for somatostatin or pancreatic polypeptide.
Epithelial cells immunoreactive for substance P were seen in the dog, marmoset,
and human. The distributions and shapes of endocrine cells varied widely between 
areas and species. These studies provide a basis for the correlation of nerve
distribution with pharmacological and physiological studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902360308 
PMID: 2414338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

