

4609. J Comp Neurol. 1985 Jun 15;236(3):403-22.

Distribution of certain peptide-containing nerve fibres and endocrine cells in
the gastrointestinal mucosa in five mammalian species.

Keast JR, Furness JB, Costa M.

The distribution of mucosal nerve fibres containing vasoactive intestinal peptide
(VIP), substance P, somatostatin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), and enkephalinlike
immunoreactivity was mapped by conventional immunohistochemical techniques
throughout the mucosa of the esophagus, stomach, small and large intestines, and 
gall bladder. In addition, the distributions of endocrine cells immunoreactive
for three peptides localized by these antisera (namely somatostatin, pancreatic
polypeptide, and substance P) were recorded. Tissues from guinea pigs, rats,
dogs, marmosets, and humans were studied. It was hoped that this information
would enable possible target tissues and functional roles for the peptides to be 
identified. In the mucosa, peptide nerve fibres were found throughout the lamina 
propria, including some which were close to the epithelium and others associated 
with small blood vessels. Although there was a general similarity of peptide
nerve distribution between regions and species, many small variations were
observed. VIP and substance P fibres were the most prevalent nerve type; NPY
fibres were also usually quite common. The distribution of somatostatin fibres
was extremely variable between regions and species, and enkephalin fibres were
usually rare. Endocrine cells of open (flask- or pyramid-shaped) and closed
(rounded) types were seen; basal cytoplasmic processes (of variable length) were 
seen on many cells immunoreactive for somatostatin or pancreatic polypeptide.
Epithelial cells immunoreactive for substance P were seen in the dog, marmoset,
and human. The distributions and shapes of endocrine cells varied widely between 
areas and species. These studies provide a basis for the correlation of nerve
distribution with pharmacological and physiological studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902360308 
PMID: 2414338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4610. Neurosci Lett. 1985 Jun 4;57(1):37-41.

The dopamine D2 agonist LY 141865, but not the D1 agonist SKF 38393, reverses
parkinsonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in
the common marmoset.

Nomoto M, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Marmosets treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (1-4
mg/kg i.p. daily for up to 8 days) develop profound parkinsonian akinesia.
Administration of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (1-20 mg/kg i.p.) 4-6 weeks later had 
no effect on the motor activity of animals pretreated with MPTP. In contrast, the
administration of the D2 agonist LY 141865 (0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg i.p.) caused a
marked increase in motor activity lasting for up to 2 h. We conclude that
stimulation of D2 dopamine receptors is essential for motor activation of
parkinsonian marmosets and that D1 stimulation alone is not sufficient to
overcome the akinesia induced by MPTP treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(85)90037-0 
PMID: 3162113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

