

4610. Neurosci Lett. 1985 Jun 4;57(1):37-41.

The dopamine D2 agonist LY 141865, but not the D1 agonist SKF 38393, reverses
parkinsonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) in
the common marmoset.

Nomoto M, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Marmosets treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (1-4
mg/kg i.p. daily for up to 8 days) develop profound parkinsonian akinesia.
Administration of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (1-20 mg/kg i.p.) 4-6 weeks later had 
no effect on the motor activity of animals pretreated with MPTP. In contrast, the
administration of the D2 agonist LY 141865 (0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg i.p.) caused a
marked increase in motor activity lasting for up to 2 h. We conclude that
stimulation of D2 dopamine receptors is essential for motor activation of
parkinsonian marmosets and that D1 stimulation alone is not sufficient to
overcome the akinesia induced by MPTP treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(85)90037-0 
PMID: 3162113  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4611. Arch Toxicol. 1985 Jun;57(2):119-24.

Reduction and binding of arsenate in marmoset monkeys.

Vahter M, Marafante E.

The metabolism of 74As-arsenate (As V, 0.4 mg As/kg body weight, IV) in marmoset 
monkeys (two males and two females) was studied. Unlike all other animal species 
studied so far, the marmoset was found to be unable to metabolize the arsenate to
dimethylarsinic acid. Most of the absorbed arsenate was reduced to arsenite (As
III) in vivo. Only 20% was excreted in the urine as unchanged As V. A further 20%
of the dose was excreted as As III. The rest of the As III produced was bound to 
the tissues, giving a distribution picture very similar to that reported earlier 
for marmoset monkeys given arsenite. The tissues with longest retention of
arsenic were the liver, upper gastrointestinal tract (oral cavity and esophagus),
skin, kidneys and gall bladder. The pronounced accumulation in the liver resulted
from specific binding of arsenic to the rough microsomal membranes, unique to
this animal species.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00343121 
PMID: 4026570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

