

4611. Arch Toxicol. 1985 Jun;57(2):119-24.

Reduction and binding of arsenate in marmoset monkeys.

Vahter M, Marafante E.

The metabolism of 74As-arsenate (As V, 0.4 mg As/kg body weight, IV) in marmoset 
monkeys (two males and two females) was studied. Unlike all other animal species 
studied so far, the marmoset was found to be unable to metabolize the arsenate to
dimethylarsinic acid. Most of the absorbed arsenate was reduced to arsenite (As
III) in vivo. Only 20% was excreted in the urine as unchanged As V. A further 20%
of the dose was excreted as As III. The rest of the As III produced was bound to 
the tissues, giving a distribution picture very similar to that reported earlier 
for marmoset monkeys given arsenite. The tissues with longest retention of
arsenic were the liver, upper gastrointestinal tract (oral cavity and esophagus),
skin, kidneys and gall bladder. The pronounced accumulation in the liver resulted
from specific binding of arsenic to the rough microsomal membranes, unique to
this animal species.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00343121 
PMID: 4026570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4612. Parasitology. 1985 Jun;90 ( Pt 3):573-8.

Plasmodium brasilianum in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Wedderburn N, Mitchell GH, Davies DR.

Chronic quartan malarial infection has been established in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Plasmodium brasilianum from a douroucouli monkey (Aotus
trivirgatus) was used to infect splenectomized twin animals, passed to an intact 
animal, and then to 4 other intact adults, 2 pairs of twins. In 2 of the 4 latter
animals there was continuing patency with parasitaemias of less than or equal to 
0.5% parasitized erythrocytes for 30 weeks. The other 2 had lower initial levels 
of parasitaemia; in 1 of these parasitaemias remained low or subpatent. All
marmosets developed lymphocytosis. One animal became ill 30 weeks after infection
with anaemia, weight loss and mild proteinurea, the other 3 remained well.
Histological examination showed minor changes in the kidneys; spleens of infected
animals showed marked follicular hyperplasia and phagocytosis of pigment. The
livers showed sinusoidal hypercellularity and pigment deposition and in
splenectomized animals, a marked lymphoid follicular hyperplasia in the portal
tracts.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000055566 
PMID: 3925423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

