

4613. Jpn J Cancer Res. 1985 Jun;76(6):481-7.

Oral transmission of human T-cell leukemia virus type-I into a common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) as an experimental model for milk-borne transmission.

Yamanouchi K, Kinoshita K, Moriuchi R, Katamine S, Amagasaki T, Ikeda S, Ichimaru
M, Miyamoto T, Hino S.

To obtain experimental support for possible milk-borne infection of human T-cell 
leukemia virus type-I (HTLV-I), short-term-cultured viral antigen-positive
lymphocytes obtained from peripheral blood of adult T-cell leukemia lymphoma
complex (ATLL) patients were inoculated into the oral cavity of two adult common 
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in amounts comparable to those of HTLV-I-carrying 
cells fed to a baby in the milk of seropositive mothers. One of the animals
seroconverted 2.5 months after the first inoculation. Cultures of peripheral
blood mononuclear leukocytes of the marmoset revealed HTLV-I antigen expression
in cells, indicating the establishment of oral infection of HTLV-I in an adult
marmoset. The cell number deduced to be responsible for the infection was 5.6 X
10(7) cells (used in the first 2 inoculations). The results suggest that the
concept of milk-borne infection of HTLV-I from a seropositive mother to her child
is plausible.


PMID: 2991061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4614. Biochem J. 1985 Apr 15;227(2):555-63.

The mechanism of end-organ resistance to 1 alpha,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol in
the common marmoset.

Takahashi N, Suda S, Shinki T, Horiuchi N, Shiina Y, Tanioka Y, Koizumi H, Suda
T.

The common marmoset, a New World monkey, requires a large amount of
cholecalciferol (110 i.u./day per 100g body wt.) to maintain its normal growth.
In a previous report, we demonstrated that the circulating levels of 1 alpha,
25-dihydroxycholecalciferol [1 alpha,25(OH)2D3] in the marmosets are much higher 
than those in rhesus monkeys and humans, but the marmosets are not hypercalcaemic
[Shinki, Shiina, Takahashi, Tanioka, Koizumi & Suda (1983) Biochem. Biophys. Res.
Commun. 14, 452-457]. To compare the effect of the daily intake of
cholecalciferol, two rhesus monkeys were given a large amount of cholecalciferol 
(900 i.u./day per 100g body wt). Their serum levels of calcium,
25-hydroxycholecalciferol and 24R,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol were markedly
elevated, but the serum 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 levels remained within a range similar 
to those in the rhesus monkeys fed the normal diet (intake of cholecalciferol 5
i.u./day per 100g body wt). Intestinal cytosols prepared from both monkeys
contained similar 3.5 S macromolecules to which 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 was bound
specifically. However, the cytosols from the marmosets contained only one-sixth
as many 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 receptors as those from the rhesus monkeys.
Furthermore, the activity of the 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3-receptor complex in binding to
DNA-cellulose was very low in the marmosets. These results suggest that the
marmoset possesses an end-organ resistance to 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 and is a useful
animal model for studying the mechanism of vitamin D-dependent rickets, type II.

DOI: 10.1042/bj2270555 
PMCID: PMC1144875
PMID: 2988503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

