

4616. Am J Anat. 1985 Apr;172(4):265-78.

Early implantation stages in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Moore HD, Gems S, Hearn JP.

The morphology of the initial stages of implantation in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) was studied by obtaining embryos and associated endometrium 
at timed intervals after ovulation. Estrus cycles were detected by measuring
daily levels of plasma progesterone. Following a short follicular phase,
circulating levels of progesterone above 20 ng/ml were taken as representing day 
1 after ovulation. On this basis, single, twin, and triplet embryos were
recovered from six perfused-fixed females on days 13, 16, 19, 23, and 29 after
ovulation and prepared in resin for light microscopy. Early implantation stages, 
13 and 16 days after ovulation, were characterized by the intrusion of syncytial 
trophoblast between epithelial cells of the endometrium with minimal cellular
damage. Some hyperplasia of epithelium at the margin of the implantation site was
evident. The consolidation of the initial attachment was achieved by an increase 
in syncytial trophoblast underlying the inner cell mass of the embryo which
rapidly surrounded and breached maternal capillaries. Although initially
separate, the chorions of twin or triplet embryos started to fuse by day 19 after
ovulation. This process was complete by day 29 such that embryos shared a common 
uterine exocoelom surrounded by continuous trophoblast. It was concluded that
implantation in the marmoset monkey commenced on days 11-12.5 after ovulation and
involved an intrusive mechanism. Although trophoblast penetration of endometrium 
was superficial, maternal capillaries were tapped at an early stage of
implantation. The fusion of chorions of twins and triplets first occurred around 
day 19 after ovulation.

DOI: 10.1002/aja.1001720402 
PMID: 3922211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4617. Vet Rec. 1985 Mar 9;116(10):266-7.

Uterine rupture during labour in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Lunn SF.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.116.10.266 
PMID: 3922101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

