

4619. Am J Primatol. 1985;9(3):219-224. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350090307.

Serum concentrations of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in Platyrrhini and Catarrhini: A
phylogenetic appraisal.

Adams JS(1), Gacad MA(1), Baker AJ(2), Gonzales B(2), Rude RK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Orthopaedic Hospital/University of Southern California Bone and Connective
Tissue Research Laboratory, University of Southern California School of Medicine.
(2)Los Angeles Zoo, Los Angeles.

We measured the serum concentration of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25-OH-D3) and
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25-[OH]2-D3) in 23 different Platyrrhines from four
different genera and in 21 Catarrhines from six different genera in residence at 
the Los Angeles Zoo. The mean (±S.E.) serum concentration of 1,25-(OH)2-D3 was
significantly greater in Platyrrhines (810 ± 119 pg/ml) than in Catarrhines (61 ±
5 pg/ml), suggesting that high circulating concentrations of the active vitamin D
hormone were a characteristic of New World primates in both the Cebidae and
Callitrichidae family. This increase in the serum concentration of 1,25-(OH)2-D3 
is probably an adaptational response on the part of Platyrrhini to offset a
relative decrease in the concentration of specific receptor for 1,25-(OH)2-D3 in 
target tissues for the hormone.

Copyright © 1985 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350090307 
PMID: 31986791 


4620. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1985;44(2):82-95.

Sexual dimorphism in the postcranial skeleton of New World primates.

Leutenegger W, Larson S.

This study examines sexual dimorphism in 24 dimensions of the postcranial
skeleton of four platyrrhine species: Callithrix jacchus, Saguinus nigricollis,
Saimiri sciureus, and Cebus albifrons. The two callitrichid species show a
relatively small amount of variation in the degree of sexual dimorphism among the
different dimensions. Variation is considerably higher in the two cebid species
as reflected by a mosaic pattern of sexual dimorphisms with males being
significantly larger than females in some dimensions, and females significantly
larger than males in others. In dimensions of the pectoral girdle and limb bones,
males and females in each of the two cebid species are essentially scaled
versions of each other, with males being peramorphic compared to females. This
pattern is primarily the result of time hypermorphosis, i.e. an extension of the 
growth period in time in males. Rate hypermorphosis, i.e. an increase in the rate
of growth in time in males, appears to play an additional role, however, in S.
sciureus. By contrast, in dimensions of the true pelvis, sex differences in shape
are dissociated from those in size. They are interpreted as the result of
acceleration, i.e. increase in rate of shape change in females, as an adaptation 
to obstetrical functions. Interspecific analyses indicate positive allometry of
mean degree of postcranial dimorphism with respect to body size. This coincides
with previous findings by Leutenegger and Cheverud [1982, 1985] on the scaling of
sexual dimorphism in body weight and canine size, and thus supports their model
which posits selection on body size as the prime mover for the evolution of
sexual dimorphism.

DOI: 10.1159/000156199 
PMID: 4043875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

