

4621. Physiol Behav. 1985 Jan;34(1):123-8.

Effects of oestradiol 17B, progesterone and testosterone upon proceptivity and
receptivity in ovariectomized common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Kendrick KM, Dixson AF.

The sexual behaviour of eight pairs of marmosets was observed during blocks of 30
minute tests after the ovariectomized female partners were treated with
physiological doses of testosterone, oestradiol and progesterone. The effects of 
an intra-vaginal progesterone treatment were also investigated. Pre-ovulatory
levels of oestradiol significantly increased the females' proceptive and
receptive tongue-flicking displays and reduced the percentage of mounts refused. 
Mid-luteal levels of progesterone, by comparison, virtually abolished proceptive 
and receptive tongue-flicking and significantly increased mount refusals.
Testosterone treatment was without effect. Vaginal application of progesterone
unlike subcutaneous implantation of the hormone did not significantly alter the
females' sexual behaviour. These results indicate that central actions of
oestradiol and progesterone upon proceptivity and receptivity may occur in this
primate, although further research using intra-cranial implants of these steroids
is required to test this hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(85)90089-7 
PMID: 4034688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4622. J Reprod Fertil. 1985 Jan;73(1):133-8.

Cloprostenol-induced luteolysis in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Summers PM, Wennink CJ, Hodges JK.

A single intramuscular injection of 0.5 micrograms cloprostenol was not
luteolytic on Day 6 or 7 of the ovarian cycle (N = 3), but was luteolytic in some
animals (3/5) on Day 8 and 9 and luteolytic in all 23 animals treated between
Days 10 and 17 of the ovarian cycle, and in 7 animals treated between Days 19 and
43 of pregnancy. Luteal function was monitored by measurement of progesterone in 
peripheral blood using a simple and rapid non-extraction assay. There was a
dramatic fall in peripheral blood progesterone to less than 10 ng/ml within 24 h 
of cloprostenol injection; progesterone remained at this low level until the day 
after post-treatment ovulation. The interval from cloprostenol injection to
ovulation in animals treated between Days 8 and 17 was 10.7 +/- 0.3 days. A
similar interval was found in pregnant animals. Embryos recovered from the uterus
after cloprostenol treatment were morphologically normal (23/24).

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0730133 
PMID: 3968650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

