

4622. J Reprod Fertil. 1985 Jan;73(1):133-8.

Cloprostenol-induced luteolysis in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Summers PM, Wennink CJ, Hodges JK.

A single intramuscular injection of 0.5 micrograms cloprostenol was not
luteolytic on Day 6 or 7 of the ovarian cycle (N = 3), but was luteolytic in some
animals (3/5) on Day 8 and 9 and luteolytic in all 23 animals treated between
Days 10 and 17 of the ovarian cycle, and in 7 animals treated between Days 19 and
43 of pregnancy. Luteal function was monitored by measurement of progesterone in 
peripheral blood using a simple and rapid non-extraction assay. There was a
dramatic fall in peripheral blood progesterone to less than 10 ng/ml within 24 h 
of cloprostenol injection; progesterone remained at this low level until the day 
after post-treatment ovulation. The interval from cloprostenol injection to
ovulation in animals treated between Days 8 and 17 was 10.7 +/- 0.3 days. A
similar interval was found in pregnant animals. Embryos recovered from the uterus
after cloprostenol treatment were morphologically normal (23/24).

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0730133 
PMID: 3968650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4623. Brain Behav Evol. 1985;27(2-4):93-105.

An allometric study of hippocampal components. A comparative study of the brains 
of the European hedgehog (Erinaceus europaeus), the tree shrew (Tupaia glis), and
the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

West MJ, Schwerdtfeger WK.

Brains of western European hedgehogs, common tree shrews and common marmosets
were perfused and stained according to Timm's method. The volumes of hippocampal 
components were determined with semiautomated quantitative techniques and
compared by allometric methods. The results support previous findings that the
size of the hippocampus in marmosets and tree shrews is about twice that of the
hippocampus of the European hedgehogs of the same body weight. Three hippocampal 
substructures account for most of this progression. These are the hilus, the deep
zone of the molecular layer of the area dentata, and CA1 (especially the cellular
layer) of Ammon's horn.

DOI: 10.1159/000118723 
PMID: 3939608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

