

463. Front Immunol. 2019 Jul 9;10:1339. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.01339. eCollection
2019.

The Exaptation of HERV-H: Evolutionary Analyses Reveal the Genomic Features of
Highly Transcribed Elements.

Gemmell P(1), Hein J(2), Katzourakis A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Statistics, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

HERV-H endogenous retroviruses are thought to be essential to stem cell identity 
in humans. We embrace several decades of HERV-H research in order to relate the
transcription of HERV-H loci to their genomic structure. We find that highly
transcribed HERV-H loci are younger, more fragmented, and less likely to be
present in other primate genomes. We also show that repeats in HERV-H LTRs are
correlated to where loci are transcribed: type-I LTRs associate with stem cells
while type-II repeats associate with embryonic cells. Our findings are generally 
in line with what is known about endogenous retrovirus biology but we find that
the presence of the zinc finger motif containing region of gag is positively
correlated with transcription. This leads us to suggest a possible explanation
for why an unusually large proportion of HERV-H loci have been preserved in
non-solo-LTR form.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.01339 
PMCID: PMC6629862
PMID: 31338090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. J Comp Psychol. 2020 Feb;134(1):52-70. doi: 10.1037/com0000188. Epub 2019 Jul 22.

Personality method validation in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): Getting
the best of both worlds.

Å lipogor V(1), Burkart JM(2), Martin JS(3), Bugnyar T(1), Koski SE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich.
(3)Department of Anthropology, Emory University.

Animal personality, consistent interindividual differences in behavior through
time, has been intensively studied across animal taxa and particularly in
nonhuman primates. Two different methods have been used to study personality:
questionnaires filled out by trusted raters, following the research tradition in 
human personality psychology, and behavioral observations or testing, based on
the behavioral ecology research tradition. Systematic research of cross-method
validity has, however, brought equivocal results. Here we report a systematic
method comparison with strict validation criteria in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). We compared questionnaire data, observational behavioral data, and
experimentally assessed behavioral data independently collected in two different 
research laboratories and across two years. Notably, we constructed a priori
predictions on the degree and direction of correlations between the
questionnaire-derived constructs and behaviorally derived constructs/variables.
Convergent validity of the constructs/variables was present but was not found in 
both laboratories for any of the constructs. Discriminant validity was found to
some degree for all constructs in both laboratories, with important exceptions.
It seems that marmoset personality structure obtained with descriptor ratings
does not consistently capture the predicted behavioral variables. Our finding
that these two methods do not quite reach common ground thus urges caution in the
choice of the suitable methods to study personality in nonhuman primates. We
discuss the directions to which animal personality research should go so that it 
can get the "best of both worlds." (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2020 APA, all
rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000188 
PMID: 31328951  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

