

4634. Acta Anat (Basel). 1985;121(1):53-8.

Distribution of parasympathetic motoneurones in the oculomotor complex
innervating the ciliary ganglion in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Clarke RJ, Coimbra CJ, Al√©ssio ML.

Parasympathetic motoneurones in the oculomotor complex which innervate the
ciliary ganglion were identified using the horseradish peroxidase (HRP)
retrograde axonal tracer technique. The ciliary ganglion was located behind the
eye by a lateral orbital approach and injected with HRP pellets mounted on the
tips of microelectrodes. Most of the labelled cells were distributed throughout
the whole Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW). Outside the EW, only a small number of
labelled cells were found, and most of these were located in the median zone
ventral to the EW. There was no evidence of a division of the EW into rostral and
posterior subnuclei, nor for separate cell populations in the EW and the anterior
median nucleus (AM), respectively. At rostral levels labelled cells were confined
to the EW with no overlap into the AM. In contrast to most previous studies no
labelled cells were found in the AM. The possible physiological functions of the 
EW and the ventral components of the EW are discussed.

DOI: 10.1159/000145942 
PMID: 3918402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4635. Gastroenterology. 1985 Jan;88(1 Pt 1):20-5.

Colonic mucin composition in primates. Selective alterations associated with
spontaneous colitis in the cotton-top tamarin.

Podolsky DK, Madara JL, King N, Sehgal P, Moore R, Winter HS.

Heterogeneity of colonic mucin glycoprotein was examined in rectal mucosal biopsy
specimens from a variety of primate species (Saguinus oedipus, n = 18; Macaca
mulatta, n = 2; Macaca fascicularis, n = 2; Aotus trivirgatus, n = 2; Saimiri
sciureus, n = 2; and Callithrix jacchus, n = 2). After initial separation of
radiolabeled mucin and nonmucin glycoproteins solubilized from mucosal biopsy
specimens, at least five labeled mucin components were found in monkey rectal
mucosa in contrast to the six mucin fractions observed in the human colon.
Although primates consistently lacked the earliest eluting component present in
human colonic mucin, other mucin components cochromatographed with comparable
fractions previously identified in human colonic biopsy specimens. The relative
proportions of each fraction were consistent throughout all species except the
cotton-top tamarin (S. oedipus), an animal that develops a chronic colitis. The
cotton-top tamarin was found to have a markedly reduced amount of one mucin
component (IV) in a manner analogous to the reduction in a human mucin fraction
previously noted in patients with ulcerative colitis. Sequential evaluation of
mucin profiles in cotton-top tamarins (n = 12) treated with sulfasalazine (50
mg/kg X day) or placebo in a 10-wk double-blind crossover study demonstrated the 
persistence of the selective reduction in tamarin species IV unrelated to disease
activity. In contrast, the relative amount of tamarin mucin III was greater in
association with increased disease activity than that observed in association
with reduced disease activity (46% +/- 11% total mucin vs. 19% +/- 7% total mucin
posttreatment).

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(85)80127-x 
PMID: 3917260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

