

4636. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1985;18(3):373-9.

Oculomotor areas involved in the parasympathetic control of accommodation and
pupil size in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Clarke RJ, Coimbra CJ, Alessio ML.

The motoneurons of the oculomotor complex responsible for controlling
accommodation and pupil size of the marmoset were identified by injecting
horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the ciliary ganglion. The anatomical
organization of accommodation and pupil constrictor motoneurons was determined
using electrical stimulation techniques. HRP-labelled cells were found through
the whole length of the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) and also just ventral to
this nucleus in caudal sections. A projection from the antero-median nucleus to
the ciliary ganglion could not be demonstrated. Electrical stimulation data
showed that currents of less than 1 microampere applied inside the EW evoked
accommodation responses. Pupil constriction responses, on the other hand, were
evoked with weak currents at sites ventral to those in the EW generating
accommodation at caudal and central levels. It was concluded that the EW was
responsible for accommodation and areas containing HRP-labelled cells ventral to 
the caudal part of the EW were responsible for pupil constriction.


PMID: 3835987  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4637. Int J Nucl Med Biol. 1985;12(5):387-91.

The metabolism of radiohafnium in marmosets and hamsters.

Taylor DM, Seidel A, Doerfel H.

The whole body retention of 181Hf was studied in marmosets (Callithrex jacchus)
and found to be closely similar to that in rats and Chinese hamsters. Limited
tissue distribution studies suggest a higher uptake in liver and much lower
deposition in skin and muscle in the marmoset as compared to the rat or Chinese
hamster. Studies in Chinese hamsters showed that treatment with the chelating
agent diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid resulted in only a small reduction in
the whole body retention of 181Hf. The absorption of orally administered 181Hf,
in various chemical forms, was found to be between 0.04 and 0.13% of the ingested
dose and was unaffected by age between 5 and 21 months but was increased by
fasting. The measured absorption of 181Hf in Chinese hamsters and in rats was
similar to that of plutonium suggesting that radiohafnium could be used as a
surrogate for plutonium for selected studies in human volunteers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-0740(85)80009-7 
PMID: 3833824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

