

4637. Int J Nucl Med Biol. 1985;12(5):387-91.

The metabolism of radiohafnium in marmosets and hamsters.

Taylor DM, Seidel A, Doerfel H.

The whole body retention of 181Hf was studied in marmosets (Callithrex jacchus)
and found to be closely similar to that in rats and Chinese hamsters. Limited
tissue distribution studies suggest a higher uptake in liver and much lower
deposition in skin and muscle in the marmoset as compared to the rat or Chinese
hamster. Studies in Chinese hamsters showed that treatment with the chelating
agent diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid resulted in only a small reduction in
the whole body retention of 181Hf. The absorption of orally administered 181Hf,
in various chemical forms, was found to be between 0.04 and 0.13% of the ingested
dose and was unaffected by age between 5 and 21 months but was increased by
fasting. The measured absorption of 181Hf in Chinese hamsters and in rats was
similar to that of plutonium suggesting that radiohafnium could be used as a
surrogate for plutonium for selected studies in human volunteers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-0740(85)80009-7 
PMID: 3833824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4638. J Med Virol. 1985 Jan;15(1):93-100.

Attenuated Junin virus infection in Callithrix jacchus.

Avila MM, Frigerio MJ, Weber EL, Rondinone S, Samoilovich SR, Laguens RP, de
Guerrero LB, Weissenbacher MC.

Twenty marmosets, male Callithrix jacchus, were used during this study. Fifteen
of the marmosets were inoculated with 5,000 TCID50 of the attenuated XJC13 strain
of Junin virus by intramuscular route and five were left as uninoculated
controls. Animals were observed for a 420-day period. In order to carry out
virologic, hematologic, serologic, and histologic studies the animals were bled
and/or killed at different days post infection(pi). Results obtained showed that 
the attenuated strain produced an infection with no mortality or signs of
illness. There was only a slight loss of weight at 18-40 days pi, which was soon 
recovered. Viremia was present from day 6 to 22, titers peaking at 4.0 log. Viral
spread was limited to the lungs, spleen, lymph nodes, and bone marrow in the
animal killed on day 14. No virus was found in the organs of the animal killed on
day 23, and neither hematologic alterations nor pathologic lesions were seen in
these monkeys except for ganglionar hypertrophy with immunoblast proliferation.
Antigen was detected by immunofluorescence (IF) in lymph nodes, spleen, adrenals,
lungs and brain. Neutralizing antibodies were detected from the third week
onward. Protection conferred by the XJC13 strain proved effective when
XJC13-inoculated monkeys were challenged with 1,000 TCID50 of the pathogenic XJ
strain at days 60 or 380 pi, while normal controls died. When viral persistence
was searched for on days 370, 390, and 420 pi, no infectious virus was detected, 
but viral antigen was seen in certain organs, which, however, lacked tissue
damage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890150112 
PMID: 2981980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

