

4638. J Med Virol. 1985 Jan;15(1):93-100.

Attenuated Junin virus infection in Callithrix jacchus.

Avila MM, Frigerio MJ, Weber EL, Rondinone S, Samoilovich SR, Laguens RP, de
Guerrero LB, Weissenbacher MC.

Twenty marmosets, male Callithrix jacchus, were used during this study. Fifteen
of the marmosets were inoculated with 5,000 TCID50 of the attenuated XJC13 strain
of Junin virus by intramuscular route and five were left as uninoculated
controls. Animals were observed for a 420-day period. In order to carry out
virologic, hematologic, serologic, and histologic studies the animals were bled
and/or killed at different days post infection(pi). Results obtained showed that 
the attenuated strain produced an infection with no mortality or signs of
illness. There was only a slight loss of weight at 18-40 days pi, which was soon 
recovered. Viremia was present from day 6 to 22, titers peaking at 4.0 log. Viral
spread was limited to the lungs, spleen, lymph nodes, and bone marrow in the
animal killed on day 14. No virus was found in the organs of the animal killed on
day 23, and neither hematologic alterations nor pathologic lesions were seen in
these monkeys except for ganglionar hypertrophy with immunoblast proliferation.
Antigen was detected by immunofluorescence (IF) in lymph nodes, spleen, adrenals,
lungs and brain. Neutralizing antibodies were detected from the third week
onward. Protection conferred by the XJC13 strain proved effective when
XJC13-inoculated monkeys were challenged with 1,000 TCID50 of the pathogenic XJ
strain at days 60 or 380 pi, while normal controls died. When viral persistence
was searched for on days 370, 390, and 420 pi, no infectious virus was detected, 
but viral antigen was seen in certain organs, which, however, lacked tissue
damage.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890150112 
PMID: 2981980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4639. Comp Biochem Physiol A Comp Physiol. 1985;81(3):683-6.

Thermogenic capacity and brown adipose tissue activity in the common marmoset.

Rothwell NJ, Stock MJ.

Resting oxygen consumption was measured in anaesthetized male and female common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) at 29 degrees C. Injection of noradrenaline caused
a marked increase in oxygen consumption (63%), but this response was lower in
males. Large deposits (750 mg) of brown adipose tissue (BAT) were dissected from 
the cervical, subscapular, axillary and perirenal areas. High levels of guanosine
diphosphate binding to isolated brown fat mitochondria were observed, indicating 
that the thermogenic proton conductance pathway is very active in brown fat from 
the marmoset. High levels of brown adipose tissue thermogenesis in these animals 
may be related to a requirement for diet-induced thermogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(85)91047-3 
PMID: 2863059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

