

4642. J Comp Neurol. 1984 Dec 10;230(3):311-36.

Interhemispheric connections of visual cortex of owl monkeys (Aotus trivirgatus),
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and galagos (Galago crassicaudatus).

Cusick CG, Gould HJ 3rd, Kaas JH.

Interhemispheric connections of visual cortex were studied in owl monkeys,
marmosets, and galagos after multiple injections of horseradish peroxidase into
one cerebral hemisphere. Areal patterns of connections were revealed in sections 
of cortex that was flattened and cut parallel to the surface. Results were
related to the locations of known visual areas, especially in owl monkeys, in
which more visual areas have been established. The connection patterns in owl
monkeys and marmosets are very similar, suggesting that the organization of
visual cortex differs little in these two New World simians. Galagos have a
basically similar pattern, but the connections are more widespread. In all three 
primates, connections are not restricted to cortex representing the line of
decussation of the retina, and even striate cortex has connections displaced from
the border. These connections extend up to 2 mm into area 17 in owl monkeys, and 
they are most extensive in galagos, where they form foci that are coextensive
with regions of high cytochrome oxidase activity. Connections are concentrated in
the caudal half of area 18, but protrusions of connections cross of the width of 
the field. The middle temporal visual area (MT) has unevenly distributed
connections throughout, with some increase in density along the border. The
dorsomedial visual area (DM) of owl monkeys has connections restricted to the
rostral border, and a similar region of sparse connections identifies the
probable location of DM in marmosets and galagos. Caudal parts of the
dorsolateral visual area (DL) of owl monkeys have dense interhemispheric
connections. Other visual areas are characterized by unevenly distributed clumps 
of connections, suggesting that functions are not uniformly distributed, and that
semiregular processing modules exist. The results indicate that most extrastriate
visual neurons are subject to interhemispheric influences and support the
conclusion that callosal connections are functionally heterogeneous.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902300302 
PMID: 6520237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4643. J Hypertens Suppl. 1984 Dec;2(2):S25-30.

The role of the renin-angiotensin system in blood pressure regulation in
normotensive animals and man.

Corvol P, Michel JB, Evin G, Gardes J, Bensala-Alaoui A, MÃ©nard J.

The role of the renin-angiotensin system in the control of blood pressure in
normal rodents, primates and man has been evaluated using inhibitors which block 
the system at various stages. Renin plays a major role in the maintenance of
blood pressure under volume depletion. In subjects with a normal salt intake, the
contribution of the renin-angiotensin system in maintaining blood pressure levels
can be evaluated using angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. The
contribution of the renin-angiotensin system can now be evaluated more closely
following the development of new substances which block the renin-angiotensinogen
reaction. Available data strongly suggest that renin contributes to the
maintenance of blood pressure levels in subjects with a normal salt intake,
although to a lesser degree than in subjects on a low sodium intake. The
renin-angiotensin system plays a role in the regulation of blood pressure levels 
in normal experimental animals and man--its importance depending on the state of 
sodium balance.


PMID: 6100873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

