

4644. J Infect Dis. 1984 Dec;150(6):878-82.

Infectious mononucleosis-like response in common marmosets infected with
Epstein-Barr virus.

Wedderburn N, Edwards JM, Desgranges C, Fontaine C, Cohen B, de Th√© G.

Callithrix jacchus marmosets infected with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) with or
without concurrent treatment with cyclosporin A (CySA) remained healthy. Five
marmosets given virus alone developed lymphocytosis and heterophile antibody.
Antibody to EBV capsid antigens (VCA) appeared and remained at titers of
1:40-1:80 from 15 weeks onward. Two animals produced antibody to the R component 
of early antigens (EA) from six weeks onward. Five CySA-treated EBV-infected
marmosets showed no increase in total lymphocyte counts; only two developed
heterophile antibody. Four developed persistent antibody to the EA-R component.
All developed antibody to VCA, and mean titers were higher than in animals given 
EBV alone. Antibody to VCA also appeared in animals given EBV into Waldeyer's
ring. Because these responses to EBV resemble those of humans, C. jacchus may
provide a useful model for exploring the potential of cofactors in inducing
EBV-associated malignancy.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/150.6.878 
PMID: 6094675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4645. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1984 Nov 13;307(1131):63-72.

The vaccine potential of cell surface glycoproteins from Trypanosoma cruzi.

Scott MT, Neal RA.

An experimental Trypanosoma cruzi 90 kDa cell surface glycoprotein (GP90)
vaccine, previously shown to be protective in mice is similarly effective in
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus). Protection in the mouse is completely
dependent on the adjuvant saponin and immunological studies confirm that GP90 is 
intrisically poorly immunogenic. Both specific antibody and cell mediated
immunity are potentiated strongly by saponin and the resulting protective
immunity is long lasting (six months). It is effective against the naturally
infective, insect-metacyclic, form and a range of heterologous T. cruzi strains
including a low mouse passage human isolate. Sterile immunity (that is, complete 
elimination of parasites) was not however, achieved. Evidence is presented that
the levels of tissue damage associated with acute infection, as measured by
production of auto anti-tissue immunoglobulins, are significantly reduced in
GP90-immunized mice. These and other results are discussed in terms of the
desired characteristics for vaccine use of T. cruzi antigens.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1984.0109 
PMID: 6151689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

