

4645. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1984 Nov 13;307(1131):63-72.

The vaccine potential of cell surface glycoproteins from Trypanosoma cruzi.

Scott MT, Neal RA.

An experimental Trypanosoma cruzi 90 kDa cell surface glycoprotein (GP90)
vaccine, previously shown to be protective in mice is similarly effective in
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus). Protection in the mouse is completely
dependent on the adjuvant saponin and immunological studies confirm that GP90 is 
intrisically poorly immunogenic. Both specific antibody and cell mediated
immunity are potentiated strongly by saponin and the resulting protective
immunity is long lasting (six months). It is effective against the naturally
infective, insect-metacyclic, form and a range of heterologous T. cruzi strains
including a low mouse passage human isolate. Sterile immunity (that is, complete 
elimination of parasites) was not however, achieved. Evidence is presented that
the levels of tissue damage associated with acute infection, as measured by
production of auto anti-tissue immunoglobulins, are significantly reduced in
GP90-immunized mice. These and other results are discussed in terms of the
desired characteristics for vaccine use of T. cruzi antigens.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1984.0109 
PMID: 6151689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4646. Mutat Res. 1984 Nov;129(2):231-4.

X-ray-induced translocations in marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) stem-cell
spermatogonia.

van Buul PP.

The induction of reciprocal translocations in spermatogonial stem cells of
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) was studied after irradiation with different doses
of X-rays (50, 100 and 200 rad) via spermatocyte analysis many cell generations
later. The obtained results show a dose-effect relationship with clear saturation
effects at 200 rad. The recorded frequencies of translocations were much lower
than those reported for closely related marmosets (Saguinus fuscicollis and
Saguinus oepidus). Possible reasons for this difference are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0027-5107(84)90155-6 
PMID: 6504061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

