

4650. Lab Anim. 1984 Oct;18(4):351-8.

A survey of the pathology of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) under experiment.

Tucker MJ.

A survey of the pathology of 567 laboratory-bred cotton-eared marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) is presented. There were few significant pathological
changes in animals used in studies up to 6 months in duration, suggesting that
the marmoset can be a useful non-human primate species for routine toxicology.
The most common pathological changes encountered were chronic colitis, chronic
thyroiditis and interstitial mononuclear infiltration in the kidney. No internal 
parasites were encountered, nor were any viral or bacterial diseases identified. 
Fungal disease was confined to a few cases of oesophageal mycoses. In a long term
study a variety of pathological changes have been observed, including a 'wasting'
syndrome, not related to skeletal muscle myopathy, with atrophy of the
gastrointestinal tract, salivary glands and gonads, haemosiderosis and fatty
change in the liver and osteoporosis. It is suggested that these changes may be
related to protein deficiency and that the nutritional requirements of the
marmoset require further investigation.

DOI: 10.1258/002367784780865397 
PMID: 6439947  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4651. J Neurol Sci. 1984 Oct;66(1):1-14.

Chronic inflammatory polyneuropathy. Reduction of nerve conduction velocities in 
monkeys by systemic passive transfer of immunoglobulin G.

Heininger K, Liebert UG, Toyka KV, Haneveld FT, Schwendemann G, Kolb-Bachofen V, 
Ross HG, Cleveland S, Besinger UA, Gibbels E, et al.

In chronic (relapsing) inflammatory polyneuropathy (CRIP), successful treatment
with plasma exchange has led to the concept of pathogenic humoral factors. In 6
patients with CRIP, 5 of whom improved after plasma exchange, the potential
pathogenic role of circulating immunoglobulin (Ig) fractions was tested by
applying the systemic passive transfer model to marmoset monkeys. After
continuous treatment with intramuscular injections for 2-8 weeks, monkeys
injected with the crude immunoglobulin fractions or with purified IgG from 5 of
the 6 patients showed a significant and partially reversible reduction of the
motor nerve conduction velocity (mean 34%, P less than 0.001) when compared with 
pre-treatment values. In control animals the reduction was 4%. Morphological
examination revealed only minor ultrastructural changes of the myelin sheath.
Immunocytochemistry revealed that human IgG was able to cross the blood-nerve
barrier. It is concluded that the circulating IgG-fraction of patients with CRIP 
contains a factor that may contribute to the disordered nerve function after
crossing the blood-nerve barrier. It may be the removal of this particular factor
which is responsible for the rapid recovery of nerve conduction in patients after
plasma exchange.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(84)90136-9 
PMID: 6394721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

