

4651. J Neurol Sci. 1984 Oct;66(1):1-14.

Chronic inflammatory polyneuropathy. Reduction of nerve conduction velocities in 
monkeys by systemic passive transfer of immunoglobulin G.

Heininger K, Liebert UG, Toyka KV, Haneveld FT, Schwendemann G, Kolb-Bachofen V, 
Ross HG, Cleveland S, Besinger UA, Gibbels E, et al.

In chronic (relapsing) inflammatory polyneuropathy (CRIP), successful treatment
with plasma exchange has led to the concept of pathogenic humoral factors. In 6
patients with CRIP, 5 of whom improved after plasma exchange, the potential
pathogenic role of circulating immunoglobulin (Ig) fractions was tested by
applying the systemic passive transfer model to marmoset monkeys. After
continuous treatment with intramuscular injections for 2-8 weeks, monkeys
injected with the crude immunoglobulin fractions or with purified IgG from 5 of
the 6 patients showed a significant and partially reversible reduction of the
motor nerve conduction velocity (mean 34%, P less than 0.001) when compared with 
pre-treatment values. In control animals the reduction was 4%. Morphological
examination revealed only minor ultrastructural changes of the myelin sheath.
Immunocytochemistry revealed that human IgG was able to cross the blood-nerve
barrier. It is concluded that the circulating IgG-fraction of patients with CRIP 
contains a factor that may contribute to the disordered nerve function after
crossing the blood-nerve barrier. It may be the removal of this particular factor
which is responsible for the rapid recovery of nerve conduction in patients after
plasma exchange.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(84)90136-9 
PMID: 6394721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4652. J Endocrinol. 1984 Oct;103(1):17-24.

Ovulation in the marmoset monkey: endocrinology, prediction and detection.

Harlow CR, Hearn JP, Hodges JK.

Circulating progesterone, oestrogens and LH were measured in female marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) over the periovulatory period. Progesterone concentrations
increased in all animals within 1 day of the estimated day of ovulation,
confirming the usefulness of this hormone for retrospective detection of
ovulation. Oestradiol-17 beta and LH both showed a preovulatory rise, but due to 
the large quantity of plasma required (oestradiol: 0.2 ml) and the length of time
taken for the assay (LH: 2-3 days), measurement of these hormones is not
practical for the prediction of ovulation. There were no preovulatory changes in 
unconjugated oestrone, but a rise in total (i.e. conjugated plus unconjugated)
oestrone was used to time the collection of recently ovulated oocytes. Levels of 
oestrone-3-sulphate showed an increase at least 1 day before the expected day of 
ovulation in four out of five animals. This preovulatory rise can be measured
easily by a rapid direct assay, thereby providing a practical method for
predicting ovulation in this species.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1030017 
PMID: 6090570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

