

4652. J Endocrinol. 1984 Oct;103(1):17-24.

Ovulation in the marmoset monkey: endocrinology, prediction and detection.

Harlow CR, Hearn JP, Hodges JK.

Circulating progesterone, oestrogens and LH were measured in female marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) over the periovulatory period. Progesterone concentrations
increased in all animals within 1 day of the estimated day of ovulation,
confirming the usefulness of this hormone for retrospective detection of
ovulation. Oestradiol-17 beta and LH both showed a preovulatory rise, but due to 
the large quantity of plasma required (oestradiol: 0.2 ml) and the length of time
taken for the assay (LH: 2-3 days), measurement of these hormones is not
practical for the prediction of ovulation. There were no preovulatory changes in 
unconjugated oestrone, but a rise in total (i.e. conjugated plus unconjugated)
oestrone was used to time the collection of recently ovulated oocytes. Levels of 
oestrone-3-sulphate showed an increase at least 1 day before the expected day of 
ovulation in four out of five animals. This preovulatory rise can be measured
easily by a rapid direct assay, thereby providing a practical method for
predicting ovulation in this species.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1030017 
PMID: 6090570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4653. Neurosci Lett. 1984 Sep 7;50(1-3):85-90.

1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced parkinsonism in the common
marmoset.

Jenner P, Rupniak NM, Rose S, Kelly E, Kilpatrick G, Lees A, Marsden CD.

The administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (1-4
mg/kg i.p.) for 4 days induced dose-dependent parkinsonism in the common marmoset
within 48 h. MPTP produced profound akinesia, rigidity of the trunk and limbs,
postural abnormalities, loss of vocalization and, in some cases, postural tremor.
In a single animal the administration of L-DOPA in conjunction with a peripheral 
decarboxylase inhibitor, reversed the parkinsonian symptoms. Subsequent
biochemical analysis showed a profound loss of dopamine and [3H]dopamine uptake
in the caudate-putamen, but no change in specific [3H]spiperone binding.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(84)90467-1 
PMID: 6436758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

