

4653. Neurosci Lett. 1984 Sep 7;50(1-3):85-90.

1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced parkinsonism in the common
marmoset.

Jenner P, Rupniak NM, Rose S, Kelly E, Kilpatrick G, Lees A, Marsden CD.

The administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (1-4
mg/kg i.p.) for 4 days induced dose-dependent parkinsonism in the common marmoset
within 48 h. MPTP produced profound akinesia, rigidity of the trunk and limbs,
postural abnormalities, loss of vocalization and, in some cases, postural tremor.
In a single animal the administration of L-DOPA in conjunction with a peripheral 
decarboxylase inhibitor, reversed the parkinsonian symptoms. Subsequent
biochemical analysis showed a profound loss of dopamine and [3H]dopamine uptake
in the caudate-putamen, but no change in specific [3H]spiperone binding.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(84)90467-1 
PMID: 6436758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4654. Anat Rec. 1984 Sep;210(1):87-100.

Endocrine cell populations in the colon and rectum of cat, dog, and monkey: fine 
structure, immunocytochemistry, and distribution.

Peranzi G, Lehy T.

Comparative and quantitative ultrastructural studies of endocrine cells from the 
large bowel of European cat, beagle dog, and the monkey Callitrix jacchus were
performed. The cat and monkey exhibited a roughly similar distribution of colonic
endocrine cells with a frequency increasing toward the distal. On the contrary,
the highest endocrine cell frequency in the dog colon was in the cecum. In the
dog and monkey, enterochromaffin (EC) cells were predominant in all segments. In 
the cat, non-EC cells were predominant in the proximal colon. For each colonic
segment, relative percentages of EC and non-EC cells appeared on the whole to be 
roughly stable between individuals of the same species. Three subtypes of EC
cells were distinguished in each species. Non-EC cells were characterized by
large variation in size and electron densities of their granules: Mean granule
size per cell extended from 210 to 850 nm in cat, 310 to 770 nm in dog, and 130
to 470 nm in monkey. In each species, statistical analyses indicated that the
non-EC cell population was composed of two or more subpopulations. Some
similarities were found between colonic endocrine cells of the monkey and man,
whereas obvious differences appeared between the two carnivorous mammals.
Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated the presence of cells containing
enteroglucagon, somatostatin, or a pancreatic polypeptidelike substance in the
colon of the monkey and the rectum of the three mammals. Correlative
immunocytochemical and ultrastructural studies showed that the three kinds of
immunostained endocrine non-EC cells in each species had rather round granules,
with great electron densities. Some subpopulations, morphologically
distinguished, did not react to any of the antisera used. This suggests either
the existence of secretory cycle in some endocrine cells or, perhaps, the
presence of peptides still unknown in this part of the gut.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1092100112 
PMID: 6486484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

