

4654. Anat Rec. 1984 Sep;210(1):87-100.

Endocrine cell populations in the colon and rectum of cat, dog, and monkey: fine 
structure, immunocytochemistry, and distribution.

Peranzi G, Lehy T.

Comparative and quantitative ultrastructural studies of endocrine cells from the 
large bowel of European cat, beagle dog, and the monkey Callitrix jacchus were
performed. The cat and monkey exhibited a roughly similar distribution of colonic
endocrine cells with a frequency increasing toward the distal. On the contrary,
the highest endocrine cell frequency in the dog colon was in the cecum. In the
dog and monkey, enterochromaffin (EC) cells were predominant in all segments. In 
the cat, non-EC cells were predominant in the proximal colon. For each colonic
segment, relative percentages of EC and non-EC cells appeared on the whole to be 
roughly stable between individuals of the same species. Three subtypes of EC
cells were distinguished in each species. Non-EC cells were characterized by
large variation in size and electron densities of their granules: Mean granule
size per cell extended from 210 to 850 nm in cat, 310 to 770 nm in dog, and 130
to 470 nm in monkey. In each species, statistical analyses indicated that the
non-EC cell population was composed of two or more subpopulations. Some
similarities were found between colonic endocrine cells of the monkey and man,
whereas obvious differences appeared between the two carnivorous mammals.
Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated the presence of cells containing
enteroglucagon, somatostatin, or a pancreatic polypeptidelike substance in the
colon of the monkey and the rectum of the three mammals. Correlative
immunocytochemical and ultrastructural studies showed that the three kinds of
immunostained endocrine non-EC cells in each species had rather round granules,
with great electron densities. Some subpopulations, morphologically
distinguished, did not react to any of the antisera used. This suggests either
the existence of secretory cycle in some endocrine cells or, perhaps, the
presence of peptides still unknown in this part of the gut.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1092100112 
PMID: 6486484  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4655. Leber Magen Darm. 1984 Sep;14(5):223-31.

[Morphologic findings in experimental non-A, non-B hepatitis].

[Article in German]

Dienes HP.

A report is given about light and electron microscopy in primates with
experimental hepatitis non-A-non-B; own data are presented as well as data from
the literature. Morphological changes after infection with GB, NANB and Delta-AG 
are discussed. Light microscopy in these animal models shows a similar pattern of
lesions as can be found in human hepatitis; however, in these models
ultrastructural changes have been observed, whose specifity has not yet been
confirmed.


PMID: 6436605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

