

4656. Neurosci Lett. 1984 Aug 24;49(1-2):7-12.

Identification of different subpopulations of neostriatal neurones projecting to 
globus pallidus or substantia nigra in the monkey: a retrograde fluorescence
double-labelling study.

FÃ©ger J, Crossman AR.

Fluorescent tracers (Nuclear Yellow, True Blue, Fast Blue) were injected, in
various combinations, into the globus pallidus and substantia nigra in three
marmosets. Examination of perikarya in the ipsilateral neostriatum, well removed 
from pallidal injection sites, revealed that the predominant pattern was of
single-labelled cells, retrogradely labelled from either the globus pallidus or
substantia nigra. It is suggested, on the basis of this evidence and data
previously available, that the striatum contains at least three types of efferent
neurones, one projecting exclusively to the globus pallidus, one projecting
exclusively to the substantia nigra, and another projecting to both structures.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(84)90127-7 
PMID: 6493600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4657. Brain Res. 1984 Aug 6;308(1):109-21.

Selective focal inhibition of brain protein synthesis during generalized
bicuculline seizures in newborn marmoset monkeys.

Dwyer BE, Wasterlain CG.

Generalized epileptic seizures, induced in 5-7 day-old marmoset monkeys with
bicuculline (5 mg/kg) produce striking focal disruption of protein synthesis.
Inhibition of protein synthesis was most severe in the neocortex and hippocampus 
but was completely absent in the lateral geniculate nuclei and in the optic
tract. In the cortex, regions in which protein synthesis was most severely
reduced alternated with areas in which it was relatively preserved creating a
columnar pattern. With few exceptions, subcortical gray matter structures in the 
forebrain and brainstem were less severely affected than the cortex. In the
cerebellum, seizures appeared to have little effect on the proliferating external
granular layer while the closely adjacent internal granular layer showed
clear-cut inhibition. The focal nature of protein synthesis inhibition in brain
during seizures suggests that the systemic effects of convulsions (e.g.
hypoxemia, acidosis or changes in arterial blood pressure) are not a major
factor. More likely, protein synthesis inhibition is related to the extent to
which various cerebral structures participate in seizure activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(84)90922-3 
PMID: 6478197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

