

4664. Lab Anim Sci. 1984 Jun;34(3):272-5.

Reproductive performance of three species of Callitrichidae.

Tardif SD, Richter CB, Carson RL.

The reproductive performance of three species of Callitrichidae housed under
identical conditions, including relatively spacious caging and visual screening, 
was compared. The three species were Callithrix jacchus, Saguinus fuscicollis,
and Saguinus oedipus. Callithrix jacchus was the most reliable breeder, with the 
lowest percentage of stillborn and the highest post-weaning survival. While the
reproductive performance of S oedipus was better than that generally reported for
other colonies, the reproductive performance of the Saguinus species was still
poorer than that of C jacchus. The two Saguinus species did not differ
significantly in either percentage of stillborn or post-weaning survival. None of
the species showed infertility due to lactation, but the mean inter-birth
interval was significantly longer for S oedipus than for either C jacchus or S
fuscicollis.


PMID: 6431191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4665. J Endocrinol. 1984 May;101(2):155-62.

Ovariectomy does not abolish proceptive behaviour cyclicity in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kendrick KM, Dixson AF.

Unlike in other non-human primates, ovariectomy of the female marmoset did not
alter heterosexual interactions. Proceptive behaviour bouts retained the same
cyclicity, duration and frequency within tests as during the ovarian cycle.
Significant rises in plasma levels of cortisol, progesterone, oestrone and
testosterone were found during these proceptive behaviour bouts and in cortisol, 
progesterone and oestrone at their onset. Results suggest a role for
adrenocortical steroids in both maintaining female sexuality and regulating its
cyclicity during ovarian cycles in this primate.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1010155 
PMID: 6425446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

