

4665. J Endocrinol. 1984 May;101(2):155-62.

Ovariectomy does not abolish proceptive behaviour cyclicity in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kendrick KM, Dixson AF.

Unlike in other non-human primates, ovariectomy of the female marmoset did not
alter heterosexual interactions. Proceptive behaviour bouts retained the same
cyclicity, duration and frequency within tests as during the ovarian cycle.
Significant rises in plasma levels of cortisol, progesterone, oestrone and
testosterone were found during these proceptive behaviour bouts and in cortisol, 
progesterone and oestrone at their onset. Results suggest a role for
adrenocortical steroids in both maintaining female sexuality and regulating its
cyclicity during ovarian cycles in this primate.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1010155 
PMID: 6425446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4666. Behav Processes. 1984 Apr;9(2-3):261-9. doi: 10.1016/0376-6357(84)90046-9.

Injection of a neuroleptic produces changes in caregiver-infant interactions in
marmosets.

Locke-Haydon J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, The Open University, Walton Hall, Milton Keynes, U.K.

The effects of injecting a low dose of the neuroleptic fluphenazine decanoate
(MODECATE) on the responsiveness of family members (fathers and siblings) to
infant common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus ) are described. Tentative
conclusions are that the overall effect of the injection is to make fathers and
siblings more 'passive' and unresponsive, though the detailed effects are complex
and not all interactions with infants are affected. Drugged fathers spend less
time grooming infants, pick them up more infrequently, and approach and leave
them less often than undrugged fathers. Drugged siblings spend less time playing 
with infants, ignore them more often, and approach and leave them less often than
undrugged siblings. These results indicate the need for studies of the effects of
drugs on normal behaviours as well as studies of their side-effects or
therapeutic efficacy.

Copyright Â© 1984. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/0376-6357(84)90046-9 
PMID: 24896522 

