

4666. Behav Processes. 1984 Apr;9(2-3):261-9. doi: 10.1016/0376-6357(84)90046-9.

Injection of a neuroleptic produces changes in caregiver-infant interactions in
marmosets.

Locke-Haydon J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, The Open University, Walton Hall, Milton Keynes, U.K.

The effects of injecting a low dose of the neuroleptic fluphenazine decanoate
(MODECATE) on the responsiveness of family members (fathers and siblings) to
infant common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus ) are described. Tentative
conclusions are that the overall effect of the injection is to make fathers and
siblings more 'passive' and unresponsive, though the detailed effects are complex
and not all interactions with infants are affected. Drugged fathers spend less
time grooming infants, pick them up more infrequently, and approach and leave
them less often than undrugged fathers. Drugged siblings spend less time playing 
with infants, ignore them more often, and approach and leave them less often than
undrugged siblings. These results indicate the need for studies of the effects of
drugs on normal behaviours as well as studies of their side-effects or
therapeutic efficacy.

Copyright Â© 1984. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/0376-6357(84)90046-9 
PMID: 24896522 


4667. Acta Pharmacol Toxicol (Copenh). 1984 Apr;54(4):311-20.

Embryotoxicity of arsenite and arsenate: distribution in pregnant mice and
monkeys and effects on embryonic cells in vitro.

Lindgren A, Danielsson BR, Dencker L, Vahter M.

The distribution of 74As-labelled arsenate and arsenite in pregnant mice and a
monkey has been studied by autoradiography and gamma counting of isolated
tissues, and their in vitro toxicity to a chondrogenic system has been
investigated. With both arsenic forms, given as single intravenous injections to 
the mother, the 74As-arsenic appeared to pass the mouse placenta relatively free 
and approximately to the same extent. The retention time in maternal tissues
including the placenta was, however, around three times longer with arsenite than
with arsenate. In early gestation, high activity was registered in the embryonic 
neuroepithelium, which correlates well with reported CNS malformations in
rodents. In late gestation, the distribution pattern was more like that in the
adults. Accumulation in skin and squamous epithelia of the upper gastrointestinal
tract (oral cavity, oesophagus and oesophageal region of stomach) dominated the
distribution picture, especially at a long survival interval. Arsenate, but not
arsenite, showed affinity for the calcified areas of the skeleton. A marmoset
monkey in late gestation receiving arsenite showed a somewhat lower rate of
placental transfer than the mice. Skin and liver had the highest concentrations
(at 8 hrs), both in mother and foetuses. This species is known not to methylate
arsenic, resulting in stronger binding and longer retention times of arsenic as
compared with other species. The stronger binding in maternal tissues may
possibly explain the lower rate of placental transfer. Arsenite was shown to
inhibit cartilage formation in a chick limb bud mesenchymal spot culture system
(ED50 approximately 5-10 microM), while arsenate seemed to be without effect at
concentrations up to 200 microM (highest tested). Arsenate, however, showed a
potentiation of the arsenite toxicity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0773.1984.tb01936.x 
PMID: 6730986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

