

4668. Lab Anim. 1984 Apr;18(2):173-8.

Morphological assessment of testicular maturity in marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Jackson MR, Edmunds JG.

The onset of spermatogenesis in relation to age, bodyweight and testes weight in 
105 marmosets used in safety studies has been reviewed. The histological
recognition of adverse effects on spermatogenesis is an important part of these
studies and this survey indicates that male marmosets should be at least 50 weeks
and preferably 60 weeks of age if an assessment of all stages of spermatogenesis 
is required for safety evaluation.

DOI: 10.1258/002367784780891262 
PMID: 6431187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4669. Lab Anim. 1984 Apr;18(2):161-8.

The effect of haemolysis on some clinical chemistry parameters in the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Davy CW, Jackson MR, Walker JM.

The effect of haemolysis on the levels of commonly analysed plasma constituents
was investigated in the common marmoset. Results were divided into a) low levels 
of extra haemolysis (less than 2 g/l plasma haemoglobin) and b) high levels of
extra haemolysis (greater than 2 g/l plasma haemoglobin). Mean changes in plasma 
constituent levels were examined and the correlation with increased haemolysis
measured. Large changes in malate dehydrogenase and lactate dehydrogenase were
found at low levels of haemolysis. With higher levels of haemolysis there were
statistically significant changes in the levels of alanine aminotransferase,
isocitrate dehydrogenase, glutathione reductase, bilirubin, aspartate
aminotransferase and sorbitol dehydrogenase. The significance of these findings
is considered in relation to the interpretation of changes of plasma constituents
as indicators of tissue/organ damage.

DOI: 10.1258/002367784780891343 
PMID: 6431186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

