

4669. Lab Anim. 1984 Apr;18(2):161-8.

The effect of haemolysis on some clinical chemistry parameters in the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Davy CW, Jackson MR, Walker JM.

The effect of haemolysis on the levels of commonly analysed plasma constituents
was investigated in the common marmoset. Results were divided into a) low levels 
of extra haemolysis (less than 2 g/l plasma haemoglobin) and b) high levels of
extra haemolysis (greater than 2 g/l plasma haemoglobin). Mean changes in plasma 
constituent levels were examined and the correlation with increased haemolysis
measured. Large changes in malate dehydrogenase and lactate dehydrogenase were
found at low levels of haemolysis. With higher levels of haemolysis there were
statistically significant changes in the levels of alanine aminotransferase,
isocitrate dehydrogenase, glutathione reductase, bilirubin, aspartate
aminotransferase and sorbitol dehydrogenase. The significance of these findings
is considered in relation to the interpretation of changes of plasma constituents
as indicators of tissue/organ damage.

DOI: 10.1258/002367784780891343 
PMID: 6431186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4670. Lab Anim. 1984 Apr;18(2):135-42.

Reference intervals for some clinical chemical parameters in the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): effect of age and sex.

Davy CW, Jackson MR, Walker J.

Reference intervals for some clinical chemistry parameters in the marmoset were
calculated. The effects of age (250-300 days compared with 500-550 days) and sex 
on the values found was investigated. Alkaline phosphatase levels decreased with 
age, young males having higher plasma levels than young females, but no sex
differences were discernible for older animals. Levels of gamma-glutamyl
transpeptidase and sorbitol dehydrogenase were higher in older males than in
younger females. Higher plasma iron levels were found in the males with
increasing age. Age and sex effects for protein and albumin were interactive and 
further interpretation was therefore difficult. No significant age or sex effects
were seen for cholinesterase, acetylcholinesterase, isocitrate dehydrogenase,
malate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, glutamate dehydrogenase, aspartate
amino transferase, alanine aminotransferase or bilirubin.

DOI: 10.1258/002367784780891217 
PMID: 6431185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

