

467. Elife. 2019 Jul 16;8. pii: e41853. doi: 10.7554/eLife.41853.

Vocal and locomotor coordination develops in association with the autonomic
nervous system.

Gustison ML(1), Borjon JI(1)(2), Takahashi DY(1)(2), Ghazanfar AA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, United
States.
(2)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, United States.
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University,
Princeton, United States.

In adult animals, movement and vocalizations are coordinated, sometimes
facilitating, and at other times inhibiting, each other. What is missing is how
these different domains of motor control become coordinated over the course of
development. We investigated how postural-locomotor behaviors may influence vocal
development, and the role played by physiological arousal during their
interactions. Using infant marmoset monkeys, we densely sampled vocal, postural
and locomotor behaviors and estimated arousal fluctuations from
electrocardiographic measures of heart rate. We found that vocalizations matured 
sooner than postural and locomotor skills, and that vocal-locomotor coordination 
improved with age and during elevated arousal levels. These results suggest that 
postural-locomotor maturity is not required for vocal development to occur, and
that infants gradually improve coordination between vocalizations and body
movement through a process that may be facilitated by arousal level changes.

© 2019, Gustison et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.41853 
PMCID: PMC6684270
PMID: 31310236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MG, JB, DT, AG No competing interests declared


468. Dev Psychobiol. 2020 Nov;62(7):932-940. doi: 10.1002/dev.21892. Epub 2019 Jul 9.

Vasopressin, but not oxytocin, modulates responses to infant stimuli in marmosets
providing care to dependent infants.

Taylor JH(1)(2), Carp SB(1)(2), French JA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Omaha, Nebraska.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.

In family-living species, the quality and patterning of caregiving is the product
of an individual's role within the family (mother, father, sibling) and parental 
experience, both of which interact with underlying neurobiological substrates.
Among these substrates are the nonapeptides vasopressin and oxytocin, which
modulate maternal, paternal, and alloparental care. We used a nonhuman primate
model of the "nuclear family," the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), to investigate 
relationships between caregiving experience, role within the family, and
activation of either the oxytocin or vasopressin systems in shaping
responsiveness to offspring. During two phases of offspring development (early
infancy, juvenile), mothers, fathers, and older siblings were treated with
vasopressin, oxytocin, or saline via intranasal application, and tested for
responses to infant distress stimuli in a within-subjects design. Interest in
infant stimuli was highest among marmosets that were caring for infants compared 
to those caring for juveniles, and parentally experienced marmosets were quicker 
to respond to infant stimuli than first-time caregivers. Moreover, marmosets
treated with vasopressin showed enhanced responsiveness to infant stimuli
compared to control stimuli only when caring for infants. Thus, in all classes of
marmoset caregivers, vasopressin enhances responsiveness to infant-associated
stimuli in caregivers during periods in which infant care is most crucial.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.21892 
PMCID: PMC6949433
PMID: 31290143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

