

4670. Lab Anim. 1984 Apr;18(2):135-42.

Reference intervals for some clinical chemical parameters in the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus): effect of age and sex.

Davy CW, Jackson MR, Walker J.

Reference intervals for some clinical chemistry parameters in the marmoset were
calculated. The effects of age (250-300 days compared with 500-550 days) and sex 
on the values found was investigated. Alkaline phosphatase levels decreased with 
age, young males having higher plasma levels than young females, but no sex
differences were discernible for older animals. Levels of gamma-glutamyl
transpeptidase and sorbitol dehydrogenase were higher in older males than in
younger females. Higher plasma iron levels were found in the males with
increasing age. Age and sex effects for protein and albumin were interactive and 
further interpretation was therefore difficult. No significant age or sex effects
were seen for cholinesterase, acetylcholinesterase, isocitrate dehydrogenase,
malate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, glutamate dehydrogenase, aspartate
amino transferase, alanine aminotransferase or bilirubin.

DOI: 10.1258/002367784780891217 
PMID: 6431185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4671. Lab Anim. 1984 Apr;18(2):115-8.

Canine tooth root infection as a cause of facial abscess in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Baskerville M.

Facial abscesses in a colony of common marmosets were found to be caused by
abscessation of an upper canine tooth root. Trauma to the upper canine, resulting
in exposure of the pulp cavity, was thought to be the mode of infection.
Radiography was the most useful diagnostic aid in establishing the nature and
extent of the lesion. Antibiotic therapy alone was inadequate, and provision of
drainage by extracting the tooth, in conjunction with antibiotics, proved the
most effective treatment.

DOI: 10.1258/002367784780891271 
PMID: 6431184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

