

4674. Lab Anim Sci. 1984 Apr;34(2):164-8.

Hematologic and immunologic responses in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
infected with Plasmodium knowlesi and Epstein-Barr virus.

Felton SC, Hoffmann CC, Kreier JP, Glaser R.

The hematologic and immunologic responses to infection with either the
Epstein-Barr virus alone or infection with Epstein-Barr virus and Plasmodium
knowlesi were studied using common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The assays
performed included complete blood cell counts, determinations of natural killer
cell activity, and determinations of antibody titers to Epstein-Barr virus early 
antigen, virus capsid antigen and the nuclear antigen. While no animal showed
signs of lymphoproliferative disease, it was found that animals infected with
Epstein-Barr virus became positive for early antigen, virus capsid antigen and
nuclear antigen at low levels. No difference in antibody titers between
Epstein-Barr virus infected animals and co-infected animals was observed. An
increase also was found in the number of leukocytes in all groups, and an
increase in natural killer cells following infection with Epstein-Barr virus.
Some depression in natural killer cells was observed in the co-infected animals
when compared to Epstein-Barr virus infected animals.


PMID: 6328114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4675. Cell Immunol. 1984 Apr 1;84(2):446-52.

Binding of human lymphocyte-specific monoclonal antibodies to common marmoset
lymphoid cells.

Barton RW, Thrall RS, Neubauer RH.

Commercially available monoclonal antibodies which bind to human lymphocyte
subsets were screened for their ability to bind to lymphoid cells from the common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Anti-Leu-5 and T11 were the only pan T-cell
antibodies which reacted strongly. None of the antibodies which bind human
lymphocytes of the helper/inducer subpopulation reacted with C. jacchus cells and
only one antibody, T8, specific for the cytotoxic/suppressor subset, bound to the
marmoset cells. The two antibodies tested which bind human B cells, B1 and
anti-HLA-DR, were also reactive with marmoset cells. The cellular specificity of 
the T11, T8, and B1 antibodies was determined by dual binding studies on the
fluorescence-activated cell sorter. The B1 antibody bound only Ig+ cells and all 
Ig+ cells were B1+. The T11 and T8 antibodies bound only to Ig- marmoset lymphoid
cells and, as in the human, all T8+ marmoset cells were also T11+. Thus, using
these monoclonal antibodies in the common marmoset one can identify three
populations of lymphoid cells: (1) T11+, T8+ cells; (2) T11+, T8- cells; (3) B1+ 
cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0008-8749(84)90119-9 
PMID: 6200238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

