

4675. Cell Immunol. 1984 Apr 1;84(2):446-52.

Binding of human lymphocyte-specific monoclonal antibodies to common marmoset
lymphoid cells.

Barton RW, Thrall RS, Neubauer RH.

Commercially available monoclonal antibodies which bind to human lymphocyte
subsets were screened for their ability to bind to lymphoid cells from the common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Anti-Leu-5 and T11 were the only pan T-cell
antibodies which reacted strongly. None of the antibodies which bind human
lymphocytes of the helper/inducer subpopulation reacted with C. jacchus cells and
only one antibody, T8, specific for the cytotoxic/suppressor subset, bound to the
marmoset cells. The two antibodies tested which bind human B cells, B1 and
anti-HLA-DR, were also reactive with marmoset cells. The cellular specificity of 
the T11, T8, and B1 antibodies was determined by dual binding studies on the
fluorescence-activated cell sorter. The B1 antibody bound only Ig+ cells and all 
Ig+ cells were B1+. The T11 and T8 antibodies bound only to Ig- marmoset lymphoid
cells and, as in the human, all T8+ marmoset cells were also T11+. Thus, using
these monoclonal antibodies in the common marmoset one can identify three
populations of lymphoid cells: (1) T11+, T8+ cells; (2) T11+, T8- cells; (3) B1+ 
cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0008-8749(84)90119-9 
PMID: 6200238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4676. Vet Pathol. 1984 Mar;21(2):193-7.

Spontaneous neoplasms of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Oral and
nasopharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas.

Betton GR.

Eight spontaneous highly invasive oral and nasopharyngeal squamous cell
carcinomas were observed over an 18-month period in a breeding colony of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Affected marmosets were predominantly males
over four years of age. The incidence of this tumor in the four-year-plus age
group was 4.9%. The tumors were locally invasive through the palate to the nasal 
cavity, retrobulbar space and cranial cavity in some marmosets with lung
metastases present in three cases.

DOI: 10.1177/030098588402100211 
PMID: 6428027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

