

4678. J Anat. 1984 Mar;138 ( Pt 2):217-25.

The structure of the vomeronasal organ and nasopalatine ducts in Aotus
trivirgatus and some other primate species.

Hunter AJ, Fleming D, Dixson AF.

A vomeronasal organ and patent nasopalatine ducts were found in adult specimens
of Aotus trivirgatus, Arctocebus calabarensis, Ateles geoffroyi and Saguinus
fuscicollis. The vomeronasal complex appeared to be functional except in Ateles. 
However, the relative size of the organ in the Platyrrhini is much reduced
compared to that in prosimians. The possible role of the organ in mediating
neuroendocrine processes in primates is discussed.


PMCID: PMC1164062
PMID: 6425250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4679. Dev Psychobiol. 1984 Mar;17(2):191-208.

Correlations among measures of playfulness and skillfulness in captive common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Chalmers NR, Locke-Haydon J.

Infant sensorimotor and social skills, playfulness, and nonplayful behaviors were
measured in common marmosets from 6 to 22 weeks old. Different measures of skill 
showed a low concordance, implying that skill is a multiple rather than unitary
attribute. Significant correlations were found between the amount of social play 
infants performed from 11 to 13 weeks of age and their performance at 14 weeks in
(1) competitive food tests with their mothers, and in (2) their ability to
negotiate an obstacle for a food reward. Significant correlations were also found
between these skills and nonplayful behaviors, however. Comparable analyses at
other ages revealed few significant correlations, suggesting that the association
between social play and skills is restricted to the age when infants are rapidly 
becoming independent of their caregivers both for locomotion and food.
Age-specific correlations occurred between changes in levels of skills and both
playful and nonplay behaviors. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis
that social play promotes the development of skills, but alternative explanations
are possible.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.420170209 
PMID: 6423428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

