

468. Dev Psychobiol. 2020 Nov;62(7):932-940. doi: 10.1002/dev.21892. Epub 2019 Jul 9.

Vasopressin, but not oxytocin, modulates responses to infant stimuli in marmosets
providing care to dependent infants.

Taylor JH(1)(2), Carp SB(1)(2), French JA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Omaha, Nebraska.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.

In family-living species, the quality and patterning of caregiving is the product
of an individual's role within the family (mother, father, sibling) and parental 
experience, both of which interact with underlying neurobiological substrates.
Among these substrates are the nonapeptides vasopressin and oxytocin, which
modulate maternal, paternal, and alloparental care. We used a nonhuman primate
model of the "nuclear family," the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), to investigate 
relationships between caregiving experience, role within the family, and
activation of either the oxytocin or vasopressin systems in shaping
responsiveness to offspring. During two phases of offspring development (early
infancy, juvenile), mothers, fathers, and older siblings were treated with
vasopressin, oxytocin, or saline via intranasal application, and tested for
responses to infant distress stimuli in a within-subjects design. Interest in
infant stimuli was highest among marmosets that were caring for infants compared 
to those caring for juveniles, and parentally experienced marmosets were quicker 
to respond to infant stimuli than first-time caregivers. Moreover, marmosets
treated with vasopressin showed enhanced responsiveness to infant stimuli
compared to control stimuli only when caring for infants. Thus, in all classes of
marmoset caregivers, vasopressin enhances responsiveness to infant-associated
stimuli in caregivers during periods in which infant care is most crucial.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.21892 
PMCID: PMC6949433
PMID: 31290143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Behav Processes. 2019 Sep;166:103897. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2019.103897. Epub
2019 Jul 2.

Nonhuman primate welfare: Can there be a relationship between personality,
lateralization and physiological indicators?

Fernández-Lázaro G(1), Latorre R(2), Alonso-García E(3), Barja Núñez I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Friends of Thoreau Program, Instituto Franklin, Universidad de Alcalá,
Trinidad 1, 28801, Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
gloria.fernandez@institutofranklin.net.
(2)Grupo de Neurocomputación Biológica, Departamento de Ingeniería Informática,
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 28049, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Friends of Thoreau Program, Instituto Franklin, Universidad de Alcalá,
Trinidad 1, 28801, Alcalá de Henares, Madrid, Spain.
(4)Departamento de Biología, Unidad de Zoología, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 
c/Darwin 2, Campus Universitario de Cantoblanco, 28049, Madrid, Spain; Centro de 
Investigación en Biodiversidad y Cambio Global (CIBC-UAM), Universidad Autónoma
de Madrid, C/ Darwin 2, 28049 Madrid, Spain.

Measuring personality is being used to improved nonhuman primate welfare. To
expand its use, it is important to identify traits that are shared between
species and that measures are reliable, easy to use and less time consuming.
Combining personality and other indicators strong validation of the results can
be obtained. In the present study, we sought to determine if there is a link
between physiological stress response (fecal cortisol metabolites), personality
(ratings made by animal keepers and reaction to novel objects) and lateralization
of the brain (hand preferences) on eight species of nonhuman primates: Callithrix
jacchus, Callithrix geoffroyi, Cebuella Pygmaea, Saguinus imperator, Saguinus
oedipus, Leontopithecus rosalia, Pithecia pithecia and Nycticebus pygmaeus.
Personality assessments achieved good levels of interrater reliability and
revealed three components of personality in our sample: fearfulness, activeness
and aggressiveness. More exploratory individuals were more active, aggressive and
showed higher cortisol metabolite levels. Right-handed subjects inspected novel
objects sooner and the strength of the lateralization was linked with individual 
stress and the aggressiveness component. Our results highlight that there is a
relation between personality, lateralization and physiological indicators in
nonhuman primates, but although some aspects can be generalized across species
and/or sexes others are species/sex dependent.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2019.103897 
PMID: 31271769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

