

4680. J Anat. 1984 Mar;138 ( Pt 2):227-35.

The structure and epididymal maturation of the spermatozoon of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Moore HD, Hartman TD, Holt WV.

Maturation of the spermatozoon of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) during
epididymal transit was investigated using light and electron microscopy. Except
for the caudal migration of the cytoplasmic droplet there were no apparent
ultrastructural modifications, although interesting morphological features of the
sperm head were observed such as the substructure of the acrosome and a waist at 
the equatorial region. Alteration to the plasmalemma during maturation was
reflected by an increasing capacity of the sperm surface to bind wheat germ
agglutinin (recognising n-acetyl-d-glucosamine) but not ricin communis or
concanavalin agglutinins. This change was concomitant with the development of
sperm fertilising capacity in this species.


PMCID: PMC1164063
PMID: 6325376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4681. Am J Physiol. 1984 Mar;246(3 Pt 2):F309-16.

Blood pressure effects of renin inhibition by human renin antiserum in
normotensive marmosets.

Michel JB, Wood J, Hofbauer K, Corvol P, Menard J.

The effects on blood pressure of an antiserum against pure human kidney renin
were studied in conscious and anesthetized (pentobarbital, 24 mg X kg-1 i.p.)
small new world monkeys (common marmosets). The antiserum inhibited the enzymatic
activity of renin by 50% in a dilution of 1:45,000 in marmoset and 1:50,000 in
human plasma. The antiserum (0.2 ml i.v.) decreased blood pressure in conscious
marmosets on normal sodium intake by 15 +/- 5 (SD) mmHg and after salt depletion 
by 31 +/- 13 mmHg. A converting enzyme inhibitor (teprotide, 2 mg X kg-1 i.v.)
induced a comparable fall in blood pressure: -16 +/- 10 and -30 +/- 10 mmHg,
respectively. Similar effects were observed on blood pressure of anesthetized
marmosets. The correlation between pretreatment plasma renin concentration and
the maximum fall in blood pressure was significant and identical for the
experiments with antiserum and teprotide. These results demonstrate that antisera
against human renin can be used for the specific blockade of the
renin-angiotensin system in primates. In normotensive marmosets the
renin-angiotensin system participates in the maintenance of blood pressure, to a 
degree depending on the state of sodium balance.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.1984.246.3.F309 
PMID: 6199985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

