

4681. Am J Physiol. 1984 Mar;246(3 Pt 2):F309-16.

Blood pressure effects of renin inhibition by human renin antiserum in
normotensive marmosets.

Michel JB, Wood J, Hofbauer K, Corvol P, Menard J.

The effects on blood pressure of an antiserum against pure human kidney renin
were studied in conscious and anesthetized (pentobarbital, 24 mg X kg-1 i.p.)
small new world monkeys (common marmosets). The antiserum inhibited the enzymatic
activity of renin by 50% in a dilution of 1:45,000 in marmoset and 1:50,000 in
human plasma. The antiserum (0.2 ml i.v.) decreased blood pressure in conscious
marmosets on normal sodium intake by 15 +/- 5 (SD) mmHg and after salt depletion 
by 31 +/- 13 mmHg. A converting enzyme inhibitor (teprotide, 2 mg X kg-1 i.v.)
induced a comparable fall in blood pressure: -16 +/- 10 and -30 +/- 10 mmHg,
respectively. Similar effects were observed on blood pressure of anesthetized
marmosets. The correlation between pretreatment plasma renin concentration and
the maximum fall in blood pressure was significant and identical for the
experiments with antiserum and teprotide. These results demonstrate that antisera
against human renin can be used for the specific blockade of the
renin-angiotensin system in primates. In normotensive marmosets the
renin-angiotensin system participates in the maintenance of blood pressure, to a 
degree depending on the state of sodium balance.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.1984.246.3.F309 
PMID: 6199985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4682. Biochem Genet. 1984 Feb;22(1-2):51-63.

Genetic polymorphism and linkage of the sixth and seventh complement components
(C6 and C7) in the common marmoset.

Whitehouse DB.

Using polyacrylamide gel isoelectric focusing and standard specific hemolytic
detection methods, genetic polymorphisms have been found in the sixth and seventh
complement components (C6 and C7) in two laboratory groups of Common marmosets.
The C6 locus is highly variable and the products of six alleles were observed;
three C7 alleles were found. Comprehensive breeding data indicated that both sets
of alleles are inherited in an autosomal codominant manner. Many of the C6
variants differed only by a minute charge interval. The C7 variant bands differed
by large charge intervals and could only be clearly seen in plasmas that had been
preincubated with neuraminidase. A linkage analysis of C6 and C7 phenotypes in
three, two-generation families gives reasonable evidence that the two loci are
linked in marmosets as they are in humans.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00499286 
PMID: 6424644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

