

4683. FEBS Lett. 1984 Jan 2;165(1):46-50.

The myoglobin of primates: the Night Monkey, Aotes trivirgatus (Cebidae,
Platyrrhini, Anthropoidea).

Heinbokel N, Lehmann H.

The amino acid sequence of the myoglobin of the South American Night Monkey,
Aotes trivirgatus, is identical to that of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus [1]) 
except for residue 21 which is isoleucine in the marmoset, like in all other
anthropoids, but valine in Aotes. Analysis of a possible pathway of the evolution
of Aotes myoglobin using 18 known primate myoglobin sequences [2-5] supports the 
classification of the Night Monkey within Anthropoidea and Platyrrhini but it
indicates that this species might be more closely related to the marmoset (family
Callitrichidae) than to the family Cebidae as a member of which it is commonly
classified.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-5793(84)80012-5 
PMID: 6692912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4684. Am J Primatol. 1984;6(4):377-380. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350060408.

Effects of sibling-rearing experience on future reproductive success in two
species of callitrichidae.

Tardif SD(1), Richter CB(2), Carson RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Marmoset Research Center, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee.
(2)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.

The survival rate for offspring of mothers who either had or did not have
previous experience rearing younger siblings was compared in two callitrichid
species, Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus oedipus. Offspring of mothers with
sibling-rearing experience had a higher survival percentage than offspring of
inexperienced mothers in both species. While 50-60% of offspring of inexperienced
C. jacchus mothers survived, no offspring of inexperienced S. oedipus mothers
survived. The results suggest that sibling-rearing experience is necessary for
adequate maternal behavior in S. oedipus, but not necessary to the development of
maternal behavior in C. jacchus. Effects of previous sibling-rearing experience
of S. oedipus fathers on offspring survival were also examined. Whether the
father had rearing experience was not related to the survival of their offspring.

Copyright Â© 1984 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350060408 
PMID: 32160724 

