

4684. Am J Primatol. 1984;6(4):377-380. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350060408.

Effects of sibling-rearing experience on future reproductive success in two
species of callitrichidae.

Tardif SD(1), Richter CB(2), Carson RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Marmoset Research Center, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Oak Ridge,
Tennessee.
(2)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences.

The survival rate for offspring of mothers who either had or did not have
previous experience rearing younger siblings was compared in two callitrichid
species, Callithrix jacchus and Saguinus oedipus. Offspring of mothers with
sibling-rearing experience had a higher survival percentage than offspring of
inexperienced mothers in both species. While 50-60% of offspring of inexperienced
C. jacchus mothers survived, no offspring of inexperienced S. oedipus mothers
survived. The results suggest that sibling-rearing experience is necessary for
adequate maternal behavior in S. oedipus, but not necessary to the development of
maternal behavior in C. jacchus. Effects of previous sibling-rearing experience
of S. oedipus fathers on offspring survival were also examined. Whether the
father had rearing experience was not related to the survival of their offspring.

Copyright © 1984 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350060408 
PMID: 32160724 


4685. Am J Primatol. 1984;7(1):15-20. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350070104.

"Conversations" among pygmy marmosets.

Snowdon CT(1), Cleveland J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison.

Pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea) use a variety of trill-like vocalizations to
maintain contact among group members throughout the day. Frequently, when one
animal gives a trill, other animals will respond antiphonally. Among three pygmy 
marmosets in a captive group, there were clear patterns or sequences of calling
among animals. All three animals would call in sequence more frequently than
expected by chance, while the likelihood of an animal calling twice before each
of the other animals called once was less than expected by chance. One particular
ordering of three individuals calling in sequence was more common than the other 
ordering of three animals. Individual differences were found between the
likelihood of initiating call sequences and the likelihood of calling later in a 
sequence. Pygmy marmosets appear to have a conversational rule system to govern
their antiphonal calling.

Copyright © 1984 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350070104 
PMID: 32138463 

