

4686. Am J Primatol. 1984;7(4):377-380. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350070406.

Field notes and geographic distribution of Callithrix aurita in Eastern Brazil.

Muskin A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Graduate School and University Center, CUNY, New
York City.

Callithrix aurita, an endangered marmoset endemic to eastern Brazil, was observed
from June to October 1982. Preliminary observations suggest that behavioral and
morphological differences exist which distinguish C. aurita from the common
marmoset, C. jacchus. New data are provided on the geographic distribution of C. 
aurita, extending it northward within the known ranges of C. penicillata in the
states of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais and C. flaviceps in eastern Minas Gerais.

Copyright © 1984 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350070406 
PMID: 32106636 


4687. Am J Primatol. 1984;6(3):169-186. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350060305.

Behavioral and physiological suppression of fertility in subordinate marmoset
monkeys.

Abbott DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, 37 Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9EW,
Scotland.

In laboratory groups of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus), socially
induced reproductive suppression among subordinates and offspring effectively
maintained a monogamous breeding system. Male subordinates or male offspring were
inhibited or restrained from showing sexual behavior, while similarly placed
females could also suffer from complete ovarian failure. In well-established
families, a familiarity or inbreeding taboo restricted reproduction among
otherwise fertile offspring. However, only one daughter ovulated in any family,
and in up to 50% of family groups, all daughters were inhibited from ovulating.
This differential effect on daughters may have reflected a qualitative shift in
the mother-daughter relationship: the ovulating daughter may have represented the
next breeding female and may no longer have regarded the mother as an inhibitory 
influence. In newly established peer groups of pubertal and postpubertal
offspring, one male and female dominated all others in each group and overtly
inhibited sexual behavior in subordinates of their own sex. Ovulation was
suppressed in all subordinate females because of inadequate gonadotrophin
secretion. This was not related to increased secretion of cortisol or prolactin, 
but may have been related to hypothalamic inhibition of luteinizing
hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) secretion.

Copyright © 1984 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350060305 
PMID: 31986838 

