

4687. Am J Primatol. 1984;6(3):169-186. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350060305.

Behavioral and physiological suppression of fertility in subordinate marmoset
monkeys.

Abbott DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, 37 Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9EW,
Scotland.

In laboratory groups of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus), socially
induced reproductive suppression among subordinates and offspring effectively
maintained a monogamous breeding system. Male subordinates or male offspring were
inhibited or restrained from showing sexual behavior, while similarly placed
females could also suffer from complete ovarian failure. In well-established
families, a familiarity or inbreeding taboo restricted reproduction among
otherwise fertile offspring. However, only one daughter ovulated in any family,
and in up to 50% of family groups, all daughters were inhibited from ovulating.
This differential effect on daughters may have reflected a qualitative shift in
the mother-daughter relationship: the ovulating daughter may have represented the
next breeding female and may no longer have regarded the mother as an inhibitory 
influence. In newly established peer groups of pubertal and postpubertal
offspring, one male and female dominated all others in each group and overtly
inhibited sexual behavior in subordinates of their own sex. Ovulation was
suppressed in all subordinate females because of inadequate gonadotrophin
secretion. This was not related to increased secretion of cortisol or prolactin, 
but may have been related to hypothalamic inhibition of luteinizing
hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) secretion.

Copyright © 1984 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350060305 
PMID: 31986838 


4688. Am J Primatol. 1984;6(3):187-197. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350060306.

Monitoring ovarian function in marmosets and tamarins by the measurement of
urinary estrogen metabolites.

Hodges JK(1), Eastman SAK(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Zoology, The Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park,
London NW1 4RY, UK.

Practical aspects of urinary estrogen analysis were considered with regard to
establishing simple and reliable methods for monitoring ovarian function in
marmosets and tamarins. Changes in the hormone:creatinine ratio in small volumes 
of urine from the common marmoset were significantly correlated with changes in
24-h excretion. Comparison of the metabolism and excretion of estrogens during
the ovarian cycle in the common marmoset and cottontop tamarin revealed
interesting species differences. High concentrations of conjugated estrone were
measured in marmoset plasma, but estradiol 17β was the predominant estrogen in
urine. In contrast, estrone was the most abundant estrogen measured in tamarin
urine. Both species excreted very little estriol. Sulfates and glucuronides were 
present in urine in similar proportions before ovulation in the marmoset,
although after ovulation sulfates were the more abundant. Conversely, most of the
estrogens in tamarin urine appeared to be conjugated as glucuronides. Direct
assay for estrone sulfate was applied to the measurement of urinary estrogen
excretion during the ovarian cycle in a marmoset. The results compared well with 
those for total estradiol 17β after hydrolysis and ether extraction. The use of
direct assays for conjugated estrogens in small volumes of urine is suggested as 
a practical method for monitoring ovarian function in marmosets and tamarins.

Copyright © 1984 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350060306 
PMID: 31986836 

