

4693. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1984;42(2):127-33.

Reproductive status of adult daughters in family groups of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Evans S, Hodges JK.

Urine samples were collected from 6 pubertal female common marmosets at
approximately 3-day intervals over a period of 3-7 months. All 6 females were the
eldest daughters in their family groups. 3 of these females were subsequently
removed from their families and sampled in isolation for another 2-3 months.
Levels of urinary pregnanediol-3 alpha-glucuronide were measured by
radioimmunoassay in order to establish whether these females showed ovarian
cyclicity. No cyclical fluctuations in the levels of pregnanediol were observed
in the females housed with their families even though the females were of a
reproductively mature age. Cyclicity was quickly established (within 18-22 days) 
when the females were removed from the family. These results are discussed in the
light of similar recent investigations on callitrichid reproduction and the
behavioural implications are considered.

DOI: 10.1159/000156155 
PMID: 6432658  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4694. Neuropsychologia. 1984;22(3):253-63.

An involvement of acetylcholine in object discrimination learning and memory in
the marmoset.

Ridley RM, Bowes PM, Baker HF, Crow TJ.

Five marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were tested, using a Wisconsin General Test
Apparatus, on a series of junk object visual discrimination tasks, including new 
learning, 24-hr reversal and 24-hr retention. The effects of administering the
cholinergic receptor blocking agent, scopolamine either just before or
immediately after the new learning task, or just before the 24-hr reversal and
retention tasks, were assessed. Results suggest that scopolamine impairs new
learning and impairs the encoding of new information in long term memory. Some
evidence of a mild retrieval deficit under scopolamine was also seen, while
state-dependent effects were not apparent.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-3932(84)90073-3 
PMID: 6431311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

