

4694. Neuropsychologia. 1984;22(3):253-63.

An involvement of acetylcholine in object discrimination learning and memory in
the marmoset.

Ridley RM, Bowes PM, Baker HF, Crow TJ.

Five marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were tested, using a Wisconsin General Test
Apparatus, on a series of junk object visual discrimination tasks, including new 
learning, 24-hr reversal and 24-hr retention. The effects of administering the
cholinergic receptor blocking agent, scopolamine either just before or
immediately after the new learning task, or just before the 24-hr reversal and
retention tasks, were assessed. Results suggest that scopolamine impairs new
learning and impairs the encoding of new information in long term memory. Some
evidence of a mild retrieval deficit under scopolamine was also seen, while
state-dependent effects were not apparent.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-3932(84)90073-3 
PMID: 6431311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4695. J Anat. 1984 Jan;138 ( Pt 1):175-88.

Ultrastructural aspects of spermatogenesis in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Holt WV, Moore HD.

The pattern of normal spermatogenesis in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
is described and a system classifying the spermatogenic cycle into nine
successive stages is presented. In contrast to most previous studies of
spermatogenesis, the classification system developed in this study depends more
upon the recognition of characteristic cell associations rather than upon
identification of particular steps of spermatid development. The structurally
simple acrosome of the marmoset spermatozoon displays insufficiently clear
morphological changes during spermatid elongation to allow this to be used as a
key to spermatogenic classification. Ultrastructural aspects of spermatogenesis
in the marmoset are also described; in general, these correspond to similar
descriptions of this process in other primates.


PMCID: PMC1164318
PMID: 6423594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

