

4697. J Dent Res. 1984 Jan;63(1):44-6.

A comparison of tooth eruption patterns between two colonies of young marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Goss AN.

The tooth eruption patterns of two large groups of young living marmosets were
compared. The eruption sequence was essentially similar and was consistent with
previous studies based on smaller numbers of dead animals. At nine mo, however,
one group was more advanced than the other, although their craniofacial growth
patterns were similar.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345840630011001 
PMID: 6420451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4698. Clin Chem. 1984 Jan;30(1):101-4.

Stabilities of some constituents of marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) plasma under
various conditions of storage.

Davy CW, Jackson MR, Walker JM.

The stability of various marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) plasma constituents was
investigated after storage at room temperature, 4 degrees C, and -20 degrees C.
The method of sequential analysis ensured that the between-run bias of the
methods of analysis used was drastically reduced, and the definitions of
stability were linked to the imprecision of these methods. Optimal conditions for
storage for as long as 48 h depended on the analyte being measured. Room
temperature was optimal for cholinesterase and acetylcholinesterase; 4 degrees C 
for protein, albumin, alanine aminotransferase, isocitrate dehydrogenase,
sorbitol dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, and glutamate dehydrogenase; and
-20 degrees C for glutathione reductase and alkaline phosphatase. For aspartate
amino-transferase and gamma-glutamyltransferase, either 4 degrees C or -20
degrees C would be suitable. Reasons are advanced for some conflicting reports in
the published work, and we emphasize the need to investigate each analyte and
species separately.


PMID: 6418408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

