

4704. J Med Virol. 1984;14(1):1-8.

Monoclonal antibodies to hepatitis A virus.

Dawson GJ, Decker RH, Norton DK, Bryce WH, Whittington RO, Tribby II, Mushahwar
IK.

This paper describes the development of monoclonal antibodies generated against
hepatitis A virus (HAV). Monoclonal antibodies (MCABs) from two murine hybridoma 
cell lines were found to bind to an epitope recognized in the sera of patients
recovering from infection with HAV. Ascites fluids containing MCABs from one
hybridoma (H1 C19) inhibited a maximum of 70% of the 125I-labeled polyclonal
human anti-HAV from binding to HAV-antigen in a competitive radioimmunoassay,
indicating that the MCAB recognizes a major epitope of HAV. Monoclonal anti-HAV
that was coated onto polystyrene beads was as effective as polyclonal antibodies 
in capturing HAV antigen from extracts of human feces, marmoset liver, and
cultured cells. Radiolabeled MCAB was used to screen sera for anti-HAV. A
collection of 117 sera was tested for total anti-HAV by competitive
radioimmunoassay utilizing either 125I-labeled human polyclonal or mouse
monoclonal antibody. Thirty-four specimens were similarly reactive by both
systems, while the remainder were negative. Likewise, 28 specimens were similarly
positive for IgM anti-HAV, and 12 specimens were negative using each of the two
labeled antibodies. The data show that anti-HAV induced during disease is
directed against a common major epitope of HAV and that MC anti-HAV can be used
effectively as a reagent to detect these antibodies.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890140102 
PMID: 6086829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4705. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1983 Dec 20;754(3):321-33.

Isolation, characterization and comparative aspects of the major serum
apolipoproteins, B-100 and AI, in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Forgez P, Chapman MJ, Mills GL.

The two major apolipoproteins of marmoset serum have been isolated and
characterized, and on the basis of physicochemical and immunological criteria are
homologous with the human AI and B-100 proteins. Marmoset apolipoprotein AI was
the principal protein of high-density lipoproteins (HDL) and was purified by gel 
filtration chromatography and electrophoresis in alkaline-urea polyacrylamide gel
followed by electrophoretic elution. Purified marmoset apolipoprotein AI
displayed an Mr of approx. 27000, was polymorphic (five forms) on isoelectric
focussing, with pI values in the range 4.8-5.0, and migrated similarly to human
apolipoprotein AI in alkaline-urea gels. An overall resemblance was seen in the
amino acid composition of marmoset apolipoprotein AI and that of its human
counterpart with the notable exception that marmoset AI contained 1 isoleucine
residue/mole. An immunological reaction of partial identity between the human and
monkey proteins was seen upon immunodiffusion of their HDLs against antiserum to 
human apolipoprotein AI. Marmoset B-100 was the predominant apoprotein of VLDL
and LDL, resembling the human protein in its elution profile on gel filtration
chromatography in anionic detergent, and in its high apparent Mr (approx.
520000). The marmoset and human B-100 proteins were alike in amino acid
composition and carbohydrate content. Moreover, their immunological behaviour
with an antiserum to marmoset apolipoprotein B showed them to share certain
antigenic determinant(s). We conclude that the physicochemical properties of the 
principle apolipoproteins of Callithrix jacchus, a New World primate, markedly
resemble those of the human AI and B-100 proteins, suggesting therefore that they
may function similarly in lipid transport and metabolism. Counterparts to human
apolipoproteins AII, E, CII and CIII have also been tentatively identified.

DOI: 10.1016/0005-2760(83)90149-2 
PMID: 6418212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

