

4708. Rev Fr Transfus Immunohematol. 1983 Nov;26(5):539-52.

[Establishment of a DNA bank of human origin].

[Article in French]

Rahuel C, Dandieu S, Chaussé AM, Mornet E, Rouger P, Cartron JP, Salmon C,
Lucotte G.

High molecular weight DNA extracted from 50 unrelated parisian individuals
constitutes a "DNA-thèque" which can be used at the population level. This
procedure allows preparation from a variety of tissues such as liver, placenta
and leucocytes. The "quality" of the DNA obtained (about 50 Kb, RNA and protein
free) and the efficiency of the method (in terms of the yield of DNA obtained)
are considered. Blood is the easiest material to obtain and permits the obtaining
of a reasonable amount of human and primate DNA, particularly when familial
investigation is planned for polymorphism studies. One of the objects of this
article is to encourage others to make use of our bank, for studies in population
and evolutionary genetics.

DOI: 10.1016/s0338-4535(83)80123-8 
PMID: 6198708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4709. Behav Brain Res. 1983 Oct;10(1):3-13.

Structural development of the lateral geniculate nucleus and visual cortex in
monkey and man.

Garey LJ, de Courten C.

This study concerns the development of the primary visual pathway of the primate.
The lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) is the principal thalamic relay to the
visual cortex (area 17), and its neurons have similar morphological
characteristics in both monkey and man, as identified by Golgi impregnation. The 
commonest neuron is the multipolar with a radiate or tufted dendritic tree; next 
is the bipolar neuron with two or three diametrically opposed dendritic trunks.
Less frequent are neurons with beaded dendrites and others with fine, axon-like
dendritic processes, possibly interneurons. The dendritic tree of all neurons
remains generally within a lamina, but some dendrites cross interlaminar zones.
LGN neurons are identifiable before birth and differ from their adult form by the
presence of immature features, especially numerous dendritic and somatic spines, 
most frequent at birth in monkeys and at about 4 months postnatally in man. They 
disappear almost completely by 3 months in monkeys and 9 months in man. The human
LGN has reached its 'adult' volume by this age. Two stages in the development of 
the human area 17 can be defined. The first is marked by a rapid growth to its
'adult' volume by about 4 months, and by intense synaptogenesis beginning in the 
foetus and reaching a maximum around 8 months. The second stage is one of
stabilization in the volume of area 17 and loss of synapses to reach 'adult'
synaptic density around 11 years, at about 60% of the maximum values.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-4328(83)90145-6 
PMID: 6639728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

