

4711. Lab Anim. 1983 Oct;17(4):303-6.

Craniofacial growth in young marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Goss AN, White J, Townsend GC.

A cross-sectional study of craniofacial growth in young marmosets was performed. 
Selected linear craniofacial measurements were obtained from groups of 5 animals 
of each sex at 3 monthly intervals from birth to 1 year. These data provide a
baseline for comparison with other colonies and in the assessment of teratogens
on craniofacial development.

DOI: 10.1258/002367783781062271 
PMID: 6431179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4712. Lab Anim. 1983 Oct;17(4):270-9.

A survey of the pathology of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) derived from a
marmoset breeding unit.

Chalmers DT, Murgatroyd LB, Wadsworth PF.

The results of a survey of the major pathological conditions encountered in an
established breeding colony of common cotton-eared marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
is presented. 265 home-bred and 70 imported wild-caught marmosets were examined. 
A Heinz body haemolytic anaemia and skeletal muscle myopathy were the most common
pathological findings and were considered to be a result of a complex nutritional
deficiency involving vitamin E, selenium and protein. Inflammatory disease of the
intestinal tract was also a major feature. Chronic colitis was particularly
common in older marmosets. Pneumonia, otitis media, meningitis and brain
abscesses were important pathological findings in home-bred marmosets and were
commonly associated with bacterial infections, particularly Bordetella
bronchiseptica and Klebsiella species. Trichospirura leptostoma within pancreatic
ducts of wild-caught marmosets was the only significant parasitic disease
encountered. Mycotic infections of the upper alimentary tract with Candida
species were occasional findings in debilitated animals. No pathological features
suggesting viral diseases were found.

DOI: 10.1258/002367783781062217 
PMID: 6431178  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

