

4714. Arch Toxicol. 1983 Sep;54(1):41-52.

Timing of ovulation and implantation in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, 
by monitoring of estrogens and 6 beta-hydroxypregnanolone in urine.

Heger HW, Neubert D.

Urinary estrogen and 6 beta-hydroxypregnanolone excretions have been determined
in female marmosets by means of HPTLC. The levels observed in cycling females
during implantation and abortion are reported. Hormone analysis revealed a
characteristic pattern showing cyclic fluctuations of estrogens and progesterone.
Estrogen metabolites increase during the follicular phase up to 1 microgram/ml,
the progesterone metabolite level rises to 1.2 micrograms/ml urine during the
luteal phase. Maximum values of both are superimposed in many cases. Ovulatory
cycles can be monitored by following estrogen and progesterone metabolites in
urine samples. Thus ovulation and the onset of pregnancy can be estimated with a 
precision of +/- 24 h (or less).

DOI: 10.1007/BF00277814 
PMID: 6416225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4715. J Nucl Med. 1983 Aug;24(8):728-31.

Gated blood-pool studies of cardiac function in the rat and marmoset.

McIntosh GH, Barnden LR, Buttfield IH, Charnock JS.

To develop a sensitive, relatively noninvasive method for monitoring cardiac
function in small laboratory animals, equilibrium gated blood-pool imaging (with 
Tc-99m RBC) was adapted for use in an inbred strain of laboratory rats of 400-470
g body weight and in marmosets of 320-400 g body weight. A 2-mm pinhole
collimator was fitted to the gamma camera to produce a distinct image of the left
ventricle following intravenous injection of 5 mCi of pertechnetate. Reproducible
and consistent data for heart rate, left-ventricular ejection fraction, and peak 
ejection rate were obtained from studies on 13 male rats and five marmosets
maintained on constant diets. An intravenous injection of 0.4 microgram of
isoprenaline led to predictable increases in heart rate, left-ventricular
ejection fraction, and peak ejection rate, and provided evidence of the
sensitivity of the method in monitoring heart function in small laboratory
animals.


PMID: 6875683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

