

4715. J Nucl Med. 1983 Aug;24(8):728-31.

Gated blood-pool studies of cardiac function in the rat and marmoset.

McIntosh GH, Barnden LR, Buttfield IH, Charnock JS.

To develop a sensitive, relatively noninvasive method for monitoring cardiac
function in small laboratory animals, equilibrium gated blood-pool imaging (with 
Tc-99m RBC) was adapted for use in an inbred strain of laboratory rats of 400-470
g body weight and in marmosets of 320-400 g body weight. A 2-mm pinhole
collimator was fitted to the gamma camera to produce a distinct image of the left
ventricle following intravenous injection of 5 mCi of pertechnetate. Reproducible
and consistent data for heart rate, left-ventricular ejection fraction, and peak 
ejection rate were obtained from studies on 13 male rats and five marmosets
maintained on constant diets. An intravenous injection of 0.4 microgram of
isoprenaline led to predictable increases in heart rate, left-ventricular
ejection fraction, and peak ejection rate, and provided evidence of the
sensitivity of the method in monitoring heart function in small laboratory
animals.


PMID: 6875683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4716. J Anat. 1983 Aug;137 (Pt 1):95-108.

An immunohistochemical study of the middle ear muscles of some carnivores and
primates, with special reference to the IIM and slow-tonic fibre types.

Mascarello F, Veggetti A, Cerpen√® E, Rowlerson A.

The middle ear muscles of several species of carnivores (cat, dog, fox, ferret
and stone-marten) and some New World monkeys (Callithrix, Saimiri) and Old World 
monkeys (Cercopithecus, Macaca) were examined. The fibre type compositions of
these muscles were determined by a combination of the standard histochemical
myofibrillar ATPase method, and immunohistochemical techniques using
myosintype-specific antisera. Immunohistochemically slow-tonic fibres were found 
in the stapedius muscles of only two carnivores, the ferret and stone-marten. In 
all the carnivores and the New World monkeys, tensor tympani muscle contained
IIM, slow-tonic and slow-twitch fibres, but in the Old World monkeys it resembled
stapedius muscle, and contained only Type I (slow-twitch) and IIA fibres. Thus,
because all the species examined had IIM fibres in the jaw-closer muscles, this
means that the common embryological origin of tensor tympani muscle and the
jaw-closers does not necessarily result in tensor tympani muscle containing this 
fibre type even though IIM fibres occur only in first branchial arch muscles.
This fact, together with other species differences in the fibre type composition 
of these muscles, shows that there is no typical composition of middle ear
muscles in general, and suggests that the differences are related to very
different functional requirements.


PMCID: PMC1171795
PMID: 6415024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

