

4716. J Anat. 1983 Aug;137 (Pt 1):95-108.

An immunohistochemical study of the middle ear muscles of some carnivores and
primates, with special reference to the IIM and slow-tonic fibre types.

Mascarello F, Veggetti A, Cerpen√® E, Rowlerson A.

The middle ear muscles of several species of carnivores (cat, dog, fox, ferret
and stone-marten) and some New World monkeys (Callithrix, Saimiri) and Old World 
monkeys (Cercopithecus, Macaca) were examined. The fibre type compositions of
these muscles were determined by a combination of the standard histochemical
myofibrillar ATPase method, and immunohistochemical techniques using
myosintype-specific antisera. Immunohistochemically slow-tonic fibres were found 
in the stapedius muscles of only two carnivores, the ferret and stone-marten. In 
all the carnivores and the New World monkeys, tensor tympani muscle contained
IIM, slow-tonic and slow-twitch fibres, but in the Old World monkeys it resembled
stapedius muscle, and contained only Type I (slow-twitch) and IIA fibres. Thus,
because all the species examined had IIM fibres in the jaw-closer muscles, this
means that the common embryological origin of tensor tympani muscle and the
jaw-closers does not necessarily result in tensor tympani muscle containing this 
fibre type even though IIM fibres occur only in first branchial arch muscles.
This fact, together with other species differences in the fibre type composition 
of these muscles, shows that there is no typical composition of middle ear
muscles in general, and suggests that the differences are related to very
different functional requirements.


PMCID: PMC1171795
PMID: 6415024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4717. Psychol Med. 1983 Aug;13(3):499-511.

An investigation of the effects of intracerebral injection in the marmoset of
cytopathic cerebrospinal fluid from patients with schizophrenia or neurological
disease.

Baker HF, Ridley RM, Crow TJ, Bloxham CA, Parry RP, Tyrrell DA.

In experiments designed to investigate transmission, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
from patients with schizophrenia and neurological disease (huntington's chorea
and multiple sclerosis) which had been found to induce cytopathic effects in
human embryonic fibroblast cell culture was injected intracerebrally into mice,
hamsters and marmosets (small New World primates). No evidence was obtained of
transmission to mice or hamsters. A total of 15 marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
was injected intracerebrally with CSF [8 with samples from 4 patients with
schizophrenia. 3 with samples from patients with neurological disease (2 with
Huntington's chorea and 1 with multiple sclerosis) and 4 with samples from 3
patients without neurological or psychiatric disease] and was observed over a
period of 2 1/2 years. Analysis of variance on data obtained from behavioral
observations averaged over 6-month periods revealed that animals injected with
CSF from patients with schizophrenia and neurological disease became
progressively more inactive when compared with animals injected with CSF from
control patients. The change detected by behavioural observation was confirmed as
a difference 2 and 2 1/2 years after injection by automated activity monitoring. 
There was an incidence of reproductive anomalies (including two occipital
encephalocoeles) in the females in the experimental group, but the numbers are
too small to draw firm conclusions from this observation. Many reported
differences in biological samples from schizophrenic patients and normal controls
have subsequently been found to be due to factors unrelated to the disease state.
This may prove to be the case with the changes observed in this experiment.
Nevertheless, the fact that marmosets injected with CSF from patients suffering
from neuropsychiatric disease, including schizophrenia, subsequently differed in 
their behaviour from those injected with control CSF warrants further
investigation.

DOI: 10.1017/s0033291700047930 
PMID: 6226054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

