

4719. Lab Anim Sci. 1983 Jun;33(3):264-7.

Evaluation of a pelleted diet in a colony of marmosets and tamarins.

Flurer C, Scheid R, Zucker H.

By offering various pelleted diet modifications to five species of
Callitrichidae, a palatable 24% protein diet was developed. The animals received 
limited fruit supplement, and families received an additional meal of commercial 
baby food. The pellets supplied approximately 75% of dietary energy and 95% of
total protein. In 15 months on this regimen, mortality dropped drastically and
fertility improved. No signs of a nutritional deficiency were observed. It was
concluded that the nutrient levels of this diet were adequate or above actual
requirements.


PMID: 6410116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4720. Physiol Behav. 1983 May;30(5):735-42.

The effect of the ovarian cycle on the sexual behaviour of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Kendrick KM, Dixson AF.

The sexual behaviour of 7 pairs of marmosets was observed during 30 minute tests 
for 44-68 days and blood samples were collected from females for measurement of
plasma progesterone, testosterone and oestrone. Copulations occurred throughout
the ovarian cycle of 24-30 days. Females used a "tongue-flicking" display both as
an invitational behaviour (proceptive tongue-flicks) and during copulation
(receptive tongue-flicks) most frequently during the peri-ovulatory period.
Frequencies of proceptivity were correlated positively with high mean levels of
testosterone and oestrone during the cycle and with a short follicular phase.
Males showed significant increases in tongue-flicks, mounts and ejaculations
during the peri-ovulatory phase, together with a shortened post-ejaculatory
interval and increased duration of penile erection after ejaculation. A
retrospective analysis showed that these changes in the males' behaviour occurred
only during tests where females were proceptive and not during other tests in the
peri-ovulatory period. Females refused significantly more of the males' mounting 
attempts during the luteal phase and a corresponding reduction in mount frequency
occurred at this time. Grooming, scent-marking, olfactory inspections and some
other behaviours did not alter significantly in either sex during the ovarian
cycle.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(83)90171-3 
PMID: 6683847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

