

472. eNeuro. 2019 Jul 25;6(4). pii: ENEURO.0154-19.2019. doi:
10.1523/ENEURO.0154-19.2019. Print 2019 Jul/Aug.

Sex Differences in Cognitive Flexibility and Resting Brain Networks in
Middle-Aged Marmosets.

LaClair M(1)(2), Febo M(3), Nephew B(4)(5), Gervais NJ(6)(7), Poirier G(5),
Workman K(7), Chumachenko S(5), Payne L(5), Moore MC(5), King JA(4)(5), Lacreuse 
A(1)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience and Behavior Program, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA
01003 mlaclair@fairfield.edu alacreuse@psych.umass.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, Fairfield University, Fairfield, CT 06824.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Florida, Gainsville, FL 32610.
(4)Worcester Polytechnic Institute, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01655.
(5)Center for Comparative Neuroimaging, University of Massachusetts Medical
School, Worcester, MA 01655.
(6)Center for Neuroendocrine Studies, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA
01003.
(7)Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA
01003.

Sex differences in human cognitive performance are well characterized. However,
the neural correlates of these differences remain elusive. This issue may be
clarified using nonhuman primates, for which sociocultural influences are
minimized. We used the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to investigate sex
differences in two aspects of executive function: reversal learning and
intradimensional/extradimensional (ID/ED) set shifting. Stress reactivity and
motor function were also assessed. In agreement with human literature, females
needed more trials than males to acquire the reversals. No sex differences in ED 
set shifting or motivational measures were observed. The findings suggest
enhanced habit formation in females, perhaps due to striatal estrogenic effects. 
Both sexes showed increased urinary cortisol during social separation stressor,
but females showed an earlier increase in cortisol and a greater increase in
agitated locomotion, possibly indicating enhanced stress reactivity. Independent 
of sex, basal cortisol predicted cognitive performance. No sex differences were
found in motor performance. Associations between brain networks and reversal
learning performance were investigated using resting state fMRI. Resting state
functional connectivity (rsFC) analyses revealed sex differences in cognitive
networks, with differences in overall neural network metrics and specific
regions, including the prefrontal cortex, caudate, putamen, and nucleus
accumbens. Correlations between cognitive flexibility and neural connectivity
indicate that sex differences in cognitive flexibility are related to
sex-dependent patterns of resting brain networks. Overall, our findings reveal
sex differences in reversal learning, brain networks, and their relationship in
the marmoset, positioning this species as an excellent model to investigate the
biological basis of cognitive sex differences.

Copyright © 2019 LaClair et al.

DOI: 10.1523/ENEURO.0154-19.2019 
PMCID: PMC6658914
PMID: 31262949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Yakugaku Zasshi. 2019;139(7):1007-1013. doi: 10.1248/yakushi.18-00165-4.

[Prion-like Propagation of Pathological α-Synuclein in Vivo].

[Article in Japanese]

Masuda-Suzukake M(1), Hasegawa M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Project, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science.

α-Synuclein (αS) is the major component of the filamentous inclusions that
constitute the defining characteristic of neurodegenerative synucleinopathies,
including Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and multiple system
atrophy. αS is deposited in a hyperphosphorylated and ubiquitinated form with a
β-sheet-rich fibrillar structure in diseased brains. In 2008, some researchers
reported that embryonic neurons transplanted into Parkinson's disease brains had 
Lewy body-like pathologies, suggesting that pathological αS propagates from
diseased neurons to young neurons. Subsequently, a growing body of evidence
supported the cell-to-cell spread of αS pathologies. Recent studies have revealed
that intracerebral injection of insoluble αS into wild-type mice can induce
prion-like propagation of phosphorylated αS pathology even 1 month after
injection, while injection into αS-knockout mice failed to induce any pathology. 
We also showed that intracerebral injection of insoluble αS into adult common
marmoset brains results in the spreading of abundant αS pathology. These in vivo 
experiments clearly indicate that insoluble αS has prion-like properties and that
it propagates through neural networks. The underlying mechanisms of αS
propagation are still poorly understood, but αS propagation model animals could
be helpful in elucidating the pathogenetic mechanisms and developing drugs for
synucleinopathies.

DOI: 10.1248/yakushi.18-00165-4 
PMID: 31257247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

