

4721. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1983 May;18(5):701-4.

Further consideration of the learning impairment after aceperone in the marmoset:
effects of the drug on shape and colour discrimination and on an alternation
task.

Baker HF, Ridley RM, Haystead TA, Crow TJ.

Ten marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) learned to discriminate between pairs of small
grey objects differing only in shape or small plain plaques differing only in
colour, in a Wisconsin General Test Apparatus. Each day, each animal was
presented with three consecutive visual discrimination problems in the order
shape-colour-shape or colour-shape-colour. After aceperone, an
alpha-noradrenergic antagonist, animals were impaired at learning the first but
not the subsequent tasks of each trio. These results suggest that the previously 
observed impairment [10] on the first of a pair of object discrimination tasks
after aceperone is a consequence of disruption of a mechanism common to both
shape and colour discrimination learning. The fact that there is no impairment on
task 2 in a dimension differing from task 1 suggests that the deficit is not one 
of attending to, or switching attention to, the appropriate visual dimension.
Three further marmosets were trained to perform an alternation task and tested
under aceperone. No impairment in performance was seen, suggesting that a variety
of cognitive skills other than stimulus-reward association were intact. We
conclude that the impairment following aceperone is a dysfunction of processes
involved in association formation, but that it is one which is manifest only when
the animal is faced with a type of task which has not recently been performed and
that it can be overcome with persistence even the animal encounters novel
stimuli.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(83)90009-6 
PMID: 6222386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4722. Rev Saude Publica. 1983 Apr;17(2):130-7.

[Biochemistry of schistosomiasis mansoni. V. - Mitochondrial activity in the
livers and the kidneys of marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) infested with
Schistosoma mansoni].

[Article in Portuguese]

Rodrigues LE, Costa Mde F, Nascimento RJ, Mir√°glia T.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101983000200007 
PMID: 6648296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

