

4723. Acta Pharmacol Toxicol (Copenh). 1983 Apr;52(4):310-3.

Placental transfer of hexachlorophene (HCP) in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Brandt I, Dencker L, Larsson KS, Siddall RA.

Autoradiography was used to study the distribution of
2,2'-14C-methylene-bis-(3,4,6-trichlorophenol) (HCP) in pregnant marmoset monkeys
in early (day 30-50) and late (around day 120) gestation and in a newborn (11
days old) pup. Radioactivity was present in the conceptus at all stages of
gestation, although the foetal concentration was lower than the maternal. In the 
embryo an accumulation was observed in the neural tube and in the embryonic
membranes. In the late foetus and newborn monkey the highest concentration of
radioactivity was found in the liver and the intestinal contents. The brain of
the adult and newborn animals showed low concentration. A partial blood-brain
barrier was present in the late foetus but, in relation to other tissues, the
foetal brain concentration was higher than that of the mother.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0773.1983.tb01106.x 
PMID: 6408890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4724. Lab Anim. 1983 Apr;17(2):111-3.

Respiratory disease associated with parainfluenza Type I (Sendai) virus in a
colony of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Flecknell PA, Parry R, Needham JR, Ridley RM, Baker HF, Bowes P.

An outbreak of acute respiratory disease was observed in a colony of marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). Parainfluenza Type I (Sendai) virus was isolated from the
lungs and from throat swabs of 2 animals which showed clinical signs of disease. 
A rising titre of serum neutralizing antibody to the virus isolated was detected 
in several affected animals. Approximately 50% of the colony showed clinical
signs of disease, and 3 animals died. The duration of illness ranged from 3 to 16
days.

DOI: 10.1258/002367783780959448 
PMID: 6306336  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

