

4726. J Reprod Fertil. 1983 Mar;67(2):457-63.

Plasma testosterone response to hCG stimulation in the male marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Kholkute SD, Aitken RJ, Lunn SF.

In adult animals the intramuscular injection of hCG was followed by a rapid rise 
in plasma testosterone levels within 2-3 h and at doses of 40 and 80 i.u. hCG
this primary response was followed by a second peak of testosterone at 48 h.
Prepubertal marmosets also responded to hCG stimulation with a rapid increase in 
plasma testosterone levels within 3 h, but the magnitude of this peak was lower
than that observed in adult animals and no biphasic pattern was observed. In
adult and prepubertal animals a second dose of hCG (40 i.u.) administered 24 h
after the initial injection failed to produce a further rapid increment in plasma
testosterone levels.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0670457 
PMID: 6403699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4727. J Endocrinol. 1983 Mar;96(3):443-50.

Sex steroids and their relationship to binding proteins in the serum of the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK, Eastman SA, Jenkins N.

A sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) similar to human SHBG was identified in
marmoset serum based on its gel electrophoretic mobility, isoelectric point and
steroid binding properties. Levels of serum SHBG were measured in immature and
mature males, immature females and females during the luteal phase and pregnancy;
serum progesterone, 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5 alpha-DHT), testosterone,
oestradiol-17 beta and oestrone were also measured. Mean (+/- S.E.M.)
concentrations of SHBG in immature males (336 +/- 19 nmol/l) were higher (P less 
than 0.01) than those in mature males (251 +/- 13 nmol/l), whereas values in the 
groups of females were similar (359 +/- 12, 395 +/- 17, 397 +/- 39 nmol/l in
immature, non-pregnant and pregnant females respectively). There was an inverse
relationship between SHBG and the levels of testosterone (r = -0.67) and 5
alpha-DHT (r = -0.86) in males, but the correlation was significant (P less than 
0.05) only for 5 alpha-DHT. There was no correlation between levels of SHBG and
oestrogens in males or between levels of SHBG and any of the steroids measured in
females. Equilibrium dialysis was used to assess the percentage of steroid in
serum in the unbound form. Mean percentage values for unbound testosterone and 5 
alpha-DHT were lower in immature males than in mature males (P less than 0.01)
and negatively correlated with levels of SHBG (r = -0.78, testosterone; r =
-0.56, 5 alpha-DHT).

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.0960443 
PMID: 6403644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

