

4727. J Endocrinol. 1983 Mar;96(3):443-50.

Sex steroids and their relationship to binding proteins in the serum of the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK, Eastman SA, Jenkins N.

A sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) similar to human SHBG was identified in
marmoset serum based on its gel electrophoretic mobility, isoelectric point and
steroid binding properties. Levels of serum SHBG were measured in immature and
mature males, immature females and females during the luteal phase and pregnancy;
serum progesterone, 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5 alpha-DHT), testosterone,
oestradiol-17 beta and oestrone were also measured. Mean (+/- S.E.M.)
concentrations of SHBG in immature males (336 +/- 19 nmol/l) were higher (P less 
than 0.01) than those in mature males (251 +/- 13 nmol/l), whereas values in the 
groups of females were similar (359 +/- 12, 395 +/- 17, 397 +/- 39 nmol/l in
immature, non-pregnant and pregnant females respectively). There was an inverse
relationship between SHBG and the levels of testosterone (r = -0.67) and 5
alpha-DHT (r = -0.86) in males, but the correlation was significant (P less than 
0.05) only for 5 alpha-DHT. There was no correlation between levels of SHBG and
oestrogens in males or between levels of SHBG and any of the steroids measured in
females. Equilibrium dialysis was used to assess the percentage of steroid in
serum in the unbound form. Mean percentage values for unbound testosterone and 5 
alpha-DHT were lower in immature males than in mature males (P less than 0.01)
and negatively correlated with levels of SHBG (r = -0.78, testosterone; r =
-0.56, 5 alpha-DHT).

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.0960443 
PMID: 6403644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4728. Br J Pharmacol. 1983 Mar;78(3):579-89.

Therapy of organophosphate poisoning: the marmoset as a model for man.

van Helden HP, van der Wiel HJ, Wolthuis OL.

1 The ability of various bis-pyridinium oximes to restore
organophosphate-inhibited neuromuscular transmission in vitro was compared in
human intercostal and marmoset diaphragm muscles. 2 HI-6
(2-hydroxyiminomethyl-pyridinium-1-methyl-4'-carbamoyl-pyridinium-1'-methyl ether
dichloride monohydrate) appeared very effective against VX (O-ethyl
S-2-diisopropylaminoethyl methylphosphonothioate) and sarin in both muscles,
whereas obidoxim was quite effective against tabun. 3 Against soman, HI-6, HS-6
(2-hydroxyiminomethyl-pyridinium-1-methyl-3'-carbamoyl-pyridinium-1'-methyl ether
dichloride dihydrate) and obidoxim had little effect in the human muscle and only
slight activity in the marmoset muscle; HGG-12
(2-hydroxyiminomethyl-pyridinium-1-methyl-3'-phenylcarbonyl-pyridinium-1'-methy l
ether dichloride) and benzyl-P2A (1-benzyl-2-hydroxyiminomethyl-pyridinium
methanesulphonate) were ineffective. 4 Anaesthetized, atropinized marmosets were 
poisoned with soman (4 X LD50, i.v.) and subsequently treated with HI-6, HS-6 or 
HGG-12. Only HI-6 and HS-6 were marginally effective in restoring respiration and
neuromuscular transmission. 5 Marmoset muscle is a reasonable model for human
muscle for the study of organophosphate poisoning and therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1983.tb08818.x 
PMCID: PMC2044728
PMID: 6301602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

