

4731. Am J Primatol. 1983;4(2):159-163. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350040207.

The black-tailed marmoset (Callithrix argentata melanura) recorded from paraguay.

Stallings JR(1), Mittermeier RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Florida State Museum, University of Florida, Gainesville.
(2)World Wildlife Fund US, Washington, DC, and Department of Anatomical Sciences,
SUNY, Stony Brook, New York.

The black-tailed marmoset (Callithrix argentata melanura) occurs in
central-western Brazil and adjacent parts of Bolivia, and is the only member of
the genus (Callithrix) to occur naturally outside Brazil. Data presented in this 
paper extend the range of this marmoset at least 200 km to the southwest into yet
another country, Paraguay.

Copyright © 1983 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350040207 
PMID: 31991957 


4732. Gegenbaurs Morphol Jahrb. 1983;129(6):783-98.

[Reissner's fiber in the central canal of primate spinal cord].

[Article in German]

Erhardt H, Meinel W.

The Reissner's fibre (RF) in the canalis centralis of the spinal cord was studied
with the aid of transmission and scanning electron microscope in Tupaia, Cebus,
Sarmiri, Macaca, Alouatta, Ateles, Callithrix and Callicebus. The RF of the
primates is structurally not different from the corresponding structure of other 
chordates. The diameter of the RF is slightly increasing in the canalis
direction. The increase of the diameter varies between 2 and 5 micron. It is
assumed that the increase is brought about by the inclusion of cell debris into
the fibre. Material which definitely does not belong to the RF is found in the
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of the canalis centralis and occasionally it adheres to
the surface of the fibre. This material appears either as amorphous flocculent
substances, the granulation of which differs in both density and size of the
granula or as vesicles. If the material makes contact with the RF, a
membrane-like structure may appear which is a condensation restricted to the area
of the contact between material of different viscosity and granulation. The
origin of this variable material is still not clarified. According to our
observations, it is probably sequestrated material from ependymal cells. It is
not a secretion as sometimes assumed since the intracellular processes of the
synthesis of the secretion have not been observed.


PMID: 6674014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

