

4738. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1983;41(1-2):124-8.

Taste thresholds for tryptophan in seven nonhuman primate species.

Hobi G, Glaser D.

DOI: 10.1159/000156122 
PMID: 6418624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4739. J Reprod Fertil. 1983 Jan;67(1):73-82.

Levels of circulating and urinary oestrogens during pregnancy in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK, Brand H, Henderson C, Kelly RW.

The levels of immunoreactive oestrone, oestradiol-17 beta and oestriol in plasma 
and urine were measured during early, mid- and late pregnancy in the marmoset
monkey. In plasma, unconjugated oestrone remained less than 2% of total
(conjugated plus unconjugated) oestrone throughout gestation, whereas
unconjugated oestradiol-17 beta increased from 3% of the total value in early and
mid-pregnancy to 35% in late pregnancy. The reversal in the unconjugated
oestrone: oestradiol-17 beta concentration ratio from early (12:1) to late (0 .
15:1) pregnancy occurred despite the continuing predominance of oestrone in terms
of total hormone. Total oestriol was measurable but in relatively low
concentrations. Oestradiol conjugate was the predominant urinary oestrogen
metabolite measured at each stage of pregnancy. The pattern of urinary oestrone
and oestradiol-17 beta reflected plasma levels of total hormone, rather than
unconjugated hormone, showing no further increase after mid-pregnancy. In
contrast, oestriol increased throughout pregnancy and to a proportionately
greater extent than oestrone or oestradiol-17 beta, but at lower absolute levels.
High-pressure liquid chromatography of urine extract indicated the presence of
considerable amounts of oestrogen immunoreactivity not accounted for by oestrone,
oestradiol-17 beta and oestriol and with a retention time similar to that of 16
alpha-hydroxyoestrone. Gas chromatography and mass spectroscopy provided further 
evidence to suggest that 16 alpha-hydroxyoestrone is an abundant urinary
oestrogen metabolite during pregnancy in the marmoset monkey.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0670073 
PMID: 6401813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

