

4745. Clin Exp Hypertens A. 1983;5(7-8):1237-47.

Inhibition of renin in the primate Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset).

Hofbauer KG, Ménard J, Michel JB, Wood JM.

The effects of an antiserum against human kidney renin and of H-142, a peptide
inhibitor of human renin, were studied in the primate Callithrix jacchus (common 
marmoset). In severely volume-depleted (low-salt diet and repetitive injections
of furosemide), conscious marmosets, the antiserum reduced blood pressure to the 
same extent as the converting enzyme inhibitor teprotide (-31 +/- 7 SEM mmHg and 
-30 +/- 5 mmHg). In mildly volume-depleted (normal salt diet and single injection
of furosemide), conscious marmosets, H-142 and teprotide induced a similar fall
in blood pressure (-14 +/- 4 mmHg and -15 +/- 2 mmHg). When H-142 was infused
after the injection of teprotide, it had no further effect on blood pressure.
Conversely, teprotide was ineffective when injected during the infusion of H-142.
These results show that in marmosets blood pressure can be lowered by specific
inhibitors of human renin. A converting-enzyme inhibitor has similar effects.
Hence the renin-angiotensin system appears to contribute significantly to the
maintenance of blood pressure in conscious, volume-depleted marmosets.

DOI: 10.3109/10641968309048854 
PMID: 6196144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4746. Teratog Carcinog Mutagen. 1983;3(3):219-30.

Transplacental and direct exposure of mouse and marmoset to ethylnitrosourea:
analysis of chromosome aberrations.

Theiss I, Basler A, Röhrborn G.

The effect of ethylnitrosourea (ENU) on chromosomes of mouse bone marrow cells
and transplacentally exposed embryonic liver cells was investigated. Chromosome
aberrations were found to be dose- and time-dependent. The maximum damage was
seen 6 h after the exposure. Chromosome aberrations were also induced in bone
marrow cells and lymphocytes of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) directly exposed
to ENU. Aberrations did not, however, occur in offspring whose mothers were
treated with ENU before conception. Furthermore, chronic transplacentally exposed
offspring have been analyzed. The frequency of chromosome aberrations was not
increased in their lymphocytes and fibroblasts. The elimination of chromosome
aberrations during embryogenesis is discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/1520-6866(1990)3:3<219::aid-tcm1770030302>3.0.co;2-5 
PMID: 6137079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

