

4746. Teratog Carcinog Mutagen. 1983;3(3):219-30.

Transplacental and direct exposure of mouse and marmoset to ethylnitrosourea:
analysis of chromosome aberrations.

Theiss I, Basler A, RÃ¶hrborn G.

The effect of ethylnitrosourea (ENU) on chromosomes of mouse bone marrow cells
and transplacentally exposed embryonic liver cells was investigated. Chromosome
aberrations were found to be dose- and time-dependent. The maximum damage was
seen 6 h after the exposure. Chromosome aberrations were also induced in bone
marrow cells and lymphocytes of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) directly exposed
to ENU. Aberrations did not, however, occur in offspring whose mothers were
treated with ENU before conception. Furthermore, chronic transplacentally exposed
offspring have been analyzed. The frequency of chromosome aberrations was not
increased in their lymphocytes and fibroblasts. The elimination of chromosome
aberrations during embryogenesis is discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/1520-6866(1990)3:3<219::aid-tcm1770030302>3.0.co;2-5 
PMID: 6137079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4747. J Hyg (Lond). 1982 Dec;89(3):449-55.

The pathogenicity of a newly discovered human mycoplasma (strain G37) for the
genital tract of marmosets.

Taylor-Robinson D, Furr PM, Hetherington CM.

In an attempt to demonstrate the pathogenicity of a newly discovered mycoplasma
(strain G37) isolated from the human genital tract, six female marmosets
(Callithix jacchus) were inoculated intravaginally. Four of the animals were
infected as indicated by repeated recovery of the organisms on vaginal swabbing, 
and infection persisted for 72-149 days or more. In addition, the infected
marmosets exhibited a serum antibody response detected most easily by an
immunofluorescence technique, and a persistent vaginal polymorphonuclear
leucocyte response not seen in two uninfected and in two uninoculated animals.

DOI: 10.1017/s0022172400071011 
PMCID: PMC2134238
PMID: 7153510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

