

4749. Endocrinology. 1982 Dec;111(6):1797-802.

Rapid regression of fetal adrenal zone and absence of adrenal reticular zone in
the marmoset.

Levine J, Wolfe LG, Schiebinger RJ, Loriaux DL, Cutler GB Jr.

Developmental changes in plasma dehydropiandrosterone (DHA) and in adrenal
histology were studied in several marmoset species (Callithrix jacchus and
Saguinus labiatus, nigricollis, and fuscicollis) to evaluate these primates as
experimental models for the study of fetal adrenal zone regression. Newborn
marmosets had a prominent fetal adrenal zone, plasma DHA levels above 1000 ng/dl,
and plasma DHA sulfate (DHAS) levels of 140 micrograms/dl. The fetal zone
regressed dramatically during the first week of life, paralleled by a marked
decline in plasma DHA, the plasma DHA to cortisol ratio, and plasma DHAS. The
adult marmoset, however, had no adrenal reticular zone and no evidence of adrenal
DHA secretion; DHA levels in castrate adults were undetectable (less than 25
ng/dl). Thus, the marmoset represents the first example of a primate that has a
regressing, DHA- and DHAS-secreting fetal adrenal zone but that does not
subsequently develop a DHA-secreting adrenal reticular zone.

DOI: 10.1210/endo-111-6-1797 
PMID: 6216097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4750. Neuroscience. 1982 Oct;7(10):2377-88.

The distribution and some morphological features of substantia nigra neurons that
project to the thalamus, superior colliculus and pedunculopontine nucleus in the 
monkey.

Beckstead RM, Frankfurter A.

Neurons of the substantia nigra's pars reticulata that send axons to the
thalamus, superior colliculus and midbrain reticular formation (including the
pedunculopontine nucleus) have been revealed in monkeys by the technique of
retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. The populations of nigrothalamic,
nigrotectal and nigroreticular neurons differ from one another in their number,
intranigral distribution and somatodendritic size and shape. Nigrothalamic cells 
are the most abundant and, although scattered throughout the mediolateral expanse
of the pars reticulata, their numbers progressively diminish from rostral to
caudal levels. Nigrotectal cells are least numerous and are restricted almost
exclusively to the lateral margin of the rostral one-half of the pars reticulata.
Nigroreticular cells, like nigrothalamic, are scattered throughout the
mediolateral dimension of the nucleus, but are more commonly located at middle to
caudal levels. In addition to their restricted intranigral location, the
nigrotectal cells are larger, polygonal and have more major dendritic processes
than the smaller nigrothalamic and nigroreticular cells which are usually
triangular or fusiform. A small proportion of cells of all three types appears to
project contralaterally. These findings indicate that the efferent organization
of the primate pars reticulata differs markedly from that of the rodent and the
monkey's nigrotectal cells constitute a spatially and morphologically distinct
subpopulation within the pars reticulata. These data should be useful in
understanding the functional organization of topographic inputs to the pars
reticulata such as that from the neostriatum.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(82)90202-0 
PMID: 7177379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

