

475. Front Neuroanat. 2019 Jun 6;13:60. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00060. eCollection
2019.

Anatomical and Surgical Evaluation of the Common Marmoset as an Animal Model in
Hearing Research.

Kurihara S(1)(2), Fujioka M(3), Hata J(2), Yoshida T(2), Hirabayashi M(1)(2),
Yamamoto Y(1), Ogawa K(3), Kojima H(1), Okano HJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Division of Regenerative Medicine, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Recent studies have indicated that direct administration of viral vectors or
small compounds to the inner ear may aid in the treatment of Sensorineural
hearing loss (SNHL). However, due to species differences between humans and
rodents, translating experimental results into clinical applications remains
challenging. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, is
considered a pre-clinical animal model. In the present study, we describe
morphometric data acquired from the temporal bone of the common marmoset in order
to define the routes of topical drug administration to the inner ear. Dissection 
and diffusion tensor tractography (DTT) were performed on the fixed cadaverous
heads of 13 common marmosets. To investigate potential routes for drug
administration to the inner ear, we explored the anatomy of the round window,
oval window (OW), semicircular canal, and endolymphatic sac (ES). Among these,
the approach via the round window with posterior tympanotomy appeared feasible
for delivering drugs to the inner ear without manipulating the tympanic membrane,
minimizing the chances of conductive hearing loss. The courses of four critical
nerves [including the facial nerve (FN)] were visualized using three-dimensional 
(3D) DTT, which may help to avoid nerve damage during surgery. Finally, to
investigate the feasibility of actual drug administration, we measured the volume
of the round window niche (RWN), which was approximately 0.9 μL. The present
findings may help to establish experimental standards for evaluating new
therapies in this primate model.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00060 
PMCID: PMC6563828
PMID: 31244619 


476. Biosci Rep. 2019 Jul 8;39(7). pii: BSR20190562. doi: 10.1042/BSR20190562. Print
2019 Jul 31.

Measurement of the α1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-antitrypsin) of common marmoset
and intestinal protein loss in wasting syndrome.

Niimi K(1), Morishita H(2), Usui M(2), Ito R(2), Kurata S(2), Mataga N(2),
Takahashi E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Support Unit for Animal Resources Development, Research Resources Division,
RIKEN Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan
eiki.takahashi@riken.jp kimie.niimi@riken.jp.
(2)Support Unit for Bio-Material Analysis, Research Resources Division, RIKEN
Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Although wasting marmoset syndrome (WMS) is one of the biggest problems facing
captive marmoset colonies, the mechanisms underlying its pathogenesis remain
unclear. In our clinical experience, it is difficult to cure WMS-affected
marmosets with severe hypoalbuminemia. Thus, the mechanisms underlying
hypoalbuminemia in WMS must be understood. In the present study, we investigated 
whether intestinal protein loss, a known reason for hypoalbuminemia, occurs in
this disease. Fecal α1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-PI, also known as α1-antitrypsin)
has been used to diagnose intestinal protein loss in other species. To develop an
assay system for this protein, marmoset α1-PI was purified from plasma and
antibodies against it were developed using the purified protein. Using the
antibodies, a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure
marmoset α1-PI was developed, and its detection sensitivity for fecal samples was
∼20-fold higher than that of a commercial kit for human α1-PI. From this ELISA,
the reference intervals for serum and feces of healthy marmosets were 0.87-1.85
mg/ml and 0.53-395.58 μg/g, respectively. The average concentrations of α1-PI in 
serum and feces of seven WMS-affected marmosets were 1.17 mg/ml and 1357.58 μg/g,
respectively. Although there were no significant differences in the serum
concentrations between healthy and WMS-affected marmosets, the fecal
concentrations were significantly higher in WMS-affected marmosets than in
healthy individuals, suggesting that intestinal protein loss occurs in WMS.
Intestinal protein loss of WMS-affected marmosets was significantly attenuated
with treatment, suggesting that it is one of the mechanisms involved in the
hypoalbuminemia observed in WMS.

© 2019 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20190562 
PMCID: PMC6614574
PMID: 31243120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

