

4750. Neuroscience. 1982 Oct;7(10):2377-88.

The distribution and some morphological features of substantia nigra neurons that
project to the thalamus, superior colliculus and pedunculopontine nucleus in the 
monkey.

Beckstead RM, Frankfurter A.

Neurons of the substantia nigra's pars reticulata that send axons to the
thalamus, superior colliculus and midbrain reticular formation (including the
pedunculopontine nucleus) have been revealed in monkeys by the technique of
retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. The populations of nigrothalamic,
nigrotectal and nigroreticular neurons differ from one another in their number,
intranigral distribution and somatodendritic size and shape. Nigrothalamic cells 
are the most abundant and, although scattered throughout the mediolateral expanse
of the pars reticulata, their numbers progressively diminish from rostral to
caudal levels. Nigrotectal cells are least numerous and are restricted almost
exclusively to the lateral margin of the rostral one-half of the pars reticulata.
Nigroreticular cells, like nigrothalamic, are scattered throughout the
mediolateral dimension of the nucleus, but are more commonly located at middle to
caudal levels. In addition to their restricted intranigral location, the
nigrotectal cells are larger, polygonal and have more major dendritic processes
than the smaller nigrothalamic and nigroreticular cells which are usually
triangular or fusiform. A small proportion of cells of all three types appears to
project contralaterally. These findings indicate that the efferent organization
of the primate pars reticulata differs markedly from that of the rodent and the
monkey's nigrotectal cells constitute a spatially and morphologically distinct
subpopulation within the pars reticulata. These data should be useful in
understanding the functional organization of topographic inputs to the pars
reticulata such as that from the neostriatum.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(82)90202-0 
PMID: 7177379  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4751. J Reprod Fertil. 1982 Sep;66(1):95-100.

Localization of delta 5-3 beta- and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity
in the efferent ducts, epididymis and vas deferens of the rabbit, hamster and
marmoset monkey.

Prakash A, Moore HD.

The presence and distribution of delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase
(delta 5-3 beta-HSD: EC 1.1.1.51) and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17
beta-HSD: EC 1.1.1.51) were studied histochemically in the excurrent ducts of the
rabbit, hamster and marmoset monkey. Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and
testosterone were used as substrates for delta 5-3 beta-HSD and 17 beta-HSD
respectively, while phenanthroline monohydrate was used to eliminate non-specific
staining due to other tissue dehydrogenases. The rabbit possessed least enzyme
activity, which was confined to tubules in the middle segment of the epididymis. 
Enzyme activity was demonstrable throughout the excurrent ducts of the hamster
and marmoset, with maximal staining occurring in the middle segment of the
epididymis in both species. The region of maximum activity of hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase is where spermatozoa first develop their fertilizing capacity.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0660095 
PMID: 6214628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

