

4751. J Reprod Fertil. 1982 Sep;66(1):95-100.

Localization of delta 5-3 beta- and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activity
in the efferent ducts, epididymis and vas deferens of the rabbit, hamster and
marmoset monkey.

Prakash A, Moore HD.

The presence and distribution of delta 5-3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase
(delta 5-3 beta-HSD: EC 1.1.1.51) and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17
beta-HSD: EC 1.1.1.51) were studied histochemically in the excurrent ducts of the
rabbit, hamster and marmoset monkey. Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and
testosterone were used as substrates for delta 5-3 beta-HSD and 17 beta-HSD
respectively, while phenanthroline monohydrate was used to eliminate non-specific
staining due to other tissue dehydrogenases. The rabbit possessed least enzyme
activity, which was confined to tubules in the middle segment of the epididymis. 
Enzyme activity was demonstrable throughout the excurrent ducts of the hamster
and marmoset, with maximal staining occurring in the middle segment of the
epididymis in both species. The region of maximum activity of hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase is where spermatozoa first develop their fertilizing capacity.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0660095 
PMID: 6214628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4752. Allergol Immunopathol (Madr). 1982 Sep-Oct;10(5):381-3.

Skin reaction in Callithrix jacchus penicillata to phytohemagglutinin.

Cardoso RR, Magalhaes-Castro B, Alves C Jr.

Sixty marmosets (Callithrix jacchus penicillata) were intradermally tested with
phytohemagglutinin. It was possible to classify this population into three groups
on the basis of the reactions: 1. negatives, 2. those which showed just local
hemorrhage, and finally 3. a group which developed a wheal as well as hemorrhage.
The biopsy at the site of the reaction demonstrated several microscopic foci.
This finding contrasted with the homogeneous cellular infiltration found in the
human controls.


PMID: 6187198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

