

4756. Br J Audiol. 1982 May;16(2):131-7.

Improved morphological techniques for screening potentially ototoxic compounds in
laboratory animals.

Astbury PJ, Read NG.

A technique is described for morphological examination of the organ of Corti
which can be used in routine toxicological studies. This involves the dissection 
of a critical point-dried cochlea and examination of a surface preparation of the
entire organ by scanning electron microscopy. The procedure is simple and far
less time consuming than that previously used for light microscopy. Quantitative 
estimates of damage induced in the organ of Corti either by the administration of
ototoxic compounds or as a response to noise-induced or age-related changes can
be obtained. Details are given for the application of this technique to two
species commonly used in toxicity studies. With minor modifications it could be
applied to many other species of animal.

DOI: 10.3109/03005368209081458 
PMID: 7046864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4757. Eur J Immunol. 1982 May;12(5):446-8.

Analysis of DR-like molecules on a marmoset Epstein-Barr virus-induced cell line 
using a monomorphic anti-human HLA-DR monoclonal antibody.

Teillaud JL, Charron D, Goujet-Zalc C, Mahouy G.

Mouse anti-HLA D region-related (DR) monoclonal antibodies have been found to
cross-react with peripheral blood leukocytes from one primate species, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Immunoprecipitates of radioactively labeled cells 
extracted from a marmoset Epstein-Barr virus-induced cell line were analyzed by
one- and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and compared with the DR antigens of
a human lymphoblastoid B cell line. Two chains of estimated molecular weights of 
34 000 (alpha) and 28 000 (beta), similar to the human alpha and beta chains,
have been observed in marmoset immunoprecipitates. Additionally, a set of spots
located in the same area as the set of invariant spots found in human HLA-DR
antigens is shown by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Thus, cross-reacting
anti-human HLA-DR monoclonal antibodies could be used to analyze the expression
and the structure of marmoset DR-like antigens.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.1830120517 
PMID: 6284521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

