

4759. Lab Anim. 1982 Apr;16(2):186-8.

Organophosphate poisoning in marmosets.

Brack M, Rothe H.

Due to faulty use of a chlorpyriphos-diazinon combination as a pesticide within a
laboratory animal house, 19 marmosets of 2 species (Saguinus fuscicollis and
Callithrix jacchus) of 98 at risk died from organophosphorous poisoning (19%)
mortality). The clinical signs were those of cholinesterase inhibitors. The
morphological lesions consisted predominantly of haemorrhages in several organs, 
particularly the CNS, and of bone marrow necroses.

DOI: 10.1258/002367782781110061 
PMID: 6176756  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4760. J Anat. 1982 Mar;134(Pt 2):315-38.

Distribution of catecholamine and indoleamine neurons in the brain of the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Schofield SP, Dixson AF.

The distribution of monoamine neurons in the brains of ten common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) was examined by means of the Falck-Hillarp formaldehyde
histofluorescence technique. Large populations of catecholamine and indoleamine
neurons were found throughout the brain stem. Catecholamine cell bodies
corresponded essentially to th noradrenaline and dopamine groups defined as A1-A7
and A8-A14, respectively. In contrast to Old World primate species, however, the 
noradrenaline cell populations (particularly the pontine coeruleal A6 group) were
less numerous. Ascending catecholamine fibre pathways were not observed within
the medulla or pons, although numerous axons were found near the mesodiencephalic
border. These were fine and smooth in appearance in contrast to those of other
species and this finding may represent a significant morphological difference.
The catecholamine terminal innervation of the diencephalon was modest in the
marmoset and was less dense than in other primates. In contrast, limbic areas and
the striatum contained very large numbers of terminals. Indoleamine cell bodies, 
equivalent to the serotonin groups defined as B1-B9, were also observed. The most
rostral cell populations (B7-9) were large. In addition, pontine and medullary
indoleamine neurons extended laterally through the tegmentum as noted in other
primates, such that they often adjacent to catecholamine neurons. A prominent
bundle of indoleamine axons was observed in the mesencephalon and corresponded to
a fibre pathway seen in rodents and other primates. No terminal varicosities were
noted.


PMCID: PMC1167920
PMID: 6804424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

