

476. Biosci Rep. 2019 Jul 8;39(7). pii: BSR20190562. doi: 10.1042/BSR20190562. Print
2019 Jul 31.

Measurement of the α1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-antitrypsin) of common marmoset
and intestinal protein loss in wasting syndrome.

Niimi K(1), Morishita H(2), Usui M(2), Ito R(2), Kurata S(2), Mataga N(2),
Takahashi E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Support Unit for Animal Resources Development, Research Resources Division,
RIKEN Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan
eiki.takahashi@riken.jp kimie.niimi@riken.jp.
(2)Support Unit for Bio-Material Analysis, Research Resources Division, RIKEN
Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Although wasting marmoset syndrome (WMS) is one of the biggest problems facing
captive marmoset colonies, the mechanisms underlying its pathogenesis remain
unclear. In our clinical experience, it is difficult to cure WMS-affected
marmosets with severe hypoalbuminemia. Thus, the mechanisms underlying
hypoalbuminemia in WMS must be understood. In the present study, we investigated 
whether intestinal protein loss, a known reason for hypoalbuminemia, occurs in
this disease. Fecal α1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-PI, also known as α1-antitrypsin)
has been used to diagnose intestinal protein loss in other species. To develop an
assay system for this protein, marmoset α1-PI was purified from plasma and
antibodies against it were developed using the purified protein. Using the
antibodies, a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure
marmoset α1-PI was developed, and its detection sensitivity for fecal samples was
∼20-fold higher than that of a commercial kit for human α1-PI. From this ELISA,
the reference intervals for serum and feces of healthy marmosets were 0.87-1.85
mg/ml and 0.53-395.58 μg/g, respectively. The average concentrations of α1-PI in 
serum and feces of seven WMS-affected marmosets were 1.17 mg/ml and 1357.58 μg/g,
respectively. Although there were no significant differences in the serum
concentrations between healthy and WMS-affected marmosets, the fecal
concentrations were significantly higher in WMS-affected marmosets than in
healthy individuals, suggesting that intestinal protein loss occurs in WMS.
Intestinal protein loss of WMS-affected marmosets was significantly attenuated
with treatment, suggesting that it is one of the mechanisms involved in the
hypoalbuminemia observed in WMS.

© 2019 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20190562 
PMCID: PMC6614574
PMID: 31243120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Proc Biol Sci. 2019 Jun 26;286(1905):20190817. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2019.0817. Epub 
2019 Jun 26.

Long-lasting vocal plasticity in adult marmoset monkeys.

Zhao L(1), Rad BB(2), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical
Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine , Baltimore, MD
21205 , USA.
(2)2 Department of Biological Sciences, Towson University , Towson, MD 21252 ,
USA.

Humans exhibit a high level of vocal plasticity in speech production, which
allows us to acquire both native and foreign languages and dialects, and adapt to
local accents in social communication. In comparison, non-human primates exhibit 
limited vocal plasticity, especially in adulthood, which would limit their
ability to adapt to different social and environmental contexts in vocal
communication. Here, we quantitatively examined the ability of adult common
marmosets ( Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate species, to
modulate their vocal production in social contexts. While recent studies have
demonstrated vocal learning in developing marmosets, we know much less about the 
extent of vocal learning and plasticity in adult marmosets. We found, in the
present study, that marmosets were able to adaptively modify the spectrotemporal 
structure of their vocalizations when they encountered interfering sounds. Our
experiments showed that marmosets shifted the spectrum of their vocalizations
away from the spectrum of the interfering sounds in order to avoid the overlap.
More interestingly, we found that marmosets made predictive and long-lasting
spectral shifts in their vocalizations after they had experienced a particular
type of interfering sound. These observations provided evidence for directional
control of the vocalization spectrum and long-term vocal plasticity by adult
marmosets. The findings reported here have important implications for the ability
of this New World primate species in voluntarily and adaptively controlling their
vocal production in social communication.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2019.0817 
PMCID: PMC6599999
PMID: 31238841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

