

4766. Am J Primatol. 1982;2(1):3-19. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350020103.

Comparative anatomy of brain monoaminergic neurons in New World and Old World
monkeys.

Schofield SPM(1), Dixson AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, The Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park, London.

A comparison of the distribution of brain monoamine neurons in several New World 
and Old World monkeys was undertaken using the Falck-Hillarp formaldehyde
histofluorescence technique. The overall organization of the monoamine neurons
was very similar in all species, although subtle variations were found.
Catecholamine (noradrenaline and dopamine) and indoleamine (serotonin) cell
bodies corresponding to groups A1-A7, A8-A10, and B1-B9, respectively were found 
throughout the brainstem. A few catecholamine (dopamine) cells equivalent to
groups All and A12 in the diencephalon were also observed. Noradrenaline neurons,
rather than those of the dopamine and serotonin systems, tended to be less
numerous in the New World monkeys. Ascending catecholamine and indoleamine fiber 
bundles were observed in most monkeys. It is interesting that fibers
corresponding to the "ventral noradrenaline bundle" appeared to be much finer in 
the common marmoset and tamarin than in other species. In addition, a substantial
catecholamine (noradrenaline) innervation of the diencephalon was noted in all
the Old World monkeys, while a much lower overall terminal density was apparent
in the New World forms.

Copyright © 1982 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350020103 
PMID: 32197559 


4767. Am J Primatol. 1982;3(1-4):179-199. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350030117.

Clinical hematology of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Hawkey CM(1), Hart MG(1), Jones DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, London, England.

Hematological studies have been carried out on a group of 96 common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) on which full clinical histories were available. The group
included both healthy and sick animals. Reference values for red-cell,
white-cell, and platelet counts; hemoglobin levels; packed cell volumes; red- and
white-cell absolute values; reticulocyte counts; and fibrinogen levels were
calculated from results obtained in 43 clinically normal individuals. These
reference values have been used to identify hematological abnormalities in sick
animals so that relationships between the blood picture and the clinical findings
could be defined. Leucopenia, raised platelet counts, and high fibrinogen levels 
were found in animals with bacterial infections and carried poor prognosis. Heinz
bodies occurred in a significant number of the group as a whole, and were
associated with a variety of hematological and clinical abnormalities. These
findings illustrate the diagnostic and prognostic value of clinical hematology in
C. jacchus.

Copyright © 1982 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350030117 
PMID: 31991976 

