

4767. Am J Primatol. 1982;3(1-4):179-199. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350030117.

Clinical hematology of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Hawkey CM(1), Hart MG(1), Jones DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, London, England.

Hematological studies have been carried out on a group of 96 common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) on which full clinical histories were available. The group
included both healthy and sick animals. Reference values for red-cell,
white-cell, and platelet counts; hemoglobin levels; packed cell volumes; red- and
white-cell absolute values; reticulocyte counts; and fibrinogen levels were
calculated from results obtained in 43 clinically normal individuals. These
reference values have been used to identify hematological abnormalities in sick
animals so that relationships between the blood picture and the clinical findings
could be defined. Leucopenia, raised platelet counts, and high fibrinogen levels 
were found in animals with bacterial infections and carried poor prognosis. Heinz
bodies occurred in a significant number of the group as a whole, and were
associated with a variety of hematological and clinical abnormalities. These
findings illustrate the diagnostic and prognostic value of clinical hematology in
C. jacchus.

Copyright © 1982 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350030117 
PMID: 31991976 


4768. Anat Embryol (Berl). 1982;165(2):193-212.

Enamel microstructure determination in hominoid and cercopithecoid primates.

Boyde A, Martin L.

Enamel structure was determined in primate teeth by scanning electron microscopy.
It was found that the important organisational features of this tissue can be
determined solely from the examination of developing material and that
significant differences in internal structure of the mature tissue are reflected 
in differences in the surface (cell-matrix interface) of the developing tissue.
Several very conservative, relatively non-destructive techniques can be used to
acquire information from fully formed teeth, whereas the examination of small
areas of heavily etched mature tissue samples may be inadequate or provide biased
or misleading information. Pattern 3 prism packing occurs predominantly in
Hominoidea, Pattern 2 in Cercopithecoidea. Pattern 1 was found in the one
callitricid and the one lemur specimen studied.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00305477 
PMID: 7158810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

