

4784. J Reprod Fertil. 1981 Jul;62(2):353-60.

Plasma prolactin concentrations during the ovarian cycle and lactation and their 
relationship to return of fertility post partum in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

McNeilly AS, Abbott DH, Lunn SF, Chambers PC, Hearn JP.

A heterologous double-antibody radioimmunoassay was used to measure plasma
prolactin concentrations in 27 marmosets. The assay was valid for the marmoset
because plasma levels of prolactin were increased in response to TRH and
metoclopramide and suppressed in response to bromocriptine treatment. During the 
cycle there were no consistent changes in plasma prolactin concentrations. During
lactation mothers suckling single or twin infants had higher prolactin levels
than did non-suckling females and levels were highest with twins. No
statistically significant delay in the resumption of ovulation post partum was
observed for the suckling and non-suckling females; conception occurred in all
but one marmoset by 70 days post partum. These results show that neither the
suckling stimulus nor high levels of prolactin post partum delay the return of
ovulation and fertility in the common marmoset, a result in contrast to that for 
all other primate species so far investigated.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0620353 
PMID: 6788944  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4785. Mech Ageing Dev. 1981 Jun;16(2):181-9.

The relationship of DNA excision repair of ultraviolet-induced lesions to the
maximum life span of mammals.

Francis AA, Lee WH, Regan JD.

Physical and chemical agents present in the environment can potentially damage
mammalian DNA. Such damage is known in some cases to be repaired by the process
of DNA excision repair. This process has been extensively studied utilizing the
repair of ultraviolet irradiation damage as a model system. In this study we have
used this system and the 5-bromodeoxyuridine photolysis assay to measure DNA
excision repair in cells derived from 21 mammalian species. We have attempted to 
relate the DNA repair proficiencies and the average size of the repaired regions 
seen in the cell cultures with the various maximum life spans of the mammals
studied. There was an approximate linear correlation between life span of the
mammals and the number of DNA excision repair sites measured 20-22 hours
following ultraviolet irradiation of the cell cultures. Several deviations from
the linear relationships were observed which remain largely unexplained. The size
of the repaired regions was shown not to be related to the maximum life spans of 
the mammals tested.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90094-4 
PMID: 7266079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

