

4785. Mech Ageing Dev. 1981 Jun;16(2):181-9.

The relationship of DNA excision repair of ultraviolet-induced lesions to the
maximum life span of mammals.

Francis AA, Lee WH, Regan JD.

Physical and chemical agents present in the environment can potentially damage
mammalian DNA. Such damage is known in some cases to be repaired by the process
of DNA excision repair. This process has been extensively studied utilizing the
repair of ultraviolet irradiation damage as a model system. In this study we have
used this system and the 5-bromodeoxyuridine photolysis assay to measure DNA
excision repair in cells derived from 21 mammalian species. We have attempted to 
relate the DNA repair proficiencies and the average size of the repaired regions 
seen in the cell cultures with the various maximum life spans of the mammals
studied. There was an approximate linear correlation between life span of the
mammals and the number of DNA excision repair sites measured 20-22 hours
following ultraviolet irradiation of the cell cultures. Several deviations from
the linear relationships were observed which remain largely unexplained. The size
of the repaired regions was shown not to be related to the maximum life spans of 
the mammals tested.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(81)90094-4 
PMID: 7266079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4786. Int J Androl. 1981 Jun;4(3):321-30.

An assessment of the fertilizing ability of spermatozoa in the epididymis of the 
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Moore HD.

The fertilizing ability of spermatozoa from differ regions of the epididymis of
the marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, was assessed by determining their rate
of fusion with zonaless hamster ova in vitro. This technique tests for functional
competence and was validated using epididymal spermatozoa of the hamster whose
fertility have been measured previously by in vivo fertilization experiments. The
results suggest that some marmoset spermatozoa first acquire the ability to
fertilize in the distal caput and proximal corpus epididymidis although the
majority become fertile on reaching the proximal cauda region. Acquisition of
fertilizing capacity was associated with a change in the degree and character of 
sperm motility. However, it is considered that modifications to the sperm
plasmalemma which allow capacitation and the acrosome reaction to occur are of
primary importance for sperm fertility. The development of sperm fertilizing
ability in the marmoset is discussed in relation to that in other primates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1981.tb00716.x 
PMID: 7263089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

