

4786. Int J Androl. 1981 Jun;4(3):321-30.

An assessment of the fertilizing ability of spermatozoa in the epididymis of the 
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Moore HD.

The fertilizing ability of spermatozoa from differ regions of the epididymis of
the marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, was assessed by determining their rate
of fusion with zonaless hamster ova in vitro. This technique tests for functional
competence and was validated using epididymal spermatozoa of the hamster whose
fertility have been measured previously by in vivo fertilization experiments. The
results suggest that some marmoset spermatozoa first acquire the ability to
fertilize in the distal caput and proximal corpus epididymidis although the
majority become fertile on reaching the proximal cauda region. Acquisition of
fertilizing capacity was associated with a change in the degree and character of 
sperm motility. However, it is considered that modifications to the sperm
plasmalemma which allow capacitation and the acrosome reaction to occur are of
primary importance for sperm fertility. The development of sperm fertilizing
ability in the marmoset is discussed in relation to that in other primates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.1981.tb00716.x 
PMID: 7263089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4787. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1981 Jun;14(6):849-55.

A new approach to the role of noradrenaline in learning: problem-solving in the
marmoset after alpha-noradrenergic receptor blockade.

Ridley RM, Haystead TA, Baker HF, Crow TJ.

Nine marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were tested on a variety of visual
discrimination learning tasks in a Wisconsin General Test Apparatus with or
without alpha-noradrenergic receptor blockade achieved by the administration of
aceperone. After aceperone, animals were found to be severely and consistently
impaired at learning the first task of each test session and to be impaired on
new and repeated reversal learning. They were, however, unimpaired on learning
another similar task in each test session and on performance of a well-learnt
task. Results were interpreted as evidence for defective association formation
which can be compensated for by suitable priming or practice.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-3057(81)90373-7 
PMID: 6114497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

