

4791. Transplantation. 1981 Apr;31(4):245-50.

Immunological characterization of hemopoietic cells in the common marmoset,
rhesus monkey, and man. In search of a model for human marrow transplantation.

Crawford DH, Janossy G, Hetherington CM, Francis GE, Edwards AJ, Hoffbrand AV,
Prentice HG.

Bone marrow, lymphoid, and peripheral blood cells from the common marmoset and
rhesus monkey have been tested with a panel of heterologous and monoclonal
antibodies, and their reactivity pattern has been compared with that of blood and
bone marrow cells from human donors. Conventional antibodies reveal extensive
cross-reactivity within the B cell, T cell, and granulocytic systems in all three
species, however, some important differences have been exposed. Only the
monoclonal antibodies to HLA-A,B,C and Ia-like antigens react with marmoset
cells, and we have exploited this finding to show that the vast majority of
colony-forming units (CFU-c) in the marmoset bone marrow (as in man) are Ia
positive. The use of the common marmoset as a suitable model for human bone
marrow transplantation is discussed in the light of these findings.

DOI: 10.1097/00007890-198104000-00003 
PMID: 6784292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4792. Brain Res. 1981 Mar 2;207(2):453-8.

Demonstration of ocular dominance columns in a New World primate by means of
monocular deprivation.

DeBruyn EJ, Casagrande VA.

We investigated the pattern transneuronally transported [3H]proline to the visual
cortex of normal and deprived marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). In the normal
marmoset a continuous band of label was evident within layer IV of striate
cortex. Following injection of the closed eye of deprived marmosets, distinct
fluctuations of label were apparent over the base of layer IV in both
hemispheres. These results support the hypothesis that the presence of ocular
separation of geniculo-striate afferents is a feature common to all primates.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(81)90378-4 
PMID: 6162527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

