

4803. Lab Anim. 1981 Jan;15(1):7-11.

Husbandry and breeding of a newly-established colony of cotton-topped tamarins
(Saguinus oedipus oedipus).

Brand HM.

From November 1976 to February 1979 a total of 8 litters were born to 6 females. 
Of the 14 infants, 10 were successfully reared by their parents. Housing,
nutrition, a balance between environmental stability and stimulation, and female 
multiparity are seen as factors contributing to the breeding success of this
colony. A controlled male and female pairing programme provided information on
mating behavior and gestation length. One gestation of at least 166 days was
observed, longer than that of the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1258/002367781780958685 
PMID: 6790834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4804. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1981;73(3):252-6.

Pharmacologic manipulations of brain catecholamines and the behavior of
Callithrix jacchus (marmoset).

Campos F, Arruda F.

In experiment 1, groups of marmosets were injected with 50 - 200 mg/kg L-dopa,
0.5 - 2.0 mg/kg apomorphine (AP), or 0.5 - 5.0 mg/kg methamphetamine. The number 
of head movements, number of body movements, number of times the tongue was
extended, and the time the animal remained in an upright posture were scored
during a 90-min period after the injections. L-Dopa and AP induced large
dose-dependent increases in body movements and time in upright posture.
Furthermore, the smallest dose of AP induced self-destructive behavior. The main 
effect produced by methamphetamine was a constant turning of the head with the
body remaining still. In experiment 2, the marmosets were treated with
alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT) or haloperidol prior to challenge with AP or
methamphetamine. Haloperidol blocked most of the effects of both drugs, while
AMPT blocked only methamphetamine effects. In experiment 3, marmosets were
injected with increasing doses of haloperidol for 22 days. Upon withdrawal of the
neuroleptic, methamphetamine and AP effects were not increased, suggesting
absence of supersensitivity of dopaminergic receptors.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00422412 
PMID: 6787644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

