

4804. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1981;73(3):252-6.

Pharmacologic manipulations of brain catecholamines and the behavior of
Callithrix jacchus (marmoset).

Campos F, Arruda F.

In experiment 1, groups of marmosets were injected with 50 - 200 mg/kg L-dopa,
0.5 - 2.0 mg/kg apomorphine (AP), or 0.5 - 5.0 mg/kg methamphetamine. The number 
of head movements, number of body movements, number of times the tongue was
extended, and the time the animal remained in an upright posture were scored
during a 90-min period after the injections. L-Dopa and AP induced large
dose-dependent increases in body movements and time in upright posture.
Furthermore, the smallest dose of AP induced self-destructive behavior. The main 
effect produced by methamphetamine was a constant turning of the head with the
body remaining still. In experiment 2, the marmosets were treated with
alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT) or haloperidol prior to challenge with AP or
methamphetamine. Haloperidol blocked most of the effects of both drugs, while
AMPT blocked only methamphetamine effects. In experiment 3, marmosets were
injected with increasing doses of haloperidol for 22 days. Upon withdrawal of the
neuroleptic, methamphetamine and AP effects were not increased, suggesting
absence of supersensitivity of dopaminergic receptors.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00422412 
PMID: 6787644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4805. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1981;72(2):173-7.

An involvement of dopamine in higher order choice mechanisms in the monkey.

Ridley RM, Haystead TA, Baker HF.

Low doses of amphetamine induce choice perseveration in an object discrimination 
task under conditions where such perseveration either increases or decreases the 
number of rewards obtained as compared to chance performance. Neither stereotyped
motor actions nor repetitive choice of position contributed to this effect which 
could be blocked by pre-treatment with the neuroleptic haloperidol. These results
demonstrate that higher order choice mechanisms may involve dopamine systems in
the primate.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00431652 
PMID: 6782607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

