

4807. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1980 Nov-Dec;5(6):519-24.

The maturation and aging of the vertebrae of marmosets.

Bernick S, Cailliet R, Levy B.

This study deals with the growth, maturation, and age changes to the
cartilaginous end-plates of vertebrae from marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) varying
in age from birth to 10 years. The cartilaginous end-plate is divided into an
inner growth layer and an outer articular zone that abuts against the
intervertebral disc. The growth cartilage gradually narrows and disappears by 1
year of age, when the animal reaches physical maturity. The articular cartilage
undergoes changes in collagen and ground substance that leads to its
calcification. There was a progressive resorption of the calcified articular
cartilage beginning at 3 years of age and continuing throughout the aging period.
In the vertebrae of 8- and 10-year-old animals, only a thin layer of calcified
cartilage separates the disc from the underlying bone.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-198011000-00006 
PMID: 6781074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4808. J Reprod Fertil. 1980 Nov;60(2):389-98.

Regulation of oestrogen-induced LH release in male and female marmoset monkeys
(Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK.

The positive-feedback action of oestradiol-17 beta on LH release was studied in
gonadectomized male and female and intact male marmoset monkeys. Positive
feedback was observed in normal intact males in response to a single subcutaneous
injection of 35 micrograms oestradiol benzoate. The sustained elevation in
oestradiol-17 beta levels achieved by the injections resulted in a marked
suppression of circulating testosterone concentrations. Subcutaneous injections
(0.5 mg/injection) of testosterone or dihydrotestosterone to gonadectomized males
and females immediately following and 8 h after oestradiol benzoate failed to
inhibit positive feedback. Similar treatment with progesterone (1.0 mg/injection)
tended to standardize both positive and negative components of the feedback
response. In contrast, progesterone implants (achieving progesterone
concentrations similar to those obtained with the injections), maintained during 
and for 8 days before the oestradiol benzoate treatment, effectively inhibited
positive feedback. LH responses to the various treatments were similar in
gonadectomized males and females. These data suggest a relative unimportance of
testicular secretions in suppressing oestrogen-induced LH release in the adult
marmoset and indicate similarities between the control of positive feedback in
male and female primates.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0600389 
PMID: 6776280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

