

481. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2019;158(2):88-97. doi: 10.1159/000500796. Epub 2019 Jun
21.

Considerable Synteny and Sequence Similarity of Primate Chromosomal Region
VIIq31.

Hirai H, Go Y, Hirai Y, Rakotoarisoa G, Pamungkas J, Baicharoen S, Jahan I,
Sajuthi D, Tosi AJ.

Human chromosome 7 has been the focus of many behavioral, genetic, and medical
studies because it carries genes related to cancer and neurodevelopment. We
examined the evolution of the chromosome 7 homologs, and the 7q31 region in
particular, using chromosome painting analyses and 3 paint probes derived from
(i) the whole of chimpanzee chromosome VII (wcVII), (ii) human 7q31 (h7q31), and 
(iii) the chimpanzee homolog VIIq31 (cVIIq31). The wcVII probe was used instead
of the whole human chromosome 7 because the chimpanzee contains additional
C-bands and revealed large areas of synteny conservation as well as fragmentation
across 20 primate species. Analyses focusing specifically on the 7q31 homolog and
vicinity revealed considerable conservation across lineages with 2 exceptions.
First, the probes verified an insertion of repetitive sequence at VIIq22 in
chimpanzees and bonobos and also detected the sequence in most subtelomeres of
the African apes. Second, a paracentric inversion with a breakpoint in the
cVIIq31 block was found in the common marmoset, confirming earlier studies.
Subsequent in silico comparative genome analysis of 17 primate species revealed
that VIIq31.1 is more significantly conserved at the sequence level than other
regions of chromosome VII, which indicates that its components are likely
responsible for critical shared traits across the order, including conditions
necessary for proper human development and wellbeing.

Â© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000500796 
PMID: 31220833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Nihon Hoshasen Gijutsu Gakkai Zasshi. 2019;75(6):555-561. doi:
10.6009/jjrt.2019_JSRT_75.6.555.

[16. Brain Mapping of Common Marmoset Using Ultra-high Magnetic Field MRI-from
Structure to Function].

[Article in Japanese]

Hata J(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine.
(2)RIKEN Center of Brain Science.

DOI: 10.6009/jjrt.2019_JSRT_75.6.555 
PMID: 31217406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

