

4810. J Comp Pathol. 1980 Jul;90(3):373-8.

A histological and histochemical study of normal and diseased skeletal muscle in 
marmosets Callithrix jacchus.

Murgatroyd LB, Chalmers DT.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9975(80)90005-5 
PMID: 6793646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4811. Int J Cancer. 1980 Jun 15;25(6):749-56.

Radioimmunoassay for infectious primate retrovirus reverse transcriptase:
characterization, comparison with conventional immunologic assays and
applicability to cellular extracts.

Robert-Guroff M(1), Kalyanaraman VS, Sarngadharan MG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Tumor Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md. 20205, USA.

SSV reverse transcriptase (RT) was purified to homogeneity and used in a
radioimmunoassay. Following iodination, the homogeneity of the protein and its
identity with RT were confirmed by several criteria: (1) its molecular weight on 
an SDS-polyacrylamide gel; (2) its precipitation by anti-SSV RT but not by
antisera to other SSV proteins; (3) its cross-reactivity in RIA with antisera to 
other retroviral polymerases; (4) its competition in RIA by active homogeneous
SSV RT but not by other purified SSV proteins; and (5) its competition in RIA by 
only those fractions from a poly(U)-Sepharose column possessing SSV RT activity. 
Competition of the labelled probe with disrupted retroviruses of the infectious
primate group showed that, while a homologous RIA detected only type-specific
enzyme determinants, it did not distinguish the various woolly-gibbon retroviral 
DNA polymerases. A more broadly reactive heterologous assay utilizing an
antiserum to R-MuLV RT detected group- but not interspecies-specific enzyme
determinants. A comparison of immunologic assays for RT showed that: (1) highly
purified RT is not essential for reliable results in enzyme neutralization or
enzyme binding assays; (2) the greater sensitivity of enzyme binding compared to 
enzyme neutralization assays is a function of the antibody, not of the antigen.
Competition RIAs using extracts of virus-infected cells showed that infectious
primate retrovirus RT could be measured in a crude system and that cellular DNA
polymerases alpha, beta and gamma did not compete with the labelled probe.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.2910250610 
PMID: 14768704  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

