

4821. Exp Brain Res. 1980 Jan;38(2):189-95.

A stereotaxic x-ray map of the hypothalamus of the marmoset monkey Callithrix
jacchus.

Lipp HP.

Precise hypothalamic surgery in the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus cannot be 
performed by means of the Horsley-Clarke stereotaxic procedure. Thus, a simple
stereotaxic X-ray technique was developed. Technical requirements are a
stereotaxic frame for small animals and a dental X-ray source. A sagittal map
shows hypothalamic structures in relation to surrounding bony landmarks.
Corresponding coronal plates allow target determination in that plane.
Intracerebral coordinates based on the position of the optic chiasma can be
transformed into individual Horsley-Clarke coordinates. The error of the atlas is
estimated as +/- 0.25 mm anteroposteriorly, +/- 0.1 mm coronally, and +/- 0.5 mm 
vertically.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00236740 
PMID: 6766871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4822. Intervirology. 1980;14(5-6):284-91.

Natural antibodies to EBV-VCA antigens in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
and response after EBV inoculation.

de-Th√© G, Dubouch P, Fontaine C, Wedderburn N, Carter RL, Edwards MB, Cohen B.

Healthy common marmosets from two separate colonies, one in England and one in
France, were found to have antibodies cross-reacting with Epstein-Barr virus
structural antigens (EBV-VCA). All seropositive animals were at least 2 years
old. Experimental EBV infection of marmosets of different ages led to
seroconversion of inoculated weanlings. Adult animals either developed antibody
for the first time or showed an increase in their existing titers. Both control
and infected animals developed a progressive interstitial nephritis. The
lymphocytic infiltration was more extensive, diffuse and immature in appearance
in inoculated animals, but no definite evidence of lymphoproliferative disease or
lymphoma was found.

DOI: 10.1159/000149198 
PMID: 6265400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

