

4825. Biochemistry. 1979 Nov 13;18(23):5096-108.

Density distribution, characterization, and comparative aspects of the major
serum lipoproteins in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World
primate with potential use in lipoprotein research.

Chapman MJ, Mc Taggart F, Goldstein S.

Qualitative, quantitative, and comparative aspects of the serum lipoprotein
profile in the Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate, are
described. Density gradient ultracentrifugation was used to evaluate lipoprotein 
distribution and to establish criteria for isolation of discrete molecular
fractions. The major lipoprotein classes banded isopycnically on the gradient
with the following hydrated densities: VLDL, d less than 1.017 g/mL; LDL, d =
1.027--1.055 g/mL; HDL fraction I, d = 1.070--1.127 g/mL; and HDL fraction II, d 
= 1.127--1.156 g/mL. Electrophoretic, immunological, and electron microscopic
analyses attested to the purity of these fractions: the characteristics of each
were assessed by chemical analysis, electron microscopy, immunological
techniques, and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of their protein moieties.
Marmoset VLDL and LDL were closely akin to those of man in size and chemical
composition, although the former were richer in triglyceride; electrophoretic and
immunological data showed the major protein component of VLDL and LDL to be a
counterpart to human apo-B. The two HDL subfractions, i.e., HDL-I and HDL-II,
corresponded in size and chemical composition to human HDL2 and HDL3,
respectively, although slight differences in neutral lipid content were detected.
By immunological and electrophoretic criteria, the major apolipoprotein of
marmoset HDL was analogous to human apo-AI. In contrast, marked dissimilarities
were evident in the complements of low molecular weight, tetramethylurea-soluble 
polypeptides of marmoset and human lipoproteins. Quantitatively, the human and
marmoset lipoprotein profiles were not dissimilar, although HDL was the major
class (approximately 50%); in fasting animals, serum concentrations of VLDL, LDL,
and HDL were 50--90, 170--280, and 338--408 mg/dL, respectively. C. jacchus was
distinct from man in displaying a greater proportion of its total HDL in the less
dense (HDL-II) subfraction (marmoset HDL-I/HDL-II = approximately 4:1; human
HDL2/HDL3 = approximately 1:3). These data indicate that, as an experimental
animal for lipoprotein research, the Common marmoset combines the advantages of
ready availability and maintenance with a serum lipoprotein profile which
resembles, in many qualitative and quantitative aspects, that found in man.

DOI: 10.1021/bi00590a012 
PMID: 227447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4826. Exp Brain Res. 1979 Aug 1;36(3):401-10.

The retino-geniculo-cortical pathway in Callithrix. II. The geniculo-cortical
projection.

Spatz WB.

After monocular injections of tritiated tracer precursors and transneuronal
transport of tritiated compounds, a continuous band of radioactivity in layer IV 
of striate cortex of Callithrf the crossed and uncrossed retino-cortical
pathways. Comparison with the organization of these pathways in other primates
suggests that a segregation of the retino-cortical pathways of opposite
ocularities into alternating ocular dominance columns in striate cortex has
developed independently in the different primate lines. The significance is
discussed of the weak labeling of the region of area 17 representing the central 
retina as compared to the representation of the peripheral retina.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00238512 
PMID: 113233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

