

4828. Biomedicine. 1979 Jun;30(2):102-8.

In vitro transforming activity of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). II. Differences
between M81 and B95-8 EBV strains.

Desgranges C, Lavoué MF, Patet J, de-Thé G.

Lymphocytes from 38 human cord blood and 9 adult circulating blood were aliquoted
and infected in parallel either with the B95-8 EBV strain (produced by cotton-top
marmoset lymphocytes transformed by EBV originating from an infectious
mononucleosis line) or with the M81 EB virus (produced by callithrix jacchus
marmoset lymphocytes transformed by EBV originating from a nasopharyngeal
carcinoma (NPC) derived line). Significant differences were observed in the
lymphoblastoid lines obtained and involved cell morphology, cell growth and
synthesis of viral antigen. Cord blood lymphocytes infected with M81 virus
resulted in lymphoblastoid lines where EA and VCA synthesis and production of
virions took place, whereas this was not observed in B95-8 induced lines.


PMID: 224964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4829. J Reprod Fertil. 1979 May;56(1):23-32.

Peripheral plasma levels of progesterone, oestradiol-17 beta, oestrone,
testosterone, androstenedione and chorionic gonadotrophin during pregnancy in the
marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Chambers PL, Hearn JP.

Concentrations of LH/CG, androstenedione and testosterone rose in early pregnancy
to maximum values at 6--10 weeks. Thereafter LH/CG levels declined and
androstenedione and testosterone levels remained at plateau values or declined
until term. Progesterone, oestradiol-17 beta and oestrone increased after
ovulation and remained high throughout pregnancy. At 12 weeks, when LH/CG levels 
were falling, progesterone and oestradiol rose well above the luteal-phase levels
which were maintained for the first 12 weeks. Progesterone declined in the 2
weeks before birth, while oestradiol and oestrone remained high. Pregnancies of
an unknown stage were dated by reference to a graph of uterine diameter, measured
by abdominal palpation, in animals at known times after conception. Measurement
of progesterone concentrations during the conception cycle gave more accurate
dating and showed that the gestation length was 144 days.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0560023 
PMID: 112249  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

