

4838. J Med Primatol. 1979;8(3):155-66.

The effects of gonadectomy and oestradiol-17 beta on pituitary responsiveness to 
LH-RH in the adult male marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK.

Exogenous luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) administered in a wide
range of doses (0.2-25 micrograms) to intact male marmoset monkeys induced a
marked increased in plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) concentrations. Maximum LH
concentrations achieved after injection of LH-RH occurred progressively later as 
the dosage increased. Bilateral orchidectomy sigificantly enhanced pituitary
responsiveness to a standard dose (2.0 microgram) of LH-RH, whereas the
introduction of oestradiol-17 beta implants effectively inhibited the responses. 
LH-RH-induced LH release after gonadectomy (with and without oestradiol-17 beta
treatment) was similar in males and females. The use of marmosets for appropriate
investigation into the physiological role of LH-RH in controlling LH secretion in
primates is proposed.

DOI: 10.1159/000460192 
PMID: 116001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4839. Acta Anat (Basel). 1979;103(3):350-7.

The brain of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Prado Reis F, Abrantes Erhart E.

The gross anatomy and the internal structure of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
brain are described based on the observations made on the material obtained from 
10 adult animals (native name: sagui). 5 brains were used for gross anatomical
observations; the other 5 brains, included in toto in celloidin, were cut into
serial sections, properly stained and used for comparative studies of the
internal structure. Only general descriptions are given considering the brain
because, in further papers, it is intended to go on describing in details the
nervous system of this small primate, very common in Brazilian jungles and easily
domesticated. It shows to be a very good and inexpensive animal for
neurophysiological experiments.


PMID: 107717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

