

4859. Primates Med. 1978;10:12-9.

Marmoset evolution: the molecular evidence.

Cronin JE, Sarich VM.

We report here the results of comparative immunological and electrophoretic
studies of the serum proteins of the New World monkeys. Specifically, we find
that the New World monkeys share a long period of common ancestry with the
Catarrhini and that the divergence between these two groups occurred some 35-40
million years ago. The extant New World monkey lineages are then seen as sharing 
a long period of common ancestry subsequent to that divergence, with their
radiation beginning in the early Miocene. We see seven distinct lineages stemming
from this radiation: (1) Aotus, (2) Callicebus, (3) Cebus, (4) Saimiri, (5)
Ateles-Lagothrix-Alouatta, (6) Pithecia-Cacajao and (7) Callimico-Callimico with 
Cebuella-Saguinus-Leontideus. Within those Ateles with Lagonthrix, and Callimico 
with Callithrix-Cebuella form further subgroups. The marmoset radiation appears
to have begun some 7-10 million years ago.


PMID: 417317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4860. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1978;29(1):64-79.

Composition of the milk of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and milk
substitutes used in hand-rearing programmes, with special reference to fatty
acids.

Turton JA, Ford DJ, Bleby J, Hall BM, Whiting R.

Analyses of marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) milk were carried out to determine
values for crude protein, lactose, total lipids, major minerals, and osmotic
pressure. Mean values were (g/100 ml): protein, 3.6; lactose, 7.5; total lipids, 
7.7; minerals (mg/100 ml): sodium, 21.4; potassium, 54.3; calcium, 92.2;
phosphorus, 22.8; magnesium, 5.0; chloride, 52.2; osmotic pressure, 354 mosm/kg
water. Similar analyses were conducted on 2 milk substitutes used in hand-rearing
programmes. Fatty acid analyses were carried out on natural milk, the milk
substitutes, and the marmoset diet. For hand-rearing C. jacchus it is recommended
that a human milk substitute is modified by increasing the levels of protein,
carbohydrate, and total lipids, and that a small amount of fish oil is added.

DOI: 10.1159/000155827 
PMID: 417007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

