

4860. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1978;29(1):64-79.

Composition of the milk of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and milk
substitutes used in hand-rearing programmes, with special reference to fatty
acids.

Turton JA, Ford DJ, Bleby J, Hall BM, Whiting R.

Analyses of marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) milk were carried out to determine
values for crude protein, lactose, total lipids, major minerals, and osmotic
pressure. Mean values were (g/100 ml): protein, 3.6; lactose, 7.5; total lipids, 
7.7; minerals (mg/100 ml): sodium, 21.4; potassium, 54.3; calcium, 92.2;
phosphorus, 22.8; magnesium, 5.0; chloride, 52.2; osmotic pressure, 354 mosm/kg
water. Similar analyses were conducted on 2 milk substitutes used in hand-rearing
programmes. Fatty acid analyses were carried out on natural milk, the milk
substitutes, and the marmoset diet. For hand-rearing C. jacchus it is recommended
that a human milk substitute is modified by increasing the levels of protein,
carbohydrate, and total lipids, and that a small amount of fish oil is added.

DOI: 10.1159/000155827 
PMID: 417007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4861. Arzneimittelforschung. 1978;28(1):29-35.

[Autoradiographic studies on the distribution of 14C-piracetam in the simian
brain].

[Article in German]

Ostrowski J, Keil M.

Autoradiography of the brain of the monkey Callithrix jacchus 2 and 6 h after
oral application of 200 mg 14C-piracetam/kg (2-oxo-pyrrolidine-l-acetamide-2-14C)
shows that the drug is preferably concentrated in the cortex of cerebrum and
cerebellum. This specific affinity of piracetam which was observed earlier in dog
and rat is thus confirmed in the primate and seems to be species independent.
Beside the dominant cortical concentration there is a characteristic storage of
piracetam in many nuclei of other brain areas, for instance, nucleus caudatus,
hippocampus, n. anteriores thalami, n. dorsales thalami, corpus geniculatum
laterale and mediale, corpora mamillaria, nucleus supraopticus, substantia grisea
centralis, colliculi superiores and inferiores. Furthermore piracetam is stored
in the blood vessel wall of the brain over 6 h. The hypophysis and pineal body
take up radioactivity intensively.


PMID: 415743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

