

4861. Arzneimittelforschung. 1978;28(1):29-35.

[Autoradiographic studies on the distribution of 14C-piracetam in the simian
brain].

[Article in German]

Ostrowski J, Keil M.

Autoradiography of the brain of the monkey Callithrix jacchus 2 and 6 h after
oral application of 200 mg 14C-piracetam/kg (2-oxo-pyrrolidine-l-acetamide-2-14C)
shows that the drug is preferably concentrated in the cortex of cerebrum and
cerebellum. This specific affinity of piracetam which was observed earlier in dog
and rat is thus confirmed in the primate and seems to be species independent.
Beside the dominant cortical concentration there is a characteristic storage of
piracetam in many nuclei of other brain areas, for instance, nucleus caudatus,
hippocampus, n. anteriores thalami, n. dorsales thalami, corpus geniculatum
laterale and mediale, corpora mamillaria, nucleus supraopticus, substantia grisea
centralis, colliculi superiores and inferiores. Furthermore piracetam is stored
in the blood vessel wall of the brain over 6 h. The hypophysis and pineal body
take up radioactivity intensively.


PMID: 415743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4862. J Reprod Fertil. 1978 Jan;52(1):83-6.

A positive feedback effect of oestradiol on LH release in the male marmoset
monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Hodges JK, Hearn JP.

Subcutaneous injections of oestradiol benzoate in oil, resulting in a sustained
elevation of circulating oestradiol levels, induced an initial suppression of LH 
secretion, followed by a positive discharge of LH in castrated male and female
and in intact male marmosets. Oestrogen-induced LH release (producing maximum LH 
concentrations 24 h after the injection) was observed in 75% of castrated males
and females. A positive discharge of LH occurred in 50% of intact males 28-36 h
after oestrogen administration.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0520083 
PMID: 413918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

