

4868. J Med Primatol. 1978;7(2):82-97.

Chromosome banding patterns and nucleolar organizing regions in three species of 
Callithricidae (Saguinus oedipus, Saguinus fuscicollis, and Callithrix jacchus).

Bedard MT, Ma NS, Jones TC.

Chromosome complements of three species of Callithricidae, Saguinus oedipus,
Saguinus fuscicollis and Callithrix jacchus, were analyzed by various banding
techniques. Morphometric data are presented. A diploid chromosome number of 2n = 
46 is reconfirmed for all three species. Several interesting interspecies
chromosomal variations were demonstrated by G- and C-band patterns. Active
nucleolar organizing regions (NORs) were revealed by the Ag-AS silver
histochemical stain.

DOI: 10.1159/000459791 
PMID: 101664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4869. Brain Behav Evol. 1978;15(4):260-93.

Threat, attack and flight elicited by electrical stimulation of the ventromedial 
hypothalamus of the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Lipp HP, Hunsperger RW.

In order to elucidate whether relatively primitive primates show a similar
topological organization of substrates mediating defense and flight within the
ventromedial hypothalamus as has been found in other mammals, 15 marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were chronically implanted with a total of 57 electrodes for
electrical stimulation. Experiments took place in a familiar environment and
under systematically altered conditions. All anatomical sites yielding vocal
threat and short attacks were found to be situated in the n. ventromedialis.
Flight was elicited from a region immediately lateral to this nucleus and from
sites in the posterior hypothalamus. Thus, it appears that the topological
organization of defense and flight behavior in cat, oppossum and marmoset are
essentially similar.

DOI: 10.1159/000123782 
PMID: 100172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

