

4869. Brain Behav Evol. 1978;15(4):260-93.

Threat, attack and flight elicited by electrical stimulation of the ventromedial 
hypothalamus of the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Lipp HP, Hunsperger RW.

In order to elucidate whether relatively primitive primates show a similar
topological organization of substrates mediating defense and flight within the
ventromedial hypothalamus as has been found in other mammals, 15 marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) were chronically implanted with a total of 57 electrodes for
electrical stimulation. Experiments took place in a familiar environment and
under systematically altered conditions. All anatomical sites yielding vocal
threat and short attacks were found to be situated in the n. ventromedialis.
Flight was elicited from a region immediately lateral to this nucleus and from
sites in the posterior hypothalamus. Thus, it appears that the topological
organization of defense and flight behavior in cat, oppossum and marmoset are
essentially similar.

DOI: 10.1159/000123782 
PMID: 100172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4870. Brain Behav Evol. 1978;15(4):241-59.

Aggression and flight behaviour of the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus: an
ethogram for brain stimulation studies.

Lipp HP.

The aggressive and flight behaviour of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) is described and split into behavioural units, allowing analysis of
agonistic behaviour evoked by electrical stimulation of the hypothalamus. The
social context of the described units is also considered. C. jacchus shows
clearly recognizable behavioural patterns. Free-born animals are very timid and
show typical flight reactions. Within aggressive behaviour, two types of
aggression can be distinguished: very violent attacks causing severe injuries,
often accompanied by particular threat displays and observed during dominance and
territorial encounters, and, on the other hand, relatively harmless short
attacks, together with a noisy vocalization, for defensive purposes or keeping
group members at a distance.

DOI: 10.1159/000123781 
PMID: 100171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

