

4878. Immunology. 1977 Feb;32(2):257-63.

T-and B-lymphocyte chimerism in the marmoset.

Niblack GD, Kateley JR, Gengozian N.

Marmosets are natural blood chimeras, this condition resulting from the high
frequency of fraternal twinning and the consistent development of placental
vasular anastomoses between the two embryos. Identification of chimerism by
sex-chromosome analysis of cultured blood lymphocytes provided a means of
determining the proportion of chimerism among T and B lymphocytes. Peripheral
blood lymphocytes were enriched for T or B cells by filtration through a nylon
column (yields greater than 95 per cent T-cells) or inactivation of T lymphocytes
by treatment with a goat anti-marmoset thymocyte antiserum in the presence of
complement (yeilds greater than 95 per cent B cells). Mitogenic stimulation of
these separated, enriched cell populations yielded metaphase plates which could
be scored for percentage male and female cells. Tests on five different blood
chimeras showed the T- and B-lymphocyte chimerism to be the same. Stimulation of 
blood lymphocytes with cells from another species of marmoset in a mixed
lymphocyte culture test revealed the chimeric T-cell response (i.e., host and
co-twin cells) to be similar to that obtained with a mitogenic lectin. The
demonstration of equivalent T- and B-cell chimerism in these animals suggests
derivation of these cells from a common stem cell pool and the response of both
T-cell populations to an antigenic stimulus in proportions similar to their
percentage chimerism suggests complete immunologic tolerance exists in this
species for co-twin histocompatibility antigens.


PMCID: PMC1445224
PMID: 139360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4879. Acta Histochem. 1977;60(2):247-52.

The Rete ovarii and follicle formation in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus and
Callithrix penicillata).

Guedes ML, Miraglia T.

The Rete ovarii in young marmosets shows a strong reactivity for a certain number
of enzymes (LDH; NADH2-TR; NADPH2-TR; G-6-PDH; 6-PGDH; alpha-GPDH; beta-OHBDH and
nonspecific esterase). The granulosa cells of the cortical innermost placed
follicles have the same enzymatic reactivity. The germinal epithelium results
negative to the mentioned group of enzymes at this phase of the development. The 
Rete ovarii must play an important r√¥le in the granulosa cells differentiation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0065-1281(77)80007-X 
PMID: 415485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

