

4880. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1977;28(4):251-8.

Urinary excretion of biologically active chorionic gonadotrophin by the pregnant 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Hobson BM, Hearn JP, Lunn SF, Flockhart JH.

No significant correlation exists between the amount of biologically active
marmoset chorionic gonadotrophin (mCG) in urine and results obtained with an
immunological pregnancy test. The pregnant marmoset excretes large amounts of
oestrogenic steroids, which must be removed, to prevent the enhancement of the
response of the bioassay for mCG. More than 99% of these unconjugated and
conjugated urinary oestrogens can be removed by extraction with acetone and
ether. mCG is excreted throughout pregnancy, maximum levels occurring between the
8th and 9th week of gestation. There is a considerable within- and between-animal
variation in the amount of mCG excreted. However, the pattern of gonadotrophin
excretion by the pregnant marmoset is similar to that of man and the apes but
unlike that of baboons and macaques.

DOI: 10.1159/000155816 
PMID: 414981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4881. Cytogenet Cell Genet. 1977;19(5):281-302.

The chromosomal location of rDNA in selected lower primates.

Henderson AS, Warburton D, Megraw-Ripley S, Atwood KC.

Hybridization in stiu was used to identify the chromosomes that carry rDNA in
representative lower primates, including the baboons, Papio cynocephalus and
Papio hamadryas; the colobus monkey, Colobus polykomos; the tree shrew, Tupaia
glis; the lemur, Lemur fulvis; the saki, Pithecia pithecia; the marmoset,
Saguinus nigricollis, and the spider monkey, Ateles geoffroyi. The marker
chromosome, common to the Cercopithecines studied to date, carries the rDNA in
the baboons. Another marker chromosome carries rDNA in a South American species, 
the spider monkey. A multichromosomal distribution of rDNA was demonstrated in
the tree shrew, lemur, saki, and marmoset. None of the rDNA-containing
chromosomes in the prosimians and New World monkeys show homology to the
chromosomes that carry rDNA in the Hominids, Pongids, or Old World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1159/000130821 
PMID: 414888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

