

4888. Arkh Anat Gistol Embriol. 1976 Sep;71(9):90-5.

[Anatomy of the pelvic lymph nodes in the green marmoset].

[Article in Russian]

Sapin MR, Kafieva TA.

The iliac lymphatic caudal nodes disposed along the external iliac artery as
three chains (lateral, median or prevenous, and medial) were studied in 89
corpses of green monkeys. In two chains (lateral and retrovascular) the cranial
iliac lymphatic nodes are adjacent to the common iliac artery. The number of
nodes in each chain varies from one to five. One node of the group of caudal
iliac nodes-femoral-is present almost in all preparations. The lymphatic system
of the pelvis of the monkeys studied is arranged according to a common bilateral 
plan characteristic of all mammals.


PMID: 825081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4889. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1976 Sep;45(2):281-98.

Functional patterns of molar occlusion in platyrrhine primates.

Rosenberger AL, Kinzey WG.

Mechanico-functional features of molar form were studied in Callithrix, Alouatta,
Pithecia and Cebus. Molars of Callithrix and Alouatta are adapted to loading
foods under relatively high occlusal pressure; those of Pithecia and Cebus, under
relatively low occlusal pressure. General functional considerations suggest that 
these taxa are adapted to insectivorous, folivorous, frugivorous and omnivorous
diets, respectively. The physical properties of foods, principally mechanical
strength and deformability, determine the selective pressures involved in the
evolutionary adaptation of molar form. A dietary classification based upon
percentages of foods eaten does not always reflect morphological adaptations.
Homologous parts of teeth and homologous parts of the masticatory cycle do not
always subserve equivalent functions. The relevance of functional occlusal
analysis for deciphering phylogeny and explaining evolutionary grades is
stressed.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330450214 
PMID: 822731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

