

4893. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1976 May 5;47(1):53-8.

Comparative autoradiographic and metabolic study of delta8- and
delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol in the brain of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Erdmann G, Just WW, Thel S, Werner G, Wiechmann M.

The label distribution in the brain of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus following 
intravenous application of radioactively labeled delta8-tetrahydrocannabinol
(delta8-THC) and delta9-THC is investigated by autoradiographic technique.
Accumulations of label are observed in nuclei concerned with motor function, in
the optic and acoustic pathways, and a few other structures. Of the two
hydroxylated isomeres which were shown to be equally psychoactive the brain
concentration of 11-OH-delta9-THC was found to be about 3 times higher as
compared with 11-OH-delta8 THC, which may explain why delta9-THC is more potent
than delta8-THC. More than 90% of the radioactivity found in the brain can be
attributed to the THCs and their 11-hydroxylated isomeres. Polar metabolites are 
almost completely absent from the brain.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00428701 
PMID: 822439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4894. Anim Behav. 1976 May;24(2):428-51.

An ethogram of the common marmoset (Calithrix jacchus jacchus): general
behavioural repertoire.

Stevenson MF, Poole TB.

The behavioural repertoire of four captive breeding pairs of Callithrix jacchus
jacchus is described. Social communication took the form of postures, facial
expressions, vocalizations and piloerection displays. Detailed analyses were made
of piloerection displays, adult play, copulatory, aggressive, and prey-catching
behaviour. Aggressive behaviour was uncommon in adult mated pairs. Play between
adults showed a degree of temporal of temporal organization. Vocalizations were
the main methods of intragroup communication whilst piloerection displays were
directed towards members of other groups and also to unfamiliar objects. The
behavioural repertoire of C. jacchus jacchus is compared with that of other
Primates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-3472(76)80053-x 
PMID: 820223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

