

4917. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1975;287(2):219-25.

Metabolism and autoradiographic distribution of delta-8- and
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in some organs of the monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Just WW, Erdmann G, Thel S, Werner G, Wiechmann M.

Metabolism and autoradiographic distribution of the two isomeric
tetrahydrocannabinols, (2,4-14-C)-delta-8-THC and (2,4-14-C)-delta-9-THC, were
studied in the marmoset Callithrix jacchus. Of the two cannabinoids, delta-8-THC 
had a slower initial rate of biotransformation to the psychopharmacologically
more potent 11-hydroxylated metabolite. This may explain the minor
psychopharmacological activity of the delta-8-isomer. In glandular tissues an
accumulation of unchanged delta-9-THC was observed. Autoradiography revealed
characteristic label distributions in some organs 30 min after the administration
of the drugs. This labelling pattern was found to be changed after a 6-hr
incorporation period. The autoradiographic distribution of delta-8 and
delta-9-THC appeared to be identical.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00510453 
PMID: 806815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4918. J Periodontal Res. 1975 Feb;10(1):44-8.

Periodontal changes in distant teeth due to trauma from occlusion.

Nascimento A, Sallum AW.

The present investigation studies the changes that occur in periodontal
supporting tissues of lower canine and premolar of marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus), due to experimental modification of occlusal relationships in the
region of the molar. For our purposes an extracoronal arch wire of 0.7 mm
diameter was fixed into occlusal perforations of the upper third premolar and
first molar, on both sides. Eight male marmosets weighing from 250 to 350 grams
were used. After each experimental time interval of 7, 14, 21 and 28 days two
animals were sacrificed. The results clearly showed areas of tension with stretch
periodontal fibers in the distal region of the canine and areas of pressue with
osseous and redicular resorption in the mesial region of the first premolar. The 
tissue changes may be considered to result from transmission of abnormal forces
through the proximal contacts of teeth associated with displacements and minor
modifications in their occlusal relationships. Similar changes may occur in a
tooth distant from the teeth exposed to primary excessive occlusal forces.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0765.1975.tb00006.x 
PMID: 124334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

