

499. Am J Primatol. 2019 Oct;81(10-11):e983. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22983. Epub 2019 May 6.

Comparative genomics of Bifidobacterium species isolated from marmosets and
humans.

Brown CJ(1)(2)(3), Mtui D(1), Oswald BP(1)(3), Van Leuven JT(2), Vallender EJ(4),
Schultz-Darken N(5), Ross CN(6)(7), Tardif SD(6), Austad SN(8), Forney LJ(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho.
(2)Center for Modeling Complex Interactions, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho.
(3)Institute for Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies, University of Idaho,
Moscow, Idaho.
(4)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough,
Massachusetts.
(5)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(6)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(7)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University, San Antonio,
Texas.
(8)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.

The genus Bifidobacterium is purported to have beneficial consequences for human 
health and is a major component of many gastrointestinal probiotics. Although
species of Bifidobacterium are generally at low relative frequency in the adult
human gastrointestinal tract, they can constitute high proportions of the
gastrointestinal communities of adult marmosets. To identify genes that might be 
important for the maintenance of Bifidobacterium in adult marmosets, ten strains 
of Bifidobacterium were isolated from the feces of seven adult marmosets, and
their genomes were sequenced. There were six B. reuteri strains, two B.
callitrichos strains, one B. myosotis sp. nov. and one B. tissieri sp. nov. among
our isolates. Phylogenetic analysis showed that three of the four species we
isolated were most closely related to B. bifidum, B. breve and B. longum, which
are species found in high abundance in human infants. There were 1357 genes that 
were shared by at least one strain of B. reuteri, B. callitrichos, B. breve, and 
B. longum, and 987 genes that were found in all strains of the four species.
There were 106 genes found in B. reuteri and B. callitrichos but not in human
bifidobacteria, and several of these genes were involved in nutrient uptake.
These pathways for nutrient uptake appeared to be specific to Bifidobacterium
from New World monkeys. Additionally, the distribution of Bifidobacterium in
fecal samples from captive adult marmosets constituted as much as 80% of the gut 
microbiome, although this was variable between individuals and colonies. We
suggest that nutrient transporters may be important for the maintenance of
Bifidobacterium during adulthood in marmosets.

Â© 2019 The Authors. American Journal of Primatology Published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22983 
PMCID: PMC6900142
PMID: 31062394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Adv Virol. 2019 Mar 28;2019:6464521. doi: 10.1155/2019/6464521. eCollection 2019.

Epstein-Barr Virus- (EBV-) Immortalized Lymphoblastoid Cell Lines (LCLs) Express 
High Level of CD23 but Low CD27 to Support Their Growth.

Yap HY(1), Siow TS(2), Chow SK(3), Teow SY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, School of Healthcare and Medical Sciences,
Sunway University, Jalan Universiti, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor
Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, School of Science and Technology, Sunway
University, Jalan Universiti, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, Malaysia.
(3)Sunway Medical Centre, Jalan Lagoon Selatan, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is one of the common human herpesvirus types in the
world. EBV is known to infect more than 95% of adults in the world. The virus
mainly infects B lymphocytes and could immortalize and transform the cells into
EBV-bearing lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs). Limited studies have been focused
on characterizing the surface marker expression of the immortalized LCLs. This
study demonstrates the generation of 15 LCLs from sixteen rheumatoid arthritis
(RA) patients and a healthy volunteer using B95-8 marmoset-derived EBV. The
success rate of LCL generation was 88.23%. All CD19+ LCLs expressed CD23
(16.94-58.9%) and CD27 (15.74-80.89%) on cell surface. Our data demonstrated two 
distinct categories of LCLs (fast- and slow-growing) (p<0.05) based on their
doubling time. The slow-growing LCLs showed lower CD23 level (35.28%) compared to
fast-growing LCLs (42.39%). In contrast, the slow-growing LCLs showed higher
percentage in both CD27 alone and CD23+CD27+ in combination. Overall, these
findings may suggest the correlations of cellular CD23 and CD27 expression with
the proliferation rate of the generated LCLs. Increase expression of CD23 may
play a role in EBV immortalization of B-cells and the growth and maintenance of
the EBV-transformed LCLs while CD27 expression might have inhibitory effects on
LCL proliferation. Further investigations are warranted to these speculations.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/6464521 
PMCID: PMC6458955
PMID: 31049064 

