

500. Adv Virol. 2019 Mar 28;2019:6464521. doi: 10.1155/2019/6464521. eCollection 2019.

Epstein-Barr Virus- (EBV-) Immortalized Lymphoblastoid Cell Lines (LCLs) Express 
High Level of CD23 but Low CD27 to Support Their Growth.

Yap HY(1), Siow TS(2), Chow SK(3), Teow SY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, School of Healthcare and Medical Sciences,
Sunway University, Jalan Universiti, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor
Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, School of Science and Technology, Sunway
University, Jalan Universiti, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, Malaysia.
(3)Sunway Medical Centre, Jalan Lagoon Selatan, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is one of the common human herpesvirus types in the
world. EBV is known to infect more than 95% of adults in the world. The virus
mainly infects B lymphocytes and could immortalize and transform the cells into
EBV-bearing lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs). Limited studies have been focused
on characterizing the surface marker expression of the immortalized LCLs. This
study demonstrates the generation of 15 LCLs from sixteen rheumatoid arthritis
(RA) patients and a healthy volunteer using B95-8 marmoset-derived EBV. The
success rate of LCL generation was 88.23%. All CD19+ LCLs expressed CD23
(16.94-58.9%) and CD27 (15.74-80.89%) on cell surface. Our data demonstrated two 
distinct categories of LCLs (fast- and slow-growing) (p<0.05) based on their
doubling time. The slow-growing LCLs showed lower CD23 level (35.28%) compared to
fast-growing LCLs (42.39%). In contrast, the slow-growing LCLs showed higher
percentage in both CD27 alone and CD23+CD27+ in combination. Overall, these
findings may suggest the correlations of cellular CD23 and CD27 expression with
the proliferation rate of the generated LCLs. Increase expression of CD23 may
play a role in EBV immortalization of B-cells and the growth and maintenance of
the EBV-transformed LCLs while CD27 expression might have inhibitory effects on
LCL proliferation. Further investigations are warranted to these speculations.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/6464521 
PMCID: PMC6458955
PMID: 31049064 


501. J Opt Soc Am A Opt Image Sci Vis. 2019 Apr 1;36(4):508-509. doi:
10.1364/JOSAA.36.000508.

Effect of luminosity on color discrimination of dichromatic marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus): erratum.

Pessoa DMA, Freitag FB.

Erratum for
    J Opt Soc Am A Opt Image Sci Vis. 2012 Feb 1;29(2):A216-22.

We present an erratum to correct an unintentional unit conversion error in our
paper, J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 29, A216 (2012), and to update Tables 1 and 2. Here we 
publish the revised versions of Tables 1 and 2.

DOI: 10.1364/JOSAA.36.000508 
PMID: 31044968 

