

501. J Opt Soc Am A Opt Image Sci Vis. 2019 Apr 1;36(4):508-509. doi:
10.1364/JOSAA.36.000508.

Effect of luminosity on color discrimination of dichromatic marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus): erratum.

Pessoa DMA, Freitag FB.

Erratum for
    J Opt Soc Am A Opt Image Sci Vis. 2012 Feb 1;29(2):A216-22.

We present an erratum to correct an unintentional unit conversion error in our
paper, J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 29, A216 (2012), and to update Tables 1 and 2. Here we 
publish the revised versions of Tables 1 and 2.

DOI: 10.1364/JOSAA.36.000508 
PMID: 31044968 


502. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2019 Jul;69(7):1941-1946. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003407.
Epub 2019 Apr 30.

Phascolarctobacterium wakonense sp. nov., isolated from common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) faeces.

Shigeno Y(1), Kitahara M(1), Shime M(1), Benno Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Benno Laboratory, RIKEN Baton Zone Program, RIKEN Cluster for Science
Technology and Innovation Hab, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Two strictly anaerobic strains (MB11T and MB56) were isolated from common
marmoset (Callithrixjacchus) faeces. Cells of the two strains were
Gram-stain-negative, pleomorphic short (strain MB11T) or long (strain MB56) rods.
Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that both
isolates were related to the genus Phascolarctobacterium. They had 16S rRNA gene 
sequences similarities lower than 93 % to previously described species,
Phascolarctobacterium faecium ACM 3679T and Phascolarctobacterium succinatutens
YIT 12067T, and 98.7 % between themselves. DNA-DNA hybridization values showed
that strains MB11T and MB56 were the same species. The genomic DNA G+C content of
strains MB11T and MB56 were 47.3-47.4 mol% and 47.7-48.0 mol%. The isolates had
different enzymatic activities compared with P. succinatutens JCM 16074T and
different major cellular fatty acids compared with P. faecium ACM 3679T.
Substrate availability revealed that they utilized not only succinate, but also
pyruvate. With pyruvate supplementation, they produced both propionate and
acetate, while only propionate production occured with succinate. As suggested by
the phylogenic and physiological properties of strains MB11T and MB56, we propose
the name Phascolarctobacteriumwakonense sp. nov. with the type strain MB11T (=JCM
32899T=DSM 107697T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003407 
PMID: 31038451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

