

505. J Comp Psychol. 2019 Nov;133(4):488-495. doi: 10.1037/com0000182. Epub 2019 Apr
25.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) evaluate third-party social interactions of
human actors but Japanese monkeys (Macaca fuscata) do not.

Kawai N(1), Nakagami A(1), Yasue M(1), Koda H(2), Ichinohe N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive and Psychological Sciences.
(2)Primate Research Institute.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research.

Reciprocity and cooperation are fundamental to human society and are observed in 
nonhuman primates. Primates are not only sensitive to direct reciprocity and its 
violation but also indirect reciprocity. Recent studies demonstrated that some
primate species adjusted their behavior by observing others' interactions.
Capuchin, marmoset, and squirrel monkeys avoided taking food from human actors
who behaved nonreciprocally; however, no such empirical evidence among Old World 
monkeys is available. Here, we show that common marmosets, which are a highly
prosocial species, discriminated between human actors who reciprocated in social 
exchanges and those who did not; however, Japanese monkeys, who are renowned for 
despotic social relationships, did not. In the reciprocal condition, 2 human
actors exchanged food equally, whereas in the nonreciprocal condition, 1 actor
(nonreciprocator) ended up with all the food and the other actor with none. The
common marmosets avoided receiving food from the nonreciprocator in the
nonreciprocal condition. Nevertheless, the Japanese monkeys did not show
differential preferences in either condition. These results suggest a crucial
role for prosocial tendencies in monkeys' responses to asymmetric exchanges and
indicate that third-party social evaluations are not homologous among primates.
Further comparative studies with direct comparisons will be required to explore
the underlying mechanism of third-party social evaluations. (PsycINFO Database
Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000182 
PMID: 31021114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Neuroimage. 2019 Aug 15;197:512-526. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.04.045. Epub 
2019 Apr 20.

Decoding of muscle activity from the sensorimotor cortex in freely behaving
monkeys.

Umeda T(1), Koizumi M(2), Katakai Y(3), Saito R(4), Seki K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan. Electronic
address: tumeda@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan.
(3)Administrative Section of Primate Research Facility, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo,
1878502, Japan; The Corporation for Production and Research of Laboratory
Primates, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 3050003, Japan.
(4)Administrative Section of Primate Research Facility, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo,
1878502, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan. Electronic
address: seki@ncnp.go.jp.

Remarkable advances have recently been made in the development of Brain-Machine
Interface (BMI) technologies for restoring or enhancing motor function. However, 
the application of these technologies may be limited to patients in static
conditions, as these developments have been largely based on studies of animals
(e.g., non-human primates) in constrained movement conditions. The ultimate goal 
of BMI technology is to enable individuals to move their bodies naturally or
control external devices without physical constraints. Here, we demonstrate
accurate decoding of muscle activity from electrocorticogram (ECoG) signals in
unrestrained, freely behaving monkeys. We recorded ECoG signals from the
sensorimotor cortex as well as electromyogram signals from multiple muscles in
the upper arm while monkeys performed two types of movements with no physical
restraints, as follows: forced forelimb movement (lever-pull task) and natural
whole-body movement (free movement within the cage). As in previous reports using
restrained monkeys, we confirmed that muscle activity during forced forelimb
movement was accurately predicted from simultaneously recorded ECoG data. More
importantly, we demonstrated that accurate prediction of muscle activity from
ECoG data was possible in monkeys performing natural whole-body movement. We
found that high-gamma activity in the primary motor cortex primarily contributed 
to the prediction of muscle activity during natural whole-body movement as well
as forced forelimb movement. In contrast, the contribution of high-gamma activity
in the premotor and primary somatosensory cortices was significantly larger
during natural whole-body movement. Thus, activity in a larger area of the
sensorimotor cortex was needed to predict muscle activity during natural
whole-body movement. Furthermore, decoding models obtained from forced forelimb
movement could not be generalized to natural whole-body movement, which suggests 
that decoders should be built individually and according to different behavior
types. These results contribute to the future application of BMI systems in
unrestrained individuals.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.04.045 
PMID: 31015029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

