

506. Neuroimage. 2019 Aug 15;197:512-526. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.04.045. Epub 
2019 Apr 20.

Decoding of muscle activity from the sensorimotor cortex in freely behaving
monkeys.

Umeda T(1), Koizumi M(2), Katakai Y(3), Saito R(4), Seki K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan. Electronic
address: tumeda@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan.
(3)Administrative Section of Primate Research Facility, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo,
1878502, Japan; The Corporation for Production and Research of Laboratory
Primates, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 3050003, Japan.
(4)Administrative Section of Primate Research Facility, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo,
1878502, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan. Electronic
address: seki@ncnp.go.jp.

Remarkable advances have recently been made in the development of Brain-Machine
Interface (BMI) technologies for restoring or enhancing motor function. However, 
the application of these technologies may be limited to patients in static
conditions, as these developments have been largely based on studies of animals
(e.g., non-human primates) in constrained movement conditions. The ultimate goal 
of BMI technology is to enable individuals to move their bodies naturally or
control external devices without physical constraints. Here, we demonstrate
accurate decoding of muscle activity from electrocorticogram (ECoG) signals in
unrestrained, freely behaving monkeys. We recorded ECoG signals from the
sensorimotor cortex as well as electromyogram signals from multiple muscles in
the upper arm while monkeys performed two types of movements with no physical
restraints, as follows: forced forelimb movement (lever-pull task) and natural
whole-body movement (free movement within the cage). As in previous reports using
restrained monkeys, we confirmed that muscle activity during forced forelimb
movement was accurately predicted from simultaneously recorded ECoG data. More
importantly, we demonstrated that accurate prediction of muscle activity from
ECoG data was possible in monkeys performing natural whole-body movement. We
found that high-gamma activity in the primary motor cortex primarily contributed 
to the prediction of muscle activity during natural whole-body movement as well
as forced forelimb movement. In contrast, the contribution of high-gamma activity
in the premotor and primary somatosensory cortices was significantly larger
during natural whole-body movement. Thus, activity in a larger area of the
sensorimotor cortex was needed to predict muscle activity during natural
whole-body movement. Furthermore, decoding models obtained from forced forelimb
movement could not be generalized to natural whole-body movement, which suggests 
that decoders should be built individually and according to different behavior
types. These results contribute to the future application of BMI systems in
unrestrained individuals.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.04.045 
PMID: 31015029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Biomed Phys Eng Express. 2018 Sep;4(5). pii: 055025. doi:
10.1088/2057-1976/aada67. Epub 2018 Aug 31.

Long-term stability of neural signals from microwire arrays implanted in common
marmoset motor cortex and striatum.

Debnath S(1), Prins NW(1), Pohlmeyer E(2), Mylavarapu R(1), Geng S(3), Sanchez
JC(4), Prasad A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
33146.
(2)John Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723.
(3)The Center for Computational Science, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
33146.
(4)Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Arlington, VA 22203.

Current neuroprosthetics rely on stable, high quality recordings from chronically
implanted microelectrode arrays (MEAs) in neural tissue. While chronic
electrophysiological recordings and electrode failure modes have been reported
from rodent and larger non-human primate (NHP) models, chronic recordings from
the marmoset model have not been previously described. The common marmoset is a
New World primate that is easier to breed and handle compared to larger NHPs and 
has a similarly organized brain, making it a potentially useful smaller NHP model
for neuroscience studies. This study reports recording stability and signal
quality of MEAs chronically implanted in behaving marmosets. Six adult male
marmosets, trained for reaching tasks, were implanted with either a 16-channel
tungsten microwire array (five animals) or a Pt-Ir floating MEA (one animal) in
the hand-arm region of the primary motor cortex (M1) and another MEA in the
striatum targeting the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Signal stability and quality was
quantified as a function of array yield (active electrodes that recorded action
potentials), neuronal yield (isolated single units during a recording session),
and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). Out of 11 implanted MEAs, nine provided
functional recordings for at least three months, with two arrays functional for
10 months. In general, implants had high yield, which remained stable for up to
several months. However, mechanical failure attributed to MEA connector was the
most common failure mode. In the longest implants, signal degradation occurred,
which was characterized by gradual decline in array yield, reduced number of
isolated single units, and changes in waveform shape of action potentials. This
work demonstrates the feasibility of longterm recordings from MEAs implanted in
cortical and deep brain structures in the marmoset model. The ability to
chronically record cortical signals for neural prosthetics applications in the
common marmoset extends the potential of this model in neural interface research.

DOI: 10.1088/2057-1976/aada67 
PMCID: PMC6474681
PMID: 31011432 

