

507. Biomed Phys Eng Express. 2018 Sep;4(5). pii: 055025. doi:
10.1088/2057-1976/aada67. Epub 2018 Aug 31.

Long-term stability of neural signals from microwire arrays implanted in common
marmoset motor cortex and striatum.

Debnath S(1), Prins NW(1), Pohlmeyer E(2), Mylavarapu R(1), Geng S(3), Sanchez
JC(4), Prasad A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
33146.
(2)John Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, MD 20723.
(3)The Center for Computational Science, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
33146.
(4)Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, Arlington, VA 22203.

Current neuroprosthetics rely on stable, high quality recordings from chronically
implanted microelectrode arrays (MEAs) in neural tissue. While chronic
electrophysiological recordings and electrode failure modes have been reported
from rodent and larger non-human primate (NHP) models, chronic recordings from
the marmoset model have not been previously described. The common marmoset is a
New World primate that is easier to breed and handle compared to larger NHPs and 
has a similarly organized brain, making it a potentially useful smaller NHP model
for neuroscience studies. This study reports recording stability and signal
quality of MEAs chronically implanted in behaving marmosets. Six adult male
marmosets, trained for reaching tasks, were implanted with either a 16-channel
tungsten microwire array (five animals) or a Pt-Ir floating MEA (one animal) in
the hand-arm region of the primary motor cortex (M1) and another MEA in the
striatum targeting the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Signal stability and quality was
quantified as a function of array yield (active electrodes that recorded action
potentials), neuronal yield (isolated single units during a recording session),
and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). Out of 11 implanted MEAs, nine provided
functional recordings for at least three months, with two arrays functional for
10 months. In general, implants had high yield, which remained stable for up to
several months. However, mechanical failure attributed to MEA connector was the
most common failure mode. In the longest implants, signal degradation occurred,
which was characterized by gradual decline in array yield, reduced number of
isolated single units, and changes in waveform shape of action potentials. This
work demonstrates the feasibility of longterm recordings from MEAs implanted in
cortical and deep brain structures in the marmoset model. The ability to
chronically record cortical signals for neural prosthetics applications in the
common marmoset extends the potential of this model in neural interface research.

DOI: 10.1088/2057-1976/aada67 
PMCID: PMC6474681
PMID: 31011432 


508. Behav Neurosci. 2019 Jun;133(3):320-328. doi: 10.1037/bne0000314. Epub 2019 Apr
22.

Limited capabilities for condition-dependent modulation of vocal turn-taking
behavior in marmoset monkeys.

Dohmen D(1), Hage SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication.

Taking turns plays an important role in primate communication and involves
individuals producing species-specific calls in response to conspecific
vocalizations. Recent studies have revealed that marmoset monkeys are an ideal
primate model system to investigate vocal turn-taking behavior and the
corresponding sensory-motor interactions. However, it is largely unknown how
external factors such as conspecific call latency influence this vocal behavior. 
Using interactive playback, we systematically answered vocalizations of monkeys
with either short- or long-call response latencies. By placing marmosets in these
different behavioral conditions, we demonstrate that vocal turn taking is a
robust behavior with only minor condition-dependent changes that is exhibited not
only in the range of species-specific call latencies of vocal partners but also
in conditions well outside natural behavioral boundaries. We find that specific
features of vocal performance such as call response rates and call sequences
remain surprisingly stable, whereas others such as turn-taking rates and response
latencies exhibit condition-dependent differences during this behavior. These
condition-dependent modulations suggest that a combination of flexible and more
rigid mechanisms control marmoset vocal turn-taking behavior. (PsycINFO Database 
Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/bne0000314 
PMID: 31008628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

