

508. Behav Neurosci. 2019 Jun;133(3):320-328. doi: 10.1037/bne0000314. Epub 2019 Apr
22.

Limited capabilities for condition-dependent modulation of vocal turn-taking
behavior in marmoset monkeys.

Dohmen D(1), Hage SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication.

Taking turns plays an important role in primate communication and involves
individuals producing species-specific calls in response to conspecific
vocalizations. Recent studies have revealed that marmoset monkeys are an ideal
primate model system to investigate vocal turn-taking behavior and the
corresponding sensory-motor interactions. However, it is largely unknown how
external factors such as conspecific call latency influence this vocal behavior. 
Using interactive playback, we systematically answered vocalizations of monkeys
with either short- or long-call response latencies. By placing marmosets in these
different behavioral conditions, we demonstrate that vocal turn taking is a
robust behavior with only minor condition-dependent changes that is exhibited not
only in the range of species-specific call latencies of vocal partners but also
in conditions well outside natural behavioral boundaries. We find that specific
features of vocal performance such as call response rates and call sequences
remain surprisingly stable, whereas others such as turn-taking rates and response
latencies exhibit condition-dependent differences during this behavior. These
condition-dependent modulations suggest that a combination of flexible and more
rigid mechanisms control marmoset vocal turn-taking behavior. (PsycINFO Database 
Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/bne0000314 
PMID: 31008628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Evol Hum Behav. 2019 Mar;40(2):214-221. doi: 10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2018.11.006.

Common marmosets are sensitive to simple dependencies at variable distances in an
artificial grammar.

Reber SA(1)(2), Šlipogor V(1), Oh J(1), Ravignani A(3), Hoeschele M(1)(4),
Bugnyar T(1), Fitch WT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090 
Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Philosophy, Lund University, Helgonavägen 3, 22 100 Lund,
Sweden.
(3)Artificial Intelligence Lab, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 1050
Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Acoustics Research Institute, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Wohllebengasse
12-14, 1040 Vienna, Austria.

Recognizing that two elements within a sequence of variable length depend on each
other is a key ability in understanding the structure of language and music.
Perception of such interdependencies has previously been documented in
chimpanzees in the visual domain and in human infants and common squirrel monkeys
with auditory playback experiments, but it remains unclear whether it typifies
primates in general. Here, we investigated the ability of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) to recognize and respond to such dependencies. We tested
subjects in a familiarization-discrimination playback experiment using stimuli
composed of pure tones that either conformed or did not conform to a grammatical 
rule. After familiarization to sequences with dependencies, marmosets
spontaneously discriminated between sequences containing and lacking dependencies
('consistent' and 'inconsistent', respectively), independent of stimulus length. 
Marmosets looked more often to the sound source when hearing sequences consistent
with the familiarization stimuli, as previously found in human infants.
Crucially, looks were coded automatically by computer software, avoiding human
bias. Our results support the hypothesis that the ability to perceive
dependencies at variable distances was already present in the common ancestor of 
all anthropoid primates (Simiiformes).

DOI: 10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2018.11.006 
PMCID: PMC6472617
PMID: 31007503 

