

509. Evol Hum Behav. 2019 Mar;40(2):214-221. doi: 10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2018.11.006.

Common marmosets are sensitive to simple dependencies at variable distances in an
artificial grammar.

Reber SA(1)(2), Šlipogor V(1), Oh J(1), Ravignani A(3), Hoeschele M(1)(4),
Bugnyar T(1), Fitch WT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090 
Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Philosophy, Lund University, Helgonavägen 3, 22 100 Lund,
Sweden.
(3)Artificial Intelligence Lab, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 1050
Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Acoustics Research Institute, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Wohllebengasse
12-14, 1040 Vienna, Austria.

Recognizing that two elements within a sequence of variable length depend on each
other is a key ability in understanding the structure of language and music.
Perception of such interdependencies has previously been documented in
chimpanzees in the visual domain and in human infants and common squirrel monkeys
with auditory playback experiments, but it remains unclear whether it typifies
primates in general. Here, we investigated the ability of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) to recognize and respond to such dependencies. We tested
subjects in a familiarization-discrimination playback experiment using stimuli
composed of pure tones that either conformed or did not conform to a grammatical 
rule. After familiarization to sequences with dependencies, marmosets
spontaneously discriminated between sequences containing and lacking dependencies
('consistent' and 'inconsistent', respectively), independent of stimulus length. 
Marmosets looked more often to the sound source when hearing sequences consistent
with the familiarization stimuli, as previously found in human infants.
Crucially, looks were coded automatically by computer software, avoiding human
bias. Our results support the hypothesis that the ability to perceive
dependencies at variable distances was already present in the common ancestor of 
all anthropoid primates (Simiiformes).

DOI: 10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2018.11.006 
PMCID: PMC6472617
PMID: 31007503 


510. Magn Reson Imaging. 2019 Dec;64:21-27. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2019.04.009. Epub 2019 
Apr 17.

Open-source pipeline for multi-class segmentation of the spinal cord with deep
learning.

Paugam F(1), Lefeuvre J(2), Perone CS(3), Gros C(3), Reich DS(2), Sati P(2),
Cohen-Adad J(4).

Author information: 
(1)École Centrale de Lyon, Lyon, France; NeuroPoly Lab, Institute of Biomedical
Engineering, Polytechnique Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address:
francois.paugam@laposte.net.
(2)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)NeuroPoly Lab, Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Polytechnique Montreal,
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)NeuroPoly Lab, Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Polytechnique Montreal,
Montreal, QC, Canada; Functional Neuroimaging Unit, CRIUGM, Université de
Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: jcohen@polymtl.ca.

This paper presents an open-source pipeline to train neural networks to segment
structures of interest from MRI data. The pipeline is tailored towards
homogeneous datasets and requires relatively low amounts of manual segmentations 
(few dozen, or less depending on the homogeneity of the dataset). Two use-case
scenarios for segmenting the spinal cord white and grey matter are presented: one
in marmosets with variable numbers of lesions, and the other in the publicly
available human grey matter segmentation challenge [1]. The pipeline is freely
available at: https://github.com/neuropoly/multiclass-segmentation.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2019.04.009 
PMCID: PMC6800813
PMID: 31004711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

