

51. J Neurosci Res. 2021 Dec;99(12):3121-3147. doi: 10.1002/jnr.24967. Epub 2021 Oct 
29.

Light microscopic and heterogeneity analysis of astrocytes in the common marmoset
brain.

Muñoz Y(1), Cuevas-Pacheco F(2)(3), Quesseveur G(1), Murai KK(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research in Neuroscience, Department of Neurology & Neurosurgery,
Brain Repair and Integrative Neuroscience Program, Research Institute of the
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal General Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Universidad Técnica Federico Santa Maria,
Valparaiso, Chile.
(3)Advanced Center for Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Universidad Técnica
Federico Santa Maria, Valparaiso, Chile.
(4)Quantitative Life Sciences Graduate Program, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.

Astrocytes are abundant cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and are
involved in processes including synapse formation/function, ion homeostasis,
neurotransmitter uptake, and neurovascular coupling. Recent evidence indicates
that astrocytes show diverse molecular, structural, and physiological properties 
within the CNS. This heterogeneity is reflected in differences in astrocyte
structure, gene expression, functional properties, and responsiveness to
injury/pathological conditions. Deeper investigation of astrocytic heterogeneity 
is needed to understand how astrocytes are configured to enable diverse roles in 
the CNS. While much has been learned about astrocytic heterogeneity in rodents,
much less is known about astrocytic heterogeneity in the primate brain where
astrocytes have greater size and complexity. The common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) is a promising non-human primate model because of similarities between
marmosets and humans with respect to genetics, brain anatomy, and
cognition/behavior. Here, we investigated the molecular and structural
heterogeneity of marmoset astrocytes using an array of astrocytic markers,
multi-label confocal microscopy, and quantitative analysis. We used male and
female marmosets and found that marmoset astrocytes show differences in
expression of astrocytic markers in cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. These
differences were accompanied by intra-regional variation in expression of markers
for glutamate/GABA transporters, and potassium and water channels. Differences in
astrocyte structure were also found, along with complex interactions with blood
vessels, microglia, and neurons. This study contributes to our knowledge of the
cellular and molecular features of marmoset astrocytes and is useful for
understanding the complex properties of astrocytes in the primate CNS.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Neuroscience Research published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.24967 
PMID: 34716617 


52. Syst Appl Microbiol. 2021 Nov;44(6):126273. doi: 10.1016/j.syapm.2021.126273.
Epub 2021 Oct 19.

Phylogenetic classification of ten novel species belonging to the genus
Bifidobacterium comprising B. phasiani sp. nov., B. pongonis sp. nov., B.
saguinibicoloris sp. nov., B. colobi sp. nov., B. simiiventris sp. nov., B.
santillanense sp. nov., B. miconis sp. nov., B. amazonense sp. nov., B.
pluvialisilvae sp. nov., and B. miconisargentati sp. nov.

Lugli GA(1), Calvete-Torre I(2), Alessandri G(1), Milani C(3), Turroni F(3),
Laiolo P(4), Ossiprandi MC(5), Margolles A(2), Ruiz L(6), Ventura M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Probiogenomics, Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences, and
Environmental Sustainability, University of Parma, 43124 Parma, Italy.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Biochemistry of Dairy Products, Dairy Research 
Institute of Asturias, Spanish National Research Council (IPLA-CSIC), Paseo Río
Linares sn 33300 Villaviciosa, Asturias, Spain; Functionality and Ecology of
Beneficial Microbes (MicroHealth) Group, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del
Principado de Asturias (ISPA), Avda. Roma s/n, 33011 Oviedo, Asturias, Spain.
(3)Laboratory of Probiogenomics, Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences, and
Environmental Sustainability, University of Parma, 43124 Parma, Italy; Microbiome
Research Hub, University of Parma, 43124 Parma, Italy.
(4)Biodiversity Research Institute (CSIC, Oviedo University, Principality of
Asturias), Mieres, Spain.
(5)Microbiome Research Hub, University of Parma, 43124 Parma, Italy; Department
of Veterinary Medical Science, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Biochemistry of Dairy Products, Dairy Research 
Institute of Asturias, Spanish National Research Council (IPLA-CSIC), Paseo Río
Linares sn 33300 Villaviciosa, Asturias, Spain; Functionality and Ecology of
Beneficial Microbes (MicroHealth) Group, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del
Principado de Asturias (ISPA), Avda. Roma s/n, 33011 Oviedo, Asturias, Spain.
Electronic address: lorena.ruiz@ipla.csic.es.
(7)Laboratory of Probiogenomics, Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences, and
Environmental Sustainability, University of Parma, 43124 Parma, Italy; Microbiome
Research Hub, University of Parma, 43124 Parma, Italy. Electronic address:
marco.ventura@unipr.it.

Ten Bifidobacterium strains, i.e., 6T3, 64T4, 79T10, 80T4, 81T8, 82T1, 82T10,
82T18, 82T24, and 82T25, were isolated from mantled guereza (Colobus guereza),
Sumatran orangutan (Pongo abeli), silvery marmoset (Mico argentatus), golden lion
tamarin (Leontopithecus rosalia), pied tamarin (Saguinus bicolor), and common
pheasant (Phaisanus colchinus). Cells are Gram-positive, non-motile,
non-sporulating, facultative anaerobic, and fructose 6-phosphate
phosphoketolase-positive. Phylogenetic analyses based on the core genome
sequences revealed that isolated strains exhibit close phylogenetic relatedness
with Bifidobacterium genus members belonging to the Bifidobacterium bifidum,
Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium pullorum, and Bifidobacterium tissieri
phylogenetic groups. Phenotypic characterization and genotyping based on the
genome sequences clearly show that these strains are distinct from each of the
type strains of the so far recognized Bifidobacterium species. Thus, B. phasiani 
sp. nov. (6T3 = LMG 32224T = DSM 112544T), B. pongonis sp. nov. (64T4 = LMG
32281T = DSM 112547T), B. saguinibicoloris sp. nov. (79T10 = LMG 32232T = DSM
112543T), B. colobi sp. nov. (80T4 = LMG 32225T = DSM 112552T), B. simiiventris
sp. nov. (81T8 = LMG 32226T = DSM 112549T), B. santillanense sp. nov. (82T1 = LMG
32284T = DSM 112550T), B. miconis sp. nov. (82T10 = LMG 32282T = DSM 112551T), B.
amazonense sp. nov. (82T18 = LMG 32297T = DSM 112548T), pluvialisilvae sp. nov.
(82T24 = LMG 32229T = DSM 112545T), and B. miconisargentati sp. nov. (82T25 = LMG
32283T = DSM 112546T) are proposed as novel Bifidobacterium species.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.syapm.2021.126273 
PMID: 34715437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

