

511. Neural Netw. 2019 Aug;116:25-34. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2019.03.014. Epub 2019 Apr
1.

Semi-supervised deep learning of brain tissue segmentation.

Ito R(1), Nakae K(1), Hata J(2), Okano H(2), Ishii S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Yoshida-honmachi, Kyoto,
606-8501, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan; Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center
for Brain Science, Wako-shi, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Yoshida-honmachi, Kyoto,
606-8501, Japan. Electronic address: ishii@i.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Brain image segmentation is of great importance not only for clinical use but
also for neuroscience research. Recent developments in deep neural networks
(DNNs) have led to the application of DNNs to brain image segmentation, which
required extensive human annotations of whole brain images. Annotating
three-dimensional brain images requires laborious efforts by expert anatomists
because of the differences among images in terms of their dimensionality, noise, 
contrast, or ambiguous boundaries that even prevent these experts from
necessarily attaining consistency. This paper proposes a semi-supervised learning
framework to train a DNN based on a relatively small number of annotated
(labeled) images, named atlases, but also a relatively large number of unlabeled 
images by leveraging image registration to attach pseudo-labels to images that
were originally unlabeled. We applied our proposed method to two different
datasets: open human brain images and our original marmoset brain images. When
provided with the same number of atlases for training, we found our method
achieved superior and more stable segmentation results than those by existing
registration-based and DNN-based methods.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2019.03.014 
PMID: 30986724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. J Comp Psychol. 2019 Nov;133(4):474-487. doi: 10.1037/com0000169. Epub 2019 Apr
15.

Food sharing patterns in three species of callitrichid monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus, Leontopithecus chrysomelas, Saguinus midas): Individual and species
differences.

Guerreiro Martins EM(1), Moura ACA(2), Finkenwirth C(1), Griesser M(3), Burkart
JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology.
(2)Departamento de Engenharia e Meio Ambiente.
(3)Department of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies.

Food sharing (FS) in cooperatively breeding callitrichids is unusual among
nonhuman primates because they regularly share significant amounts of preferred
food with immatures and engage in proactive FS. However, it is still unclear
which classes of individuals (males or females, breeders or helpers) engage most 
in FS, and whether differences exist among callitrichid species. In the first
part of this study, we characterized general FS patterns in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). We found substantial adult-immature FS, and female breeders
shared the least with immatures. This conflicts with previously published
studies, where data were collected with the prevailing standard method of
providing a food bowl to the entire group. In the second part, a comparison of
our access-bias-free method and the standard method suggested that previous
findings are likely the result of access bias. In the third part, we investigated
species differences in adult-adult FS among common marmosets, golden-headed lion 
tamarins (Leontopithecus chrysomelas), and red-handed tamarins (Saguinus midas). 
As common marmosets show lower levels of interdependence within groups, we
expected more adult-adult FS in tamarins compared with marmosets. Adult-adult FS 
was indeed more prevalent in tamarins and not exclusively directed from male
breeders to female breeders. Therefore, our results suggest that adult-adult FS
in marmosets mostly reflects the high energetic demands of female breeders,
whereas in the more interdependent tamarins, it may be used to reinforce
cooperative bonds between adult group members. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019
APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000169 
PMID: 30985161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

