

513. Front Neuroanat. 2019 Mar 27;13:36. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00036. eCollection
2019.

Cyto- and Myelo-Architecture of the Amygdaloid Complex of the Common Marmoset
Monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Araújo Góis Morais PL(1)(2), García-Amado M(2), Lima RRM(1), Córdoba-Claros A(2),
Souza Cavalcante J(3), Clascá F(2), Nascimento ES Jr(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brazil.
(2)Department of Anatomy & Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Autonoma de Madrid
University, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Physiology, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
Brazil.

The amygdaloid complex (AC) is a heterogeneous aggregate of nuclei located in the
rostromedial region of the temporal lobe. In addition to being partly connected
among themselves, the AC nuclei are strongly interconnected with the cerebral
cortex, striatum, basal forebrain, hypothalamus and brainstem. Animal and human
functional studies have established that the AC is a central hub of the neuronal 
networks supporting emotional responsivity, particularly its negative/aversive
components. Dysfunction of AC circuits in humans has been implicated in anxiety, 
depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The small New-World marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has recently become a key model for neuroscience
research. However, the nuclear and fiber tract organization of marmoset AC has
not been examined in detail. Thus, the extent to which it can be compared to the 
AC of Old-World (human and macaque) primates is yet unclear. Here, using Nissl
and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemical stains as a reference, we analyzed 
the cytoarchitecture and nuclear parcellation of the marmoset AC. In addition,
given the increasing relevance of tractographic localization for high-resolution 
in vivo imaging studies in non-human primates, we also identified the myelin
fiber tracts present within and around the AC as revealed by the Gallyas method. 
The present study provides a detailed atlas of marmoset AC. Moreover, it reveals 
that, despite phylogenetic distance and brain size differences, every nucleus and
myelinated axon bundle described in human and macaque studies can be confidently 
recognized in marmosets.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00036 
PMCID: PMC6446959
PMID: 30971903 


514. Brain Struct Funct. 2019 Jun;224(5):1957-1969. doi: 10.1007/s00429-019-01869-x.
Epub 2019 Apr 8.

In vivo localization of cortical areas using a 3D computerized atlas of the
marmoset brain.

Risser L(1), Sadoun A(2), Mescam M(2), Strelnikov K(2), Lebreton S(1), Boucher
S(2), Girard P(2)(3), Vayssière N(2), Rosa MGP(4)(5), Fonta C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Mathématiques de Toulouse, UMR5219, Université de Toulouse, CNRS, 
UPS IMT, 31062, Toulouse Cedex 9, France.
(2)Centre de recherche Cerveau et Cognition (CerCo), Université de Toulouse UPS, 
CNRS, UMR 5549, CHU Purpan, Pavillon Baudot, BP 25202, 31052, Toulouse Cedex 3,
France.
(3)INSERM, Toulouse, France.
(4)Department of Physiology, Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University, 
26 Innovation Walk, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia. marcello.rosa@monash.edu.
(5)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
marcello.rosa@monash.edu.
(6)Centre de recherche Cerveau et Cognition (CerCo), Université de Toulouse UPS, 
CNRS, UMR 5549, CHU Purpan, Pavillon Baudot, BP 25202, 31052, Toulouse Cedex 3,
France. caroline.fonta@cnrs.fr.

We created a volumetric template of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain,
which enables localization of the cortical areas defined in the Paxinos et al.
(The marmoset brain in stereotaxic coordinates. Elsevier Academic Press,
Cambridge, 2012) marmoset brain atlas, as well as seven broader cortical regions 
(occipital, temporal, parietal, prefrontal, motor, limbic, insular), different
brain compartments (white matter, gray matter, cerebro-spinal fluid including
ventricular spaces), and various other structures (brain stem, cerebellum,
olfactory bulb, hippocampus). The template was designed from T1-weighted MR
images acquired using a 3 T MRI scanner. It was based on a single fully segmented
marmoset brain image, which was transported onto the mean of 13 adult marmoset
brain images using a diffeomorphic strategy that fully preserves the brain
topology. In addition, we offer an automatic segmentation pipeline which fully
exploits the proposed template. The segmentation pipeline was quantitatively
assessed by comparing the results of manual and automated segmentations. An
associated program, written in Python, can be used from a command-line interface,
or used interactively as a module of the 3DSlicer software. This program can be
applied to the analysis of multimodal images, to map specific cortical areas in
lesions or to define the seeds for further tractography analyses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-019-01869-x 
PMID: 30963231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

