

517. Neuron. 2019 Apr 3;102(1):21-26. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2019.02.030.

Learning How Neurons Fail Inside of Networks: Nonhuman Primates Provide Critical 
Data for Psychiatry.

Heilbronner SR(1), Chafee MV(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA;
Brain Sciences Center, VA Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN, USA. Electronic
address: chafe001@umn.edu.

Advancing psychiatry requires understanding brain malfunction at a microscopic
scale, where neurons and synapses operate under constraints imposed by behavior, 
cognition, and neural architecture. Nonhuman primates are unmatched in
approximating the structural and computational environment of the human brain.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2019.02.030 
PMCID: PMC6734550
PMID: 30946820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Sci Rep. 2019 Apr 2;9(1):5474. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-41950-3.

Epizootics due to Yellow Fever Virus in São Paulo State, Brazil: viral
dissemination to new areas (2016-2017).

Cunha MS(1), da Costa AC(2), de Azevedo Fernandes NCC(3), Guerra JM(3), Dos
Santos FCP(4), Nogueira JS(4), D'Agostino LG(4), Komninakis SV(5)(6), Witkin
SS(7)(8), Ressio RA(3), Maeda AY(4), Vasami FGS(4), Kaigawa UMA(4), de Azevedo
LS(4), de Souza Facioli PA(4), Macedo FLL(4), Sabino EC(7), Leal É(9), de Souza
RP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Vector-Borne Diseases Group, Virology Center, Adolfo Lutz Institute, Sao
Paulo, Brazil. masequetin@gmail.com.
(2)Institute of Tropical Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
charlysbr@yahoo.com.br.
(3)Pathology Center, Adolfo Lutz Institute, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Vector-Borne Diseases Group, Virology Center, Adolfo Lutz Institute, Sao
Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Retrovirology, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
(6)Post-Graduate Program in Health Sciences, FMABC, Santo Andre, Brazil.
(7)Institute of Tropical Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(8)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New
York, USA.
(9)Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Para, Belem, Brazil.

Beginning in late 2016 Brazil faced the worst outbreak of Yellow Fever in recent 
decades, mainly located in southeastern rural regions of the country. In the
present study we characterize the Yellow Fever Virus (YFV) associated with this
outbreak in São Paulo State, Brazil. Blood or tissues collected from 430 dead
monkeys and 1030 pools containing a total of 5,518 mosquitoes were tested for YFV
by quantitative RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry (IHC) and indirect
immunofluorescence. A total of 67 monkeys were YFV-positive and 3 pools yielded
YFV following culture in a C6/36 cell line. Analysis of five nearly full length
genomes of YFV from collected samples was consistent with evidence that the virus
associated with the São Paulo outbreak originated in Minas Gerais. The
phylogenetic analysis also showed that strains involved in the 2016-2017 outbreak
in distinct Brazilian states (i.e., Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Espirito Santo)
intermingled in maximum-likelihood and Bayesian trees. Conversely, the strains
detected in São Paulo formed a monophyletic cluster, suggesting that they were
local-adapted. The finding of YFV by RT-PCR in five Callithrix monkeys who were
all YFV-negative by histopathology or immunohistochemistry suggests that this YFV
lineage circulating in Sao Paulo is associated with different outcomes in
Callithrix when compared to other monkeys.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-41950-3 
PMCID: PMC6445104
PMID: 30940867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

