

522. J Endocrinol. 2019 Jun 1;241(3):175-187. doi: 10.1530/JOE-18-0574.

Irisin in the primate hypothalamus and its effect on GnRH in vitro.

Wahab F(1), Khan IU(2), Polo IR(1)(3), Zubair H(2), Drummer C(1)(3), Shahab M(2),
Behr R(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Animal Sciences, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam
University, Islamabad, Pakistan.
(3)DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Göttingen,
Göttingen, Germany.

Irisin, encoded by the FNDC5 gene, is a recently discovered endocrine factor
mainly secreted as a myokine and adipokine. However, irisin/FNDC5 expression has 
also been reported in different other organs including components of the
reproductive axis. Yet, there is the scarcity of data on FNDC5/irisin expression,
regulation and its reproductive effects, particularly in primates. Here, we
report the expression of FNDC5/irisin, along with PGC1A (peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha) and ERRA
(estrogen-related receptor alpha), in components of the reproductive axis of
marmoset monkeys. Hypothalamic FNDC5 and ERRA transcript levels are
developmentally regulated in both male and female. We further uncovered
sex-specific differences in FNDC5, ERRA and PGC1A expression in muscle and the
reproductive axis. Moreover, irisin and ERRα co-localize in the marmoset
hypothalamus. Additionally, in the arcuate nucleus of rhesus monkeys, the number 
of irisin+ cells was significantly increased in short-term fasted monkeys as
compared to ad libitum-fed monkeys. More importantly, we observed putative
interaction of irisin-immunoreactive fibers and few GnRH-immunoreactive cell
bodies in the mediobasal hypothalamus of the rhesus monkeys. Functionally, we
noted a stimulatory effect of irisin on GnRH synthesis and release in mouse
hypothalamic neuronal GT1-7 cells. In summary, our findings show that FNDC5 and
irisin are developmentally, metabolic-status dependently and sex-specifically
expressed in the primate hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and exert a
stimulatory effect on GnRH expression and release in mouse hypothalamic cells.
Further studies are required to confirm the reproductive effects of irisin in
vivo and to illuminate the mechanisms of its regulation.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-18-0574 
PMID: 30913538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Comp Med. 2019 Apr 1;69(2):135-143. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000045. Epub 2019
Mar 22.

Serum Cobalamin and Folate Concentrations in Common Marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with Chronic Lymphocytic Enteritis.

Parambeth JC(1), Ross CN(2), Miller AD(3), Austad SN(4), Lidbury JA(5),
Suchodolski JS(5), Steiner JM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A and M University, College 
Station, Texas;, Email: JCyrus@cvm.tamu.edu.
(2)College of Arts and Sciences, Texas A and M University-San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Section of Anatomic Pathology, College of
Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.
(4)Department of Biology and Nathan Shock Center of Excellence in the Basic
Biology of Aging, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama.
(5)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A and M University, College 
Station, Texas.

Serum cobalamin and folate concentrations can serve as surrogate markers of
gastrointestinal disease in dogs and cats, where they can have diagnostic,
therapeutic, and prognostic implications. Chronic disease of the gastrointestinal
tract, particularly chronic lymphocytic enteritis (CLE), occurs frequently in
captive common marmosets. The aims of this study were to validate a commercially 
available assay for measuring serum cobalamin and folate concentrations in common
marmosets, to establish reference intervals for these analytes in healthy
marmosets, and to measure serum concentrations in common marmosets with CLE. The 
commercial assay was linear, accurate, precise, and reproducible for the
measurement of serum cobalamin and folate concentrations in common marmosets. In 
healthy marmosets, the serum cobalamin concentration ranged from 322 to 2642
pg/mL (n = 35) and serum folate concentration from 54.8 to 786.4 ng/mL (n = 37). 
Low serum folate concentrations were moderately sensitive (greater than 70%) for 
CLE, and low serum cobalamin concentrations were moderately (greater than 70%)
specific for CLE. Both serum cobalamin and folate concentrations were relatively 
unchanged in marmosets during 120 to 220 d. Serum cobalamin and folate
concentrations were stable for approximately 7 y when samples were stored at -80 
°C. Additional studies are warranted to further study the clinical implications
of low serum cobalamin and folate concentrations in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000045 
PMCID: PMC6464084
PMID: 30902119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

