

530. Physiol Behav. 2019 May 15;204:290-296. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2019.03.004. Epub 
2019 Mar 7.

Dopamine receptor manipulation does not alter patterns of partner preference in
long-term marmoset pairs.

Carp SB(1), Taylor JH(2), French JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, 6001 Dodge St, Omaha, NE 68182, United States. Electronic address:
scarp@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, 6001 Dodge St, Omaha, NE 68182, United States.

The relationship between socially monogamous mates is dynamic and regulated by
neurobiological influences. Research in rodent models has indicated a key role
for the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) and its receptors (DAR) in mediating the
formation and maintenance of monogamous bonds. DAR activation was
pharmacologically manipulated in marmosets housed in long-term pairs. Marmosets
exposed to DAR manipulation were tested in a partner preference test under two
social conditions: one in which their mate could visually observe their
interactions with an opposite-sex individual, and one in which their pair mate
could not visually observe these interactions. Marmosets displayed a spatial
preference for the mate compared to an unfamiliar conspecific, however, they
displayed a sexual preference for an unfamiliar conspecific over their mate. D1R 
manipulation had no impact on marmoset partner preference. However, activation of
D2Rs reduced the time marmosets spent in contact with either stimulus animal,
indicating a decrease in social interest, but did not reduce time spent in
proximity to the stimulus animals nor number of sexual solicitations.
Additionally, social context (visibility of the mate) did not influence marmoset 
behavior. These findings suggest that D2Rs may be involved in regulating
generalized, but not partner-specific, social interest in marmoset monkeys.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2019.03.004 
PMCID: PMC6475494
PMID: 30853621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Ann Neurol. 2019 Jun;85(6):934-942. doi: 10.1002/ana.25461. Epub 2019 Mar 30.

The "central vein sign" in inflammatory demyelination: The role of fibrillar
collagen type I.

Absinta M(1), Nair G(1), Monaco MCG(1), Maric D(1), Lee NJ(1), Ha SK(1), Luciano 
NJ(1), Sati P(1), Jacobson S(1), Reich DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda, MD.

Accumulating evidence corroborates the role of the "central vein sign" in the
radiological diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS). Here, we report human magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) and corresponding pathological data that
inflammation-dependent intracerebral remodeling of the vessel wall is directly
associated with the prominence of intralesional veins on susceptibility-based
MRI. In adult marmosets with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis,
vessel-wall fibrosis was detected early in the demyelinating process, even in
lesions <2 weeks old, though fibrosis was more evident after 6 weeks. Vascular
remodeling consisted of both luminal enlargement and eccentric thickening of the 
perivascular space (fibrillar collagen type I deposition) and affected almost
exclusively white matter, but not subpial cortical, lesions. The long-term effect
of vessel remodeling in MS lesions is currently unknown, but it might potentially
affect tissue repair. ANN NEUROL 2019;85:934-942.

Published 2019. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.25461 
PMCID: PMC6520117
PMID: 30847935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

