

541. Nat Commun. 2019 Feb 26;10(1):941. doi: 10.1038/s41467-019-08894-8.

Contrast and luminance adaptation alter neuronal coding and perception of
stimulus orientation.

Ghodrati M(1)(2), Zavitz E(3)(4), Rosa MGP(3)(4), Price NSC(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
masoud.ghodrati@monash.edu.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University,
Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia. masoud.ghodrati@monash.edu.
(3)Department of Physiology, Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(4)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University,
Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(5)Department of Physiology, Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
nicholas.price@monash.edu.
(6)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University,
Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia. nicholas.price@monash.edu.

Sensory systems face a barrage of stimulation that continually changes along
multiple dimensions. These simultaneous changes create a formidable problem for
the nervous system, as neurons must dynamically encode each stimulus dimension,
despite changes in other dimensions. Here, we measured how neurons in visual
cortex encode orientation following changes in luminance and contrast, which are 
critical for visual processing, but nuisance variables in the context of
orientation coding. Using information theoretic analysis and population decoding 
approaches, we find that orientation discriminability is luminance and contrast
dependent, changing over time due to firing rate adaptation. We also show that
orientation discrimination in human observers changes during adaptation, in a
manner consistent with the neuronal data. Our results suggest that adaptation
does not maintain information rates per se, but instead acts to keep sensory
systems operating within the limited dynamic range afforded by spiking activity, 
despite a wide range of possible inputs.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-08894-8 
PMCID: PMC6391449
PMID: 30808863  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Comp Med. 2019 Apr 1;69(2):130-134. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000040. Epub 2019
Feb 25.

Fecal Concentrations of N-methylhistamine in Common Marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Parambeth JC(1), LÃ³pez FR(2), Lopez R(3), Keyser SB(4), Lidbury JA(4),
Suchodolski JS(4), Steiner JM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences;, Email: JCyrus@cvm.tamu.edu.
(2)Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory, Center for Bioinformatical and
Genomic Systems Engineering, Texas A and M University, College Station, Texas.
(3)Engineering Experiment Station, Center for Bioinformatical and Genomic Systems
Engineering, Texas A and M University, College Station, Texas.
(4)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences.

Chronic lymphocytic enteritis (CLE) is a frequent disease in common marmosets.
However, no diagnostic test for early detection of CLE is available. Mast cells
have an important role in gastrointestinal disease. The purpose of this study was
to measure fecal concentrations of N-methylhistamine (NMH), a breakdown product
of histamine metabolism, in common marmosets. A previously established NMH gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry assay for canine feces and urine was used, and
partial validation was performed. The reference intervals (n = 30) established
for fecal NMH concentrations in common marmoset were 118.2 ng/g or less for a
single fecal sample, 121.7 ng/g or less for the 3-d mean, and less than or equal 
to 167.5 ng/g for the 3-d maximum. Considerable day-to-day variation was observed
in fecal NMH concentrations; the mean %CV was 42.2% (minimum, 7.1%; maximum,
141.4%). Fecal NMH concentrations were measured in 14 marmosets for which
necropsy reports were available; 7 of the 8 marmosets with CLE and the 1 animal
with lymphoma and ulcerative enteritis had increased fecal NMH concentrations.
Increased fecal NMH concentrations may serve as a potential marker for CLE;
however, further studies exploring the role of mast cells in marmosets with CLE
are needed.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000040 
PMCID: PMC6464085
PMID: 30803469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

