

543. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22960. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22960. Epub 2019 Feb 25.

Age-related changes in the marmoset gut microbiome.

Reveles KR(1)(2), Patel S(1)(2), Forney L(3), Ross CN(4)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Phamacotherapy Division, College of Pharmacy, The University of Texas at
Austin, Austin, Texas.
(2)Pharmacotherapy Education & Research Center, University of Texas Health San
Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho.
(4)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas.
(5)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Research, University of Texas Health
San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.
(6)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.

The gut microbiome is known to play a significant role in human health but its
role in aging remains unclear. The objective of this study was to compare the gut
microbiome composition between young adult and geriatric non-human primates
(marmosets) as a model of human health and disease. Stool samples were collected 
from geriatric (8+ years) and young adult males (2-5 years). Stool 16S ribosomal 
RNA V4 sequences were amplified and sequenced on the Illumina MiSeq platform.
Sequences were clustered into operational taxonomic units and classified via
Mothur's Bayesian classifier referenced against the Greengenes database. A total 
of 10 young adult and 10 geriatric marmosets were included. Geriatric marmosets
had a lower mean Shannon diversity compared with young marmosets (3.15 vs. 3.46; 
p = 0.0191). Geriatric marmosets had a significantly higher mean abundance of
Proteobacteria (0.22 vs. 0.09; p = 0.0233) and lower abundance of Firmicutes
(0.15 vs. 0.19; p = 0.0032) compared with young marmosets. Geriatric marmosets
had a significantly higher abundance of Succinivibrionaceae (0.16 vs. 0.01;
p = 0.0191) and lower abundance of Porphyromonadaceae (0.07 vs. 0.11;
p = 0.0494). In summary, geriatric marmosets had significantly altered microbiome
diversity and composition compared with young adult marmosets. Further studies
are needed to test microbiome-targeted therapies to improve healthspan and
lifespan.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22960 
PMCID: PMC6414241
PMID: 30802990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Am J Vet Res. 2019 Mar;80(3):259-264. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.80.3.259.

Development and analytic validation of a sandwich ELISA for the measurement of
α1-proteinase inhibitor concentrations in serum and feces of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Parambeth JC, Lidbury JA, Suchodolski JS, Steiner JM.

OBJECTIVE To develop and validate a sandwich ELISA for the measurement of
α1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-PI) concentrations in serum and fecal samples
obtained from common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). SAMPLE Leftover serum (n =
42) and fecal (23) samples submitted for diagnostic testing; paired serum and
fecal samples obtained from 30 common marmosets at 2 research colonies.
PROCEDURES A sandwich ELISA was developed and analytically validated by
determining the lower limit of detection, linearity, accuracy, precision, and
reproducibility. Reference intervals for α1-PI concentrations in serum and feces 
of common marmosets were calculated. RESULTS The standard curve was generated for
concentrations between 1 and 100 ng/mL. Mean ± SD observed-to-expected ratio for 
serial dilutions of serum and fecal samples was 117.1 ± 5.6% (range, 112.2% to
123.0%) and 106.1 ± 19.7% (range, 82.6% to 130.2%), respectively. Mean
observed-to-expected ratio for spiking recovery of serum and fecal samples was
102.9 ± 12.1% (range, 86.8% to 115.8%) and 97.9 ± 19.0% (range, 83.0% to 125.1%),
respectively. Reference interval for serum concentrations of α1-PI was 1,254 to
1,813 μg/mL, for 3-day mean fecal concentrations was 11.5 to 42.2 μg/g of feces, 
and for 3-day maximum fecal concentrations was 13.2 to 51.2 μg/g of feces.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE The ELISA was linear, accurate, precise, and
reproducible for quantification of α1-PI concentrations in serum and feces of
common marmosets. However, the ELISA had limited linearity and accuracy for
spiking recovery of fecal samples.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.80.3.259 
PMID: 30801206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

