

544. Am J Vet Res. 2019 Mar;80(3):259-264. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.80.3.259.

Development and analytic validation of a sandwich ELISA for the measurement of
α1-proteinase inhibitor concentrations in serum and feces of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Parambeth JC, Lidbury JA, Suchodolski JS, Steiner JM.

OBJECTIVE To develop and validate a sandwich ELISA for the measurement of
α1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-PI) concentrations in serum and fecal samples
obtained from common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). SAMPLE Leftover serum (n =
42) and fecal (23) samples submitted for diagnostic testing; paired serum and
fecal samples obtained from 30 common marmosets at 2 research colonies.
PROCEDURES A sandwich ELISA was developed and analytically validated by
determining the lower limit of detection, linearity, accuracy, precision, and
reproducibility. Reference intervals for α1-PI concentrations in serum and feces 
of common marmosets were calculated. RESULTS The standard curve was generated for
concentrations between 1 and 100 ng/mL. Mean ± SD observed-to-expected ratio for 
serial dilutions of serum and fecal samples was 117.1 ± 5.6% (range, 112.2% to
123.0%) and 106.1 ± 19.7% (range, 82.6% to 130.2%), respectively. Mean
observed-to-expected ratio for spiking recovery of serum and fecal samples was
102.9 ± 12.1% (range, 86.8% to 115.8%) and 97.9 ± 19.0% (range, 83.0% to 125.1%),
respectively. Reference interval for serum concentrations of α1-PI was 1,254 to
1,813 μg/mL, for 3-day mean fecal concentrations was 11.5 to 42.2 μg/g of feces, 
and for 3-day maximum fecal concentrations was 13.2 to 51.2 μg/g of feces.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE The ELISA was linear, accurate, precise, and
reproducible for quantification of α1-PI concentrations in serum and feces of
common marmosets. However, the ELISA had limited linearity and accuracy for
spiking recovery of fecal samples.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.80.3.259 
PMID: 30801206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Dec 17;29(11):4818-4830. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhz015.

Hippocampal Interaction With Area 25, but not Area 32, Regulates Marmoset
Approach-Avoidance Behavior.

Wallis CU(1), Cockcroft GJ(1), Cardinal RN(2)(3), Roberts AC(1), Clarke HF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2 3DY, UK.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Box 189, Level E4, Cambridge Biomedical Campus,
Cambridge, CB2 OQQ, UK.
(3)Liaison Psychiatry Service, Cambridge and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust,
Box 190, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge, CB2 OQQ, UK.

Affective disorders are associated with increased sensitivity to negative
feedback that influences approach-avoidance decision making. Although
neuroimaging studies of these disorders reveal dysregulation in primate cingulate
areas 25 and 32 and the anterior hippocampus (aHipp), the causal involvement of
these structures and their interaction in the primate brain is unknown. We
therefore investigated the effects of localized pharmacological manipulations of 
areas 25 and 32 and/or the aHipp of the marmoset monkey on performance of an
anxiolytic-sensitive instrumental decision-making task in which an
approach-avoidance conflict is created by pairing a response with reward and
punishment. During control infusions animals avoided punishment, but this bias
was reduced by increasing glutamate release within the aHipp or area 32, and
inactivation or 5-HT1a antagonism within area 25. Conversely, increasing
glutamate release in area 25 enhanced punishment avoidance but, in contrast to
previous reports, area 32 and aHipp inactivations had no effect. Simultaneous
inactivation or 5-HT1a antagonism within area 25, but not area 32, abolished the 
reduced punishment avoidance seen after increasing aHipp glutamate. Besides
providing causal evidence that these primate areas differentially regulate
negative feedback sensitivity, this study links the decision-making deficits in
affective disorders to aberrant aHipp-area 25 circuit activity.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhz015 
PMCID: PMC6917514
PMID: 30796800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

