

545. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Dec 17;29(11):4818-4830. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhz015.

Hippocampal Interaction With Area 25, but not Area 32, Regulates Marmoset
Approach-Avoidance Behavior.

Wallis CU(1), Cockcroft GJ(1), Cardinal RN(2)(3), Roberts AC(1), Clarke HF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2 3DY, UK.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Box 189, Level E4, Cambridge Biomedical Campus,
Cambridge, CB2 OQQ, UK.
(3)Liaison Psychiatry Service, Cambridge and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust,
Box 190, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge, CB2 OQQ, UK.

Affective disorders are associated with increased sensitivity to negative
feedback that influences approach-avoidance decision making. Although
neuroimaging studies of these disorders reveal dysregulation in primate cingulate
areas 25 and 32 and the anterior hippocampus (aHipp), the causal involvement of
these structures and their interaction in the primate brain is unknown. We
therefore investigated the effects of localized pharmacological manipulations of 
areas 25 and 32 and/or the aHipp of the marmoset monkey on performance of an
anxiolytic-sensitive instrumental decision-making task in which an
approach-avoidance conflict is created by pairing a response with reward and
punishment. During control infusions animals avoided punishment, but this bias
was reduced by increasing glutamate release within the aHipp or area 32, and
inactivation or 5-HT1a antagonism within area 25. Conversely, increasing
glutamate release in area 25 enhanced punishment avoidance but, in contrast to
previous reports, area 32 and aHipp inactivations had no effect. Simultaneous
inactivation or 5-HT1a antagonism within area 25, but not area 32, abolished the 
reduced punishment avoidance seen after increasing aHipp glutamate. Besides
providing causal evidence that these primate areas differentially regulate
negative feedback sensitivity, this study links the decision-making deficits in
affective disorders to aberrant aHipp-area 25 circuit activity.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhz015 
PMCID: PMC6917514
PMID: 30796800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2019 May;69(5):1288-1298. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003306.
Epub 2019 Feb 21.

Characterization of the phylogenetic diversity of five novel species belonging to
the genus Bifidobacterium: Bifidobacterium castoris sp. nov., Bifidobacterium
callimiconis sp. nov., Bifidobacterium goeldii sp. nov., Bifidobacterium samirii 
sp. nov. and Bifidobacterium dolichotidis sp. nov.

Duranti S(1), Lugli GA(1), Napoli S(1), Anzalone R(1), Milani C(1), Mancabelli
L(1), Alessandri G(2), Turroni F(1), Ossiprandi MC(2), van Sinderen D(2)(3),
Ventura M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1​Laboratory of Probiogenomics, Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences and
Environmental Sustainability, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(2)2​Department of Veterinary Medical Science, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(3)3​APC Microbiome Institute and School of Microbiology, National University of 
Ireland, Cork, Ireland.

Five Bifidobacterium strains, i.e. 2020BT, 2028BT, 2033BT, 2034BT and 2036BT,
were isolated from European beaver (Castor fiber), Goeldi's marmoset
(Callimicogoeldii), black-capped squirrel monkey (Saimiriboliviensissubsp.
peruviensis) and Patagonian mara (Dolichotispatagonum). All of these isolates
were shown to be Gram-positive, facultative anaerobic, d-fructose 6-phosphate
phosphoketolase-positive, non-motile and non-sporulating. Phylogenetic analyses
based on 16S rRNA gene sequences, multilocus sequences (including hsp60, rpoB,
dnaJ, dnaG and clpC genes) and the core genome revealed that bifidobacterial
strains 2020BT, 2028BT, 2033BT, 2034BT and 2036BT exhibit close phylogenetic
relatedness to Bifidobacterium biavatii DSM 23969T, Bifidobacterium bifidum LMG
11041T, Bifidobacterium choerinum LMG 10510T, Bifidobacterium gallicum LMG
11596T, Bifidobacterium imperatoris LMG 30297T, Bifidobacterium italicum LMG
30187T and Bifidobacterium vansinderenii LMG 30126T, respectively. Further
genotyping based on the genome sequence of the isolated strains combined with
phenotypic analyses, clearly show that these strains are distinct from each of
the type strains of the so far recognized Bifidobacterium species. Thus,
Bifidobacterium castoris sp. nov. (2020BT=LMG 30937T=CCUG 72816T),
Bifidobacterium callimiconis sp. nov. (2028BT=LMG 30938T=CCUG 72814T),
Bifidobacterium samirii sp. nov. (2033BT=LMG 30940T=CCUG 72817T), Bifidobacterium
goeldii sp. nov. (2034BT=LMG 30939T=CCUG 72815T) and Bifidobacterium dolichotidis
sp. nov. (2036BT=LMG 30941T=CCUG 72818T) are proposed as novel Bifidobacterium
species.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003306 
PMID: 30789326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

