

546. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2019 May;69(5):1288-1298. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003306.
Epub 2019 Feb 21.

Characterization of the phylogenetic diversity of five novel species belonging to
the genus Bifidobacterium: Bifidobacterium castoris sp. nov., Bifidobacterium
callimiconis sp. nov., Bifidobacterium goeldii sp. nov., Bifidobacterium samirii 
sp. nov. and Bifidobacterium dolichotidis sp. nov.

Duranti S(1), Lugli GA(1), Napoli S(1), Anzalone R(1), Milani C(1), Mancabelli
L(1), Alessandri G(2), Turroni F(1), Ossiprandi MC(2), van Sinderen D(2)(3),
Ventura M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1​Laboratory of Probiogenomics, Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences and
Environmental Sustainability, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(2)2​Department of Veterinary Medical Science, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(3)3​APC Microbiome Institute and School of Microbiology, National University of 
Ireland, Cork, Ireland.

Five Bifidobacterium strains, i.e. 2020BT, 2028BT, 2033BT, 2034BT and 2036BT,
were isolated from European beaver (Castor fiber), Goeldi's marmoset
(Callimicogoeldii), black-capped squirrel monkey (Saimiriboliviensissubsp.
peruviensis) and Patagonian mara (Dolichotispatagonum). All of these isolates
were shown to be Gram-positive, facultative anaerobic, d-fructose 6-phosphate
phosphoketolase-positive, non-motile and non-sporulating. Phylogenetic analyses
based on 16S rRNA gene sequences, multilocus sequences (including hsp60, rpoB,
dnaJ, dnaG and clpC genes) and the core genome revealed that bifidobacterial
strains 2020BT, 2028BT, 2033BT, 2034BT and 2036BT exhibit close phylogenetic
relatedness to Bifidobacterium biavatii DSM 23969T, Bifidobacterium bifidum LMG
11041T, Bifidobacterium choerinum LMG 10510T, Bifidobacterium gallicum LMG
11596T, Bifidobacterium imperatoris LMG 30297T, Bifidobacterium italicum LMG
30187T and Bifidobacterium vansinderenii LMG 30126T, respectively. Further
genotyping based on the genome sequence of the isolated strains combined with
phenotypic analyses, clearly show that these strains are distinct from each of
the type strains of the so far recognized Bifidobacterium species. Thus,
Bifidobacterium castoris sp. nov. (2020BT=LMG 30937T=CCUG 72816T),
Bifidobacterium callimiconis sp. nov. (2028BT=LMG 30938T=CCUG 72814T),
Bifidobacterium samirii sp. nov. (2033BT=LMG 30940T=CCUG 72817T), Bifidobacterium
goeldii sp. nov. (2034BT=LMG 30939T=CCUG 72815T) and Bifidobacterium dolichotidis
sp. nov. (2036BT=LMG 30941T=CCUG 72818T) are proposed as novel Bifidobacterium
species.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003306 
PMID: 30789326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22956. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22956. Epub 2019 Feb 18.

Loss of ferritin-positive microglia relates to increased iron, RNA oxidation, and
dystrophic microglia in the brains of aged male marmosets.

Rodríguez-Callejas JD(1), Cuervo-Zanatta D(1), Rosas-Arellano A(1), Fonta C(2),
Fuchs E(3), Perez-Cruz C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Center of Research in Advance Studies, Mexico
City, Mexico.
(2)Brain and Cognition Research Centre (CERCO), CNRS/University of Toulouse,
Toulouse, France.
(3)German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Göttingen,
Germany.

Microglia are cells that protect brain tissue from invading agents and toxic
substances, first by releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines, and thereafter by
clearing tissue by phagocytosis. Microglia express ferritin, a protein with
ferroxidase activity capable of storing iron, a metal that accumulates in brain
during aging. Increasing evidence suggests that ferritin plays an important role 
in inflammation. However, it is not known if ferritin/iron content can be related
to the activation state of microglia. To this end, we aimed to delineate the role
of ferritin in microglia activation in a non-human primate model. We analyzed
brains of male marmosets and observed an increased density of ferritin+ microglia
with an activated phenotype in hippocampus and cortex of old marmosets (mean age 
11.25 ± 0.70 years) compared to younger subjects. This was accompanied by an
increased number of dystrophic microglia in old marmosets. However, in aged
subjects (mean age 16.83 ± 2.59 years) the number of ferritin+ microglia was
decreased compared to old ones. Meanwhile, the content of iron in brain tissue
and cells with oxidized RNA increased during aging in all hippocampal and
cortical regions analyzed. Abundant amoeboid microglia were commonly observed
surrounding neurons with oxidized RNA. Notably, amoeboid microglia were
arginase1+ and IL-10+, indicative of a M2 phenotype. Some of those M2 cells also 
presented RNA oxidation and a dystrophic phenotype. Therefore, our data suggest
that ferritin confers protection to microglia in adult and old marmosets, while
in aged subjects the decline in ferritin and the increased amount of iron in
brain tissue may be related to the increased number of cells with oxidized RNA,
perhaps precluding the onset of neurodegeneration.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22956 
PMID: 30779205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

