

547. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22956. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22956. Epub 2019 Feb 18.

Loss of ferritin-positive microglia relates to increased iron, RNA oxidation, and
dystrophic microglia in the brains of aged male marmosets.

Rodríguez-Callejas JD(1), Cuervo-Zanatta D(1), Rosas-Arellano A(1), Fonta C(2),
Fuchs E(3), Perez-Cruz C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Center of Research in Advance Studies, Mexico
City, Mexico.
(2)Brain and Cognition Research Centre (CERCO), CNRS/University of Toulouse,
Toulouse, France.
(3)German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate Research, Göttingen,
Germany.

Microglia are cells that protect brain tissue from invading agents and toxic
substances, first by releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines, and thereafter by
clearing tissue by phagocytosis. Microglia express ferritin, a protein with
ferroxidase activity capable of storing iron, a metal that accumulates in brain
during aging. Increasing evidence suggests that ferritin plays an important role 
in inflammation. However, it is not known if ferritin/iron content can be related
to the activation state of microglia. To this end, we aimed to delineate the role
of ferritin in microglia activation in a non-human primate model. We analyzed
brains of male marmosets and observed an increased density of ferritin+ microglia
with an activated phenotype in hippocampus and cortex of old marmosets (mean age 
11.25 ± 0.70 years) compared to younger subjects. This was accompanied by an
increased number of dystrophic microglia in old marmosets. However, in aged
subjects (mean age 16.83 ± 2.59 years) the number of ferritin+ microglia was
decreased compared to old ones. Meanwhile, the content of iron in brain tissue
and cells with oxidized RNA increased during aging in all hippocampal and
cortical regions analyzed. Abundant amoeboid microglia were commonly observed
surrounding neurons with oxidized RNA. Notably, amoeboid microglia were
arginase1+ and IL-10+, indicative of a M2 phenotype. Some of those M2 cells also 
presented RNA oxidation and a dystrophic phenotype. Therefore, our data suggest
that ferritin confers protection to microglia in adult and old marmosets, while
in aged subjects the decline in ferritin and the increased amount of iron in
brain tissue may be related to the increased number of cells with oxidized RNA,
perhaps precluding the onset of neurodegeneration.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22956 
PMID: 30779205  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Cell Death Discov. 2019 Feb 11;5:67. doi: 10.1038/s41420-019-0149-7. eCollection 
2019.

Necroptosis in primate luteolysis: a role for ceramide.

Bagnjuk K(1), Stöckl JB(2), Fröhlich T(2), Arnold GJ(2), Behr R(3), Berg U(4),
Berg D(4), Kunz L(5), Bishop C(6), Xu J(6), Mayerhofer A(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Biomedical Center Munich (BMC), Cell Biology, Anatomy III,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU), Grosshaderner Strasse 9, Planegg, 82152
Germany.
(2)Laboratory for Functional Genome Analysis LAFUGA, Gene Center, LMU,
Feodor-Lynen Strasse 25, Munich, 81375 Germany.
(3)3Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, 37077 Germany.
(4)A.R.T. Bogenhausen, Prinzregentenstrasse 69, Munich, 81675 Germany.
(5)Department Biology II, Division of Neurobiology, LMU, Grosshaderner Strasse 2,
Planegg, 82152 Germany.
(6)6Division of Reproductive & Developmental Sciences, Oregon National Primate
Research Center, Oregon Health & Science University, 505 NW 185th Avenue,
Beaverton, Oregon 97006 USA.

The corpus luteum (CL) is a transient endocrine organ, yet molecular mechanisms
resulting in its demise are not well known. The presence of phosphorylated mixed 
lineage kinase domain-like pseudokinase pMLKL(T357/S358) in human and nonhuman
primate CL samples (Macaca mulatta and Callithrix jacchus) implied that
necroptosis of luteal cells may be involved. In M. mulatta CL, pMLKL positive
staining became detectable only from the mid-late luteal phase onwards, pointing 
to necroptosis during regression of the CL. Cell death, including necroptosis,
was previously observed in cultures of human luteal granulosa cells (GCs), an apt
model for the study of the human CL. To explore mechanisms of necroptotic cell
death in GCs during culture, we performed a proteomic analysis. The levels of 50 
proteins were significantly altered after 5 days of culture. Interconnectivity
analysis and immunocytochemistry implicated specifically the ceramide salvage
pathway to be enhanced. M. mulatta CL transcriptome analysis indicated in vivo
relevance. Perturbing endogenous ceramide generation by fumonisin B1 (FB1) and
addition of soluble ceramide (C2-CER) yielded opposite actions on viability of
GCs and therefore supported the significance of the ceramide pathway.
Morphological changes indicated necrotic cell death in the C2-CER treated group. 
Studies with the pan caspase blocker zVAD-fmk or the necroptosis blocker
necrosulfonamid (NSA) further supported that C2-CER induced necroptosis. Our data
pinpoint necroptosis in a physiological process, namely CL regression. This
raises the possibility that the primate CL could be rescued by pharmacological
inhibition of necroptosis or by interaction with ceramide metabolism.

DOI: 10.1038/s41420-019-0149-7 
PMCID: PMC6370808
PMID: 30774995 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.

