

551. Mol Pharmacol. 2019 Apr;95(4):376-385. doi: 10.1124/mol.118.114744. Epub 2019 Feb
9.

A Comparison of the Ability of Leu8- and Pro8-Oxytocin to Regulate Intracellular 
Ca2+ and Ca2+-Activated K+ Channels at Human and Marmoset Oxytocin Receptors.

Pierce ML(1), Mehrotra S(1), Mustoe AC(1), French JA(1), Murray TF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha,
Nebraska (M.L.P., S.M., T.F.M.); and Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska (A.C.M., J.A.F.).
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha,
Nebraska (M.L.P., S.M., T.F.M.); and Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska (A.C.M., J.A.F.) tfmurray@creighton.edu.

The neurohypophyseal hormone oxytocin (OT) regulates biologic functions in both
peripheral tissues and the central nervous system. In the central nervous system,
OT influences social processes, including peer relationships, maternal-infant
bonding, and affiliative social relationships. In mammals, the nonapeptide OT
structure is highly conserved with leucine in the eighth position (Leu8-OT). In
marmosets (Callithrix), a nonsynonymous nucleotide substitution in the OXT gene
codes for proline in the eighth residue position (Pro8-OT). OT binds to its
cognate G protein-coupled receptor (OTR) and exerts diverse effects, including
stimulation (Gs) or inhibition (Gi/o) of adenylyl cyclase, stimulation of
potassium channel currents (Gi), and activation of phospholipase C (Gq). Chinese 
hamster ovary cells expressing marmoset or human oxytocin receptors (mOTRs or
hOTRs, respectively) were used to characterize OT signaling. At the mOTR, Pro8-OT
was more efficacious than Leu8-OT in measures of Gq activation, with both
peptides displaying subnanomolar potencies. At the hOTR, neither the potency nor 
efficacy of Pro8-OT and Leu8-OT differed with respect to Gq signaling. In both
mOTR- and hOTR-expressing cells, Leu8-OT was more potent and modestly more
efficacious than Pro8-OT in inducing hyperpolarization. In mOTR cells,
Leu8-OT-induced hyperpolarization was modestly inhibited by pretreatment with
pertussis toxin (PTX), consistent with a minor role for Gi/o activation; however,
the Pro8-OT response in mOTR and hOTR cells was PTX insensitive. These findings
are consistent with membrane hyperpolarization being largely mediated by a Gq
signaling mechanism leading to Ca2+-dependent activation of K+ channels.
Evaluation of the influence of apamin, charybdotoxin, paxilline, and TRAM-34
demonstrated involvement of both intermediate and large conductance
Ca2+-activated K+ channels.

Copyright Â© 2019 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/mol.118.114744 
PMCID: PMC6402416
PMID: 30739093  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. PLoS One. 2019 Feb 7;14(2):e0207560. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207560.
eCollection 2019.

Characterization of oral microbiota in marmosets: Feasibility of using the
marmoset as a human oral disease model.

Takehara S(1)(2), Zeredo JL(3), Kumei Y(4), Kagiyama K(5), Fukasawa K(5), Oshiro 
A(2), Ueno M(2)(6), Kojimahara N(1), Minakuchi S(7), Kawaguchi Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Public Health, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Oral Health Promotion, Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Graduate Program in Health Sciences and Technology, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia, Brazil.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences,
Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Clea Japan Inc., Gifu, Japan.
(6)Department of Health Sciences, Saitama Prefectural University, Saitama, Japan.
(7)Gerodontology and Oral Rehabilitation, Graduate School of Medical and Dental
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.

With rapid aging of the world's population, the demand for research, for a better
understanding of aging and aging-related disorders, is increasing. Ideally, such 
research should be conducted on human subjects. However, due to ethical
considerations, animals such as rodents and monkeys are used as alternatives.
Among these alternative models, non-human primates are preferred because of their
similarities with humans. The small South American common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) may offer several advantages over other non-human primates in terms of
its smaller size, shorter life-span, and dental anatomy identical to humans. The 
purpose of this study was to determine the viability of using the marmoset as a
human oral disease model. We collected saliva samples from eight marmosets and
eight human subjects. Prokaryotic DNA was extracted from the saliva samples, and 
16S bacterial rRNA gene sequencing was performed on each of the samples. Our
results indicated that the types of oral microbiomes detected among human and
marmoset samples were nearly indistinguishable. In contrast, the oral microbiomes
of our human and marmoset subjects were distinctly different from those reported 
for rats and dogs, which are currently popular research animals. The oral
microbiomes of marmosets showed greater diversity than those of humans. However, 
the oral microbiota of marmosets exhibited less variation than those of humans,
which may be attributed to the fact that the marmoset subjects were kept in a
controlled environment with identical lifestyles. The characteristics of its oral
microbiota, combined with other technical advantages, suggest that the marmoset
may provide the best animal model thus far for the study of oral health. This
study characterized the oral microbes of the marmoset, thereby providing
information to support future application of the marmoset as a model for
age-related oral disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0207560 
PMCID: PMC6366748
PMID: 30730898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The following authors are affiliated with CLEA
Japan, Inc.: KK and KF. The commercial affiliation with CLEA Japan, Inc. does not
alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.

