

558. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2019 Feb 19;116(8):3239-3244. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1816653116. Epub 2019 Feb 4.

Local homogeneity of tonotopic organization in the primary auditory cortex of
marmosets.

Zeng HH(1)(2), Huang JF(1)(2), Chen M(1), Wen YQ(1), Shen ZM(3), Poo MM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, Key
Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, People's
Republic of China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, People's Republic
of China.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, Key
Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, People's
Republic of China; zmshen@ion.ac.cn mpoo@ion.ac.cn.

Marmoset has emerged as a useful nonhuman primate species for studying brain
structure and function. Previous studies on the mouse primary auditory cortex
(A1) showed that neurons with preferential frequency-tuning responses are mixed
within local cortical regions, despite a large-scale tonotopic organization. Here
we found that frequency-tuning properties of marmoset A1 neurons are highly
uniform within local cortical regions. We first defined the tonotopic map of A1
using intrinsic optical imaging and then used in vivo two-photon calcium imaging 
of large neuronal populations to examine the tonotopic preference at the
single-cell level. We found that tuning preferences of layer 2/3 neurons were
highly homogeneous over hundreds of micrometers in both horizontal and vertical
directions. Thus, marmoset A1 neurons are distributed in a tonotopic manner at
both macro- and microscopic levels. Such organization is likely to be important
for the organization of auditory circuits in the primate brain.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1816653116 
PMCID: PMC6386663
PMID: 30718428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


559. J Neurosci. 2019 Apr 17;39(16):3094-3107. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2451-18.2018.
Epub 2019 Feb 4.

Glutamate Within the Marmoset Anterior Hippocampus Interacts with Area 25 to
Regulate the Behavioral and Cardiovascular Correlates of High-Trait Anxiety.

Zeredo JL(1)(2), Quah SKL(2), Wallis CU(2), Alexander L(2), Cockcroft GJ(2),
Santangelo AM(2), Xia J(3), Shiba Y(2), Dalley JW(3)(4), Cardinal RN(4)(5),
Roberts AC(2), Clarke HF(6).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Health Science and Technology, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia, Brazil.
(2)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 3EB, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, and.
(5)Liaison Psychiatry Service, Cambridge and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust,
Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridg, CB2 OQQ, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom, hfc23@cam.ac.uk.

High-trait anxiety is a risk factor for the development of affective disorders
and has been associated with decreased cardiovascular and behavioral responsivity
to acute stressors in humans that may increase the risk of developing
cardiovascular disease. Although human neuroimaging studies of high-trait anxiety
reveals dysregulation in primate cingulate areas 25 and 32 and the anterior
hippocampus (aHipp) and rodent studies reveal the importance of aHipp
glutamatergic hypofunction, the causal involvement of aHipp glutamate and its
interaction with these areas in the primate brain is unknown. Accordingly, we
correlated marmoset trait anxiety scores to their postmortem aHipp glutamate
levels and showed that low glutamate in the right aHipp is associated with
high-trait anxiety in marmosets. Moreover, pharmacologically increasing aHipp
glutamate reduced anxiety levels in highly anxious marmosets in two
uncertainty-based tests of anxiety: exposure to a human intruder with uncertain
intent and unpredictable loud noise. In the human intruder test, increasing aHipp
glutamate decreased anxiety by increasing approach to the intruder. In the
unpredictable threat test, animals showed blunted behavioral and cardiovascular
responsivity after control infusions, which was normalized by increasing aHipp
glutamate. However, this aHipp-mediated anxiolytic effect was blocked by
simultaneous pharmacological inactivation of area 25, but not area 32, areas
which when inactivated independently reduced and had no effect on anxiety,
respectively. These findings provide causal evidence in male and female primates 
that aHipp glutamatergic hypofunction and its regulation by area 25 contribute to
the behavioral and cardiovascular symptoms of endogenous high-trait
anxiety.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT High-trait anxiety predisposes sufferers to the
development of anxiety and depression. Although neuroimaging of these disorders
and rodent modeling implicate dysregulation in hippocampal glutamate and the
subgenual/perigenual cingulate cortices (areas 25/32), the causal involvement of 
these structures in endogenous high-trait anxiety and their interaction are
unknown. Here, we demonstrate that increased trait anxiety in marmoset monkeys
correlates with reduced hippocampal glutamate and that increasing hippocampal
glutamate release in high-trait-anxious monkeys normalizes the aberrant
behavioral and cardiovascular responsivity to potential threats. This
normalization was blocked by simultaneous inactivation of area 25, but not area
32. These findings provide casual evidence in primates that hippocampal
glutamatergic hypofunction regulates endogenous high-trait anxiety and the
hippocampal-area 25 circuit is a potential therapeutic target.

Copyright Â© 2019 Zeredo et al.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2451-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6468106
PMID: 30718320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interests.

