

566. Antiviral Res. 2019 Mar;163:70-74. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2019.01.016. Epub
2019 Jan 24.

Prophylactic efficacy of a human monoclonal antibody against MERS-CoV in the
common marmoset.

de Wit E(1), Feldmann F(2), Horne E(1), Okumura A(3), Cameroni E(4), Haddock
E(1), Saturday G(2), Scott D(2), Gopal R(5), Zambon M(5), Corti D(4), Feldmann
H(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA.
(2)Rocky Mountain Veterinary Branch, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA.
(3)Center for Infection and Immunity, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia
University, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Humabs BioMed SA, A Subsidiary of Vir Biotechnology, 6500, Bellinzona,
Switzerland.
(5)National Infection Service, Public Health England (PHE), London, NW9 5EQ,
United Kingdom.
(6)Laboratory of Virology, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA. Electronic address:
feldmannh@niaid.nih.gov.

Effective antiviral treatments for MERS-CoV are urgently needed. LCA60 is a
MERS-CoV-neutralizing monoclonal antibody isolated from a convalescent MERS
patient. Previously, it was shown that treatment with LCA60 resulted in reduced
disease and virus titers in mouse models of MERS-CoV infection. Here, we tested
the prophylactic efficacy of LCA60 in the common marmoset model of MERS-CoV
infection. Intravenous administration of LCA60 one day before virus challenge
resulted in high levels of MERS-CoV-neutralizing activity in circulating blood.
Clinically, there was a moderate benefit of treatment with LCA60 including
reduced respiratory involvement. Although viral lung loads were not reduced in
LCA60-treated animals as compared to controls, there were fewer pathological
changes in the lungs. Thus, prophylactic LCA60 treatment could be implemented to 
reduce disease burden in contacts of confirmed MERS-CoV patients.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2019.01.016 
PMCID: PMC7113761
PMID: 30684561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Comp Neurol. 2019 May 15;527(9):1495-1507. doi: 10.1002/cne.24639. Epub 2019
Feb 11.

Prehensile kinematics of the marmoset monkey: Implications for the evolution of
visually-guided behaviors.

Fox DM(1), Mundinano IC(1), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Throughout the primate lineage, there is a wide diversity of prehensile capacity 
that is thought to stem from individual species foraging patterns. While many
studies have explored primates with precise hand grips, such as higher apes, few 
have considered primates that lack opposition movements. The New World marmoset
monkey occupies an intriguing niche, displaying adept control of their hand
movements yet their absence of opposable digits results in relatively imprecise
grasping actions when compared with those observed in Old World monkeys, apes,
and humans. The marmoset monkey offers a unique composition of ancestral primate 
corticospinal organization combined with skilled hand use to explore the
evolution and development of visually-guided actions. In this study, four adult
marmosets were trained to perform a series of visually-guided tasks, designed to 
assess their control over locating and retrieving objects of differing
dimensions. Two of these animals received a neonatal lesion of the inferior
pulvinar (unilateral), a thalamic nucleus previously demonstrated to be involved 
in visuomotor development. The kinematics of their reaching and grasping patterns
were recorded for offline analysis. Predictive modeling revealed that maximum
grip aperture, time to reach peak velocity and hand use were reliable predictors 
of distinguishing between cohorts. A consistent feature observed across all tasks
was that they do not precisely scale their grip according to the dimensions of
the target object which may be attributed to their lack of independent digit
control. Therefore, the marmoset monkey represents a previously understudied
position in the evolution of primate reach and grasp behavior.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24639 
PMID: 30680739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

