

575. Sci Rep. 2019 Jan 17;9(1):159. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-36477-y.

High expression of acidic chitinase and chitin digestibility in the stomach of
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), an insectivorous nonhuman primate.

Tabata E(1)(2), Kashimura A(1), Uehara M(1), Wakita S(1), Sakaguchi M(1),
Sugahara Y(1), Yurimoto T(3), Sasaki E(3), Matoska V(4), Bauer PO(4)(5), Oyama
F(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Life Science, Kogakuin University, Hachioji,
Tokyo, 192-0015, Japan.
(2)Research Fellow of Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (DC1),
Koujimachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 102-0083, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Tonomachi, Kawasaki, Kanagawa,
210-0821, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Molecular Diagnostics, Department of Clinical Biochemistry,
Hematology and Immunology, Homolka Hospital, Roentgenova 37/2, Prague, 150 00,
Czech Republic.
(5)Bioinova Ltd., Videnska 1083, Prague, 142 20, Czech Republic.
(6)Department of Chemistry and Life Science, Kogakuin University, Hachioji,
Tokyo, 192-0015, Japan. f-oyama@cc.kogakuin.ac.jp.

Chitin is a polymer of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) and a main constituent of 
insects' exoskeleton. Insects are rich in protein with high energy conversion
efficiency. Recently, we have reported that acidic chitinases (Chia) act as
digestive enzymes in mouse, pig and chicken (omnivorous) but not in dog
(carnivorous) and bovine (herbivorous), indicating that feeding behavior affects 
Chia expression levels, and determines chitin digestibility in the particular
animals. Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) belongs to New World monkey family 
and provides a potential bridge between mouse models and human diseases. Common
marmoset is an insectivorous nonhuman primate with unknown expression levels and 
enzymatic functions of the Chia homologue, CHIA. Here, we report that common
marmoset highly expresses pepsin-, trypsin- and chymotrypsin-resistant CHIA in
the stomach. We show that CHIA is most active at pH 2.0 and degrades chitin and
mealworm shells into GlcNAc dimers under gastrointestinal conditions. Although
common marmoset and crab-eating monkey (Old World monkey) have two CHIA genes in 
their genomes, they primarily express one gene in the stomach. Thus, this study
is the first to investigate expression levels and enzymatic functions of CHIA in 
a New World primate, contributing to the understanding of dietary adaptation and 
digestion in this taxon.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-36477-y 
PMCID: PMC6336882
PMID: 30655565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. J Neurosci. 2019 Mar 6;39(10):1855-1866. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2703-18.2019.
Epub 2019 Jan 16.

Alpha Oscillations Modulate Preparatory Activity in Marmoset Area 8Ad.

Johnston K(1), Ma L(1), Schaeffer L(2), Everling S(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario N6A 3K7, Canada, and.
(2)Robarts Research Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario
N6A 5B7, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario N6A 3K7, Canada, and severlin@uwo.ca.

Cognitive control often requires suppression of prepotent stimulus-driven
responses in favor of less potent alternatives. Suppression of prepotent saccades
has been shown to require proactive inhibition in the frontoparietal saccade
network. Electrophysiological evidence in macaque monkeys has revealed neural
correlates of such inhibition in this network; however, the interlaminar
instantiation of inhibitory processes remains poorly understood because these
areas lie deep within sulci in macaques, rendering them inaccessible to laminar
recordings. Here, we addressed this gap by exploiting the mostly lissencephalic
cortex of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We inserted linear electrode 
arrays into areas 8Ad-the putative marmoset frontal eye field-and the lateral
intraparietal area of two male marmosets and recorded neural activity during
performance of a task comprised of alternating blocks of trials requiring a
saccade either toward a large, high-luminance stimulus or the inhibition of this 
prepotent response in favor of a saccade toward a small, low-luminance stimulus. 
We observed prominent task-dependent activity in both alpha/gamma bands of the
LFP and discharge rates of single neurons in area 8Ad during a prestimulus task
epoch in which the animals had been instructed which of these two tasks to
perform but before peripheral stimulus onset. These data are consistent with a
model in which rhythmic alpha-band activity in deeper layers inhibits spiking in 
upper layers to support proactive inhibitory saccade control.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT Failures to inhibit automatic saccadic responses are a hallmark of many
neuropsychiatric disorders, but how this process is implemented across the
cortical layers in the frontoparietal saccade network remains unknown because
many of the areas are inaccessible to laminar recordings in macaques. Here, we
investigated laminar neural activity in marmoset monkeys, which have a smooth
cortex. Monkeys were required either to generate or inhibit a prepotent saccade
response. In area 8Ad, the putative frontal eye field in marmosets, rhythmic
alpha-band activity (9-14 Hz) was higher in deeper layers and spiking activity
was lower in upper layers when the animals were instructed to suppress a saccade 
toward a peripheral stimulus. Reduced alpha power during task preparation may be 
the underlying common neural basis of a saccade suppression deficit.

Copyright Â© 2019 the authors 0270-6474/19/391855-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2703-18.2019 
PMCID: PMC6407288
PMID: 30651331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

