

576. J Neurosci. 2019 Mar 6;39(10):1855-1866. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2703-18.2019.
Epub 2019 Jan 16.

Alpha Oscillations Modulate Preparatory Activity in Marmoset Area 8Ad.

Johnston K(1), Ma L(1), Schaeffer L(2), Everling S(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario N6A 3K7, Canada, and.
(2)Robarts Research Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario
N6A 5B7, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario N6A 3K7, Canada, and severlin@uwo.ca.

Cognitive control often requires suppression of prepotent stimulus-driven
responses in favor of less potent alternatives. Suppression of prepotent saccades
has been shown to require proactive inhibition in the frontoparietal saccade
network. Electrophysiological evidence in macaque monkeys has revealed neural
correlates of such inhibition in this network; however, the interlaminar
instantiation of inhibitory processes remains poorly understood because these
areas lie deep within sulci in macaques, rendering them inaccessible to laminar
recordings. Here, we addressed this gap by exploiting the mostly lissencephalic
cortex of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We inserted linear electrode 
arrays into areas 8Ad-the putative marmoset frontal eye field-and the lateral
intraparietal area of two male marmosets and recorded neural activity during
performance of a task comprised of alternating blocks of trials requiring a
saccade either toward a large, high-luminance stimulus or the inhibition of this 
prepotent response in favor of a saccade toward a small, low-luminance stimulus. 
We observed prominent task-dependent activity in both alpha/gamma bands of the
LFP and discharge rates of single neurons in area 8Ad during a prestimulus task
epoch in which the animals had been instructed which of these two tasks to
perform but before peripheral stimulus onset. These data are consistent with a
model in which rhythmic alpha-band activity in deeper layers inhibits spiking in 
upper layers to support proactive inhibitory saccade control.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT Failures to inhibit automatic saccadic responses are a hallmark of many
neuropsychiatric disorders, but how this process is implemented across the
cortical layers in the frontoparietal saccade network remains unknown because
many of the areas are inaccessible to laminar recordings in macaques. Here, we
investigated laminar neural activity in marmoset monkeys, which have a smooth
cortex. Monkeys were required either to generate or inhibit a prepotent saccade
response. In area 8Ad, the putative frontal eye field in marmosets, rhythmic
alpha-band activity (9-14 Hz) was higher in deeper layers and spiking activity
was lower in upper layers when the animals were instructed to suppress a saccade 
toward a peripheral stimulus. Reduced alpha power during task preparation may be 
the underlying common neural basis of a saccade suppression deficit.

Copyright Â© 2019 the authors 0270-6474/19/391855-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2703-18.2019 
PMCID: PMC6407288
PMID: 30651331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2019;153(1):28-34. doi: 10.1254/fpj.153.28.

[Translational behavioral research using common marmosets in the psychiatric
field].

[Article in Japanese]

Enomoto T(1), Ikeda K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Higher Brain Function Research, Drug Research Division, Sumitomo Dainippon
Pharma Co., Ltd.

The drug discovery activities for novel compounds with the superior efficacies to
current drugs have been largely unsuccessful in the psychiatric field. One of the
main reasons is the lack of appropriate behavioral assays and animal models for
psychiatric disorders. Since the prefrontal cortex has great roles in their
pathophysiology, non-human primate common marmosets with the well-developed
prefrontal cortex would be useful as experimental animals in the future
translational research. To measure objectively and quantitatively the psychiatric
symptoms like motivational deficits, negative affective bias and cognitive
impairments in patients with schizophrenia or major depressive disorder, the
clinical laboratory tasks have been developed. The development of marmoset
behavioral paradigms, which may correspond to the clinical laboratory tasks, have
been progressed for the translational research. On the other hand, there are
still limitations to develop the marmoset models resembling the pathophysiology
of psychiatric disorders. We review the current state and future perspective of
translational behavioral research using marmosets.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.153.28 
PMID: 30643089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

