

578. eNeuro. 2018 Jan 9;5(6). pii: ENEURO.0336-18.2018. doi:
10.1523/ENEURO.0336-18.2018. eCollection 2018 Nov-Dec.

Neuronal Correlations in MT and MST Impair Population Decoding of Opposite
Directions of Random Dot Motion.

Chaplin TA(1)(2)(3), Hagan MA(1)(2), Allitt BJ(1), Lui LL(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of
Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University
Node, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(3)Sainsbury Wellcome Centre for Neural Circuits and Behaviour, University
College London, London W1T 4JG, United Kingdom.

The study of neuronal responses to random-dot motion patterns has provided some
of the most valuable insights into how the activity of neurons is related to
perception. In the opposite directions of motion paradigm, the motion signal
strength is decreased by manipulating the coherence of random dot patterns to
examine how well the activity of single neurons represents the direction of
motion. To extend this paradigm to populations of neurons, studies have used
modelling based on data from pairs of neurons, but several important questions
require further investigation with larger neuronal datasets. We recorded neuronal
populations in the middle temporal (MT) and medial superior temporal (MST) areas 
of anaesthetized marmosets with electrode arrays, while varying the coherence of 
random dot patterns in two opposite directions of motion (left and right). Using 
the spike rates of simultaneously recorded neurons, we decoded the direction of
motion at each level of coherence with linear classifiers. We found that the
presence of correlations had a detrimental effect to decoding performance, but
that learning the correlation structure produced better decoding performance
compared to decoders that ignored the correlation structure. We also found that
reducing motion coherence increased neuronal correlations, but decoders did not
need to be optimized for each coherence level. Finally, we showed that decoder
weights depend of left-right selectivity at 100% coherence, rather than the
preferred direction. These results have implications for understanding how the
information encoded by populations of neurons is affected by correlations in
spiking activity.

DOI: 10.1523/ENEURO.0336-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6327941
PMID: 30637327  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Primates. 2019 Mar;60(2):119-123. doi: 10.1007/s10329-018-00713-w. Epub 2019 Jan 
12.

Pulmonary actinomycosis in a free-living black-tufted marmoset (Callithrix
penicillata).

Sousa DER(1), Wilson TM(1), Machado M(1), Pereira AABG(1), Costa GRT(2), Dutra
V(3), Castro MB(4).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
(2)Environmental Health Surveillance Directorate of the Federal District (DIVAL),
SAAN-Estrada do Contorno do Bosque, lote 04, Brasília, DF, 70790-060, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Veterinary Molecular Biology, Federal University of Mato Grosso,
Veterinary Hospital, Av. Fernando Corrêa da Costa 2367, Boa Esperança, Cuiabá,
MT, 78060-900, Brazil.
(4)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
mbcastro@unb.br.

Actinomycosis is a very rare infection in wild animals with a few reports in
captive non-human primates. Herein we report a case of pulmonary actinomycosis in
a free-living black-tufted marmoset in the urban area of the Federal District,
Brazil. The animal presented severe dyspnea and died in the garden of a
residence. At necropsy, the left-pulmonary lobes showed multiple nodules filled
with purulent content. A myriad of beaded, branching, filamentous Gram-positive
and modified Ziehl-Neelsen-negative bacilli arranged in aggregates or star-like
colonies, surrounded by macrophages, neutrophils, and Splendori-Hoepli phenomenon
were observed in histological sections of the lungs. According to the
pathological findings and characteristic morphotintorial pattern of the
infectious agent, pulmonary actinomycosis was diagnosed. Until now, fatal
pulmonary actinomycosis had never been reported in free-living Simiiformes.
Knowledge about the diseases that affect commensal free-range simians in urban
areas forms the basis for actions aimed at conservation of the species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-018-00713-w 
PMID: 30635747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

