

582. Xenobiotica. 2019 Nov;49(11):1323-1331. doi: 10.1080/00498254.2018.1564401. Epub 
2019 Jun 14.

Regioselective hydroxylation of an antiarrhythmic drug, propafenone, mediated by 
rat liver cytochrome P450 2D2 differs from that catalyzed by human P450 2D6.

Uehara S(1), Murayama N(2), Yamazaki H(2), Suemizu H(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Central Institute for Experimental Animals , Kawasaki , Japan.
(2)b Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University , Machida , Japan.

1. Propafenone, an antiarrhythmic drug, is a typical human cytochrome P450 (P450)
2D6 substrate used in preclinical studies. Here, propafenone oxidation by
mammalian liver microsomes was investigated in vitro. 2. Liver microsomes from
humans and marmosets preferentially mediated propafenone 5-hydroxylation,
minipig, rat and mouse livers primarily mediated 4'-hydroxylation, but cynomolgus
monkey and dog liver microsomes differently mediated N-despropylation. 3.
Quinine, ketoconazole or anti-P450 2D antibodies suppressed propafenone
4'/5-hydroxylation in human and rat liver microsomes. Pretreatments with
Î²-naphthoflavone or dexamethasone increased N-despropylation in rat livers. 4.
Recombinant rat P450 2D2 efficiently catalysed propafenone 4'-hydroxylation in a 
substrate inhibition manner, comparable to rat liver microsomes, while human P450
2D6 displayed propafenone 5-hydroxylation. Human and rat P450 1A, 2C and 3A
enzymes mediated propafenone N-despropylation with high capacities. 5. Carbon-4' 
of propafenone docked favourably into the active site of P450 2D2 based on an in 
silico model; in contrast, carbon-5 of propafenone docked into human P450 2D6. 6.
These results suggest that the major roles of individual P450 2D enzymes in
regioselective hydroxylations of propafenone differ between human and rat livers,
while the minor roles of P450 1A, 2C and 3A enzymes for propafenone
N-despropylation are similar in livers of both species.

DOI: 10.1080/00498254.2018.1564401 
PMID: 30596462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Nutr Healthy Aging. 2019;5(2):97-109. doi: 10.3233/nha-180046. Epub 2019 Sep 24.

Aging research using the common marmoset: Focus on aging interventions.

Ross CN(1)(2), Salmon AB(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University San Antonio, San
Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)The Sam and Ann Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies and The
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio TX, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(4)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans Health
Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Traditional animal models have been used to make seminal discoveries in
biomedical research including a better understanding of the biology of the aging 
process. However, translation of these findings from laboratory to clinical
populations has likely been hindered due to fundamental biological and
physiological differences between common laboratory animals and humans. Non-human
primates (NHP) may serve as an effective bridge towards translation, and
short-lived NHP like the common marmoset offer many advantages as models for
aging research. Here, we address these advantages and discuss what is currently
understood about the changes in physiology and pathology that occur with age in
the marmoset. In addition, we discuss how aging research might best utilize this 
model resource, and outline an ongoing study to address whether pharmaceutical
intervention can slow aging in the marmoset. With this manuscript, we clarify how
common marmosets might assist researchers in geroscience as a potential model for
pre-clinical translation.

DOI: 10.3233/nha-180046 
PMCID: PMC8018684
PMID: 33817407 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors have no conflict
of interest to report.

