

584. J Neurosci. 2019 Jan 30;39(5):918-928. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0353-18.2018. Epub 
2018 Dec 26.

Adverse Effects of Aromatase Inhibition on the Brain and Behavior in a Nonhuman
Primate.

Gervais NJ(1), Remage-Healey L(2), Starrett JR(2), Pollak DJ(2), Mong JA(3),
Lacreuse A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences and Center for Neuroendocrine
Studies, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003 and
nicole.gervais@utoronto.ca.
(2)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences and Center for Neuroendocrine
Studies, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003 and.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21201.

Breast cancer patients using aromatase inhibitors (AIs) as an adjuvant therapy
often report side effects, including hot flashes, mood changes, and cognitive
impairment. Despite long-term use in humans, little is known about the effects of
continuous AI administration on the brain and cognition. We used a primate model 
of human cognitive aging, the common marmoset, to examine the effects of a 4-week
daily administration of the AI letrozole (20 μg, p.o.) on cognition, anxiety,
thermoregulation, brain estrogen content, and hippocampal pyramidal cell
physiology. Letrozole treatment was administered to both male and female
marmosets and reduced peripheral levels of estradiol (E2), but unexpectedly
increased E2 levels in the hippocampus. Spatial working memory and intrinsic
excitability of hippocampal neurons were negatively affected by the treatment
possibly due to increased hippocampal E2. While no changes in hypothalamic E2
were observed, thermoregulation was disrupted by letrozole in females only,
indicating some impact on hypothalamic activity. These findings suggest adverse
effects of AIs on the primate brain and call for new therapies that effectively
prevent breast cancer recurrence while minimizing side effects that further
compromise quality of life.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Aromatase inhibitors (AIs) are 
used as an adjuvant therapy for estrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer and are 
associated with side effects, including hot flashes, depression/anxiety, and
memory deficits severe enough for many women to discontinue this life-saving
treatment. AIs are also used by men, yet sex differences in the reported side
effects have not been systematically studied. We show that AI-treated male and
female marmosets exhibit behavioral changes consistent with these CNS symptoms,
as well as elevated hippocampal estradiol and compromised hippocampal physiology.
These findings illustrate the need for (1) a greater understanding of the precise
mechanisms by which AIs impact brain function and (2) the development of new
treatment approaches for breast cancer patients that minimize adverse effects on 
the brain.

Copyright © 2019 the authors 0270-6474/19/390918-11$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0353-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6382974
PMID: 30587540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22944. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22944. Epub 2018 Dec 26.

The metabolome as a biomarker of mortality risk in the common marmoset.

Hoffman JM(1), Ross C(2), Tran V(3)(4), Promislow DEL(5)(6), Tardif S(7), Jones
DP(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama.
(2)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas.
(3)Division of Pulmonary Allergy and Critical Care, Department of Medicine, Emory
University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(4)Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Emory University,
Atlanta, Georgia.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(6)Department of Biology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(7)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.

Recently, the common marmoset has been proposed as a non-human primate model of
aging. Their short lifespan coupled with pathologies that are similar to humans
make them an ideal model to understand the genetic, metabolic, and environmental 
factors that influence aging and longevity. However, many of the underlying
physiological changes that occur with age in the marmoset are unknown. Here, we
attempt to determine if individual metabolites are predictive of future death and
to recapitulate past metabolomic results after a change in environment (move
across the country) was imposed on a colony of marmosets. We first determined
that low levels of tryptophan metabolism metabolites were associated with risk of
death in a 2-year follow-up in the animals, suggesting these metabolites may be
used as future biomarkers of mortality. We also discovered that betaine
metabolism and methionine metabolism are associated with aging regardless of
environment for the animals, or of metabolomic assay technique. These two
metabolic pathways are therefore of particular interest to examine as future
targets for health and lifespan extending interventions. Many of the pathways
associated with age in our first study of marmoset metabolomics were not found to
have significant age effects in our second study, suggesting more work is needed 
to understand the reproducibility of large scale metabolomic studies in mammalian
models. Overall, we were able to show that while several metabolomics markers
show promise in understanding health and lifespan relationships with aging, it is
possible that choice of technique for assay and reproducibility in these types of
studies are still issues that need to be examined further.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22944 
PMCID: PMC6599709
PMID: 30585652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

