

586. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2020 Feb;303(2):265-281. doi: 10.1002/ar.24048. Epub 2019 Jan
20.

Dental Signatures for Exudativory in Living Primates, with Comparisons to Other
Gouging Mammals.

Burrows AM(1)(2), Nash LT(3), Hartstone-Rose A(4), Silcox MT(5), López-Torres
S(6), Selig KR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.
(3)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
Arizona.
(4)College of Sciences, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina.
(5)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto Scarborough, Toronto,
Canada.
(6)Department of Evolutionary Paleobiology, Roman Kozłowski Institute of
Paleobiology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.

Exudativory, the consumption of gums, is an obligate or a facultative dietary
niche for some primates and marsupials. Exudativory has been cited as a dietary
niche that may have been present in early primates, so finding a dental signature
for exudativory is highly desirable. The present study combines exudativorous
lorisoids (galagos and lorises) into one sample to compare to closely related,
non-exudativorous lorisoids to search for a consistent dental signature of
exudativory. Linear measurements were taken from the toothcomb, P2 , M3 , upper
canine, and P2 from skulls of 295 adult galagids and lorisids. Also, differential
distribution of enamel on the anterior teeth was qualitatively investigated as a 
dental signature for gouging (a behavior that facilitates some exudativory) by
micro-CT scanning one specimen each from two gougers, Nycticebus coucang and
Callithrix jacchus, and two non-gougers, Perodicticus potto, and Saguinus
fuscicollis. Non-primate gouging mammals, the vampire bat Desmodus rotundus and
the sugar glider Petaurus breviceps, were compared to non-gouging relatives.
Statistical analysis revealed that exudativorous galagos and lorises had
significantly (P < 0.05) reduced M3 relative to non-exudativorous galagos and
lorises. While the sample sizes for assessing enamel thickness were small,
preliminary results show that gouging primates and non-primate mammals have
reduced lingual enamel thickness on the anterior dentition compared to
non-gouging relatives. We suggest that reduction of mastication, and, therefore, 
M3 dimensions are a likely dental signature for exudativory in Primates. While
broader samples are needed to statistically confirm, differential distribution of
enamel in the anterior dentition may also be a signature of exudativory. Anat
Rec, 2019. © 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Anat Rec, 303:265-281, 2020. © 2018
American Association for Anatomy.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.24048 
PMID: 30548805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Dec 26;115(52):E12127. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1818755115. Epub 2018 Dec 11.

Reply to Zahednasab et al.: HHV-6 and marmoset EAE.

Leibovitch EC(1), Jacobson S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute for Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.
(2)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute for Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892
jacobsons@ninds.nih.gov.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):11292-11297.
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Dec 26;115(52):E12126.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1818755115 
PMCID: PMC6310818
PMID: 30538192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

