

588. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2019 Jan 1;58(1):16-20. doi:
10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-18-000046. Epub 2018 Dec 11.

Daily Water Intake by Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and Recommendations
Regarding Fluid Regulation.

Winn CB(1), Issa EB(2), Curcillo CP(3), Townes CA(4), Burns MA(5), Patterson
MM(6).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Pfizer Worldwide Research and Development, Cambridge Massachusetts.
(2)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(3)University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.
(4)University of Illinois College of Veterinary Medicine, Urbana, Illinois.
(5)Division of Comparative Medicine.
(6)Division of Comparative Medicine;, Email: mmpatt@mit.edu.

The typical daily water intake of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in a
research setting has not been well characterized. Because these New World
primates are in demand as animal models for neurobehavioral experiments, which
can include the potential use of fluid regulation for training, veterinary and
research staff need to understand how marmosets keep hydrated under normal
circumstances. In the current study, we measured the water consumption of older
(age, 5 to 12 y; n = 11) and younger (age, 1 to 2 y; n = 11) marmosets every 3 h 
during the 12-h light phase in 2 different months (January and July). The overall
daily water intake (mean ± 1 SD) was 61.3 ± 20.4 mL/kg (range, 36.3 to 99.0
mL/kg); water intake by an individual marmoset or cohoused pair was fairly
consistent from day to day. Water intake did not change across the four 3-h
periods measured during the day, and minimal water was consumed overnight when
the room lights were off. In addition, daily water intake did not differ between 
the 2 mo of measurements. Older animals drank significantly more than the younger
group, and weight was directly correlated with water intake. Water intake was not
affected by body condition score or housing status. The variation in water
consumption among marmosets underscores the need for individualization of fluid
regulation guidelines.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-18-000046 
PMCID: PMC6351047
PMID: 30538006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. J Neurosci. 2019 Feb 6;39(6):1020-1029. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2595-18.2018. Epub
2018 Dec 10.

Intrinsic Functional Boundaries of Lateral Frontal Cortex in the Common Marmoset 
Monkey.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(1), Gati JS(1), Menon RS(1)(2), Everling S(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, and.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario N6A 5B7, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, and
severlin@uwo.ca.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate species
that has been recently targeted as a potentially powerful preclinical model of
human prefrontal cortex dysfunction. Although the structural boundaries of
frontal cortex were described in marmosets at the start of the 20th century
(Brodmann, 1909) and refined more recently (Paxinos et al., 2012), the broad
functional boundaries of marmoset frontal cortex have yet to be established. In
this study, we sought to functionally derive boundaries of the marmoset lateral
frontal cortex (LFC) using ultra-high field (9.4 T) resting-state functional
magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI). We collected RS-fMRI data in seven (four
females, three males) lightly anesthetized marmosets and used a data-driven
hierarchical clustering approach to derive subdivisions of the LFC based on
intrinsic functional connectivity. We then conducted seed-based analyses to
assess the functional connectivity between these clusters and the rest of the
brain. The results demonstrated seven distinct functional clusters within the
LFC. The functional connectivity patterns of these clusters with the rest of the 
brain were also found to be distinct and organized along a rostrocaudal gradient,
consonant with those found in humans and macaques. Overall, these results support
the view that marmosets are a promising preclinical modeling species for studying
LFC dysfunction related to neuropsychiatric or neurodegenerative human brain
diseases.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The common marmoset is a New World primate that
has garnered recent attention as a powerful complement to canonical Old World
primate (e.g., macaques) and rodent models (e.g., rats, mice) for preclinical
modeling of the human brain in healthy and diseased states. A critical step in
the development of marmosets for such models is to characterize functional
network topologies of frontal cortex in healthy, normally functioning marmosets, 
that is, how these circuitries are functionally divided and how those topologies 
compare to human circuitry. To our knowledge, this is the first study to
demonstrate functional boundaries of the lateral frontal cortex and the
corresponding network topologies in marmoset monkeys.

Copyright © 2019 the authors 0270-6474/19/391020-10$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2595-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6363921
PMID: 30530862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

