

599. Exp Brain Res. 2019 Feb;237(2):435-442. doi: 10.1007/s00221-018-5434-9. Epub 2018
Nov 15.

5-HT2A blockade for dyskinesia and psychosis in Parkinson's disease: is there a
limit to the efficacy of this approach? A study in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset and
a literature mini-review.

Kwan C(1)(2), Frouni I(1)(3), Bédard D(1), Nuara SG(4), Gourdon JC(4), Hamadjida 
A(1)(2), Huot P(5)(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St, BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(8)Department of Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(9)Division of Neurology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Virtually every patient affected by Parkinson's disease (PD) eventually requires 
treatment with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), which leads to
complications such as dyskinesia and psychosis. Whereas blockade of serotonin 2A 
(5-HT2A) receptors appears to be an effective way to reduce both dyskinesia and
psychosis, whether it has the potential to eliminate the two phenomena remains to
be determined. In a previous study, we showed that highly selective 5-HT2A
receptor blockade with EMD-281,014, at plasma levels comparable to those achieved
in the clinic, reduced dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs), in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmoset. Here, we
sought to determine whether further increasing the dose would result in greater
therapeutic benefit or if maximal effectiveness was achieved at lower doses. Six 
MPTP-lesioned marmosets with stable dyskinesia and PLBs were administered
EMD-281,014 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or vehicle in combination with L-DOPA and the
effect on dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonism was assessed. Administration of
EMD-281,014 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) in combination with L-DOPA resulted in a
significant reduction in the severity of dyskinesia, by up to 63%, 64% and 61%
(each P < 0.001), when compared to L-DOPA/vehicle. Similarly, the addition of
EMD-281,014 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) to L-DOPA also significantly decreased the
severity of PLBs, by up to 54%, 55% and 53% (each P < 0.001), when compared to
L-DOPA/vehicle. Our results suggest that there might be a ceiling to the
reduction of dyskinesia and psychosis that can be achieved through antagonism of 
5-HT2A receptors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-018-5434-9 
PMID: 30443669  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Front Neuroanat. 2018 Oct 30;12:89. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2018.00089. eCollection
2018.

Axonal Projections From the Middle Temporal Area in the Common Marmoset.

Abe H(1), Tani T(1), Mashiko H(1), Kitamura N(1), Hayami T(2), Watanabe S(2),
Sakai K(2), Suzuki W(2), Mizukami H(3), Watakabe A(4), Yamamori T(4), Ichinohe
N(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
Center for Brain Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Division of Genetic Therapeutics, Center for Molecular Medicine, Jichi Medical
University, Tochigi, Japan.
(4)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, Center for Brain
Science, RIKEN, Saitama, Japan.

Neural activity in the middle temporal (MT) area is modulated by the direction
and speed of motion of visual stimuli. The area is buried in a sulcus in the
macaque, but exposed to the cortical surface in the marmoset, making the marmoset
an ideal animal model for studying MT function. To better understand the details 
of the roles of this area in cognition, underlying anatomical connections need to
be clarified. Because most anatomical tracing studies in marmosets have used
retrograde tracers, the axonal projections remain uncharacterized. In order to
examine axonal projections from MT, we utilized adeno-associated viral (AAV)
tracers, which work as anterograde tracers by expressing either green or red
fluorescent protein in infected neurons. AAV tracers were injected into three
sites in MT based on retinotopy maps obtained via in vivo optical intrinsic
signal imaging. Brains were sectioned and divided into three series, one for
fluorescent image scanning and two for myelin and Nissl substance staining to
identify specific brain areas. Overall projection patterns were similar across
the injections. MT projected to occipital visual areas V1, V2, V3 (VLP) and V4
(VLA) and surrounding areas in the temporal cortex including MTC (V4T), MST, FST,
FSTv (PGa/IPa) and TE3. There were also projections to the dorsal visual pathway,
V3A (DA), V6 (DM) and V6A, the intraparietal areas AIP, LIP, MIP, frontal A4ab
and the prefrontal cortex, A8aV and A8C. There was a visuotopic relationship with
occipital visual areas. In a marmoset in which two tracer injections were made,
the projection targets did not overlap in A8aV and AIP, suggesting topographic
projections from different parts of MT. Most of these areas are known to send
projections back to MT, suggesting that they are reciprocally connected with it.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2018.00089 
PMCID: PMC6218423
PMID: 30425625 

