

604. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Jan 1;29(1):447-460. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhy276.

Selective Role of the Putamen in Serial Reversal Learning in the Marmoset.

Jackson SAW(1)(2), Horst NK(1)(2), Axelsson SFA(1)(2), Horiguchi N(1)(2),
Cockcroft GJ(2)(3), Robbins TW(1)(2), Roberts AC(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, 
UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Downing Street, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, UK.

Fronto-striatal circuitry involving the orbitofrontal cortex has been identified 
as mediating successful reversal of stimulus-outcome contingencies. The region of
the striatum that most contributes to reversal learning remains unclear, with
studies in primates implicating both caudate nucleus and putamen. We trained four
marmosets on a touchscreen-based serial reversal task and implanted each with
cannulae targeting both putamen and caudate bilaterally. This allowed reversible 
inactivation of the two areas within the same monkeys, but across separate
sessions, to directly investigate their respective contributions to reversal
performance. Behavioral sensitivity to the GABAA agonist muscimol varied across
subjects and between brain regions, so each marmoset received a range of doses.
Intermediate doses of intra-putamen muscimol selectively impaired reversal
performance, leaving the baseline discrimination phase unchanged. There was no
effect of low doses and high doses were generally disruptive. By contrast, low
doses of intra-caudate muscimol improved reversal performance, while high doses
impaired both reversal and baseline discrimination performance. These data
provide evidence for a specific role of the putamen in serial reversal learning, 
which may reflect the more habitual nature of repeated reversals using the same
stimulus pair.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhy276 
PMCID: PMC6294407
PMID: 30395188  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Neurobiol Aging. 2019 Feb;74:1-14. doi: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2018.10.003.
Epub 2018 Oct 11.

Key periods of cognitive decline in a nonhuman primate model of cognitive aging, 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Sadoun A(1), Rosito M(1), Fonta C(1), Girard P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse, UPS, Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition,
Toulouse, France; CerCo, CNRS UMR, 5549 Toulouse, France.
(2)Université de Toulouse, UPS, Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition,
Toulouse, France; CerCo, CNRS UMR, 5549 Toulouse, France; INSERM, Toulouse,
France. Electronic address: pascal.girard@cnrs.fr.

It is well established that human life expectancy increases considerably with an 
ever-growing number of people suffering from age-related cognitive decline and
degenerative brain diseases. This necessitates the development of animal models
to counteract or stop the progression of the decline early enough. Presently,
primate models are few, and many studies argue for the marmoset as an interesting
primate model presenting a short life span and being easily available in research
laboratories. In this article, we propose the marmoset as a valid model for
cognitive decline. Using a computer touch screen, we trained 35 marmosets from 2 
to 14 years of age to perform reversal learning and delayed-matching-to-position 
tasks. We found typical age-related cognitive deficits related to executive
functions and spatial working memory. Applying a recursive algorithm, we detected
2 critical periods from which deficits appear. Mainly, response strategy deficits
appear from age 4, whereas impairments in inhibitory control appear from age 7-8.
Furthermore, the presence of outliers, sometimes at an early age, suggests
pathological cognitive deficits that would require imaging exploration in
parallel to behavior.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2018.10.003 
PMID: 30391909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

