

605. Neurobiol Aging. 2019 Feb;74:1-14. doi: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2018.10.003.
Epub 2018 Oct 11.

Key periods of cognitive decline in a nonhuman primate model of cognitive aging, 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Sadoun A(1), Rosito M(1), Fonta C(1), Girard P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse, UPS, Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition,
Toulouse, France; CerCo, CNRS UMR, 5549 Toulouse, France.
(2)Université de Toulouse, UPS, Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition,
Toulouse, France; CerCo, CNRS UMR, 5549 Toulouse, France; INSERM, Toulouse,
France. Electronic address: pascal.girard@cnrs.fr.

It is well established that human life expectancy increases considerably with an 
ever-growing number of people suffering from age-related cognitive decline and
degenerative brain diseases. This necessitates the development of animal models
to counteract or stop the progression of the decline early enough. Presently,
primate models are few, and many studies argue for the marmoset as an interesting
primate model presenting a short life span and being easily available in research
laboratories. In this article, we propose the marmoset as a valid model for
cognitive decline. Using a computer touch screen, we trained 35 marmosets from 2 
to 14 years of age to perform reversal learning and delayed-matching-to-position 
tasks. We found typical age-related cognitive deficits related to executive
functions and spatial working memory. Applying a recursive algorithm, we detected
2 critical periods from which deficits appear. Mainly, response strategy deficits
appear from age 4, whereas impairments in inhibitory control appear from age 7-8.
Furthermore, the presence of outliers, sometimes at an early age, suggests
pathological cognitive deficits that would require imaging exploration in
parallel to behavior.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2018.10.003 
PMID: 30391909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Reproduction. 2019 Jan;157(1):101-109. doi: 10.1530/REP-18-0401.

Primordial germ cells do not migrate along nerve fibres in marmoset monkey and
mouse embryos.

Wolff E(1), Suplicki MM(1), Behr R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Leibniz
Institute for Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.

Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are the embryonic precursors of spermatozoa and
eggs. In mammals, PGCs arise early in embryonic development and migrate from
their tissue of specification over a significant distance to reach their
destinations, the genital ridges. However, the exact mechanism of translocation
is still debated. A study on human embryos demonstrated a very close spatial
association between migrating PGCs and developing peripheral nerves. Thus, it was
proposed that peripheral nerves act as guiding structures for migrating PGCs. The
goal of the present study is to test whether the association between nerves and
PGCs may be a human-specific finding or whether this represents a general
strategy to guide PGCs in mammals. Therefore, we investigated embryos of
different developmental stages from the mouse and a non-human primate, the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), covering the phase from PGC emergence to
their arrival in the gonadal ridge. Embryo sections were immunohistochemically
co-stained for tubulin beta-3 chain (TUBB3) to visualise neurons and
Octamer-binding protein 4 (OCT4 (POU5F1)) as marker for PGCs. The distance
between PGCs and the nearest detectable neuron was measured. We discovered that
in all embryos analysed of both species, the majority of PGCs (>94%) was found at
a minimum distance of 50 µm to the closest neuron and, more importantly, that the
PGCs had reached the gonads before any TUBB3 signal could be detected in the
vicinity of the gonads. In conclusion, our data indicate that PGC migration along
peripheral nerves is not a general mechanism in mammals.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-18-0401 
PMID: 30390611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

