

616. Microbiol Immunol. 2018 Nov;62(11):702-710. doi: 10.1111/1348-0421.12655.

Comparison of gut microbiota composition between laboratory-bred marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with chronic diarrhea and healthy animals using terminal
restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis.

Shigeno Y(1), Toyama M(1), Nakamura M(1), Niimi K(2), Takahashi E(2), Benno Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Benno Laboratory, RIKEN Baton Zone Program, RIKEN Cluster for Science
Technology and Innovation Hub, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Research Resources Division, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa,
Wako-shi, Saitama, Japan.

Chronic diarrhea in laboratory-bred marmosets poses a serious health problem
during experiments. Despite a growing demand for laboratory-bred experimental
marmosets, the mechanisms underlying the development of diarrhea and measures for
its treatment and prevention remain unclear. To explore the factors affecting
development of chronic diarrhea in laboratory-bred marmosets, the gut microbiota 
composition (GMC) of 58 laboratory-bred marmosets, including 19 animals with
chronic diarrhea, was analyzed using terminal restriction fragment length
polymorphism. We found that the GMCs in these animals cluster into two groups
that differ significantly in rate of chronic diarrhea (56.5% in one group,
Cluster 1, and 17.1% in Cluster 2). Additionally, a higher α-diversity and a
lower proportion of Bifidobacterium spp. according to quantitative PCR was found 
the animals in the Cluster 1 than in those in Cluster 2. Taken together, our
findings indicate that there is a relationship between GMC and development of
chronic diarrhea in laboratory-bred marmosets. This is the first study to
highlight the potential of assessing GMC in relation to development of chronic
diarrhea in laboratory-bred marmosets.

© 2018 The Societies and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1348-0421.12655 
PMID: 30350387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):11112-11114. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1816083115. Epub 2018 Oct 22.

Rapid assessment of natural visual motion integration across primate species.

Spering M(1), Chow HM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, International Collaboration on 
Repair Discoveries, Institute for Computing, Information and Cognitive Systems,
Djavad Mowafaghian Center for Brain Health, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada V5Z 1M9 mspering@mail.ubc.ca.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences, International Collaboration on 
Repair Discoveries, Institute for Computing, Information and Cognitive Systems,
Djavad Mowafaghian Center for Brain Health, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada V5Z 1M9.

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):E10486-E10494.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1816083115 
PMCID: PMC6217384
PMID: 30348805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

