

62. Sci Rep. 2021 Oct 12;11(1):20234. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-99656-4.

Efficient marmoset genome engineering by autologous embryo transfer and
CRISPR/Cas9 technology.

Abe Y(1), Nakao H(1), Goto M(1), Tamano M(1), Koebis M(1), Nakao K(2)(3), Aiba
A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Animal Research and Laboratory of Animal Resources, Center for
Disease Biology and Integrative Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan.
(2)Section of Animal Research and Laboratory of Animal Resources, Center for
Disease Biology and Integrative Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan.
k_nakao@iexas.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(3)Institute of Experimental Animal Sciences, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka 
University, 2-2 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan.
k_nakao@iexas.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.
(4)Section of Animal Research and Laboratory of Animal Resources, Center for
Disease Biology and Integrative Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-0033, Japan.
aiba@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Genetic engineering of non-human primates, which are most closely related to
humans, has been expected to generate ideal animal models for human genetic
diseases. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a non-human primate species
adequate for the production of genetically modified animals because of their
small body size and high reproductive capacity. Autologous embryo transfer (AET) 
is routinely utilized in assisted reproductive technologies for humans but not
for experimental animals. This study has developed a novel method for efficiently
producing mutant marmosets using AET and CRISPR/Cas9 systems. The embryos were
recovered from oviducts of naturally mated females, injected with Cas9/guide RNA,
and transferred into the oviducts of the donors. This AET method can reduce the
time for in vitro culture of embryos to less than 30 min. This method uses an
embryo donor as the recipient, thus reducing the number of animals and allowing
for "Reduction" in the 3R principles of humane experimental technique.
Furthermore, this method can utilize nulliparous females as well as parous
females. We applied our novel method and generated the 6 marmosets carrying
mutations in the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene using only 18 females
including 14 nulliparous females.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-99656-4 
PMCID: PMC8511084
PMID: 34642413  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2022 Jan 1;539:111488. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2021.111488. Epub 
2021 Oct 9.

Limited spermatogenic differentiation of testicular tissue from prepubertal
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in an in vitro organ culture system.

Sharma S(1), Klaverkamp RS(1), Wistuba J(1), Schlatt S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Albert-Schweitzer Campus 1, Building D11, 48149, Münster,
Germany.
(2)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Albert-Schweitzer Campus 1, Building D11, 48149, Münster,
Germany. Electronic address: stefan.schlatt@ukmuenster.de.

PURPOSE: of the research: To achieve male fertility preservation and restoration,
experimental strategies for in vitro germ cell differentiation are required. The 
effects of two different culture conditions on in vitro maintenance and
differentiation of non-human primate germ cells was studied. Three testes from
three 6-month-old marmosets were cultured using a gas-liquid interphase system
for 12 days. Testicular maturation in pre-culture control and samples cultured in
gonadotropin and serum supplemented and non-supplemented culture samples was
evaluated using Periodic Acid-Schiff (PAS) and immunohistochemical stainings.
PRINCIPLE RESULTS: Gonadotropins and serum-supplemented tissues demonstrate up to
meiotic differentiation (BOULE + Pachytene spermatocyte) and advanced
localization of germ cells (MAGEA4+). Moreover, complex (with gonadotropin and
marmoset monkey serum) conditions induced progression in somatic cell maturation 
with advanced seminiferous epithelial organization, maintenance of encapsulation 
of cultured fragments with peritubular-myoid cells, preservation of tubular
structural integrity and architecture.
MAJOR CONCLUSIONS: We report stimulation-dependent in vitro meiotic transition in
non-human primate testes. This model represents a novel ex vivo approach to
obtain crucial developmental progression.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2021.111488 
PMID: 34637880 

