

623. Sci Rep. 2018 Oct 18;8(1):15438. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-33758-4.

Tracking EBV-encoded RNAs (EBERs) from the nucleus to the excreted exosomes of
B-lymphocytes.

Ahmed W(1), Tariq S(2), Khan G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United Arab
Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
g_khan@uaeu.ac.ae.

Epstein-Barr virus-encoded RNAs (EBER1 and EBER2) are two highly abundant,
non-protein coding RNAs consistently expressed in all EBV infected cells, but
their function remains poorly understood. Conventional in situ hybridization
studies have indicated that these RNAs are present exclusively in the nucleus. We
have recently demonstrated that EBERs can be excreted from infected cells via
exosomes. However, the details of the steps involved in their excretion remain
unknown. In this study, we aimed to directly track the journey of EBERs from the 
nucleus to the excretory exosomes of EBV immortalized B-lymphocytes. Using a
combination of molecular and novel immuno-gold labelled electron microscopy (EM) 
based techniques, we demonstrate the presence of EBERs, not only in the nucleus, 
but also in the cytoplasm of EBV infected B cell lines. EBERs were also seen in
exosomes shed from infected cells along with the EBER binding protein La. Our
results show, for the first time, that at least a proportion of EBERs are
transported from the nucleus to the cytoplasm where they appear to be loaded into
multi-vesicular bodies for eventual excretion via exosomes.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-33758-4 
PMCID: PMC6193935
PMID: 30337610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2019 Apr;19(4):249-254. doi: 10.1089/vbz.2018.2348.
Epub 2018 Oct 18.

Antibodies and Molecular Detection of Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum in Samples
of Free-Ranging Marmosets (Primates: Callitrichidae: Callithrix spp.) in an Area 
of Canine Visceral Leishmaniasis in Southeastern Brazil.

Paiz LM(1), Motoie G(2), Richini-Pereira VB(3), Langoni H(4), Menozzi BD(4),
Tolezano JE(2), Donalisio MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University
of Campinas, Campinas, Brazil.
(2)2 Adolfo Lutz Institute, Center for Systemic Parasitic Diseases, São Paulo,
Brazil.
(3)3 Bauru II Center of Regional Laboratories, Adolfo Lutz Institute, Bauru,
Brazil.
(4)4 Department of Veterinary Hygiene and Public Health, School of Veterinary
Medicine and Animal Science, São Paulo State University, Botucatu, Brazil.

Leishmaniasis is a vector-borne parasitic protozoan infection that affects
mammals and involves a complex epidemiology. Although dogs are considered the
main reservoir in zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL), the possible presence of 
other mammalian species acting as reservoirs has been associated as a possible
cause of lack of success in the control of human VL in many endemic areas. The
knowledge about natural infections of some species is still scarce, such as
nonhuman primates (NHP), especially from the genus Callithrix (marmosets). We
investigated the infection by Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum, the agent of VL
in the Americas, in 26 marmosets captured monthly, from April 2014 to March 2015,
in an environmentally protected area (EPA) in Southeastern Brazil. The EPA has
undergone significant environmental changes and has a transmission focus of
canine VL since 2009. Serology was performed through the direct agglutination
test, which detected low antibody titers in seven marmosets (7/26; 26.9%, 95%
confidence interval 9.9-44.0), being five Callithrix penicillata
(black-tufted-ear marmoset) and two Callithrix jacchus (white-tufted-ear
marmoset). The presence of the DNA of Leishmania was investigated in blood and
skin samples by PCR and genetic sequencing. This is the first report of the
detection of L. (L.) infantum in the skin of a marmoset, which was verified in a 
sample from one C. penicillata. The results demonstrate the natural infection of 
marmosets by L. (L.) infantum and may suggest the participation of these animals 
as hosts in the parasite's transmission cycle in the EPA. However, more
comprehensive studies are needed to elucidate their role on the VL epidemiology
in this area and also in different endemic areas, especially because these NHP
are increasingly in contact with humans and domestic animals, particularly due to
environmental changes.

DOI: 10.1089/vbz.2018.2348 
PMID: 30335584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

