

624. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2019 Apr;19(4):249-254. doi: 10.1089/vbz.2018.2348.
Epub 2018 Oct 18.

Antibodies and Molecular Detection of Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum in Samples
of Free-Ranging Marmosets (Primates: Callitrichidae: Callithrix spp.) in an Area 
of Canine Visceral Leishmaniasis in Southeastern Brazil.

Paiz LM(1), Motoie G(2), Richini-Pereira VB(3), Langoni H(4), Menozzi BD(4),
Tolezano JE(2), Donalisio MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University
of Campinas, Campinas, Brazil.
(2)2 Adolfo Lutz Institute, Center for Systemic Parasitic Diseases, São Paulo,
Brazil.
(3)3 Bauru II Center of Regional Laboratories, Adolfo Lutz Institute, Bauru,
Brazil.
(4)4 Department of Veterinary Hygiene and Public Health, School of Veterinary
Medicine and Animal Science, São Paulo State University, Botucatu, Brazil.

Leishmaniasis is a vector-borne parasitic protozoan infection that affects
mammals and involves a complex epidemiology. Although dogs are considered the
main reservoir in zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL), the possible presence of 
other mammalian species acting as reservoirs has been associated as a possible
cause of lack of success in the control of human VL in many endemic areas. The
knowledge about natural infections of some species is still scarce, such as
nonhuman primates (NHP), especially from the genus Callithrix (marmosets). We
investigated the infection by Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum, the agent of VL
in the Americas, in 26 marmosets captured monthly, from April 2014 to March 2015,
in an environmentally protected area (EPA) in Southeastern Brazil. The EPA has
undergone significant environmental changes and has a transmission focus of
canine VL since 2009. Serology was performed through the direct agglutination
test, which detected low antibody titers in seven marmosets (7/26; 26.9%, 95%
confidence interval 9.9-44.0), being five Callithrix penicillata
(black-tufted-ear marmoset) and two Callithrix jacchus (white-tufted-ear
marmoset). The presence of the DNA of Leishmania was investigated in blood and
skin samples by PCR and genetic sequencing. This is the first report of the
detection of L. (L.) infantum in the skin of a marmoset, which was verified in a 
sample from one C. penicillata. The results demonstrate the natural infection of 
marmosets by L. (L.) infantum and may suggest the participation of these animals 
as hosts in the parasite's transmission cycle in the EPA. However, more
comprehensive studies are needed to elucidate their role on the VL epidemiology
in this area and also in different endemic areas, especially because these NHP
are increasingly in contact with humans and domestic animals, particularly due to
environmental changes.

DOI: 10.1089/vbz.2018.2348 
PMID: 30335584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. J Neurosci. 2018 Nov 28;38(48):10384-10398. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1679-18.2018. 
Epub 2018 Oct 16.

Receptive Field Properties of Koniocellular On/Off Neurons in the Lateral
Geniculate Nucleus of Marmoset Monkeys.

Eiber CD(1)(2)(3), Rahman AS(2), Pietersen ANJ(1)(2)(3), Zeater N(1)(2)(3),
Dreher B(2), Solomon SG(3)(4), Martin PR(5)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute.
(2)School of Medical Sciences.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2000, Australia, and.
(4)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, WC1P 0AH,
London, England.
(5)Save Sight Institute, prmartin@physiol.usyd.edu.au.

The koniocellular (K) layers of the primate dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus
house a variety of visual receptive field types, not all of which have been fully
characterized. Here we made single-cell recordings targeted to the K layers of
diurnal New World monkeys (marmosets). A subset of recorded cells was excited by 
both increments and decrements of light intensity (on/off-cells). Histological
reconstruction of the location of these cells confirmed that they are segregated 
to K layers; we therefore refer to these cells as K-on/off cells. The K-on/off
cells show high contrast sensitivity, strong bandpass spatial frequency tuning,
and their response magnitude is strongly reduced by stimuli larger than the
excitatory receptive field (silent suppressive surrounds). Stationary
counterphase gratings evoke unmodulated spike rate increases or frequency-doubled
responses in K-on/off cells; such responses are largely independent of grating
spatial phase. The K-on/off cells are not orientation or direction selective.
Some (but not all) properties of K-on/off cells are consistent with those of
local-edge-detector/impressed-by-contrast cells reported in studies of cat retina
and geniculate, and broad-thorny ganglion cells recorded in macaque monkey
retina. The receptive field properties of K-on/off cells and their preferential
location in the ventral K layers (K1 and K2) make them good candidates for the
direct projection from geniculate to extrastriate cortical area MT/V5. If so,
they could contribute to visual information processing in the dorsal ("where" or 
"action") visual stream.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT We characterize cells in an
evolutionary ancient part of the visual pathway in primates. The cells are
located in the lateral geniculate nucleus (the main visual afferent relay
nucleus), in regions called koniocellular layers that are known to project to
extrastriate visual areas as well as primary visual cortex. The cells show high
contrast sensitivity and rapid, transient responses to light onset and offset.
Their properties suggest they could contribute to visual processing in the dorsal
("where" or "action") visual stream.

Copyright © 2018 the authors 0270-6474/18/3810384-15$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1679-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6596204
PMID: 30327419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

