

625. J Neurosci. 2018 Nov 28;38(48):10384-10398. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1679-18.2018. 
Epub 2018 Oct 16.

Receptive Field Properties of Koniocellular On/Off Neurons in the Lateral
Geniculate Nucleus of Marmoset Monkeys.

Eiber CD(1)(2)(3), Rahman AS(2), Pietersen ANJ(1)(2)(3), Zeater N(1)(2)(3),
Dreher B(2), Solomon SG(3)(4), Martin PR(5)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute.
(2)School of Medical Sciences.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2000, Australia, and.
(4)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, WC1P 0AH,
London, England.
(5)Save Sight Institute, prmartin@physiol.usyd.edu.au.

The koniocellular (K) layers of the primate dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus
house a variety of visual receptive field types, not all of which have been fully
characterized. Here we made single-cell recordings targeted to the K layers of
diurnal New World monkeys (marmosets). A subset of recorded cells was excited by 
both increments and decrements of light intensity (on/off-cells). Histological
reconstruction of the location of these cells confirmed that they are segregated 
to K layers; we therefore refer to these cells as K-on/off cells. The K-on/off
cells show high contrast sensitivity, strong bandpass spatial frequency tuning,
and their response magnitude is strongly reduced by stimuli larger than the
excitatory receptive field (silent suppressive surrounds). Stationary
counterphase gratings evoke unmodulated spike rate increases or frequency-doubled
responses in K-on/off cells; such responses are largely independent of grating
spatial phase. The K-on/off cells are not orientation or direction selective.
Some (but not all) properties of K-on/off cells are consistent with those of
local-edge-detector/impressed-by-contrast cells reported in studies of cat retina
and geniculate, and broad-thorny ganglion cells recorded in macaque monkey
retina. The receptive field properties of K-on/off cells and their preferential
location in the ventral K layers (K1 and K2) make them good candidates for the
direct projection from geniculate to extrastriate cortical area MT/V5. If so,
they could contribute to visual information processing in the dorsal ("where" or 
"action") visual stream.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT We characterize cells in an
evolutionary ancient part of the visual pathway in primates. The cells are
located in the lateral geniculate nucleus (the main visual afferent relay
nucleus), in regions called koniocellular layers that are known to project to
extrastriate visual areas as well as primary visual cortex. The cells show high
contrast sensitivity and rapid, transient responses to light onset and offset.
Their properties suggest they could contribute to visual processing in the dorsal
("where" or "action") visual stream.

Copyright © 2018 the authors 0270-6474/18/3810384-15$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1679-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6596204
PMID: 30327419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):11292-11297. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1811974115. Epub 2018 Oct 15.

Herpesvirus trigger accelerates neuroinflammation in a nonhuman primate model of 
multiple sclerosis.

Leibovitch EC(1), Caruso B(1), Ha SK(2), Schindler MK(2), Lee NJ(2), Luciano
NJ(2), Billioux BJ(1), Guy JR(2), Yen C(3), Sati P(2), Silva AC(3), Reich DS(2), 
Jacobson S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.
(2)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.
(3)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.
(4)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892;
jacobsons@ninds.nih.gov.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Dec 26;115(52):E12127.
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Dec 26;115(52):E12126.

Pathogens, particularly human herpesviruses (HHVs), are implicated as triggers of
disease onset/progression in multiple sclerosis (MS) and other neuroinflammatory 
disorders. However, the time between viral acquisition in childhood and disease
onset in adulthood complicates the study of this association. Using nonhuman
primates, we demonstrate that intranasal inoculations with HHV-6A and HHV-6B
accelerate an MS-like neuroinflammatory disease, experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although animals inoculated intranasally with HHV-6
(virus/EAE marmosets) were asymptomatic, they exhibited significantly accelerated
clinical EAE compared with control animals. Expansion of a proinflammatory CD8
subset correlated with post-EAE survival in virus/EAE marmosets, suggesting that 
a peripheral (viral?) antigen-driven expansion may have occurred post-EAE
induction. HHV-6 viral antigen in virus/EAE marmosets was markedly elevated and
concentrated in brain lesions, similar to previously reported localizations of
HHV-6 in MS brain lesions. Collectively, we demonstrate that asymptomatic
intranasal viral acquisition accelerates subsequent neuroinflammation in a
nonhuman primate model of MS.

Copyright © 2018 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1811974115 
PMCID: PMC6217390
PMID: 30322946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

