

626. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):11292-11297. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1811974115. Epub 2018 Oct 15.

Herpesvirus trigger accelerates neuroinflammation in a nonhuman primate model of 
multiple sclerosis.

Leibovitch EC(1), Caruso B(1), Ha SK(2), Schindler MK(2), Lee NJ(2), Luciano
NJ(2), Billioux BJ(1), Guy JR(2), Yen C(3), Sati P(2), Silva AC(3), Reich DS(2), 
Jacobson S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.
(2)Translational Neuroradiology Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.
(3)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.
(4)Viral Immunology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892;
jacobsons@ninds.nih.gov.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Dec 26;115(52):E12127.
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Dec 26;115(52):E12126.

Pathogens, particularly human herpesviruses (HHVs), are implicated as triggers of
disease onset/progression in multiple sclerosis (MS) and other neuroinflammatory 
disorders. However, the time between viral acquisition in childhood and disease
onset in adulthood complicates the study of this association. Using nonhuman
primates, we demonstrate that intranasal inoculations with HHV-6A and HHV-6B
accelerate an MS-like neuroinflammatory disease, experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although animals inoculated intranasally with HHV-6
(virus/EAE marmosets) were asymptomatic, they exhibited significantly accelerated
clinical EAE compared with control animals. Expansion of a proinflammatory CD8
subset correlated with post-EAE survival in virus/EAE marmosets, suggesting that 
a peripheral (viral?) antigen-driven expansion may have occurred post-EAE
induction. HHV-6 viral antigen in virus/EAE marmosets was markedly elevated and
concentrated in brain lesions, similar to previously reported localizations of
HHV-6 in MS brain lesions. Collectively, we demonstrate that asymptomatic
intranasal viral acquisition accelerates subsequent neuroinflammation in a
nonhuman primate model of MS.

Copyright © 2018 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1811974115 
PMCID: PMC6217390
PMID: 30322946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


627. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):E10486-E10494. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1807192115. Epub 2018 Oct 15.

Lawful tracking of visual motion in humans, macaques, and marmosets in a
naturalistic, continuous, and untrained behavioral context.

Knöll J(1)(2)(3)(4), Pillow JW(5)(6), Huk AC(7)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(3)Center for Perceptual Systems, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(4)Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(5)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
(6)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
(7)Department of Psychology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712;
huk@utexas.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):11112-11114.

Much study of the visual system has focused on how humans and monkeys integrate
moving stimuli over space and time. Such assessments of spatiotemporal
integration provide fundamental grounding for the interpretation of
neurophysiological data, as well as how the resulting neural signals support
perceptual decisions and behavior. However, the insights supported by classical
characterizations of integration performed in humans and rhesus monkeys are
potentially limited with respect to both generality and detail: Standard tasks
require extensive amounts of training, involve abstract stimulus-response
mappings, and depend on combining data across many trials and/or sessions. It is 
thus of concern that the integration observed in classical tasks involves the
recruitment of brain circuits that might not normally subsume natural behaviors, 
and that quantitative analyses have limited power for characterizing single-trial
or single-session processes. Here we bridge these gaps by showing that three
primate species (humans, macaques, and marmosets) track the focus of expansion of
an optic flow field continuously and without substantial training. This
flow-tracking behavior was volitional and reflected substantial temporal
integration. Most strikingly, gaze patterns exhibited lawful and nuanced
dependencies on random perturbations in the stimulus, such that repetitions of
identical flow movies elicited remarkably similar eye movements over long and
continuous time periods. These results demonstrate the generality of
spatiotemporal integration in natural vision, and offer a means for studying
integration outside of artificial tasks while maintaining lawful and highly
reliable behavior.

Copyright © 2018 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1807192115 
PMCID: PMC6217422
PMID: 30322919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

