

627. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):E10486-E10494. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1807192115. Epub 2018 Oct 15.

Lawful tracking of visual motion in humans, macaques, and marmosets in a
naturalistic, continuous, and untrained behavioral context.

Knöll J(1)(2)(3)(4), Pillow JW(5)(6), Huk AC(7)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(3)Center for Perceptual Systems, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(4)Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(5)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
(6)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
(7)Department of Psychology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712;
huk@utexas.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):11112-11114.

Much study of the visual system has focused on how humans and monkeys integrate
moving stimuli over space and time. Such assessments of spatiotemporal
integration provide fundamental grounding for the interpretation of
neurophysiological data, as well as how the resulting neural signals support
perceptual decisions and behavior. However, the insights supported by classical
characterizations of integration performed in humans and rhesus monkeys are
potentially limited with respect to both generality and detail: Standard tasks
require extensive amounts of training, involve abstract stimulus-response
mappings, and depend on combining data across many trials and/or sessions. It is 
thus of concern that the integration observed in classical tasks involves the
recruitment of brain circuits that might not normally subsume natural behaviors, 
and that quantitative analyses have limited power for characterizing single-trial
or single-session processes. Here we bridge these gaps by showing that three
primate species (humans, macaques, and marmosets) track the focus of expansion of
an optic flow field continuously and without substantial training. This
flow-tracking behavior was volitional and reflected substantial temporal
integration. Most strikingly, gaze patterns exhibited lawful and nuanced
dependencies on random perturbations in the stimulus, such that repetitions of
identical flow movies elicited remarkably similar eye movements over long and
continuous time periods. These results demonstrate the generality of
spatiotemporal integration in natural vision, and offer a means for studying
integration outside of artificial tasks while maintaining lawful and highly
reliable behavior.

Copyright © 2018 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1807192115 
PMCID: PMC6217422
PMID: 30322919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


628. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2019 Feb 15;74(3):315-324. doi:
10.1093/gerona/gly237.

Marmoset as a Model to Study Kidney Changes Associated With Aging.

Lee HJ(1), Gonzalez O(2), Dick EJ(2), Donati A(1), Feliers D(1), Choudhury
GG(1)(3), Ross C(4), Venkatachalam M(5), Tardif SD(2)(6), Kasinath BS(1)(3)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health, Long School of Medicine,
San Antonio.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, Texas.
(3)Geriatric Research Education, and Clinical Center (GRECC), South Texas
Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio.
(4)Department of Biology, Texas A & M University, San Antonio.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Texas Health, Long School of Medicine, 
San Antonio.
(6)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, San Antonio, Texas.

Erratum in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2022 Jan 7;77(1):84.

We evaluated whether the marmoset, a nonhuman primate, can serve as a good model 
to study aging-related changes in the kidney by employing healthy young and aged 
marmosets of both sexes. Aging was associated with glomerulosclerosis,
interstitial fibrosis, and arteriolosclerosis in both sexes; correspondingly, the
content of matrix proteins was increased. Functionally, aging resulted in an
increase in urinary albumin and protein excretion. There was a robust correlation
between markers of fibrosis and functional changes. We explored signaling
pathways as potential mechanistic events. Aging in males, but not in females, was
associated with reduced renal cortical activity of AMP-activated protein kinase
(AMPK) and a trend toward activation of mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1
(mTORC1); upstream of AMPK and mTORC1, Akt and IGF-1 receptor were activated. In 
both sexes, aging promoted kidney activation of transforming growth factor β-1
signaling pathway. While the expression of cystathionine β-synthase (CBS), an
enzyme involved hydrogen sulfide (H2S) synthesis, was reduced in both aged males 
and females, decreased H2S generation was seen in only males. Our studies show
that the marmoset is a valid model to study kidney aging; some of the signaling
pathways involved in renal senescence differ between male and female marmosets.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Gerontological Society of
America 2018.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gly237 
PMCID: PMC6376089
PMID: 30321310  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

