

645. J Comp Neurol. 2018 Dec 1;526(17):2870-2883. doi: 10.1002/cne.24534. Epub 2018
Nov 4.

Full: Ontogenesis and development of the nonhuman primate pulvinar.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Kwan WC(1), de Souza MJ(1), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Recent evidence demonstrates that the pulvinar nuclei play a critical role in
shaping the connectivity and function of the multiple cortical areas they
connect. Surprisingly, however, little is known about the development of this
area, the largest corpus of the thalamic nuclei, which go on to occupy 40% of the
adult thalamus in the human. It was proposed that the nonhuman primate and the
human pulvinar develop according to very different processes, with a greatly
reduced neurogenic period in nonhuman primate compared to human and divergent
origins. In the marmoset monkey, we demonstrate that neurons populating the
pulvinar are generated throughout gestation, suggesting that this aspect of
development is more similar to the human than first predicted. While we were able
to confirm the diencephalic source of pulvinar neurons, we provide new evidence
contesting the presence of an additional niche in the telencephalon. Finally, our
study defines new molecular markers that will simplify future investigations in
the development and evolution of the pulvinar.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24534 
PMID: 30225841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Genome. 2018 Oct;61(10):771-776. doi: 10.1139/gen-2018-0119. Epub 2018 Sep 17.

Chromosome painting of the red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas) compared to other 
Callitrichinae monkeys.

Stanyon R(1), Giusti D(1), Araújo NP(2), Bigoni F(3), Svartman M(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Biology, University of Florence, Via del Proconsolo 12, 50122 
Firenze, Italy.
(2)b Department of General Biology, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Avenida
Antônio Carlos, 6627, Pampulha, CEP 31270-901, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
(3)c Museum of Natural History, Anthropology Section, University of Florence, Via
del Proconsolo 12, 50122 Firenze, Italy.

Here we present, for the first time, the complete chromosome painting map of
Saguinus midas, the red-handed tamarin. Chromosome banding and painting with
human chromosome-specific probes were used to compare the karyotype of this
species with those of four other Neotropical primates of the subfamily
Callitrichinae: Leontopithecus rosalia, Callithrix geoffroyi, C. penicillata, and
Mico argentatus. The chromosome painting map of S. midas was identical to that of
L. rosalia and other previously studied tamarin species (genera Saguinus and
Leontopithecus). The three marmoset species studied (genera Callithrix and Mico) 
differed in the painting pattern of four human probes (chromosomes 1, 2, 10, and 
16). These paints identified the presence or absence of chromosome associations
HSA 1/10 and 2/16 in these taxa. By integrating our data with those from the
literature, we were able to propose an ancestral Callitrichinae karyotype. The
genera Saguinus and Leontopithecus (tamarins) conserve the ancestral
Callitrichinae karyotype, while Mico and Callithrix (marmosets) show more derived
karyotypes due to chromosome translocations and fissions that occurred during the
evolution of these taxa.

DOI: 10.1139/gen-2018-0119 
PMID: 30222938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

