

646. Genome. 2018 Oct;61(10):771-776. doi: 10.1139/gen-2018-0119. Epub 2018 Sep 17.

Chromosome painting of the red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas) compared to other 
Callitrichinae monkeys.

Stanyon R(1), Giusti D(1), Araújo NP(2), Bigoni F(3), Svartman M(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Biology, University of Florence, Via del Proconsolo 12, 50122 
Firenze, Italy.
(2)b Department of General Biology, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Avenida
Antônio Carlos, 6627, Pampulha, CEP 31270-901, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.
(3)c Museum of Natural History, Anthropology Section, University of Florence, Via
del Proconsolo 12, 50122 Firenze, Italy.

Here we present, for the first time, the complete chromosome painting map of
Saguinus midas, the red-handed tamarin. Chromosome banding and painting with
human chromosome-specific probes were used to compare the karyotype of this
species with those of four other Neotropical primates of the subfamily
Callitrichinae: Leontopithecus rosalia, Callithrix geoffroyi, C. penicillata, and
Mico argentatus. The chromosome painting map of S. midas was identical to that of
L. rosalia and other previously studied tamarin species (genera Saguinus and
Leontopithecus). The three marmoset species studied (genera Callithrix and Mico) 
differed in the painting pattern of four human probes (chromosomes 1, 2, 10, and 
16). These paints identified the presence or absence of chromosome associations
HSA 1/10 and 2/16 in these taxa. By integrating our data with those from the
literature, we were able to propose an ancestral Callitrichinae karyotype. The
genera Saguinus and Leontopithecus (tamarins) conserve the ancestral
Callitrichinae karyotype, while Mico and Callithrix (marmosets) show more derived
karyotypes due to chromosome translocations and fissions that occurred during the
evolution of these taxa.

DOI: 10.1139/gen-2018-0119 
PMID: 30222938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2018 Aug 29;9:467. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00467.
eCollection 2018.

Differentiation of Testis Xenografts in the Prepubertal Marmoset Depends on the
Sex and Status of the Mouse Host.

Sharma S(1), Sandhowe-Klaverkamp R(1), Schlatt S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Münster, Germany.

This study investigates the effects of the endocrine milieu of immunodeficient
mouse host (intact vs. castrated male, intact male vs. intact female) on
prepubertal marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) testicular xenografts. Previous
marmoset xenografting studies used castrated nude mouse hosts which did not
support efficient graft survival and maturation. Due to the distinct endocrine
milieu in marmosets with a deletion of exon 10 in the LH receptor, we wanted to
explore whether the most efficient xenograft development occurs in intact male
mouse hosts compared to intact females or castrated males. We xenografted freshly
isolated tissue from prepubertal marmosets (age range 4-6 months) into the back
skin of three groups of nude mice (intact male, castrated male, and intact
female). We collected serum for endocrine determinations and grafts after 20
weeks and determined hormonal/reproductive status, graft survival, somatic cell
development and initiation of germ cell differentiation. Graft development,
tubular integrity, and germ cell differentiation status in the grafts retrieved
from different hosts was scored by morphometric analysis. The influence of the
different endocrine status was compared between groups of hosts. Endocrine
readouts and histological endpoints in xenografts substantiate that grafts were
exposed to different microenvironments and responded with host specific
developmental patterns. The intact male hosts supported the most significant
progression of germ cell development. Our data provide evidence for the important
role of the host milieu on survival and differentiation of marmoset xenografts.
The xenografting model offers innovative avenues to exploit development and
endocrine effects in the primate marmoset testis using limited numbers of
non-human primates for the experimental settings.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00467 
PMCID: PMC6123353
PMID: 30210448 

