

648. J Comp Psychol. 2019 Feb;133(1):72-80. doi: 10.1037/com0000129. Epub 2018 Sep 10.

Artificial visual stimuli for animal experiments: An experimental evaluation in a
prey capture context with common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Oh J(1), Šlipogor V(1), Fitch WT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology.

Experimenters often use images of real objects to simulate interactions between
animal subjects or visual stimuli on a touchscreen to test animal cognition.
However, the degree to which nonhuman animals recognize 2-D images as
representing the corresponding real objects remains debated. The common marmoset 
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has been described as a species that spontaneously
shows natural behaviors to 2-D images, for example, grasping behaviors to insects
and fear responses to snakes. In this study, we tested 10 monkeys with their
favorite food item (crickets), 2-D images (a photo and videos of a cricket), and 
a 3-D plastic model to reevaluate marmoset's spontaneous responses to 2-D images 
and to explore which artificial visual stimuli can motivate spontaneous
interactions. The monkeys showed grasping behavior to the real cricket and the
3-D plastic model, but to none of the 2-D images. Our experiment suggests that
depth information is the most important factor eliciting predatory behavior from 
the marmosets, and, therefore, a stimulus produced by a 3-D printer could be a
good alternative when a spontaneous interaction or a convincing stimulus is
required. Furthermore, this work serves as a cautionary tale for those using 2-D 
image presentations with marmosets, and perhaps other animal species. (PsycINFO
Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/com0000129 
PMID: 30198735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. J Med Primatol. 2018 Dec;47(6):402-411. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12375. Epub 2018 Sep 6.

Development and analytical validation of a radioimmunoassay for the
quantification of alpha1 -proteinase inhibitor in serum and feces from the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Parambeth JC(1), Lidbury JA(1), Suchodolski JS(1), Steiner JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College
Station, Texas.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to develop and analytically validate 
a radioimmunoassay (RIA) for the measurement of alpha1 -proteinase inhibitor (α1 
-PI) concentrations in serum and feces from the common marmoset.
METHODS: Serum samples (n = 30) and 3-day fecal samples (n = 30) were obtained
from healthy marmosets. An RIA was established and validated by determination of 
sensitivity, working range, dilutional parallelism, spiking recovery, and intra- 
and interassay variability. A reference interval for mα1 -PI in serum and feces
was established.
RESULTS: Sensitivity and upper limit of the working range were 0.75 and
100.62 μg/L, respectively. Observed-to-expected (O/E) ratios for serial dilutions
ranged from 89.9% to 123.0% (mean ±SD: 106.0 ± 11.5%) for 8 serum samples, and
from 90.6% to 132.7% (mean ±SD: 107.6 ± 19.2%) for 4 fecal samples. O/E ratios
for spiking recovery ranged from 97.6% to 104.4% (mean ±SD: 101.3 ± 3%) for 4
serum samples, and from 97.5% to 101.4% (mean ±SD: 99.2 ± 1.8%) for 4 fecal
samples and 3 different spiking concentrations. Coefficients of variation (CV)
for intra-assay variability for 8 serum samples ranged from 1.7% to 10.6% and
2.2% to 5.1% in the 8 fecal samples. The interassay CV for eight serum samples
ranged from 1.3% to 9.9%, and from 1.0% to 6.7% in the 8 fecal samples. The
reference interval in serum was determined to be 1047-1484 μg/L. The reference
interval in serum was determined to be 1047-1484 μg/L. The reference interval for
the 3-day mean fecal concentration, and 3-day maximum fecal concentration were
determined to be 32.4-124.4 μg/g and 39.1-158.7 μg/g of feces, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The developed assay is sensitive, linear, accurate, precise, and
reproducible. Further studies are needed to determine the clinical utility of
this assay.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12375 
PMCID: PMC6234082
PMID: 30187920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

