

649. J Med Primatol. 2018 Dec;47(6):402-411. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12375. Epub 2018 Sep 6.

Development and analytical validation of a radioimmunoassay for the
quantification of alpha1 -proteinase inhibitor in serum and feces from the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Parambeth JC(1), Lidbury JA(1), Suchodolski JS(1), Steiner JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College
Station, Texas.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to develop and analytically validate 
a radioimmunoassay (RIA) for the measurement of alpha1 -proteinase inhibitor (α1 
-PI) concentrations in serum and feces from the common marmoset.
METHODS: Serum samples (n = 30) and 3-day fecal samples (n = 30) were obtained
from healthy marmosets. An RIA was established and validated by determination of 
sensitivity, working range, dilutional parallelism, spiking recovery, and intra- 
and interassay variability. A reference interval for mα1 -PI in serum and feces
was established.
RESULTS: Sensitivity and upper limit of the working range were 0.75 and
100.62 μg/L, respectively. Observed-to-expected (O/E) ratios for serial dilutions
ranged from 89.9% to 123.0% (mean ±SD: 106.0 ± 11.5%) for 8 serum samples, and
from 90.6% to 132.7% (mean ±SD: 107.6 ± 19.2%) for 4 fecal samples. O/E ratios
for spiking recovery ranged from 97.6% to 104.4% (mean ±SD: 101.3 ± 3%) for 4
serum samples, and from 97.5% to 101.4% (mean ±SD: 99.2 ± 1.8%) for 4 fecal
samples and 3 different spiking concentrations. Coefficients of variation (CV)
for intra-assay variability for 8 serum samples ranged from 1.7% to 10.6% and
2.2% to 5.1% in the 8 fecal samples. The interassay CV for eight serum samples
ranged from 1.3% to 9.9%, and from 1.0% to 6.7% in the 8 fecal samples. The
reference interval in serum was determined to be 1047-1484 μg/L. The reference
interval in serum was determined to be 1047-1484 μg/L. The reference interval for
the 3-day mean fecal concentration, and 3-day maximum fecal concentration were
determined to be 32.4-124.4 μg/g and 39.1-158.7 μg/g of feces, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The developed assay is sensitive, linear, accurate, precise, and
reproducible. Further studies are needed to determine the clinical utility of
this assay.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12375 
PMCID: PMC6234082
PMID: 30187920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Biol Pharm Bull. 2018;41(9):1324-1329. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b18-00142.

Molecular Investigations of the Development and Diseases of Cerebral Cortex
Folding using Gyrencephalic Mammal Ferrets.

Kawasaki H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Neuroscience, Graduate School of Medical Sciences,
Kanazawa University.

Folds of the cerebral cortex (gyri and sulci) are among the most important
properties of the mammalian brain. Uncovering the physiological roles,
developmental mechanisms and evolution of the cortical folds would greatly
facilitate our understanding of the human brain and its diseases. Although the
anatomical features of the cortical folds have been intensively investigated, our
knowledge about their molecular bases is still limited. To overcome this
limitation, we recently established rapid and efficient genetic manipulation
techniques for the brain of gyrencephalic mammal ferrets (Mustela putorius furo).
Using these techniques, we successfully uncovered the molecular mechanisms of
cortical folding. In this article, I will summarize our recent research on the
molecular mechanisms of development and diseases of cortical folding.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.b18-00142 
PMID: 30175769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

