

65. J Comp Neurol. 2022 Apr;530(6):923-940. doi: 10.1002/cne.25258. Epub 2021 Oct 23.

Satb1 expression in retinal ganglion cells of marmosets, macaques, and humans.

Nasir-Ahmad S(1)(2), Vanstone KA(1), Novelli M(1), Lee SCS(1)(2), Do MTH(3),
Martin PR(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health, Save Sight Institute, and Discipline of
Ophthalmology, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(3)F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center and Department of Neurology, Boston Children's 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Recent advances in single-cell RNA sequencing have enabled the molecular
distinction of ganglion cell populations in mammalian retinas. Here we used
antibodies against the transcription factor special AT-rich binding protein 1
(Satb1, a protein which is expressed by on-off direction-selective ganglion cells
in mouse retina) to study Satb1 expression in the retina of marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus), macaques (Macaca fascicularis), and humans. In all species, Satb1 was
exclusively expressed in retinal ganglion cells. The Satb1 cells made up ∼2% of
the ganglion cell population in the central retina of all species, rising to a
maximum ∼7% in peripheral marmoset retina. Intracellular injections in marmoset
and macaque retinas revealed that most Satb1 expressing ganglion cells are
widefield ganglion cells. In marmoset, Satb1 cells have a densely branching
dendritic tree and include broad and narrow thorny, recursive bistratified, and
parasol cells, all of which show some costratification with the outer or inner
cholinergic amacrine cells. The recursive bistratified cells showed the strongest
costratification but did not show extensive cofasciculation as reported for
on-off direction-selective ganglion cells in rabbit and rodent retinas. In
macaque, Satb1 was not expressed in recursive bistratified cells, but in large
sparsely branching cells. Our findings further support the idea that the
expression of transcription factors in retinal ganglion cells is not conserved
across Old World (human and macaque) and New World (marmoset) primates and
provides a further step to link a molecular marker with specific cell types.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25258 
PMCID: PMC8831458 [Available on 2023-04-01]
PMID: 34622958 


66. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2021 Sep 22;11:128-136. doi: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2021.09.003.
eCollection 2021 Dec.

Roving oddball paradigm elicits sensory gating, frequency sensitivity, and
long-latency response in common marmosets.

O'Reilly JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biomedical Engineering, Rangsit University, 52/347 Muang-Ake,
Phaholyothin Road, Pathumthani 12000, Thailand.

Mismatch negativity (MMN) is a candidate biomarker for neuropsychiatric disease. 
Understanding the extent to which it reflects cognitive deviance-detection or
purely sensory processes will assist practitioners in making informed clinical
interpretations. This study compares the utility of deviance-detection and
sensory-processing theories for describing MMN-like auditory responses of a
common marmoset monkey during roving oddball stimulation. The following
exploratory analyses were performed on an existing dataset: responses during the 
transition and repetition sequence of the roving oddball paradigm (standard ->
deviant/S1 -> S2 -> S3) were compared; long-latency potentials evoked by deviant 
stimuli were examined using a double-epoch waveform subtraction; effects of
increasing stimulus repetitions on standard and deviant responses were analyzed; 
and transitions between standard and deviant stimuli were divided into ascending 
and descending frequency changes to explore contributions of
frequency-sensitivity. An enlarged auditory response to deviant stimuli was
observed. This decreased exponentially with stimulus repetition, characteristic
of sensory gating. A slow positive deflection was viewed over approximately
300-800 ms after the deviant stimulus, which is more difficult to ascribe to
afferent sensory mechanisms. When split into ascending and descending frequency
transitions, the resulting difference waveforms were disproportionally influenced
by descending frequency deviant stimuli. This asymmetry is inconsistent with the 
general deviance-detection theory of MMN. These findings tentatively suggest that
MMN-like responses from common marmosets are predominantly influenced by rapid
sensory adaptation and frequency preference of the auditory cortex, while
deviance-detection may play a role in long-latency activity.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2021.09.003 
PMCID: PMC8482433
PMID: 34622244 

