

654. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22905. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22905. Epub 2018 Aug 14.

Maintenance of bone mass despite estrogen depletion in female common marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH(2)(3), Binkley N(4)(5), Colman RJ(2)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal Biology, University of
California, Riverside, California.
(2)University of Wisconsin, Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.
(4)Institute on Aging, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(6)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.

Estrogen depletion leads to bone loss in almost all mammals with frequent regular
ovarian cycles. However, subordinate adult female common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) undergo socially induced anovulation and hypoestrogenism without
clinically apparent adverse skeletal consequences. Thus, we speculated that this 
non human primate might have evolved a mechanism to avoid estrogen-depletion bone
loss. To test this possibility, we performed three experiments in which
lumbar-spine (L5-L6) bone mineral content (BMC) and density (BMD) were assessed
using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry: (i) cross-sectionally in 13 long-term
ovariectomized animals and 12 age- and weight-matched controls undergoing
ovulatory cycles; (ii) longitudinally in 12 animals prior to, 3-4 and 6-7 months 
following ovariectomy (ovx), and six controls; and (iii) cross-sectionally in
nine anovulatory subordinate and nine dominant females. In Experiments 1 and 3,
plasma estradiol and estrone concentrations were measured and uterine dimensions 
were obtained by ultrasound in a subset of animals as a marker of functional
estrogen depletion. Estrogen levels, uterine trans-fundus width, and uterine
dorso-ventral diameter were lower in ovariectomized and subordinate females than 
in those undergoing ovulatory cycles. However, no differences were found in L5-L6
BMC or BMD. These results indicate that estrogen depletion, whether surgically or
socially induced, is not associated with lower bone mass in female common
marmosets. Thus, this species may possess unique adaptations to avoid bone loss
associated with estrogen depletion.

Â© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22905 
PMCID: PMC7336524
PMID: 30106167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2018;152(2):94-99. doi: 10.1254/fpj.152.94.

[Usage of common marmoset to drug discovery research].

[Article in Japanese]

Sasaki E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals.

Rodent laboratory animals, such as mice and rats have been greatly contributing
to biomedical research. Although its usefulness would not change in the future,
nonhuman primates (NHPs) also offer excellent models for preclinical research to 
assess safety and efficacy of developing novel therapeutic approaches because of 
their similarities of genetics, metabolism and physiological characteristics to
humans. Recent years, the gene modification technology in nonhuman primates has
been developed. In fact, pre-clinical studies using nonhuman primates are
increasing in the world, especially in the neuroscience research field. Among the
NHPs, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is one of a suitable NHP
laboratory animal for producing genetically modified models because they are
fecund animal. This article outlines the common marmoset and that of the disease 
models.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.152.94 
PMID: 30101867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

