

655. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2018;152(2):94-99. doi: 10.1254/fpj.152.94.

[Usage of common marmoset to drug discovery research].

[Article in Japanese]

Sasaki E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals.

Rodent laboratory animals, such as mice and rats have been greatly contributing
to biomedical research. Although its usefulness would not change in the future,
nonhuman primates (NHPs) also offer excellent models for preclinical research to 
assess safety and efficacy of developing novel therapeutic approaches because of 
their similarities of genetics, metabolism and physiological characteristics to
humans. Recent years, the gene modification technology in nonhuman primates has
been developed. In fact, pre-clinical studies using nonhuman primates are
increasing in the world, especially in the neuroscience research field. Among the
NHPs, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is one of a suitable NHP
laboratory animal for producing genetically modified models because they are
fecund animal. This article outlines the common marmoset and that of the disease 
models.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.152.94 
PMID: 30101867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Prog Brain Res. 2018;238:91-113. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2018.06.004. Epub 2018 Jul
2.

Manual bias, behavior, and cognition in common marmosets and other primates.

Rogers LJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Science and Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW,
Australia. Electronic address: lrogers@une.edu.au.

This chapter examines the importance of studying hand preference together with
different expressions of behavior. Cognitive differences between left- and
right-handed primates are discussed. As shown in several species of primate, eye 
preference, but not hand preference, is biased at the level of the population and
reflects hemispheric asymmetry of processing. Hand preference, determined from
simple grasping of pieces of food and taking them to the mouth, is consistent for
individuals but it is not population biased. It is a measure of an individual's
preference to use a particular hemisphere, and hence which cognitive processes
are characteristic of the individual. Compared to left-handed subjects,
right-handed subjects are more active in exploring novel objects, show more
social facilitation of behavior, have a positive cognitive bias, and express
lower levels of fear and stress responses. In marmosets, learning of food
searching tasks is not associated with hand preference. Strength of hand
preference, rather than its direction, is linked to the ability to perform two
tasks at once, viz., detection of a predator while searching for food. Marmosets 
with strong hand preferences are able to perform these two tasks at once but
those with weak or no hand preference are unable to do so.

Â© 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2018.06.004 
PMID: 30097204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

