

656. Prog Brain Res. 2018;238:91-113. doi: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2018.06.004. Epub 2018 Jul
2.

Manual bias, behavior, and cognition in common marmosets and other primates.

Rogers LJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Science and Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW,
Australia. Electronic address: lrogers@une.edu.au.

This chapter examines the importance of studying hand preference together with
different expressions of behavior. Cognitive differences between left- and
right-handed primates are discussed. As shown in several species of primate, eye 
preference, but not hand preference, is biased at the level of the population and
reflects hemispheric asymmetry of processing. Hand preference, determined from
simple grasping of pieces of food and taking them to the mouth, is consistent for
individuals but it is not population biased. It is a measure of an individual's
preference to use a particular hemisphere, and hence which cognitive processes
are characteristic of the individual. Compared to left-handed subjects,
right-handed subjects are more active in exploring novel objects, show more
social facilitation of behavior, have a positive cognitive bias, and express
lower levels of fear and stress responses. In marmosets, learning of food
searching tasks is not associated with hand preference. Strength of hand
preference, rather than its direction, is linked to the ability to perform two
tasks at once, viz., detection of a predator while searching for food. Marmosets 
with strong hand preferences are able to perform these two tasks at once but
those with weak or no hand preference are unable to do so.

© 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.pbr.2018.06.004 
PMID: 30097204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2018;89(5):305-315. doi: 10.1159/000490702. Epub 2018 Aug
8.

Do Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) Use Scent to Communicate Information
about Food Resources?

Thompson CL(1), Blanck LM(1), Pearson M(2), Scheidel C(1), Vinyard CJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Grand Valley State University, Allendale,
Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Akron, Akron, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University,
Rootstown, Ohio, USA.

Many animals use olfactory cues to signal information about food resources;
however, this particular use of scent has received little attention in primates. 
Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are exudativores that gouge bark to elicit 
exudate production and frequently deposit scent marks at gouge holes. We
conducted preliminary tests of the hypothesis that common marmosets use olfactory
cues to communicate information about exudate value, with more desirable
resources targeted for marking. We performed choice experiments on two captive
male marmosets. The animals were presented with: (1) a urine scent-marked and
unmarked food resource, and (2) a high and low value food resource (i.e.,
greater/lesser food volumes). Marmosets placed more scent marks on high, compared
to low, value food resources. Animals also spent more time gouging, removed more 
bark and more frequently revisited high versus low value food resources. Lastly, 
scent-marked foods were gouged more often than unmarked foods. Our findings
support the hypothesis that marmosets use scent marking and olfaction to convey
information about food resources, although verification in a larger sample is
needed. Nonetheless, the demonstrated link between food value and scent marking
suggests that olfactory signals may aid marmoset foraging decisions.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000490702 
PMID: 30089296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

