

657. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2018;89(5):305-315. doi: 10.1159/000490702. Epub 2018 Aug
8.

Do Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) Use Scent to Communicate Information
about Food Resources?

Thompson CL(1), Blanck LM(1), Pearson M(2), Scheidel C(1), Vinyard CJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Grand Valley State University, Allendale,
Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Akron, Akron, Ohio, USA.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University,
Rootstown, Ohio, USA.

Many animals use olfactory cues to signal information about food resources;
however, this particular use of scent has received little attention in primates. 
Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are exudativores that gouge bark to elicit 
exudate production and frequently deposit scent marks at gouge holes. We
conducted preliminary tests of the hypothesis that common marmosets use olfactory
cues to communicate information about exudate value, with more desirable
resources targeted for marking. We performed choice experiments on two captive
male marmosets. The animals were presented with: (1) a urine scent-marked and
unmarked food resource, and (2) a high and low value food resource (i.e.,
greater/lesser food volumes). Marmosets placed more scent marks on high, compared
to low, value food resources. Animals also spent more time gouging, removed more 
bark and more frequently revisited high versus low value food resources. Lastly, 
scent-marked foods were gouged more often than unmarked foods. Our findings
support the hypothesis that marmosets use scent marking and olfaction to convey
information about food resources, although verification in a larger sample is
needed. Nonetheless, the demonstrated link between food value and scent marking
suggests that olfactory signals may aid marmoset foraging decisions.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000490702 
PMID: 30089296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2018 Dec;391(12):1339-1345. doi:
10.1007/s00210-018-1549-6. Epub 2018 Aug 7.

Nefazodone reduces dyskinesia, but not psychosis-like behaviours, in the
parkinsonian marmoset.

Hamadjida A(1)(2), Nuara SG(3), Bédard D(1), Frouni I(1)(4), Kwan C(1)(2),
Gourdon JC(3), Huot P(5)(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St., BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(4)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801
University St., BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Integrated Program in Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(8)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(9)Division of Neurology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Nefazodone is an anti-depressant that interacts with a wealth of pharmacological 
targets, including some that may exert anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic effects
in Parkinson's disease (PD), notably serotonin 1A and 2A receptors. In this
study, we sought to determine the effect of nefazodone on
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and psychosis-like
behaviours (PLBs) in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned primate. Six common marmosets developed parkinsonism following
administration of MPTP, after which they were treated chronically with L-DOPA to 
induce stable dyskinesia and PLBs. In behavioural experiments, nefazodone (0.01, 
0.1 and 1 mg/kg) or vehicle was administered in combination with L-DOPA and its
effects on dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonian disability were assessed. The
addition of nefazodone 0.01, 0.1 and 1 mg/kg to L-DOPA reduced the severity of
peak dose dyskinesia by ≈ 21%, ≈ 39% and ≈ 42% (all P < 0.05), while it did not
have any significant effect on PLBs, when compared to L-DOPA/vehicle.
Parkinsonian disability was not affected by any dose of nefazodone. Our results
suggest that nefazodone may be effective to alleviate L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia
in PD, while it may not exert any beneficial effect on dopaminergic psychosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-018-1549-6 
PMID: 30088028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

