

659. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2019 Mar 1;273:192-201. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2018.07.016.
Epub 2018 Aug 1.

Social interactions and androgens levels in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in
field and laboratory studies: A preliminary investigation of the Challenge
Hypothesis.

Sousa MBC(1), Pontes MC(2), Galvão ACM(3), Silva HPAD(3), Galvão-Coelho NL(4).

Author information: 
(1)BrainInstitute, Federal Universityof Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil;
PostgraduateProgram in Psychobiology, Federal Universityof Rio Grande do Norte,
Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory of Hormones Measurement, Department of Physiology, 
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil. Electronic address:
mbcsousa@neuro.ufrn.br.
(2)PostgraduateProgram in Psychobiology, Federal Universityof Rio Grande do
Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(3)PostgraduateProgram in Psychobiology, Federal Universityof Rio Grande do
Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory of Hormones Measurement, Department of
Physiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(4)PostgraduateProgram in Psychobiology, Federal Universityof Rio Grande do
Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil; Laboratory of Hormones Measurement, Department of
Physiology, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil;
National Institute of Science and Technology in Translational Medicine, Natal,
RN, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2018.07.016 
PMID: 30076805 


660. J Acoust Soc Am. 2018 Jul;144(1):478. doi: 10.1121/1.5047743.

Automatic detection and classification of marmoset vocalizations using deep and
recurrent neural networks.

Zhang YJ(1), Huang JF(2), Gong N(2), Ling ZH(1), Hu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Engineering Laboratory for Speech and Language Information
Processing, University of Science and Technology of China, 443 Huangshan Road,
Hefei 230027, China.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, Chinese
Academy of Sciences (CAS) Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, Shanghai
Institutes for Biological Sciences, CAS, 320 Yueyang Road, Shanghai 200031,
China.

This paper investigates the methods to detect and classify marmoset vocalizations
automatically using a large data set of marmoset vocalizations and deep learning 
techniques. For vocalization detection, neural networks-based methods, including 
deep neural network (DNN) and recurrent neural network with long short-term
memory units, are designed and compared against a conventional rule-based
detection method. For vocalization classification, three different classification
algorithms are compared, including a support vector machine (SVM), DNN, and long 
short-term memory recurrent neural networks (LSTM-RNNs). A 1500-min audio data
set containing recordings from four pairs of marmoset twins and manual
annotations is employed for experiments. Two test sets are built according to
whether the test samples are produced by the marmosets in the training set (test 
set I) or not (test set II). Experimental results show that the LSTM-RNN-based
detection method outperformed others and achieved 0.92% and 1.67% frame error
rate on these two test sets. Furthermore, the deep learning models obtained
higher classification accuracy than the SVM model, which was 95.60% and 91.67% on
the two test sets, respectively.

DOI: 10.1121/1.5047743 
PMID: 30075670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

