

66. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2021 Sep 22;11:128-136. doi: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2021.09.003.
eCollection 2021 Dec.

Roving oddball paradigm elicits sensory gating, frequency sensitivity, and
long-latency response in common marmosets.

O'Reilly JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biomedical Engineering, Rangsit University, 52/347 Muang-Ake,
Phaholyothin Road, Pathumthani 12000, Thailand.

Mismatch negativity (MMN) is a candidate biomarker for neuropsychiatric disease. 
Understanding the extent to which it reflects cognitive deviance-detection or
purely sensory processes will assist practitioners in making informed clinical
interpretations. This study compares the utility of deviance-detection and
sensory-processing theories for describing MMN-like auditory responses of a
common marmoset monkey during roving oddball stimulation. The following
exploratory analyses were performed on an existing dataset: responses during the 
transition and repetition sequence of the roving oddball paradigm (standard ->
deviant/S1 -> S2 -> S3) were compared; long-latency potentials evoked by deviant 
stimuli were examined using a double-epoch waveform subtraction; effects of
increasing stimulus repetitions on standard and deviant responses were analyzed; 
and transitions between standard and deviant stimuli were divided into ascending 
and descending frequency changes to explore contributions of
frequency-sensitivity. An enlarged auditory response to deviant stimuli was
observed. This decreased exponentially with stimulus repetition, characteristic
of sensory gating. A slow positive deflection was viewed over approximately
300-800 ms after the deviant stimulus, which is more difficult to ascribe to
afferent sensory mechanisms. When split into ascending and descending frequency
transitions, the resulting difference waveforms were disproportionally influenced
by descending frequency deviant stimuli. This asymmetry is inconsistent with the 
general deviance-detection theory of MMN. These findings tentatively suggest that
MMN-like responses from common marmosets are predominantly influenced by rapid
sensory adaptation and frequency preference of the auditory cortex, while
deviance-detection may play a role in long-latency activity.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2021.09.003 
PMCID: PMC8482433
PMID: 34622244 


67. Nature. 2021 Oct;598(7879):86-102. doi: 10.1038/s41586-021-03950-0. Epub 2021 Oct
6.

A multimodal cell census and atlas of the mammalian primary motor cortex.

BRAIN Initiative Cell Census Network (BICCN).

Collaborators: Callaway EM, Dong HW, Ecker JR, Hawrylycz MJ, Huang ZJ, Lein ES,
Ngai J, Osten P, Ren B, Tolias AS, White O, Zeng H, Zhuang X, Ascoli GA, Behrens 
MM, Chun J, Feng G, Gee JC, Ghosh SS, Halchenko YO, Hertzano R, Lim BK, Martone
ME, Ng L, Pachter L, Ropelewski AJ, Tickle TL, Yang XW, Zhang K, Bakken TE,
Berens P, Daigle TL, Harris JA, Jorstad NL, Kalmbach BE, Kobak D, Li YE, Liu H,
Matho KS, Mukamel EA, Naeemi M, Scala F, Tan P, Ting JT, Xie F, Zhang M, Zhang Z,
Zhou J, Zingg B, Armand E, Yao Z, Bertagnolli D, Casper T, Crichton K, Dee N,
Diep D, Ding SL, Dong W, Dougherty EL, Fong O, Goldman M, Goldy J, Hodge RD, Hu
L, Keene CD, Krienen FM, Kroll M, Lake BB, Lathia K, Linnarsson S, Liu CS,
Macosko EZ, McCarroll SA, McMillen D, Nadaf NM, Nguyen TN, Palmer CR, Pham T,
Plongthongkum N, Reed NM, Regev A, Rimorin C, Romanow WJ, Savoia S, Siletti K,
Smith K, Sulc J, Tasic B, Tieu M, Torkelson A, Tung H, van Velthoven CTJ,
Vanderburg CR, Yanny AM, Fang R, Hou X, Lucero JD, Osteen JK, Pinto-Duarte A,
Poirion O, Preissl S, Wang X, Aldridge AI, Bartlett A, Boggeman L, O'Connor C,
Castanon RG, Chen H, Fitzpatrick C, Luo C, Nery JR, Nunn M, Rivkin AC, Tian W,
Dominguez B, Ito-Cole T, Jacobs M, Jin X, Lee CT, Lee KF, Miyazaki PA, Pang Y,
Rashid M, Smith JB, Vu M, Williams E, Biancalani T, Booeshaghi AS, Crow M, Dudoit
S, Fischer S, Gillis J, Hu Q, Kharchenko PV, Niu SY, Ntranos V, Purdom E, Risso
D, de Bézieux HR, Somasundaram S, Street K, Svensson V, Vaishnav ED, Van den
Berge K, Welch JD, An X, Bateup HS, Bowman I, Chance RK, Foster NN, Galbavy W,
Gong H, Gou L, Hatfield JT, Hintiryan H, Hirokawa KE, Kim G, Kramer DJ, Li A, Li 
X, Luo Q, Muñoz-Castañeda R, Stafford DA, Feng Z, Jia X, Jiang S, Jiang T, Kuang 
X, Larsen R, Lesnar P, Li Y, Li Y, Liu L, Peng H, Qu L, Ren M, Ruan Z, Shen E,
Song Y, Wakeman W, Wang P, Wang Y, Wang Y, Yin L, Yuan J, Zhao S, Zhao X,
Narasimhan A, Palaniswamy R, Banerjee S, Ding L, Huilgol D, Huo B, Kuo HC,
Laturnus S, Li X, Mitra PP, Mizrachi J, Wang Q, Xie P, Xiong F, Yu Y, Eichhorn
SW, Berg J, Bernabucci M, Bernaerts Y, Cadwell CR, Castro JR, Dalley R, Hartmanis
L, Horwitz GD, Jiang X, Ko AL, Miranda E, Mulherkar S, Nicovich PR, Owen SF,
Sandberg R, Sorensen SA, Tan ZH, Allen S, Hockemeyer D, Lee AY, Veldman MB,
Adkins RS, Ament SA, Bravo HC, Carter R, Chatterjee A, Colantuoni C, Crabtree J, 
Creasy H, Felix V, Giglio M, Herb BR, Kancherla J, Mahurkar A, McCracken C,
Nickel L, Olley D, Orvis J, Schor M, Hood G, Dichter B, Grauer M, Helba B,
Bandrowski A, Barkas N, Carlin B, D'Orazi FD, Degatano K, Gillespie TH, Khajouei 
F, Konwar K, Thompson C, Kelly K, Mok S, Sunkin S.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2022 Jan;23(1):1.

Here we report the generation of a multimodal cell census and atlas of the
mammalian primary motor cortex as the initial product of the BRAIN Initiative
Cell Census Network (BICCN). This was achieved by coordinated large-scale
analyses of single-cell transcriptomes, chromatin accessibility, DNA methylomes, 
spatially resolved single-cell transcriptomes, morphological and
electrophysiological properties and cellular resolution input-output mapping,
integrated through cross-modal computational analysis. Our results advance the
collective knowledge and understanding of brain cell-type organization1-5. First,
our study reveals a unified molecular genetic landscape of cortical cell types
that integrates their transcriptome, open chromatin and DNA methylation maps.
Second, cross-species analysis achieves a consensus taxonomy of transcriptomic
types and their hierarchical organization that is conserved from mouse to
marmoset and human. Third, in situ single-cell transcriptomics provides a
spatially resolved cell-type atlas of the motor cortex. Fourth, cross-modal
analysis provides compelling evidence for the transcriptomic, epigenomic and gene
regulatory basis of neuronal phenotypes such as their physiological and
anatomical properties, demonstrating the biological validity and genomic
underpinning of neuron types. We further present an extensive genetic toolset for
targeting glutamatergic neuron types towards linking their molecular and
developmental identity to their circuit function. Together, our results establish
a unifying and mechanistic framework of neuronal cell-type organization that
integrates multi-layered molecular genetic and spatial information with
multi-faceted phenotypic properties.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41586-021-03950-0 
PMCID: PMC8494634
PMID: 34616075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

