

660. J Acoust Soc Am. 2018 Jul;144(1):478. doi: 10.1121/1.5047743.

Automatic detection and classification of marmoset vocalizations using deep and
recurrent neural networks.

Zhang YJ(1), Huang JF(2), Gong N(2), Ling ZH(1), Hu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Engineering Laboratory for Speech and Language Information
Processing, University of Science and Technology of China, 443 Huangshan Road,
Hefei 230027, China.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, Chinese
Academy of Sciences (CAS) Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, Shanghai
Institutes for Biological Sciences, CAS, 320 Yueyang Road, Shanghai 200031,
China.

This paper investigates the methods to detect and classify marmoset vocalizations
automatically using a large data set of marmoset vocalizations and deep learning 
techniques. For vocalization detection, neural networks-based methods, including 
deep neural network (DNN) and recurrent neural network with long short-term
memory units, are designed and compared against a conventional rule-based
detection method. For vocalization classification, three different classification
algorithms are compared, including a support vector machine (SVM), DNN, and long 
short-term memory recurrent neural networks (LSTM-RNNs). A 1500-min audio data
set containing recordings from four pairs of marmoset twins and manual
annotations is employed for experiments. Two test sets are built according to
whether the test samples are produced by the marmosets in the training set (test 
set I) or not (test set II). Experimental results show that the LSTM-RNN-based
detection method outperformed others and achieved 0.92% and 1.67% frame error
rate on these two test sets. Furthermore, the deep learning models obtained
higher classification accuracy than the SVM model, which was 95.60% and 91.67% on
the two test sets, respectively.

DOI: 10.1121/1.5047743 
PMID: 30075670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


661. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2018 Oct;367(1):101-107. doi: 10.1124/jpet.118.250852. Epub
2018 Aug 1.

Binding Characteristics of Two Oxytocin Variants and Vasopressin at Oxytocin
Receptors from Four Primate Species with Different Social Behavior Patterns.

Taylor JH(1), Schulte NA(2), French JA(2), Toews ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychology (J.H.T., J.A.F.) and Biology (J.A.F.), Callitrichid 
Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska; and Department
of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience, University of Nebraska Medical
Center, Omaha, Nebraska (N.A.S., M.L.T.) mtoews@unmc.edu jhtaylor@unomaha.edu.
(2)Departments of Psychology (J.H.T., J.A.F.) and Biology (J.A.F.), Callitrichid 
Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska; and Department
of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience, University of Nebraska Medical
Center, Omaha, Nebraska (N.A.S., M.L.T.).

A clade of New World monkeys (NWMs) exhibits considerable diversity in both
oxytocin (OT) ligand and oxytocin receptor (OTR) structure. Most notable is the
variant Pro8-OT, with proline instead of leucine at the eighth position,
resulting in a rigid bend in the peptide backbone. A higher proportion of species
that express Pro8-OT also engage in biparental care and social monogamy. When
marmosets (genus Callithrix), a biparental and monogamous Pro8-OT NWM species,
are administered the ancestral Leu8-OT, there is no change in social behavior
compared with saline treatment. However, when Pro8-OT is administered, marmosets'
sociosexual and prosocial behaviors are altered. The studies here tested the
hypothesis that OTR binding affinities and OT-induced intracellular Ca2+
potencies would favor the native OT ligand in OTRs from four primate species,
each representing a unique combination of ancestral lineage, breeding system, and
native OT ligand: humans (Leu8-OT, monogamous, apes), macaques (Leu8-OT,
nonmonogamous, Old World monkey), marmosets (Pro8-OT, monogamous, NWM), and titi 
monkeys (Leu8-OT, monogamous, NWM). OTRs were expressed in immortalized Chinese
hamster ovary cells and tested for intact-cell binding affinities for Pro8-OT,
Leu8-OT, and arginine vasopressin (AVP), as well as intracellular Ca2+ signaling 
after stimulation with Pro8-OT, Leu8-OT, and AVP. Contrary to our hypothesis,
Pro8-OT bound at modestly higher affinities and stimulated calcium signaling at
modestly higher potencies compared with Leu8-OT in all four primate OTRs. Thus,
differences downstream from a ligand-receptor binding event are more likely to
explain the different behavioral responses to these two ligands.

Copyright Â© 2018 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.118.250852 
PMCID: PMC7250472
PMID: 30068728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

