

661. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2018 Oct;367(1):101-107. doi: 10.1124/jpet.118.250852. Epub
2018 Aug 1.

Binding Characteristics of Two Oxytocin Variants and Vasopressin at Oxytocin
Receptors from Four Primate Species with Different Social Behavior Patterns.

Taylor JH(1), Schulte NA(2), French JA(2), Toews ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychology (J.H.T., J.A.F.) and Biology (J.A.F.), Callitrichid 
Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska; and Department
of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience, University of Nebraska Medical
Center, Omaha, Nebraska (N.A.S., M.L.T.) mtoews@unmc.edu jhtaylor@unomaha.edu.
(2)Departments of Psychology (J.H.T., J.A.F.) and Biology (J.A.F.), Callitrichid 
Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska; and Department
of Pharmacology and Experimental Neuroscience, University of Nebraska Medical
Center, Omaha, Nebraska (N.A.S., M.L.T.).

A clade of New World monkeys (NWMs) exhibits considerable diversity in both
oxytocin (OT) ligand and oxytocin receptor (OTR) structure. Most notable is the
variant Pro8-OT, with proline instead of leucine at the eighth position,
resulting in a rigid bend in the peptide backbone. A higher proportion of species
that express Pro8-OT also engage in biparental care and social monogamy. When
marmosets (genus Callithrix), a biparental and monogamous Pro8-OT NWM species,
are administered the ancestral Leu8-OT, there is no change in social behavior
compared with saline treatment. However, when Pro8-OT is administered, marmosets'
sociosexual and prosocial behaviors are altered. The studies here tested the
hypothesis that OTR binding affinities and OT-induced intracellular Ca2+
potencies would favor the native OT ligand in OTRs from four primate species,
each representing a unique combination of ancestral lineage, breeding system, and
native OT ligand: humans (Leu8-OT, monogamous, apes), macaques (Leu8-OT,
nonmonogamous, Old World monkey), marmosets (Pro8-OT, monogamous, NWM), and titi 
monkeys (Leu8-OT, monogamous, NWM). OTRs were expressed in immortalized Chinese
hamster ovary cells and tested for intact-cell binding affinities for Pro8-OT,
Leu8-OT, and arginine vasopressin (AVP), as well as intracellular Ca2+ signaling 
after stimulation with Pro8-OT, Leu8-OT, and AVP. Contrary to our hypothesis,
Pro8-OT bound at modestly higher affinities and stimulated calcium signaling at
modestly higher potencies compared with Leu8-OT in all four primate OTRs. Thus,
differences downstream from a ligand-receptor binding event are more likely to
explain the different behavioral responses to these two ligands.

Copyright © 2018 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.118.250852 
PMCID: PMC7250472
PMID: 30068728  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Physiol Behav. 2018 Oct 15;195:112-117. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2018.07.027. Epub 
2018 Jul 29.

Natural predator and a human stimulus differently affect the behavior, cortisol
and cerebral hemisphere activity of marmoset monkeys.

Pereira LC(1), Duarte RB(1), Maior RS(2), Barros M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, Brasilia,
Brazil.
(2)Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, Brasilia,
Brazil; Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.
(3)Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, Brasilia,
Brazil; Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of
Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil. Electronic address: mbarros@unb.br.

The behavior, cortisol concentration and cerebral hemisphere activity of twelve
marmoset monkeys were determined during standardized predatory stress-related
events. Each subject was submitted to three 5-min trials, randomly held at 2-week
intervals: a human intruder, a taxidermized oncilla cat and a no-stimulus control
trial. Stimuli were positioned outside the home-cage and the ensuing reaction
recorded. Baseline tympanic membrane temperature (TMT) was subtracted from the
post-trial measure to determine changes in blood flow induced by ipsilateral
brain activity. Cortisol was assayed immediately after the post-trial TMT
assessments. Both genders reacted fearfully/anxiously towards the stimuli - each 
condition inducing a distinct pattern. Cortisol increased only when females were 
confronted with the wildcat, with higher levels of alarm calls predicting lower
cortisol release. When either stimulus was present, changes in TMT were detected,
albeit only in the right ear. The specific directional shift in temperature was
gender- and stimulus-dependent, requiring further investigation. The control
trial did not alter any of the parameters. Marmosets thus exhibit flexible
multileveled coping strategies towards different aversive events, yet in general 
these seem to be asymmetrically processed by the right cerebral hemisphere.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2018.07.027 
PMID: 30063904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

