

669. Comp Med. 2018 Aug 1;68(4):314-318. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-17-000128. Epub 2018
Jul 16.

Lung Lobe Torsion in an Adult Male Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Winn CB(1), Artim SC(1), Jamiel MS(1), Burns MA(1), Haupt JL(1), Fox JG(1),
Muthupalani S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. smuthu01@mit.edu.

A 6-y-old, intact, pair-housed male common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
presented with acute onset dyspnea and tachypnea immediately after sedation with 
alfaxalone; a history of gradual weight loss initiated the examination under
sedation. Thoracic radiographs revealed significant right-lung consolidation,
with a vesicular gas pattern in the right caudodorsal lung field, pleural
effusion, and dorsal displacement of the heart. The marmoset was euthanized due
to his unstable condition and poor prognosis. At necropsy, the cranial and middle
lobes of the right lung were homogenously dark red-brown, enlarged, edematous,
and twisted around the longitudinal axis at the hilus. The left lung lobes were
pale pink and slightly edematous. In light of the clinical and gross necropsy
findings, acute torsion of the right cranial and middle lung lobes was diagnosed.
Predisposing conditions for lung lobe torsion include trauma, neoplasia,
pulmonary disease, previous thoracic surgery, and diaphragmatic hernia, but none 
of these applied to this case. Initial therapy for lung lobe torsion is to
stabilize the patient and treat for underlying conditions, with prompt surgical
resection as the treatment of choice. To our knowledge, this report is the first 
description of lung lobe torsion in an experimentally unmanipulated New World
NHP.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-17-000128 
PMCID: PMC6103417
PMID: 30012239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. IEEE Trans Med Imaging. 2019 Jan;38(1):69-78. doi: 10.1109/TMI.2018.2855736. Epub
2018 Jul 13.

PAT-Probabilistic Axon Tracking for Densely Labeled Neurons in Large 3-D
Micrographs.

Skibbe H, Reisert M, Nakae K, Watakabe A, Hata J, Mizukami H, Okano H, Yamamori
T, Ishii S.

A major goal of contemporary neuroscience research is to map the structural
connectivity of mammalian brain using microscopy imaging data. In this context,
the reconstruction of densely labeled axons from two-photon microscopy images is 
a challenging and important task. The visually overlapping, crossing, and often
strongly distorted images of the axons allow many ambiguous interpretations to be
made. We address the problem of tracking axons in densely labeled samples of
neurons in large image data sets acquired from marmoset brains. Our
high-resolution images were acquired using two-photon microscopy and they
provided whole brain coverage, occupying terabytes of memory. Both the image
distortions and the large data set size frequently make it impractical to apply
present-day neuron tracing algorithms to such data due to the optimization of
such algorithms to the precise tracing of either single or sparse sets of
neurons. Thus, new tracking techniques are needed. We propose a probabilistic
axon tracking algorithm (PAT). PAT tackles the tracking of axons in two steps:
locally (L-PAT) and globally (G-PAT). L-PAT is a probabilistic tracking algorithm
that can tackle distorted, cluttered images of densely labeled axons. L-PAT
divides a large micrograph into smaller image stacks. It then processes each
image stack independently before mapping the axons in each image to a sparse
model of axon trajectories. G-PAT merges the sparse L-PAT models into a single
global model of axon trajectories by minimizing a global objective function using
a probabilistic optimization method. We demonstrate the superior performance of
PAT over standard approaches on synthetic data. Furthermore, we successfully
apply PAT to densely labeled axons in large images acquired from marmoset brains.

DOI: 10.1109/TMI.2018.2855736 
PMID: 30010551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

