

671. J Virol. 2018 Sep 12;92(19). pii: e00359-18. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00359-18. Print
2018 Oct 1.

Cell-Derived Viral Genes Evolve under Stronger Purifying Selection in
Rhadinoviruses.

Aswad A(1), Katzourakis A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Zoology Department, University of Oxford, Oxford, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Zoology Department, University of Oxford, Oxford, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom 
aris.katzourakis@zoo.ox.ac.uk.

Like many other large double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) viruses, herpesviruses are
known to capture host genes to evade host defenses. Little is known about the
detailed natural history of such genes, nor do we fully understand their
evolutionary dynamics. A major obstacle is that they are often highly divergent, 
maintaining very low sequence similarity to host homologs. Here we use the
herpesvirus genus Rhadinovirus as a model system to develop an analytical
approach that combines complementary evolutionary and bioinformatic techniques,
offering results that are both detailed and robust for a range of genes. Using a 
systematic phylogenetic strategy, we identify the original host lineage of viral 
genes with high confidence. We show that although host immunomodulatory genes
evolve rapidly compared to other host genes, they undergo a clear increase in
purifying selection once captured by a virus. To characterize this shift in
detail, we developed a novel technique to identify changes in selection pressure 
that can be attributable to particular domains. These findings will inform us on 
how viruses develop strategies to evade the immune system, and our synthesis of
techniques can be reapplied to other viruses or biological systems with similar
analytical challenges.IMPORTANCE Viruses and hosts have been shown to capture
genes from one another as part of the evolutionary arms race. Such genes offer a 
natural experiment on the effects of evolutionary pressure, since the same gene
exists in vastly different selective environments. However, sequences of viral
homologs often bear little similarity to the original sequence, complicating the 
reconstruction of their shared evolutionary history with host counterparts. In
this study, we use a genus of herpesviruses as a model system to comprehensively 
investigate the evolution of host-derived viral genes, using a synthesis of
genomics, phylogenetics, selection analysis, and nucleotide and amino acid
modeling.

Copyright Â© 2018 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00359-18 
PMCID: PMC6146799
PMID: 29997213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Sci Rep. 2018 Jul 6;8(1):10255. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-28112-7.

Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) personality, subjective well-being, hair
cortisol level and AVPR1a, OPRM1, and DAT genotypes.

Inoue-Murayama M(1)(2), Yokoyama C(3), Yamanashi Y(1)(4), Weiss A(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Wildlife Research Center of Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Wildlife Genome Collaborative Research Group, National Institute for
Environmental Studies, Tsukuba, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Brain Connectomics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Biosystems
Dynamics Research, Kobe, Japan.
(4)Center for Research and Education of Wildlife, Kyoto City Zoo, Kyoto, Japan.
(5)School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences, Department of
Psychology, The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
alex.weiss@ed.ac.uk.
(6)Scottish Primate Research Group, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
alex.weiss@ed.ac.uk.

We studied personality, subjective well-being, and hair cortisol level, in common
marmosets Callithrix jacchus, a small, cooperatively breeding New World monkey,
by examining their associations with one another and genotypes. Subjects were 68 
males and 9 females that lived in the RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies.
Personality and subjective well-being were assessed by keeper ratings on two
questionnaires, hair samples were obtained to assay cortisol level and buccal
swabs were used to assess AVPR1a, OPRM1 and DAT genotypes. Three personality
domains-Dominance, Sociability, and Neuroticism-were identified. Consistent with 
findings in other species, Sociability and Neuroticism were related to higher and
lower subjective well-being, respectively. Sociability was also associated with
higher hair cortisol levels. The personality domains and hair cortisol levels
were heritable and associated with genotypes: the short form of AVPR1a was
associated with lower Neuroticism and the AA genotype of the A111T SNP of OPRM1
was related to lower Dominance, lower Neuroticism, and higher hair cortisol
level. Some genetic associations were not in directions that one would expect
given findings in other species. These findings provide insights into the
proximate and ultimate bases of personality in common marmosets, other primates
and humans.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-28112-7 
PMCID: PMC6035208
PMID: 29980755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

