

676. Nat Commun. 2018 Jun 29;9(1):2540. doi: 10.1038/s41467-018-04961-8.

Auditory cortical activity drives feedback-dependent vocal control in marmosets.

Eliades SJ(1), Tsunada J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Auditory and Communication Systems Laboratory, Department of
Otorhinolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery, University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. seliades@med.upenn.edu.
(2)Auditory and Communication Systems Laboratory, Department of
Otorhinolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery, University of Pennsylvania Perelman
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.

Vocal communication is a sensory-motor process requiring auditory self-monitoring
to correct errors and to ensure accurate vocal production. When presented with
altered speech feedback, humans rapidly change their speech to compensate.
Although previous evidence has demonstrated suppression of auditory cortex during
both speech and animal vocalization, the specific role of auditory cortex in such
feedback-dependent control is unknown. Here we show the relationship between
neural activity in the auditory cortex and feedback-dependent vocal control in
marmoset monkeys. We demonstrate that marmosets, like humans, exhibit feedback
control of vocal acoustics. We further show that feedback-sensitive activity of
auditory cortex neurons predict such compensatory vocal changes. Finally, we
demonstrate that electrical microstimulation of auditory cortex rapidly evokes
similar changes in vocal production. These results are evidence for a causal role
of auditory cortex in vocal self-monitoring and feedback-dependent control, and
have implications for understanding human speech motor control.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-04961-8 
PMCID: PMC6026141
PMID: 29959315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Animals (Basel). 2018 Jun 21;8(7). pii: E99. doi: 10.3390/ani8070099.

Food Calls in Common Marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, and Evidence That One Is
Functionally Referential.

Rogers LJ(1), Stewart L(2), Kaplan G(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Science and Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2531, Australia. lrogers@une.edu.au.
(2)School of Science and Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2531, Australia. leanne.stewart27@gmail.com.
(3)School of Science and Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2531, Australia. gkaplan@une.edu.au.

We studied three calls of common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, elicited in the
context of food. Call A, but not B or C, had been described previously as a food 
call. We presented insects (live mealworms or crickets) and fruit (banana or
blueberries) and used playbacks of calls. We found that Call C was produced only 
in response to seeing insects, and not fruit; it consistently signaled the
availability of insects (includes mealworms), and more so when this food could be
seen but not consumed. Playback of Call C caused the marmosets to stop feeding on
a less preferred food (banana) and, instead, go to inspect a location where
mealworms had been found previously, providing evidence that it has referential
meaning. No such immediate response was elicited on hearing Call A or background 
noise. Call A differed from C in that it was produced more frequently when the
marmosets were consuming the food than when they could only see it, and call A
showed no specificity between insects and fruit. Call B was emitted less
frequently than the A or C calls and, by the marmosets that were tested alone,
most often to crickets. An audience effect occurred, in that all three calls were
emitted more often when the marmosets were tested alone than when in pairs.
Recognition of the functional significance of marmoset calls can lead to improved
husbandry of marmosets in captivity.

DOI: 10.3390/ani8070099 
PMCID: PMC6070944
PMID: 29933611 

