

677. Animals (Basel). 2018 Jun 21;8(7). pii: E99. doi: 10.3390/ani8070099.

Food Calls in Common Marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, and Evidence That One Is
Functionally Referential.

Rogers LJ(1), Stewart L(2), Kaplan G(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Science and Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2531, Australia. lrogers@une.edu.au.
(2)School of Science and Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2531, Australia. leanne.stewart27@gmail.com.
(3)School of Science and Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2531, Australia. gkaplan@une.edu.au.

We studied three calls of common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, elicited in the
context of food. Call A, but not B or C, had been described previously as a food 
call. We presented insects (live mealworms or crickets) and fruit (banana or
blueberries) and used playbacks of calls. We found that Call C was produced only 
in response to seeing insects, and not fruit; it consistently signaled the
availability of insects (includes mealworms), and more so when this food could be
seen but not consumed. Playback of Call C caused the marmosets to stop feeding on
a less preferred food (banana) and, instead, go to inspect a location where
mealworms had been found previously, providing evidence that it has referential
meaning. No such immediate response was elicited on hearing Call A or background 
noise. Call A differed from C in that it was produced more frequently when the
marmosets were consuming the food than when they could only see it, and call A
showed no specificity between insects and fruit. Call B was emitted less
frequently than the A or C calls and, by the marmosets that were tested alone,
most often to crickets. An audience effect occurred, in that all three calls were
emitted more often when the marmosets were tested alone than when in pairs.
Recognition of the functional significance of marmoset calls can lead to improved
husbandry of marmosets in captivity.

DOI: 10.3390/ani8070099 
PMCID: PMC6070944
PMID: 29933611 


678. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2018 Jun 21;12(6):e0006581. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0006581. eCollection 2018 Jun.

Intranasal monkeypox marmoset model: Prophylactic antibody treatment provides
benefit against severe monkeypox virus disease.

Mucker EM(1), Wollen-Roberts SE(1), Kimmel A(1), Shamblin J(1), Sampey D(2),
Hooper JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, Virology
Division, Fort Detrick Maryland, United States of America.
(2)BioFactura, Inc, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America.

Concerns regarding outbreaks of human monkeypox or the potential reintroduction
of smallpox into an immunological na√Øve population have prompted the development 
of animal models and countermeasures. Here we present a marmoset model of
monkeypox and smallpox disease utilizing a relevant poxvirus via a natural
exposure route. We found that 1000 plaque forming units (PFU) of Monkeypox virus 
was sufficient to recapitulate smallpox disease, to include an incubation period 
of approximately 13 days, followed by the onset of rash, and death between 15 and
17 days. Temporally accurate manifestation of viremia and oral shedding were also
features. The number of lesions ranged from no lesions to 299, the most reported 
in a marmoset exposed to a poxvirus. To both evaluate the efficacy of our
antibodies and the applicability of the model system, marmosets were
prophylactically treated with two monoclonal antibodies, c7D11 and c8A. Of three 
marmosets, two were completely free of disease and a single marmoset died 8 days 
after the mock (n = 1) or PBS control(s) (n = 2). Evaluation of the serum levels 
of the three animals provided a possible explanation to the animal succumbing to 
disease. Interestingly, more females had lesions (and a greater number of
lesions) and lower viral burden (viremia and oral shedding) than males in our
studies, suggesting a possible gender effect.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0006581 
PMCID: PMC6029809
PMID: 29927927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JWH is an inventor on a patent related to
monoclonal antibody c7d11. DS is employed by Biofactura Inc., a company that has 
licensing rights related to the monoclonal antibodies used in this study. No
other competing interests exist.

