

678. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2018 Jun 21;12(6):e0006581. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0006581. eCollection 2018 Jun.

Intranasal monkeypox marmoset model: Prophylactic antibody treatment provides
benefit against severe monkeypox virus disease.

Mucker EM(1), Wollen-Roberts SE(1), Kimmel A(1), Shamblin J(1), Sampey D(2),
Hooper JW(1).

Author information: 
(1)United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, Virology
Division, Fort Detrick Maryland, United States of America.
(2)BioFactura, Inc, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America.

Concerns regarding outbreaks of human monkeypox or the potential reintroduction
of smallpox into an immunological naïve population have prompted the development 
of animal models and countermeasures. Here we present a marmoset model of
monkeypox and smallpox disease utilizing a relevant poxvirus via a natural
exposure route. We found that 1000 plaque forming units (PFU) of Monkeypox virus 
was sufficient to recapitulate smallpox disease, to include an incubation period 
of approximately 13 days, followed by the onset of rash, and death between 15 and
17 days. Temporally accurate manifestation of viremia and oral shedding were also
features. The number of lesions ranged from no lesions to 299, the most reported 
in a marmoset exposed to a poxvirus. To both evaluate the efficacy of our
antibodies and the applicability of the model system, marmosets were
prophylactically treated with two monoclonal antibodies, c7D11 and c8A. Of three 
marmosets, two were completely free of disease and a single marmoset died 8 days 
after the mock (n = 1) or PBS control(s) (n = 2). Evaluation of the serum levels 
of the three animals provided a possible explanation to the animal succumbing to 
disease. Interestingly, more females had lesions (and a greater number of
lesions) and lower viral burden (viremia and oral shedding) than males in our
studies, suggesting a possible gender effect.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0006581 
PMCID: PMC6029809
PMID: 29927927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JWH is an inventor on a patent related to
monoclonal antibody c7d11. DS is employed by Biofactura Inc., a company that has 
licensing rights related to the monoclonal antibodies used in this study. No
other competing interests exist.


679. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 18;13(6):e0199200. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199200.
eCollection 2018.

Characterisation of the hepatitis B virus cross-species transmission pattern via 
Na+/taurocholate co-transporting polypeptides from 11 New World and Old World
primate species.

Müller SF(1), König A(2), Döring B(1), Glebe D(2), Geyer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Biomedical Research Center
Seltersberg, Justus Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Medical Virology, Biomedical Research Center Seltersberg, Justus 
Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany.

The hepatic Na+/taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP in man, Ntcp in
animals) is the high-affinity receptor for the hepatitis B (HBV) and hepatitis D 
(HDV) viruses. Species barriers for human HBV/HDV within the order Primates were 
previously attributed to Ntcp sequence variations that disable virus-receptor
interaction. However, only a limited number of primate Ntcps have been analysed
so far. In the present study, a total of 11 Ntcps from apes, Old and New World
monkeys were cloned and expressed in vitro to characterise their interaction with
HBV and HDV. All Ntcps showed intact bile salt transport. Human NTCP as well as
the Ntcps from the great apes chimpanzee and orangutan showed transport-competing
binding of HBV derived myr-preS1-peptides. In contrast, all six Ntcps from the
group of Old World monkeys were insensitive to HBV myr-preS1-peptide binding and 
HBV/HDV infection. This is basically predetermined by the amino acid arginine at 
position 158 of all studied Old World monkey Ntcps. An exchange from arginine to 
glycine (as present in humans and great apes) at this position (R158G) alone was 
sufficient to achieve full transport-competing HBV myr-preS1-peptide binding and 
susceptibility for HBV/HDV infection. New World monkey Ntcps showed higher
sequence heterogeneity, but in two cases with 158G showed transport-competing HBV
myr-preS1-peptide binding, and in one case (Saimiri sciureus) even susceptibility
for HBV/HDV infection. In conclusion, amino acid position 158 of NTCP/Ntcp is
sufficient to discriminate between the HBV/HDV susceptible group of humans and
great apes (158G) and the non-susceptible group of Old World monkeys (158R). In
the case of the phylogenetically more distant New World monkey Ntcps amino acid
158 plays a significant, but not exclusive role.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199200 
PMCID: PMC6005513
PMID: 29912972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

