

679. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 18;13(6):e0199200. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199200.
eCollection 2018.

Characterisation of the hepatitis B virus cross-species transmission pattern via 
Na+/taurocholate co-transporting polypeptides from 11 New World and Old World
primate species.

Müller SF(1), König A(2), Döring B(1), Glebe D(2), Geyer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Biomedical Research Center
Seltersberg, Justus Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Medical Virology, Biomedical Research Center Seltersberg, Justus 
Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany.

The hepatic Na+/taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP in man, Ntcp in
animals) is the high-affinity receptor for the hepatitis B (HBV) and hepatitis D 
(HDV) viruses. Species barriers for human HBV/HDV within the order Primates were 
previously attributed to Ntcp sequence variations that disable virus-receptor
interaction. However, only a limited number of primate Ntcps have been analysed
so far. In the present study, a total of 11 Ntcps from apes, Old and New World
monkeys were cloned and expressed in vitro to characterise their interaction with
HBV and HDV. All Ntcps showed intact bile salt transport. Human NTCP as well as
the Ntcps from the great apes chimpanzee and orangutan showed transport-competing
binding of HBV derived myr-preS1-peptides. In contrast, all six Ntcps from the
group of Old World monkeys were insensitive to HBV myr-preS1-peptide binding and 
HBV/HDV infection. This is basically predetermined by the amino acid arginine at 
position 158 of all studied Old World monkey Ntcps. An exchange from arginine to 
glycine (as present in humans and great apes) at this position (R158G) alone was 
sufficient to achieve full transport-competing HBV myr-preS1-peptide binding and 
susceptibility for HBV/HDV infection. New World monkey Ntcps showed higher
sequence heterogeneity, but in two cases with 158G showed transport-competing HBV
myr-preS1-peptide binding, and in one case (Saimiri sciureus) even susceptibility
for HBV/HDV infection. In conclusion, amino acid position 158 of NTCP/Ntcp is
sufficient to discriminate between the HBV/HDV susceptible group of humans and
great apes (158G) and the non-susceptible group of Old World monkeys (158R). In
the case of the phylogenetically more distant New World monkey Ntcps amino acid
158 plays a significant, but not exclusive role.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199200 
PMCID: PMC6005513
PMID: 29912972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


680. Microb Genom. 2018 Jun;4(6). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000183. Epub 2018 Jun 15.

The comparative genomics of Bifidobacterium callitrichos reflects dietary
carbohydrate utilization within the common marmoset gut.

Albert K(1)(2), Rani A(1), Sela DA(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)1​Department of Food Science, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.
(2)2​Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA.
(3)3​Department of Microbiology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.
(4)4​Department of Microbiology and Physiological Systems, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, USA.

Bifidobacterium is a diverse genus of anaerobic, saccharolytic bacteria that
colonize many animals, notably humans and other mammals. The presence of these
bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract represents a potential coevolution between
the gut microbiome and its mammalian host mediated by diet. To study the
relationship between bifidobacterial gut symbionts and host nutrition, we
analyzed the genome of two bifidobacteria strains isolated from the feces of a
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a primate species studied for its ability
to subsist on host-indigestible carbohydrates. Whole genome sequencing identified
these isolates as unique strains of Bifidobacterium callitrichos. All three
strains, including these isolates and the previously described type strain,
contain genes that may enable utilization of marmoset dietary substrates. These
include genes predicted to contribute to galactose, arabinose, and trehalose
metabolic pathways. In addition, significant genomic differences between strains 
suggest that bifidobacteria possess distinct roles in carbohydrate metabolism
within the same host. Thus, bifidobacteria utilize dietary components specific to
their host, both humans and non-human primates alike. Comparative genomics
suggests conservation of possible coevolutionary relationships within the primate
clade.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000183 
PMCID: PMC6096940
PMID: 29906260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

