

680. Microb Genom. 2018 Jun;4(6). doi: 10.1099/mgen.0.000183. Epub 2018 Jun 15.

The comparative genomics of Bifidobacterium callitrichos reflects dietary
carbohydrate utilization within the common marmoset gut.

Albert K(1)(2), Rani A(1), Sela DA(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)1​Department of Food Science, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.
(2)2​Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA, USA.
(3)3​Department of Microbiology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.
(4)4​Department of Microbiology and Physiological Systems, University of
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA, USA.

Bifidobacterium is a diverse genus of anaerobic, saccharolytic bacteria that
colonize many animals, notably humans and other mammals. The presence of these
bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract represents a potential coevolution between
the gut microbiome and its mammalian host mediated by diet. To study the
relationship between bifidobacterial gut symbionts and host nutrition, we
analyzed the genome of two bifidobacteria strains isolated from the feces of a
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a primate species studied for its ability
to subsist on host-indigestible carbohydrates. Whole genome sequencing identified
these isolates as unique strains of Bifidobacterium callitrichos. All three
strains, including these isolates and the previously described type strain,
contain genes that may enable utilization of marmoset dietary substrates. These
include genes predicted to contribute to galactose, arabinose, and trehalose
metabolic pathways. In addition, significant genomic differences between strains 
suggest that bifidobacteria possess distinct roles in carbohydrate metabolism
within the same host. Thus, bifidobacteria utilize dietary components specific to
their host, both humans and non-human primates alike. Comparative genomics
suggests conservation of possible coevolutionary relationships within the primate
clade.

DOI: 10.1099/mgen.0.000183 
PMCID: PMC6096940
PMID: 29906260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Nat Commun. 2018 Jun 11;9(1):2281. doi: 10.1038/s41467-018-04500-5.

Top-down feedback controls spatial summation and response amplitude in primate
visual cortex.

Nurminen L(1), Merlin S(1)(2), Bijanzadeh M(1)(3), Federer F(1), Angelucci A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Moran Eye Institute,
University of Utah, 65 Mario Capecchi Drive, Salt Lake City, UT, 84132, USA.
(2)Medical Science, School of Science and Health, Western Sydney University,
Campbelltown, NSW, 2560, Australia.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, UCSF, San Francisco, CA, 94143, USA.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Moran Eye Institute,
University of Utah, 65 Mario Capecchi Drive, Salt Lake City, UT, 84132, USA.
alessandra.angelucci@hsc.utah.edu.

Sensory information travels along feedforward connections through a hierarchy of 
cortical areas, which, in turn, send feedback connections to lower-order areas.
Feedback has been implicated in attention, expectation, and sensory context, but 
the mechanisms underlying these diverse feedback functions are unknown. Using
specific optogenetic inactivation of feedback connections from the secondary
visual area (V2), we show how feedback affects neural responses in the primate
primary visual cortex (V1). Reducing feedback activity increases V1 cells'
receptive field (RF) size, decreases their responses to stimuli confined to the
RF, and increases their responses to stimuli extending into the proximal
surround, therefore reducing surround suppression. Moreover, stronger reduction
of V2 feedback activity leads to progressive increase in RF size and decrease in 
response amplitude, an effect predicted by a recurrent network model. Our results
indicate that feedback modulates RF size, surround suppression and response
amplitude, similar to the modulatory effects of visual spatial attention.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-04500-5 
PMCID: PMC5995810
PMID: 29892057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

