

690. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2018 May 9;12(5):e0006474. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0006474.
eCollection 2018 May.

Attenuation and efficacy of live-attenuated Rift Valley fever virus vaccine
candidates in non-human primates.

Smith DR(1), Johnston SC(1), Piper A(1), Botto M(1), Donnelly G(1), Shamblin
J(1), Albariño CG(2), Hensley LE(1), Schmaljohn C(1), Nichol ST(2), Bird BH(2).

Author information: 
(1)United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases
(USAMRIID), Fort Detrick, MD, United States of America.
(2)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Viral Special Pathogens Branch,
Atlanta, GA, United States of America.

Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) is an important mosquito-borne veterinary and
human pathogen that has caused large outbreaks of severe disease throughout
Africa and the Arabian Peninsula. Currently, no licensed vaccine or therapeutics 
exists to treat this potentially deadly disease. The explosive nature of RVFV
outbreaks and the severe consequences of its accidental or intentional
introduction into RVFV-free areas provide the impetus for the development of
novel vaccine candidates for use in both livestock and humans. Rationally
designed vaccine candidates using reverse genetics have been used to develop
deletion mutants of two known RVFV virulence factors, the NSs and NSm genes.
These recombinant viruses were demonstrated to be protective and immunogenic in
rats, mice, and sheep, without producing clinical illness in these animals. Here,
we expand upon those findings and evaluate the single deletion mutant (ΔNSs
rRVFV) and double deletion mutant (ΔNSs-ΔNSm rRVFV) vaccine candidates in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a non-human primate (NHP) model resembling 
severe human RVF disease. We demonstrate that both the ΔNSs and ΔNSs-ΔNSm rRVFV
vaccine candidates were found to be safe and immunogenic in the current study.
The vaccinated animals received a single dose of vaccine that led to the
development of a robust antibody response. No vaccine-induced adverse reactions, 
signs of clinical illness or infectious virus were detected in the vaccinated
marmosets. All vaccinated animals that were subsequently challenged with RVFV
were protected against viremia and liver disease. In summary, our results provide
the basis for further development of the ΔNSs and ΔNSs-ΔNSm rRVFV as safe and
effective human RVFV vaccines for this significant public health threat.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0006474 
PMCID: PMC5962102
PMID: 29742102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


691. eNeuro. 2018 May 7;5(2). pii: ENEURO.0078-18.2018. doi:
10.1523/ENEURO.0078-18.2018. eCollection 2018 Mar-Apr.

Sound Frequency Representation in the Auditory Cortex of the Common Marmoset
Visualized Using Optical Intrinsic Signal Imaging.

Tani T(1)(2), Abe H(1)(2), Hayami T(2)(3), Banno T(2)(4), Miyakawa N(2)(5),
Kitamura N(1), Mashiko H(1), Ichinohe N(2)(1), Suzuki W(2)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher
Brain Functions, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(3)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Graduate School of Engineering, 
Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Koganei, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA 19104.
(5)Department of Functional Brain Imaging Research, National Institutes of
Quantum and Radiological Science and Technology, Chiba, Chiba 263-8555, Japan.

Natural sound is composed of various frequencies. Although the core region of the
primate auditory cortex has functionally defined sound frequency preference maps,
how the map is organized in the auditory areas of the belt and parabelt regions
is not well known. In this study, we investigated the functional organizations of
the core, belt, and parabelt regions encompassed by the lateral sulcus and the
superior temporal sulcus in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using
optical intrinsic signal imaging, we obtained evoked responses to band-pass noise
stimuli in a range of sound frequencies (0.5-16 kHz) in anesthetized adult
animals and visualized the preferred sound frequency map on the cortical surface.
We characterized the functionally defined organization using histologically
defined brain areas in the same animals. We found tonotopic representation of a
set of sound frequencies (low to high) within the primary (A1), rostral (R), and 
rostrotemporal (RT) areas of the core region. In the belt region, the tonotopic
representation existed only in the mediolateral (ML) area. This representation
was symmetric with that found in A1 along the border between areas A1 and ML. The
functional structure was not very clear in the anterolateral (AL) area. Low
frequencies were mainly preferred in the rostrotemplatal (RTL) area, while high
frequencies were preferred in the caudolateral (CL) area. There was a portion of 
the parabelt region that strongly responded to higher sound frequencies (>5.8
kHz) along the border between the rostral parabelt (RPB) and caudal parabelt
(CPB) regions.

DOI: 10.1523/ENEURO.0078-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC5937112
PMID: 29736410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

