

691. eNeuro. 2018 May 7;5(2). pii: ENEURO.0078-18.2018. doi:
10.1523/ENEURO.0078-18.2018. eCollection 2018 Mar-Apr.

Sound Frequency Representation in the Auditory Cortex of the Common Marmoset
Visualized Using Optical Intrinsic Signal Imaging.

Tani T(1)(2), Abe H(1)(2), Hayami T(2)(3), Banno T(2)(4), Miyakawa N(2)(5),
Kitamura N(1), Mashiko H(1), Ichinohe N(2)(1), Suzuki W(2)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher
Brain Functions, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(3)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Graduate School of Engineering, 
Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Koganei, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA 19104.
(5)Department of Functional Brain Imaging Research, National Institutes of
Quantum and Radiological Science and Technology, Chiba, Chiba 263-8555, Japan.

Natural sound is composed of various frequencies. Although the core region of the
primate auditory cortex has functionally defined sound frequency preference maps,
how the map is organized in the auditory areas of the belt and parabelt regions
is not well known. In this study, we investigated the functional organizations of
the core, belt, and parabelt regions encompassed by the lateral sulcus and the
superior temporal sulcus in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using
optical intrinsic signal imaging, we obtained evoked responses to band-pass noise
stimuli in a range of sound frequencies (0.5-16 kHz) in anesthetized adult
animals and visualized the preferred sound frequency map on the cortical surface.
We characterized the functionally defined organization using histologically
defined brain areas in the same animals. We found tonotopic representation of a
set of sound frequencies (low to high) within the primary (A1), rostral (R), and 
rostrotemporal (RT) areas of the core region. In the belt region, the tonotopic
representation existed only in the mediolateral (ML) area. This representation
was symmetric with that found in A1 along the border between areas A1 and ML. The
functional structure was not very clear in the anterolateral (AL) area. Low
frequencies were mainly preferred in the rostrotemplatal (RTL) area, while high
frequencies were preferred in the caudolateral (CL) area. There was a portion of 
the parabelt region that strongly responded to higher sound frequencies (>5.8
kHz) along the border between the rostral parabelt (RPB) and caudal parabelt
(CPB) regions.

DOI: 10.1523/ENEURO.0078-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC5937112
PMID: 29736410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Physiol Behav. 2018 Sep 1;193(Pt A):108-116. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2018.02.050. 
Epub 2018 May 2.

Why help? Relationship quality, not strategic grooming predicts infant-care in
group-living marmosets.

Finkenwirth C(1), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: christa.finkenwirth@uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Cooperatively breeding common marmosets raise their infants with the help of
other adult group members, but individual care-taking contribution can vary
considerably. We tested four hypotheses that may explain this variation within
marmoset family groups. The pay-for-help hypothesis argues that allogrooming is
used strategically by parents to pay helpers for helping. The
pay-for-infant-access hypothesis claims that helpers use allogrooming as payment 
for infant-access. The intrinsic predisposition hypothesis suggests that more
affiliative individuals are also more motivated for infant-care, and the
relationship quality hypothesis that individuals involved in highly affiliative
relationships with main caregivers contribute more to infant-care. To test these 
hypotheses, we followed five marmoset family groups over a total of eight
reproductive cycles, and quantified affiliative behavior, infant-carrying, and
food sharing over six to 12 weeks around infant-birth. We found no evidence for
either the pay-for-help or pay-for-infant-access hypotheses nor did intrinsic
prosocial predisposition determine individual infant-care. Mutual dyadic
affiliation, however, was positively linked to infant-carrying and food sharing
in female and male breeders and in male helpers. This suggests that cooperation
during infant-care is mediated by relationship quality rather than strategic
grooming in marmosets. Overall, these results may also contribute to a better
understanding of cooperation in humans.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2018.02.050 
PMID: 29730031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

