

701. Anaerobe. 2018 Jun;51:47-49. doi: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2018.03.013. Epub 2018 Apr
3.

Type C botulism in domestic chickens, dogs and black-pencilled marmoset
(Callithrix penicillata) in Minas Gerais, Brazil.

Silva ROS(1), Martins RA(2), Assis RA(2), Oliveira Junior CA(2), Lobato FCF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary College, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG), Antônio
Carlos Avenue, 6627. Belo Horizonte, MG, 31.270-901, Brazil. Electronic address: 
rodrigo.otaviosilva@gmail.com.
(2)Veterinary College, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG), Antônio
Carlos Avenue, 6627. Belo Horizonte, MG, 31.270-901, Brazil.

Botulism is a well-known intoxication that affects humans and animals. The
disease is endemic in cattle in Brazil and recently emerged as an important
disease in commercial laying hens and broiler chickens in Europe. Dogs and other 
animal species can also be affected. Although antitoxins are commonly
administered to humans diagnosed with botulism, in animals this is rarely the
case and the treatment of botulism is still based only on support therapy. In the
present work, we report an outbreak of type C botulism in Brazil that
simultaneously affected domestic chickens, dogs and a black-pencilled marmoset
(Callithrix penicillata). The successful use of Clostridium botulinum types C and
D antitoxin for the treatment of an affected dog is also described.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anaerobe.2018.03.013 
PMID: 29621603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Int J Mol Med. 2018 Jul;42(1):131-140. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2018.3610. Epub 2018 Apr
3.

Leukemia inhibitory factor regulates marmoset induced pluripotent stem cell
proliferation via a PI3K/‌Akt‑dependent Tbx‑3 activation pathway.

Ke M(1), He Q(1), Hong D(1), Li O(1), Zhu M(1), Ou WB(1), He Y(1), Wu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Life Science,
Zhejiang Sci‑Tech University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310018, P.R. China.

Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is the most pleiotropic cytokine of the
interleukin‑6 family, and is widely used to establish and maintain pluripotent
stem cells, particularly mouse pluripotent stem cells. However, no reports have
fully elucidated the application of LIF in marmoset induced pluripotent stem cell
(iPSC) culture, particularly the underlying mechanisms. To demonstrate the
feasibility of the application of LIF to marmoset iPSCs, the present study
assessed these cells in the presence of LIF. Cell proliferation was measured
using MTT assay, cell apoptosis was determined by flow cytometric analysis of
fluorescein isothiocyanate Annexin V staining and the differentially expressed
genes were analysed using Digital Gene Expression (DGE) analysis. The altered
expression of pluripotency‑associated genes was confirmed by reverse
transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis.
Furthermore, following treatment with LY294002, cell proliferation was measured
by MTT assay and protein levels were confirmed by western blot analysis. The
results showed that LIF significantly promoted the number of proliferating cells,
but had no effect on apoptosis. Digital Gene Expression analysis was used to
examine the differentially expressed genes of marmoset iPSCs in the presence of
LIF. The results showed that the pluripotency‑associated transcription
factor‑encoding gene T‑box 3 (Tbx‑3) was activated by LIF. Notably, LIF increased
the levels of phosphorylated (p‑)AKT and Tbx‑3 in the marmoset iPSCs.
Furthermore, pretreatment with LY294002, an inhibitor of phosphoinositide
3‑kinase (PI3K), significantly impaired the LIF‑induced upregulation of p‑AKT and
Tbx‑3 in the marmoset iPSCs, suggesting that the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway is
involved in this regulation. Taken together, the results suggested that LIF is
effective in maintaining marmoset iPSCs in cultures, which is associated with the
activation of Tbx‑3 through regulation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2018.3610 
PMCID: PMC5979829
PMID: 29620145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

