

702. Int J Mol Med. 2018 Jul;42(1):131-140. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2018.3610. Epub 2018 Apr
3.

Leukemia inhibitory factor regulates marmoset induced pluripotent stem cell
proliferation via a PI3K/‌Akt‑dependent Tbx‑3 activation pathway.

Ke M(1), He Q(1), Hong D(1), Li O(1), Zhu M(1), Ou WB(1), He Y(1), Wu Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Life Science,
Zhejiang Sci‑Tech University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310018, P.R. China.

Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is the most pleiotropic cytokine of the
interleukin‑6 family, and is widely used to establish and maintain pluripotent
stem cells, particularly mouse pluripotent stem cells. However, no reports have
fully elucidated the application of LIF in marmoset induced pluripotent stem cell
(iPSC) culture, particularly the underlying mechanisms. To demonstrate the
feasibility of the application of LIF to marmoset iPSCs, the present study
assessed these cells in the presence of LIF. Cell proliferation was measured
using MTT assay, cell apoptosis was determined by flow cytometric analysis of
fluorescein isothiocyanate Annexin V staining and the differentially expressed
genes were analysed using Digital Gene Expression (DGE) analysis. The altered
expression of pluripotency‑associated genes was confirmed by reverse
transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis.
Furthermore, following treatment with LY294002, cell proliferation was measured
by MTT assay and protein levels were confirmed by western blot analysis. The
results showed that LIF significantly promoted the number of proliferating cells,
but had no effect on apoptosis. Digital Gene Expression analysis was used to
examine the differentially expressed genes of marmoset iPSCs in the presence of
LIF. The results showed that the pluripotency‑associated transcription
factor‑encoding gene T‑box 3 (Tbx‑3) was activated by LIF. Notably, LIF increased
the levels of phosphorylated (p‑)AKT and Tbx‑3 in the marmoset iPSCs.
Furthermore, pretreatment with LY294002, an inhibitor of phosphoinositide
3‑kinase (PI3K), significantly impaired the LIF‑induced upregulation of p‑AKT and
Tbx‑3 in the marmoset iPSCs, suggesting that the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway is
involved in this regulation. Taken together, the results suggested that LIF is
effective in maintaining marmoset iPSCs in cultures, which is associated with the
activation of Tbx‑3 through regulation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2018.3610 
PMCID: PMC5979829
PMID: 29620145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Front Behav Neurosci. 2018 Mar 16;12:46. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2018.00046.
eCollection 2018.

A Method to Train Marmosets in Visual Working Memory Task and Their Performance.

Nakamura K(1), Koba R(1), Miwa M(1), Yamaguchi C(1), Suzuki H(1), Takemoto A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
Inuyama, Japan.

Learning and memory processes are similarly organized in humans and monkeys;
therefore, monkeys can be ideal models for analyzing human aging processes and
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. With the development of
novel gene modification methods, common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have been 
suggested as an animal model for neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, the
common marmoset's lifespan is relatively short, which makes it a practical animal
model for aging. Working memory deficits are a prominent symptom of both dementia
and aging, but no data are currently available for visual working memory in
common marmosets. The delayed matching-to-sample task is a powerful tool for
evaluating visual working memory in humans and monkeys; therefore, we developed a
novel procedure for training common marmosets in such a task. Using visual
discrimination and reversal tasks to direct the marmosets' attention to the
physical properties of visual stimuli, we successfully trained 11 out of 13
marmosets in the initial stage of the delayed matching-to-sample task and
provided the first available data on visual working memory in common marmosets.
We found that the marmosets required many trials to initially learn the task
(median: 1316 trials), but once the task was learned, the animals needed fewer
trials to learn the task with novel stimuli (476 trials or fewer, with the
exception of one marmoset). The marmosets could retain visual information for up 
to 16 s. Our novel training procedure could enable us to use the common marmoset 
as a useful non-human primate model for studying visual working memory deficits
in neurodegenerative diseases and aging.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2018.00046 
PMCID: PMC5864906
PMID: 29615876 

