

703. Front Behav Neurosci. 2018 Mar 16;12:46. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2018.00046.
eCollection 2018.

A Method to Train Marmosets in Visual Working Memory Task and Their Performance.

Nakamura K(1), Koba R(1), Miwa M(1), Yamaguchi C(1), Suzuki H(1), Takemoto A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
Inuyama, Japan.

Learning and memory processes are similarly organized in humans and monkeys;
therefore, monkeys can be ideal models for analyzing human aging processes and
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. With the development of
novel gene modification methods, common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have been 
suggested as an animal model for neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, the
common marmoset's lifespan is relatively short, which makes it a practical animal
model for aging. Working memory deficits are a prominent symptom of both dementia
and aging, but no data are currently available for visual working memory in
common marmosets. The delayed matching-to-sample task is a powerful tool for
evaluating visual working memory in humans and monkeys; therefore, we developed a
novel procedure for training common marmosets in such a task. Using visual
discrimination and reversal tasks to direct the marmosets' attention to the
physical properties of visual stimuli, we successfully trained 11 out of 13
marmosets in the initial stage of the delayed matching-to-sample task and
provided the first available data on visual working memory in common marmosets.
We found that the marmosets required many trials to initially learn the task
(median: 1316 trials), but once the task was learned, the animals needed fewer
trials to learn the task with novel stimuli (476 trials or fewer, with the
exception of one marmoset). The marmosets could retain visual information for up 
to 16 s. Our novel training procedure could enable us to use the common marmoset 
as a useful non-human primate model for studying visual working memory deficits
in neurodegenerative diseases and aging.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2018.00046 
PMCID: PMC5864906
PMID: 29615876 


704. PLoS One. 2018 Apr 3;13(4):e0195316. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195316.
eCollection 2018.

A novel calcimimetic agent, evocalcet (MT-4580/KHK7580), suppresses the
parathyroid cell function with little effect on the gastrointestinal tract or CYP
isozymes in vivo and in vitro.

Kawata T(1), Tokunaga S(1), Murai M(2), Masuda N(3), Haruyama W(1), Shoukei Y(2),
Hisada Y(4), Yanagida T(4), Miyazaki H(4), Wada M(5), Akizawa T(6), Fukagawa
M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Nephrology Research Laboratories, Nephrology R&D Unit, R&D Division, Kyowa
Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan.
(2)Research Core Function Laboratories, Research Functions Unit, R&D Division,
Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan.
(3)Takasaki Plant, Production Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Gunma,
Japan.
(4)Research Unit, Innovative Research Division, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma
Corporation., Kanagawa, Japan.
(5)Medical Affairs Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Showa University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Division of Nephrology, Endocrinology and Metabolism, Tokai University School 
of Medicine, Kanagawa, Japan.

Cinacalcet hydrochloride (cinacalcet), an oral calcimimetic agent has been widely
used for the management of secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) in chronic kidney
disease (CKD). In sharp contrast to vitamin D receptor activators, cinacalcet
suppresses SHPT without inducing hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia.
Nevertheless, some patients remain refractory to SHPT with this agent, as the
dose cannot be sufficiently increased due to gastrointestinal symptoms. In order 
to resolve this issue, we have developed a newly synthesized calcimimetic agent, 
evocalcet (MT-4580/KHK7580). In a rat model of CKD induced by 5/6 nephrectomy,
oral administration of evocalcet efficiently suppressed the secretion of
parathyroid hormone (PTH). With regard to the gastro-intestinal effects,
cinacalcet induced a significant delay in gastric emptying in rats, while
evocalcet did no marked effects on it. Evocalcet also demonstrated the less
induction of emesis compared to cinacalcet in common marmosets. The
pharmacological effects of evocalcet were observed at lower doses because of its 
higher bioavailability than cinacalcet, which may have contributed to the reduced
GI tract symptoms. In addition, evocalcet showed no substantial direct inhibition
of any CYP isozymes in in vitro liver microsome assay, suggesting a better
profile in drug interactions than cinacalcet that inhibits cytochrome P450 (CYP) 
2D6. These findings suggest that evocalcet can be a better alternative to
cinacalcet, an oral calcimimetic agent, with a wider safety margin.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195316 
PMCID: PMC5882164
PMID: 29614098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

