

704. PLoS One. 2018 Apr 3;13(4):e0195316. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195316.
eCollection 2018.

A novel calcimimetic agent, evocalcet (MT-4580/KHK7580), suppresses the
parathyroid cell function with little effect on the gastrointestinal tract or CYP
isozymes in vivo and in vitro.

Kawata T(1), Tokunaga S(1), Murai M(2), Masuda N(3), Haruyama W(1), Shoukei Y(2),
Hisada Y(4), Yanagida T(4), Miyazaki H(4), Wada M(5), Akizawa T(6), Fukagawa
M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Nephrology Research Laboratories, Nephrology R&D Unit, R&D Division, Kyowa
Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan.
(2)Research Core Function Laboratories, Research Functions Unit, R&D Division,
Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan.
(3)Takasaki Plant, Production Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Gunma,
Japan.
(4)Research Unit, Innovative Research Division, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma
Corporation., Kanagawa, Japan.
(5)Medical Affairs Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Showa University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Division of Nephrology, Endocrinology and Metabolism, Tokai University School 
of Medicine, Kanagawa, Japan.

Cinacalcet hydrochloride (cinacalcet), an oral calcimimetic agent has been widely
used for the management of secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) in chronic kidney
disease (CKD). In sharp contrast to vitamin D receptor activators, cinacalcet
suppresses SHPT without inducing hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia.
Nevertheless, some patients remain refractory to SHPT with this agent, as the
dose cannot be sufficiently increased due to gastrointestinal symptoms. In order 
to resolve this issue, we have developed a newly synthesized calcimimetic agent, 
evocalcet (MT-4580/KHK7580). In a rat model of CKD induced by 5/6 nephrectomy,
oral administration of evocalcet efficiently suppressed the secretion of
parathyroid hormone (PTH). With regard to the gastro-intestinal effects,
cinacalcet induced a significant delay in gastric emptying in rats, while
evocalcet did no marked effects on it. Evocalcet also demonstrated the less
induction of emesis compared to cinacalcet in common marmosets. The
pharmacological effects of evocalcet were observed at lower doses because of its 
higher bioavailability than cinacalcet, which may have contributed to the reduced
GI tract symptoms. In addition, evocalcet showed no substantial direct inhibition
of any CYP isozymes in in vitro liver microsome assay, suggesting a better
profile in drug interactions than cinacalcet that inhibits cytochrome P450 (CYP) 
2D6. These findings suggest that evocalcet can be a better alternative to
cinacalcet, an oral calcimimetic agent, with a wider safety margin.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195316 
PMCID: PMC5882164
PMID: 29614098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Physiol Genomics. 2018 Jun 1;50(6):425-439. doi:
10.1152/physiolgenomics.00030.2018. Epub 2018 Mar 30.

Similarity and variation in the insulin-like growth factor 2 - H19 locus in
primates.

Rotwein P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas
Tech Health University Health Sciences Center , El Paso, Texas.

Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), a small, secreted protein, is critical for
fetal and prenatal growth in humans and other mammals. The IGF2 gene and its
mouse homolog comprise part of a conserved linkage group that is regulated by
parental imprinting, with IGF2/ Igf2 being expressed from the paternal
chromosome, and the adjacent H19 gene from the maternal chromosome. By using
information extracted from public genomic and gene expression databases, I have
now analyzed this locus in nine nonhuman primate species representing over 60
million years of evolutionary divergence from a common progenitor. Both IGF2 and 
H19 genes and the entire locus have been conserved among these primates. Each
primate IGF2 gene except for gibbon and marmoset is composed of 10 exons and
contains five potential promoters, each with distinctive 5'-untranslated exons.
Similarly, except for marmoset and mouse lemur, H19 consists of six exons and has
two promoters. DNA sequence conservation is high, not only in orthologous exons
and promoters, but also in a putative imprinting control region located 5' to H19
and in multiple potential distal enhancer elements found 3' to H19. Collectively,
these results support the hypothesis that common regulatory processes shaped the 
IGF2 - H19 locus before the onset of primate speciation more than 85 million
years ago. This study also leads to the conclusion that inaccuracies in data
presentation in genetic repositories could limit our ability to develop novel
insights about roles of individual genes and multigene loci in mammalian
physiology and disease.

DOI: 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00030.2018 
PMCID: PMC6032289
PMID: 29602297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

