

705. Physiol Genomics. 2018 Jun 1;50(6):425-439. doi:
10.1152/physiolgenomics.00030.2018. Epub 2018 Mar 30.

Similarity and variation in the insulin-like growth factor 2 - H19 locus in
primates.

Rotwein P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas
Tech Health University Health Sciences Center , El Paso, Texas.

Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), a small, secreted protein, is critical for
fetal and prenatal growth in humans and other mammals. The IGF2 gene and its
mouse homolog comprise part of a conserved linkage group that is regulated by
parental imprinting, with IGF2/ Igf2 being expressed from the paternal
chromosome, and the adjacent H19 gene from the maternal chromosome. By using
information extracted from public genomic and gene expression databases, I have
now analyzed this locus in nine nonhuman primate species representing over 60
million years of evolutionary divergence from a common progenitor. Both IGF2 and 
H19 genes and the entire locus have been conserved among these primates. Each
primate IGF2 gene except for gibbon and marmoset is composed of 10 exons and
contains five potential promoters, each with distinctive 5'-untranslated exons.
Similarly, except for marmoset and mouse lemur, H19 consists of six exons and has
two promoters. DNA sequence conservation is high, not only in orthologous exons
and promoters, but also in a putative imprinting control region located 5' to H19
and in multiple potential distal enhancer elements found 3' to H19. Collectively,
these results support the hypothesis that common regulatory processes shaped the 
IGF2 - H19 locus before the onset of primate speciation more than 85 million
years ago. This study also leads to the conclusion that inaccuracies in data
presentation in genetic repositories could limit our ability to develop novel
insights about roles of individual genes and multigene loci in mammalian
physiology and disease.

DOI: 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00030.2018 
PMCID: PMC6032289
PMID: 29602297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Biol Lett. 2018 Mar;14(3). pii: 20180030. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2018.0030.

Reverse audience effects on helping in cooperatively breeding marmoset monkeys.

Brügger RK(1), Kappeler-Schmalzriedt T(2)(3), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057 Zürich, Switzerland rahelkatharina.bruegger@uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057 Zürich, Switzerland.
(3)Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics, University of Amsterdam,
Science Park 904, Amsterdam, GE 1090, The Netherlands.

Cooperatively breeding common marmosets show substantial variation in the amount 
of help they provide. Pay-to-stay and social prestige models of helping attribute
this variation to audience effects, i.e. that individuals help more if group
members can witness their interactions with immatures, whereas models of kin
selection, group augmentation or those stressing the need to gain parenting
experience do not predict any audience effects. We quantified the readiness of
adult marmosets to share food in the presence or absence of other group members. 
Contrary to both predictions, we found a reverse audience effect on food-sharing 
behaviour: marmosets would systematically share more food with immatures when no 
audience was present. Thus, helping in common marmosets, at least in related
family groups, does not support the pay-to-stay or the social prestige model, and
helpers do not take advantage of the opportunity to engage in reputation
management. Rather, the results appear to reflect a genuine concern for the
immatures' well-being, which seems particularly strong when solely responsible
for the immatures.

© 2018 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2018.0030 
PMCID: PMC5897615
PMID: 29593076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

