

708. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Apr 10;115(15):3978-3983. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1722426115. Epub 2018 Mar 26.

Internal states and extrinsic factors both determine monkey vocal production.

Liao DA(1), Zhang YS(1)(2), Cai LX(1), Ghazanfar AA(3)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
(2)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
(3)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544;
asifg@princeton.edu.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University,
Princeton, NJ 08544.

A key question for understanding speech evolution is whether or not the
vocalizations of our closest living relatives-nonhuman primates-represent the
precursors to speech. Some believe that primate vocalizations are not volitional 
but are instead inextricably linked to internal states like arousal and thus bear
little resemblance to human speech. Others disagree and believe that since many
primates can use their vocalizations strategically, this demonstrates a degree of
voluntary vocal control. In the current study, we present a behavioral paradigm
that reliably elicits different types of affiliative vocalizations from marmoset 
monkeys while measuring their heart rate fluctuations using noninvasive
electromyography. By modulating both the physical distance between marmosets and 
the sensory information available to them, we find that arousal levels are
linked, but not inextricably, to vocal production. Different arousal levels are, 
generally, associated with changes in vocal acoustics and the drive to produce
different call types. However, in contexts where marmosets are interacting, the
production of these different call types is also affected by extrinsic factors
such as the timing of a conspecific's vocalization. These findings suggest that
variability in vocal output as a function of context might reflect trade-offs
between the drive to perpetuate vocal contact and conserving energy.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1722426115 
PMCID: PMC5899479
PMID: 29581269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


709. J Med Primatol. 2018 Jun;47(3):205-208. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12341. Epub 2018 Mar 25.

Multicentric cutaneous keratoacanthomas in a free-living marmoset (Callithrix
sp.).

Díaz-Delgado J(1)(2), Sanches TC(3), Cirqueira CS(2), Coimbra AAC(3), Guerra
JM(2), Olivares V(3), Di Loretto C(2), Ressio RA(2), Iglezias S(2), Fernandes
NCCA(2), Kanamura C(2), Groch KR(1), Catão-Dias JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Patologia, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária e Zootecnia,
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Instituto Adolfo Lutz (IAL), Centro de Patologia, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Divisão Técnica de Medicina Veterinária e Manejo da Fauna Silvestre
(DEPAVE-3), Prefeitura do Municipio de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Cutaneous neoplasia is common in non-human primates. We describe the gross and
microscopic features of multicentric cutaneous keratoacanthomas in a free-living 
marmoset (Callithrix sp.). Immunohistochemistry for human papillomavirus and
herpes simplex virus type I and simplex virus type II was negative.
Keratoacanthomas should be included in the differential diagnosis for cutaneous
masses in non-human primates.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12341 
PMID: 29574930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

