

719. Anim Cogn. 2018 May;21(3):331-343. doi: 10.1007/s10071-018-1169-z. Epub 2018 Feb 
27.

Individual identity and affective valence in marmoset calls: in vivo brain
imaging with vocal sound playback.

Kato M(1)(2), Yokoyama C(3), Kawasaki A(4), Takeda C(4), Koike T(1), Onoe H(4),
Iriki A(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Research Development Section, Research Promotion Hub, Office for Enhancing
Institutional Capacity, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan.
(3)Division of Bio-Function Dynamics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Life Science
Technologies, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan. chihiro@riken.jp.
(4)Division of Bio-Function Dynamics Imaging, RIKEN Center for Life Science
Technologies, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan.
(5)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, Saitama, Japan. iriki@brain.riken.jp.
(6)RIKEN-NTU Research Centre for Human Biology, Lee Kong Chian School of
Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Singapore.
iriki@brain.riken.jp.

As with humans, vocal communication is an important social tool for nonhuman
primates. Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) often produce whistle-like 'phee'
calls when they are visually separated from conspecifics. The neural processes
specific to phee call perception, however, are largely unknown, despite the
possibility that these processes involve social information. Here, we examined
behavioral and whole-brain mapping evidence regarding the detection of individual
conspecific phee calls using an audio playback procedure. Phee calls evoked sound
exploratory responses when the caller changed, indicating that marmosets can
discriminate between caller identities. Positron emission tomography with [18F]
fluorodeoxyglucose revealed that perception of phee calls from a single subject
was associated with activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal, medial prefrontal,
orbitofrontal cortices, and the amygdala. These findings suggest that these
regions are implicated in cognitive and affective processing of salient social
information. However, phee calls from multiple subjects induced brain activation 
in only some of these regions, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. We
also found distinctive brain deactivation and functional connectivity associated 
with phee call perception depending on the caller change. According to changes in
pupillary size, phee calls from a single subject induced a higher arousal level
compared with those from multiple subjects. These results suggest that marmoset
phee calls convey information about individual identity and affective valence
depending on the consistency or variability of the caller. Based on the flexible 
perception of the call based on individual recognition, humans and marmosets may 
share some neural mechanisms underlying conspecific vocal perception.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-018-1169-z 
PMCID: PMC5908821
PMID: 29488110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Curr Biol. 2018 Mar 5;28(5):788-794.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2018.01.070. Epub 2018
Feb 22.

Precise Motor Control Enables Rapid Flexibility in Vocal Behavior of Marmoset
Monkeys.

Pomberger T(1), Risueno-Segovia C(1), Löschner J(2), Hage SR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076 Tübingen,
Germany; Graduate School of Neural & Behavioural Sciences - International Max
Planck Research School, University of Tübingen, Österberg-Str. 3, 72074 Tübingen,
Germany.
(2)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076 Tübingen,
Germany.
(3)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076 Tübingen,
Germany. Electronic address: steffen.hage@uni-tuebingen.de.

Investigating the evolution of human speech is difficult and controversial
because human speech surpasses nonhuman primate vocal communication in scope and 
flexibility [1-3]. Monkey vocalizations have been assumed to be largely innate,
highly affective, and stereotyped for over 50 years [4, 5]. Recently, this
perception has dramatically changed. Current studies have revealed distinct
learning mechanisms during vocal development [6-8] and vocal flexibility,
allowing monkeys to cognitively control when [9, 10], where [11], and what to
vocalize [10, 12, 13]. However, specific call features (e.g., duration,
frequency) remain surprisingly robust and stable in adult monkeys, resulting in
rather stereotyped and discrete call patterns [14]. Additionally, monkeys seem to
be unable to modulate their acoustic call structure under reinforced conditions
beyond natural constraints [15, 16]. Behavioral experiments have shown that
monkeys can stop sequences of calls immediately after acoustic perturbation but
cannot interrupt ongoing vocalizations, suggesting that calls consist of single
impartible pulses [17, 18]. Using acoustic perturbation triggered by the vocal
behavior itself and quantitative measures of resulting vocal adjustments, we show
that marmoset monkeys are capable of producing calls with durations beyond the
natural boundaries of their repertoire by interrupting ongoing vocalizations
rapidly after perturbation onset. Our results indicate that marmosets are capable
of interrupting vocalizations only at periodic time points throughout calls,
further supported by the occurrence of periodically segmented phees. These ideas 
overturn decades-old concepts on primate vocal pattern generation, indicating
that vocalizations do not consist of one discrete call pattern but are built of
many sequentially uttered units, like human speech.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2018.01.070 
PMID: 29478857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

