

722. Exp Anim. 2018 Jul 30;67(3):321-327. doi: 10.1538/expanim.17-0156. Epub 2018 Mar 
22.

Thioacetamide-induced hepatic fibrosis in the common marmoset.

Inoue T(1), Ishizaka Y(2), Sasaki E(1), Lu J(2), Mineshige T(1), Yanase M(3),
Sasaki E(1)(4), Shimoda M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marmoset Research, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki-shi, Kanagawa 210-0821, Japan.
(2)Department of Intractable Diseases, National Center for Global Health and
Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8655, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, National Center for Global Health and
Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8655, Japan.
(4)Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, 
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(5)Islet Cell Transplantation Project, Diabetes Research Center, National Center 
for Global Health and Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 162-8655,
Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a nonhuman primate that is used for
preclinical research on stem cell transplantation therapies due to its similarity
to human beings as well as its small size, enabling researchers to perform
experiments without preparing a large number of cells. In this study, we
developed a marmoset hepatic fibrosis model for regenerative medicine research.
Six female marmosets aged 4-6 years were administered thioacetamide (TAA) at a
dose of 2.5-40 mg/kg two or three times a week. Hepatic fibrosis was assessed by 
liver biopsy when blood chemistry indicated liver damage. Administration of TAA
increased total bile acid, aspartate aminotransferase, and total bilirubin and
decreased serum albumin levels. Following more than 11 weeks of continuous
injection of TAA, histological analyses detected hepatic fibrosis in all animals.
Type IV collagen 7S serum levels in animals with hepatic fibrosis were
significantly higher than in normal animals as a possible marker of hepatic
fibrosis in marmosets. Serial liver biopsies following the last administration of
TAA revealed that induced fibrosis remained up to 11 weeks. The results suggest
that continuous TAA administration induces persistent hepatic fibrosis in the
common marmoset and this nonhuman primate hepatic fibrosis model have the
possibility to evaluate the therapeutic effects of test samples to ameliorate
hepatic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.17-0156 
PMCID: PMC6083030
PMID: 29467352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2018 May;13(5):387-397. doi:
10.1080/17460441.2018.1443075. Epub 2018 Feb 25.

Merits and complexities of modeling multiple sclerosis in non-human primates:
implications for drug discovery.

't Hart BA(1)(2), Laman JD(2), Kap YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Immunobiology , Biomedical Primate Research Centre , Rijswijk 
, The Netherlands.
(2)b Department of Neuroscience , University of Groningen, University Medical
Center Groningen , Groningen , The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: The translation of scientific discoveries made in animal models
into effective treatments for patients often fails, indicating that currently
used disease models in preclinical research are insufficiently predictive for
clinical success. An often-used model in the preclinical research of autoimmune
neurological diseases, multiple sclerosis in particular, is experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Most EAE models are based on genetically
susceptible inbred/SPF mouse strains used at adolescent age (10-12 weeks), which 
lack exposure to genetic and microbial factors which shape the human immune
system. Areas covered: Herein, the authors ask whether an EAE model in adult
non-human primates from an outbred conventionally-housed colony could help bridge
the translational gap between rodent EAE models and MS patients. Particularly,
the authors discuss a novel and translationally relevant EAE model in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that shares remarkable pathological similarity
with MS. Expert opinion: The MS-like pathology in this model is caused by the
interaction of effector memory T cells with B cells infected with the
γ1-herpesvirus (CalHV3), both present in the pathogen-educated marmoset immune
repertoire. The authors postulate that depletion of only the small subset
(<0.05%) of CalHV3-infected B cells may be sufficient to limit chronic
inflammatory demyelination.

DOI: 10.1080/17460441.2018.1443075 
PMID: 29465302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

