

723. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2018 May;13(5):387-397. doi:
10.1080/17460441.2018.1443075. Epub 2018 Feb 25.

Merits and complexities of modeling multiple sclerosis in non-human primates:
implications for drug discovery.

't Hart BA(1)(2), Laman JD(2), Kap YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Immunobiology , Biomedical Primate Research Centre , Rijswijk 
, The Netherlands.
(2)b Department of Neuroscience , University of Groningen, University Medical
Center Groningen , Groningen , The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: The translation of scientific discoveries made in animal models
into effective treatments for patients often fails, indicating that currently
used disease models in preclinical research are insufficiently predictive for
clinical success. An often-used model in the preclinical research of autoimmune
neurological diseases, multiple sclerosis in particular, is experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Most EAE models are based on genetically
susceptible inbred/SPF mouse strains used at adolescent age (10-12 weeks), which 
lack exposure to genetic and microbial factors which shape the human immune
system. Areas covered: Herein, the authors ask whether an EAE model in adult
non-human primates from an outbred conventionally-housed colony could help bridge
the translational gap between rodent EAE models and MS patients. Particularly,
the authors discuss a novel and translationally relevant EAE model in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that shares remarkable pathological similarity
with MS. Expert opinion: The MS-like pathology in this model is caused by the
interaction of effector memory T cells with B cells infected with the
γ1-herpesvirus (CalHV3), both present in the pathogen-educated marmoset immune
repertoire. The authors postulate that depletion of only the small subset
(<0.05%) of CalHV3-infected B cells may be sufficient to limit chronic
inflammatory demyelination.

DOI: 10.1080/17460441.2018.1443075 
PMID: 29465302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. PLoS Biol. 2018 Feb 20;16(2):e2003933. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2003933.
eCollection 2018 Feb.

Vocal development through morphological computation.

Zhang YS(1)(2), Ghazanfar AA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey,
United States of America.
(2)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton,
New Jersey, United States of America.

Comment in
    PLoS Biol. 2018 Mar 22;16(3):e2005544.

The vocal behavior of infants changes dramatically during early life. Whether or 
not such a change results from the growth of the body during development-as
opposed to solely neural changes-has rarely been investigated. In this study of
vocal development in marmoset monkeys, we tested the putative causal relationship
between bodily growth and vocal development. During the first two months of life,
the spontaneous vocalizations of marmosets undergo (1) a gradual disappearance of
context-inappropriate call types and (2) an elongation in the duration of
context-appropriate contact calls. We hypothesized that both changes are the
natural consequences of lung growth and do not require any changes at the neural 
level. To test this idea, we first present a central pattern generator model of
marmoset vocal production to demonstrate that lung growth can affect the temporal
and oscillatory dynamics of neural circuits via sensory feedback from the lungs. 
Lung growth qualitatively shifted vocal behavior in the direction observed in
real marmoset monkey vocal development. We then empirically tested this
hypothesis by placing the marmoset infants in a helium-oxygen (heliox)
environment in which air is much lighter. This simulated a reversal in
development by decreasing the effort required to respire, thus increasing the
respiration rate (as though the lungs were smaller). The heliox manipulation
increased the proportions of inappropriate call types and decreased the duration 
of contact calls, consistent with a brief reversal of vocal development. These
results suggest that bodily growth alone can play a major role in shaping the
development of vocal behavior.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2003933 
PMCID: PMC5834215
PMID: 29462148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

