

737. Zoo Biol. 2018 Mar;37(2):98-106. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21398. Epub 2018 Jan 31.

Identification of possible nutritional and stress risk factors in the development
of marmoset wasting syndrome.

Cabana F(1), Maguire R(2), Hsu CD(2), Plowman A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Wildlife Nutrition Centre, Wildlife Reserves Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Veterinary Department, Wildlife Reserves Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Paignton Zoo Environmental Park, Paignton, UK.

Marmoset wasting syndrome (MWS) describes a series of symptoms in callitrichids
that lead to general weakness and a failure to thrive in captive conditions such 
as zoological institutions. Though the cause of MWS has not been identified, the 
majority of hypotheses are linked to deficiencies of specific nutrients and
increased stress levels. Questionnaires were sent to zoos requesting information 
on diets and housing of currently living and dead callitrichids before their
deaths, as well as their postmortem reports. Risk factors for development and
occurrence of MWS include close proximity of predator enclosures and high levels 
of dietary magnesium and zinc. Variables with effects which may protect against
the development of MWS included provision of a nest box, natural trees within
enclosure, reduced visibility to visitors, as well as dietary factors such as
higher concentrations of potassium and fiber fractions. The protective effects of
limited concentrate feeds and increased total dietary fiber may help reduce the
risks of developing MWS. The minerals may not have biological implications in MWS
per se, however, they may be reflective of diets too high in concentrates and too
low in plant matter. Habitat designs that are less naturalistic and those which
provide insufficient privacy or hide areas may increase chronic stress for
callitrichid species, possibly because of visitor-related stress. Other causes of
chronic stress in captive zoo populations should be the topic of further research
to reduce occurrence of MWS.

Â© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21398 
PMID: 29385275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. PLoS One. 2018 Jan 31;13(1):e0192095. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192095.
eCollection 2018.

Noninvasive measurement of dynamic brain signals using light penetrating the
brain.

Hiwaki O(1), Miyaguchi H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Sciences, Hiroshima City University, Hiroshima,
Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Hiroshima University,
Hiroshima, Japan.

Conventional techniques for the noninvasive measurement of brain activity involve
critical limitations in spatial or temporal resolution. Here, we propose the
method for noninvasive brain function measurement with high spatiotemporal
resolution using optical signals. We verified that diffused near-infrared light
penetrating through the upper jaw and into the skull, which we term as
optoencephalography (OEG), leads to the detection of dynamic brain signals that
vary concurrently with the electrophysiological neural activity. We measured the 
OEG signals following the stimulation of the median nerve in common marmosets.
The OEG signal response was tightly coupled with the electrophysiological
response represented by the somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP). The OEG
measurement is also shown to offer rather clear discrimination of brain signals.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192095 
PMCID: PMC5791992
PMID: 29385211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

