

74. Brain Struct Funct. 2021 Dec;226(9):3007-3022. doi: 10.1007/s00429-021-02367-9.
Epub 2021 Sep 13.

Marmosets: a promising model for probing the neural mechanisms underlying complex
visual networks such as the frontal-parietal network.

D'Souza JF(1)(2), Price NSC(1)(2), Hagan MA(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, 26 Innovation Walk, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, Monash University, 26 Innovation Walk, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia. 
maureen.hagan@monash.edu.
(4)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
maureen.hagan@monash.edu.

The technology, methodology and models used by visual neuroscientists have
provided great insights into the structure and function of individual brain
areas. However, complex cognitive functions arise in the brain due to networks
comprising multiple interacting cortical areas that are wired together with
precise anatomical connections. A prime example of this phenomenon is the
frontal-parietal network and two key regions within it: the frontal eye fields
(FEF) and lateral intraparietal area (area LIP). Activity in these cortical areas
has independently been tied to oculomotor control, motor preparation, visual
attention and decision-making. Strong, bidirectional anatomical connections have 
also been traced between FEF and area LIP, suggesting that the aforementioned
visual functions depend on these inter-area interactions. However, advancements
in our knowledge about the interactions between area LIP and FEF are limited with
the main animal model, the rhesus macaque, because these key regions are buried
in the sulci of the brain. In this review, we propose that the common marmoset is
the ideal model for investigating how anatomical connections give rise to
functionally-complex cognitive visual behaviours, such as those modulated by the 
frontal-parietal network, because of the homology of their cortical networks with
humans and macaques, amenability to transgenic technology, and rich behavioural
repertoire. Furthermore, the lissencephalic structure of the marmoset brain
enables application of powerful techniques, such as array-based electrophysiology
and optogenetics, which are critical to bridge the gaps in our knowledge about
structure and function in the brain.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-021-02367-9 
PMCID: PMC8541938
PMID: 34518902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Cereb Cortex. 2021 Sep 13. pii: bhab328. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhab328. [Epub ahead
of print]

Functional Organization of Frontoparietal Cortex in the Marmoset Investigated
with Awake Resting-State fMRI.

Hori Y(1), Cléry JC(1), Schaeffer DJ(2), Menon RS(1), Everling S(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario N6A 5B7, Canada.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261,
USA.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario N6A 5C1, Canada.

Frontoparietal networks contribute to complex cognitive functions in humans and
macaques, such as working memory, attention, task-switching, response
suppression, grasping, reaching, and eye movement control. However, there has
been no comprehensive examination of the functional organization of
frontoparietal networks using functional magnetic resonance imaging in the New
World common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), which is now widely recognized
as a powerful nonhuman primate experimental animal. In this study, we employed
hierarchical clustering of interareal blood oxygen level-dependent signals to
investigate the hypothesis that the organization of the frontoparietal cortex in 
the marmoset follows the organizational principles of the macaque frontoparietal 
system. We found that the posterior part of the lateral frontal cortex (premotor 
regions) was functionally connected to the anterior parietal areas, while more
anterior frontal regions (frontal eye field [FEF]) were connected to more
posterior parietal areas (the region around the lateral intraparietal area
[LIP]). These overarching patterns of interareal organization are consistent with
a recent macaque study. These findings demonstrate parallel frontoparietal
processing streams in marmosets and support the functional similarities of
FEF-LIP and premotor-anterior parietal pathways between marmoset and macaque.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhab328 
PMID: 34515315 

