

743. Chronobiol Int. 2018 May;35(5):658-672. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2018.1425883. Epub 
2018 Jan 26.

Mechanisms of social synchrony between circadian activity rhythms in cohabiting
marmosets.

Bessa ZCM(1), Melo PR(1), Gonçalves BSB(1)(2), Azevedo CVM(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia , Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal/RN , Brazil.
(2)b Escola de Artes, Ciências e Humanidades , Universidade de São Paulo , São
Paulo/SP , Brazil.

In marmosets, social synchrony between circadian profiles of activity is stronger
in animals that cohabit in a family. The activity of three breeding pairs was
recorded by actiwatches to investigate the mechanisms involved in the synchrony
between the circadian activity profiles during cohabitation in marmoset
reproductive pairs. The dyads were submitted to LD 12:12 (21 days) and LL: 1)
cohabitation (24 days), 2) removal of the cage mate (20 days), 3) reintroduction 
of the mate into the cage of the 1st situation (30 days) and 4) removal of the
cage mate (7 days). Next, they were rejoined and maintained in LD 12:12
(11 days). In conditions involving cohabitation of pair, the general and maximum 
correlation indexes between circadian profiles were higher in cage mates compared
to animals of the same or different sex with which they maintain only acoustic
and olfactive contact. This strong synchrony between rhythms was accompanied by a
stable phase relationship at the activity onset and offset, with identical
circadian periods between mates. When the pairs were separated, there was a break
in stability in the phase relationships between activity profiles with different 
circadian periods and a greater phase angle difference between rhythms of cage
mates. During separation, two females and one male progressively anticipated the 
activity onset and offset in a phase similar to that in previous conditions,
expressing entrainment to the mate. During the first reintroduction, two pairs
exhibited signs of masking in rhythm. Although modulation in the rhythm of some
animals has been observed through acoustic cues from animals outside the colony, 
we suggest that cohabitation favors strong synchrony between the circadian
activity profiles of marmoset reproductive pairs involving synchronization by
entrainment and masking. Further studies in the absence of external social cues
are necessary to clarify the role of these mechanisms on social synchronization
in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2018.1425883 
PMID: 29372816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Phytother Res. 2018 Apr;32(4):678-687. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6017. Epub 2018 Jan 24.

The effect of Banisteriopsis caapi (B. caapi) on the motor deficits in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.

Fisher R(1), Lincoln L(1), Jackson MJ(1), Abbate V(1), Jenner P(1), Hider R(1),
Lees A(2), Rose S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, School of Cancer and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Faculty of Life Science and Medicine, King's College London, London,
SE1 1UL.
(2)Reta Lila Weston Institute, University College London, London, WC1N 1PG, UK.

Banisteriopsis caapi (B. caapi) contains harmine, harmaline, and
tetrahydroharmine, has monoamine oxidase inhibitory activity, and has reported
antiparkinsonian activity in humans when imbibed as a tea; however, its effects
are poorly documented. For this reason, motor function was assessed in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets following
administration of B. caapi extract (28.4-113.6 mg/kg; po), harmine (0.1 and
0.3 mg/kg; sc), and selegiline (10 mg/kg; sc), alone or with a submaximal dose of
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA; 4-7 mg/kg). L-DOPA reversed motor
disability, increased locomotor activity, and induced moderate dyskinesia.
B. caapi did not increase locomotor activity or induce dyskinesia but at 56.8 and
113.6 mg/kg improved motor disability. The L-DOPA response was unaltered by
co-administration of B. caapi. Harmine (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) produced a mild
improvement in motor disability without affecting locomotor activity or
dyskinesia but had no effect on the L-DOPA-induced antiparkinsonian response.
Selegiline (10 mg/kg) alone improved motor function to the same extent as L-DOPA,
but with only mild dyskinesia, and did not alter the response to L-DOPA, although
dyskinesia was reduced. The findings suggest that B. caapi alone has a mild
antiparkinsonian effect but does not enhance the L-DOPA response or reduce
dyskinesia.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors Phytotherapy Research Published by John Wiley & Sons
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6017 
PMID: 29368409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

