

746. Biosci Trends. 2018 Mar 18;12(1):94-101. doi: 10.5582/bst.2017.01219. Epub 2018
Jan 15.

The response of common marmoset immunity against cedar pollen extract.

Kametani Y(1), Yamada Y(1), Takabayashi S(1)(2), Kato H(3), Ishiwata K(4),
Watanabe N(4), Sasaki E(2), Habu S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine.
(2)Central Institute for Experimental Animals.
(3)Hamamatsu University School of Medicine.
(4)Department of Tropical Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine.
(5)Department of Immunology, Juntendo University School of Medicine.

The in vivo model of pollinosis has been established using rodents, but the model
cannot completely mimic human pollinosis. We used Callithrix jacchus, the common 
marmoset (CM), to establish a pollinosis animal model using intranasal weekly
administration of cedar pollen extract with cholera toxin adjuvant. Some of the
treated CMs exhibited the symptoms of snitching, excess nasal mucus and/or
sneezing, but the period was very short, and the symptoms disappeared after
several weeks. The CD4+CD25+ cell ratio in the peripheral blood increased in CMs 
quickly after the nasal administration of cedar pollen extract, but the timing
was not parallel with the symptoms. IL-10 mRNA was enhanced in the peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), suggesting CM-induced tolerance for cedar pollen
administration. Similarly, Foxp3 mRNA was also detected in the PBMC. Additive
sensitization of these CMs with Ascaris egg administration did not enhance
chronic inflammation of type 1 allergy to induce the symptoms. These results
suggest that the environmental immune cells develop transient allergic symptoms
and subsequent immune-tolerance in the intranasally sensitized CMs.

DOI: 10.5582/bst.2017.01219 
PMID: 29332927  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2018 Feb;301(2):202-215. doi: 10.1002/ar.23710.

Functional Morphology of Mimetic Musculature in Primates: How Social Variables
and Body Size Stack up to Phylogeny.

Burrows AM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

Mammalian skeletal muscle is influenced by the functional demands placed upon it.
Functional morphology of facial expression musculature, or mimetic musculature,
is largely unknown. Recently, primate mimetic musculature has been shown to
respond to demands associated with social factors. Body size has also been
demonstrated to affect many aspects of primate functional morphology and
evolutionary morphology. The present study was designed to further examine the
role of social variables and body size in influencing the morphology of primate
mimetic musculature using a broad phylogenetic range of primates, primates with
varying body sizes, and those that exploit differing time of day activity cycles 
and social group sizes. Gross data on mimetic musculature morphology were
gathered from tarsiers (Tarsius bancanus), slender lorises (Loris tardigradus),
ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta), crowned lemurs (Eulemur coronatus), black
lemurs (E. macaco), owl monkeys (Aotus trivirgatus), and howler monkeys (Alouatta
caraya) and compared to previous results from chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes),
gibbons and siamangs (hylobatids), rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), Sulawesi
macaques (M. nigra), common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and greater
bushbabies (Otolemur spp.). Mimetic muscle presence/absence was observed and
recorded. Results revealed that phylogenetic position determines the overall
mimetic muscle groundplan, with anthropoids having a high number of muscles in
the superciliary and midface regions, strepsirrhines having a high number of
muscles in the external ear region, and tarsiers displaying an intermediate
condition. Within these broad taxonomic categories body size had an effect on
mimetic musculature, while time of day activity and social group size had smaller
effects. Anat Rec, 301:202-215, 2018. © 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.23710 
PMID: 29330949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

