

747. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2018 Feb;301(2):202-215. doi: 10.1002/ar.23710.

Functional Morphology of Mimetic Musculature in Primates: How Social Variables
and Body Size Stack up to Phylogeny.

Burrows AM(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

Mammalian skeletal muscle is influenced by the functional demands placed upon it.
Functional morphology of facial expression musculature, or mimetic musculature,
is largely unknown. Recently, primate mimetic musculature has been shown to
respond to demands associated with social factors. Body size has also been
demonstrated to affect many aspects of primate functional morphology and
evolutionary morphology. The present study was designed to further examine the
role of social variables and body size in influencing the morphology of primate
mimetic musculature using a broad phylogenetic range of primates, primates with
varying body sizes, and those that exploit differing time of day activity cycles 
and social group sizes. Gross data on mimetic musculature morphology were
gathered from tarsiers (Tarsius bancanus), slender lorises (Loris tardigradus),
ring-tailed lemurs (Lemur catta), crowned lemurs (Eulemur coronatus), black
lemurs (E. macaco), owl monkeys (Aotus trivirgatus), and howler monkeys (Alouatta
caraya) and compared to previous results from chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes),
gibbons and siamangs (hylobatids), rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), Sulawesi
macaques (M. nigra), common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), and greater
bushbabies (Otolemur spp.). Mimetic muscle presence/absence was observed and
recorded. Results revealed that phylogenetic position determines the overall
mimetic muscle groundplan, with anthropoids having a high number of muscles in
the superciliary and midface regions, strepsirrhines having a high number of
muscles in the external ear region, and tarsiers displaying an intermediate
condition. Within these broad taxonomic categories body size had an effect on
mimetic musculature, while time of day activity and social group size had smaller
effects. Anat Rec, 301:202-215, 2018. © 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.23710 
PMID: 29330949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. J Neurosci. 2018 Jan 10;38(2):260-262. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2774-17.2017.

Does Auditory Cortex Code Temporal Information from Acoustic and Cochlear Implant
Stimulation in a Similar Way?

Navntoft CA(1), Adenis V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Basel University, 4056 Basel, Switzerland, and
charlotte.navntoft@unibas.ch.
(2)Paris-Saclay Institute of Neuroscience, Université Paris-Sud, 91405 Orsay
Cedex, France.

Comment on
    J Neurosci. 2017 Jul 19;37(29):7008-7022.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2774-17.2017 
PMCID: PMC6596111
PMID: 29321145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

