

756. NMR Biomed. 2018 Mar;31(3). doi: 10.1002/nbm.3864. Epub 2017 Dec 29.

Investigation of the BOLD and CBV fMRI responses to somatosensory stimulation in 
awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Hirano Y(1), Yen CC(1), Liu JV(1), Mackel JB(1), Merkle H(1), Nascimento GC(1),
Stefanovic B(1), Silva AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

Understanding the spatiotemporal features of the hemodynamic response function
(HRF) to brain stimulation is essential for the correct application of
neuroimaging methods to study brain function. Here, we investigated the
spatiotemporal evolution of the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) and cerebral 
blood volume (CBV) HRF in conscious, awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a New 
World non-human primate with a lissencephalic brain and with growing use in
biomedical research. The marmosets were acclimatized to head fixation and placed 
in a 7-T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner. Somatosensory stimulation
(333-μs pulses; amplitude, 2 mA; 64 Hz) was delivered bilaterally via pairs of
contact electrodes. A block design paradigm was used in which the stimulus
duration increased in pseudo-random order from a single pulse up to 256
electrical pulses (4 s). For CBV measurements, 30 mg/kg of ultrasmall
superparamagnetic ironoxide particles (USPIO) injected intravenously, were used. 
Robust BOLD and CBV HRFs were obtained in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1), 
secondary somatosensory cortex (S2) and caudate at all stimulus conditions. In
particular, BOLD and CBV responses to a single 333-μs-long stimulus were reliably
measured, and the CBV HRF presented shorter onset time and time to peak than the 
BOLD HRF. Both the size of the regions of activation and the peak amplitude of
the HRFs grew quickly with increasing stimulus duration, and saturated for
stimulus durations greater than 1 s. Onset times in S1 and S2 were faster than in
caudate. Finally, the fine spatiotemporal features of the HRF in awake marmosets 
were similar to those obtained in humans, indicating that the continued
refinement of awake non-human primate models is essential to maximize the
applicability of animal functional MRI studies to the investigation of human
brain function.

Published 2017. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.3864 
PMCID: PMC5841465
PMID: 29285809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. J Med Primatol. 2018 Apr;47(2):128-131. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12329. Epub 2017 Dec 28.

Hepatocellular carcinoma in a free-living marmoset (Callithrix sp.) with
concomitant biliary trematodiasis.

Díaz-Delgado J(1)(2), Sanches TC(3), Dos Santos-Cirqueira C(2), Coimbra AAC(3),
Guerra JM(2), Joppert A(3), Di Loretto C(2), Rizardi MB(3), Sansone M(2),
Nagamori FO(2), Gonçalves PS(2), Ressio R(2), Iglezias S(2), Fernandes NCCA(2),
Kanamura C(2), Groch KR(1), Catão-Dias JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Patologia, Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária e Zootecnia,
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brasil.
(2)Centro de Patologia, Instituto Adolfo Lutz (IAL), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Divisão Técnica de Medicina Veterinária e Manejo da Fauna Silvestre
(DEPAVE-3), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is rare in New World primates. We report the
gross, microscopical, and immunocytochemical features of a spontaneous HCC in a
free-living marmoset (Callithrix sp.). Hepatitis B and C virus and aflatoxin
immunohistochemistry were negative; however, concomitant intra- and extrahepatic 
biliary trematodiasis could have played a role.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12329 
PMID: 29283447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

