

758. Biochem Pharmacol. 2018 Jul;153:184-195. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.12.015. Epub
2017 Dec 23.

Genetic polymorphisms of drug-metabolizing cytochrome P450 enzymes in cynomolgus 
and rhesus monkeys and common marmosets in preclinical studies for humans.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama 642-0017, Japan.
(2)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(3)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic
address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis, Old World Monkeys) and common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus, New World Monkeys) have been widely, and expectedly, used as
non-human primate models in drug development studies. Major drug-metabolizing
cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes information is now available that supports these
primate species as animal models, and it is established that multiple forms of
cynomolgus monkey and common marmoset P450 enzymes have generally similar
substrate recognition functionality to human P450 enzymes. This research update
provides information on genetic polymorphisms of P450 enzymes in cynomolgus
monkey and common marmoset like human P450 enzymes. Information on rhesus monkeys
(Macaca mulatta), another macaque species used in drug metabolism studies, is
also included for comparison. Among a variety of cynomolgus monkey P450 variants 
investigated, typical examples include individual pharmacokinetic data for
efavirenz and R-warfarin associated with cynomolgus monkey P450 2C9 (formerly
2C43) and 2C19 (2C75) variants, respectively, and for R-omeprazole and S-warfarin
associated with marmoset P450 2C19 variants. These findings provide a foundation 
for understanding the individual pharmacokinetic and toxicological results in
non-human primates as preclinical models and will help to further support
understanding of molecular mechanisms of human P450 function. In addition to
these polymorphic P450 enzymes, effects of aging on some drug clearances mediated
by cynomolgus monkey and common marmoset P450 enzymes were found in elder animals
or animals pretreated with rifampicin. This review describes genetic and acquired
individual differences in cynomolgus monkey and common marmoset P450 enzymes
involved in drug oxidation associated with pharmacological and/or toxicological
effects.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.12.015 
PMID: 29277691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2017 Oct-Dec;89(4):2793-2804. doi:
10.1590/0001-3765201720170484.

Cytogenetics and Molecular Genetic Analysis of Chimerism in Marmosets
(Callithrix: Primates).

Silva MOM(1), Armada JLA(2), Verona CES(3), Heliodoro G(4), Nogueira DM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Biologia Animal, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas
e da Saúde, Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro/UFRRJ, Rodovia BR 465,
Km 7, 23890-000 Seropédica, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Genética, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas e da Saúde,
Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro/UFRRJ, Rodovia BR 465, Km 7,
23890-000 Seropédica, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Instituto Brasileiro para Medicina da Conservação/Instituto Tríade, Rua
Silveira Lobo 32, Caixa Postal 48, Casa Forte, 52061-030 Recife, PE, Brazil.
(4)Instituto de Pesquisas Jardim Botânico do Rio de Janeiro/JBRJ, Rua Jardim
Botânico, 1008, 22470-180 Jardim Botânico, RJ, Brazil.

The birth of fraternal twins is a characteristic frequently observed in
callitrichids. Cytogenetic studies have demonstrated hematopoietic chimerism in
marmosets with the occurrence of two cell lines 2n=46,XX/46,XY in females and
males co-twins, without phenotypic changes. Amplification by PCR have also been
used to verify the presence of the SRY gene in female chimaeras. Our aim was to
verify the occurrence of chimerism in Callithrix sp. individuals considered as
hybrids according to their intermediate phenotypes between C. jacchus and C.
penicillata. Blood samples from 37 Callithrix sp. individuals were collected.
Hematopoietic chimerism 2n=46,XX/46,XY was detected by cytogenetic analysis in
five individuals, three males and two females. A fragment of approximately 200bp 
of the SRY gene was amplified in seven females with normal external genitalia.
The percentage of 32% of chimeric individuals detected in the present study is
similar to that observed for pure specimens of Callithrix. These data suggests
that hybridization probably does not interfere with the occurrence of twin
gestation, nor of chimerism. Although cytogenetics is the main tool to identify
the two cell lineages present in cases of chimerism, the amplification of the SRY
gene by PCR has proved to be more efficient to identify the Y chromosome in cases
of chimeric female marmoset.

DOI: 10.1590/0001-3765201720170484 
PMID: 29267796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

