

766. Chronobiol Int. 2018 Jan;35(1):35-48. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2017.1380658. Epub
2017 Dec 6.

Forced desynchronization model for a diurnal primate.

Silva CA(1)(2), Melo LIM(1), Pires AR(1), Barbalho JC(1), Melo AV(1), Fernandes
DAC(1), Oliveira EB(1), Azevedo CVM(1), Cambras T(3), Díez-Noguera A(3),
Fontenele-Araujo J(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratório de Neurobiologia e Ritmicidade Biológica, Departamento de
Fisiologia , Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal , Rio Grande do 
Norte , Brazil.
(2)b Departamento de Neuropsiquiatria , Universidade Federal de Pernambuco ,
Recife , Pernambuco , Brazil.
(3)c Departament de Fisiologia, Facultat de Farmàcia , Universitat de Barcelona ,
Barcelona , Spain.

The circadian system is organized in a hierarchy of multiple oscillators, with
the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) as the master oscillator in mammals. The SCN is
formed by a group of coupled cell oscillators. Knowledge of this coupling
mechanism is essential to understanding entrainment and the expression of
circadian rhythms. Some authors suggest that light-dark (LD) cycles with periods 
near the limit of entrainment may be good models for promoting internal
desynchronization, providing knowledge about the coupling mechanism. As such, we 
evaluated the circadian activity rhythm (CAR) pattern of marmosets in LD cycles
at lower limits of entrainment in order to study induced internal dissociation.
To that end, two experiments were conducted: (1) 6 adult females were under
symmetrical LD cycles T21, T22 and T21.5 for 60, 35 and 48 days, respectively;
and (2) 4 male and 4 female adults were under T21 for 24 days followed by 18 days
of LL, back to T21 for 24 days, followed by 14 days of LL. The CAR of each animal
was continuously recorded. In experiment 1, vocalizations were also recorded.
Under Ts shorter than 24 days, a dissociation pattern was observed for CAR and
vocalizations. Two simultaneous circadian components emerged, one with the same
period as the LD cycle, called the light-entrained component, and the other in
free-running, denominated the non-light-entrained component. Both components were
displayed in the CAR for all the animals in T21, five animals (83.3%) in T21.5
and two animals (33.3%) in T22. Our results are in accordance with the
multioscillatory nature of the circadian system. Dissociation is partial
synchronization to the LD cycle, with at least one group of oscillators
synchronized by relative coordination and masking, while another group of
oscillators free runs, but is also masked by the LD cycle. Since only T21
promoted the emergence of both circadian components in the circadian rhythms of
all marmosets, it was considered the promoter period of circadian rhythm
dissociation in this species, and is proposed as a good animal model for forced
desynchronization in non-human diurnal primates.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2017.1380658 
PMID: 29211510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Neuroimage. 2018 Apr 1;169:106-116. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.12.004. Epub
2017 Dec 5.

A digital 3D atlas of the marmoset brain based on multi-modal MRI.

Liu C(1), Ye FQ(2), Yen CC(1), Newman JD(3), Glen D(4), Leopold DA(5), Silva
AC(6).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(2)Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National Institute of Mental Health,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, and National Eye
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(3)Laboratory of Comparative Ethology, Eunice Kennedy Shriver, National Institute
of Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health,
Poolesville, MD 20837, USA.
(4)Scientific and Statistical Computing Core, National Institute of Mental
Health, National Institutes of Health (NIMH/NIH), Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(5)Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National Institute of Mental Health,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, and National Eye
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA; Section on
Cognitive Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of Neuropsychology, National
Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-4400, USA.
(6)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. Electronic address:
SilvaA@ninds.nih.gov.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New-World monkey of growing
interest in neuroscience. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an essential tool
to unveil the anatomical and functional organization of the marmoset brain. To
facilitate identification of regions of interest, it is desirable to register MR 
images to an atlas of the brain. However, currently available atlases of the
marmoset brain are mainly based on 2D histological data, which are difficult to
apply to 3D imaging techniques. Here, we constructed a 3D digital atlas based on 
high-resolution ex-vivo MRI images, including magnetization transfer ratio (a
T1-like contrast), T2w images, and multi-shell diffusion MRI. Based on the
multi-modal MRI images, we manually delineated 54 cortical areas and 16
subcortical regions on one hemisphere of the brain (the core version). The 54
cortical areas were merged into 13 larger cortical regions according to their
locations to yield a coarse version of the atlas, and also parcellated into 106
sub-regions using a connectivity-based parcellation method to produce a refined
atlas. Finally, we compared the new atlas set with existing histology atlases and
demonstrated its applications in connectome studies, and in resting state and
stimulus-based fMRI. The atlas set has been integrated into the
widely-distributed neuroimaging data analysis software AFNI and SUMA, providing a
readily usable multi-modal template space with multi-level anatomical labels
(including labels from the Paxinos atlas) that can facilitate various
neuroimaging studies of marmosets.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.12.004 
PMCID: PMC5856608
PMID: 29208569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

