

769. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2018 Jan;38(1):174-185. doi:
10.1161/ATVBAHA.117.310337. Epub 2017 Nov 30.

Both Autocrine Signaling and Paracrine Signaling of HB-EGF Enhance Ocular
Neovascularization.

Inoue Y(1), Shimazawa M(1), Nakamura S(1), Takata S(1), Hashimoto Y(1), Izawa
H(1), Masuda T(1), Tsuruma K(1), Sakaue T(1), Nakayama H(1), Higashiyama S(1),
Hara H(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu 
Pharmaceutical University, Japan (Y.I., M.S., S.N., S.T., Y.H., H.I., T.M., K.T.,
H.H.); Proteo-Science Center, Division of Cell Growth and Tumor Regulation, Ehime
University Shitsukawa, Toon, Japan (T.S., H.N., S.H.); and Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Shitsukawa, Toon, Japan (T.S., S.H.).
(2)From the Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu 
Pharmaceutical University, Japan (Y.I., M.S., S.N., S.T., Y.H., H.I., T.M., K.T.,
H.H.); Proteo-Science Center, Division of Cell Growth and Tumor Regulation, Ehime
University Shitsukawa, Toon, Japan (T.S., H.N., S.H.); and Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Shitsukawa, Toon, Japan (T.S., S.H.). hidehara@gifu-pu.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVE: The incidence of blindness is increasing because of the increase in
abnormal ocular neovascularization. Anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth
factor) therapies have led to good results, although they are not a cure for the 
blindness. The purpose of this study was to determine what role HB-EGF
(heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor) plays in ocular
angiogenesis.
APPROACH AND RESULTS: We examined the role played by HB-EGF in ocular
neovascularization in 2 animal models of neovascularization: laser-induced
choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and oxygen-induced retinopathy. We also
studied human retinal microvascular endothelial cells in culture. Our results
showed that the neovascularization was decreased in both the CNV and
oxygen-induced retinopathy models in HB-EGF conditional knockout mice compared
with that in wild-type mice. Moreover, the expressions of HB-EGF and VEGF were
increased after laser-induced CNV and oxygen-induced retinopathy, and their
expression sites were located around the neovascular areas. Exposure of human
retinal microvascular endothelial cells to HB-EGF and VEGF increased their
proliferation and migration, and CRM-197 (cross-reactive material-197), an HB-EGF
inhibitor, decreased the HB-EGF-induced and VEGF-induced cell proliferation and
migration. VEGF increased the expression of HB-EGF mRNA. VEGF-dependent
activation of EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor)/ERK1/2 (extracellular
signal-regulated kinase 1/2) signaling and cell proliferation of endothelial
cells required stimulation of the ADAM17 (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) and 
ADAM12. CRM-197 decreased the grades of the fluorescein angiograms and size of
the CNV areas in marmoset monkeys.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that HB-EGF plays an important role in the
development of CNV. Therefore, further investigations of HB-EGF are needed as a
potential therapeutic target in the treatment of exudative age-related macular
degeneration.

© 2017 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.117.310337 
PMID: 29191924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Brain Struct Funct. 2018 May;223(4):1599-1614. doi: 10.1007/s00429-017-1574-0.
Epub 2017 Nov 28.

Organization of auditory areas in the superior temporal gyrus of marmoset monkeys
revealed by real-time optical imaging.

Nishimura M(1), Takemoto M(1), Song WJ(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sensory and Cognitive Physiology, Graduate School of Medical
Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan.
(2)Department of Sensory and Cognitive Physiology, Graduate School of Medical
Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. song@kumamoto-u.ac.jp.
(3)Program for Leading Graduate Schools HIGO Program, Kumamoto University,
Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. song@kumamoto-u.ac.jp.

The prevailing model of the primate auditory cortex proposes a core-belt-parabelt
structure. The model proposes three auditory areas in the lateral belt region;
however, it may contain more, as this region has been mapped only at a limited
spatial resolution. To explore this possibility, we examined the auditory areas
in the lateral belt region of the marmoset using a high-resolution optical
imaging technique. Based on responses to pure tones, we identified multiple areas
in the superior temporal gyrus. The three areas in the core region, the primary
area (A1), the rostral area (R), and the rostrotemporal area, were readily
identified from their frequency gradients and positions immediately ventral to
the lateral sulcus. Three belt areas were identified with frequency gradients and
relative positions to A1 and R that were in agreement with previous studies: the 
caudolateral area, the middle lateral area, and the anterolateral area (AL).
Situated between R and AL, however, we identified two additional areas. The first
was located caudoventral to R with a frequency gradient in the ventrocaudal
direction, which we named the medial anterolateral (MAL) area. The second was a
small area with no obvious tonotopy (NT), positioned between the MAL and AL
areas. Both the MAL and NT areas responded to a wide range of frequencies (at
least 2-24 kHz). Our results suggest that the belt region caudoventral to R is
more complex than previously proposed, and we thus call for a refinement of the
current primate auditory cortex model.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-017-1574-0 
PMID: 29185107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

