

77. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2021 Sep 14;118(37). pii: e2110980118. doi:
10.1073/pnas.2110980118.

Interspecies activation correlations reveal functional correspondences between
marmoset and human brain areas.

Hori Y(1), Cléry JC(2), Selvanayagam J(3), Schaeffer DJ(4), Johnston KD(3), Menon
RS(2), Everling S(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A 5B7, Canada; yhori@uwo.ca
severlin@uwo.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A 5B7, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, ON N6A 5C1, Canada.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.

The common marmoset has enormous promise as a nonhuman primate model of human
brain functions. While resting-state functional MRI (fMRI) has provided evidence 
for a similar organization of marmoset and human cortices, the technique cannot
be used to map the functional correspondences of brain regions between species.
This limitation can be overcome by movie-driven fMRI (md-fMRI), which has become 
a popular tool for noninvasively mapping the neural patterns generated by rich
and naturalistic stimulation. Here, we used md-fMRI in marmosets and humans to
identify whole-brain functional correspondences between the two primate species. 
In particular, we describe functional correlates for the well-known human face,
body, and scene patches in marmosets. We find that these networks have a similar 
organization in both species, suggesting a largely conserved organization of
higher-order visual areas between New World marmoset monkeys and humans. However,
while face patches in humans and marmosets were activated by marmoset faces, only
human face patches responded to the faces of other animals. Together, the results
demonstrate that higher-order visual processing might be a conserved feature
between humans and New World marmoset monkeys but that small, potentially
important functional differences exist.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2110980118 
PMCID: PMC8449355
PMID: 34493677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


78. Behav Processes. 2021 Nov;192:104495. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2021.104495. Epub
2021 Sep 4.

Detection of conspicuous and cryptic food by common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus): An evaluation of the importance of color and shape cues.

Barros PKS(1), Castro FN(2), Pessoa DMA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil; Primate Center, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Human Behavior Evolution, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil; Primate Center, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil. Electronic address: daniel.pessoa@ufrn.br.

In primates, the advantage of trichromacy (i.e., color vision expressed by most
humans) over dichromacy (i.e., color vision expressed by many colorblind humans) 
has been linked to the detection of yellowish/reddish targets against a
background of mature green leaves. Nevertheless, mostly because of studies
conducted in humans, we know that achromatic cues might also play an important
role in object identification, particularly when camouflage is involved. For
instance, dichromacy favors the detection of camouflaged targets by exploitation 
of shape cues. The present study sought to evaluate the relative importance of
color and shape cues on the detection of food targets by female and male
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Animals were observed with respect to their
foraging behavior and the number of food targets captured. We confirmed that
females are advantageous in detecting conspicuous food against a green background
and revealed that females and males rely on shape cues to segregate cryptic food.
Unexpectedly, males outperformed females in cryptic food foraging, while
camouflage improved males' (but not females') performance. Here we show that
dichromats could potentially benefit from a better segregation of green natural
targets (e.g., immature fruits, green insects, and gum trees) when viewed against
a green dappled background.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2021.104495 
PMID: 34487831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

