

773. Nihon Rinsho Meneki Gakkai Kaishi. 2017;40(4):254. doi: 10.2177/jsci.40.254.

[No title available]

[Article in Japanese]

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.2177/jsci.40.254 
PMID: 29176278  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Neurosci Lett. 2018 Feb 5;665:182-188. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2017.11.049. Epub
2017 Nov 24.

Intravenous administration of the adeno-associated virus-PHP.B capsid fails to
upregulate transduction efficiency in the marmoset brain.

Matsuzaki Y(1), Konno A(1), Mochizuki R(1), Shinohara Y(1), Nitta K(1), Okada
Y(1), Hirai H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology & Neural Repair, Gunma University Graduate
School of Medicine, 3-39-22 Showa-machi, Maebashi, Gunma 371-8511, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurophysiology & Neural Repair, Gunma University Graduate
School of Medicine, 3-39-22 Showa-machi, Maebashi, Gunma 371-8511, Japan;
Research Program for Neural Signalling, Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and
Signal Research, Gunma University Initiative for Advanced Research, 3-39-22
Showa-machi, Maebashi, Gunma 371-8511, Japan. Electronic address:
hirai@gunma-u.ac.jp.

Intravenous administration of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-PHP.B, a capsid
variant of AAV9 containing seven amino acid insertions, results in a greater
permeability of the blood brain barrier (BBB) than standard AAV9 in mice, leading
to highly efficient and global transduction of the central nervous system (CNS). 
The present study aimed to examine whether the enhanced BBB penetrance of
AAV-PHP.B observed in mice also occurs in non-human primates. Thus, a young adult
(age, 1.6 years) and an old adult (age, 7.2 years) marmoset received an
intravenous injection of AAV-PHP.B expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein 
(EGFP) under the control of the constitutive CBh promoter (a hybrid of
cytomegalovirus early enhancer and chicken β-actin promoter). Age-matched control
marmosets were treated with standard AAV9-capsid vectors. The animals were
sacrificed 6 weeks after the viral injection. Based on the results, only limited 
transduction of neurons (0-2%) and astrocytes (0.1-2.5%) was observed in both
AAV-PHP.B- and AAV9-treated marmosets. One noticeable difference between
AAV-PHP.B and AAV9 was the marked transduction of the peripheral dorsal root
ganglia neurons. Indeed, the soma and axons in the projection from the spinal
cord to the nucleus cuneatus in the medulla oblongata were strongly labeled with 
EGFP by AAV-PHP.B. Thus, except for the peripheral dorsal root ganglia neurons,
the AAV-PHP.B transduction efficiency in the CNS of marmosets was comparable to
that of AAV9 vectors.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2017.11.049 
PMID: 29175632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

