

78. Behav Processes. 2021 Nov;192:104495. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2021.104495. Epub
2021 Sep 4.

Detection of conspicuous and cryptic food by common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus): An evaluation of the importance of color and shape cues.

Barros PKS(1), Castro FN(2), Pessoa DMA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil; Primate Center, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Human Behavior Evolution, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil; Primate Center, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil. Electronic address: daniel.pessoa@ufrn.br.

In primates, the advantage of trichromacy (i.e., color vision expressed by most
humans) over dichromacy (i.e., color vision expressed by many colorblind humans) 
has been linked to the detection of yellowish/reddish targets against a
background of mature green leaves. Nevertheless, mostly because of studies
conducted in humans, we know that achromatic cues might also play an important
role in object identification, particularly when camouflage is involved. For
instance, dichromacy favors the detection of camouflaged targets by exploitation 
of shape cues. The present study sought to evaluate the relative importance of
color and shape cues on the detection of food targets by female and male
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Animals were observed with respect to their
foraging behavior and the number of food targets captured. We confirmed that
females are advantageous in detecting conspicuous food against a green background
and revealed that females and males rely on shape cues to segregate cryptic food.
Unexpectedly, males outperformed females in cryptic food foraging, while
camouflage improved males' (but not females') performance. Here we show that
dichromats could potentially benefit from a better segregation of green natural
targets (e.g., immature fruits, green insects, and gum trees) when viewed against
a green dappled background.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2021.104495 
PMID: 34487831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Geroscience. 2021 Oct;43(5):2413-2425. doi: 10.1007/s11357-021-00438-7. Epub 2021
Sep 5.

DNA methylation age analysis of rapamycin in common marmosets.

Horvath S(1)(2), Zoller JA(3), Haghani A(4), Lu AT(4), Raj K(5), Jasinska AJ(6), 
Mattison JA(7), Salmon AB(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California, Los Angeles, Gonda Building, 695 Charles Young Drive South, Los
Angeles, CA, USA. shorvath@mednet.ucla.edu.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Fielding School of Public Health, University of
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA. shorvath@mednet.ucla.edu.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Fielding School of Public Health, University of
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 90095, USA.
(4)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California, Los Angeles, Gonda Building, 695 Charles Young Drive South, Los
Angeles, CA, USA.
(5)Radiation Effects Department, Centre for Radiation, Chemical and Environmental
Hazards, Public Health England, Chilton, Didcot, UK.
(6)Center for Neurobehavioral Genetics, Semel Institute for Neuroscience and
Human Behavior, Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, David Geffen
School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(7)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging Intramural
Research Program, National Institutes of Health, Dickerson, MD, USA.
(8)The Sam and Ann Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, and
Department of Molecular Medicine, UT Health San Antonio, and the Geriatric
Research Education and Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans Healthcare System,
San Antonio, TX, USA.

Human DNA methylation data have previously been used to develop highly accurate
biomarkers of aging ("epigenetic clocks"). Subsequent studies demonstrate that
similar epigenetic clocks can also be developed for mice and many other mammals. 
Here, we describe epigenetic clocks for common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
based on novel DNA methylation data generated from highly conserved mammalian
CpGs that were profiled using a custom Infinium array
(HorvathMammalMethylChip40). From these, we developed and present here two
epigenetic clocks for marmosets that are applicable to whole blood samples. We
find that the human-marmoset clock for relative age exhibits moderately high age 
correlations in two other non-human primate species: vervet monkeys and rhesus
macaques. In a separate cohort of marmosets, we tested whether intervention with 
rapamycin, a drug shown to extend lifespan in mice, would alter the epigenetic
age of marmosets, as measured by the marmoset epigenetic clocks. These clocks did
not detect significant effects of rapamycin on the epigenetic age of marmoset
blood. The common marmoset stands out from other mammals in that it is not
possible to build accurate estimators of sex based on DNA methylation data: the
accuracy of a random forest predictor of sex (66%) was substantially lower than
that observed for other mammals (which is close to 100%). Overall, the epigenetic
clocks developed here for the common marmoset are expected to be useful for age
estimation of wild-born animals and for anti-aging studies in this species.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-021-00438-7 
PMCID: PMC8599537
PMID: 34482522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

