

786. Theriogenology. 2018 Jan 15;106:221-226. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2017.10.023. Epub 2017 Oct 22.

Quality of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) oocytes collected after ovarian
stimulation.

Kanda A(1), Nobukiyo A(1), Yoshioka M(1), Hatakeyama T(1), Sotomaru Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, 1-2-3 Kasumi, Minami-ku, Hiroshima 734-8551, Japan.
(2)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, 1-2-3 Kasumi, Minami-ku, Hiroshima 734-8551, Japan. Electronic
address: sotomaru@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is an experimental animal that is
considered suitable for the creation of next-generation human disease models. It 
has recently been used in the reproductive technology field. Oocytes can be
effectively collected from female marmosets via ovarian stimulation with
injections of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and human chorionic gonadotropin
(hCG). The oocytes, collected about 28 h after the hCG injection, include both
premature oocytes and postmature (in vivo matured; IVO) oocytes, and the
premature oocytes can be matured by in vitro culture (in vitro matured; IVM).
Although IVM and IVO oocytes are equivalent in appearance at the MII stage, it
remains unclear whether there are differences in their properties. Therefore, we 
investigated their in vitro fertilization and developmental capacities and
cytoskeletal statuses. Our findings revealed that the IVM and IVO oocytes had
similar fertilization rates but that no IVO oocytes could develop to the
blastocyst stage. Additionally, IVO oocytes showed abnormal cytoskeletal
formation. It is concluded that IVM oocytes maintain normal function, whereas IVO
oocytes would be affected by aging and other factors when they remain for a long 
time in the ovary.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2017.10.023 
PMID: 29096269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. PLoS Biol. 2017 Nov 1;15(11):e2002459. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2002459.
eCollection 2017 Nov.

Rate, not selectivity, determines neuronal population coding accuracy in auditory
cortex.

Sun W(1), Barbour DL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, Missouri, United States of America.

The notion that neurons with higher selectivity carry more information about
external sensory inputs is widely accepted in neuroscience. High-selectivity
neurons respond to a narrow range of sensory inputs, and thus would be considered
highly informative by rejecting a large proportion of possible inputs. In
auditory cortex, neuronal responses are less selective immediately after the
onset of a sound and then become highly selective in the following sustained
response epoch. These 2 temporal response epochs have thus been interpreted to
encode first the presence and then the content of a sound input. Contrary to
predictions from that prevailing theory, however, we found that the neural
population conveys similar information about sound input across the 2 epochs in
spite of the neuronal selectivity differences. The amount of information encoded 
turns out to be almost completely dependent upon the total number of population
spikes in the read-out window for this system. Moreover, inhomogeneous Poisson
spiking behavior is sufficient to account for this property. These results imply 
a novel principle of sensory encoding that is potentially shared widely among
multiple sensory systems.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2002459 
PMCID: PMC5683657
PMID: 29091725  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

