

796. Nature. 2017 Oct 19;550(7676):411-414. doi: 10.1038/nature24055. Epub 2017 Oct
11.

Cryo-electron microscopy structure of the lysosomal calcium-permeable channel
TRPML3.

Hirschi M(1), Herzik MA Jr(2), Wie J(3), Suo Y(1), Borschel WF(1), Ren D(3),
Lander GC(2), Lee SY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina 27710, USA.
(2)Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104, USA.

The modulation of ion channel activity by lipids is increasingly recognized as a 
fundamental component of cellular signalling. The transient receptor potential
mucolipin (TRPML) channel family belongs to the TRP superfamily and is composed
of three members: TRPML1-TRPML3. TRPMLs are the major Ca2+-permeable channels on 
late endosomes and lysosomes (LEL). They regulate the release of Ca2+ from
organelles, which is important for various physiological processes, including
organelle trafficking and fusion. Loss-of-function mutations in the MCOLN1 gene, 
which encodes TRPML1, cause the neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder
mucolipidosis type IV, and a gain-of-function mutation (Ala419Pro) in TRPML3
gives rise to the varitint-waddler (Va) mouse phenotype. Notably, TRPML channels 
are activated by the low-abundance and LEL-enriched signalling lipid
phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,5)P2), whereas other
phosphoinositides such as PtdIns(4,5)P2, which is enriched in plasma membranes,
inhibit TRPMLs. Conserved basic residues at the N terminus of the channel are
important for activation by PtdIns(3,5)P2 and inhibition by PtdIns(4,5)P2.
However, owing to a lack of structural information, the mechanism by which TRPML 
channels recognize PtdIns(3,5)P2 and increase their Ca2+ conductance remains
unclear. Here we present the cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of a
full-length TRPML3 channel from the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) at an
overall resolution of 2.9 Å. Our structure reveals not only the molecular basis
of ion conduction but also the unique architecture of TRPMLs, wherein the voltage
sensor-like domain is linked to the pore via a cytosolic domain that we term the 
mucolipin domain. Combined with functional studies, these data suggest that the
mucolipin domain is responsible for PtdIns(3,5)P2 binding and subsequent channel 
activation, and that it acts as a 'gating pulley' for lipid-dependent TRPML
gating.

DOI: 10.1038/nature24055 
PMCID: PMC5762132
PMID: 29019979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2018 Jan;118:156-171. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.10.002. Epub
2017 Oct 6.

Phenotypic evolution in marmoset and tamarin monkeys (Cebidae, Callitrichinae)
and a revised genus-level classification.

Garbino GST(1), Martins-Junior AMG(2).

Author information: 
(1)PPG-Zoologia, Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas,
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. Electronic address:
antonio_mgmartins@hotmail.com.
(2)Laboratório de Genética e Evolução, Instituto Federal do Pará, Campus de
Tucuruí, Brazil; Centro de Genômica e Biologia de Sistemas, Universidade Federal 
do Pará, Belém, Brazil.

Marmosets and tamarins (Cebidae, Callitrichinae) constitute the most species-rich
subfamily of New World monkeys and one of the most diverse phenotypically.
Despite the profusion of molecular phylogenies of the group, the evolution of
phenotypic characters under the rapidly-emerging consensual phylogeny of the
subfamily has been little studied, resulting in taxonomic proposals that have
limited support from other datasets. We examined the evolution of 18 phenotypic
traits (5 continuous and 13 discrete), including pelage, skull, dentition,
postcrania, life-history and vocalization variables in a robust molecular
phylogeny of marmoset and tamarin monkeys, quantifying their phylogenetic signal 
and correlations among some of the traits. At the family level, our resulting
topology supports owl monkeys (Aotinae) as sister group of Callitrichinae. The
topology of the callitrichine tree was congruent with previous studies except for
the position of the midas group of Saguinus tamarins, which placement as sister
of the bicolor group did not receive significant statistical support in both
Maximum Parsimony and Bayesian Inference analyses. Our results showed that the
highest value of phylogenetic signal among continuous traits was displayed by the
long call character and the lowest was exhibited in the home range, intermediate 
values were found in characters related to osteology and skull size. Among
discrete traits, pelage and osteology had similar phylogenetic signal. Based on
genetic, osteological, pelage and vocalization data, we present an updated
genus-level taxonomy of Callitrichinae, which recognizes six genera in the
subfamily: Callimico, Callithrix, Cebuella, Mico, Leontopithecus and Saguinus. To
reflect their phenotypic distinctiveness and to avoid the use of the informal
"species group", we subdivided Saguinus in the subgenera Leontocebus, Saguinus
and Tamarinus (revalidated here).

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2017.10.002 
PMID: 28989098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

