

803. Front Neurosci. 2017 Sep 15;11:514. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2017.00514. eCollection
2017.

A Chronically Implantable Bidirectional Neural Interface for Non-human Primates.

Komatsu M(1), Sugano E(2), Tomita H(2), Fujii N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
RIKEN Brain Science InstituteSaitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biological Sciences, Iwate UniversityIwate, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Adaptive Intelligence, RIKEN Brain Science InstituteSaitama,
Japan.

Optogenetics has potential applications in the study of epilepsy and
neuroprostheses, and for studies on neural circuit dynamics. However, to achieve 
translation to clinical usage, optogenetic interfaces that are capable of chronic
stimulation and monitoring with minimal brain trauma are required. We aimed to
develop a chronically implantable device for photostimulation of the brain of
non-human primates. We used a micro-light-emitting diode (LED) array with a
flexible polyimide film. The array was combined with a whole-cortex
electrocorticographic (ECoG) electrode array for simultaneous photostimulation
and recording. Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) was virally transduced into the cerebral
cortex of common marmosets, and then the device was epidurally implanted into
their brains. We recorded the neural activity during photostimulation of the
awake monkeys for 4 months. The neural responses gradually increased after the
virus injection for ~8 weeks and remained constant for another 8 weeks. The
micro-LED and ECoG arrays allowed semi-invasive simultaneous stimulation and
recording during long-term implantation in the brains of non-human primates. The 
development of this device represents substantial progress in the field of
optogenetic applications.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2017.00514 
PMCID: PMC5605616
PMID: 28966573 


804. PLoS One. 2017 Sep 28;12(9):e0185695. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185695.
eCollection 2017.

Fathering style influences health outcome in common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
offspring.

Ziegler TE(1), Sosa ME(1), Colman RJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(2)Department of Cell and Regenerative Medicine, School of Medicine and Public
Health, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, United States of America.

In the cooperative breeding common marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, fathers
share the care responsibility and energetic load with their mate from the time
their infants are born. However, not all fathers show the same level of
participation in direct infant care. Here we present the first results
demonstrating that fathering style can improve both survival and growth
trajectory of a male's offspring during the first 30 weeks of life and that these
infant outcomes are consistent within a father throughout successive births.
Twenty-four marmoset fathers were tested for their responsiveness to an infant
distress call when their infants were approximately two weeks old. These fathers 
were categorized as either responsive (RS) or nonresponsive (NRS) based on their 
response to the calls. Survival past 1 month was then determined and bi-monthly
weights of current infants through 30 weeks of age were taken. Infant survival to
the first month was significantly higher with RS fathers than with NRS fathers
during this critical time period. Infants from RS fathers also had a higher
growth trajectory with significant differences in body weight in the 28th and
30th week after birth. Only the RS fathers showed a significant increase in serum
testosterone in response to infant cries suggesting a physiological role of
testosterone in the motivation to search for the infant. Furthermore, all
offspring born to RS fathers from subsequent births also showed a significantly
higher survival rate and higher growth trajectory than for offspring of NRS
fathers. These results suggest that fathering style is a consistent trait and
responsive fathers improve infant survival rate and growth during the first 30
weeks. Such fathering style traits may be passed on to the male offspring due to 
environmental or genetic factors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185695 
PMCID: PMC5619809
PMID: 28957433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

