

804. PLoS One. 2017 Sep 28;12(9):e0185695. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185695.
eCollection 2017.

Fathering style influences health outcome in common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
offspring.

Ziegler TE(1), Sosa ME(1), Colman RJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(2)Department of Cell and Regenerative Medicine, School of Medicine and Public
Health, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, United States of America.

In the cooperative breeding common marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, fathers
share the care responsibility and energetic load with their mate from the time
their infants are born. However, not all fathers show the same level of
participation in direct infant care. Here we present the first results
demonstrating that fathering style can improve both survival and growth
trajectory of a male's offspring during the first 30 weeks of life and that these
infant outcomes are consistent within a father throughout successive births.
Twenty-four marmoset fathers were tested for their responsiveness to an infant
distress call when their infants were approximately two weeks old. These fathers 
were categorized as either responsive (RS) or nonresponsive (NRS) based on their 
response to the calls. Survival past 1 month was then determined and bi-monthly
weights of current infants through 30 weeks of age were taken. Infant survival to
the first month was significantly higher with RS fathers than with NRS fathers
during this critical time period. Infants from RS fathers also had a higher
growth trajectory with significant differences in body weight in the 28th and
30th week after birth. Only the RS fathers showed a significant increase in serum
testosterone in response to infant cries suggesting a physiological role of
testosterone in the motivation to search for the infant. Furthermore, all
offspring born to RS fathers from subsequent births also showed a significantly
higher survival rate and higher growth trajectory than for offspring of NRS
fathers. These results suggest that fathering style is a consistent trait and
responsive fathers improve infant survival rate and growth during the first 30
weeks. Such fathering style traits may be passed on to the male offspring due to 
environmental or genetic factors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0185695 
PMCID: PMC5619809
PMID: 28957433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Neuroscience. 2017 Nov 19;364:143-156. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2017.09.021.
Epub 2017 Sep 20.

Developmental trajectories of macroanatomical structures in common marmoset
brain.

Seki F(1), Hikishima K(2), Komaki Y(3), Hata J(1), Uematsu A(1), Okahara N(4),
Yamamoto M(4), Shinohara H(4), Sasaki E(3), Okano H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan; Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Brain Science Institute
RIKEN, Wako, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan; Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University, Okinawa, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan.
(4)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(5)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Brain Science
Institute RIKEN, Wako, Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

Morphometry studies of human brain development have revealed characteristics of
some growth patterns, such as gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM), but the
features that make human neurodevelopment distinct from that in other species
remain unclear. Studies of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New 
World primate, can provide insights into unique features such as cooperative
behaviors complementary to those from comparative analyses using mouse and rhesus
monkey. In the present study, we analyzed developmental patterns of GM, WM, and
cortical regions with volume measurements using longitudinal sample (23
marmosets; 11 male, 12 female) between the ages of one and 30months. Regional
analysis using a total of 164 magnetic resonance imaging datasets revealed that
GM volume increased before puberty (5.4months), but subsequently declined until
adulthood, whereas WM volume increased rapidly before stabilizing around puberty 
(9.9months). Cortical regions showed similar patterns of increase and decrease,
patterns with global GM but differed in the timing of volume peak and degree of
decline across regions. The progressive-regressive pattern detected in both
global and cortical GM was well correlated to phases of synaptogenesis and
synaptic pruning reported in previous marmoset studies. A rapid increase in WM in
early development may represent a distinctive aspect of human neurodevelopment.
These findings suggest that studies of marmoset brain development can provide
valuable comparative information that will facilitate a deeper understanding of
human brain growth and neurodevelopmental disorders.

Copyright Â© 2017 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2017.09.021 
PMID: 28939259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

