

806. Neuroimage. 2017 Dec;163:55-67. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.09.028. Epub 2017 
Sep 18.

Mapping orbitofrontal-limbic maturation in non-human primates: A longitudinal
magnetic resonance imaging study.

Uematsu A(1), Hata J(1), Komaki Y(2), Seki F(1), Yamada C(3), Okahara N(3),
Kurotaki Y(3), Sasaki E(1), Okano H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan; RIKEN BSI Laboratory for Marmoset Neural
Architecture, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan; Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, 210-0821, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan; RIKEN BSI Laboratory for Marmoset Neural
Architecture, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku,
Kawasaki, 210-0821, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan; RIKEN BSI Laboratory for Marmoset Neural
Architecture, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address:
hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

Brain development involves spatiotemporally complex microstructural changes. A
number of neuropsychiatric disorders are linked to the neural processes of
development and aging. Thus, it is important to understanding the typical
developmental patterns of various brain structures, which will help to define
critical periods of vulnerability for neural maturation, as well as anatomical
mechanisms of brain structure-related neuropathology. In this study, we used
magnetic resonance imaging to assess development of the orbitofrontal cortex,
cingulate cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus in a non-human primate species, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We collected a total of 114 T2-weighted and
91 diffusion-weighted scans from 23 animals from infancy to early adulthood.
Quantitative and qualitative evaluation of age-related brain growth patterns
showed non-linear structural developmental changes in all measured brain regions,
consistent with reported human data. Overall, robust volumetric growth was
observed from 1 to 3 months of age (from infancy to the early juvenile period).
This rapid brain growth was associated with the largest decrease in mean, axial, 
and radial diffusivities of diffusion tensor imaging in all brain regions,
suggesting an increase in the number and size of cells, dendrites, and spines
during this period. After this developmental period, the volume of various brain 
regions steadily increased until adolescence (7-13 months of age, depending on
the region). Further, structural connectivity derived from tractography data in
various brain regions continuously changed from infancy to adolescence,
suggesting that the increase in brain volume was related to continued axonal
myelination during adolescence. Thereafter, the volume of the cortical regions
decreased considerably, while there was no change in subcortical regions.
Familial factors, rather than sex, contributed the development of the
front-limbic brain regions. Overall, this study provides further data on the
factors and timing important for normal brain development, and suggest that the
common marmoset is a useful animal model for human neural development.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.09.028 
PMID: 28923274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Infect Genet Evol. 2018 Sep;63:410-419. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2017.09.009. Epub
2017 Sep 15.

Accurate identification of Anopheles gambiae Giles trophic preferences by
MALDI-TOF MS.

Niare S(1), Tandina F(1), Davoust B(2), Doumbo O(3), Raoult D(2), Parola P(4),
Almeras L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Aix Marseille Université, Unité de Recherche en Maladies Infectieuses et
Tropicales Emergentes (URMITE), UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198 (Dakar, Sénégal), Inserm
1095, Faculté de Médecine, 27 bd Jean Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 5, France;
Malaria Research and Training Center, DEAP/FMOS, UMI 3189, University of Science,
Techniques and Technology, Bamako, Mali.
(2)Aix Marseille Université, Unité de Recherche en Maladies Infectieuses et
Tropicales Emergentes (URMITE), UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198 (Dakar, Sénégal), Inserm
1095, Faculté de Médecine, 27 bd Jean Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 5, France.
(3)Malaria Research and Training Center, DEAP/FMOS, UMI 3189, University of
Science, Techniques and Technology, Bamako, Mali.
(4)Aix Marseille Université, Unité de Recherche en Maladies Infectieuses et
Tropicales Emergentes (URMITE), UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198 (Dakar, Sénégal), Inserm
1095, Faculté de Médecine, 27 bd Jean Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 5, France.
Electronic address: philippe.parola@univ-amu.fr.
(5)Aix Marseille Université, Unité de Recherche en Maladies Infectieuses et
Tropicales Emergentes (URMITE), UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198 (Dakar, Sénégal), Inserm
1095, Faculté de Médecine, 27 bd Jean Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 5, France;
Unité de Parasitologie et Entomologie, Département des Maladies Infectieuses,
Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, Marseille, France.

The determination of the trophic preferences of the Anopheles gambiae Giles
(Diptera: Culicidae) is a decisive parameter for the monitoring and the
prevention of malaria risk transmission. Currently, arthropod blood feeding
sources are identified using immunological or molecular biology traditional
techniques. Despite the effectiveness of these methods, they present several
limitations, and notably, they are time-consuming and costly techniques. A recent
study demonstrated that MALDI-TOF MS could be a useful tool for the
identification of blood meal origins in freshly engorged mosquitoes. However, the
limited number of blood vertebrate species tested to date, did not allow an
assessment of the efficiency of MALDI-TOF MS in distinguishing blood MS spectra
among close host species, such as humans versus primates. Therefore, in the
present study, blood from ten distinct vertebrate host species, including four
domestic species, four wild species, and two primates, was selected to control
the reliability of MALDI-TOF MS based identification. Host blood species-specific
MS profiles, up to 24h post-feeding in engorged Anopheles abdomens, were
confirmed. Blind tests underlined the high specificity of MS spectra for the
recognition of each host species, preventing misidentification. Nevertheless, an 
accurate analysis of the results from MS spectra queried against the MS database 
revealed that the reliability of identification is directly linked to the
comprehensiveness of the MS reference database. Finally, the rapidity, the
low-cost reagents, the simplicity of data analysis, and the accuracy of the tool 
for blood origin determination, make this proteomic strategy a promising
complementary method for the elucidation of host/vector interactions.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2017.09.009 
PMID: 28919552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

