

811. J Comp Neurol. 2017 Dec 15;525(18):3962-3974. doi: 10.1002/cne.24319. Epub 2017
Sep 18.

Thorny ganglion cells in marmoset retina: Morphological and neurochemical
characterization with antibodies against calretinin.

Chandra AJ(1)(2), Lee SCS(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Ophthalmology, Save Sight Institute, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000,
Australia.
(3)Discipline of Anatomy & Histology, School of Medical Sciences, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000, Australia.

In primates, over 17 morphological types of retinal ganglion cell have been
distinguished by their dendritic morphology and stratification, but reliable
markers for specific ganglion cell populations are still rare. The calcium
binding protein calretinin is known to be expressed in the inner nuclear and the 
ganglion cell layer of marmoset retina, however, the specific cell type(s)
expressing calretinin in the ganglion cell layer are yet to be determined. Here, 
we identified calretinin positive retinal ganglion cells in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus. Double labeling with the ganglion cell marker RBPMS
demonstrated that the large majority (80%) of the calretinin positive cells in
the ganglion cell layer are ganglion cells, and 20% are displaced amacrine cells.
The calretinin positive ganglion cells made up on average 12% of the total
ganglion cell population outside of the foveal region and their proportion
increased with eccentricity. Prelabeling with antibodies against calretinin and
subsequent intracellular injection with DiI revealed that the large majority of
the injected cells (n = 74) were either narrow thorny or broad thorny ganglion
cells, 14 cells were displaced amacrine cells. Narrow thorny cells were further
distinguished into outer and inner stratifying cells. In addition, weakly labeled
cells with a large soma were identified as parasol ganglion cells. Our results
show that three types of thorny ganglion cells in marmoset retina can be
identified with antibodies against calretinin. Our findings are also consistent
with the idea that the proportion of wide-field ganglion cell types increases in 
peripheral retina.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24319 
PMID: 28875500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. PLoS One. 2017 Sep 1;12(9):e0184251. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0184251.
eCollection 2017.

A non-invasive specimen collection method and a novel simian foamy virus (SFV)
DNA quantification assay in New World primates reveal aspects of tissue tropism
and improved SFV detection.

Muniz CP(1)(2), Zheng H(2), Jia H(2), Cavalcante LTF(1), Augusto AM(3), Fedullo
LP(3), Pissinatti A(4), Soares MA(1)(5), Switzer WM(2), Santos AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of
America.
(3)Fundação Jardim Zoológico da Cidade do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Centro de Primatologia do Rio de Janeiro, Instituto Estadual de Ambiente, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Oncovirologia, Instituto Nacional de Câncer, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.

Simian foamy viruses (SFVs) co-evolved with a wide range of Old World and New
World primates (OWPs and NWPs, respectively) and occasionally transmit to humans.
Previous studies of OWPs showed that the predominant site of SFV replication is
the oral mucosa. However, very little is known about SFV viral loads (VLs) in the
oral mucosa or blood of NWPs. NWPs have smaller body sizes, limiting collection
of sufficient whole blood volumes to molecularly detect and quantify SFV. Our
study evaluated the use of noninvasively collected buccal swabs to detect NWP SFV
compared with detection in blood using a new NWP SFV quantitative PCR (qPCR)
assay. Buccal and blood samples were collected from 107 captive NWPs in Brazil
comprising eleven distinct genera at the Primate Center of Rio de Janeiro (n =
58) and at Fundação Jardim Zoológico da Cidade do Rio Janeiro (n = 49). NWP SFV
western blot (WB) testing was performed on a subset of animals for comparison
with PCR results. The qPCR assay was validated using distinct SFV polymerase
sequences from seven NWP genera (Callithrix, Sapajus, Saimiri, Ateles, Alouatta, 
Cacajao and Pithecia). Assay sensitivity was 20 copies/106 cells, detectable in
90% of replicates. SFV DNA VLs were higher in buccal swabs (5 log copies/106
cells) compared to peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) (3 log copies/106
cells). The qPCR assay was also more sensitive than nested PCR for detection of
NWP SFV infection and identified an additional 27 SFV-infected monkeys of which
18 (90%) were WB-positive and three that were WB-negative. We show the utility of
using both blood and buccal swabs and our new qPCR assay for detection and
quantification of diverse NWP SFV, which will assist a better understanding of
the epidemiology of SFV in NWPs and any potential zoonotic infection risk for
humans exposed to NWPs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0184251 
PMCID: PMC5581185
PMID: 28863180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

