

812. PLoS One. 2017 Sep 1;12(9):e0184251. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0184251.
eCollection 2017.

A non-invasive specimen collection method and a novel simian foamy virus (SFV)
DNA quantification assay in New World primates reveal aspects of tissue tropism
and improved SFV detection.

Muniz CP(1)(2), Zheng H(2), Jia H(2), Cavalcante LTF(1), Augusto AM(3), Fedullo
LP(3), Pissinatti A(4), Soares MA(1)(5), Switzer WM(2), Santos AF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of
America.
(3)Fundação Jardim Zoológico da Cidade do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Centro de Primatologia do Rio de Janeiro, Instituto Estadual de Ambiente, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Oncovirologia, Instituto Nacional de Câncer, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.

Simian foamy viruses (SFVs) co-evolved with a wide range of Old World and New
World primates (OWPs and NWPs, respectively) and occasionally transmit to humans.
Previous studies of OWPs showed that the predominant site of SFV replication is
the oral mucosa. However, very little is known about SFV viral loads (VLs) in the
oral mucosa or blood of NWPs. NWPs have smaller body sizes, limiting collection
of sufficient whole blood volumes to molecularly detect and quantify SFV. Our
study evaluated the use of noninvasively collected buccal swabs to detect NWP SFV
compared with detection in blood using a new NWP SFV quantitative PCR (qPCR)
assay. Buccal and blood samples were collected from 107 captive NWPs in Brazil
comprising eleven distinct genera at the Primate Center of Rio de Janeiro (n =
58) and at Fundação Jardim Zoológico da Cidade do Rio Janeiro (n = 49). NWP SFV
western blot (WB) testing was performed on a subset of animals for comparison
with PCR results. The qPCR assay was validated using distinct SFV polymerase
sequences from seven NWP genera (Callithrix, Sapajus, Saimiri, Ateles, Alouatta, 
Cacajao and Pithecia). Assay sensitivity was 20 copies/106 cells, detectable in
90% of replicates. SFV DNA VLs were higher in buccal swabs (5 log copies/106
cells) compared to peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) (3 log copies/106
cells). The qPCR assay was also more sensitive than nested PCR for detection of
NWP SFV infection and identified an additional 27 SFV-infected monkeys of which
18 (90%) were WB-positive and three that were WB-negative. We show the utility of
using both blood and buccal swabs and our new qPCR assay for detection and
quantification of diverse NWP SFV, which will assist a better understanding of
the epidemiology of SFV in NWPs and any potential zoonotic infection risk for
humans exposed to NWPs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0184251 
PMCID: PMC5581185
PMID: 28863180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Genome Res. 2017 Oct;27(10):1623-1633. doi: 10.1101/gr.218149.116. Epub 2017 Aug 
30.

Transposable elements are the primary source of novelty in primate gene
regulation.

Trizzino M(1)(2), Park Y(1)(2), Holsbach-Beltrame M(1), Aracena K(1), Mika K(3), 
Caliskan M(1)(2), Perry GH(4), Lynch VJ(3), Brown CD(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(2)Institute for Biomedical Informatics, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, 
USA.
(4)Departments of Anthropology and Biology, Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Gene regulation shapes the evolution of phenotypic diversity. We investigated the
evolution of liver promoters and enhancers in six primate species using ChIP-seq 
(H3K27ac and H3K4me1) to profile cis-regulatory elements (CREs) and using RNA-seq
to characterize gene expression in the same individuals. To quantify regulatory
divergence, we compared CRE activity across species by testing differential
ChIP-seq read depths directly measured for orthologous sequences. We show that
the primate regulatory landscape is largely conserved across the lineage, with
63% of the tested human liver CREs showing similar activity across species.
Conserved CRE function is associated with sequence conservation, proximity to
coding genes, cell-type specificity, and transcription factor binding. Newly
evolved CREs are enriched in immune response and neurodevelopmental functions. We
further demonstrate that conserved CREs bind master regulators, suggesting that
while CREs contribute to species adaptation to the environment, core functions
remain intact. Newly evolved CREs are enriched in young transposable elements
(TEs), including Long-Terminal-Repeats (LTRs) and SINE-VNTR-Alus (SVAs), that
significantly affect gene expression. Conversely, only 16% of conserved CREs
overlap TEs. We tested the cis-regulatory activity of 69 TE subfamilies by
luciferase reporter assays, spanning all major TE classes, and showed that 95.6% 
of tested TEs can function as either transcriptional activators or repressors. In
conclusion, we demonstrated the critical role of TEs in primate gene regulation
and illustrated potential mechanisms underlying evolutionary divergence among the
primate species through the noncoding genome.

© 2017 Trizzino et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.218149.116 
PMCID: PMC5630026
PMID: 28855262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

