

821. Exp Anim. 2018 Feb 9;67(1):31-39. doi: 10.1538/expanim.17-0058. Epub 2017 Aug 18.

Larger cages with housing unit environment enrichment improve the welfare of
marmosets.

Yoshimoto T(1), Takahashi E(1), Yamashita S(2), Ohara K(2), Niimi K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Resources Center, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, 
Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)O'HARA & CO., LTD., 4-28-16 Ekoda, Nakano-ku, Tokyo 165-0022, Japan.

The provision of adequate space for laboratory animals is essential not only for 
good welfare but accurate studies. For example, housing conditions for primates
used in biomedical research may negatively affect welfare and thus the
reliability of findings. In common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), an appropriate
cage size enables a socially harmonious family environment and optimizes
reproductive potential. In this study, we investigated the effects of cage size
on body weight (BW), behavior, and nursing succession in the common marmoset.
Large cages (LCs) with environment enrichment led to an increase in BW while
small cages (SCs) caused stereotypic behaviors that were not observed in LCs. In 
addition, the BW of infants increased with aging in LCs. Our findings indicate
that the welfare of marmosets was enhanced by living in LCs. Research on
non-human primates is essential for understanding the human brain and developing 
knowledge-based strategies for the diagnosis and treatment of psychiatric and
neurological disorders. Thus, the present findings are important because they
indicate that different cages may influence emotional and behavioral phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.17-0058 
PMCID: PMC5814312
PMID: 28824049  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Primate Biol. 2017 Aug 18;4(2):153-162. doi: 10.5194/pb-4-153-2017. eCollection
2017.

Overcoming barriers to reprogramming and differentiation in nonhuman primate
induced pluripotent stem cells.

Hemmi JJ(1), Mishra A(1), Hornsby PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute and Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health
Science Center San Antonio, San Antonio, TX 78245, USA.

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells) generated by cellular reprogramming
from nonhuman primates (NHPs) are of great significance for regenerative medicine
and for comparative biology. Autologously derived stem cells would theoretically 
avoid any risk of rejection due to host-donor mismatch and may bypass the need
for immune suppression post-transplant. In order for these possibilities to be
realized, reprogramming methodologies that were initially developed mainly for
human cells must be translated to NHPs. NHP studies have typically used
pluripotent cells generated from young animals and thus risk overlooking
complications that may arise from generating iPS cells from donors of other ages.
When reprogramming is extended to a wide range of NHP species, available donors
may be middle- or old-aged. Here we have pursued these questions by generating
iPS cells from donors across the life span of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and then subjecting them to a directed neural differentiation protocol. 
The differentiation potential of different clonal cell lines was assessed using
the quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The results show that cells derived
from older donors often showed less neural marker induction. These deficits were 
rescued by a 24 h pretreatment of the cells with 0.5 % dimethyl sulfoxide.
Another NHP that plays a key role in biological research is the chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes). iPS cells generated from the chimpanzee can be of great interest in
comparative in vitro studies. We investigated if similar deficits in
differentiation potential might arise in chimpanzee iPS cells reprogrammed using 
various technologies. The results show that, while some deficits were observed in
iPS cell clones generated using three different technologies, there was no clear 
association with the vector used. These deficits in differentiation were also
prevented by a 24 h pretreatment with 0.5 % dimethyl sulfoxide.

Copyright: © 2017 Jacob J. Hemmi et al.

DOI: 10.5194/pb-4-153-2017 
PMCID: PMC7041531
PMID: 32110703 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.

