

823. J Neurosci Methods. 2017 Nov 1;291:51-60. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.08.006.
Epub 2017 Aug 9.

Novel method of extracting motion from natural movies.

Suzuki W(1), Ichinohe N(2), Tani T(2), Hayami T(3), Miyakawa N(2), Watanabe S(3),
Takeichi H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan; Ichinohe
Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan. Electronic address:
watarus@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan; Ichinohe
Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Computational Engineering Applications Unit, Advanced Center for Computing and
Communication (ACCC), RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The visual system in primates can be segregated into motion and shape
pathways. Interaction occurs at multiple stages along these pathways. Processing 
of shape-from-motion and biological motion is considered to be a higher-order
integration process involving motion and shape information. However, relatively
limited types of stimuli have been used in previous studies on these integration 
processes.
NEW METHOD: We propose a new algorithm to extract object motion information from 
natural movies and to move random dots in accordance with the information. The
object motion information is extracted by estimating the dynamics of local normal
vectors of the image intensity projected onto the x-y plane of the movie.
RESULTS: An electrophysiological experiment on two adult common marmoset monkeys 
(Callithrix jacchus) showed that the natural and random dot movies generated with
this new algorithm yielded comparable neural responses in the middle temporal
visual area.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: In principle, this algorithm provided random
dot motion stimuli containing shape information for arbitrary natural movies.
This new method is expected to expand the neurophysiological and psychophysical
experimental protocols to elucidate the integration processing of motion and
shape information in biological systems.
CONCLUSIONS: The novel algorithm proposed here was effective in extracting object
motion information from natural movies and provided new motion stimuli to
investigate higher-order motion information processing.

Copyright © 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.08.006 
PMID: 28802702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2017 Sep 1;1061-1062:392-398. doi:
10.1016/j.jchromb.2017.07.007. Epub 2017 Jul 15.

Development and validation of a high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem
mass spectrometry method to quantify LY-354,740 in rat and marmoset plasma.

Gaudette F(1), Hamadjida A(2), Bédard D(2), Nuara SG(3), Beaudry F(4), Huot P(5).

Author information: 
(1)CRCHUM, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Electronic address:
fleur.gaudette.chum@ssss.gouv.qc.ca.
(2)CRCHUM, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resources Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada.
(4)CRCHUM, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animal du Québec, 
Département de Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire
Université de Montréal, Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec, Canada.
(5)CRCHUM, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie, Faculté de Médicine,
Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Unité des Troubles du Mouvement
André Barbeau, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada; Division of Neurology, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

LY-354,740 (eglumegad) is a selective and potent agonist of the metabotropic
glutamate group II receptors (mGluR2,3) that has already entered clinical trials 
as a potential anti-psychotic agent and therefore has well-documented
pharmacokinetic (PK), safety and tolerability profiles in human. Whereas its
development as an anti-psychotic agent has not been pursued, LY-354,740 may have 
potential in other neuroscience-related fields, notably anxiety and
neuro-protection. The common marmoset is a small primate that has long been used 
in neuroscience. However, given its small size and small circulating blood
volume, conducting PK studies to determine the therapeutic effectiveness of
LY-354,740 at clinically-relevant doses is challenging. Here, we have developed
and validated a simple, sensitive and selective analytical method that enables
quantification of LY-354,740 using a small volume of plasma. The analytical
method consisted of protein precipitation followed by high-performance liquid
chromatography with heat assisted electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry
(UHPLC-HESI-MS/MS). The chromatographic separation was achieved using gradient
elution with a mobile phase consisting of acetonitrile and 10mM ammonium formate 
(pH 3) on a Thermo Scientific Acclaim Trinity P1 analytical column (100x3.0mm
I.D., 3μm) operating at 45°C and at a flow rate of 900μl/min. The method displays
a linear relationship ranging from 20.0 to 5000ng/ml. Intra- and inter-day
relative standard deviations are less than 5.7% and 7.0%, respectively and the
accuracy ranged from 91.0 to 106.0%. The UHPLC-HESI-MS/MS analytical method we
describe here is simple, sensitive, specific and capable of quantifying
LY-354,740 in both rat and marmoset plasma, and is suitable to conduct PK studies
after a single sub-cutaneous dose of 1.0mg/kg or lower in both species.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2017.07.007 
PMID: 28802219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

