

824. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2017 Sep 1;1061-1062:392-398. doi:
10.1016/j.jchromb.2017.07.007. Epub 2017 Jul 15.

Development and validation of a high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem
mass spectrometry method to quantify LY-354,740 in rat and marmoset plasma.

Gaudette F(1), Hamadjida A(2), Bédard D(2), Nuara SG(3), Beaudry F(4), Huot P(5).

Author information: 
(1)CRCHUM, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Electronic address:
fleur.gaudette.chum@ssss.gouv.qc.ca.
(2)CRCHUM, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resources Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada.
(4)CRCHUM, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animal du Québec, 
Département de Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire
Université de Montréal, Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec, Canada.
(5)CRCHUM, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie, Faculté de Médicine,
Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Unité des Troubles du Mouvement
André Barbeau, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada; Division of Neurology, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

LY-354,740 (eglumegad) is a selective and potent agonist of the metabotropic
glutamate group II receptors (mGluR2,3) that has already entered clinical trials 
as a potential anti-psychotic agent and therefore has well-documented
pharmacokinetic (PK), safety and tolerability profiles in human. Whereas its
development as an anti-psychotic agent has not been pursued, LY-354,740 may have 
potential in other neuroscience-related fields, notably anxiety and
neuro-protection. The common marmoset is a small primate that has long been used 
in neuroscience. However, given its small size and small circulating blood
volume, conducting PK studies to determine the therapeutic effectiveness of
LY-354,740 at clinically-relevant doses is challenging. Here, we have developed
and validated a simple, sensitive and selective analytical method that enables
quantification of LY-354,740 using a small volume of plasma. The analytical
method consisted of protein precipitation followed by high-performance liquid
chromatography with heat assisted electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry
(UHPLC-HESI-MS/MS). The chromatographic separation was achieved using gradient
elution with a mobile phase consisting of acetonitrile and 10mM ammonium formate 
(pH 3) on a Thermo Scientific Acclaim Trinity P1 analytical column (100x3.0mm
I.D., 3μm) operating at 45°C and at a flow rate of 900μl/min. The method displays
a linear relationship ranging from 20.0 to 5000ng/ml. Intra- and inter-day
relative standard deviations are less than 5.7% and 7.0%, respectively and the
accuracy ranged from 91.0 to 106.0%. The UHPLC-HESI-MS/MS analytical method we
describe here is simple, sensitive, specific and capable of quantifying
LY-354,740 in both rat and marmoset plasma, and is suitable to conduct PK studies
after a single sub-cutaneous dose of 1.0mg/kg or lower in both species.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2017.07.007 
PMID: 28802219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Biochem Pharmacol. 2017 Nov 15;144:149-161. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.08.004. Epub 
2017 Aug 9.

Insight into the mode of action and selectivity of PBRM, a covalent steroidal
inhibitor of 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1.

Trottier A(1), Maltais R(1), Ayan D(1), Barbeau X(2), Roy J(1), Perreault M(1),
Poulin R(1), Lagüe P(3), Poirier D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry, Endocrinology and Nephrology Unit, CHU de
Québec - Research Center (CHUL, T4), Québec, QC, Canada.
(2)Département de Chimie, Institut de Biologie Intégrative et Des Systèmes
(IBIS), and Centre de Recherche sur la Fonction, la Structure et l'Ingénierie des
Protéines (PROTEO), Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(3)Département de Biochimie Microbiologie et Bio-informatique, Institut de
Biologie Intégrative et des Systèmes (IBIS), and Centre de Recherche sur la
Fonction, la Structure et l'Ingénierie des Protéines (PROTEO), Université Laval, 
Québec, QC, Canada.
(4)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry, Endocrinology and Nephrology Unit, CHU de
Québec - Research Center (CHUL, T4), Québec, QC, Canada; Department of Molecular 
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada. Electronic
address: donald.poirier@crchul.ulaval.ca.

17β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (17β-HSD1) is involved in the
biosynthesis of estradiol, the major bioactive endogenous estrogen in mammals,
and constitutes an interesting therapeutic target for estrogen-dependent
diseases. A steroidal derivative,
3-{[(16β,17β)-3-(2-bromoethyl)-17-hydroxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-16-yl]methyl}
benzamide (PBRM), has recently been described as a non-estrogenic, irreversible
inhibitor of 17β-HSD1. However, the mode of action of this inhibitor and its
selectivity profile have not yet been elucidated. We assessed PBRM potency via in
vitro kinetic measurements. The mechanism of enzyme inactivation was also
investigated using interspecies (human, mouse, pig and monkey) comparisons via
both in vitro assays and in silico analysis. Mouse and human plasma protein
binding of PBRM was determined, whereas its selectivity of action was studied
using a wide range of potential off-targets (e.g. GPCR, hERG, CYPs, etc.). The
affinity constant (Ki=368nM) and the enzyme inactivation rate (kinact=0.087min-1)
values for PBRM were determined with purified 17β-HSD1. PBRM was found to be
covalently linked to the enzyme. A long delay period (i.e. 3-5days) is required
to recover 17β-HSD1 activity following a pretreatment of breast and placenta cell
lines with PBRM. Mechanistic analyses showed important interspecies differences
of 17β-HSD1 inhibition which support the importance of inactivation for PBRM
effect. Evidences of the potency and selectivity of action presented herein for
this first non-estrogenic and steroidal covalent irreversible inhibitor of
17β-HSD1 warrant its further development as a potential drug candidate for
estrogen-dependent disorders.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.08.004 
PMID: 28800957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

