

839. Behav Res Methods. 2018 Jun;50(3):1154-1165. doi: 10.3758/s13428-017-0934-2.

A technological framework for running and analyzing animal head turning
experiments.

Oh J(1), Hoeschele M(2), Reber SA(2)(3), Å lipogor V(2), Bugnyar T(2), Fitch
WT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090,
Vienna, Austria. jinook.oh@univie.ac.at.
(2)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090,
Vienna, Austria.
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6
7TS, UK.

Head turning experiments are widely used to test the cognition of both human
infants and non-human animal species. Monitoring head turns allows researchers to
non-invasively assess attention to acoustic or visual stimuli. In the majority of
head turning experiments, the head direction analyses have been accomplished
manually, which is extremely labor intensive and can be affected by subjectivity 
or other human errors and limitations. In the current study, we introduce an
open-source computer program for measuring head directions of freely moving
animals including common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), American
alligators (Alligator mississippiensis), and Mongolian gerbils (Meriones
unguiculatus) to reduce human effort and time in video coding. We also illustrate
an exemplary framework for an animal head turning experiment with common marmoset
monkeys. This framework incorporates computer-aided processes of data
acquisition, preprocessing, and analysis using the aforementioned software and
additional open-source software and hardware.

DOI: 10.3758/s13428-017-0934-2 
PMCID: PMC5990564
PMID: 28710717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Gen Virol. 2017 Jul;98(7):1620-1629. doi: 10.1099/jgv.0.000842. Epub 2017 Jul
15.

The P gene of rodent brain-adapted measles virus plays a critical role in
neurovirulence.

Arai T(1), Terao-Muto Y(1), Uchida S(1), Lin C(1), Honda T(1), Takenaka A(1),
Ikeda F(1), Sato H(1), Yoneda M(1), Kai C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Research Center, Institute of Medical Science, The
University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.

In rare cases, measles virus (MV) in children leads to fatal neurological
complications such as primary measles encephalitis, post-acute measles
encephalitis, subacute sclerosing panencephalitis and measles inclusion-body
encephalitis. To investigate the pathogenesis of MV-induced encephalitis, rodent 
brain-adapted MV strains CAM/RB and CAMR40 were generated. These strains acquired
mutations to adapt to the rodent brain during 40 passages in rat brain. However, 
it is still unknown which genes confer the neurovirulence of MV. We previously
established a rescue system for recombinant MVs possessing the backbone of
wild-type strain HL, an avirulent strain in mice. In the present study, to
identify the genes in CAMR40 that elicit neurovirulence, we generated chimeric
recombinant MVs based on strain HL. As a result, recombinant wild-type MV in
which the haemagglutinin (H) gene was substituted with that of CAMR40 caused a
non-lethal mild disease in mice, while additional substitution of the HL
phosphoprotein (P) gene with that of strain CAMR40 caused lethal severe
neurological signs comparable to those of CAMR40. These results clearly indicated
that, in addition to the H gene, the P gene is required for the neurovirulence of
MV CAMR40.

DOI: 10.1099/jgv.0.000842 
PMID: 28708054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

