

840. J Gen Virol. 2017 Jul;98(7):1620-1629. doi: 10.1099/jgv.0.000842. Epub 2017 Jul
15.

The P gene of rodent brain-adapted measles virus plays a critical role in
neurovirulence.

Arai T(1), Terao-Muto Y(1), Uchida S(1), Lin C(1), Honda T(1), Takenaka A(1),
Ikeda F(1), Sato H(1), Yoneda M(1), Kai C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Research Center, Institute of Medical Science, The
University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.

In rare cases, measles virus (MV) in children leads to fatal neurological
complications such as primary measles encephalitis, post-acute measles
encephalitis, subacute sclerosing panencephalitis and measles inclusion-body
encephalitis. To investigate the pathogenesis of MV-induced encephalitis, rodent 
brain-adapted MV strains CAM/RB and CAMR40 were generated. These strains acquired
mutations to adapt to the rodent brain during 40 passages in rat brain. However, 
it is still unknown which genes confer the neurovirulence of MV. We previously
established a rescue system for recombinant MVs possessing the backbone of
wild-type strain HL, an avirulent strain in mice. In the present study, to
identify the genes in CAMR40 that elicit neurovirulence, we generated chimeric
recombinant MVs based on strain HL. As a result, recombinant wild-type MV in
which the haemagglutinin (H) gene was substituted with that of CAMR40 caused a
non-lethal mild disease in mice, while additional substitution of the HL
phosphoprotein (P) gene with that of strain CAMR40 caused lethal severe
neurological signs comparable to those of CAMR40. These results clearly indicated
that, in addition to the H gene, the P gene is required for the neurovirulence of
MV CAMR40.

DOI: 10.1099/jgv.0.000842 
PMID: 28708054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Parasitol Res. 2017 Sep;116(9):2479-2488. doi: 10.1007/s00436-017-5552-5. Epub
2017 Jul 13.

Morphological, ultrastructural, and molecular characterization of intestinal
tetratrichomonads isolated from non-human primates in southeastern Brazil.

Dos Santos CS(1), de Jesus VLT(2), McIntosh D(3), Carreiro CC(4), Batista LCO(4),
do Bomfim Lopes B(5), Neves DM(6), Lopes CWG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Veterinárias, Anexo 1, Instituto de
Veterinária (IV), Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro (UFRRJ), BR-465 Km
7, Seropédica, RJ, 23897-970, Brazil. carolinespitz@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Departamento de Avaliação e Reprodução Animal, Instituto de Zootecnia, UFRRJ, 
BR-465 Km 7, Seropédica, RJ, 23897-970, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Parasitologia Animal, IV, UFRRJ, BR-465 Km 7, Seropédica, RJ, 
23897-970, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Veterinárias, Anexo 1, Instituto de
Veterinária (IV), Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro (UFRRJ), BR-465 Km
7, Seropédica, RJ, 23897-970, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação Agropecuária,
Anexo 1, Instituto de Veterinária (IV), Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de
Janeiro (UFRRJ), BR-465 Km 7, Seropédica, RJ, 23897-970, Brazil.
(6)Horto Florestal Mário Xavier, Centro de Triagem de Animais Silvestres,
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais
Renováveis/IBAMA/Ministério do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Renováveis, Seropédica,
RJ, 23835-400, Brazil.

Non-human primates are our closest relatives and represent an interesting model
for comparative parasitological studies. However, research on this topic
particularly in relation to intestinal parasites has been fragmentary and limited
mainly to animals held in captivity. Thus, our knowledge of host-parasite
relationships in this species-rich group of mammals could be considered
rudimentary. The current study combined morphological, ultrastructural, and
molecular analyses to characterize isolates of intestinal tetratrichomonads
recovered from the feces of three species of South American, non-human primates. 
Fecal samples were collected from 16 animals, representing 12 distinct species.
Parabasalid-like organisms were evident in five samples (31%) of feces: two from 
Alouatta sara, two from Callithrix penicillata, and one from Sapajus apella. The 
five samples presented morphologies consistent with the description of
Tetratrichomonas sp., with four anterior flagella of unequal length, a
well-developed undulating membrane, and a long recurrent flagellum. Sequencing of
the ITS1-5.8S rRNA-ITS2 region demonstrated that the isolates from A. sara, and
C. penicillata were closely related and highly similar to isolates of
Tetratrichomonas brumpti, recovered previously from tortoises (Geochelone sp.).
The flagellate recovered from S. apella demonstrated a similar morphology to
those of the other isolates, however, sequence analysis showed it to be identical
to an isolate of Tetratrichomonas sp. recovered from white-lipped peccaries
(Tayassu pecari). The findings of this study extend and enhance our knowledge of 
parasitism of non-human primates by members of the genus Tetratrichomonas and
indicate that the host range of these parasites is broader than previously
believed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-017-5552-5 
PMID: 28702802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

