

841. Parasitol Res. 2017 Sep;116(9):2479-2488. doi: 10.1007/s00436-017-5552-5. Epub
2017 Jul 13.

Morphological, ultrastructural, and molecular characterization of intestinal
tetratrichomonads isolated from non-human primates in southeastern Brazil.

Dos Santos CS(1), de Jesus VLT(2), McIntosh D(3), Carreiro CC(4), Batista LCO(4),
do Bomfim Lopes B(5), Neves DM(6), Lopes CWG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Veterinárias, Anexo 1, Instituto de
Veterinária (IV), Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro (UFRRJ), BR-465 Km
7, Seropédica, RJ, 23897-970, Brazil. carolinespitz@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Departamento de Avaliação e Reprodução Animal, Instituto de Zootecnia, UFRRJ, 
BR-465 Km 7, Seropédica, RJ, 23897-970, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Parasitologia Animal, IV, UFRRJ, BR-465 Km 7, Seropédica, RJ, 
23897-970, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Veterinárias, Anexo 1, Instituto de
Veterinária (IV), Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro (UFRRJ), BR-465 Km
7, Seropédica, RJ, 23897-970, Brazil.
(5)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação Agropecuária,
Anexo 1, Instituto de Veterinária (IV), Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de
Janeiro (UFRRJ), BR-465 Km 7, Seropédica, RJ, 23897-970, Brazil.
(6)Horto Florestal Mário Xavier, Centro de Triagem de Animais Silvestres,
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais
Renováveis/IBAMA/Ministério do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Renováveis, Seropédica,
RJ, 23835-400, Brazil.

Non-human primates are our closest relatives and represent an interesting model
for comparative parasitological studies. However, research on this topic
particularly in relation to intestinal parasites has been fragmentary and limited
mainly to animals held in captivity. Thus, our knowledge of host-parasite
relationships in this species-rich group of mammals could be considered
rudimentary. The current study combined morphological, ultrastructural, and
molecular analyses to characterize isolates of intestinal tetratrichomonads
recovered from the feces of three species of South American, non-human primates. 
Fecal samples were collected from 16 animals, representing 12 distinct species.
Parabasalid-like organisms were evident in five samples (31%) of feces: two from 
Alouatta sara, two from Callithrix penicillata, and one from Sapajus apella. The 
five samples presented morphologies consistent with the description of
Tetratrichomonas sp., with four anterior flagella of unequal length, a
well-developed undulating membrane, and a long recurrent flagellum. Sequencing of
the ITS1-5.8S rRNA-ITS2 region demonstrated that the isolates from A. sara, and
C. penicillata were closely related and highly similar to isolates of
Tetratrichomonas brumpti, recovered previously from tortoises (Geochelone sp.).
The flagellate recovered from S. apella demonstrated a similar morphology to
those of the other isolates, however, sequence analysis showed it to be identical
to an isolate of Tetratrichomonas sp. recovered from white-lipped peccaries
(Tayassu pecari). The findings of this study extend and enhance our knowledge of 
parasitism of non-human primates by members of the genus Tetratrichomonas and
indicate that the host range of these parasites is broader than previously
believed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-017-5552-5 
PMID: 28702802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. J Neurophysiol. 2017 Oct 1;118(4):2024-2033. doi: 10.1152/jn.00670.2016. Epub
2017 Jul 12.

Decoding sound level in the marmoset primary auditory cortex.

Sun W(1), Marongelli EN(1), Watkins PV(1), Barbour DL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, Missouri.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, Missouri dbarbour@wustl.edu.

Neurons that respond favorably to a particular sound level have been observed
throughout the central auditory system, becoming steadily more common at higher
processing areas. One theory about the role of these level-tuned or nonmonotonic 
neurons is the level-invariant encoding of sounds. To investigate this theory, we
simulated various subpopulations of neurons by drawing from real primary auditory
cortex (A1) neuron responses and surveyed their performance in forming different 
sound level representations. Pure nonmonotonic subpopulations did not provide the
best level-invariant decoding; instead, mixtures of monotonic and nonmonotonic
neurons provided the most accurate decoding. For level-fidelity decoding, the
inclusion of nonmonotonic neurons slightly improved or did not change decoding
accuracy until they constituted a high proportion. These results indicate that
nonmonotonic neurons fill an encoding role complementary to, rather than
alternate to, monotonic neurons.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Neurons with nonmonotonic
rate-level functions are unique to the central auditory system. These level-tuned
neurons have been proposed to account for invariant sound perception across sound
levels. Through systematic simulations based on real neuron responses, this study
shows that neuron populations perform sound encoding optimally when containing
both monotonic and nonmonotonic neurons. The results indicate that instead of
working independently, nonmonotonic neurons complement the function of monotonic 
neurons in different sound-encoding contexts.

Copyright © 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00670.2016 
PMCID: PMC5626894
PMID: 28701545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

