

845. Xenobiotica. 2018 Jul;48(7):720-726. doi: 10.1080/00498254.2017.1353716. Epub
2017 Jul 25.

Effects of aging and rifampicin pretreatment on the pharmacokinetics of human
cytochrome P450 probes caffeine, warfarin, omeprazole, metoprolol and midazolam
in common marmosets genotyped for cytochrome P450 2C19.

Toda A(1), Uehara S(2), Inoue T(3), Utoh M(1)(2), Kusama T(2), Shimizu M(2), Uno 
Y(1), Mogi M(1), Sasaki E(4)(5), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)a Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories Ltd. , Kainan , Japan.
(2)b Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics , Showa Pharmaceutical
University , Tokyo , Japan.
(3)c Marmoset Research Department, Central Institute for Experimental Animals ,
Kawasaki , Japan.
(4)d Center of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for Experimental 
Animals , Kawasaki , Japan , and.
(5)e Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University , Tokyo , Japan.

1. The pharmacokinetics were investigated for human cytochrome P450 probes after 
single intravenous and oral administrations of 0.20 and 1.0 mg/kg, respectively, 
of caffeine, warfarin, omeprazole, metoprolol and midazolam to aged (10-14 years 
old, n = 4) or rifampicin-treated/young (3 years old, n = 3) male common
marmosets all genotyped as heterozygous for a cytochrome P450 2C19 variant. 2.
Slopes of the plasma concentration-time curves after intravenous administration
of warfarin and midazolam were slightly, but significantly (two-way analysis of
variance), decreased in aged marmosets compared with young marmosets. The mean
hepatic clearances determined by in silico fitting for individual pharmacokinetic
models of warfarin and midazolam in the aged group were, respectively, 23% and
56% smaller than those for the young group. 3. Significantly enhanced plasma
clearances of caffeine, warfarin, omeprazole and midazolam were evident in young 
marmosets pretreated with rifampicin (25 mg/kg daily for 4 days). Two- to
three-fold increases in hepatic intrinsic clearance values were observed in the
individual pharmacokinetic models. 4. The in vivo dispositions of multiple
simultaneously administered drugs in old, young and P450-enzyme-induced marmosets
were elucidated. The results suggest that common marmosets could be experimental 
models for aged, induced or polymorphic P450 enzymes in P450-dependent drug
metabolism studies.

DOI: 10.1080/00498254.2017.1353716 
PMID: 28686070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2017 Nov 1;313(5):E507-E514. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.00058.2017. Epub 2017 Jul 5.

Extraovarian gonadotropin negative feedback revealed by aromatase inhibition in
female marmoset monkeys.

Kraynak M(1)(2)(3), Flowers MT(4), Shapiro RA(4), Kapoor A(3), Levine JE(4)(3),
Abbott DH(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology and Reproductive Physiology Program, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin; Kraynak@wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin; and.

Whereas the ovary produces the majority of estradiol (E2) in mature female
primates, extraovarian sources contribute to E2 synthesis and action, including
the brain E2-regulating hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone. In
ovary-intact female rodent models, aromatase inhibition (AI) induces a polycystic
ovary syndrome-like hypergonadotropic hyperandrogenism due to absent E2-mediated 
negative feedback. To examine the role of extraovarian E2 on nonhuman primate
gonadotropin regulation, the present study uses letrozole to elicit AI in adult
female marmoset monkeys. Sixteen female marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; >2 yr)
were randomly assigned to ovary-intact or ovariectomy (OVX) conditions and
subsequently placed on a daily oral regimen of either ~200 µl vehicle alone
(ovary-intact Control, n = 3; OVX, n = 3) or 1 mg ⋅ kg-1 ⋅ day-1 letrozole in
vehicle (ovary-intact AI, n = 4; OVX + AI, n = 6). Blood samples were collected
every 10 days, and plasma chorionic gonadotropin (CG) and steroid hormone levels 
were determined by validated radioimmunoassay and liquid chromatography/tandem
mass spectrometry, respectively. Ovary-intact, AI-treated and OVX females
exhibited elevated CG (P < 0.01, P = 0.004, respectively) compared with controls,
and after 30 days, OVX + AI females exhibited a suprahypergonadotropic phenotype 
(P = 0.004) compared with ovary-intact + AI and OVX females. Androstenedione (P =
0.03) and testosterone (P = 0.05) were also elevated in ovary-intact, AI-treated 
females above all other groups. The current study thus confirms in a nonhuman
primate that E2 depletion and diminished negative feedback in ovary-intact
females engage hypergonadotropic hyperandrogenism. Additionally, we demonstrate
that extraovarian estrogens, possibly neuroestrogens, contribute to female
negative feedback regulation of gonadotropin release.

Copyright © 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00058.2017 
PMCID: PMC5792143
PMID: 28679622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

