

848. Neuroimage. 2018 Oct 15;180(Pt A):41-67. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.06.068.
Epub 2017 Jun 27.

Interpreting the dimensions of neural feature representations revealed by
dimensionality reduction.

Goddard E(1), Klein C(2), Solomon SG(3), Hogendoorn H(4), Carlson TA(5).

Author information: 
(1)McGill Vision Research, Dept of Ophthalmology, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, H3G 1A4, Canada; School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
2006, Australia; ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and Its Disorders (CCD),
Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW, 2109, Australia. Electronic address:
erin.goddard@mcgill.ca.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and Its Disorders (CCD), Macquarie
University, Sydney, NSW, 2109, Australia; Department of Philosophy, Macquarie
University, Sydney, NSW, 2109, Australia.
(3)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, Gower
Street, London, WC1E 6BT, United Kingdom.
(4)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2006, Australia;
Helmholtz Institute, Neuroscience & Cognition Utrecht, Experimental Psychology
Division, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(5)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2006, Australia; ARC 
Centre of Excellence in Cognition and Its Disorders (CCD), Macquarie University, 
Sydney, NSW, 2109, Australia.

Recent progress in understanding the structure of neural representations in the
cerebral cortex has centred around the application of multivariate classification
analyses to measurements of brain activity. These analyses have proved a
sensitive test of whether given brain regions provide information about specific 
perceptual or cognitive processes. An exciting extension of this approach is to
infer the structure of this information, thereby drawing conclusions about the
underlying neural representational space. These approaches rely on exploratory
data-driven dimensionality reduction to extract the natural dimensions of neural 
spaces, including natural visual object and scene representations, semantic and
conceptual knowledge, and working memory. However, the efficacy of these
exploratory methods is unknown, because they have only been applied to
representations in brain areas for which we have little or no secondary
knowledge. One of the best-understood areas of the cerebral cortex is area MT of 
primate visual cortex, which is known to be important in motion analysis. To
assess the effectiveness of dimensionality reduction for recovering neural
representational space we applied several dimensionality reduction methods to
multielectrode measurements of spiking activity obtained from area MT of marmoset
monkeys, made while systematically varying the motion direction and speed of
moving stimuli. Despite robust tuning at individual electrodes, and high
classifier performance, dimensionality reduction rarely revealed dimensions for
direction and speed. We use this example to illustrate important limitations of
these analyses, and suggest a framework for how to best apply such methods to
data where the structure of the neural representation is unknown.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.06.068 
PMID: 28663068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Comp Med. 2017 Jun 1;67(3):253-262.

Animal Models of Ebolavirus Infection.

St Claire MC(1), Ragland DR(2), Bollinger L(2), Jahrling PB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Research Facility, Division of Clinical Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Frederick, Maryland;, Email: stclairem@niaid.nih.gov.
(2)Integrated Research Facility, Division of Clinical Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health,
Frederick, Maryland.
(3)Integrated Research Facility, Division of Clinical Research, Emerging Viral
Pathogens Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Frederick, Maryland.

Ebola virus is a highly pathogenic member of the family Filoviridae that causes a
severe hemorrhagic disease in humans and NHP. The 2013-2016 West African outbreak
has increased interest in the development and refinement of animal models of
Ebola virus disease. These models are used to test countermeasures and vaccines, 
gain scientific insights into the mechanisms of disease progression and
transmission, and study key correlates of immunology. Ebola virus is classified
as a BSL4 pathogen and Category A agent, for which the United States government
requires preparedness in case of bioterrorism. Rodents, such as Syrian golden
hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), mice (Mus musculus), and guinea pigs (Cavia
porcellus), are the most common research species. However, NHP, especially
macaques, are favored for Ebola virus disease research due to similarities with
humans regarding the pathogenesis, clinical presentation, laboratory findings,
and causes of fatality. To satisfy the regulatory requirements for approval of
countermeasures against high-consequence pathogens, the FDA instituted the Animal
Rule, which permits efficacy studies in animal models in place of human clinical 
data when such studies are not feasible or ethical. This review provides a
comprehensive summary of various animal models and their use in Ebola virus
disease research.


PMCID: PMC5482517
PMID: 28662754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

