

854. Stem Cells Dev. 2017 Sep 1;26(17):1225-1235. doi: 10.1089/scd.2017.0069. Epub
2017 Jul 24.

Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Dopaminergic Neurons from Adult Common
Marmoset Fibroblasts.

Vermilyea SC(1)(2), Guthrie S(2), Meyer M(2), Smuga-Otto K(2)(3), Braun K(2),
Howden S(3), Thomson JA(2)(3)(4), Zhang SC(5), Emborg ME(1)(2)(6), Golos
TG(2)(7).

Author information: 
(1)1 Neuroscience Training Program, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison,
Wisconsin.
(2)2 Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
, Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)3 Morgridge Institute for Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison,
Wisconsin.
(4)4 Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, University of Wisconsin-Madison
, Madison, Wisconsin.
(5)5 Department of Neuroscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison,
Wisconsin.
(6)6 Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison,
Wisconsin.
(7)7 Department of Comparative Biosciences and Obstetrics and Gynecology,
University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison, Wisconsin.

The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus; Cj) is an advantageous nonhuman
primate species for modeling age-related disorders, including Parkinson's
disease, due to their shorter life span compared to macaques. Cj-derived induced 
pluripotent stem cells (Cj-iPSCs) from somatic cells are needed for in vitro
disease modeling and testing regenerative medicine approaches. Here we report the
development of a novel Cj-iPSC line derived from adult marmoset fibroblasts. The 
Cj-iPSCs showed potent pluripotency properties, including the development of
mesodermal lineages in tumors after injection to immunocompromised mice, as well 
as ectoderm and endoderm lineages after in vitro differentiation regimens,
demonstrating differentiated derivatives of all three embryonic layers. In
addition, expression of key pluripotency genes (ZFP42, PODXL, DNMT3B, C-MYC,
LIN28, KLF4, NANOG, SOX2, and OCT4) was observed. We then tested the neural
differentiation capacity and gene expression profiles of Cj-iPSCs and a marmoset 
embryonic stem cell line (Cj-ESC) after dual-SMAD inhibition. Exposure to
CHIR99021 and sonic hedgehog (SHH) for 12 and 16 days, respectively, patterned
the cells toward a ventralized midbrain dopaminergic phenotype, confirmed by
expression of FOXA2, OTX2, EN-1, and tyrosine hydroxylase. These results
demonstrate that common marmoset stem cells will be able to serve as a platform
for investigating regenerative medicine approaches targeting the dopaminergic
system.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2017.0069 
PMCID: PMC5576272
PMID: 28635509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Neurosci. 2017 Jul 19;37(29):7008-7022. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0093-17.2017.
Epub 2017 Jun 20.

Representations of Time-Varying Cochlear Implant Stimulation in Auditory Cortex
of Awake Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Johnson LA(1), Della Santina CC(1)(2), Wang X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering and xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Comment in
    J Neurosci. 2018 Jan 10;38(2):260-262.

Electrical stimulation of the auditory periphery organ by cochlear implant (CI)
generates highly synchronized inputs to the auditory system. It has long been
thought such inputs would lead to highly synchronized neural firing along the
ascending auditory pathway. However, neurophysiological studies with hearing
animals have shown that the central auditory system progressively converts
temporal representations of time-varying sounds to firing rate-based
representations. It is not clear whether this coding principle also applies to
highly synchronized CI inputs. Higher-frequency modulations in CI stimulation
have been found to evoke largely transient responses with little sustained firing
in previous studies of the primary auditory cortex (A1) in anesthetized animals. 
Here, we show that, in addition to neurons displaying synchronized firing to CI
stimuli, a large population of A1 neurons in awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
responded to rapid time-varying CI stimulation with discharges that were not
synchronized to CI stimuli, yet reflected changing repetition frequency by
increased firing rate. Marmosets of both sexes were included in this study. By
comparing directly each neuron's responses to time-varying acoustic and CI
signals, we found that individual A1 neurons encode both modalities with similar 
firing patterns (stimulus-synchronized or nonsynchronized). These findings
suggest that A1 neurons use the same basic coding schemes to represent
time-varying acoustic or CI stimulation and provide new insights into mechanisms 
underlying how the brain processes natural sounds via a CI device.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT In modern cochlear implant (CI) processors, the temporal information in
speech or environmental sounds is delivered through modulated electric pulse
trains. How the auditory cortex represents temporally modulated CI stimulation
across multiple time scales has remained largely unclear. In this study, we
compared directly neuronal responses in primary auditory cortex (A1) to
time-varying acoustic and CI signals in awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). We found that A1 neurons encode both modalities using similar coding
schemes, but some important differences were identified. Our results provide
insights into mechanisms underlying how the brain processes sounds via a CI
device and suggest a candidate neural code underlying rate-pitch perception
limitations often observed in CI users.

Copyright Â© 2017 the authors 0270-6474/17/377008-15$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0093-17.2017 
PMCID: PMC5518426
PMID: 28634306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

