

855. J Neurosci. 2017 Jul 19;37(29):7008-7022. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0093-17.2017.
Epub 2017 Jun 20.

Representations of Time-Varying Cochlear Implant Stimulation in Auditory Cortex
of Awake Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Johnson LA(1), Della Santina CC(1)(2), Wang X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering and xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Comment in
    J Neurosci. 2018 Jan 10;38(2):260-262.

Electrical stimulation of the auditory periphery organ by cochlear implant (CI)
generates highly synchronized inputs to the auditory system. It has long been
thought such inputs would lead to highly synchronized neural firing along the
ascending auditory pathway. However, neurophysiological studies with hearing
animals have shown that the central auditory system progressively converts
temporal representations of time-varying sounds to firing rate-based
representations. It is not clear whether this coding principle also applies to
highly synchronized CI inputs. Higher-frequency modulations in CI stimulation
have been found to evoke largely transient responses with little sustained firing
in previous studies of the primary auditory cortex (A1) in anesthetized animals. 
Here, we show that, in addition to neurons displaying synchronized firing to CI
stimuli, a large population of A1 neurons in awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
responded to rapid time-varying CI stimulation with discharges that were not
synchronized to CI stimuli, yet reflected changing repetition frequency by
increased firing rate. Marmosets of both sexes were included in this study. By
comparing directly each neuron's responses to time-varying acoustic and CI
signals, we found that individual A1 neurons encode both modalities with similar 
firing patterns (stimulus-synchronized or nonsynchronized). These findings
suggest that A1 neurons use the same basic coding schemes to represent
time-varying acoustic or CI stimulation and provide new insights into mechanisms 
underlying how the brain processes natural sounds via a CI device.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT In modern cochlear implant (CI) processors, the temporal information in
speech or environmental sounds is delivered through modulated electric pulse
trains. How the auditory cortex represents temporally modulated CI stimulation
across multiple time scales has remained largely unclear. In this study, we
compared directly neuronal responses in primary auditory cortex (A1) to
time-varying acoustic and CI signals in awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). We found that A1 neurons encode both modalities using similar coding
schemes, but some important differences were identified. Our results provide
insights into mechanisms underlying how the brain processes sounds via a CI
device and suggest a candidate neural code underlying rate-pitch perception
limitations often observed in CI users.

Copyright © 2017 the authors 0270-6474/17/377008-15$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0093-17.2017 
PMCID: PMC5518426
PMID: 28634306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Am J Primatol. 2017 Sep;79(9). doi: 10.1002/ajp.22682. Epub 2017 Jun 20.

The effect of infant vocalization in alloparental responsiveness of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Barbosa MN(1), Mota MTDS(1), Barbosa MN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, UFRN, Caixa Postal 1511,
Campus Universitário, Natal-RN, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de química, UFRN, Natal-RN, Brazil.

Among mammals, alloparental care can be influenced by hormones as well as by
previous experience and sensory stimuli from the infants, such as sight and
sound, smell, and physical contact with the infant. To determine the
responsiveness of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) nonreproductive females
and males with and without previous experience in caretaking to infant sensory
cues, we exposed 12 females and 12 males to vocalization recordings for 10 min
under two conditions: (1) exposure to adult conspecific vocalization recordings, 
and (2) exposure to infant vocalization recordings. We recorded the frequency of 
approach toward the sound source, the time spent near it and locomotion frequency
of males and females in the cage under both conditions. Blood samples were
collected after each test for cortisol measuring by EIA method. The infant
vocalization affects the behavioral and hormonal responses of males and females
of common marmosets. The animals approached and spent more time near the sound
source and showed an increase in locomotion during infant vocalization exposure
compared to the adult vocalization. However, there was no significant difference 
in the behavioral response of animals when previous experience and the sex were
taken into account. In both sexes, cortisol levels were significantly higher
following infant vocalization exposure compared to the adult vocalization. These 
findings suggest that the infant vocalization appears to be an effective cue that
facilitates the approach of the caregiver and maintaining their responsiveness
and that the cortisol seems to be important for alertness to sensory stimuli,
modulating their motivation to interact with the infant.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22682 
PMID: 28631840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

