

856. Am J Primatol. 2017 Sep;79(9). doi: 10.1002/ajp.22682. Epub 2017 Jun 20.

The effect of infant vocalization in alloparental responsiveness of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Barbosa MN(1), Mota MTDS(1), Barbosa MN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Centro de Biociências, UFRN, Caixa Postal 1511,
Campus Universitário, Natal-RN, Brazil.
(2)Instituto de química, UFRN, Natal-RN, Brazil.

Among mammals, alloparental care can be influenced by hormones as well as by
previous experience and sensory stimuli from the infants, such as sight and
sound, smell, and physical contact with the infant. To determine the
responsiveness of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) nonreproductive females
and males with and without previous experience in caretaking to infant sensory
cues, we exposed 12 females and 12 males to vocalization recordings for 10 min
under two conditions: (1) exposure to adult conspecific vocalization recordings, 
and (2) exposure to infant vocalization recordings. We recorded the frequency of 
approach toward the sound source, the time spent near it and locomotion frequency
of males and females in the cage under both conditions. Blood samples were
collected after each test for cortisol measuring by EIA method. The infant
vocalization affects the behavioral and hormonal responses of males and females
of common marmosets. The animals approached and spent more time near the sound
source and showed an increase in locomotion during infant vocalization exposure
compared to the adult vocalization. However, there was no significant difference 
in the behavioral response of animals when previous experience and the sex were
taken into account. In both sexes, cortisol levels were significantly higher
following infant vocalization exposure compared to the adult vocalization. These 
findings suggest that the infant vocalization appears to be an effective cue that
facilitates the approach of the caregiver and maintaining their responsiveness
and that the cortisol seems to be important for alertness to sensory stimuli,
modulating their motivation to interact with the infant.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22682 
PMID: 28631840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. J Neurosci. 2017 Jul 19;37(29):7036-7047. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0702-17.2017.
Epub 2017 Jun 19.

Social Context-Dependent Activity in Marmoset Frontal Cortex Populations during
Natural Conversations.

Nummela SU(1), Jovanovic V(2)(3), de la Mothe L(4), Miller CT(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory and snummela@gmail.com.
(2)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory and.
(3)Neurosciences Graduate Program, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, and.
(4)Department of Psychology, Tennessee State University, Nashville, Tennessee
37219-1561.

Communication is an inherently interactive process that weaves together the
fabric of both human and nonhuman primate societies. To investigate the
properties of the primate brain during active social signaling, we recorded the
responses of frontal cortex neurons as freely moving marmosets engaged in
conversational exchanges with a visually occluded virtual marmoset. We found that
small changes in firing rate (∼1 Hz) occurred across a broadly distributed
population of frontal cortex neurons when marmosets heard a conspecific
vocalization, and that these changes corresponded to subjects' likelihood of
producing or withholding a vocal reply. Although the contributions of individual 
neurons were relatively small, large populations of neurons were able to clearly 
distinguish between these social contexts. Most significantly, this social
context-dependent change in firing rate was evident even before subjects heard
the vocalization, indicating that the probability of a conversational exchange
was determined by the state of the frontal cortex at the time a vocalization was 
heard, and not by a decision driven by acoustic characteristics of the
vocalization. We found that changes in neural activity scaled with the length of 
the conversation, with greater changes in firing rate evident for longer
conversations. These data reveal specific and important facets of this neural
activity that constrain its possible roles in active social signaling, and we
hypothesize that the close coupling between frontal cortex activity and this
natural, active primate social-signaling behavior facilitates social-monitoring
mechanisms critical to conversational exchanges.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT We provide
evidence for a novel pattern of neural activity in the frontal cortex of freely
moving, naturally behaving, marmoset monkeys that may facilitate natural primate 
conversations. We discovered small (∼1 Hz), but reliable, changes in neural
activity that occurred before marmosets even heard a conspecific vocalization
that, as a population, almost perfectly predicted whether subjects would produce 
a vocalization in response. The change in the state of the frontal cortex
persisted throughout the conversation and its magnitude scaled linearly with the 
length of the interaction. We hypothesize that this social context-dependent
change in frontal cortex activity is supported by several mechanisms, such as
social arousal and attention, and facilitates social monitoring critical for
vocal coordination characteristic of human and nonhuman primate conversations.

Copyright © 2017 the authors 0270-6474/17/377036-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0702-17.2017 
PMCID: PMC5518427
PMID: 28630255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

