

857. J Neurosci. 2017 Jul 19;37(29):7036-7047. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0702-17.2017.
Epub 2017 Jun 19.

Social Context-Dependent Activity in Marmoset Frontal Cortex Populations during
Natural Conversations.

Nummela SU(1), Jovanovic V(2)(3), de la Mothe L(4), Miller CT(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory and snummela@gmail.com.
(2)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory and.
(3)Neurosciences Graduate Program, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
California 92093, and.
(4)Department of Psychology, Tennessee State University, Nashville, Tennessee
37219-1561.

Communication is an inherently interactive process that weaves together the
fabric of both human and nonhuman primate societies. To investigate the
properties of the primate brain during active social signaling, we recorded the
responses of frontal cortex neurons as freely moving marmosets engaged in
conversational exchanges with a visually occluded virtual marmoset. We found that
small changes in firing rate (∼1 Hz) occurred across a broadly distributed
population of frontal cortex neurons when marmosets heard a conspecific
vocalization, and that these changes corresponded to subjects' likelihood of
producing or withholding a vocal reply. Although the contributions of individual 
neurons were relatively small, large populations of neurons were able to clearly 
distinguish between these social contexts. Most significantly, this social
context-dependent change in firing rate was evident even before subjects heard
the vocalization, indicating that the probability of a conversational exchange
was determined by the state of the frontal cortex at the time a vocalization was 
heard, and not by a decision driven by acoustic characteristics of the
vocalization. We found that changes in neural activity scaled with the length of 
the conversation, with greater changes in firing rate evident for longer
conversations. These data reveal specific and important facets of this neural
activity that constrain its possible roles in active social signaling, and we
hypothesize that the close coupling between frontal cortex activity and this
natural, active primate social-signaling behavior facilitates social-monitoring
mechanisms critical to conversational exchanges.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT We provide
evidence for a novel pattern of neural activity in the frontal cortex of freely
moving, naturally behaving, marmoset monkeys that may facilitate natural primate 
conversations. We discovered small (∼1 Hz), but reliable, changes in neural
activity that occurred before marmosets even heard a conspecific vocalization
that, as a population, almost perfectly predicted whether subjects would produce 
a vocalization in response. The change in the state of the frontal cortex
persisted throughout the conversation and its magnitude scaled linearly with the 
length of the interaction. We hypothesize that this social context-dependent
change in frontal cortex activity is supported by several mechanisms, such as
social arousal and attention, and facilitates social monitoring critical for
vocal coordination characteristic of human and nonhuman primate conversations.

Copyright © 2017 the authors 0270-6474/17/377036-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0702-17.2017 
PMCID: PMC5518427
PMID: 28630255  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Neurobiol Aging. 2017 Sep;57:95-103. doi: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2017.05.013.
Epub 2017 May 22.

Age-related plasticity of the axon initial segment of cortical pyramidal cells in
marmoset monkeys.

Atapour N(1), Rosa MGP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of Physiology, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Australian Research Council, Centre
of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia. Electronic address: nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.
(2)Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of Physiology, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Australian Research Council, Centre
of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.

Structural plasticity of the axon initial segment (AIS), the site of action
potential initiation, is observed as part of the normal early development of the 
cortex, as well as in association with injury and disease. Here, we show that
structural AIS plasticity also occurs with normal aging in adult marmosets.
Immunohistochemical techniques were used to reveal the extent of the AIS of layer
2/3A pyramidal cells in 8 neocortical areas. We found that the AIS length varied 
significantly between areas in young adult (2-3 years old) marmosets, with
neurons in frontal area 14C having the longest AIS, and those in the primary
visual cortex the shortest. Similar interareal differences were observed in aged 
(12-14 year old) monkeys, but the AIS was significantly shortened in many areas, 
relative to the corresponding length in young adults. Shortening of the AIS is
likely to represent a compensatory response to changes in the
excitation-inhibition balance, associated with the loss of GABAergic interneurons
in the aged cortex.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2017.05.013 
PMID: 28624616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

