

860. Neurosci Res. 2017 Nov;124:57-62. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2017.06.002. Epub 2017
Jun 9.

Visual discrimination and reversal learning in aged common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Munger EL(1), Takemoto A(2), Raghanti MA(1), Nakamura K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology and School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent State
University, Kent, OH 44242, USA.
(2)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(3)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
nakamura.katsuki.4z@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have been suggested as a new model for
analysis of age-related changes and neurodegenerative diseases. However, the
effects of age on learning and memory processes are not well defined within this 
species. Therefore, we employed visual discrimination and reversal learning tasks
to evaluate learning and memory in four aged common marmosets relative to a
younger cohort. We found that aged marmosets commit significantly more errors in 
initial stages of visual discrimination and more perseverative errors in reversal
learning, indicating prefrontal dysfunction. However, they showed comparable
performance with younger marmosets in the later stages of both tasks.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and Japan Neuroscience Society. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2017.06.002 
PMID: 28602996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Sci Rep. 2017 Jun 6;7(1):2873. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-03105-0.

Targeted Patching and Dendritic Ca2+ Imaging in Nonhuman Primate Brain in vivo.

Ding R(1)(2), Liao X(2), Li J(2), Zhang J(2), Wang M(2), Guang Y(2), Qin H(2), Li
X(2), Zhang K(2), Liang S(2), Guan J(2), Lou J(2), Jia H(3), Chen B(4), Shen
H(5), Chen X(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Engineering, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China.
(2)Brain Research Center, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Brain Research Instrument Innovation Center, Suzhou Institute of Biomedical
Engineering and Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou, China.
(4)Laboratory Animal Center, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
chenbb81@126.com.
(5)School of Biomedical Engineering, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, China. 
shenhui@tmu.edu.cn.
(6)Brain Research Center, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
xiaowei_chen@tmmu.edu.cn.
(7)CAS Center for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology,
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Shanghai, China. xiaowei_chen@tmmu.edu.cn.

Nonhuman primates provide an important model not only for understanding human
brain but also for translational research in neurological and psychiatric
disorders. However, many high-resolution techniques for recording neural activity
in vivo that were initially established for rodents have not been yet applied to 
the nonhuman primate brain. Here, we introduce a combination of two-photon
targeted patching and dendritic Ca2+ imaging to the neocortex of adult common
marmoset, an invaluable primate model for neuroscience research. Using targeted
patching, we show both spontaneous and sensory-evoked intracellular dynamics of
visually identified neurons in the marmoset cortex. Using two-photon Ca2+ imaging
and intracellular pharmacological manipulation, we report both
action-potential-associated global and synaptically-evoked NMDA
(N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor-mediated local Ca2+ signals in dendrites and
spines of the superficial-layer cortical neurons. Therefore, we demonstrate the
presence of synaptic Ca2+ signals in neuronal dendrites in living nonhuman
primates. This work represents a proof-of-principle for exploring the primate
brain functions in vivo by monitoring neural activity and morphology at a
subcellular resolution.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-03105-0 
PMCID: PMC5460116
PMID: 28588297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

