

862. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2017 Sep;83:42-48. doi: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2017.05.009.
Epub 2017 May 10.

An eye tracking system for monitoring face scanning patterns reveals the
enhancing effect of oxytocin on eye contact in common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Shimono K(2), Yoneyama T(3), Nakako T(1), Matsumoto K(1), Ogi Y(1), 
Konoike N(4), Nakamura K(4), Ikeda K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Higher Brain Function Research, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 33-94
Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan.
(2)Molecular Pathophysiology Research, Drug Research Division, Sumitomo Dainippon
Pharma, Co., Ltd., 3-1-98 Kasugadenaka, Konohana-ku, Osaka, 554-0022, Japan.
(3)Omics Group, Genomic Science Laboratories, Drug Research Division, Sumitomo
Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 3-1-98 Kasugadenaka, Konohana-ku, Osaka, 554-0022,
Japan.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 41-2
Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi, 484-8506, Japan.
(5)Higher Brain Function Research, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 33-94
Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan. Electronic address:
kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Eye tracking systems are used to investigate eyes position and gaze patterns
presumed as eye contact in humans. Eye contact is a useful biomarker of social
communication and known to be deficient in patients with autism spectrum
disorders (ASDs). Interestingly, the same eye tracking systems have been used to 
directly compare face scanning patterns in some non-human primates to those in
human. Thus, eye tracking is expected to be a useful translational technique for 
investigating not only social attention and visual interest, but also the effects
of psychiatric drugs, such as oxytocin, a neuropeptide that regulates social
behavior. In this study, we report on a newly established method for eye tracking
in common marmosets as unique New World primates that, like humans, use eye
contact as a mean of communication. Our investigation was aimed at characterizing
these primates face scanning patterns and evaluating the effects of oxytocin on
their eye contact behavior. We found that normal common marmosets spend more time
viewing the eyes region in common marmoset's picture than the mouth region or a
scrambled picture. In oxytocin experiment, the change in eyes/face ratio was
significantly greater in the oxytocin group than in the vehicle group. Moreover, 
oxytocin-induced increase in the change in eyes/face ratio was completely blocked
by the oxytocin receptor antagonist L-368,899. These results indicate that eye
tracking in common marmosets may be useful for evaluating drug candidates
targeting psychiatric conditions, especially ASDs.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2017.05.009 
PMID: 28586711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Vet Pathol. 2018 Jan;55(1):27-41. doi: 10.1177/0300985817712794. Epub 2017 Jun 6.

Experimental Models of Autoimmune Demyelinating Diseases in Nonhuman Primates.

Stimmer L(1), Fovet CM(2), Serguera C(3).

Author information: 
(1)1 U1169/US27 Platform for experimental pathology, Molecular Imaging Research
Center, INSERM-CEA, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France.
(2)2 U1169/US27 Platform for general surgery, Molecular Imaging Research Center, 
INSERM-CEA, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France.
(3)3 US27, Molecular Imaging Research Center, INSERM-CEA, Fontenay-aux-Roses,
France.

Human idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating diseases (IIDD) are a heterogeneous
group of autoimmune inflammatory and demyelinating disorders of the central
nervous system (CNS). These include multiple sclerosis (MS), the most common
chronic IIDD, but also rarer disorders such as acute disseminated
encephalomyelitis (ADEM) and neuromyelitis optica (NMO). Great efforts have been 
made to understand the pathophysiology of MS, leading to the development of a few
effective treatments. Nonetheless, IIDD still require a better understanding of
the causes and underlying mechanisms to implement more effective therapies and
diagnostic methods. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a commonly
used animal model to study the pathophysiology of IIDD. EAE is principally
induced through immunization with myelin antigens combined with immune-activating
adjuvants. Nonhuman primates (NHP), the phylogenetically closest relatives of
humans, challenged by similar microorganisms as other primates may recapitulate
comparable immune responses to that of humans. In this review, the authors
describe EAE models in 3 NHP species: rhesus macaques ( Macaca mulatta),
cynomolgus macaques ( Macaca fascicularis), and common marmosets ( Callithrix
jacchus), evaluating their respective contribution to the understanding of human 
IIDD. EAE in NHP is a heterogeneous disease, including acute monophasic and
chronic polyphasic forms. This diversity makes it a versatile model to use in
translational research. This clinical variability also creates an opportunity to 
explore multiple facets of immune-mediated mechanisms of neuro-inflammation and
demyelination as well as intrinsic protective mechanisms. Here, the authors
review current insights into the pathogenesis and immunopathological mechanisms
implicated in the development of EAE in NHP.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985817712794 
PMID: 28583039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

