

867. Curr Biol. 2017 Jun 19;27(12):1844-1852.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.05.004. Epub 
2017 May 25.

Vocal Learning via Social Reinforcement by Infant Marmoset Monkeys.

Takahashi DY(1), Liao DA(2), Ghazanfar AA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
Electronic address: takahashiyd@gmail.com.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA.
(3)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA;
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
NJ 08544, USA. Electronic address: asifg@princeton.edu.

For over half a century now, primate vocalizations have been thought to undergo
little or no experience-dependent acoustic changes during development [1]. If any
changes are apparent, then they are routinely (and quite reasonably) attributed
to the passive consequences of growth. Indeed, previous experiments on squirrel
monkeys and macaque monkeys showed that social isolation [2, 3], deafness [2],
cross-fostering [4] and parental absence [5] have little or no effect on vocal
development. Here, we explicitly test in marmoset monkeys-a very vocal and
cooperatively breeding species [6]-whether the transformation of immature into
mature contact calls by infants is influenced by contingent parental vocal
feedback. Using a closed-loop design, we experimentally provided more versus less
contingent vocal feedback to twin infant marmoset monkeys over their first
2 months of life, the interval during which their contact calls transform from
noisy, immature calls to tonal adult-like "phee" calls [7, 8]. Infants who
received more contingent feedback had a faster rate of vocal development,
producing mature-sounding contact calls earlier than the other twin. The
differential rate of vocal development was not linked to genetics, perinatal
experience, or body growth; nor did the amount of contingency influence the
overall rate of spontaneous vocal production. Thus, we provide the first
experimental evidence for production-related vocal learning during the
development of a nonhuman primate.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.05.004 
PMID: 28552359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Sci Rep. 2017 May 24;7(1):2394. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-02417-5.

Hunger enhances consistent economic choices in non-human primates.

Yamada H(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira,
Tokyo, Japan. h-yamada@md.tsukuba.ac.jp.
(2)Division of Biomedical Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan. h-yamada@md.tsukuba.ac.jp.
(3)Graduate School of Comprehensive Human Sciences, University of Tsukuba,
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan. h-yamada@md.tsukuba.ac.jp.

Hunger and thirst are fundamental biological processes that drive consumption
behavior in humans and non-human animals. While the existing literature in
neuroscience suggests that these satiety states change how consumable rewards are
represented in the brain, it remains unclear as to how they change animal choice 
behavior and the underlying economic preferences. Here, I used combined
techniques from experimental economics, psychology, and neuroscience to measure
food preferences of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), a recently developed
primate model for neuroscience. Hunger states of animals were manipulated by
scheduling feeding intervals, resulting in three different conditions: sated,
non-sated, and hungry. During these hunger states, animals performed pairwise
choices of food items, which included all possible pairwise combinations of five 
different food items except for same-food pairs. Results showed that hunger
enhanced economic rationality, evident as a decrease of transitivity violations
(item A was preferred to item B, and B to C, but C was preferred to A). Further
analysis demonstrated that hungry monkeys chose more-preferred items over
less-preferred items in a more deterministic manner, while the individual food
preferences appeared to remain stable across hunger states. These results suggest
that hunger enhances consistent choice behavior and shifts animals towards
efficient outcome maximization.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-02417-5 
PMCID: PMC5443835
PMID: 28539584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

