

869. Nat Commun. 2017 May 23;8:15413. doi: 10.1038/ncomms15413.

Engaging and disengaging recurrent inhibition coincides with sensing and
unsensing of a sensory stimulus.

Saha D(1), Sun W(1), Li C(1), Nizampatnam S(1), Padovano W(1), Chen Z(1), Chen
A(1), Altan E(1), Lo R(1), Barbour DL(1), Raman B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, Missouri 63130, USA.

Even simple sensory stimuli evoke neural responses that are dynamic and complex. 
Are the temporally patterned neural activities important for controlling the
behavioral output? Here, we investigated this issue. Our results reveal that in
the insect antennal lobe, due to circuit interactions, distinct neural ensembles 
are activated during and immediately following the termination of every odorant. 
Such non-overlapping response patterns are not observed even when the stimulus
intensity or identities were changed. In addition, we find that ON and OFF
ensemble neural activities differ in their ability to recruit recurrent
inhibition, entrain field-potential oscillations and more importantly in their
relevance to behaviour (initiate versus reset conditioned responses). Notably, we
find that a strikingly similar strategy is also used for encoding sound onsets
and offsets in the marmoset auditory cortex. In sum, our results suggest a
general approach where recurrent inhibition is associated with stimulus
'recognition' and 'derecognition'.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms15413 
PMCID: PMC5457525
PMID: 28534502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. PLoS One. 2017 May 17;12(5):e0175797. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175797.
eCollection 2017.

Altered detrusor contractility in MPTP-treated common marmosets with bladder
hyperreflexia.

Pritchard S(1), Jackson MJ(2), Hikima A(2), Lione L(1), Benham CD(1), Chaudhuri
KR(3), Rose S(2), Jenner P(2), Iravani MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Pharmacology and Postgraduate Medicine, University of 
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, United Kingdom.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London,
United Kingdom.
(3)King's Health Partnership, London, United Kingdom.

Bladder hyperreflexia is a common non-motor feature of Parkinson's disease. We
now report on the contractility of the isolated primate detrusor strips devoid of
nerve input and show that following MPTP, the amplitude and frequency of
spontaneous contraction was increased. These responses were unaffected by
dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonists A77636 and ropinirole respectively.
Contractions by exogenous carbachol, histamine or ATP were similar and no
differences in the magnitude of noradrenaline-induced relaxation were seen in
detrusor strip obtained from normal and MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). However, the neurogenic contractions following electrical field
stimulation of the intrinsic nerves (EFS) were markedly greater in strips
obtained from MPTP treated animals. EFS evoked non-cholinergic contractions
following atropine were also greater but the contribution of the cholinergic
innervation as a proportion of the overall contraction was smaller in the
detrusor strips of MPTP treated animals, suggesting a preferential enhancement of
the non-cholinergic transmission. Although dopaminergic mechanism has been
proposed to underlie bladder hyperreflexia in MPTP-treated animals with intact
bladder, the present data indicates that the increased neurogenically mediated
contractions where no extrinsic innervation exists might be due to long-term
adaptive changes locally as a result of the loss of the nigrostriatal output.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175797 
PMCID: PMC5435136
PMID: 28520722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

