

87. Emerg Microbes Infect. 2021 Dec;10(1):1790-1806. doi:
10.1080/22221751.2021.1971569.

Long-term humoral immunogenicity, safety and protective efficacy of inactivated
vaccine against COVID-19 (CoviVac) in preclinical studies.

Kozlovskaya LI(1)(2), Piniaeva AN(1), Ignatyev GM(1), Gordeychuk IV(1)(2), Volok 
VP(1)(3), Rogova YV(1), Shishova AA(1)(2), Kovpak AA(1), Ivin YY(1), Antonova
LP(1), Mefyod KM(1), Prokosheva LS(1), Sibirkina AS(1), Tarasova YY(1), Bayurova 
EO(1), Gancharova OS(1), Illarionova VV(1), Glukhov GS(3), Sokolova OS(3),
Shaitan KV(3), Moysenovich AM(3), Gulyaev SA(1), Gulyaeva TV(1), Moroz AV(1),
Gmyl LV(1), Ipatova EG(1), Kirpichnikov MP(3), Egorov AM(1)(3), Siniugina AA(1), 
Ishmukhametov AA(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Institute for Translational Medicine and Biotechnology, Sechenov First Moscow 
State Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Department of Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.

The unprecedented in recent history global COVID-19 pandemic urged the
implementation of all existing vaccine platforms to ensure the availability of
the vaccines against COVID-19 to every country in the world. Despite the
multitude of high-quality papers describing clinical trials of different vaccine 
products, basic detailed data on general toxicity, reproductive toxicity,
immunogenicity, protective efficacy and durability of immune response in animal
models are scarce. Here, we developed a β-propiolactone-inactivated whole virion 
vaccine CoviVac and assessed its safety, protective efficacy, immunogenicity and 
stability of the immune response in rodents and non-human primates. The vaccine
showed no signs of acute/chronic, reproductive, embryo- and fetotoxicity, or
teratogenic effects, as well as no allergenic properties in studied animal
species. The vaccine induced stable and robust humoral immune response both in
form of specific anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG and NAbs in mice, Syrian hamsters, and
common marmosets. The NAb levels did not decrease significantly over the course
of one year. The course of two immunizations protected Syrian hamsters from
severe pneumonia upon intranasal challenge with the live virus. Robustness of the
vaccine manufacturing process was demonstrated as well. These data encouraged
further evaluation of CoviVac in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1080/22221751.2021.1971569 
PMCID: PMC8439218
PMID: 34427172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Neurosci. 2021 Sep 29;41(39):8197-8209. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0824-21.2021.
Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Visual Cortical Area MT Is Required for Development of the Dorsal Stream and
Associated Visuomotor Behaviors.

Kwan WC(1), Chang CK(1), Yu HH(2), Mundinano IC(1), Fox DM(1), Homman-Ludiye
J(1), Bourne JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria 3800, Australia.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia.
(3)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria 3800, Australia James.Bourne@monash.edu.

The middle temporal (MT) area of the extrastriate visual cortex has long been
studied in adulthood for its distinctive physiological properties and function as
a part of the dorsal stream, yet interestingly it possesses a similar maturation 
profile as the primary visual cortex (V1). Here, we examined whether an
early-life lesion in MT of marmoset monkeys (six female, two male) altered the
dorsal stream development and the behavioral precision of reaching-to-grasp
sequences. We observed permanent changes in the anatomy of cortices associated
with both reaching (parietal and medial intraparietal areas) and grasping
(anterior intraparietal area), as well as in reaching-and-grasping behaviors. In 
addition, we observed a significant impact on the anatomy of V1 and the direction
sensitivity of V1 neurons in the lesion projection zone. These findings indicate 
that area MT is a crucial node in the development of primate vision, affecting
both V1 and areas in the dorsal visual pathway known to mediate visually guided
manual behaviors.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Previous studies have identified a role
for the MT area of the visual cortex in perceiving motion, yet none have examined
its central role in the development of the visual cortex and in the establishment
of visuomotor behaviors. To address this, we used a unilateral MT lesion model in
neonatal marmosets before examining the anatomic, physiological, and behavioral
consequences. In adulthood, we observed perturbations in goal-orientated
reach-and-grasp behavior, altered direction selectivity of V1 neurons, and
changes in the cytoarchitecture throughout dorsal stream areas. This study
highlights the importance of MT as a central node in visual system development
and consequential visuomotor activity.

Copyright © 2021 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0824-21.2021 
PMCID: PMC8482858 [Available on 2022-03-29]
PMID: 34417331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

