

870. PLoS One. 2017 May 17;12(5):e0175797. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175797.
eCollection 2017.

Altered detrusor contractility in MPTP-treated common marmosets with bladder
hyperreflexia.

Pritchard S(1), Jackson MJ(2), Hikima A(2), Lione L(1), Benham CD(1), Chaudhuri
KR(3), Rose S(2), Jenner P(2), Iravani MM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Pharmacology and Postgraduate Medicine, University of 
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, United Kingdom.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London,
United Kingdom.
(3)King's Health Partnership, London, United Kingdom.

Bladder hyperreflexia is a common non-motor feature of Parkinson's disease. We
now report on the contractility of the isolated primate detrusor strips devoid of
nerve input and show that following MPTP, the amplitude and frequency of
spontaneous contraction was increased. These responses were unaffected by
dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonists A77636 and ropinirole respectively.
Contractions by exogenous carbachol, histamine or ATP were similar and no
differences in the magnitude of noradrenaline-induced relaxation were seen in
detrusor strip obtained from normal and MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). However, the neurogenic contractions following electrical field
stimulation of the intrinsic nerves (EFS) were markedly greater in strips
obtained from MPTP treated animals. EFS evoked non-cholinergic contractions
following atropine were also greater but the contribution of the cholinergic
innervation as a proportion of the overall contraction was smaller in the
detrusor strips of MPTP treated animals, suggesting a preferential enhancement of
the non-cholinergic transmission. Although dopaminergic mechanism has been
proposed to underlie bladder hyperreflexia in MPTP-treated animals with intact
bladder, the present data indicates that the increased neurogenically mediated
contractions where no extrinsic innervation exists might be due to long-term
adaptive changes locally as a result of the loss of the nigrostriatal output.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0175797 
PMCID: PMC5435136
PMID: 28520722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Brain Struct Funct. 2017 Aug;222(6):2449-2472. doi: 10.1007/s00429-017-1436-9.
Epub 2017 May 15.

Lobular homology in cerebellar hemispheres of humans, non-human primates and
rodents: a structural, axonal tracing and molecular expression analysis.

Luo Y(1), Fujita H(1)(2), Nedelescu H(1), Biswas MS(1), Sato C(3), Ying S(1)(4), 
Takahashi M(1), Akita K(5), Higashi T(3), Aoki I(3), Sugihara I(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Neurophysiology, Tokyo Medical and Dental University
Graduate School, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8519, Japan.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, 720 Rutland Ave., Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Imaging and Theranostics, National Institute of
Radiological Sciences (NIRS), QST, 4-9-1 Anagawa, Inage-ku, Chiba, 263-8555,
Japan.
(4)Departments of Radiology, Neurology, and Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, 600 N. Wolfe St., Baltimore, MD, 21287, USA.
(5)Department of Clinical Anatomy, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45
Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8519, Japan.
(6)Department of Systems Neurophysiology, Tokyo Medical and Dental University
Graduate School, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8519, Japan.
isugihara.phy1@tmd.ac.jp.
(7)Center for Brain Integration Research, Tokyo Medical and Dental University,
1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8519, Japan. isugihara.phy1@tmd.ac.jp.

Comparative neuroanatomy provides insights into the evolutionary functional
adaptation of specific mammalian cerebellar lobules, in which the lobulation
pattern and functional localization are conserved. However, accurate
identification of homologous lobules among mammalian species is challenging. In
this review, we discuss the inter-species homology of crus I and II lobules which
occupy a large volume in the posterior cerebellar hemisphere, particularly in
humans. Both crus I/II in humans are homologous to crus I/II in non-human
primates, according to Paxinos and colleagues; however, this area has been
defined as crus I alone in non-human primates, according to Larsell and Brodal.
Our neuroanatomical analyses in humans, macaques, marmosets, rats, and mice
demonstrate that both crus I/II in humans are homologous to crus I/II or crus I
alone in non-human primates, depending on previous definitions, and to crus I
alone in rodents. Here, we refer to the region homologous to human crus I/II
lobules as "ansiform area (AA)" across animals. Our results show that the AA's
olivocerebellar climbing fiber and Purkinje cell projections as well as aldolase 
C gene expression patterns are both distinct and conserved in marmosets and
rodents. The relative size of the AA, as represented by the AA volume fraction in
the whole cerebellum was 0.34 in human, 0.19 in macaque, and approximately 0.1 in
marmoset and rodents. These results indicate that the AA reflects an
evolutionarily conserved structure in the mammalian cerebellum, which is
characterized by distinct connectivity from neighboring lobules and a massive
expansion in skillful primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-017-1436-9 
PMID: 28508291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

