

871. Brain Struct Funct. 2017 Aug;222(6):2449-2472. doi: 10.1007/s00429-017-1436-9.
Epub 2017 May 15.

Lobular homology in cerebellar hemispheres of humans, non-human primates and
rodents: a structural, axonal tracing and molecular expression analysis.

Luo Y(1), Fujita H(1)(2), Nedelescu H(1), Biswas MS(1), Sato C(3), Ying S(1)(4), 
Takahashi M(1), Akita K(5), Higashi T(3), Aoki I(3), Sugihara I(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Neurophysiology, Tokyo Medical and Dental University
Graduate School, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8519, Japan.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, 720 Rutland Ave., Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Imaging and Theranostics, National Institute of
Radiological Sciences (NIRS), QST, 4-9-1 Anagawa, Inage-ku, Chiba, 263-8555,
Japan.
(4)Departments of Radiology, Neurology, and Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, 600 N. Wolfe St., Baltimore, MD, 21287, USA.
(5)Department of Clinical Anatomy, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45
Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8519, Japan.
(6)Department of Systems Neurophysiology, Tokyo Medical and Dental University
Graduate School, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8519, Japan.
isugihara.phy1@tmd.ac.jp.
(7)Center for Brain Integration Research, Tokyo Medical and Dental University,
1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, 113-8519, Japan. isugihara.phy1@tmd.ac.jp.

Comparative neuroanatomy provides insights into the evolutionary functional
adaptation of specific mammalian cerebellar lobules, in which the lobulation
pattern and functional localization are conserved. However, accurate
identification of homologous lobules among mammalian species is challenging. In
this review, we discuss the inter-species homology of crus I and II lobules which
occupy a large volume in the posterior cerebellar hemisphere, particularly in
humans. Both crus I/II in humans are homologous to crus I/II in non-human
primates, according to Paxinos and colleagues; however, this area has been
defined as crus I alone in non-human primates, according to Larsell and Brodal.
Our neuroanatomical analyses in humans, macaques, marmosets, rats, and mice
demonstrate that both crus I/II in humans are homologous to crus I/II or crus I
alone in non-human primates, depending on previous definitions, and to crus I
alone in rodents. Here, we refer to the region homologous to human crus I/II
lobules as "ansiform area (AA)" across animals. Our results show that the AA's
olivocerebellar climbing fiber and Purkinje cell projections as well as aldolase 
C gene expression patterns are both distinct and conserved in marmosets and
rodents. The relative size of the AA, as represented by the AA volume fraction in
the whole cerebellum was 0.34 in human, 0.19 in macaque, and approximately 0.1 in
marmoset and rodents. These results indicate that the AA reflects an
evolutionarily conserved structure in the mammalian cerebellum, which is
characterized by distinct connectivity from neighboring lobules and a massive
expansion in skillful primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-017-1436-9 
PMID: 28508291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2017 Jun 1;76(6):467-478. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nlx034.

Oxidative Injury and Iron Redistribution Are Pathological Hallmarks of Marmoset
Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis.

Dunham J(1), Bauer J(1), Campbell GR(1), Mahad DJ(1), van Driel N(1), van der Pol
SMA(1), 't Hart BA(1), Lassmann H(1), Laman JD(1), van Horssen J(1), Kap YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands (JD, NvD, BAH, YSK); Department of Neuroscience,
University Medical Center, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands
(JD, BAH, JDL); Medical University of Vienna, Center for Brain Research, Vienna, 
Austria (JB, HL); Centre for Neuroregeneration, University of Edinburgh,
Edinburgh, United Kingdom (GRC, DJM); and Department of Molecular Cell Biology
and Immunology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands (SMAvdP,
JvH).

Oxidative damage and iron redistribution are associated with the pathogenesis and
progression of multiple sclerosis (MS), but these aspects are not entirely
replicated in rodent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) models.
Here, we report that oxidative burst and injury as well as redistribution of iron
are hallmarks of the MS-like pathology in the EAE model in the common marmoset.
Active lesions in the marmoset EAE brain display increased expression of
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (p22phox, p47phox,
and gp91phox) and inducible nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity within lesions
with active inflammation and demyelination, coinciding with enhanced expression
of mitochondrial heat-shock protein 70 and superoxide dismutase 1 and 2. The EAE 
lesion-associated liberation of iron (due to loss of iron-containing myelin) was 
associated with altered expression of the iron metabolic markers FtH1,
lactoferrin, hephaestin, and ceruloplasmin. The enhanced expression of oxidative 
damage markers in inflammatory lesions indicates that the enhanced antioxidant
enzyme expression could not counteract reactive oxygen and nitrogen
species-induced cellular damage, as is also observed in MS brains. This study
demonstrates that oxidative injury and aberrant iron distribution are prominent
pathological hallmarks of marmoset EAE thus making this model suitable for
therapeutic intervention studies aimed at reducing oxidative stress and
associated iron dysmetabolism.

© 2017 American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlx034 
PMID: 28505283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

