

872. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2017 Jun 1;76(6):467-478. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nlx034.

Oxidative Injury and Iron Redistribution Are Pathological Hallmarks of Marmoset
Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis.

Dunham J(1), Bauer J(1), Campbell GR(1), Mahad DJ(1), van Driel N(1), van der Pol
SMA(1), 't Hart BA(1), Lassmann H(1), Laman JD(1), van Horssen J(1), Kap YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands (JD, NvD, BAH, YSK); Department of Neuroscience,
University Medical Center, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands
(JD, BAH, JDL); Medical University of Vienna, Center for Brain Research, Vienna, 
Austria (JB, HL); Centre for Neuroregeneration, University of Edinburgh,
Edinburgh, United Kingdom (GRC, DJM); and Department of Molecular Cell Biology
and Immunology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands (SMAvdP,
JvH).

Oxidative damage and iron redistribution are associated with the pathogenesis and
progression of multiple sclerosis (MS), but these aspects are not entirely
replicated in rodent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) models.
Here, we report that oxidative burst and injury as well as redistribution of iron
are hallmarks of the MS-like pathology in the EAE model in the common marmoset.
Active lesions in the marmoset EAE brain display increased expression of
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (p22phox, p47phox,
and gp91phox) and inducible nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity within lesions
with active inflammation and demyelination, coinciding with enhanced expression
of mitochondrial heat-shock protein 70 and superoxide dismutase 1 and 2. The EAE 
lesion-associated liberation of iron (due to loss of iron-containing myelin) was 
associated with altered expression of the iron metabolic markers FtH1,
lactoferrin, hephaestin, and ceruloplasmin. The enhanced expression of oxidative 
damage markers in inflammatory lesions indicates that the enhanced antioxidant
enzyme expression could not counteract reactive oxygen and nitrogen
species-induced cellular damage, as is also observed in MS brains. This study
demonstrates that oxidative injury and aberrant iron distribution are prominent
pathological hallmarks of marmoset EAE thus making this model suitable for
therapeutic intervention studies aimed at reducing oxidative stress and
associated iron dysmetabolism.

© 2017 American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlx034 
PMID: 28505283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Neuroimage. 2017 Aug 1;156:78-86. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.05.013. Epub
2017 May 10.

A geometrically adjustable receive array for imaging marmoset cohorts.

Gilbert KM(1), Gati JS(2), Klassen LM(2), Zeman P(2), Schaeffer DJ(2), Everling
S(3), Menon RS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St. N, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5B7. Electronic
address: kgilbert@robarts.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St. N, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5B7.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St. N, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5B7; Department of
Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.
(4)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St. N, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5B7; Department of
Medical Biophysics, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is an increasingly popular animal model 
for translational neuroscience studies, during which anatomical and functional
MRI can be useful investigative tools. To attain the requisite SNR for
high-resolution acquisitions, the radiofrequency coil must be optimized for the
marmoset; however, relatively few custom coils have been developed that maximize 
SNR and are compatible with accelerated acquisitions. For the study of large
populations of animals, the heterogeneity in animal size reduces the
effectiveness of a "one size fits all" approach to coil sizing and makes coils
tailored to individual animals cost and time prohibitive. The approach taken in
this study was to create an 8-channel phased-array receive coil that was
adjustable to the width of the marmoset head, thereby negating the need for
tailored coils while still maintaining high SNR. Two marmosets of different size 
were imaged on a 9.4-T small-animal scanner. Consistent SNR was achieved in the
periphery of the brain between head sizes. When compared to a 15-channel, "one
size fits all" receive coil, the adjustable coil achieved 57% higher SNR in the
superior frontal and parietal cortices and 29% higher SNR in the centre of the
brain. The mean geometry factor of the adjustable coil was less than 1.2 for a
2-fold reduction factor in the left-right and anterior-posterior directions.
Geometry factors were compared to the 15-channel coil to guide future designs.
The adjustable coil was shown to be a practical means for anatomical and
echo-planar imaging of marmoset cohorts.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.05.013 
PMID: 28499849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

