

875. PLoS One. 2017 May 11;12(5):e0176597. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0176597.
eCollection 2017.

Non-human primate orthologues of TMPRSS2 cleave and activate the influenza virus 
hemagglutinin.

Zmora P(1), Molau-Blazejewska P(1), Bertram S(1), Walendy-Gnirß K(1), Nehlmeier
I(1), Hartleib A(1), Moldenhauer AS(1), Konzok S(2), Dehmel S(2), Sewald K(2),
Brinkmann C(1), Curths C(2)(3), Knauf S(3)(4), Gruber J(5), Mätz-Rensing K(3),
Dahlmann F(2)(3), Braun A(2), Pöhlmann S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Infection Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Division Preclinical Pharmacology and In Vitro Toxicology, Fraunhofer
Institute for Toxicology and Experimental Medicine; Biomedical Research in
Endstage and Obstructive Lung Disease Hannover (BREATH), Member of the German
Center for Lung Research, Nikolai-Fuchs-Strasse 1, Hannover, Germany.
(3)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Workgroup Neglected Tropical Diseases, German Primate Center,
Leibniz-Institute, Kellnerweg 4, Göttingen, Germany.
(5)Primate Genetics Laboratory, Junior Research Group "Medical RNA Biology,"
German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute, Göttingen, Germany.

The cellular serine protease TMPRSS2, a member of the type II transmembrane
serine protease (TTSP) family, cleaves and activates the hemagglutinin of
influenza A viruses (FLUAV) in cell culture and is essential for spread of
diverse FLUAV in mice. Non-human primates (NHP), in particular rhesus and
cynomolgus macaques, serve as animal models for influenza and experimental FLUAV 
infection of common marmosets has recently also been reported. However, it is
currently unknown whether the NHP orthologues of human TMPRSS2 cleave and
activate FLUAV hemagglutinin and contribute to viral spread in respiratory
tissue. Here, we cloned and functionally analyzed the macaque and marmoset
orthologues of human TMPRSS2. In addition, we analyzed the macaque orthologues of
human TMPRSS4 and HAT, which also belong to the TTSP family. We found that all
NHP orthologues of human TMPRSS2, TMPRSS4 and HAT cleave and activate HA upon
directed expression and provide evidence that endogenous TMPRSS2 is expressed in 
the respiratory epithelium of rhesus macaques. Finally, we demonstrate that a
serine protease inhibitor active against TMPRSS2 suppresses FLUAV spread in
precision-cut lung slices of human, macaque and marmoset origin. These results
indicate that FLUAV depends on serine protease activity for spread in diverse NHP
and in humans. Moreover, our findings suggest that macaques and marmosets may
serve as models to study FLUAV activation by TMPRSS2 in human patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0176597 
PMCID: PMC5426610
PMID: 28493964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Behav Res Methods. 2018 Apr;50(2):816-825. doi: 10.3758/s13428-017-0906-6.

OBAT: An open-source and low-cost operant box for auditory discriminative tasks.

Ribeiro MW(1)(2)(3), Neto JFR(1)(2), Morya E(1)(2), Brasil FL(1)(2), de Araújo
MFP(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroengineering, Edmond and Lily Safra International
Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont Institute, Rodovia RN 160, Km 3, n.
3003, Macaiba, RN, 59280-000, Brazil.
(2)Alberto Santos Dumont Association for Research Support, Macaíba, RN,
59280-000, Brazil.
(3)Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, Av. Albert Einstein, 627, Morumbi, SP,
05652-900, Brazil.
(4)Graduate Program in Neuroengineering, Edmond and Lily Safra International
Institute of Neuroscience, Santos Dumont Institute, Rodovia RN 160, Km 3, n.
3003, Macaiba, RN, 59280-000, Brazil. mariana@isd.org.br.
(5)Alberto Santos Dumont Association for Research Support, Macaíba, RN,
59280-000, Brazil. mariana@isd.org.br.

Operant-conditioning boxes are widely used in animal training, allowing
researchers to shape specific behaviors through reinforcements and/or
punishments. Commercially available devices are expensive and run with
proprietary software and hardware, hampering adaptations for the specific needs
of an experiment. Therefore, many low-cost and open-source devices have recently 
been developed, but there are still few options for studying auditory behaviors. 
To overcome this problem, we developed a device based on a computer and an
Arduino Mega 2560 board, named OBAT (Operant Box for Auditory Tasks), designed to
present two different auditory stimuli to small primates. It has three modules:
sound delivery, response bars, and reward system. We estimate that OBAT is at
least 4-10 times cheaper than commercially available operant-conditioning boxes. 
Data from a behavioral pilot test ensured that the device can be used to train a 
marmoset in an auditory discrimination task. In addition, despite its low cost,
accuracy tests showed that the OBAT operates with a high temporal precision. All 
schematics and software source code are available so that other groups can easily
replicate the experiment or adapt the device to their own needs.

DOI: 10.3758/s13428-017-0906-6 
PMID: 28488135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

