

877. Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 Aug;45(8):883-886. doi: 10.1124/dmd.117.076042. Epub 2017
May 9.

Molecular Cloning and Characterization of Marmoset Aldehyde Oxidase.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Okamoto E(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., E.O., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan
(E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., E.O., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan
(E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), New World monkeys, are a promising primate
model for preclinical drug metabolism studies because of the similarities of
cytochrome P450 (P450) enzyme function to those of humans. Despite an increasing 
number of drug candidates catalyzed by non-P450 enzymes, drug metabolizing
enzymes other than P450s have been hardly identified or characterized in
marmosets. In this study, we identified aldehyde oxidase (AOX) 1 gene by marmoset
genome analysis. AOX1 cDNA was cloned from marmoset livers by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Deduced amino acid sequences of AOX1
cDNA showed high sequence identities (92-93%) with primate AOX1s. Phylogenetic
analysis showed that marmoset AOX1 was closely clustered with primate AOX1s,
unlike nonprimate animal model AOX1s of pig, rabbit, rat, and mouse used in drug 
metabolism. The tissue expression analyses by real-time reverse-transcription
polymerase chain reaction and immunoblotting showed that marmoset AOX1 mRNA and
protein were abundantly expressed in livers, similar to cynomolgus monkeys and
humans. Marmoset AOX1 heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed the 
oxidation of carbazeran and phthalazine, typical AOX1 substrates, similar to
cynomolgus monkey and human AOX1s. Human and marmoset AOX1 effectively catalyzed 
phthalazine oxidation when assessed with Michaelis-Menten kinetics, but
cynomolgus monkey AOX1 catalyzed this reaction with cooperative kinetics with
high capacity. These results indicated that tissue distribution and enzymatic
function of AOX1 enzyme is similar between marmosets and humans, suggesting that 
marmosets are a suitable primate model for AOX-dependent drug metabolism in
preclinical studies.

Copyright Â© 2017 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.117.076042 
PMID: 28487309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Primates. 2017 Jul;58(3):461-472. doi: 10.1007/s10329-017-0608-9. Epub 2017 May
8.

Muscle architectural properties in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Ogihara N(1), Oishi M(2), Kanai R(3), Shimada H(3), Kondo T(4), Yoshino-Saito
K(4), Ushiba J(5), Okano H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Science and Technology, Keio 
University, 3-14-1, Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama, 223-8522, Japan.
ogihara@mech.keio.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Anatomy 1, School of Veterinary Medicine, Azabu University,
Sagamihara, 252-5201, Japan.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Science and Technology, Keio 
University, 3-14-1, Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama, 223-8522, Japan.
(4)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Yokohama, 223-8522, Japan.
(5)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
160-8582, Japan.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is a small New World monkey that has
recently gained attention as an important experimental animal model in the field 
of neuroscience as well in rehabilitative and regenerative medicine. This
attention reflects the closer phylogenetic relationship between humans and common
marmosets compared to that between humans and other experimental animals. When
studying the neuronal mechanism behind various types of neurological motor
disorders using the common marmoset, possible differences in muscle parameters
(e.g., the force-generating capacity of each of the muscles) between the common
marmoset and other animals must be taken into account to permit accurate
interpretation of observed motor behavior. Differences in the muscle
architectural properties are expected to affect biomechanics, and hence to affect
neuronal control of body movements. Therefore, we dissected the forelimbs and
hind limbs of two common marmosets, including systematic analysis of the muscle
mass, fascicle length, and physiological cross-sectional area (PCSA). Comparisons
of the mass fractions and PCSA fractions of the forelimb and hind limb
musculature among the common marmoset, human, Japanese macaque, and domestic cat 
demonstrated that the overall muscle architectural properties of the forelimbs
and hind limbs in the common marmoset are very similar to those of the Japanese
macaque, a typical quadrupedal primate. However, muscle architectural properties 
of the common marmoset differ from those of the domestic cat, which has
relatively larger hamstrings and pedal digital flexor muscles. Compared to
humans, the common marmoset exhibits relatively smaller shoulder protractor,
retractor, and abductor muscles and larger elbow extensor and rotator-cuff
muscles in the forelimb, and smaller plantarflexor muscles in the hind limb.
These differences in the muscle architectural properties must be taken into
account when interpreting motor behaviors such as locomotion and arm-reaching
movements in the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-017-0608-9 
PMID: 28484857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

