

88. J Neurosci. 2021 Sep 29;41(39):8197-8209. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0824-21.2021.
Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Visual Cortical Area MT Is Required for Development of the Dorsal Stream and
Associated Visuomotor Behaviors.

Kwan WC(1), Chang CK(1), Yu HH(2), Mundinano IC(1), Fox DM(1), Homman-Ludiye
J(1), Bourne JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria 3800, Australia.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia.
(3)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria 3800, Australia James.Bourne@monash.edu.

The middle temporal (MT) area of the extrastriate visual cortex has long been
studied in adulthood for its distinctive physiological properties and function as
a part of the dorsal stream, yet interestingly it possesses a similar maturation 
profile as the primary visual cortex (V1). Here, we examined whether an
early-life lesion in MT of marmoset monkeys (six female, two male) altered the
dorsal stream development and the behavioral precision of reaching-to-grasp
sequences. We observed permanent changes in the anatomy of cortices associated
with both reaching (parietal and medial intraparietal areas) and grasping
(anterior intraparietal area), as well as in reaching-and-grasping behaviors. In 
addition, we observed a significant impact on the anatomy of V1 and the direction
sensitivity of V1 neurons in the lesion projection zone. These findings indicate 
that area MT is a crucial node in the development of primate vision, affecting
both V1 and areas in the dorsal visual pathway known to mediate visually guided
manual behaviors.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Previous studies have identified a role
for the MT area of the visual cortex in perceiving motion, yet none have examined
its central role in the development of the visual cortex and in the establishment
of visuomotor behaviors. To address this, we used a unilateral MT lesion model in
neonatal marmosets before examining the anatomic, physiological, and behavioral
consequences. In adulthood, we observed perturbations in goal-orientated
reach-and-grasp behavior, altered direction selectivity of V1 neurons, and
changes in the cytoarchitecture throughout dorsal stream areas. This study
highlights the importance of MT as a central node in visual system development
and consequential visuomotor activity.

Copyright © 2021 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0824-21.2021 
PMCID: PMC8482858 [Available on 2022-03-29]
PMID: 34417331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Neuropharmacology. 2021 Oct 15;198:108755. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2021.108755.
Epub 2021 Aug 17.

Neuron-specific responses to acetylcholine within the spinal dorsal horn circuits
of rodent and primate.

Sykes MJ(1), Kekesi OS(1), Wong YT(2), Zhao FY(3), Spanswick D(4), Imlach WL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia; 
Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia; 
Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia;
Department of Electrical and Computer Systems Engineering, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, 
Australia.
(3)NeuroSolutions Ltd, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia; 
Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia;
University of Warwick, Warwick Medical School, Coventry, CV4 7AL, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia; 
Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
Electronic address: wendy.imlach@monash.edu.

Excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission within the spinal dorsal horn is
tightly controlled to regulate transmission of nociceptive signals to the brain. 
One aspect of this control is modulation of neuronal activity through cholinergic
signaling. Nociceptive neurons in the dorsal horn express both nicotinic and
muscarinic cholinergic receptors and activation of these receptors reduces pain
in humans, while inhibition leads to nociceptive hypersensitivity. At a cellular 
level, acetylcholine (ACh) has diverse effects on excitability which is dependent
on the receptor and neuronal subtypes involved. In the present study we sought to
characterize the electrophysiological responses of specific subsets of lamina II 
interneurons from rat and marmoset spinal cord. Neurons were grouped by
morphology and by action potential firing properties. Whole-cell voltage-clamp
recordings from lamina II dorsal horn neurons of adult rats showed that bath
applied acetylcholine increased, decreased or had no effect on spontaneous
synaptic current activity in a cell-type specific manner. ACh modulated
inhibitory synaptic activity in 80% of neurons, whereas excitatory synaptic
activity was affected in less than 50% of neurons. In whole-cell current clamp
recordings, brief somatic application of ACh induced cell-type specific responses
in 79% of rat lamina II neurons, which included: depolarization and action
potential firing, subthreshold membrane depolarization, biphasic responses
characterized by transient depolarization followed by hyperpolarization and
membrane hyperpolarization alone. Similar responses were seen in marmoset lamina 
II neurons and the properties of each neuron group were consistent across
species. ACh-induced hyperpolarization was blocked by the muscarinic antagonist
atropine and all forms of acetylcholine-induced depolarization were blocked by
the nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine. The cholinergic system plays an important 
role in regulating nociception and this study contributes to our understanding of
how circuit activity is controlled by ACh at a cellular level in primate and
rodent spinal cord.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2021.108755 
PMID: 34416268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

