

881. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 May 16;114(20):E4075-E4084. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1620115114. Epub 2017 May 1.

Opposing roles of primate areas 25 and 32 and their putative rodent homologs in
the regulation of negative emotion.

Wallis CU(1)(2), Cardinal RN(2)(3)(4), Alexander L(1)(2), Roberts AC(1)(2),
Clarke HF(5)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 OQQ, United
Kingdom.
(4)Liaison Psychiatry Service, Cambridge and Peterborough National Health Service
Foundation Trust, Cambridge CB2 OQQ, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom; hfc23@cam.ac.uk.

Disorders of dysregulated negative emotion such as depression and anxiety also
feature increased cardiovascular mortality and decreased heart-rate variability
(HRV). These disorders are correlated with dysfunction within areas 25 and 32 of 
the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC), but a causal relationship between
dysregulation of these areas and such symptoms has not been demonstrated.
Furthermore, cross-species translation is limited by inconsistent findings
between rodent fear extinction and human neuroimaging studies of negative
emotion. To reconcile these literatures, we applied an investigative approach to 
the brain-body interactions at the core of negative emotional dysregulation. We
show that, in marmoset monkeys (a nonhuman primate that has far greater vmPFC
homology to humans than rodents), areas 25 and 32 have causal yet opposing roles 
in regulating the cardiovascular and behavioral correlates of negative emotion.
In novel Pavlovian fear conditioning and extinction paradigms, pharmacological
inactivation of area 25 decreased the autonomic and behavioral correlates of
negative emotion expectation, whereas inactivation of area 32 increased them via 
generalization. Area 25 inactivation also increased resting HRV. These findings
are inconsistent with current theories of rodent/primate prefrontal functional
similarity, and provide insight into the role of these brain regions in affective
disorders. They demonstrate that area 32 hypoactivity causes behavioral
generalization relevant to anxiety, and that area 25 is a causal node governing
the emotional and cardiovascular symptomatology relevant to anxiety and
depression.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1620115114 
PMCID: PMC5441783
PMID: 28461477  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


882. Primate Biol. 2017 Apr 28;4(1):93-100. doi: 10.5194/pb-4-93-2017. eCollection
2017.

Feasibility of intravitreal injections and ophthalmic safety assessment in
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys.

Korbmacher B(1), Atorf J(2), Fridrichs-Gromoll S(1), Hill M(3), Korte S(1),
Kremers J(2), Mansfield K(3), Mecklenburg L(1), Pilling A(3), Wiederhold A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Covance Preclinical Services GmbH, Kesselfeld 29, 48163 Münster, Germany.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Erlangen, Maximiliansplatz 2,
91054 Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Klybeckstraße, 4002 Basel, Switzerland.

To safeguard patients, regulatory authorities require that new drugs that are to 
be given by the intravitreal (IVT) route are assessed for their safety in a
laboratory species using the same route of administration. Due to the high
similarity of ocular morphology and physiology between humans and nonhuman
primates (NHPs) and due to the species specificity of many biotherapeutics, the
monkey is often the only appropriate model. To this end, intravitreal
administration and assessment of ocular toxicity are well established in
cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). In contrast, the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) is not a standard model for ocular toxicity studies due to
its general sensitivity to laboratory investigations and small eye size. It was
the purpose of the present work to study whether the marmoset is a useful
alternative to the cynomolgus monkey for use in intravitreal toxicological
studies. Six marmoset monkeys received repeated (every 2 weeks for a total of
four doses) intravitreal injections of 10 or 20  µ L of a placebo. The animals
were assessed for measurements of intraocular pressure (IOP), standard
ophthalmological investigations and electroretinography (ERG). At the end of the 
dosing period, the animals were sacrificed and the eyes were evaluated
histologically. ERG revealed similar results when comparing predose to
end-of-study data, and there was no difference between the two dose volumes. A
transient increase in the IOP was seen immediately after dosing, which was more
pronounced after dosing of 20  µ L compared to 10  µ L. Ophthalmologic and
microscopic observations did not show any significant changes. Therefore, it can 
be concluded that 10  µ L as well as 20  µ L intravitreal injections of a placebo
are well tolerated in the marmoset. These results demonstrate that the common
marmoset is an alternative to the cynomolgus monkey for intravitreal toxicity
testing.

Copyright: © 2017 Birgit Korbmacher et al.

DOI: 10.5194/pb-4-93-2017 
PMCID: PMC7041524
PMID: 32110696 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.

