

890. J Neurophysiol. 2017 Jul 1;118(1):203-218. doi: 10.1152/jn.00954.2016. Epub 2017 
Apr 5.

Dynamic population codes of multiplexed stimulus features in primate area MT.

Goddard E(1)(2), Solomon SG(3), Carlson TA(4)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia; erin.goddard@mcgill.ca.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders (CCD), Macquarie
University, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; and.
(3)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, London,
United Kingdom.
(4)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.

The middle-temporal area (MT) of primate visual cortex is critical in the
analysis of visual motion. Single-unit studies suggest that the response dynamics
of neurons within area MT depend on stimulus features, but how these dynamics
emerge at the population level, and how feature representations interact, is not 
clear. Here, we used multivariate classification analysis to study how stimulus
features are represented in the spiking activity of populations of neurons in
area MT of marmoset monkey. Using representational similarity analysis we
distinguished the emerging representations of moving grating and dot field
stimuli. We show that representations of stimulus orientation, spatial frequency,
and speed are evident near the onset of the population response, while the
representation of stimulus direction is slower to emerge and sustained throughout
the stimulus-evoked response. We further found a spatiotemporal asymmetry in the 
emergence of direction representations. Representations for high spatial
frequencies and low temporal frequencies are initially orientation dependent,
while those for high temporal frequencies and low spatial frequencies are more
sensitive to motion direction. Our analyses reveal a complex interplay of feature
representations in area MT population response that may explain the
stimulus-dependent dynamics of motion vision.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Simultaneous
multielectrode recordings can measure population-level codes that previously were
only inferred from single-electrode recordings. However, many multielectrode
recordings are analyzed using univariate single-electrode analysis approaches,
which fail to fully utilize the population-level information. Here, we overcome
these limitations by applying multivariate pattern classification analysis and
representational similarity analysis to large-scale recordings from
middle-temporal area (MT) in marmoset monkeys. Our analyses reveal a dynamic
interplay of feature representations in area MT population response.

Copyright Â© 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00954.2016 
PMCID: PMC5494367
PMID: 28381492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. eNeuro. 2017 Mar 28;4(2). pii: ENEURO.0250-16.2017. doi:
10.1523/ENEURO.0250-16.2017. eCollection 2017 Mar-Apr.

Transgenic Monkey Model of the Polyglutamine Diseases Recapitulating Progressive 
Neurological Symptoms.

Tomioka I(1), Ishibashi H(1), Minakawa EN(2), Motohashi HH(1), Takayama O(1),
Saito Y(3), Popiel HA(2), Puentes S(1), Owari K(1), Nakatani T(1), Nogami N(1),
Yamamoto K(4), Noguchi S(5), Yonekawa T(5), Tanaka Y(3), Fujita N(1), Suzuki
H(1), Kikuchi H(2), Aizawa S(2), Nagano S(6), Yamada D(2), Nishino I(5), Ichinohe
N(7), Wada K(2), Kohsaka S(8), Nagai Y(2), Seki K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(2)Department of Degenerative Neurological Diseases, National Institute of
Neuroscience National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, National Institute of
Neuroscience National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(4)Division of Laboratory Animals Resources, National Institute of Neuroscience
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(5)Department of Neuromuscular Research, National Institute of Neuroscience
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(6)Department of Peripheral Nervous System Research, National Institute of
Neuroscience National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(7)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(8)Department of Neurochemistry, National Institute of Neuroscience National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

Age-associated neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease,
Parkinson's disease, and the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases, are becoming
prevalent as a consequence of elongation of the human lifespan. Although various 
rodent models have been developed to study and overcome these diseases, they have
limitations in their translational research utility owing to differences from
humans in brain structure and function and in drug metabolism. Here, we generated
a transgenic marmoset model of the polyQ diseases, showing progressive
neurological symptoms including motor impairment. Seven transgenic marmosets were
produced by lentiviral introduction of the human ataxin 3 gene with 120 CAG
repeats encoding an expanded polyQ stretch. Although all offspring showed no
neurological symptoms at birth, three marmosets with higher transgene expression 
developed neurological symptoms of varying degrees at 3-4 months after birth,
followed by gradual decreases in body weight gain, spontaneous activity, and grip
strength, indicating time-dependent disease progression. Pathological
examinations revealed neurodegeneration and intranuclear polyQ protein inclusions
accompanied by gliosis, which recapitulate the neuropathological features of
polyQ disease patients. Consistent with neuronal loss in the cerebellum, brain
MRI analyses in one living symptomatic marmoset detected enlargement of the
fourth ventricle, which suggests cerebellar atrophy. Notably, successful germline
transgene transmission was confirmed in the second-generation offspring derived
from the symptomatic transgenic marmoset gamete. Because the accumulation of
abnormal proteins is a shared pathomechanism among various neurodegenerative
diseases, we suggest that this new marmoset model will contribute toward
elucidating the pathomechanisms of and developing clinically applicable therapies
for neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1523/ENEURO.0250-16.2017 
PMCID: PMC5368386
PMID: 28374014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

