

892. Front Neural Circuits. 2017 Mar 17;11:17. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2017.00017.
eCollection 2017.

Representation of Glossy Material Surface in Ventral Superior Temporal Sulcal
Area of Common Marmosets.

Miyakawa N(1), Banno T(2), Abe H(3), Tani T(3), Suzuki W(1), Ichinohe N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and PsychiatryKodaira, Japan; Ichinohe Neural System
Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Brain
Science InstituteWako, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry Kodaira, Japan.
(3)Ichinohe Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher
Brain Function, RIKEN Brain Science Institute Wako, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is one of the smallest species of
primates, with high visual recognition abilities that allow them to judge the
identity and quality of food and objects in their environment. To address the
cortical processing of visual information related to material surface features in
marmosets, we presented a set of stimuli that have identical three-dimensional
shapes (bone, torus or amorphous) but different material appearances (ceramic,
glass, fur, leather, metal, stone, wood, or matte) to anesthetized marmoset, and 
recorded multiunit activities from an area ventral to the superior temporal
sulcus (STS) using multi-shanked, and depth resolved multi-electrode array. Out
of 143 visually responsive multiunits recorded from four animals, 29% had
significant main effect only of the material, 3% only of the shape and 43% of
both the material and the shape. Furthermore, we found neuronal cluster(s), in
which most cells: (1) showed a significant main effect in material appearance;
(2) the best stimulus was a glossy material (glass or metal); and (3) had reduced
response to the pixel-shuffled version of the glossy material images. The
location of the gloss-selective area was in agreement with previous macaque
studies, showing activation in the ventral bank of STS. Our results suggest that 
perception of gloss is an important ability preserved across wide range of
primate species.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2017.00017 
PMCID: PMC5355424
PMID: 28367117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Mol Biol Evol. 2017 Jul 1;34(7):1629-1643. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msx105.

Convergent Balancing Selection on the Mu-Opioid Receptor in Primates.

Sweeney CG(1), Rando JM(1), Panas HN(1), Miller GM(1), Platt DM(1), Vallender
EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical
School, Southborough, MA.

The mu opioid receptor is involved in many natural processes including stress
response, pleasure, and pain. Mutations in the gene also have been associated
with opiate and alcohol addictions as well as with responsivity to medication
targeting these disorders. Two common and mutually exclusive polymorphisms have
been identified in humans, A118G (N40D), found commonly in non-African
populations, and C17T (V6A), found almost exclusively in African populations.
Although A118G has been studied extensively for associations and in functional
assays, C17T is much less well understood. In addition to a parallel polymorphism
previously identified in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), C77G (P26R),
resequencing in additional non-human primate species identifies further common
variation: C140T (P47L) in cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis), G55C (D19H)
in vervet monkeys (Chlorocebus aethiops sabeus), A111T (L37F) in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), and C55T (P19S) in squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis
peruviensis). Functional effects on downstream signaling are observed for each of
these variants following treatment with the endogenous agonist β-endorphin and
the exogenous agonists morphine, DAMGO ([d-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol]-enkephalin),
and fentanyl. In addition to demonstrating the importance of functional
equivalency in reference to population variation for minority health, this also
shows how common evolutionary pressures have produced similar phenotypes across
species, suggesting a shared response to environmental needs and perhaps
elucidating the mechanism by which these organism-environment interactions are
mediated physiologically and molecularly. These studies set the stage for future 
investigations of shared functional polymorphisms across species as a new genetic
tool for translational research.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msx105 
PMCID: PMC6279279
PMID: 28333316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

