

894. Brain Struct Funct. 2017 Sep;222(7):3283-3293. doi: 10.1007/s00429-017-1404-4.
Epub 2017 Mar 22.

Neuronal degeneration in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus following lesions 
of primary visual cortex: comparison of young adult and geriatric marmoset
monkeys.

Atapour N(1)(2)(3), Worthy KH(4)(5), Lui LL(4)(6)(5), Yu HH(4)(6)(5), Rosa
MGP(4)(6)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash
University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia. nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.
(2)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.
(3)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Melbourne, VIC, 3800,
Australia. nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.
(4)Neuroscience Program, Monash Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash
University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(5)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Melbourne, VIC, 3800,
Australia.
(6)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Neuronal loss in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) is a consequence of lesions
of the primary visual cortex (V1). Despite the importance of this phenomenon in
understanding the residual capacities of the primate visual system following V1
damage, few quantitative studies are available, and the effect of age at the time
of lesion remains unknown. We compared the volume, neuronal number, and neuronal 
density in the LGN, 6-21 months after unilateral V1 lesions in marmoset monkeys. 
Stereological sampling techniques and neuronal nuclei (NeuN) staining were used
to assess the effects of similar-sized lesions in adult (2-4 years) and geriatric
(10-14 years) animals. We found that lesions involving the opercular and caudal
calcarine parts of V1 caused robust loss of neurons in topographically
corresponding regions of the ipsilateral LGN (lesion projection zones),
concomitant with a substantial reduction in the volume of this nucleus. Neuronal 
density was markedly reduced in the lesion projection zones, relative to the
corresponding regions of the contralateral LGN, or the LGN in non-lesioned
animals. Moreover, the percentage decrease in neuronal density within the lesion 
projection zones was significantly greater in the geriatric group, compared with 
the adult groups. The volume and neuronal density in the contralateral LGN of
lesioned adult and geriatric marmosets were similar to those in non-lesioned
animals. These results show that the primate LGN becomes more vulnerable to
degeneration with advancing age. However, even in geriatric primates there is a
population of LGN neurons which survives degeneration, and which could play a
role in blindsight.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-017-1404-4 
PMID: 28331974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. J Med Primatol. 2017 Jun;46(3):70-74. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12262. Epub 2017 Mar 21.

Hypoxemia after single-shot anesthesia in common marmosets.

Konoike N(1), Miwa M(1), Ishigami A(1), Nakamura K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi, Japan.

BACKGROUND: It remains unknown how single-shot anesthesia influences physical
parameters, especially respiratory function and blood oxygen level of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) which came to be used for laboratory research.
METHODS: We measured blood oxygen levels, both before and after oxygenation, in
13 common marmosets under two single-shot anesthesia conditions:
ketamine/xylazine/atropine and alphaxalone.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: We found that SpO2 values decreased to about 80% in the 
ketamine/xylazine/atropine protocol and fell just below 90% in the alphaxalone
protocol. We observed a clear decrease in PaO2 values under the anesthetized
condition compared to the awake condition. Our data indicate that single-shot
anesthesia may cause hypoxemia in marmosets. Previous studies on other non-human 
primate have reported no SpO2 decrease and hypoxemia; thus, our experiment
suggests that marmosets may have a more fragile respiratory system and require
intensive veterinary care during anesthesia.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12262 
PMID: 28326553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

