

895. J Med Primatol. 2017 Jun;46(3):70-74. doi: 10.1111/jmp.12262. Epub 2017 Mar 21.

Hypoxemia after single-shot anesthesia in common marmosets.

Konoike N(1), Miwa M(1), Ishigami A(1), Nakamura K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi, Japan.

BACKGROUND: It remains unknown how single-shot anesthesia influences physical
parameters, especially respiratory function and blood oxygen level of common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) which came to be used for laboratory research.
METHODS: We measured blood oxygen levels, both before and after oxygenation, in
13 common marmosets under two single-shot anesthesia conditions:
ketamine/xylazine/atropine and alphaxalone.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: We found that SpO2 values decreased to about 80% in the 
ketamine/xylazine/atropine protocol and fell just below 90% in the alphaxalone
protocol. We observed a clear decrease in PaO2 values under the anesthetized
condition compared to the awake condition. Our data indicate that single-shot
anesthesia may cause hypoxemia in marmosets. Previous studies on other non-human 
primate have reported no SpO2 decrease and hypoxemia; thus, our experiment
suggests that marmosets may have a more fragile respiratory system and require
intensive veterinary care during anesthesia.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jmp.12262 
PMID: 28326553  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Endocrinology. 2017 Apr 1;158(4):804-814. doi: 10.1210/en.2016-1920.

Variation in the Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 Gene in Primates.

Rotwein P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas
Tech Health University Health Sciences Center, El Paso, Texas 79905.

Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) is a multifunctional peptide that is involved
in a wide range of physiological and pathophysiological processes in many animal 
species, ranging from somatic growth in children to metabolism and tissue
regeneration and repair in adults. The IGF1 gene is under multifactorial
regulation in the few species in which it has been studied, with major control
being exerted by growth hormone through a gene expression pathway involving
inducible binding of the STAT5b transcription factor to dispersed enhancer
elements. In this study, using resources available in public genomic databases,
genes encoding IGF1 have been analyzed in a cohort of six nonhuman primate
species representing >60 million years of evolutionary diversification from a
common ancestor: chimpanzee, gorilla, macaque, olive baboon, marmoset, and mouse 
lemur. The IGF1 gene has been well conserved among these primates. Similar to
human IGF1, each gene appears to be composed of six exons and five introns, and
contains recognizable tandem promoters, each with a unique leader exon. Exon and 
intron lengths are very similar, and DNA sequence conservation is high, not only 
in orthologous exons and promoter regions, but also in putative growth
hormone-activated STAT5b-binding enhancers that are found in analogous locations 
in IGF1 intron 3 and in 5' distal intergenic DNA. Taken together, the high level 
of organizational and nucleotide sequence similarity in the IGF1 gene and locus
among these seven species supports the contention that common regulatory
paradigms had existed prior to the onset of primate speciation >85 million years 
ago.

Copyright © 2017 Endocrine Society.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2016-1920 
PMCID: PMC5460808
PMID: 28324014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

