

896. Endocrinology. 2017 Apr 1;158(4):804-814. doi: 10.1210/en.2016-1920.

Variation in the Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 Gene in Primates.

Rotwein P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas
Tech Health University Health Sciences Center, El Paso, Texas 79905.

Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) is a multifunctional peptide that is involved
in a wide range of physiological and pathophysiological processes in many animal 
species, ranging from somatic growth in children to metabolism and tissue
regeneration and repair in adults. The IGF1 gene is under multifactorial
regulation in the few species in which it has been studied, with major control
being exerted by growth hormone through a gene expression pathway involving
inducible binding of the STAT5b transcription factor to dispersed enhancer
elements. In this study, using resources available in public genomic databases,
genes encoding IGF1 have been analyzed in a cohort of six nonhuman primate
species representing >60 million years of evolutionary diversification from a
common ancestor: chimpanzee, gorilla, macaque, olive baboon, marmoset, and mouse 
lemur. The IGF1 gene has been well conserved among these primates. Similar to
human IGF1, each gene appears to be composed of six exons and five introns, and
contains recognizable tandem promoters, each with a unique leader exon. Exon and 
intron lengths are very similar, and DNA sequence conservation is high, not only 
in orthologous exons and promoter regions, but also in putative growth
hormone-activated STAT5b-binding enhancers that are found in analogous locations 
in IGF1 intron 3 and in 5' distal intergenic DNA. Taken together, the high level 
of organizational and nucleotide sequence similarity in the IGF1 gene and locus
among these seven species supports the contention that common regulatory
paradigms had existed prior to the onset of primate speciation >85 million years 
ago.

Copyright © 2017 Endocrine Society.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2016-1920 
PMCID: PMC5460808
PMID: 28324014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. IEEE Trans Ultrason Ferroelectr Freq Control. 2017 May;64(5):798-810. doi:
10.1109/TUFFC.2017.2681695. Epub 2017 Mar 13.

Targeting Effects on the Volume of the Focused Ultrasound-Induced Blood-Brain
Barrier Opening in Nonhuman Primates In Vivo.

Karakatsani MEM, Samiotaki GM, Downs ME, Ferrera VP, Konofagou EE.

Drug delivery to subcortical regions is susceptible to the blood-brain barrier
(BBB) impeding the molecular exchange between the blood stream and the brain
parenchyma. Focused ultrasound (FUS) coupled with the administration of
microbubbles has been proved to open the BBB locally, transiently, and
noninvasively both in rodents and in nonhuman-primates (NHPs). The development of
this disruption technique independent of MRI monitoring is of primordial
importance yet restrained to the targeting optimization. This paper establishes
the linear relationship of the incidence angle with the volume of BBB opening (
VBBB ) and the peak negative pressure when sonicating the caudate nucleus and the
putamen region of five NHPs. In addition, the effect of central nervous system
structures on the opening morphology is evaluated by identification of the
gray-to-white-matter ratio at the opening site. Finally, the targeting accuracy
is assessed through the estimation of the geometric and angle shift of the
opening from the targeted region. Interestingly, results prove a monotonic
increase of the opening volume with close to normal incidence angles. Moreover,
80.35% of the opening lies on gray-matter regions compared with only 19.41%
attributed to the white matter. The opening was found to be shifted axially,
toward the transducer, and laterally with an average angle shift of 4.5°.
Finally, we were capable of showing reproducibility of targeting accuracy with
the same stereotactic and ultrasonic parameters. This paper documents the a
priori prediction of the opening volume through manipulation of the angle and
pressure as well as establishing the predictability, accuracy, and safety of
FUS-induced BBB opening in NHPs.

DOI: 10.1109/TUFFC.2017.2681695 
PMCID: PMC5542068
PMID: 28320656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

