

897. IEEE Trans Ultrason Ferroelectr Freq Control. 2017 May;64(5):798-810. doi:
10.1109/TUFFC.2017.2681695. Epub 2017 Mar 13.

Targeting Effects on the Volume of the Focused Ultrasound-Induced Blood-Brain
Barrier Opening in Nonhuman Primates In Vivo.

Karakatsani MEM, Samiotaki GM, Downs ME, Ferrera VP, Konofagou EE.

Drug delivery to subcortical regions is susceptible to the blood-brain barrier
(BBB) impeding the molecular exchange between the blood stream and the brain
parenchyma. Focused ultrasound (FUS) coupled with the administration of
microbubbles has been proved to open the BBB locally, transiently, and
noninvasively both in rodents and in nonhuman-primates (NHPs). The development of
this disruption technique independent of MRI monitoring is of primordial
importance yet restrained to the targeting optimization. This paper establishes
the linear relationship of the incidence angle with the volume of BBB opening (
VBBB ) and the peak negative pressure when sonicating the caudate nucleus and the
putamen region of five NHPs. In addition, the effect of central nervous system
structures on the opening morphology is evaluated by identification of the
gray-to-white-matter ratio at the opening site. Finally, the targeting accuracy
is assessed through the estimation of the geometric and angle shift of the
opening from the targeted region. Interestingly, results prove a monotonic
increase of the opening volume with close to normal incidence angles. Moreover,
80.35% of the opening lies on gray-matter regions compared with only 19.41%
attributed to the white matter. The opening was found to be shifted axially,
toward the transducer, and laterally with an average angle shift of 4.5Â°.
Finally, we were capable of showing reproducibility of targeting accuracy with
the same stereotactic and ultrasonic parameters. This paper documents the a
priori prediction of the opening volume through manipulation of the angle and
pressure as well as establishing the predictability, accuracy, and safety of
FUS-induced BBB opening in NHPs.

DOI: 10.1109/TUFFC.2017.2681695 
PMCID: PMC5542068
PMID: 28320656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Comp Med. 2016 Dec 1;66(6):468-473.

Tranexamic Acid and Supportive Measures to Treat Wasting Marmoset Syndrome.

Yoshimoto T(1), Niimi K(1), Takahashi E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Research Resources Center, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Saitama, Japan;,
Email: kimie@brain.riken.jp.
(2)Research Resources Center, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Saitama, Japan.

Wasting marmoset syndrome (WMS) has high incidence and mortality rates and is one
of the most important problems in captive common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
colonies. Despite several reports on WMS, little information is available
regarding its reliable treatment. We previously reported that marmosets with WMS 
had high serum levels of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9). MMP9 is thought to be
a key enzyme in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease, the main disease 
state of WMS, and is activated by plasmin, a fibrinolytic factor. In a previous
study, treating mice with an antibody to inhibit plasmin prevented the
progression of inflammatory bowel disease. Here we examined the efficacy of
tranexamic acid, a commonly used plasmin inhibitor, for the treatment of WMS,
with supportive measures including amino acid and iron formulations. Six colony
marmosets with WMS received tranexamic acid therapy with supportive measures for 
8 wk. The body weight, Hct, and serum albumin levels of these 6 marmosets were
increased and serum MMP9 levels decreased after this regimen. Therefore,
tranexamic acid therapy may be a new and useful treatment for WMS.


PMCID: PMC5157962
PMID: 28304250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

