

899. Science. 2017 Mar 17;355(6330):1120-1122. doi: 10.1126/science.aam7443. Epub 2017
Mar 16.

Learning from monkey "talk".

Snowdon CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
snowdon@wisc.edu.

DOI: 10.1126/science.aam7443 
PMID: 28302806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2017 Jun 1;312(6):F1026-F1034. doi:
10.1152/ajprenal.00013.2017. Epub 2017 Mar 15.

How important is the α1-adrenoceptor in primate and rodent proximal urethra? Sex 
differences in the contribution of α1-adrenoceptor to urethral contractility.

Alexandre EC(1), de Oliveira MG(2), Campos R(2), Kiguti LR(2), Calmasini FB(2),
Silva FH(2), Grant AD(3), Yoshimura N(4), Antunes E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of
Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil; edu86alex@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of
Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Wolfson Centre for Age-Related Diseases, King's College London, London, United
Kingdom; and.
(4)Department of Urology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Urethral smooth muscle (USM) contributes to urinary continence by contracting
during the urine storage phase, which is mainly mediated by activation of
postjunctional α1-adrenoceptors. Males and females show differences in the
functioning of the lower urinary tract and the most common urinary tract symptoms
(LUTS). LUTS in men typically occur in association with bladder outlet
obstruction, whereas in women urinary urge-incontinence symptoms are more common.
Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate sex differences in α1-adrenoceptor
subtype expression and their importance in proximal urethra contraction in the
mouse (C57BL6/J) and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Contractile responses to
phenylephrine, norepinephrine, potassium chloride (KCl), and electrical-field
stimulation (EFS) were evaluated. Phenylephrine, norepinephrine, KCl, and EFS
produced markedly greater contractions in male mice and marmoset USM compared
with females. The sex differences remained unchanged by Nω-nitro-l-arginine
(l-NAME; nitric oxide synthase inhibitor), atropine (muscarinic receptor
antagonist), and PPADS (P2X1-purinoceptor antagonist). Additionally, selective
α1A (but not α1B- and α1D-)-adrenoceptor antagonists significantly reduced
phenylephrine-induced USM contractions. qRT-PCR for α1A-, B-, and D-adrenoceptor 
subtypes revealed a marked presence of the α1A-adrenoceptor subtype in male USM, 
but not females. Male mouse urethra also exhibited a higher tyrosine hydroxylase 
mRNA expression. Histomorphometric analysis showed a greater USM area in male
than female mice. In conclusion, male mouse and marmoset proximal USM shows
strong α1A- adrenoceptor-induced contractions and abundant α1A-adrenoceptor
expression, whereas α1A-adrenoceptor-mediated mechanisms are much less important 
in females. The differential expression of α1-adrenoceptors in the proximal
urethra may contribute to the higher incidence of urinary incontinence in women
and obstructed voiding in men.

Copyright © 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00013.2017 
PMID: 28298357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

