

900. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2017 Jun 1;312(6):F1026-F1034. doi:
10.1152/ajprenal.00013.2017. Epub 2017 Mar 15.

How important is the α1-adrenoceptor in primate and rodent proximal urethra? Sex 
differences in the contribution of α1-adrenoceptor to urethral contractility.

Alexandre EC(1), de Oliveira MG(2), Campos R(2), Kiguti LR(2), Calmasini FB(2),
Silva FH(2), Grant AD(3), Yoshimura N(4), Antunes E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of
Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil; edu86alex@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of
Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Wolfson Centre for Age-Related Diseases, King's College London, London, United
Kingdom; and.
(4)Department of Urology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Urethral smooth muscle (USM) contributes to urinary continence by contracting
during the urine storage phase, which is mainly mediated by activation of
postjunctional α1-adrenoceptors. Males and females show differences in the
functioning of the lower urinary tract and the most common urinary tract symptoms
(LUTS). LUTS in men typically occur in association with bladder outlet
obstruction, whereas in women urinary urge-incontinence symptoms are more common.
Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate sex differences in α1-adrenoceptor
subtype expression and their importance in proximal urethra contraction in the
mouse (C57BL6/J) and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Contractile responses to
phenylephrine, norepinephrine, potassium chloride (KCl), and electrical-field
stimulation (EFS) were evaluated. Phenylephrine, norepinephrine, KCl, and EFS
produced markedly greater contractions in male mice and marmoset USM compared
with females. The sex differences remained unchanged by Nω-nitro-l-arginine
(l-NAME; nitric oxide synthase inhibitor), atropine (muscarinic receptor
antagonist), and PPADS (P2X1-purinoceptor antagonist). Additionally, selective
α1A (but not α1B- and α1D-)-adrenoceptor antagonists significantly reduced
phenylephrine-induced USM contractions. qRT-PCR for α1A-, B-, and D-adrenoceptor 
subtypes revealed a marked presence of the α1A-adrenoceptor subtype in male USM, 
but not females. Male mouse urethra also exhibited a higher tyrosine hydroxylase 
mRNA expression. Histomorphometric analysis showed a greater USM area in male
than female mice. In conclusion, male mouse and marmoset proximal USM shows
strong α1A- adrenoceptor-induced contractions and abundant α1A-adrenoceptor
expression, whereas α1A-adrenoceptor-mediated mechanisms are much less important 
in females. The differential expression of α1-adrenoceptors in the proximal
urethra may contribute to the higher incidence of urinary incontinence in women
and obstructed voiding in men.

Copyright © 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00013.2017 
PMID: 28298357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Neurosci Res. 2017 Aug;121:54-59. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2017.03.005. Epub 2017
Mar 10.

Retinal, NPY- and 5ht- inputs to the aged suprachiasmatic nucleus in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Engelberth RCGJ(1), Silva KDA(2), Fiuza FP(2), Soares JG(3), Costa MSMO(3), Lima 
RRM(3), Nascimento ESD Júnior(3), Santos JRD(4), Cavalcanti JRLP(5), Cavalcante
JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurochemical Studies, Physiology Department, Biosciences
Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, 59072-970 Natal, RN, Brazil.
Electronic address: rovenaclara@gmail.com.
(2)Laboratory of Neurochemical Studies, Physiology Department, Biosciences
Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, 59072-970 Natal, RN, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Morphology Department, Biosciences Center, Federal
University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.
(4)Department of Biosciences, Federal University of Sergipe, Itabaiana, Sergipe, 
Brazil.
(5)Laboratory of Experimental Neurology, Department of Biomedical Sciences,
Health Science Center, University of State of Rio Grande do Norte, Mossoró, RN,
Brazil.

The circadian timing system (CTS) anticipates optimal physiological patterns in
response to environmental fluctuations, such as light-dark cycle. Since
age-related disruption of circadian synchronization is linked to several
pathological conditions, we characterized alterations of neurochemical
constituents and retinal projections to the major pacemaker of CTS, the
suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), in adult and aged marmosets. We used intraocular
injections of neural tracer Cholera toxin b (CTb) to report age-related
reductions in CTb, neuropeptide Y and serotonin immunoreactivities. Considering
these projections arise in SCN from nuclei that relay environmental information
to entrain the circadian clock, we provide important anatomical correlates to
age-associated physiological deficits.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and Japan Neuroscience Society. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2017.03.005 
PMID: 28288865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

