

902. Primate Biol. 2017 Mar 14;4(1):61-67. doi: 10.5194/pb-4-61-2017. eCollection
2017.

Report on the presence of a group of golden-headed lion tamarins (Leontopithecus 
chrysomelas), an endangered primate species in a rubber plantation in southern
Bahia, Brazil.

De Vleeschouwer KM(1)(2), Oliveira LC(3)(4)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research and Conservation, Royal Zoological Society of Antwerp,
2018 Antwerp, Belgium.
(2)Bicho do Mato Instituto de Pesquisa, CEP 30360-082, Belo Horizonte, MG,
Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Ciências, Faculdade de Formação de Professores, UERJ, CEP
24435-005, São Gonçalo, RJ, Brazil.
(4)Programa de pós-graduação em Ecologia e Conservação da Biodiversidade,
Universidade Estadual de Santa Cruz, UESC, Salobrinho, CEP 45662-900, Ilhéus, BA,
Brazil.

In a landscape fragmented by agriculture, the extent to which forest-dwelling
primates can use the matrix between fragments can be critical for their long-term
survival. So far, the golden-headed lion tamarin (Leontopithecus chrysomelas), an
endangered primate inhabiting the Atlantic Forest of south Bahia, is only known
to use shaded cacao (Theobroma cacao) agroforests within the matrix. We report on
the use of a rubber plantation by a group of golden-headed lion tamarins between 
August 2013 and January 2014. The group used the rubber plantation on 16 of the
22 observation days (73 %), and we recorded behaviours such as eating, grooming
and sleeping, consistent with the use of the area as a home range. We also
observed associations with Wied's marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii). The locations of
group sightings were not uniformly spread across the entire area of the rubber
plantation, suggesting preferred use of certain areas. The presence of resources 
such as jackfruits (Artocarpus heterophyllus) and epiphytic bromeliads may be
attracting both species to these plantations. In addition to shaded cacao
plantations, rubber plantations with the appropriate structure may be a viable
option for increasing forest connectivity for both species in south Bahia,
reconciling economic rubber production with primate conservation.

Copyright: © 2017 Kristel M. De Vleeschouwer and Leonardo C. Oliveira.

DOI: 10.5194/pb-4-61-2017 
PMCID: PMC8137856
PMID: 34084891 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.


903. Hear Res. 2017 May;348:98-111. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2017.03.001. Epub 2017 Mar
9.

Contributions of sensory tuning to auditory-vocal interactions in marmoset
auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery, University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic
address: seliades@med.upenn.edu.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

During speech, humans continuously listen to their own vocal output to ensure
accurate communication. Such self-monitoring is thought to require the
integration of information about the feedback of vocal acoustics with internal
motor control signals. The neural mechanism of this auditory-vocal interaction
remains largely unknown at the cellular level. Previous studies in naturally
vocalizing marmosets have demonstrated diverse neural activities in auditory
cortex during vocalization, dominated by a vocalization-induced suppression of
neural firing. How underlying auditory tuning properties of these neurons might
contribute to this sensory-motor processing is unknown. In the present study, we 
quantitatively compared marmoset auditory cortex neural activities during vocal
production with those during passive listening. We found that neurons excited
during vocalization were readily driven by passive playback of vocalizations and 
other acoustic stimuli. In contrast, neurons suppressed during vocalization
exhibited more diverse playback responses, including responses that were not
predictable by auditory tuning properties. These results suggest that
vocalization-related excitation in auditory cortex is largely a sensory-driven
response. In contrast, vocalization-induced suppression is not well predicted by 
a neuron's auditory responses, supporting the prevailing theory that internal
motor-related signals contribute to the auditory-vocal interaction observed in
auditory cortex.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2017.03.001 
PMCID: PMC5392437
PMID: 28284736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

