

910. Virus Res. 2017 Mar 15;232:113-122. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2017.02.010. Epub
2017 Feb 24.

EBV early lytic protein BFRF1 alters emerin distribution and post-translational
modification.

Yadav S(1), Libotte F(1), Buono E(1), Valia S(2), Farina GA(3), Faggioni A(1),
Farina A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Dep. Experimental Medicine University of Rome "La Sapienza", Italy.
(2)Dep. Molecular Medicine University of Rome "La Sapienza", Italy.
(3)Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(4)Dep. Experimental Medicine University of Rome "La Sapienza", Italy; Boston
University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address:
antonella.farina@uniroma1.it.

The nuclear envelope (NE), a structural element of fundamental importance for the
cell, is the first barrier that meets a virus in the early stages of viral
maturation. Therefore, in order to allow the passage of nucleocapsids, viruses
are known to modulate the architecture of the nuclear membrane to permit a
proficient viral infection. Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV), a pathogen from Herpesvirus
family, possesses two well conserved proteins, BFRF1 and BFLF2, which together
form the heterodimeric nuclear egress complex (NEC) that is involved in the early
steps of nuclear egress. Here we show that EBV replication causes the
delocalization of emerin, a cellular LEM-domain protein normally distributed on
the nuclear rim. We also demonstrate that the early lytic protein BFRF1 is
responsible for emerin delocalization. Expression of BFRF1 alone or in
combination with BFLF2 induces emerin hyperphosphorylation. Altogether, these
results suggest a novel mechanism by which EBV exploits the cellular machinery
for nucleocapsid egress.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2017.02.010 
PMID: 28238874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. PLoS One. 2017 Feb 24;12(2):e0172093. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0172093.
eCollection 2017.

Comparative pathology of rhesus macaque and common marmoset animal models with
Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus.

Yu P(1)(2), Xu Y(1)(2), Deng W(1)(2), Bao L(1)(2), Huang L(1)(2), Xu Y(1)(2), Yao
Y(1)(2), Qin C(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Laboratory Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences
(CAMS) and Comparative Medicine Center, Peking Union Medical College (PUMC), Key 
Laboratory of Human Disease Comparative Medicine, Ministry of Health, Beijing Key
Laboratory for Animal Models of Emerging and Remerging Infectious Diseases,
Beijing, China.
(2)Institute of Laboratory Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 5
Panjiayuan Nanli, Chaoyang District, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), which is caused by a newly discovered
coronavirus (CoV), has recently emerged. It causes severe viral pneumonia and is 
associated with a high fatality rate. However, the pathogenesis, comparative
pathology and inflammatory cell response of rhesus macaques and common marmosets 
experimentally infected with MERS-CoV are unknown. We describe the
histopathological, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural findings from rhesus 
macaque and common marmoset animal models of MERS-CoV infection. The main
histopathological findings in the lungs of rhesus macaques and common marmosets
were varying degrees of pulmonary lesions, including pneumonia, pulmonary oedema,
haemorrhage, degeneration and necrosis of the pneumocytes and bronchial
epithelial cells, and inflammatory cell infiltration. The characteristic
inflammatory cells in the lungs of rhesus macaques and common marmosets were
eosinophils and neutrophils, respectively. Based on these observations, the lungs
of rhesus macaques and common marmosets appeared to develop chronic and acute
pneumonia, respectively. MERS-CoV antigens and viral RNA were identified in type 
I and II pneumocytes, alveolar macrophages and bronchial epithelial cells, and
ultrastructural observations showed that viral protein was found in type II
pneumocytes and inflammatory cells in both species. Correspondingly, the entry
receptor DDP4 was found in type I and II pneumocytes, bronchial epithelial cells,
and alveolar macrophages. The rhesus macaque and common marmoset animal models of
MERS-CoV can be used as a tool to mimic the oncome of MERS-CoV infections in
humans. These models can help to provide a better understanding of the pathogenic
process of this virus and to develop effective medications and prophylactic
treatments.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0172093 
PMCID: PMC5325479
PMID: 28234937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

