

911. PLoS One. 2017 Feb 24;12(2):e0172093. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0172093.
eCollection 2017.

Comparative pathology of rhesus macaque and common marmoset animal models with
Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus.

Yu P(1)(2), Xu Y(1)(2), Deng W(1)(2), Bao L(1)(2), Huang L(1)(2), Xu Y(1)(2), Yao
Y(1)(2), Qin C(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Laboratory Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences
(CAMS) and Comparative Medicine Center, Peking Union Medical College (PUMC), Key 
Laboratory of Human Disease Comparative Medicine, Ministry of Health, Beijing Key
Laboratory for Animal Models of Emerging and Remerging Infectious Diseases,
Beijing, China.
(2)Institute of Laboratory Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 5
Panjiayuan Nanli, Chaoyang District, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), which is caused by a newly discovered
coronavirus (CoV), has recently emerged. It causes severe viral pneumonia and is 
associated with a high fatality rate. However, the pathogenesis, comparative
pathology and inflammatory cell response of rhesus macaques and common marmosets 
experimentally infected with MERS-CoV are unknown. We describe the
histopathological, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural findings from rhesus 
macaque and common marmoset animal models of MERS-CoV infection. The main
histopathological findings in the lungs of rhesus macaques and common marmosets
were varying degrees of pulmonary lesions, including pneumonia, pulmonary oedema,
haemorrhage, degeneration and necrosis of the pneumocytes and bronchial
epithelial cells, and inflammatory cell infiltration. The characteristic
inflammatory cells in the lungs of rhesus macaques and common marmosets were
eosinophils and neutrophils, respectively. Based on these observations, the lungs
of rhesus macaques and common marmosets appeared to develop chronic and acute
pneumonia, respectively. MERS-CoV antigens and viral RNA were identified in type 
I and II pneumocytes, alveolar macrophages and bronchial epithelial cells, and
ultrastructural observations showed that viral protein was found in type II
pneumocytes and inflammatory cells in both species. Correspondingly, the entry
receptor DDP4 was found in type I and II pneumocytes, bronchial epithelial cells,
and alveolar macrophages. The rhesus macaque and common marmoset animal models of
MERS-CoV can be used as a tool to mimic the oncome of MERS-CoV infections in
humans. These models can help to provide a better understanding of the pathogenic
process of this virus and to develop effective medications and prophylactic
treatments.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0172093 
PMCID: PMC5325479
PMID: 28234937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Front Aging Neurosci. 2017 Feb 21;9:32. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2017.00032.
eCollection 2017.

Corrigendum: Evidence of Tau Hyperphosphorylation and Dystrophic Microglia in the
Common Marmoset.

Rodriguez-Callejas JD(1), Fuchs E(2), Perez-Cruz C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroplasticity and Neurodegeneration, Department of
Pharmacology, Center for Research and Advanced Studies (CINVESTAV) Mexico City,
Mexico.
(2)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center - Leibniz Institute
for Primate Research GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Erratum for
    Front Aging Neurosci. 2016 Dec 22;8:315.

[This corrects the article on p. 315 in vol. 8, PMID: 28066237.].

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2017.00032 
PMCID: PMC5319377
PMID: 28232798 

