

915. Biol Reprod. 2017 Feb 1;96(2):277-287. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.116.146514.

Assisted reproductive technologies in the common marmoset: an integral species
for developing nonhuman primate models of human diseases.

Kropp J(1), Di Marzo A(1), Golos T(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(2)Department of Comparative Biosciences, School of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, School of Medicine and Public Health,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

Generation of nonhuman primate models of human disease conditions will foster the
development of novel therapeutic strategies. Callithrix jacchus, or the common
marmoset, is a New World, nonhuman primate species that exhibits great
reproductive fitness in captivity with an ovarian cycle that can be easily
managed with pharmacological agents. This characteristic, among others, provides 
an opportunity to employ assisted reproductive technologies to generate embryos
that can be genetically manipulated to create a variety of nonhuman primate
models for human disease. Here, we review methods to synchronize the marmoset
ovarian cycle and stimulate oocyte donors, and compare various protocols for in
vitro production of embryos. In light of advances in genomic editing, recent
approaches used to generate transgenic or genetically edited embryos in the
marmoset and also future perspective are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.116.146514 
PMCID: PMC5967451
PMID: 28203717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 May;45(5):457-467. doi: 10.1124/dmd.116.074898. Epub 2017
Feb 14.

Marmoset Cytochrome P450 3A4 Ortholog Expressed in Liver and Small-Intestine
Tissues Efficiently Metabolizes Midazolam, Alprazolam, Nifedipine, and
Testosterone.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Nakanishi K(1), Ishii S(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1),
Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., K.N., S.I., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.), and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., K.N., S.I., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.), and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), small New World primates, are increasingly
attracting attention as potentially useful animal models for drug development.
However, characterization of cytochrome P450 (P450) 3A enzymes involved in the
metabolism of a wide variety of drugs has not investigated in marmosets. In this 
study, sequence homology, tissue distribution, and enzymatic properties of
marmoset P450 3A4 ortholog, 3A5 ortholog, and 3A90 were investigated. Marmoset
P450 3A forms exhibited high amino acid sequence identities (88-90%) to the human
and cynomolgus monkey P450 3A orthologs and evolutionary closeness to human and
cynomolgus monkey P450 3A orthologs compared with other P450 3A enzymes. Among
the five marmoset tissues examined, P450 3A4 ortholog mRNA was abundant in livers
and small intestines where P450 3A4 ortholog proteins were immunologically
detected. Three marmoset P450 3A proteins heterologously expressed in Escherichia
coli membranes catalyzed midazolam 1'- and 4-hydroxylation, alprazolam
4-hydroxylation, nifedipine oxidation, and testosterone 6β-hydroxylation, similar
to cynomolgus monkey and human P450 3A enzymes. Among the marmoset P450 3A
enzymes, P450 3A4 ortholog effectively catalyzed midazolam 1'-hydroxylation,
comparable to microsomes from marmoset livers and small intestines. Correlation
analyses with 23 individual marmoset liver microsomes suggested contributions of 
P450 3A enzymes to 1'-hydroxylation of both midazolam (human P450 3A probe) and
bufuralol (human P450 2D6 probe), similar to cynomolgus monkey P450 3A enzymes.
These results indicated that marmoset P450 3A forms had functional
characteristics roughly similar to cynomolgus monkeys and humans in terms of
tissue expression patterns and catalytic activities, suggesting marmosets as
suitable animal models for P450 3A-dependent drug metabolism.

Copyright © 2017 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.116.074898 
PMID: 28196829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

