

916. Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 May;45(5):457-467. doi: 10.1124/dmd.116.074898. Epub 2017
Feb 14.

Marmoset Cytochrome P450 3A4 Ortholog Expressed in Liver and Small-Intestine
Tissues Efficiently Metabolizes Midazolam, Alprazolam, Nifedipine, and
Testosterone.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Nakanishi K(1), Ishii S(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1),
Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., K.N., S.I., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.), and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., K.N., S.I., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.), and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), small New World primates, are increasingly
attracting attention as potentially useful animal models for drug development.
However, characterization of cytochrome P450 (P450) 3A enzymes involved in the
metabolism of a wide variety of drugs has not investigated in marmosets. In this 
study, sequence homology, tissue distribution, and enzymatic properties of
marmoset P450 3A4 ortholog, 3A5 ortholog, and 3A90 were investigated. Marmoset
P450 3A forms exhibited high amino acid sequence identities (88-90%) to the human
and cynomolgus monkey P450 3A orthologs and evolutionary closeness to human and
cynomolgus monkey P450 3A orthologs compared with other P450 3A enzymes. Among
the five marmoset tissues examined, P450 3A4 ortholog mRNA was abundant in livers
and small intestines where P450 3A4 ortholog proteins were immunologically
detected. Three marmoset P450 3A proteins heterologously expressed in Escherichia
coli membranes catalyzed midazolam 1'- and 4-hydroxylation, alprazolam
4-hydroxylation, nifedipine oxidation, and testosterone 6β-hydroxylation, similar
to cynomolgus monkey and human P450 3A enzymes. Among the marmoset P450 3A
enzymes, P450 3A4 ortholog effectively catalyzed midazolam 1'-hydroxylation,
comparable to microsomes from marmoset livers and small intestines. Correlation
analyses with 23 individual marmoset liver microsomes suggested contributions of 
P450 3A enzymes to 1'-hydroxylation of both midazolam (human P450 3A probe) and
bufuralol (human P450 2D6 probe), similar to cynomolgus monkey P450 3A enzymes.
These results indicated that marmoset P450 3A forms had functional
characteristics roughly similar to cynomolgus monkeys and humans in terms of
tissue expression patterns and catalytic activities, suggesting marmosets as
suitable animal models for P450 3A-dependent drug metabolism.

Copyright © 2017 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.116.074898 
PMID: 28196829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Pharm Res. 2017 Apr;34(4):874-886. doi: 10.1007/s11095-017-2116-4. Epub 2017 Feb 
13.

Evaluation of the Utility of Chimeric Mice with Humanized Livers for the
Characterization and Profiling of the Metabolites of a Selective Inhibitor
(YM543) of the Sodium-Glucose Cotransporter 2.

Nakada N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Analysis & Pharmacokinetics Research Laboratories, Drug Discovery Research,
Astellas Pharma Inc., Miyukigaoka 21, Tsukuba-shi, Ibaraki, 305-8585, Japan.
naoyuki.nakada@astellas.com.

PURPOSE: YM543 is a novel selective inhibitor of the sodium-glucose cotransporter
2. The objectives of the current study were to evaluate the utility of mice with 
humanized livers to predict human drug metabolites using YM543 as a case example.
METHODS: Metabolites of YM543 generated in humans and experimental animals
including chimeric mice with humanized liver, PXB mice, were analyzed via liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry, liquid chromatography-radiometric detector or
nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer.
RESULTS: After oral administration of YM543, metabolites M1-M5 were detected in
human plasma and urine. M2-M4 were detected in at least one species while M1 was 
not generated by experimental animals or in vitro systems. In the metabolite
profiling in PXB mice, M1 was detected in both plasma and urine samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Metabolite profile of YM543 in PXB mice and humans was closely
resemble. and the human specific metabolite was detected in the model mice. The
human specific metabolite, M1, was difficult to know in advance to clinical
study. The ability to predict the human metabolite profile including presence of 
human specific metabolites using PXB mice will likely facilitate development of
new drug candidates for human use.

DOI: 10.1007/s11095-017-2116-4 
PMID: 28194636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

