

933. PLoS One. 2017 Jan 13;12(1):e0170240. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170240.
eCollection 2017.

Metabolic Dysregulation in Hepacivirus Infection of Common Marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus).

Manickam C(1), Wachtman L(2), Martinot AJ(1), Giavedoni LD(3), Reeves RK(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Virology and Vaccine Research, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(2)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough
Campus, Southborough, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(3)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas, United States of America.

Chronic hepatitis C has been associated with metabolic syndrome that includes
insulin resistance, hepatic steatosis and obesity. These metabolic aberrations
are risk factors for disease severity and treatment outcome in infected patients.
Experimental infection of marmosets with GBV-B serves as a tangible, small animal
model for human HCV infection, and while virology and pathology are well
described, a full investigation of clinical disease and the metabolic milieu is
lacking. In this study six marmosets were infected intravenously with GBV-B and
changes in hematologic, serum biochemical and plasma metabolic measures were
investigated over the duration of infection. Infected animals exhibited signs of 
lymphocytopenia, but platelet and RBC counts were generally stable or even
increased. Although most animals showed a transient decline in blood glucose,
infection resulted in several fold increases in plasma insulin, glucagon and
glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1). All infected animals experienced transient
weight loss within the first 28 days of infection, but also became
hypertriglyceridemic and had up to 10-fold increases in adipocytokines such as
resistin and plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1). In liver, moderate to
severe cytoplasmic changes associated with steatotic changes was observed
microscopically at 168 days post infection. Collectively, these results suggest
that GBV-B infection is accompanied by hematologic, biochemical and metabolic
abnormalities that could lead to obesity, diabetes, thrombosis and
atherosclerosis, even after virus has been cleared. Our findings mirror those
found in HCV patients, suggesting that metabolic syndrome could be conserved
among hepaciviruses, and both mechanistic and interventional studies for treating
HCV-induced metabolic complications could be evaluated in this animal model.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170240 
PMCID: PMC5234844
PMID: 28085952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


934. Front Aging Neurosci. 2016 Dec 22;8:315. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2016.00315.
eCollection 2016.

Evidence of Tau Hyperphosphorylation and Dystrophic Microglia in the Common
Marmoset.

Rodriguez-Callejas JD(1), Fuchs E(2), Perez-Cruz C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroplasticity and Neurodegeneration, Department of
Pharmacology, Center for Research and Advanced Studies (CINVESTAV) Mexico City,
Mexico.
(2)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center - Leibniz Institute
for Primate Research, Göttingen Germany.

Erratum in
    Front Aging Neurosci. 2017 Feb 21;9:32.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have recently gained popularity in
biomedical research as models of aging research. Basically, they confer
advantages from other non-human primates due to their shorter lifespan with onset
of appearance of aging at 8 years. Old marmosets present some markers linked to
neurodegeneration in the brain such as amyloid beta (Aβ)1-42 and Aβ1-40. However,
there are no studies exploring other cellular markers associated with
neurodegenerative diseases in this non-human primate. Using immunohistochemistry,
we analyzed brains of male adolescent, adult, old, and aged marmosets. We
observed accumulation of Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 in the cortex of aged subjects. Tau
hyperphosphorylation was already detected in the brain of adolescent animals and 
increased with aging in a more fibrillary form. Microglia activation was also
observed in the aging process, while a dystrophic phenotype accumulates in aged
subjects. Interestingly, dystrophic microglia contained hyperphosphorylated tau, 
but active microglia did not. These results support previous findings regarding
microglia dysfunctionality in aging and neurodegenerative diseases as Alzheimer's
disease. Further studies should explore the functional consequences of these
findings to position this non-human primate as animal model of aging and
neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2016.00315 
PMCID: PMC5177639
PMID: 28066237 

