

936. Sci China Life Sci. 2017 Jan;60(1):66-71. doi: 10.1007/s11427-016-0286-7. Epub
2017 Jan 5.

Chaetocin reactivates the lytic replication of Epstein-Barr virus from latency
via reactive oxygen species.

Zhang S(1), Yin J(1), Zhong J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Microbial Engineering, School of Life Sciences,
Fudan University, Shanghai, 200438, China.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Microbial Engineering, School of Life Sciences,
Fudan University, Shanghai, 200438, China. jzhong@fudan.edu.cn.

Oxidative stress, regarded as a negative effect of free radicals in vivo, takes
place when organisms suffer from harmful stimuli. Some viruses can induce the
release of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in infected cells, which may be closely 
related with their pathogenicity. In this report, chaetocin, a fungal metabolite 
reported to have antimicrobial and cytostatic activity, was studied for its
effect on the activation of latent Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in B95-8 cells. We
found that chaetocin remarkably up-regulated EBV lytic transcription and DNA
replication at a low concentration (50 nmol L-1). The activation of latent EBV
was accompanied by an increased cellular ROS level. N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), an
ROS inhibitor, suppressed chaetocin-induced EBV activation. Chaetocin had little 
effect on histone H3K9 methylation, while NAC also significantly reduced H3K9
methylation. These results suggested that chaetocin reactivates latent EBV
primarily via ROS pathways.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-016-0286-7 
PMID: 28063010  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2017 May 15;246:331-336. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2017.01.009.
Epub 2017 Jan 4.

Transcriptional regulation of follicle-stimulating hormone β-subunit in marmoset 
by an alternate distal promoter.

Kutteyil SS(1), Pathak BR(2), Mahale SD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Structural Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji
Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.
(2)Division of Structural Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji
Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India. Electronic address: pathakb@nirrh.res.in.
(3)Division of Structural Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji
Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India. Electronic address: smitamahale@hotmail.com.

Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is essential for mammalian folliculogenesis
and spermatogenesis. Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate 
which exhibits an unusual FSH profile across the ovarian cycle with a
mid-follicular FSH peak that is not observed in Catarrhini primates like humans. 
Since transcription of FSH β-subunit gene (FSHβ) is a rate-limiting step in the
production of mature FSH, this study aimed to investigate the regulation of
marmoset FSHβ gene expression in comparison to human. In silico analysis of the
FSHβ promoter sequences identified a TATA box element upstream of the
conventional TATA box element in marmoset but not in human sequence. FSHβ mRNA
transcript longer than the conventional transcript was detected in marmoset
pituitary implying presence of a distal transcription start site. In luciferase
reporter assays, the marmoset putative distal promoter had higher activity than
the corresponding human region even in absence of the conventional proximal
promoter. Indeed higher affinity binding of TATA box-binding protein to the
putative distal TATA box element was obtained in electrophoretic mobility shift
assay. This suggests existence of a differential regulation of FSHβ transcription
in marmoset compared to humans.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2017.01.009 
PMID: 28062307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

