

937. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2017 May 15;246:331-336. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2017.01.009.
Epub 2017 Jan 4.

Transcriptional regulation of follicle-stimulating hormone β-subunit in marmoset 
by an alternate distal promoter.

Kutteyil SS(1), Pathak BR(2), Mahale SD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Structural Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji
Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.
(2)Division of Structural Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji
Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India. Electronic address: pathakb@nirrh.res.in.
(3)Division of Structural Biology, National Institute for Research in
Reproductive Health (Indian Council of Medical Research), Jehangir Merwanji
Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India. Electronic address: smitamahale@hotmail.com.

Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is essential for mammalian folliculogenesis
and spermatogenesis. Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate 
which exhibits an unusual FSH profile across the ovarian cycle with a
mid-follicular FSH peak that is not observed in Catarrhini primates like humans. 
Since transcription of FSH β-subunit gene (FSHβ) is a rate-limiting step in the
production of mature FSH, this study aimed to investigate the regulation of
marmoset FSHβ gene expression in comparison to human. In silico analysis of the
FSHβ promoter sequences identified a TATA box element upstream of the
conventional TATA box element in marmoset but not in human sequence. FSHβ mRNA
transcript longer than the conventional transcript was detected in marmoset
pituitary implying presence of a distal transcription start site. In luciferase
reporter assays, the marmoset putative distal promoter had higher activity than
the corresponding human region even in absence of the conventional proximal
promoter. Indeed higher affinity binding of TATA box-binding protein to the
putative distal TATA box element was obtained in electrophoretic mobility shift
assay. This suggests existence of a differential regulation of FSHβ transcription
in marmoset compared to humans.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2017.01.009 
PMID: 28062307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. NMR Biomed. 2017 Feb;30(2). doi: 10.1002/nbm.3686. Epub 2016 Dec 28.

Neurometabolic profiles of the substantia nigra and striatum of MPTP-intoxicated 
common marmosets: An in vivo proton MRS study at 9.4 T.

Heo H(1), Ahn JB(2)(3), Lee HH(1), Kwon E(2), Yun JW(2), Kim H(1)(2)(4)(5), Kang 
BC(2)(3)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, South
Korea.
(2)Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Graduate School of Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College
of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South
Korea.
(5)Institute of Radiation Medicine, Seoul National University Medical Research
Center, Seoul, South Korea.
(6)Designed Animal and Transplantation Research Institute, Institute of GreenBio 
Science and Technology, Seoul National University, Pyeongchang, South Korea.

Given the strong coupling between the substantia nigra (SN) and striatum (STR) in
the early stage of Parkinson's disease (PD), yet only a few studies reported to
date that have simultaneously investigated the neurochemistry of these two brain 
regions in vivo, we performed longitudinal metabolic profiling in the SN and STR 
of 1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-intoxicated common marmoset monkey 
models of PD (n = 10) by using proton MRS (1 H-MRS) at 9.4 T. T2 relaxometry was 
also performed in the SN by using MRI. Data were classified into control,
MPTP_2weeks, and MPTP_6-10 weeks groups according to the treatment duration. In
the SN, T2 of the MPTP_6-10 weeks group was lower than that of the control group 
(44.33 ± 1.75 versus 47.21 ± 2.47 ms, p < 0.05). The N-acetylaspartate to total
creatine ratio (NAA/tCr) and γ-aminobutyric acid to tCr ratio (GABA/tCr) of the
MPTP_6-10 weeks group were lower than those of the control group (0.41 ± 0.04
versus 0.54 ± 0.08 (p < 0.01) and 0.19 ± 0.03 versus 0.30 ± 0.09 (p < 0.05),
respectively). The glutathione to tCr ratio (GSH/tCr) was correlated with T2 for 
the MPTP_6-10 weeks group (r = 0.83, p = 0.04). In the STR, however, GABA/tCr of 
the MPTP_6-10 weeks group was higher than that of the control group (0.25 ± 0.10 
versus 0.16 ± 0.05, p < 0.05). These findings may be an in vivo depiction of the 
altered basal ganglion circuit in PD brain resulting from the degeneration of
nigral dopaminergic neurons and disruption of nigrostriatal dopaminergic
projections. Given the important role of non-human primates in translational
studies, our findings provide better understanding of the complicated evolution
of PD.

Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/nbm.3686 
PMID: 28028868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

