

94. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2021 Sep 22;85(10):2113-2120. doi:
10.1093/bbb/zbab141.

Molecular cloning and characterization of common marmoset SULT1C subfamily
members that catalyze the sulfation of thyroid hormones.

Kurogi K(1), Manabe Y(1), Liu MC(2), Suiko M(1), Sakakibara Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Applied Biosciences, University of Miyazaki,
Miyazaki, Japan.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences,
The University of Toledo, Toledo, OH, USA.

Cytosolic sulfotransferase SULT1C subfamily is one of the most flexible gene
subfamilies during mammalian evolution. The physiological functions of SULT1C
enzymes still remain to be fully understood. In this study, common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a promising primate animal model, was used to investigate
the functional relevance of the SULT1C subfamily. Gene database search revealed 3
intact SULT1C genes and a pseudogene in its genome. These 4 genes were named
SULT1C1, SULT1C2, SULT1C3P, and SULT1C5, according to the sequence homology and
gene location. Since SULT1C5 is the orthologous gene for human SULT1C2P, we
propose, here, to revisit the designation of human SULT1C2P to SULT1C5P. Purified
recombinant SULT1C enzymes showed sulfating activities toward a variety of
xenobiotic compounds and thyroid hormones. Kinetic analysis revealed high
catalytic activities of SULT1C1 and SULT1C5 for 3,3'-T2. It appears therefore
that SULT1C isoforms may play a role in the thyroid hormone metabolism in common 
marmoset.

Â© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japan
Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry.

DOI: 10.1093/bbb/zbab141 
PMCID: PMC8458394 [Available on 2022-08-09]
PMID: 34370005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Genes (Basel). 2021 Jul 16;12(7). pii: 1082. doi: 10.3390/genes12071082.

Dynamic Spatiotemporal Expression Changes in Connexins of the Developing
Primate's Cochlea.

Hosoya M(1), Fujioka M(1), Murayama AY(2)(3), Ogawa K(1), Okano H(2)(3), Ozawa
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi 
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Wako 351-0198, Japan.

Connexins are gap junction components that are essential for acquiring normal
hearing ability. Up to 50% of congenital, autosomal-recessive, non-syndromic
deafness can be attributed to variants in GJB2, the gene that encodes connexin
26. Gene therapies modifying the expression of connexins are a feasible treatment
option for some patients with genetic hearing losses. However, the expression
patterns of these proteins in the human fetus are not fully understood due to
ethical concerns. Recently, the common marmoset was used as a primate animal
model for the human fetus. In this study, we examined the expression patterns of 
connexin 26 and connexin 30 in the developing cochlea of this primate.
Primate-specific spatiotemporal expression changes were revealed, which suggest
the existence of primate-specific control of connexin expression patterns and
specific functions of these gap junction proteins. Moreover, our results indicate
that treatments for connexin-related hearing loss established in rodent models
may not be appropriate for human patients, underscoring the importance of testing
these treatments in primate models before applying them in human clinical trials.

DOI: 10.3390/genes12071082 
PMCID: PMC8307058
PMID: 34356098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

