

940. J Comp Neurol. 2019 Jan 1;527(1):236-258. doi: 10.1002/cne.24157. Epub 2017 Feb
13.

Survey of retinal ganglion cell morphology in marmoset.

Masri RA(1), Percival KA(1), Koizumi A(2), Martin PR(1)(3)(4), Grünert
U(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute and Department of Clinical Ophthalmology, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(2)National Institutes of Natural Sciences, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(4)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.

In primate retina, the midget, parasol, and small bistratified cell populations
form the large majority of ganglion cells. In addition, there is a variety of
low-density wide-field ganglion cell types that are less well characterized. Here
we studied retinal ganglion cells in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
using particle-mediated gene transfer. Ganglion cells were transfected with an
expression plasmid for the postsynaptic density 95-green fluorescent protein. The
retinas were processed with established immunohistochemical markers for bipolar
and/or amacrine cells to determine ganglion cell dendritic stratification. In
total over 500 ganglion cells were classified based on their dendritic field
size, morphology, and stratification in the inner plexiform layer. Over 17 types 
were distinguished, including midget, parasol, broad thorny, small bistratified, 
large bistratified, recursive bistratified, recursive monostratified, narrow
thorny, smooth monostratified, large sparse, giant sparse (melanopsin) ganglion
cells, and a group that may contain several as yet uncharacterized types.
Assuming each characterized type forms a hexagonal mosaic, the midget and parasol
cells account for over 80% of all ganglion cells in the central retina but only
∼50% of cells in the peripheral (>2 mm) retina. We conclude that the fovea is
dominated by midget and parasol cells, but outside the fovea the ganglion cell
diversity in marmoset is likely as great as that reported for nonprimate retinas.
Taken together, the ganglion cell types in marmoset retina resemble those
described previously in macaque retina with respect to morphology,
stratification, and change in proportion across the retina.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24157 
PMID: 27997691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Mol Neurobiol. 2017 Dec;54(10):8447-8457. doi: 10.1007/s12035-016-0329-x. Epub
2016 Dec 12.

Dynamic Regulation of Hypothalamic DMXL2, KISS1, and RFRP Expression During
Postnatal Development in Non-Human Primates.

Wahab F(1), Drummer C(2), Schlatt S(3), Behr R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany. fazalendo@gmail.com.
(2)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Reproduction and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149, Münster,
Germany.
(4)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany. rbehr@dpz.eu.

The neurobiological mechanism of puberty onset in primates is currently only
partly understood. A recent study reported an important role of Dmx-like 2
(DMXL2), a gene encoding rabconnectin-3α vesicular protein, in human subjects
with mental retardation and neuroendocrine impairment of reproduction. To further
characterize the potential role of DMXL2 in the regulation of reproduction, we
analyzed the expression of DMXL2 in hypothalami of newborn, infantile, juvenile, 
pubertal, and postpubertal female and male common marmoset monkeys. Additionally,
as the relative hypothalamic levels of gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH)
transcript during postnatal development are unknown in primates, we also
quantified messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of RFRP, a gene encoding GnIH. Moreover,
the transcript levels of kisspeptin, a well-known regulator of the hypothalamic
neurohormonal axis controlling reproduction, were also checked. Transcript and
protein levels of DMXL2 and Kiss1 transcript levels increase from the newborn to 
the infantile and from the juvenile (prepubertal) to the pubertal and the
postpubertal period. We also noted a clear upsurge in RFRP transcript levels in
the prepubertal period. In conclusion, the hypothalamic expressions of Kiss1 and 
DMXL2 mRNA increase during infantile, pubertal, and adult stages compared to
newborn and juvenile stages in common marmoset monkeys. In contrast, the
expression of RFRP mRNA upsurges in juvenile monkeys. Further mechanistic studies
are needed to characterize the potential inhibitory role of the GnIH-GPR147
signaling in the prepubertal period and the role of DMXL2 in the molecular
cascade regulating the neuroendocrine reproductive axis in primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-016-0329-x 
PMCID: PMC5684250
PMID: 27957681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

