

941. Mol Neurobiol. 2017 Dec;54(10):8447-8457. doi: 10.1007/s12035-016-0329-x. Epub
2016 Dec 12.

Dynamic Regulation of Hypothalamic DMXL2, KISS1, and RFRP Expression During
Postnatal Development in Non-Human Primates.

Wahab F(1), Drummer C(2), Schlatt S(3), Behr R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany. fazalendo@gmail.com.
(2)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Reproduction and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149, Münster,
Germany.
(4)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany. rbehr@dpz.eu.

The neurobiological mechanism of puberty onset in primates is currently only
partly understood. A recent study reported an important role of Dmx-like 2
(DMXL2), a gene encoding rabconnectin-3α vesicular protein, in human subjects
with mental retardation and neuroendocrine impairment of reproduction. To further
characterize the potential role of DMXL2 in the regulation of reproduction, we
analyzed the expression of DMXL2 in hypothalami of newborn, infantile, juvenile, 
pubertal, and postpubertal female and male common marmoset monkeys. Additionally,
as the relative hypothalamic levels of gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH)
transcript during postnatal development are unknown in primates, we also
quantified messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of RFRP, a gene encoding GnIH. Moreover,
the transcript levels of kisspeptin, a well-known regulator of the hypothalamic
neurohormonal axis controlling reproduction, were also checked. Transcript and
protein levels of DMXL2 and Kiss1 transcript levels increase from the newborn to 
the infantile and from the juvenile (prepubertal) to the pubertal and the
postpubertal period. We also noted a clear upsurge in RFRP transcript levels in
the prepubertal period. In conclusion, the hypothalamic expressions of Kiss1 and 
DMXL2 mRNA increase during infantile, pubertal, and adult stages compared to
newborn and juvenile stages in common marmoset monkeys. In contrast, the
expression of RFRP mRNA upsurges in juvenile monkeys. Further mechanistic studies
are needed to characterize the potential inhibitory role of the GnIH-GPR147
signaling in the prepubertal period and the role of DMXL2 in the molecular
cascade regulating the neuroendocrine reproductive axis in primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-016-0329-x 
PMCID: PMC5684250
PMID: 27957681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Exp Gerontol. 2017 Aug;94:41-45. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2016.12.005. Epub 2016 Dec 
10.

An overview of nonhuman primates in aging research.

Mattison JA(1), Vaughan KL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging, NIH Animal
Center, 16701, Elmer School Road, Bldg 103, Dickerson, MD 20842, United States.
Electronic address: Julie.Mattison@nih.gov.
(2)Translational Gerontology Branch, National Institute on Aging, NIH Animal
Center, 16701, Elmer School Road, Bldg 103, Dickerson, MD 20842, United States;
SoBran, Inc., 4000, Blackburn Lane, Suite 100, Burtonsville, MD 20866, United
States. Electronic address: Kelli.Vaughan@nih.gov.

A graying human population and the rising costs of healthcare have fueled the
growing need for a sophisticated translational model of aging. Nonhuman primates 
(NHPs) experience aging processes similar to humans and, as a result, provide an 
excellent opportunity to study a closely related species. Rhesus monkeys share
>92% homology and are the most commonly studied NHP. However, their substantial
size, long lifespan, and the associated expense are prohibitive factors.
Marmosets are rapidly becoming the preferred NHP for biomedical testing due to
their small size, low zoonotic risk, reproductive efficiency, and relatively
low-cost. Both species experience age-related pathology similar to humans, such
as cancer, diabetes, arthritis, cardiovascular disease, and neurological decline.
As a result, their use in aging research is paving the way to improved human
health through a better understanding of the mechanisms of aging.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2016.12.005 
PMCID: PMC5466843
PMID: 27956088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

