

943. J Neurosci. 2016 Dec 7;36(49):12468-12484.

Selective Neuronal Activation by Cochlear Implant Stimulation in Auditory Cortex 
of Awake Primate.

Johnson LA(1), Della Santina CC(1)(2), Wang X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biomedical Engineering and.
(2)Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025.
(3)Departments of Biomedical Engineering and xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Comment in
    eNeuro. 2017 Jun 27;4(3):null.

Despite the success of cochlear implants (CIs) in human populations, most users
perform poorly in noisy environments and music and tonal language perception. How
CI devices engage the brain at the single neuron level has remained largely
unknown, in particular in the primate brain. By comparing neuronal responses with
acoustic and CI stimulation in marmoset monkeys unilaterally implanted with a CI 
electrode array, we discovered that CI stimulation was surprisingly ineffective
at activating many neurons in auditory cortex, particularly in the hemisphere
ipsilateral to the CI. Further analyses revealed that the CI-nonresponsive
neurons were narrowly tuned to frequency and sound level when probed with
acoustic stimuli; such neurons likely play a role in perceptual behaviors
requiring fine frequency and level discrimination, tasks that CI users find
especially challenging. These findings suggest potential deficits in central
auditory processing of CI stimulation and provide important insights into factors
responsible for poor CI user performance in a wide range of perceptual
tasks.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The cochlear implant (CI) is the most successful
neural prosthetic device to date and has restored hearing in hundreds of
thousands of deaf individuals worldwide. However, despite its huge successes, CI 
users still face many perceptual limitations, and the brain mechanisms involved
in hearing through CI devices remain poorly understood. By directly comparing
single-neuron responses to acoustic and CI stimulation in auditory cortex of
awake marmoset monkeys, we discovered that neurons unresponsive to CI stimulation
were sharply tuned to frequency and sound level. Our results point out a major
deficit in central auditory processing of CI stimulation and provide important
insights into mechanisms underlying the poor CI user performance in a wide range 
of perceptual tasks.

Copyright Â© 2016 the authors 0270-6474/16/3612468-17$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1699-16.2016 
PMCID: PMC5148231
PMID: 27927962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Behav Pharmacol. 2017 Jun;28(4):313-317. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000275.

Effects of the 5-HT1A receptor agonists buspirone and 8-OH-DPAT on pupil size in 
common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Urushino N, Natsutani I, Ogi Y, Ikeda K.

Author information: 
(1)aHigher Brain Function Research bBiomarker Group, Drug Development Research
Laboratories cDMPK Group I, Preclinical Research Laboratories, Drug Research
Division, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

As pupil size is affected by psychotropic drugs in all mammals, it has been used 
as a well-established clinical indicator for the preclinical and clinical
development of novel drugs. It has been reported that activation of the serotonin
(5-HT)1A receptor differently affects pupil response in rodents (mydriasis) and
humans (miosis). Thus, it is important to establish a quantitative system for
measuring pupil size using other species, such as nonhuman primates. Common
marmosets have recently attracted a great deal of attention as suitable
experimental animals in the psychoneurological field because of handling ease
compared with other nonhuman primates and the requirement for small amounts of
test drugs. In this study, we constructed a system for measuring changes in pupil
size using an infrared eye-tracking camera and evaluated the effects on pupil
size of the 5-HT1A receptor agonists buspirone, 8-OH-DPAT and buspirone active
metabolite 1-(2-pyrimidinyl) piperazine. Our results show that both buspirone and
8-OH-DPAT significantly decrease pupil size in a dose-dependent manner. The
5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 completely blocked both buspirone and
8-OH-DPAT-induced miosis, whereas 1-(2-pyrimidinyl) piperazine had no effect on
pupil size. These results suggest that measurement of pupil size may be a useful 
biomarker for predicting the pharmacodynamics of new 5-HT1A receptor agonists.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000275 
PMID: 27922541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

