

944. Behav Pharmacol. 2017 Jun;28(4):313-317. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000275.

Effects of the 5-HT1A receptor agonists buspirone and 8-OH-DPAT on pupil size in 
common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Urushino N, Natsutani I, Ogi Y, Ikeda K.

Author information: 
(1)aHigher Brain Function Research bBiomarker Group, Drug Development Research
Laboratories cDMPK Group I, Preclinical Research Laboratories, Drug Research
Division, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

As pupil size is affected by psychotropic drugs in all mammals, it has been used 
as a well-established clinical indicator for the preclinical and clinical
development of novel drugs. It has been reported that activation of the serotonin
(5-HT)1A receptor differently affects pupil response in rodents (mydriasis) and
humans (miosis). Thus, it is important to establish a quantitative system for
measuring pupil size using other species, such as nonhuman primates. Common
marmosets have recently attracted a great deal of attention as suitable
experimental animals in the psychoneurological field because of handling ease
compared with other nonhuman primates and the requirement for small amounts of
test drugs. In this study, we constructed a system for measuring changes in pupil
size using an infrared eye-tracking camera and evaluated the effects on pupil
size of the 5-HT1A receptor agonists buspirone, 8-OH-DPAT and buspirone active
metabolite 1-(2-pyrimidinyl) piperazine. Our results show that both buspirone and
8-OH-DPAT significantly decrease pupil size in a dose-dependent manner. The
5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 completely blocked both buspirone and
8-OH-DPAT-induced miosis, whereas 1-(2-pyrimidinyl) piperazine had no effect on
pupil size. These results suggest that measurement of pupil size may be a useful 
biomarker for predicting the pharmacodynamics of new 5-HT1A receptor agonists.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000275 
PMID: 27922541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Cryobiology. 2017 Feb;74:93-102. doi: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2016.11.009. Epub 2016
Dec 2.

Cryobiological parameters of multipotent stromal cells obtained from different
sources.

Lauterboeck L(1), Wolkers WF(2), Glasmacher B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. Electronic address: lauterboeck@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. Electronic address: wolkers@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(3)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. Electronic address: glasmacher@imp.uni-hannover.de.

Stem cells are important for regenerative medicine mainly due to their
multilineage differentiation capacity. However, the cells rapidly loose this
capability during culturing. Cryopreservation preserves the differentiation
potential of the cells, until they are needed. In this study, specific cell
properties of multipotent stromal cells (MSCs), from the common marmoset monkey
Callithrix jacchus MSCs derived from amnion (Am) and bone marrow (Bm) were
studied in order to predict optimal cooling rates for cryopreservation. Cell
volume behaviour in anisotonic media, hydraulic membrane permeability at supra as
well as subzero temperatures, and time point of intracellular ice formation (IIF)
were investigated by Coulter Counter and cryomicroscopy. Cryopreservation outcome
was studied using the predicted and experimentally determined cooling rate
followed by 24 h re-cultivation. Little differences in osmotically inactive
volume were found between amnion (0.27 × Vo) and bone marrow (0.28 × Vo) derived 
MSCs. The activation energy for water transport at suprazero temperature was
found to be similar for both cell types; 4.4 ± 0.2 and 5.0 ± 0.15 kcal mol-1 for 
amnion and bone marrow derived MSCs, respectively. At subzero temperatures in the
absence of dimethyl sulfoxide (Me2SO), the activation energy for water transport 
increased to 24.8 ± 3 kcal mol-1 and 27.4 ± 0.9 kcal mol-1 for Am and BmMSCs
respectively. In the presence of Me2SO, activation energies were found to be
11.6 ± 0.3 kcal mol-1 and 19.5 ± 0.5 kcal mol-1 respectively. Furthermore, Me2SO 
was found to decrease the incidence of intracellular ice formation. The predicted
optimal cooling rates of 11.6 ± 0.9 °C/min (AmMSCs) and 16.3 ± 0.5 °C/min
(BmMSCs) resulted in similar post-thaw viability values compared to the
experimentally determined optimal cooling profiles of 7.5 °C/min to -30 °C,
followed by 3 °C/min to -80 °C.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2016.11.009 
PMID: 27916562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

