

945. Cryobiology. 2017 Feb;74:93-102. doi: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2016.11.009. Epub 2016
Dec 2.

Cryobiological parameters of multipotent stromal cells obtained from different
sources.

Lauterboeck L(1), Wolkers WF(2), Glasmacher B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. Electronic address: lauterboeck@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. Electronic address: wolkers@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(3)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover, Hannover,
Germany. Electronic address: glasmacher@imp.uni-hannover.de.

Stem cells are important for regenerative medicine mainly due to their
multilineage differentiation capacity. However, the cells rapidly loose this
capability during culturing. Cryopreservation preserves the differentiation
potential of the cells, until they are needed. In this study, specific cell
properties of multipotent stromal cells (MSCs), from the common marmoset monkey
Callithrix jacchus MSCs derived from amnion (Am) and bone marrow (Bm) were
studied in order to predict optimal cooling rates for cryopreservation. Cell
volume behaviour in anisotonic media, hydraulic membrane permeability at supra as
well as subzero temperatures, and time point of intracellular ice formation (IIF)
were investigated by Coulter Counter and cryomicroscopy. Cryopreservation outcome
was studied using the predicted and experimentally determined cooling rate
followed by 24 h re-cultivation. Little differences in osmotically inactive
volume were found between amnion (0.27 × Vo) and bone marrow (0.28 × Vo) derived 
MSCs. The activation energy for water transport at suprazero temperature was
found to be similar for both cell types; 4.4 ± 0.2 and 5.0 ± 0.15 kcal mol-1 for 
amnion and bone marrow derived MSCs, respectively. At subzero temperatures in the
absence of dimethyl sulfoxide (Me2SO), the activation energy for water transport 
increased to 24.8 ± 3 kcal mol-1 and 27.4 ± 0.9 kcal mol-1 for Am and BmMSCs
respectively. In the presence of Me2SO, activation energies were found to be
11.6 ± 0.3 kcal mol-1 and 19.5 ± 0.5 kcal mol-1 respectively. Furthermore, Me2SO 
was found to decrease the incidence of intracellular ice formation. The predicted
optimal cooling rates of 11.6 ± 0.9 °C/min (AmMSCs) and 16.3 ± 0.5 °C/min
(BmMSCs) resulted in similar post-thaw viability values compared to the
experimentally determined optimal cooling profiles of 7.5 °C/min to -30 °C,
followed by 3 °C/min to -80 °C.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2016.11.009 
PMID: 27916562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. J Neurosci. 2016 Nov 30;36(48):12168-12179.

Distinct Neural Activities in Premotor Cortex during Natural Vocal Behaviors in a
New World Primate, the Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Roy S(1), Zhao L(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205
xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Although evidence from human studies has long indicated the crucial role of the
frontal cortex in speech production, it has remained uncertain whether the
frontal cortex in nonhuman primates plays a similar role in vocal communication. 
Previous studies of prefrontal and premotor cortices of macaque monkeys have
found neural signals associated with cue- and reward-conditioned vocal
production, but not with self-initiated or spontaneous vocalizations (Coudé et
al., 2011; Hage and Nieder, 2013), which casts doubt on the role of the frontal
cortex of the Old World monkeys in vocal communication. A recent study of
marmoset frontal cortex observed modulated neural activities associated with
self-initiated vocal production (Miller et al., 2015), but it did not delineate
whether these neural activities were specifically attributed to vocal production 
or if they may result from other nonvocal motor activity such as orofacial motor 
movement. In the present study, we attempted to resolve these issues and examined
single neuron activities in premotor cortex during natural vocal exchanges in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate. Neural
activation and suppression were observed both before and during self-initiated
vocal production. Furthermore, by comparing neural activities between
self-initiated vocal production and nonvocal orofacial motor movement, we
identified a subpopulation of neurons in marmoset premotor cortex that was
activated or suppressed by vocal production, but not by orofacial movement. These
findings provide clear evidence of the premotor cortex's involvement in
self-initiated vocal production in natural vocal behaviors of a New World
primate.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Human frontal cortex plays a crucial role in
speech production. However, it has remained unclear whether the frontal cortex of
nonhuman primates is involved in the production of self-initiated vocalizations
during natural vocal communication. Using a wireless multichannel neural
recording technique, we observed in the premotor cortex neural activation and
suppression both before and during self-initiated vocalizations when marmosets, a
highly vocal New World primate species, engaged in vocal exchanges with
conspecifics. A novel finding of the present study is the discovery of a
subpopulation of premotor cortex neurons that was activated by vocal production, 
but not by orofacial movement. These observations provide clear evidence of the
premotor cortex's involvement in vocal production in a New World primate species.

Copyright © 2016 the authors 0270-6474/16/3612168-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1646-16.2016 
PMCID: PMC5148218
PMID: 27903726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

