

946. J Neurosci. 2016 Nov 30;36(48):12168-12179.

Distinct Neural Activities in Premotor Cortex during Natural Vocal Behaviors in a
New World Primate, the Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Roy S(1), Zhao L(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205
xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Although evidence from human studies has long indicated the crucial role of the
frontal cortex in speech production, it has remained uncertain whether the
frontal cortex in nonhuman primates plays a similar role in vocal communication. 
Previous studies of prefrontal and premotor cortices of macaque monkeys have
found neural signals associated with cue- and reward-conditioned vocal
production, but not with self-initiated or spontaneous vocalizations (Coudé et
al., 2011; Hage and Nieder, 2013), which casts doubt on the role of the frontal
cortex of the Old World monkeys in vocal communication. A recent study of
marmoset frontal cortex observed modulated neural activities associated with
self-initiated vocal production (Miller et al., 2015), but it did not delineate
whether these neural activities were specifically attributed to vocal production 
or if they may result from other nonvocal motor activity such as orofacial motor 
movement. In the present study, we attempted to resolve these issues and examined
single neuron activities in premotor cortex during natural vocal exchanges in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate. Neural
activation and suppression were observed both before and during self-initiated
vocal production. Furthermore, by comparing neural activities between
self-initiated vocal production and nonvocal orofacial motor movement, we
identified a subpopulation of neurons in marmoset premotor cortex that was
activated or suppressed by vocal production, but not by orofacial movement. These
findings provide clear evidence of the premotor cortex's involvement in
self-initiated vocal production in natural vocal behaviors of a New World
primate.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Human frontal cortex plays a crucial role in
speech production. However, it has remained unclear whether the frontal cortex of
nonhuman primates is involved in the production of self-initiated vocalizations
during natural vocal communication. Using a wireless multichannel neural
recording technique, we observed in the premotor cortex neural activation and
suppression both before and during self-initiated vocalizations when marmosets, a
highly vocal New World primate species, engaged in vocal exchanges with
conspecifics. A novel finding of the present study is the discovery of a
subpopulation of premotor cortex neurons that was activated by vocal production, 
but not by orofacial movement. These observations provide clear evidence of the
premotor cortex's involvement in vocal production in a New World primate species.

Copyright © 2016 the authors 0270-6474/16/3612168-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1646-16.2016 
PMCID: PMC5148218
PMID: 27903726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Vet Med Sci. 2017 Feb 4;79(2):267-272. doi: 10.1292/jvms.16-0459. Epub 2016 Nov
26.

Cloning and expression of a novel catechol-O-methyltransferase in common
marmosets.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y, Inoue T, Sasaki E, Yamazaki H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.

Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) catalyzes the O-methylation of endogenous
catechol amines and estrogens and exogenous catechol-type of drugs. A Parkinson's
disease model of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has been widely used in
preclinical studies to evaluate inhibitory potential of new drug candidates on
marmoset COMT. Despite COMT inhibitors could potentiate the pharmacological
action of levodopa on Parkinson's disease in animal models, marmoset COMT cDNA
has not yet been identified and characterized. In this study, a cDNA highly
homologous to human COMT was cloned from marmoset livers. This cDNA encoded 268
amino acids containing a transmembrane region and critical amino acid residues
for catalytic function. The amino acid sequences of marmoset COMT shared high
sequence identity (90%) with human COMT. COMT mRNA was expressed in all five
tissues tested, including brain, lung, liver, kidney and small intestine, and was
more abundant in marmoset liver and kidney. Membrane-bound COMT was
immunochemically detected in livers and kidneys, whereas soluble COMT was
detected in livers, similar to humans. These results indicated that the molecular
characteristics of marmoset COMT were generally similar to the human ortholog.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.16-0459 
PMCID: PMC5326929
PMID: 27890888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

