

947. J Vet Med Sci. 2017 Feb 4;79(2):267-272. doi: 10.1292/jvms.16-0459. Epub 2016 Nov
26.

Cloning and expression of a novel catechol-O-methyltransferase in common
marmosets.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y, Inoue T, Sasaki E, Yamazaki H.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.

Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) catalyzes the O-methylation of endogenous
catechol amines and estrogens and exogenous catechol-type of drugs. A Parkinson's
disease model of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has been widely used in
preclinical studies to evaluate inhibitory potential of new drug candidates on
marmoset COMT. Despite COMT inhibitors could potentiate the pharmacological
action of levodopa on Parkinson's disease in animal models, marmoset COMT cDNA
has not yet been identified and characterized. In this study, a cDNA highly
homologous to human COMT was cloned from marmoset livers. This cDNA encoded 268
amino acids containing a transmembrane region and critical amino acid residues
for catalytic function. The amino acid sequences of marmoset COMT shared high
sequence identity (90%) with human COMT. COMT mRNA was expressed in all five
tissues tested, including brain, lung, liver, kidney and small intestine, and was
more abundant in marmoset liver and kidney. Membrane-bound COMT was
immunochemically detected in livers and kidneys, whereas soluble COMT was
detected in livers, similar to humans. These results indicated that the molecular
characteristics of marmoset COMT were generally similar to the human ortholog.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.16-0459 
PMCID: PMC5326929
PMID: 27890888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. J Immunol Methods. 2017 Feb;441:39-48. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2016.11.011. Epub 2016 
Nov 24.

Systematic evaluation of monoclonal antibodies and immunoassays for the detection
of Interferon-γ and Interleukin-2 in old and new world non-human primates.

Höglind A(1), Areström I(1), Ehrnfelt C(1), Masjedi K(1), Zuber B(2), Giavedoni
L(3), Ahlborg N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Mabtech, Box 1233, SE-131 28, Nacka Strand, Sweden.
(2)Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Departments of Virology and Immunology and Southwest National Primate Research
Center, Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX 78245-0549, USA.
(4)Mabtech, Box 1233, SE-131 28, Nacka Strand, Sweden; Department of Immunology, 
Stockholm University, SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address:
niklas@mabtech.com.

Non-human primates (NHP) provide important animal models for studies on immune
responses to infections and vaccines. When assessing cellular immunity in NHP,
cytokines are almost exclusively analyzed utilizing cross-reactive anti-human
antibodies. The functionality of antibodies has to be empirically established for
each assay/application as well as NHP species. A rational approach was employed
to identify monoclonal antibodies (mAb) cross-reactive with many NHP species.
Panels of new and established mAbs against human Interferon (IFN)-γ and
Interleukin (IL)-2 were assessed for reactivity with eukaryotically expressed
recombinant IFN-γ and IL-2, respectively, from Old (rhesus, cynomolgus and
pigtail macaques, African green monkey, sooty mangabey and baboon) and New World 
NHP (Ma's night monkey, squirrel monkey and common marmoset). Pan-reactive mAbs, 
recognizing cytokines from all NHP species, were further analyzed in capture
assays and flow cytometry with NHP peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC).
Pan-reactive mAb pairs for IFN-γ well as IL-2 were identified and used in ELISA
to measure IFN-γ and IL-2, respectively, in Old and New World NHP PBMC
supernatants. The same mAb pairs displayed high functionality in ELISpot and
FluoroSpot for the measurement of antigen-specific IFN-γ and IL-2 responses using
cynomolgus PBMC. Functionality of pan-reactive mAbs in flow cytometry was also
verified with cynomolgus PBMC. The development of well-defined immunoassays
functional with a panel of NHP species facilitates improved analyses of cellular 
immunity and enables inclusion in multiplex cytokine assays intended for a
variety of NHP.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2016.11.011 
PMCID: PMC5563966
PMID: 27889562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

