

96. Neuron. 2021 Aug 4;109(15):2370-2373. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2021.07.012.

If I do A, B will happen: Dissecting circuits detecting causal relations between 
actions and outcomes in marmoset prefrontal cortex.

Chafee MV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA;
Brain Sciences Center, VA Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN, USA. Electronic
address: chafe001@umn.edu.

Comment on
    Neuron. 2021 Aug 4;109(15):2485-2498.e5.

In this issue of Neuron, Duan et al. (2021) use pharmacological manipulation to
reveal opposing influences of anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortex of
marmosets on decisions that are based on action-outcome associations.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2021.07.012 
PMID: 34352212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Sci Rep. 2021 Aug 3;11(1):15683. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-95101-8.

Trade-offs between vocal accommodation and individual recognisability in common
marmoset vocalizations.

Zürcher Y(1), Willems EP(2), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
Zurich, Switzerland. yvonne.zuercher@uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
Zurich, Switzerland.

Recent studies find increasing evidence for vocal accommodation in nonhuman
primates, indicating that this form of vocal learning is more prevalent than
previously thought. Convergent vocal accommodation (i.e. becoming more similar to
partners) indicates social closeness. At the same time, however, becoming too
similar may compromise individual recognisability. This is especially problematic
if individual recognisability is an important part of the call function, like in 
long-distance contact calls. In contrast, in calls with a different function, the
trade-off between signalling social closeness and individual recognisability
might be less severe. We therefore hypothesized that the extent and consequences 
of accommodation depend on the function of a given call, and expected (1) more
accommodation in calls for which individual identity is less crucial and (2) that
individual identity is less compromised in calls that serve mainly to transmit
identity compared to calls where individual recognisability is less important. We
quantified vocal accommodation in three call types over the process of pair
formation in common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus, n = 20). These three
call types have different functions and vary with the degree to which they refer 
to individual identity of the caller. In accordance with our predictions, we
found that animals converged most in close contact calls (trill calls), but less 
in calls where individual identity is more essential (phee- and food calls). In
two out of three call types, the amount of accommodation was predicted by the
initial vocal distance. Moreover, accommodation led to a drop in statistical
individual recognisability in trill calls, but not in phee calls and food calls. 
Overall, our study shows that patterns of vocal accommodation vary between call
types with different functions, suggestive of trade-offs between signalling
social closeness and individual recognisability in marmoset vocalizations.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-95101-8 
PMCID: PMC8333328
PMID: 34344939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

