

963. Exp Anim. 2016 Nov 1;65(4):465-471. Epub 2016 Jun 29.

In situ hybridization study of CYP2D mRNA in the common marmoset brain.

Shimamoto Y(1), Niimi K, Kitamura H, Tsubakishita S, Takahashi E.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Animal Therapeutics, Department of Veterinary Science, Rakuno
Gakuen University, 582 Midorimachi, Bunkyodai, Ebetsu, Hokkaido 069-8501, Japan.

The common marmoset is a non-human primate that has increasingly employed in the 
biomedical research including the fields of neuroscience and behavioral studies. 
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D has been speculated to be involved in psycho-neurologic 
actions in the human brain. In the present study, to clarify the role of CYP2D in
the marmoset brain, we investigated the expression patterns of CYP2D mRNA in the 
brain using in situ hybridization (ISH). In addition, to identify the gene
location of CYP2D19, a well-studied CYP2D isoform in the common marmoset, a
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) study was performed. Consistent with
findings for the human brain, CYP2D mRNA was localized in the neuronal cells of
different brain regions; e.g., the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, substantia
nigra, and cerebellum. FISH analysis showed that the CYP2D19 gene was located on 
chromosome 1q, which is homologous to human chromosome 22 on which the CYP2D6
gene exists. These results suggest that CYP2D in the marmoset brain may play the 
same role as human CYP2D6 in terms of brain actions, and that the CYP2D19 gene is
conserved in a syntenic manner. Taken together, these findings suggest that the
common marmoset is a useful model for studying psychiatric disorders related to
CYP2D dysfunction in the brain.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.16-0045 
PMCID: PMC5111850
PMID: 27356856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2016;87(4):244-261. Epub 2016 Nov 2.

Pelage Variation and Distribution of the Black Lion Tamarin, Leontopithecus
chrysopygus.

Garbino GS(1), Rezende GC, Valladares-Padua C.

Author information: 
(1)Pós-graduação, Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas,
Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

The black lion tamarin, Leontopithecus chrysopygus, is endemic to the Atlantic
Forest of the interior of the state of São Paulo in Brazil. Since the discovery
of the species, authors have described variations in the pelage of L.
chrysopygus, but the nature of this variation has remained unknown. We examined
museum specimens and living animals to see if the pelage of L. chrysopygus varies
individually, geographically or ontogenetically. We reviewed all known locality
records of the species, and concluded that the pelage of L. chrysopygus varies
individually and ontogenetically, but not geographically. The extent of the
golden chromogenetic fields is larger in younger individuals, and the pelage
becomes darker after successive moults. We examined 2 juveniles that presented a 
pelage similar to adult L. caissara. Geographically, there is a clear break in
the phenotypes attributed to L. caissara and L. chrysopygus, precluding clinal
variation and corroborating the specific status of the former. The separation
between these 2 species is coincident with a tectonic fault known as the
'Guapiara lineament', and may have been caused by a recent activation of this
geological formation. We also suggest a historical contact zone between L.
chrysopygus and the marmoset Callithrix aurita in the upper Rio Tietê region.

© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000450998 
PMID: 27802443  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

