

969. Epigenetics. 2017 Jul 3;12(7):527-539. doi: 10.1080/15592294.2016.1248007. Epub
2016 Oct 27.

De novo methylation in male germ cells of the common marmoset monkey occurs
during postnatal development and is maintained in vitro.

Langenstroth-Röwer D(1), Gromoll J(1), Wistuba J(1), Tröndle I(1), Laurentino
S(1), Schlatt S(1), Neuhaus N(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology , Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 
Münster , Germany.

The timing of de novo DNA methylation in male germ cells during human testicular 
development is yet unsolved. Apart from that, the stability of established
imprinting patterns in vitro is controversially discussed. This study aimed at
determining the timing of DNA de novo methylation and at assessing the stability 
of the methylation status in vitro. We employed the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) as it is considered the best non-human primate model for human
testicular development. We selected neonatal, pre-pubertal, pubertal, and adult
animals (n = 3, each) and assessed germ cell global DNA methylation levels by
5-methyl cytosine staining, and Alu elements and gene-specific methylation (H19, 
LIT1, SNRPN, MEST, OCT4, MAGE-A4, and DDX-4) by pyrosequencing. De novo
methylation is progressively established during postnatal primate development and
continues until adulthood, a process that is different in most other species.
Importantly, once established, methylation patterns remained stable, as
demonstrated using in vitro cultures. Thus, the marmoset monkey is a unique model
for the study of postnatal DNA methylation mechanisms in germ cells and for the
identification of epimutations and their causes.

DOI: 10.1080/15592294.2016.1248007 
PMCID: PMC5687340
PMID: 27786608  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Sci Rep. 2016 Oct 27;6:35722. doi: 10.1038/srep35722.

Chronic multiscale imaging of neuronal activity in the awake common marmoset.

Yamada Y(1)(2)(3), Matsumoto Y(1)(2), Okahara N(2), Mikoshiba K(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Developmental Neurobiology, Brain Science Institute (BSI),
RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)Japan Science and Technology Agency, International Cooperative Research
Project and Solution-Oriented Research for Science and Technology, Calcium
Oscillation Project, Wako, Saitama, Japan.

We report a methodology to chronically record in vivo brain activity in the awake
common marmoset. Over a month, stable imaging revealed macroscopic sensory maps
in the somatosensory cortex and their underlying cellular activity with a high
signal-to-noise ratio in the awake but not anesthetized state. This methodology
is applicable to other brain regions, and will be useful for studying cortical
activity and plasticity in marmosets during learning, development, and in
neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/srep35722 
PMCID: PMC5082371
PMID: 27786241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

