

970. Sci Rep. 2016 Oct 27;6:35722. doi: 10.1038/srep35722.

Chronic multiscale imaging of neuronal activity in the awake common marmoset.

Yamada Y(1)(2)(3), Matsumoto Y(1)(2), Okahara N(2), Mikoshiba K(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Developmental Neurobiology, Brain Science Institute (BSI),
RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.
(3)Japan Science and Technology Agency, International Cooperative Research
Project and Solution-Oriented Research for Science and Technology, Calcium
Oscillation Project, Wako, Saitama, Japan.

We report a methodology to chronically record in vivo brain activity in the awake
common marmoset. Over a month, stable imaging revealed macroscopic sensory maps
in the somatosensory cortex and their underlying cellular activity with a high
signal-to-noise ratio in the awake but not anesthetized state. This methodology
is applicable to other brain regions, and will be useful for studying cortical
activity and plasticity in marmosets during learning, development, and in
neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/srep35722 
PMCID: PMC5082371
PMID: 27786241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):273-285. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22461. Epub 2016 Oct 26.

The marmoset as a model system for studying voluntary motor control.

Walker J(1), MacLean J(1)(2), Hatsopoulos NG(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois, 60637.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 60637.
(3)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois, 60637.

The common marmoset has recently gained interest as an animal model for systems
and behavioral neuroscience. This is due in part to the advent of transgenic
marmosets, which affords the possibility of combining genetic manipulations with 
physiological recording and behavioral monitoring to study neural systems. In
this review, they will argue that the marmoset provides a unique opportunity to
study the neural basis of voluntary motor control from an integrative
perspective. First, as an intermediate animal model, the marmoset represents an
important bridge in motor system function between other primates, including
humans, and rodents. Second, due to the marmoset's small brain size and
lissencephalic cortex, novel electrophysiological and optical recording
technologies will allow an integrative study of cortical function at multiple
spatial scales beyond that afforded by other non-human primate models. Finally,
as a primate expressing an ancestral state of corticospinal organization, the
marmoset offers the possibility of understanding the integrative function of
cortical and spinal interneuron circuitry in isolation of more recent
corticomotoneuronal elaborations. If the potential of the marmoset as a model
species is to be realized, they will need to learn to work with their natural
behavioral repertoire. They have concluded by considering practical aspects of
studying motor systems with marmosets. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop
Neurobiol 77: 273-285, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22461 
PMID: 27739220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

