

971. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):273-285. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22461. Epub 2016 Oct 26.

The marmoset as a model system for studying voluntary motor control.

Walker J(1), MacLean J(1)(2), Hatsopoulos NG(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois, 60637.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 60637.
(3)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois, 60637.

The common marmoset has recently gained interest as an animal model for systems
and behavioral neuroscience. This is due in part to the advent of transgenic
marmosets, which affords the possibility of combining genetic manipulations with 
physiological recording and behavioral monitoring to study neural systems. In
this review, they will argue that the marmoset provides a unique opportunity to
study the neural basis of voluntary motor control from an integrative
perspective. First, as an intermediate animal model, the marmoset represents an
important bridge in motor system function between other primates, including
humans, and rodents. Second, due to the marmoset's small brain size and
lissencephalic cortex, novel electrophysiological and optical recording
technologies will allow an integrative study of cortical function at multiple
spatial scales beyond that afforded by other non-human primate models. Finally,
as a primate expressing an ancestral state of corticospinal organization, the
marmoset offers the possibility of understanding the integrative function of
cortical and spinal interneuron circuitry in isolation of more recent
corticomotoneuronal elaborations. If the potential of the marmoset as a model
species is to be realized, they will need to learn to work with their natural
behavioral repertoire. They have concluded by considering practical aspects of
studying motor systems with marmosets. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop
Neurobiol 77: 273-285, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22461 
PMID: 27739220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):286-299. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22464. Epub 2016 Oct 26.

Marmoset vocal communication: Behavior and neurobiology.

Eliades SJ(1), Miller CT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology- Head and Neck Surgery, University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(2)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, University of California San Diego, 
San Diego, California.

There has been recent increasing interest in the use of marmosets, a New World
primate species, as a model in biomedical research. One of the principal
advantages of marmosets as a research model is their rich vocal repertoire and
communicative vocal behaviors displayed both in the wild and in captivity.
Studies of this species' vocal communication system have the potential to reveal 
the evolutionary underpinnings of human speech, and therefore are of interest to 
the neuroscience and biology research communities. Here a recent research into
the behavioral and neurobiological basis of marmoset vocal communication was
reviewed and they argued for their broader value as a neuroscientific model. They
discuss potential avenues for future research including developmental
neurobiology and the application of modern molecular tools to the study of
primate communication. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77:
286-299, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22464 
PMID: 27739195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

