

972. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):286-299. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22464. Epub 2016 Oct 26.

Marmoset vocal communication: Behavior and neurobiology.

Eliades SJ(1), Miller CT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology- Head and Neck Surgery, University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(2)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, University of California San Diego, 
San Diego, California.

There has been recent increasing interest in the use of marmosets, a New World
primate species, as a model in biomedical research. One of the principal
advantages of marmosets as a research model is their rich vocal repertoire and
communicative vocal behaviors displayed both in the wild and in captivity.
Studies of this species' vocal communication system have the potential to reveal 
the evolutionary underpinnings of human speech, and therefore are of interest to 
the neuroscience and biology research communities. Here a recent research into
the behavioral and neurobiological basis of marmoset vocal communication was
reviewed and they argued for their broader value as a neuroscientific model. They
discuss potential avenues for future research including developmental
neurobiology and the application of modern molecular tools to the study of
primate communication. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77:
286-299, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22464 
PMID: 27739195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):354-372. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22459. Epub 2016 Oct 26.

Application of viral vectors to the study of neural connectivities and neural
circuits in the marmoset brain.

Watakabe A(1), Sadakane O(1), Hata K(1), Ohtsuka M(1), Takaji M(1), Yamamori
T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, Brain Science
Institute, RIKEN, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan.

It is important to study the neural connectivities and functions in primates. For
this purpose, it is critical to be able to transfer genes to certain neurons in
the primate brain so that we can image the neuronal signals and analyze the
function of the transferred gene. Toward this end, our team has been developing
gene transfer systems using viral vectors. In this review, we summarize our
current achievements as follows. 1) We compared the features of gene transfer
using five different AAV serotypes in combination with three different promoters,
namely, CMV, mouse CaMKII (CaMKII), and human synapsin 1 (hSyn1), in the marmoset
cortex with those in the mouse and macaque cortices. 2) We used target-specific
double-infection techniques in combination with TET-ON and TET-OFF using
lentiviral retrograde vectors for enhanced visualization of neural connections.
3) We used an AAV-mediated gene transfer method to study the transcriptional
control for amplifying fluorescent signals using the TET/TRE system in the
primate neocortex. We also established systems for shRNA mediated gene targeting 
in a neocortical region where a gene is significantly expressed and for
expressing the gene using the CMV promoter for an unexpressed neocortical area in
the primate cortex using AAV vectors to understand the regulation of downstream
genes. Our findings have demonstrated the feasibility of using viral vector
mediated gene transfer systems for the study of primate cortical circuits using
the marmoset as an animal model. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol
77: 354-372, 2017.

© 2016 The Authors. Developmental Neurobiology Published by Wiley Periodicals,
Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22459 
PMCID: PMC5324647
PMID: 27706918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

