

974. Comp Med. 2016;66(5):412-419.

Very Low Doses of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Yield Diverse Host Outcomes in
Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Cadena AM(1), Klein EC(2), White AG(1), Tomko JA(1), Chedrick CL(1), Reed DS(3), 
Via LE(4), Lin PL(5), Flynn JL(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Department of Immunology,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Division of Laboratory Animal Research, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Center for Vaccine Research, Department of Immunology, University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Tuberculosis Research Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, USA; Institute of Infectious Disease and
Molecular Medicine, Department of Pathology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, 
South Africa.
(5)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital
of Pittsburgh of UPMC, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Department of Immunology,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
joanne@pitt.edu.

Identifying and refining small-animal models of tuberculosis that recapitulate
aspects of human Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection can contribute to advancing
our understanding of critical facets of the disease. To study the effects of very
low-dose infections with 2 strains of M. tuberculosis on disease progression and 
survival in common marmosets, animals were challenged with strains Erdman and
CDC1551 at doses ranging from 1 to 12 cfu. These data revealed that the
susceptibility of marmosets to M. tuberculosis infection is influenced by strain 
virulence and initial dose. Marmoset infection with the Erdman strain, even at
very low doses, resulted in rapid disease progression associated with severe
weight loss, extensive pathology, and poor survival. By contrast, challenge with 
the less virulent CDC1551 strain resulted in slower disease progression, delayed 
weight loss, and prolonged survival. One marmoset infected with CDC1551 at a very
low dose (approximately 1 cfu) was able to contain and control M. tuberculosis
infection in a subclinical state that persisted as long as 300 d. These findings 
underscore the critical importance of understanding the heterogeneity in host
outcome that can arise in association with different infectious doses and strains
in the marmoset model of tuberculosis.


PMCID: PMC5073067
PMID: 27780009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Biochem Pharmacol. 2016 Nov 15;120:56-62. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2016.09.010. Epub
2016 Sep 21.

Oxidation of R- and S-omeprazole stereoselectively mediated by liver microsomal
cytochrome P450 2C19 enzymes from cynomolgus monkeys and common marmosets.

Uehara S(1), Kawano M(1), Murayama N(1), Uno Y(2), Utoh M(2), Inoue T(3), Sasaki 
E(4), Yamazaki H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(4)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan; Keio Advanced
Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Racemic omeprazole has been used for clinically treating gastric acid-related
diseases and also as a typical human cytochrome P450 (P450) 2C19 probe substrate 
in preclinical studies. S-Omeprazole has been developed as a single enantiomer
medicine, which has been reported not to be associated with polymorphic human
P450 2C19 phenotypes. In this study, 5-hydroxylation and sulfoxidation
activities, with respect to stereoselective R- and S-omeprazole oxidations by
liver microsomes from experimental animals including non-human primates and
humans, were investigated in vitro. Liver microsomes from humans, cynomolgus
monkeys, and mice preferentially mediated R-omeprazole 5-hydroxylations, however 
those from marmosets, minipigs, dogs, and rats preferentially mediated
S-omeprazole 5-hydroxylations. High catalytic activities were observed for
recombinant human P450 2C19 in R-omeprazole 5-hydroxlations, cynomolgus monkey
P450 2C19 in both R- and S-omeprazole 5-hydroxlations, and marmoset P450 2C19 in 
S-omeprazole 5-hydroxlations. On the other hand, human, cynomolgus monkey, and
marmoset P450 3A enzymes preferentially mediated S-omeprazole sulfoxidations.
Correlation and kinetic analyses revealed a high affinity of polymorphic
cynomolgus monkey and marmoset liver microsomal P450 2C19 enzymes with respect to
R- and S-omeprazole 5-hydroxylations, respectively, and a high capacity of
cynomolgus monkey and marmoset liver microsomal P450 3A4 for omeprazole
5-hydroxylations and sulfoxidations. R-and S-omeprazole 5-hydroxylation
activities in cynomolgus monkey and marmoset liver microsomes were significantly 
different among wild-type, heterozygous, and homozygous animals genotyped for
cynomolgus monkey P450 2C19 p.[(Phe100Asn; Ala103Val; Ile112Leu)] and for
marmoset P450 2C19 p.[(Phe7Leu; Ser254Leu; Ile469Thr)], respectively. The results
of this study demonstrate polymorphic cynomolgus monkey and marmoset P450
2C19-dependent omeprazole oxidation activities with individual variations similar
to humans.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2016.09.010 
PMID: 27641812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

