

980. J Neurophysiol. 2016 Dec 1;116(6):2789-2798. doi: 10.1152/jn.00474.2016. Epub
2016 Oct 5.

Spontaneous activity is correlated with coding density in primary auditory
cortex.

Bender DA(1)(2), Ni R(1), Barbour DL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri; 
and.
(2)Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis,
Missouri.
(3)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri; 
and dbarbour@biomed.wustl.edu.

Sensory neurons across sensory modalities and specific processing areas have
diverse levels of spontaneous firing rates (SFRs) in the absence of sensory
stimuli. However, the functional significance of this spontaneous activity is not
well-understood. Previous studies in the auditory system have demonstrated that
different levels of spontaneous activity are correlated with a variety of
physiological and anatomic properties, suggesting that neurons with differing
SFRs make unique contributions to the encoding of auditory stimuli. Additionally,
altered SFRs are a correlate of tinnitus, arising in several auditory areas after
exposure to ototoxic substances and noise trauma. In this study, we recorded
single-unit activity from primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset monkeys while
delivering wide-band random-spectrum stimuli and white Gaussian noise (WGN) to
examine any divergences in stimulus encoding properties across SFR classes. We
found that higher levels of spontaneous activity were associated with both higher
levels of activation relative to suppression across a variety of wide-band
stimuli and higher driven rates in response to WGN. Moreover, response latencies 
to WGN were negatively correlated with the level of activation in response to
both stimulus types. These findings are consistent with a novel view of the role 
spontaneous spiking may play during normal stimulus processing in primary
auditory cortex and how it may malfunction in cases of tinnitus.

Copyright © 2016 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00474.2016 
PMCID: PMC5155035
PMID: 27707812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):373-389. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22456. Epub 2016 Oct 21.

Anatomical and functional neuroimaging in awake, behaving marmosets.

Silva AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World monkey that has
gained significant recent interest in neuroscience research, not only because of 
its compatibility with gene editing techniques, but also due to its tremendous
versatility as an experimental animal model. Neuroimaging modalities, including
anatomical (MRI) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), complemented
by two-photon laser scanning microscopy and electrophysiology, have been at the
forefront of unraveling the anatomical and functional organization of the
marmoset brain. High-resolution anatomical MRI of the marmoset brain can be
obtained with remarkable cytoarchitectonic detail. Functional MRI of the marmoset
brain has been used to study various sensory systems, including somatosensory,
auditory, and visual pathways, while resting-state fMRI studies have unraveled
functional brain networks that bear great correspondence to those previously
described in humans. Two-photon laser scanning microscopy of the marmoset brain
has enabled the simultaneous recording of neuronal activity from thousands of
neurons with single cell spatial resolution. In this article, we aim to review
the main results obtained by our group and by our colleagues in applying
neuroimaging techniques to study the marmoset brain. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals,
Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77: 373-389, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22456 
PMCID: PMC5318267
PMID: 27706916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

