

983. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2017 Jan;162(1):157-169. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.23105. Epub 2016 
Oct 20.

Phylogeny of the jacchus group of Callithrix marmosets based on complete
mitochondrial genomes.

Malukiewicz J(1), Hepp CM(2), Guschanski K(3), Stone AC(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona, 85287, USA.
(2)School of Informatics, Computing, and Cyber Systems, Northern Arizona
University, Flagstaff, AZ 86011, USA.
(3)Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University,
Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
AZ 85287, USA.
(5)Institute of Human Origins, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Two subgroups make up the marmoset genus Callithrix. The "aurita"
group is composed of two species, whereas evolutionary relationships among the
four species of the "jacchus" group remain unclear. To uncover these
relationships, we first sequenced mitochondrial genomes for C. kuhlii and C.
penicillata to complement data available for congeners. We then constructed a
phylogenetic tree based on mtDNA heavy chain protein coding genes from several
primates to untangle species relationships and estimate divergence times of the
jacchus group.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: MtDNA genomes of C. kuhlii and C. penicillata were Sanger 
sequenced. These Callithrix mitogenomes were combined with other publically
available primate mtDNA genomes. Phylogenies were produced using maximum
likelihood and Bayesian inference. Finally, divergence times within the jacchus
group of marmosets were estimated with Bayesian inference.
RESULTS: In our phylogenetic tree, C. geoffroyi was the sister to all other
jacchus group species, followed by C. kuhlii, while C. jacchus and C. penicillata
diverged most recently. Bayesian inference showed that C. jacchus and C.
penicillata diverged approximately 0.70 MYA and that the jacchus group radiated
approximately 1.30 MYA.
DISCUSSION: Callithrix nuclear and mtDNA phylogenies frequently result in
polytomies and paraphyly. Here, we present a well-supported phylogenetic tree
based on mitochondrial genome sequences, which facilitates the understanding of
the divergence of the jacchus marmosets. Our results demonstrate how
mitochondrial genomes can enrich Callithrix phylogenetic studies by alleviating
some of the difficulties faced by previous mtDNA studies and allow formulation of
hypotheses to test further under larger genomic-scale analyses.

Â© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.23105 
PMID: 27762445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Exp Anim. 2017 Jan 27;66(1):51-60. doi: 10.1538/expanim.16-0073. Epub 2016 Oct
18.

Investigation of sleep-wake rhythm in non-human primates without restraint during
data collection.

Ishikawa A(1), Sakai K, Maki T, Mizuno Y, Niimi K, Oda Y, Takahashi E.

Author information: 
(1)Sleep Science Laboratories, HAMRI Co., Ltd., Ibaraki 306-0128, Japan.

To understand sleep mechanisms and develop treatments for sleep disorders,
investigations using animal models are essential. The sleep architecture of
rodents differs from that of diurnal mammals including humans and non-human
primates. Sleep studies have been conducted in non-human primates; however, these
sleep assessments were performed on animals placed in a restraint chair connected
via the umbilical area to the recording apparatus. To avoid restraints, cables,
and other stressful apparatuses and manipulations, telemetry systems have been
developed. In the present study, sleep recordings in unrestrained cynomolgus
monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) and common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus)
were conducted to characterize normal sleep. For the analysis of sleep-wake
rhythms in cynomolgus monkeys, telemetry electroencephalography (EEG),
electromyography (EMG), and electrooculography (EOG) signals were used. For the
analysis of sleep-wake rhythms in marmosets, telemetry EEG and EOG signals were
used. Both monkey species showed monophasic sleep patterns during the dark phase.
Although non-rapid eye movement (NREM) deep sleep showed higher levels at the
beginning of the dark phase in cynomolgus monkeys, NREM deep sleep rarely
occurred during the dark phase in marmosets. Our results indicate that the use of
telemetry in non-human primate models is useful for sleep studies, and that the
different NREM deep sleep activities between cynomolgus monkeys and common
marmoset monkeys are useful to examine sleep functions.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.16-0073 
PMCID: PMC5301001
PMID: 27760892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

