

984. Exp Anim. 2017 Jan 27;66(1):51-60. doi: 10.1538/expanim.16-0073. Epub 2016 Oct
18.

Investigation of sleep-wake rhythm in non-human primates without restraint during
data collection.

Ishikawa A(1), Sakai K, Maki T, Mizuno Y, Niimi K, Oda Y, Takahashi E.

Author information: 
(1)Sleep Science Laboratories, HAMRI Co., Ltd., Ibaraki 306-0128, Japan.

To understand sleep mechanisms and develop treatments for sleep disorders,
investigations using animal models are essential. The sleep architecture of
rodents differs from that of diurnal mammals including humans and non-human
primates. Sleep studies have been conducted in non-human primates; however, these
sleep assessments were performed on animals placed in a restraint chair connected
via the umbilical area to the recording apparatus. To avoid restraints, cables,
and other stressful apparatuses and manipulations, telemetry systems have been
developed. In the present study, sleep recordings in unrestrained cynomolgus
monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) and common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus)
were conducted to characterize normal sleep. For the analysis of sleep-wake
rhythms in cynomolgus monkeys, telemetry electroencephalography (EEG),
electromyography (EMG), and electrooculography (EOG) signals were used. For the
analysis of sleep-wake rhythms in marmosets, telemetry EEG and EOG signals were
used. Both monkey species showed monophasic sleep patterns during the dark phase.
Although non-rapid eye movement (NREM) deep sleep showed higher levels at the
beginning of the dark phase in cynomolgus monkeys, NREM deep sleep rarely
occurred during the dark phase in marmosets. Our results indicate that the use of
telemetry in non-human primate models is useful for sleep studies, and that the
different NREM deep sleep activities between cynomolgus monkeys and common
marmoset monkeys are useful to examine sleep functions.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.16-0073 
PMCID: PMC5301001
PMID: 27760892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Neuroimmunol. 2017 Mar 15;304:86-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2016.09.016. Epub 
2016 Oct 8.

Magnetic resonance imaging of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the
common marmoset.

Maggi P(1), Sati P(2), Massacesi L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Hôpital Erasme-Université libre de Bruxelles,
Belgium.
(2)Translational Neuroradiology Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosciences, Drug Research, and Child Health, University of
Florence, Florence, Italy.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an invaluable tool for the diagnosis and
monitoring of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) as well as for the study of
the disease pathophysiology. Because of its strong clinical, radiological and
histopathological similarities with the human disease, experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common marmoset has been studied more intensively 
over the past several years. Here, we review the current knowledge on MRI in the 
marmoset EAE, and we outline the physiopathological significance and
translational values of these studies with respect to MS. Accumulating evidences 
suggest that the application of conventional, as well as non-conventional, MRI
techniques in the marmoset EAE is a promising approach to elucidate the
pathological processes underlying the development of inflammatory demyelinated
lesions in the central nervous system, potentially improving the identification
and development of new therapeutics.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2016.09.016 
PMID: 27743612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

