

985. J Neuroimmunol. 2017 Mar 15;304:86-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2016.09.016. Epub 
2016 Oct 8.

Magnetic resonance imaging of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the
common marmoset.

Maggi P(1), Sati P(2), Massacesi L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Hôpital Erasme-Université libre de Bruxelles,
Belgium.
(2)Translational Neuroradiology Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosciences, Drug Research, and Child Health, University of
Florence, Florence, Italy.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an invaluable tool for the diagnosis and
monitoring of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) as well as for the study of
the disease pathophysiology. Because of its strong clinical, radiological and
histopathological similarities with the human disease, experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the common marmoset has been studied more intensively 
over the past several years. Here, we review the current knowledge on MRI in the 
marmoset EAE, and we outline the physiopathological significance and
translational values of these studies with respect to MS. Accumulating evidences 
suggest that the application of conventional, as well as non-conventional, MRI
techniques in the marmoset EAE is a promising approach to elucidate the
pathological processes underlying the development of inflammatory demyelinated
lesions in the central nervous system, potentially improving the identification
and development of new therapeutics.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2016.09.016 
PMID: 27743612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Endocrinology. 2016 Dec;157(12):4817-4828. Epub 2016 Oct 11.

A Sexually Dimorphic Area of the Dorsal Hypothalamus in Mice and Common
Marmosets.

Moe Y(1), Kyi-Tha-Thu C(1), Tanaka T(1), Ito H(1), Yahashi S(1), Matsuda KI(1),
Kawata M(1), Katsuura G(1), Iwashige F(1), Sakata I(1), Akune A(1), Inui A(1),
Sakai T(1), Ogawa S(1), Tsukahara S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Life Science (Y.M., C.K.-T.-T., T.T., H.I., I.S., T.S., S.T.),
Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University, Sakura-ku,
Saitama 338-8570, Japan; Drug Safety Research Laboratories (S.Y., F.I., A.A.),
Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd, Kagoshima 891-1394, Japan; Department
of Anatomy and Neurobiology (K.-I.M., M.K.), Kyoto Prefectural University of
Medicine, Kawaramachi Hirokoji, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto 602-8566, Japan; Department of 
Psychosomatic Internal Medicine (G.K., A.I.), Graduate School of Medical and
Dental Sciences, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima 890-8520, Japan; and Laboratory 
of Behavioral Neuroendocrinology (S.O.), University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8577, Japan.

We found a novel sexually dimorphic area (SDA) in the dorsal hypothalamus (DH) of
mice. The SDA-DH was sandwiched between 2 known male-biased sexually dimorphic
nuclei, the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the 
calbindin-sexually dimorphic nucleus, and exhibited a female-biased sex
difference in neuronal cell density. The density of neurons in the SDA-DH was
increased in male mice by orchidectomy on the day of birth and decreased in
female mice by treatment with testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, or estradiol
within 5 days after birth. These findings indicate that the SDA-DH is defeminized
under the influence of testicular testosterone, which acts via both directly by
binding to the androgen receptor, and indirectly by binding to the estrogen
receptor after aromatization. We measured the activity of SDA-DH neurons with
c-Fos, a neuronal activity marker, in female mice during maternal and sexual
behaviors. The number of c-Fos-expressing neurons in the SDA-DH of female mice
was negatively correlated with maternal behavior performance. However, the number
of c-Fos-expressing neurons did not change during female sexual behavior. These
findings suggest that the SDA-DH contains a neuronal cell population, the
activity of which decreases in females exhibiting higher performance of maternal 
behavior, but it may contribute less to female sexual behavior. Additionally, we 
examined the brain of common marmosets and found an area that appears to be
homologous with the mouse SDA-DH. The sexually dimorphic structure identified in 
this study is not specific to mice and may be found in other species.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2016-1428 
PMID: 27726418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

