

986. Endocrinology. 2016 Dec;157(12):4817-4828. Epub 2016 Oct 11.

A Sexually Dimorphic Area of the Dorsal Hypothalamus in Mice and Common
Marmosets.

Moe Y(1), Kyi-Tha-Thu C(1), Tanaka T(1), Ito H(1), Yahashi S(1), Matsuda KI(1),
Kawata M(1), Katsuura G(1), Iwashige F(1), Sakata I(1), Akune A(1), Inui A(1),
Sakai T(1), Ogawa S(1), Tsukahara S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Life Science (Y.M., C.K.-T.-T., T.T., H.I., I.S., T.S., S.T.),
Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University, Sakura-ku,
Saitama 338-8570, Japan; Drug Safety Research Laboratories (S.Y., F.I., A.A.),
Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd, Kagoshima 891-1394, Japan; Department
of Anatomy and Neurobiology (K.-I.M., M.K.), Kyoto Prefectural University of
Medicine, Kawaramachi Hirokoji, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto 602-8566, Japan; Department of 
Psychosomatic Internal Medicine (G.K., A.I.), Graduate School of Medical and
Dental Sciences, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima 890-8520, Japan; and Laboratory 
of Behavioral Neuroendocrinology (S.O.), University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8577, Japan.

We found a novel sexually dimorphic area (SDA) in the dorsal hypothalamus (DH) of
mice. The SDA-DH was sandwiched between 2 known male-biased sexually dimorphic
nuclei, the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the 
calbindin-sexually dimorphic nucleus, and exhibited a female-biased sex
difference in neuronal cell density. The density of neurons in the SDA-DH was
increased in male mice by orchidectomy on the day of birth and decreased in
female mice by treatment with testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, or estradiol
within 5 days after birth. These findings indicate that the SDA-DH is defeminized
under the influence of testicular testosterone, which acts via both directly by
binding to the androgen receptor, and indirectly by binding to the estrogen
receptor after aromatization. We measured the activity of SDA-DH neurons with
c-Fos, a neuronal activity marker, in female mice during maternal and sexual
behaviors. The number of c-Fos-expressing neurons in the SDA-DH of female mice
was negatively correlated with maternal behavior performance. However, the number
of c-Fos-expressing neurons did not change during female sexual behavior. These
findings suggest that the SDA-DH contains a neuronal cell population, the
activity of which decreases in females exhibiting higher performance of maternal 
behavior, but it may contribute less to female sexual behavior. Additionally, we 
examined the brain of common marmosets and found an area that appears to be
homologous with the mouse SDA-DH. The sexually dimorphic structure identified in 
this study is not specific to mice and may be found in other species.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2016-1428 
PMID: 27726418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Sci Rep. 2016 Oct 11;6:34931. doi: 10.1038/srep34931.

Generation of transgenic marmosets expressing genetically encoded calcium
indicators.

Park JE(1), Zhang XF(1), Choi SH(1), Okahara J(2), Sasaki E(2)(3), Silva AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Tonomachi, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 210-0821, Japan.
(3)Keio advanced Research Center, Keio University, Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Chronic monitoring of neuronal activity in the living brain with optical imaging 
techniques became feasible owing to the continued development of genetically
encoded calcium indicators (GECIs). Here we report for the first time the
successful generation of transgenic marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), an important 
nonhuman primate model in neurophysiological research, which were engineered to
express the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-based family of GECIs, GCaMP, under
control of either the CMV or the hSyn promoter. High titer lentiviral vectors
were produced, and injected into embryos collected from donor females. The
infected embryos were then transferred to recipient females. Eight transgenic
animals were born and shown to have stable and functional GCaMP expression in
several different tissues. Germline transmission of the transgene was confirmed
in embryos generated from two of the founder transgenic marmosets that reached
sexual maturity. These embryos were implanted into six recipient females, three
of which became pregnant and are in advanced stages of gestation. We believe
these transgenic marmosets will be invaluable non-human primate models in
neuroscience, allowing chronic in vivo monitoring of neural activity with
functional confocal and multi-photon optical microscopy imaging of intracellular 
calcium dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/srep34931 
PMCID: PMC5057151
PMID: 27725685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

