

987. Sci Rep. 2016 Oct 11;6:34931. doi: 10.1038/srep34931.

Generation of transgenic marmosets expressing genetically encoded calcium
indicators.

Park JE(1), Zhang XF(1), Choi SH(1), Okahara J(2), Sasaki E(2)(3), Silva AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Tonomachi, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 210-0821, Japan.
(3)Keio advanced Research Center, Keio University, Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Chronic monitoring of neuronal activity in the living brain with optical imaging 
techniques became feasible owing to the continued development of genetically
encoded calcium indicators (GECIs). Here we report for the first time the
successful generation of transgenic marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), an important 
nonhuman primate model in neurophysiological research, which were engineered to
express the green fluorescent protein (GFP)-based family of GECIs, GCaMP, under
control of either the CMV or the hSyn promoter. High titer lentiviral vectors
were produced, and injected into embryos collected from donor females. The
infected embryos were then transferred to recipient females. Eight transgenic
animals were born and shown to have stable and functional GCaMP expression in
several different tissues. Germline transmission of the transgene was confirmed
in embryos generated from two of the founder transgenic marmosets that reached
sexual maturity. These embryos were implanted into six recipient females, three
of which became pregnant and are in advanced stages of gestation. We believe
these transgenic marmosets will be invaluable non-human primate models in
neuroscience, allowing chronic in vivo monitoring of neural activity with
functional confocal and multi-photon optical microscopy imaging of intracellular 
calcium dynamics.

DOI: 10.1038/srep34931 
PMCID: PMC5057151
PMID: 27725685  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Zoolog Sci. 2016 Oct;33(5):497-504.

Molecular Cloning of Ghrelin and Characteristics of Ghrelin-Producing Cells in
the Gastrointestinal Tract of the Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Takemi S(1), Sakata I(1), Apu AS(1), Tsukahara S(2), Yahashi S(3), Katsuura G(4),
Iwashige F(3), Akune A(3), Inui A(4), Sakai T(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Area of Regulatory Biology, Division of Life Science, Graduate School of
Science and Engineering,Saitama University, 255 Shimo-okubo, Sakura-ku, Saitama
338-8570, Japan.
(2)2 Area of Life-NanoBio, Division of Strategy Research, Graduate School of
Science and Engineering,Saitama University, 255 Shimo-okubo, Sakura-ku, Saitama
338-8570, Japan.
(3)3 Drug Safety Research Laboratories, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd.
(SNBL DSR),2438 Miyanoura, Kagoshima 891-1394, Japan.
(4)4 Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima
University,Kagoshima 890-8544, Japan.

Ghrelin was first isolated from human and rat as an endogenous ligand for the
growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R). In the present study, we determined
the ghrelin cDNA sequence of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a
small-bodied New World monkey, and investigated the distribution of
ghrelin-producing cells in the gastrointestinal tract and localization profiles
with somatostatin-producing cells. The marmoset ghrelin cDNA coding region was
354 base pairs, and showed high homology to that in human, rhesus monkey, and
mouse. Marmoset ghrelin consists of 28 amino acids, and the N-terminal region is 
highly conserved as found in other mammalian species. Marmoset preproghrelin and 
mature ghrelin have 86.3% and 92.9% homology, respectively, to their human
counterparts. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that marmoset ghrelin mRNA is
highly expressed in the stomach, but it is not detected in other tissues of the
gastrointestinal tract. In addition, a large number of ghrelin mRNA-expressing
cells and ghrelin-immunopositive cells were detected in the mucosal layer of the 
stomach, but not in the myenteric plexus. Moreover, all the ghrelin cells
examined in the stomach were observed to be closed-type. Double staining showed
that somatostatin-immunopositive cells were not co-localized with
ghrelin-producing cells; however, a subset of somatostatin-immunopositive cells
is directly adjacent to ghrelin-immunopositive cells. These findings suggest that
the distribution of ghrelin cells in marmoset differs from that in rodents, and
thus the marmoset may be a more useful model for the translational study of
ghrelin in primates. In conclusion, we have clarified the expression and cell
distribution of ghrelin in marmoset, which may represent a useful model in
translational study.

DOI: 10.2108/zs160020 
PMID: 27715422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

