

988. Zoolog Sci. 2016 Oct;33(5):497-504.

Molecular Cloning of Ghrelin and Characteristics of Ghrelin-Producing Cells in
the Gastrointestinal Tract of the Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Takemi S(1), Sakata I(1), Apu AS(1), Tsukahara S(2), Yahashi S(3), Katsuura G(4),
Iwashige F(3), Akune A(3), Inui A(4), Sakai T(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Area of Regulatory Biology, Division of Life Science, Graduate School of
Science and Engineering,Saitama University, 255 Shimo-okubo, Sakura-ku, Saitama
338-8570, Japan.
(2)2 Area of Life-NanoBio, Division of Strategy Research, Graduate School of
Science and Engineering,Saitama University, 255 Shimo-okubo, Sakura-ku, Saitama
338-8570, Japan.
(3)3 Drug Safety Research Laboratories, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd.
(SNBL DSR),2438 Miyanoura, Kagoshima 891-1394, Japan.
(4)4 Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima
University,Kagoshima 890-8544, Japan.

Ghrelin was first isolated from human and rat as an endogenous ligand for the
growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R). In the present study, we determined
the ghrelin cDNA sequence of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a
small-bodied New World monkey, and investigated the distribution of
ghrelin-producing cells in the gastrointestinal tract and localization profiles
with somatostatin-producing cells. The marmoset ghrelin cDNA coding region was
354 base pairs, and showed high homology to that in human, rhesus monkey, and
mouse. Marmoset ghrelin consists of 28 amino acids, and the N-terminal region is 
highly conserved as found in other mammalian species. Marmoset preproghrelin and 
mature ghrelin have 86.3% and 92.9% homology, respectively, to their human
counterparts. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that marmoset ghrelin mRNA is
highly expressed in the stomach, but it is not detected in other tissues of the
gastrointestinal tract. In addition, a large number of ghrelin mRNA-expressing
cells and ghrelin-immunopositive cells were detected in the mucosal layer of the 
stomach, but not in the myenteric plexus. Moreover, all the ghrelin cells
examined in the stomach were observed to be closed-type. Double staining showed
that somatostatin-immunopositive cells were not co-localized with
ghrelin-producing cells; however, a subset of somatostatin-immunopositive cells
is directly adjacent to ghrelin-immunopositive cells. These findings suggest that
the distribution of ghrelin cells in marmoset differs from that in rodents, and
thus the marmoset may be a more useful model for the translational study of
ghrelin in primates. In conclusion, we have clarified the expression and cell
distribution of ghrelin in marmoset, which may represent a useful model in
translational study.

DOI: 10.2108/zs160020 
PMID: 27715422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Sci Rep. 2016 Oct 6;6:34543. doi: 10.1038/srep34543.

ERK/c-Jun Recruits Tet1 to Induce Zta Expression and Epstein-Barr Virus
Reactivation through DNA Demethylation.

Zhang W(1), Han D(1), Wan P(1), Pan P(1), Cao Y(1), Liu Y(1), Wu K(1), Wu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virology and College of Life Sciences, Wuhan
University, Wuhan 430072, China.

DNA demethylation plays an essential role in the reactivation of Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) from latency infection. However, it is unclear how epigenetic
modification is initiated in responding to stimuli. Here, we demonstrate that
ERK/c-Jun signaling is involved in DNA demethylation of EBV immediate early (IE) 
gene Zta in response to 12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) stimulation.
Remarkably, Ser73 phosphorylation of c-Jun facilitates Zta promoter demethylation
and EBV reactivation, whereas knockdown of c-Jun attenuates Zta demethylation and
viral reactivation. More importantly, we reveal for the first time that c-Jun
interacts with DNA dioxygenase Tet1 and facilitates Tet1 to bind to Zta promoter.
The binding of c-Jun and Tet1 to Zta enhances promoter demethylation, resulting
in the activation of Zta, the stimulation of BHRF1 (a lytic early gene) and
gp350/220 (a lytic late gene), and ultimately the reactivation of EBV. Knockdown 
of Tet1 attenuates TPA-induced Zta demethylation and EBV reactivation. Thus, TPA 
activates ERK/c-Jun signaling, which subsequently facilitates Tet1 to bind to Zta
promoter, leading to DNA demethylation, gene expression, and EBV reactivation.
This study reveals important roles of ERK/c-Jun signaling and Tet1 dioxygenase in
epigenetic modification, and provides new insights into the mechanism underlying 
the regulation of virus latent and lytic infection.

DOI: 10.1038/srep34543 
PMCID: PMC5052586
PMID: 27708396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

