

991. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2016;55(5):594-600.

The Effect of Anesthesia on Blood Pressure Measured Noninvasively by Using the
Tail-Cuff Method in Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ansel TV(1), Nour AK(1), Benavente-Perez A(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Optometry, State University of New York (SUNY), New York, New York,
USA.
(2)College of Optometry, State University of New York (SUNY), New York, New York,
USA. abenavente@sunyopt.edu.

In this study, we evaluated the validity of measuring blood pressure (BP)
noninvasively in marmosets by using the tail-cuff method. The number of
measurements needed for a valid reading was calculated by plotting the average SD
of 5 consecutive readings in 10 naïve marmosets; the SD for both systolic and
diastolic BP readings plateaued after 4 readings. To evaluate how anesthesia
(alphaxalone, 15 mg/kg IM) affected BP in marmosets, we measured 4 animals every 
minute for 60 min after injection. The average length of anesthesia was 47.3 ±
13.2 min. The variability in the systolic and diastolic BP was the smallest at 10
to 30 min after injection (systolic SD, 6.29 mm Hg; diastolic SD, 5.27 mm Hg) and
almost doubled at 30 to 60 min after injection (systolic SD, 13.5 mm Hg;
diastolic SD, 12.3 mm Hg). The within- and between-session repeatability and
reproducibility were calculated by measuring 12 marmosets twice at the same time 
of day (±1 h) 1 wk apart. The coefficients of repeatability and reproducibility
were 1.98% and 14.5% for systolic BP and 3.37% and 16.2% for diastolic BP,
respectively. Our results indicate that using the volumetric tail-cuff method to 
measure BP noninvasively in anesthetized marmosets is safe and feasible. The
measures are least variable within 10 to 30 min after the injection of
anesthetic, and variability increases slightly between sessions.


PMCID: PMC5029832 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 27657716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Am J Primatol. 2017 Feb;79(2):1-12. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22588. Epub 2016 Sep 19.

Prenatal androgen exposure and parental care interact to influence timing of
reproductive maturation in marmosets.

Huffman MC(1)(2), Santo JB(2), French JA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska.

The timing of reproductive maturation is susceptible to hormonal and
environmental influences, and variation in this timing can be partially
attributed to the prenatal and post-natal environment. We examined associations
between prenatal steroid exposure and the post-natal family environment on the
variability in reproductive maturation timing in young marmosets (Callithrix
geoffroyi). Urine samples from pregnant females were analyzed for cortisol (CORT)
and androgens (uA). Post-natal uA was measured in males to determine age (in
days) of adult-like levels of androgens associated with spermatogenesis;
post-natal pregnanediol glucuronide (PdG) was measured in females to determine
age (in days) of first ovulation. Maternal, paternal, alloparental, and total
care (carrying, grooming, and rejection/removals) of offspring were observed.
Female offspring exposed to lower prenatal uA levels and higher paternal grooming
and lower maternal rejection/removals showed later first ovulation, whereas
female offspring exposed to higher prenatal uA showed earlier first ovulation.
Male offspring showed earlier reproductive maturation as paternal grooming
increased, regardless of first trimester uA exposure. Male offspring exposed to
low prenatal uA levels showed earlier reproductive maturation as maternal
rejections/removals increased. In offspring exposed to low prenatal CORT, high
total carrying predicted earlier first ovulation in females, but later
reproductive maturation in males. Total carrying duration did not affect timing
of reproductive maturation in offspring exposed to high third trimester CORT
levels. Our findings expand the evolutionary theory of socialization by
demonstrating that the effect of post-natal family environment on timing of
reproductive maturation depends on prenatal uA exposure and also influences
reproductive maturation timing in male offspring.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22588 
PMID: 27643386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

