

993. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2016 Dec 30;19(12). pii: pyw079. doi:
10.1093/ijnp/pyw079. Print 2016 Dec.

Marmoset Serotonin 5-HT1A Receptor Mapping with a Biased Agonist PET Probe
18F-F13714: Comparison with an Antagonist Tracer 18F-MPPF in Awake and
Anesthetized States.

Yokoyama C(1), Mawatari A(1), Kawasaki A(1), Takeda C(1), Onoe K(1), Doi H(1),
Newman-Tancredi A(1), Zimmer L(1), Onoe H(2).

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan (Dr Yokoyama,
Ms Mawatari, Mr Kawasaki, Ms Takeda, Ms K. Onoe, Dr Doi, Dr H. Onoe); Neurolixis 
Inc, Dana Point, CA (Dr Newman-Tancredi); Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1,
Hospices Civils de Lyon, INSERM, CNRS, Lyon Neuroscience Research Center, Lyon,
France (Dr Zimmer).
(2)RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan (Dr Yokoyama,
Ms Mawatari, Mr Kawasaki, Ms Takeda, Ms K. Onoe, Dr Doi, Dr H. Onoe); Neurolixis 
Inc, Dana Point, CA (Dr Newman-Tancredi); Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1,
Hospices Civils de Lyon, INSERM, CNRS, Lyon Neuroscience Research Center, Lyon,
France (Dr Zimmer). hiro.onoe@riken.jp.

BACKGROUND: In vivo mapping by positron emission tomography of the serotonin 1A
receptors has been hindered by the lack of suitable agonist positron emission
tomography probes. 18F-labeled F13714 is a recently developed biased agonist
positron emission tomography probe that preferentially targets subpopulations of 
serotonin 1A receptors in their "active state," but its brain labeling pattern in
nonhuman primate has not been described. In addition, a potential confound in the
translatability of PET data between nonhuman animal and human arise from the use 
of anesthetics that may modify the binding profiles of target receptors.
METHODS: Positron emission tomography scans were conducted in a cohort of common 
marmosets (n=4) using the serotonin 1A receptor biased agonist radiotracer,
18F-F13714, compared with a well-characterized 18F-labeled antagonist
radiotracer, 18F-MPPF. Experiments on each animal were performed under both
consciousness and isoflurane-anesthesia conditions.
RESULTS: 18F-F13714 binding distribution in marmosets by positron emission
tomography differs markedly from that of the 18F-MPPF. Whereas 18F-MPPF showed
highest binding in hippocampus and amygdala, 18F-F13714 showed highest labeling
in other regions, including insular and cingulate cortex, thalamus, raphe,
caudate nucleus, and putamen. The binding potential values of 18F-F13714 were
about one-third of those observed with 18F-MPPF, with marked individual- and
region-specific differences under isoflurane-anesthetized vs conscious
conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight the importance of investigating the brain
imaging of serotonin 1A receptors using agonist probes such as 18F-F13714, which 
may preferentially target subpopulations of serotonin 1A receptors in specific
brain regions of nonhuman primate as a biased agonist.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyw079 
PMCID: PMC5203761
PMID: 27608810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Biopreserv Biobank. 2016 Dec;14(6):530-538. Epub 2016 Sep 7.

Xeno-Free Cryopreservation of Bone Marrow-Derived Multipotent Stromal Cells from 
Callithrix jacchus.

Lauterboeck L(1), Saha D(1), Chatterjee A(1), Hofmann N(1), Glasmacher B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover , Hannover,
Germany .

In the previous decade, numerous biobanks were established and have created large
markets for the storage of bioactive compounds, cells, and tissues for medical
and diagnostic applications. For in vivo clinical and therapeutic purposes, it is
critical to use well-defined and xeno-free components during cultivation,
preservation, and transplantation of biological material. Safe and efficacious
storage of bioactive molecules, cells, and tissues, without the addition of
undefined medium components, minimizes risks of zoonotic disease transmission and
is thus an essential and desirable prerequisite for biobanks. This gives rise to 
a need for well-characterized and serum-free freezing media for application in
cryopreservation. For this purpose, cryobiological additives such as
methylcellulose, poloxamer-188, and α-tocopherol, which have previously been
shown to exhibit a cytoprotective activity, have been investigated for
cryoprotection on stem cells. With this strategy, the application of fetal bovine
serum (FBS) could be avoided and the concentration of toxic cryoprotective agents
such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) could be reduced. Our results suggest that the 
viability, as well as the adipogenic and osteogenic differentiation capacity of
the thawed bone marrow-derived multipotent stromal stem cells, could be
maintained using a freezing medium without FBS consisting of methylcellulose,
poloxamer, and α-tocopherol with only 2.5% DMSO (% v/v).

DOI: 10.1089/bio.2016.0038 
PMID: 27603179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

