

999. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 29;11(8):e0162023. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162023.
eCollection 2016.

Viral Vector-Based Dissection of Marmoset GFAP Promoter in Mouse and Marmoset
Brains.

Shinohara Y(1)(2), Konno A(1), Takahashi N(1), Matsuzaki Y(1), Kishi S(2), Hirai 
H(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology & Neural Repair, Gunma University Graduate
School of Medicine, Maebashi, Gunma, Japan.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine,
Maebashi, Gunma, Japan.
(3)Research Program for Neural Signalling, Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism 
and Signal Research, Gunma University Initiative for Advanced Research, Maebashi,
Gunma, Japan.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors are small in diameter, diffuse easily in the
brain, and represent a highly efficient means by which to transfer a transgene to
the brain of a large animal. A major demerit of AAV vectors is their limited
accommodation capacity for transgenes. Thus, a compact promoter is useful when
delivering large transgenes via AAV vectors. In the present study, we aimed to
identify the shortest astrocyte-specific GFAP promoter region that could be used 
for AAV-vector-mediated transgene expression in the marmoset brain. The 2.0-kb
promoter region upstream of the GFAP gene was cloned from the marmoset genome,
and short promoters (1.6 kb, 1.4 kb, 0.6 kb, 0.3 kb and 0.2 kb) were obtained by 
progressively deleting the original 2.0-kb promoter from the 5' end. The short
promoters were screened in the mouse cerebellum in terms of their strength and
astrocyte specificity. We found that the 0.3-kb promoter maintained 40% of the
strength of the original 2.0-kb promoter, and approximately 90% of its astrocyte 
specificity. These properties were superior to those of the 1.4-kb, 0.6-kb (20%
promoter strength) and 0.2-kb (70% astrocyte specificity) promoters. Then, we
verified whether the 0.3-kb GFAP promoter retained astrocyte specificity in the
marmoset cerebral cortex. Injection of viral vectors carrying the 0.3-kb marmoset
GFAP promoter specifically transduced astrocytes in both the cerebral cortex and 
cerebellar cortex of the marmoset. These results suggest that the compact 0.3-kb 
promoter region serves as an astrocyte-specific promoter in the marmoset brain,
which permits us to express a large gene by AAV vectors that have a limited
accommodation capacity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162023 
PMCID: PMC5003399
PMID: 27571575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


1000. Front Psychol. 2016 Aug 9;7:1190. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2016.01190. eCollection
2016.

An Observational Investigation of Behavioral Contagion in Common Marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus): Indications for Contagious Scent-Marking.

Massen JJ(1), Å lipogor V(1), Gallup AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna Vienna, Austria.
(2)Psychology Department, State University of New York at Oneonta Oneonta, NY,
USA.

Behavioral contagion is suggested to promote group coordination that may
facilitate activity transitions, increased vigilance, and state matching. Apart
from contagious yawning, however, very little attention has been given to this
phenomenon, and studies on contagious yawning in primates have so far only
focused on Old World monkeys and apes. Here we studied behavioral contagion in
common marmosets, a species for which group coordination and vigilance are
paramount. In particular, we investigated the contagiousness of yawning,
stretching, scratching, tongue protrusion, gnawing, and scent-marking. We coded
these behaviors from 14 adult marmosets, from two different social groups. During
testing sessions, animals were separated into groups of four individuals for
20-min observation periods, across three distinct diurnal time points (morning,
midday, and afternoon) to test for circadian patterns. We observed almost no
yawning (0.12 yawns/h) and very little stretching behavior. For all other
behaviors, which were more common, we found several temporal and inter-individual
differences (i.e., sex, age, dominance status) predictive of these responses.
Moreover, we found that gnawing and scent-marking, which almost always
co-occurred as a fixed-action pattern, were highly temporally clustered within
observation sessions. We discuss the relative absence of yawning in marmosets as 
well as the possible function of contagious scent-marking, and provide
suggestions for future research into the proximate and ultimate functions of
these behaviors in marmosets.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2016.01190 
PMCID: PMC4980586
PMID: 27563294 

