

10. Front Neuroanat. 2022 Feb 4;16:809446. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2022.809446.
eCollection 2022.

Conservation of the Direct and Indirect Pathway Dichotomy in Mouse Caudal
Striatum With Uneven Distribution of Dopamine Receptor D1- and D2-Expressing
Neurons.

Ogata K(1), Kadono F(2), Hirai Y(1)(2), Inoue KI(3), Takada M(3), Karube F(1)(2),
Fujiyama F(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neural Circuitry, Graduate School of Brain Science, Doshisha
University, Kyotanabe, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Histology and Cytology, Faculty of Medicine and Graduate School 
of Medicine, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.
(3)Systems Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University,
Inuyama, Japan.

The striatum is one of the key nuclei for adequate control of voluntary behaviors
and reinforcement learning. Two striatal projection neuron types, expressing
either dopamine receptor D1 (D1R) or dopamine receptor D2 (D2R) constitute two
independent output routes: the direct or indirect pathways, respectively. These
pathways co-work in balance to achieve coordinated behavior. Two projection
neuron types are equivalently intermingled in most striatal space. However,
recent studies revealed two atypical zones in the caudal striatum: the zone in
which D1R-neurons are the minor population (D1R-poor zone) and that in which
D2R-neurons are the minority (D2R-poor zone). It remains obscure as to whether
these imbalanced zones have similar properties on axonal projections and
electrophysiology compared to other striatal regions. Based on morphological
experiments in mice using immunofluorescence, in situ hybridization, and neural
tracing, here, we revealed that the poor zones densely projected to the globus
pallidus and substantia nigra pars lateralis, with a few collaterals in
substantia nigra pars reticulata and compacta. Similar to that in other striatal 
regions, D1R-neurons were the direct pathway neurons. We also showed that the
membrane properties of projection neurons in the poor zones were largely similar 
to those in the conventional striatum using in vitro electrophysiological
recording. In addition, the poor zones existed irrespective of the age or sex of 
mice. We also identified the poor zones in the common marmoset as well as other
rodents. These results suggest that the poor zones in the caudal striatum follow 
the conventional projection patterns irrespective of the imbalanced distribution 
of projection neurons. The poor zones could be an innate structure and common in 
mammals. The unique striatal zones possessing highly restricted projections could
relate to functions different from those of motor-related striatum.

Copyright Â© 2022 Ogata, Kadono, Hirai, Inoue, Takada, Karube and Fujiyama.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2022.809446 
PMCID: PMC8854186
PMID: 35185482 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

