

1000. Front Psychol. 2016 Aug 9;7:1190. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2016.01190. eCollection
2016.

An Observational Investigation of Behavioral Contagion in Common Marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus): Indications for Contagious Scent-Marking.

Massen JJ(1), Å lipogor V(1), Gallup AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna Vienna, Austria.
(2)Psychology Department, State University of New York at Oneonta Oneonta, NY,
USA.

Behavioral contagion is suggested to promote group coordination that may
facilitate activity transitions, increased vigilance, and state matching. Apart
from contagious yawning, however, very little attention has been given to this
phenomenon, and studies on contagious yawning in primates have so far only
focused on Old World monkeys and apes. Here we studied behavioral contagion in
common marmosets, a species for which group coordination and vigilance are
paramount. In particular, we investigated the contagiousness of yawning,
stretching, scratching, tongue protrusion, gnawing, and scent-marking. We coded
these behaviors from 14 adult marmosets, from two different social groups. During
testing sessions, animals were separated into groups of four individuals for
20-min observation periods, across three distinct diurnal time points (morning,
midday, and afternoon) to test for circadian patterns. We observed almost no
yawning (0.12 yawns/h) and very little stretching behavior. For all other
behaviors, which were more common, we found several temporal and inter-individual
differences (i.e., sex, age, dominance status) predictive of these responses.
Moreover, we found that gnawing and scent-marking, which almost always
co-occurred as a fixed-action pattern, were highly temporally clustered within
observation sessions. We discuss the relative absence of yawning in marmosets as 
well as the possible function of contagious scent-marking, and provide
suggestions for future research into the proximate and ultimate functions of
these behaviors in marmosets.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2016.01190 
PMCID: PMC4980586
PMID: 27563294 

