

1004. Primates. 2017 Jan;58(1):169-178. doi: 10.1007/s10329-016-0560-0. Epub 2016 Aug
8.

Polymorphism of the 3'-UTR of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT) in New World
monkeys.

Lucarelli M(1)(2), Visalberghi E(3), Adriani W(4), Addessi E(3), Pierandrei
S(1)(2), Manciocco A(3), Zoratto F(4), Tamellini A(5), Vitale A(4), Laviola G(4),
Alfaro JL(6), Pascale E(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and Hematology, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Rome, Italy.
(2)Pasteur Institute, Cenci Bolognetti Foundation, Sapienza University of Rome,
Rome, Italy.
(3)Istituto di Scienze e Tecnologie della Cognizione, CNR, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Cell Biology and Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanit√†,
Rome, Italy.
(5)Preclinical Technologies Department, Aptuit, Verona, Italy.
(6)Institute for Society and Genetics and Department of Anthropology, University 
of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Medical-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies, University of
Rome "La Sapienza", Corso della Repubblica 79, 04100, Latina, Italy.
esterina.pascale@uniroma1.it.

Genetic polymorphism in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the dopamine
transporter (DAT) gene has been reported in both human and nonhuman primates, and
the variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR) polymorphism has been related to
several neurological and psychiatric disorders. As New World primates have been
employed as models in biomedical research in these fields, in the present study
we assessed genetic variation in the DAT gene in 25 robust capuchin monkeys
(Sapajus spp.) and 39 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Using enzymatic
amplification followed by sequencing of amplified fragments, a VNTR polymorphism 
in the 3'-UTR region of the DAT gene was identified in both robust capuchins and 
common marmosets. The polymorphic tandem repeat of 40-bp basic units is similar
to the human VNTR consensus sequence, with size variants composed of 9, 10, and
11 units in marmosets and 8, 9, 13, and 17 basic units in capuchins. We found
behavioral evidence that carrying the 10-repeat DAT allele promotes flexible
choice and maximization of foraging in marmosets tested in an operant choice
paradigm. Moreover, in an intertemporal choice task, capuchins with longer repeat
variants show less self-controlled choices than capuchins with at least one short
repeat variant. Future research should focus on the relationship between these
DAT polymorphisms, dopamine reuptake via the dopamine transporter, and behavioral
and cognitive variation across New World monkey individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-016-0560-0 
PMID: 27503104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

