

1006. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 8;11(8):e0160116. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0160116.
eCollection 2016.

Survey and Experimental Infection of Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli in Common 
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Hayashimoto N(1), Inoue T(2), Morita H(1), Yasuda M(3), Ueno M(1), Kawai K(3),
Itoh T(2).

Author information: 
(1)ICLAS Monitoring Center, Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 3-25-12
Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Japan.
(2)Marmoset Research Department, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Japan.
(3)Pathological Analysis Center, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, Japan.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are frequently used for biomedical research
but can be afflicted with diarrhea-a serious and potentially lethal health
problem. Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) is thought to be the causative 
pathogen of hemorrhagic typhlocolitis in common marmosets, but the actual
incidence of the disease and the relationship between EPEC and hematochezia are
unknown. This study investigated the prevalence of EPEC infection in common
marmosets and the association between EPEC and hematochezia. A total of 230 stool
or rectal swab samples were collected from 230 common marmosets (98 clinically
healthy, 85 diarrhea, and 47 bloody stool samples) and tested by culture-based
detection and PCR amplification of VT1, VT2, LT, ST, eae, and bfp genes. Healthy 
animals were divided into three groups (n = 4 each for high and low concentration
groups and n = 2 as negative control), and those in the experimental groups were 
perorally inoculated with a 2-ml of suspension of EPEC R811 strain adjusted to 5 
× 108 (high concentration) and 5 × 104 (low concentration) CFU/ ml. Two animals
in each group were examined 3 and 14 days post-inoculation (DPI). EPEC was
detected in 10 of 98 clinically healthy samples (10.2%), 17 of 85 diarrhea
samples (20%), and all 47 bloody stool samples (100%), with a significant
difference detected between presence of EPEC and sample status (P < 0.01). Acute 
hematochezia was observed in all animals of the high-concentration group but not 
in other groups at 1 or 2 DPI. A histopathological examination revealed the
attachment of gram-negative bacilli to epithelial apical membranes and
desquamated epithelial cells in the cecum of animals in the high-concentration
group at 3 DPI. These findings suggest that EPEC is a causative agent of
hemorrhagic typhlocolitis in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0160116 
PMCID: PMC4976964
PMID: 27501144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

