

1010. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):314-327. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22426. Epub 2016 Aug 17.

Neural plasticity following lesions of the primate occipital lobe: The marmoset
as an animal model for studies of blindsight.

Hagan MA(1)(2)(3), Rosa MG(1)(2)(3), Lui LL(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria, 3800, Australia.
(2)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University,
Victoria, 3800, Australia.
(3)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Victoria, 3800, Australia.

For nearly a century it has been observed that some residual visually guided
behavior can persist after damage to the primary visual cortex (V1) in primates. 
The age at which damage to V1 occurs leads to different outcomes, with V1 lesions
in infancy allowing better preservation of visual faculties in comparison with
those incurred in adulthood. While adult V1 lesions may still allow retention of 
some limited visual abilities, these are subconscious-a characteristic that has
led to this form of residual vision being referred to as blindsight. The neural
basis of blindsight has been of great interest to the neuroscience community,
with particular focus on understanding the contributions of the different
subcortical pathways and cortical areas that may underlie this phenomenon. More
recently, research has started to address which forms of neural plasticity occur 
following V1 lesions at different ages, including work using marmoset monkeys.
The relatively rapid postnatal development of this species, allied to the
lissencephalic brains and well-characterized visual cortex provide significant
technical advantages, which allow controlled experiments exploring visual
function in the absence of V1. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol
77: 314-327, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22426 
PMID: 27479288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

