

1012. Neuron. 2016 Aug 17;91(4):905-919. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2016.07.004. Epub 2016
Jul 28.

Distinct Subthreshold Mechanisms Underlying Rate-Coding Principles in Primate
Auditory Cortex.

Gao L(1), Kostlan K(1), Wang Y(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21025, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21025, USA. Electronic
address: xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

A key computational principle for encoding time-varying signals in auditory and
somatosensory cortices of monkeys is the opponent model of rate coding by two
distinct populations of neurons. However, the subthreshold mechanisms that give
rise to this computation have not been revealed. Because the rate-coding neurons 
are only observed in awake conditions, it is especially challenging to probe
their underlying cellular mechanisms. Using a novel intracellular recording
technique that we developed in awake marmosets, we found that the two types of
rate-coding neurons in auditory cortex exhibited distinct subthreshold responses.
While the positive-monotonic neurons (monotonically increasing firing rate with
increasing stimulus repetition frequency) displayed sustained depolarization at
high repetition frequency, the negative-monotonic neurons (opposite trend)
instead exhibited hyperpolarization at high repetition frequency but sustained
depolarization at low repetition frequency. The combination of excitatory and
inhibitory subthreshold events allows the cortex to represent time-varying
signals through these two opponent neuronal populations.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2016.07.004 
PMCID: PMC5292152
PMID: 27478016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

