

1013. Sci Rep. 2016 Aug 1;6:30615. doi: 10.1038/srep30615.

Glutamate neurons are intermixed with midbrain dopamine neurons in nonhuman
primates and humans.

Root DH(1), Wang HL(1), Liu B(1), Barker DJ(1), M칩d L(2), Szocsics P(3), Silva
AC(4), Magl칩czky Z(3), Morales M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuronal Networks Section, Integrative Neuroscience Research Branch, National 
Institute on Drug Abuse, 251 Bayview Blvd Suite 200, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, Szent Borb치la Hospital, H-2800, Tatab치nya, Hungary.
(3)Laboratory of Cerebral Cortex Research, Institute of Experimental Medicine of 
the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, H-1083, Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 49 Convent
Drive Bldg 49 Room 3A72, Bethesda, MD 20892-4478, USA.

The rodent ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC) 
contain dopamine neurons intermixed with glutamate neurons (expressing vesicular 
glutamate transporter 2; VGluT2), which play roles in reward and aversion.
However, identifying the neuronal compositions of the VTA and SNC in higher
mammals has remained challenging. Here, we revealed VGluT2 neurons within the VTA
and SNC of nonhuman primates and humans by simultaneous detection of VGluT2 mRNA 
and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH; for identification of dopamine neurons). We found
that several VTA subdivisions share similar cellular compositions in nonhuman
primates and humans; their rostral linear nuclei have a high prevalence of VGluT2
neurons lacking TH; their paranigral and parabrachial pigmented nuclei have
mostly TH neurons, and their parabrachial pigmented nuclei have dual VGluT2-TH
neurons. Within nonhuman primates and humans SNC, the vast majority of neurons
are TH neurons but VGluT2 neurons were detected in the pars lateralis
subdivision. The demonstration that midbrain dopamine neurons are intermixed with
glutamate or glutamate-dopamine neurons from rodents to humans offers new
opportunities for translational studies towards analyzing the roles that each of 
these neurons play in human behavior and in midbrain-associated illnesses such as
addiction, depression, schizophrenia, and Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1038/srep30615 
PMCID: PMC4967922
PMID: 27477243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

