

1021. Cereb Cortex. 2017 Aug 1;27(8):3890-3905. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhw198.

Frontoparietal Functional Connectivity in the Common Marmoset.

Ghahremani M(1)(2), Hutchison RM(3), Menon RS(1)(2), Everling S(1)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of Western Ontario, Canada.
(2)Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada.
(3)Center for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario, Canada.

In contrast to the well established macaque monkey, little is known about
functional connectivity patterns of common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
that is poised to become the leading transgenic primate model. Here, we used
resting-state ultra-high-field fMRI data collected from anesthetized marmosets
and macaques along with awake human subjects, to examine and compare the brain's 
functional organization, with emphasis on the saccade system. Exploratory
independent component analysis revealed eight resting-state networks in marmosets
that greatly overlapped with corresponding macaque and human networks including a
distributed frontoparietal network. Seed-region analyses of the superior
colliculus (SC) showed homolog areas in macaques and marmosets. The marmoset SC
displayed the strongest frontal functional connectivity with area 8aD at the
border to area 6DR. Functional connectivity of this frontal region revealed a
similar functional connectivity pattern as the frontal eye fields in macaques and
humans. Furthermore, areas 8aD, 8aV, PG,TPO, TE2, and TE3 were identified as
major hubs based on region-wise evaluation of betweeness centrality, suggesting
that these cortical regions make up the functional core of the marmoset brain.
The results support an evolutionarily preserved frontoparietal system and provide
a starting point for invasive neurophysiological studies in the marmoset saccade 
and visual systems.

Â© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhw198 
PMID: 27405331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

