

103. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2021 Sep 1;60(5):568-575. doi:
10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-20-000151. Epub 2021 Jul 19.

Pharmacokinetics of Single-Dose Intramuscular and Subcutaneous Injections of
Buprenorphine in Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Fabian NJ(1), Moody DE(2), Averin O(2), Fang WB(2), Jamiel M(3), Fox JG(3), Burns
MA(3), Haupt JL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts;, Email: nfabian@mit.edu.
(2)Center for Human Toxicology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(3)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Although buprenorphine is the most frequently used opioid analgesic in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), there is limited information in the literature
supporting current dosing regimens used for this species. The purpose of this
study was to determine the pharmacokinetic profiles of single-dose buprenorphine 
HCl administered intramuscularly (IM) at 0.01 mg/kg in 6 adult marmosets (1.8 to 
12.8 y old; 2 males, 4 females) and subcutaneously (SQ) at 0.01 mg/kg in 6 adult 
marmo- sets (2.3-4.4 y old; 3 males, 3 females) by mass spectrometry. Blood was
collected at multiple time points from 0.25 to 24 h from unsedated animals
following a hybrid sparse-serial sampling design. The maximal observed plasma
concentration of buprenorphine (Cmax ) administered IM (2.57 ± 0.95 ng/mL) was
significantly higher than administered SQ (1.47 ± 0.61 ng/mL). However, the time 
to Cmax (Tmax) was not statistically different between routes (17.4 ± 6 min for
IM and 19.8 ± 7.8 min for SQ). The time of the last quantifiable concentration of
buprenorphine was 5 ± 1.67 h for IM compared with 6.33 ± 1.51 h for SQ, which was
not statistically different. The mean buprenorphine plasma concentration-time
curves were used to propose a dosing frequency of 4 to 6 h for buprenorphine at
0.01 mg/kg IM or SQ based on a theoretical therapeutic plasma concentration
threshold of 0.1 ng/mL. Based on the mean pharmacokinetic parameters and
plasma-concentration time curves, both IM and SQ routes of buprenorphine at this 
dose provide a rapid increase in the plasma concentration of buprenorphine above 
the therapeutic threshold, and may be more effective for acute rather than
long-lasting analgesia. Further studies are needed to examine repeated dosing
regimens and the efficacy of buprenorphine in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-20-000151 
PMCID: PMC8603367
PMID: 34281629  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

