

1030. Neuroreport. 2016 Aug 3;27(11):833-6. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000624.

Expression pattern of wolframin, the WFS1 (Wolfram syndrome-1 gene) product, in
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) cochlea.

Suzuki N(1), Hosoya M, Oishi N, Okano H, Fujioka M, Ogawa K.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of aOtorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery bPhysiology, Keio
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Wolfram syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder of the neuroendocrine system,
known as DIDMOAD (Diabetes Insipidus, Diabetes Mellitus, Optic Atrophy and
Deafness) syndrome, and considered an endoplasmic reticulum disease. Patients
show mutations in WFS1, which encodes the 890 amino acid protein wolframin.
Although Wfs1 knockout mice develop diabetes, their hearing level is completely
normal. In this study, we examined the expression of wolframin in the cochlea of 
a nonhuman primate common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to elucidate the
discrepancy in the phenotype between species and the pathophysiology of Wolfram
syndrome-associated deafness. The marmoset cochlea showed wolframin
immunoreactivity not only in the spiral ligament type I fibrocytes, spiral
ganglion neurons, outer hair cells, and supporting cells, but in the stria
vascularis basal cells, where wolframin expression was not observed in the
previous mouse study. Considering the absence of the deafness phenotype in Wfs1
knockout mice, the expression of wolframin in the basal cells of primates may
play an essential role in the maintenance of hearing. Elucidating the function of
wolframin protein in the basal cells of primates would be essential for
understanding the pathogenesis of hearing loss in patients with Wolfram syndrome,
which may lead to the discovery of new therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000624 
PMID: 27341211  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

