

1040. Am J Primatol. 2016 Sep;78(9):961-73. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22566. Epub 2016 Jun 10.

Consistent inter-individual differences in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) 
in Boldness-Shyness, Stress-Activity, and Exploration-Avoidance.

Šlipogor V(1)(2), Gunhold-de Oliveira T(1), Tadić Z(2), Massen JJ(1), Bugnyar
T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Division of Biology, University of Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia.

The study of animal personality, defined as consistent inter-individual
differences in correlated behavioral traits stable throughout time and/or
contexts, has recently become one of the fastest growing areas in animal biology,
with study species ranging from insects to non-human primates. The latter have,
however, only occasionally been tested with standardized experiments. Instead
their personality has usually been assessed using questionnaires. Therefore, this
study aimed to test 21 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) living in three
family groups, in five different experiments, and their corresponding controls.
We found that behavioral differences between our animals were not only consistent
over time, but also across different contexts. Moreover, the consistent behaviors
formed a construct of four major non-social personality components:
Boldness-Shyness in Foraging, Boldness-Shyness in Predation, Stress-Activity, and
Exploration-Avoidance. We found no sex or age differences in these components,
but our results did reveal differences in Exploration-Avoidance between the three
family groups. As social environment can have a large influence on behavior of
individuals, our results may suggest group-level similarity in personality (i.e.,
"group personality") in common marmosets, a species living in highly cohesive
social groups. Am. J. Primatol. 78:961-973, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22566 
PMCID: PMC4996331
PMID: 27286098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

