

1044. J Neurophysiol. 2016 Aug 1;116(2):753-64. doi: 10.1152/jn.00136.2016. Epub 2016
Jun 1.

Arousal dynamics drive vocal production in marmoset monkeys.

Borjon JI(1), Takahashi DY(1), Cervantes DC(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute and Department of Psychology, Princeton
University, Princeton New Jersey.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute and Department of Psychology, Princeton
University, Princeton New Jersey asifg@princeton.edu.

Vocal production is the result of interacting cognitive and autonomic processes. 
Despite claims that changes in one interoceptive state (arousal) govern primate
vocalizations, we know very little about how it influences their likelihood and
timing. In this study we investigated the role of arousal during naturally
occurring vocal production in marmoset monkeys. Throughout each session,
naturally occurring contact calls are produced more quickly, and with greater
probability, during higher levels of arousal, as measured by heart rate. On
average, we observed a steady increase in heart rate 23 s before the production
of a call. Following call production, there is a sharp and steep cardiac
deceleration lasting ∼8 s. The dynamics of cardiac fluctuations around a
vocalization cannot be completely predicted by the animal's respiration or
movement. Moreover, the timing of vocal production was tightly correlated to the 
phase of a 0.1-Hz autonomic nervous system rhythm known as the Mayer wave.
Finally, a compilation of the state space of arousal dynamics during vocalization
illustrated that perturbations to the resting state space increase the likelihood
of a call occurring. Together, these data suggest that arousal dynamics are
critical for spontaneous primate vocal production, not only as a robust predictor
of the likelihood of vocal onset but also as scaffolding on which behavior can
unfold.

Copyright © 2016 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00136.2016 
PMCID: PMC6208312
PMID: 27250909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

