

1053. Cereb Cortex. 2016 Jul;26(7):3273-84. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhw067. Epub 2016 Apr
29.

Role of the Perigenual Anterior Cingulate and Orbitofrontal Cortex in Contingency
Learning in the Marmoset.

Jackson SA(1), Horst NK(1), Pears A(2), Robbins TW(1), Roberts AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.

Two learning mechanisms contribute to decision-making: goal-directed actions and 
the "habit" system, by which action-outcome and stimulus-response associations
are formed, respectively. Rodent lesion studies and human neuroimaging have
implicated both the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the orbitofrontal cortex 
(OFC) in the neural basis of contingency learning, a critical component of
goal-directed actions, though some published findings are conflicting. We sought 
to reconcile the existing literature by comparing the effects of excitotoxic
lesions of the perigenual anterior cingulate cortex (pgACC), a region of the
mPFC, and OFC on contingency learning in the marmoset monkey using a
touchscreen-based paradigm, in which the contingent relationship between one of a
pair of actions and its outcome was degraded selectively. Both the pgACC and OFC 
lesion groups were insensitive to the contingency degradation, whereas the
control group demonstrated selectively higher performance of the nondegraded
action when compared with the degraded action. These findings suggest the pgACC
and OFC are both necessary for normal contingency learning and therefore
goal-directed behavior.

Â© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhw067 
PMCID: PMC4898677
PMID: 27130662  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

