

1057. Nan Fang Yi Ke Da Xue Xue Bao. 2016 Apr;36(4):582-7.

[Detection of neutralizing antibody to human adenovirus type 5 in marmosets].

[Article in Chinese]

Sun YC(1), Li TT, Wang YL, Zhang L, Zhu H, Li CY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou
510515, China. E-mail: 759921681@qq.com.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a recombinant human adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) expressing
luciferase and GFP reporter gene and detect neutralizing antibodies against
adenovirus type 5 in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) to provide basic
laboratory data for evaluating adenovirus vaccines.
METHODS: Luciferase and GFP reporter genes from plasmid pHAGE-CMV-GFP were
inserted into pDC315 to construct the recombinant adenovirus shutter plasmid
pDC315-Luc-GFP. The shutter plasmid was co-transduced with pBHGlox(delta)E1,3Cre 
in 293A cell line to package the recombinant adenovirus rAd5/Luc/GFP. Three
rounds of plaque formation experiment were performed to select the monoclonal
adenovirus followed by purification with cesium chloride density gradient
centrifugation and virus titration with TCID50 method. Chemiluminescence assay
and flow cytometry were employed to detect the neutralizing antibody levels in 14
common marmosets.
RESULTS: The shuttle plasmid pDC315-Luc-GFP was successfully constructed and the 
recombinant adenovirus rAd5/Luc/GFP was packaged with a the titer reaching
6.9Ã—10(11.5) PFU/mL. In the 14 marmosets, chemiluminescence assay identified 4
(28.6%) marmosets that were positive for Ad5-neutralizing antibodies, including 2
with a antibody titer of 1/16 and another 2 with a titer of 1/32; flow cytomery
detected Ad5-neutralizing antibodies in 3 marmosets at the titer of 1/16.
CONCLUSION: Chemiluminescence assay is a simple, sensitive, and accurate modality
for detecting Ad5-neutralizing antibodies. Common marmosets have a very low
positivity rate for Ad5-neutralizing antibodies and are therefore promising
models for studying adenovirus-based vaccines and therapies.


PMID: 27113192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

