

1061. J Comp Neurol. 2017 Apr 15;525(6):1442-1458. doi: 10.1002/cne.24021. Epub 2016
May 6.

In situ hybridization analyses of claustrum-enriched genes in marmosets.

Watakabe A.

The claustrum/endopiriform nucleus is a unique structure that sits between the
striatum and the cerebral cortex. Recent genome-wide mapping of gene expression
in mice identified various genes concentrated in this structure, suggesting a
requirement for a special set of genes for its function. In situ hybridization
histochemistry was performed for such "claustrum-enriched" genes in the marmoset 
brain. In marmosets, nurr1 and netrinG2 genes exhibited highly concentrated
expression in the claustrum and endopiriform nucleus, as well as in a
subpopulation of layer 6 neurons across the entire cortex, consistent with their 
expression patterns as described in macaques. Cux2 showed enriched expression in 
the upper layers (layers 2-4) and the claustrum/endopiriform nucleus. GNG2 was
expressed strongly in the claustrum/endopiriform nucleus, but was abundant across
cortical areas in a ventral high-dorsal low gradient. Latexin was detected in the
claustrum and dorsal endopiriform nucleus, but not in cortical regions. GNB4 and 
Tmem163 genes were both concentrated in the claustrum/endopiriform nucleus, as
reported in mice, but their cortical expression in the marmoset differed from the
mouse pattern. Thus, the gene set required for the claustrum appears to be
broadly conserved across species, despite various differences that suggest
species-specific differentiation of brain architecture. J. Comp. Neurol.
525:1442-1458, 2017. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24021 
PMID: 27098836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

