

1062. Drug Metab Dispos. 2016 Jul;44(7):911-5. doi: 10.1124/dmd.116.070383. Epub 2016
Apr 20.

Individual Differences in Metabolic Clearance of S-Warfarin Efficiently Mediated 
by Polymorphic Marmoset Cytochrome P450 2C19 in Livers.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Kawano M(1), Shimizu M(1), Toda A(1), Utoh
M(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.K., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U., A.T., M.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and 
Center of Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio
University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.K., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U., A.T., M.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and 
Center of Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio
University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Erratum in
    Drug Metab Dispos. 2020 Aug;48(8):723.

Marmoset cytochrome P450 2C19, highly homologous to human P450 2C9 and 2C19, has 
been identified in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a nonhuman primate
species used in drug metabolism studies. Although genetic variants in human and
macaque P450 2C genes account for the interindividual variability in drug
metabolism, genetic variants have not been investigated in the marmoset P450 2C19
In this study, sequencing of P450 2C19 in 24 marmosets identified three variants 
p.[(Phe7Leu; Ser254Leu; Ile469Thr)], which showed substantially reduced metabolic
capacity of S-warfarin compared with the wild-type group in vivo and in vitro.
Although mean plasma concentrations of R-warfarin in marmosets determined after
chiral separation were similar between the homozygous mutant and wild-type groups
up to 24 hours after the intravenous and oral administrations of racemic
warfarin, S-warfarin depletion from plasma was significantly faster in the three 
wild-type marmosets compared with the three homozygous mutant marmosets. These
variants, cosegregating in the marmosets analyzed, influenced metabolic
activities in 18 marmoset liver microsomes because the homozygotes and
heterozygotes showed significantly reduced catalytic activities in liver
microsomes toward S-warfarin 7-hydroxylation compared with the wild-type group.
Kinetic analysis for S-warfarin 7-hydroxylation indicated that the recombinant
P450 2C19 Ser254Leu variant would change the metabolic capacity. These results
indicated that the interindividual variability of P450 2C-dependent drug
metabolism such as S-warfarin clearance is at least partly accounted for by P450 
2C19 variants in marmosets, suggesting that polymorphic P450 2C-dependent
catalytic functions are relatively similar between marmosets and humans.

Copyright Â© 2016 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.116.070383 
PMID: 27098744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

