

1063. J Neurosci. 2016 Apr 20;36(16):4579-90. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4563-15.2016.

Rapid Adaptation Induces Persistent Biases in Population Codes for Visual Motion.

Zavitz E(1), Yu HH(2), Rowe EG(3), Rosa MG(2), Price NS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, and ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash
University Node, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia
elizabeth.zavitz@monash.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology, Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery
Institute, and ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash
University Node, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.
(3)Department of Physiology.

Each visual experience changes the neural response to subsequent stimuli. If the 
brain is unable to incorporate these encoding changes, the decoding, or
perception, of subsequent stimuli is biased. Although the phenomenon of
adaptation pervades the nervous system, its effects have been studied mainly in
isolation, based on neuronal encoding changes induced by an isolated, prolonged
stimulus. To understand how adaptation-induced biases arise and persist under
continuous, naturalistic stimulation, we simultaneously recorded the responses of
up to 61 neurons in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) middle temporal area to a
sequence of directions that changed every 500 ms. We found that
direction-specific adaptation following only 0.5 s of stimulation strongly
affected encoding for up to 2 s by reducing both the gain and the spike count
correlations between pairs of neurons with preferred directions close to the
adapting direction. In addition, smaller changes in bandwidth and preferred
direction were observed in some animals. Decoding individual trials of
adaptation-affected activity in simultaneously recorded neurons predicted
repulsive biases that are consistent with the direction aftereffect.
Surprisingly, removing spike count correlations by trial shuffling did not impact
decoding performance or bias. When adaptation had the largest effect on encoding,
the decoder made the most errors. This suggests that neural and perceptual
repulsion is not a mechanism to enhance perceptual performance but is instead a
necessary consequence of optimizing neural encoding for the identification of a
wide range of stimulus properties in diverse temporal contexts.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT: Although perception depends upon decoding the pattern of activity
across a neuronal population, the encoding properties of individual neurons are
unreliable: a single neuron's response to repetitions of the same stimulus is
variable, and depends on both its spatial and temporal context. In this
manuscript, we describe the complete cascade of adaptation-induced effects in
sensory encoding and show how they predict population decoding errors consistent 
with perceptual biases. We measure the time course of adaptation-induced changes 
to the response properties of neurons in isolation, and to the correlation
structure across pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons. These results provide 
novel insight into how and for how long adaptation affects the neural code,
particularly during continuous, naturalistic vision.

Copyright Â© 2016 the authors 0270-6474/16/364579-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4563-15.2016 
PMCID: PMC6601831
PMID: 27098699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

