

1067. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2016 May 5;371(1693). pii: 20150370. doi:
10.1098/rstb.2015.0370.

Early development of turn-taking with parents shapes vocal acoustics in infant
marmoset monkeys.

Takahashi DY(1), Fenley AR(1), Ghazanfar AA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
NJ 08544, USA asifg@princeton.edu.

In humans, vocal turn-taking is a ubiquitous form of social interaction. It is a 
communication system that exhibits the properties of a dynamical system: two
individuals become coupled to each other via acoustic exchanges and mutually
affect each other. Human turn-taking develops during the first year of life. We
investigated the development of vocal turn-taking in infant marmoset monkeys, a
New World species whose adult vocal behaviour exhibits the same universal
features of human turn-taking. We find that marmoset infants undergo the same
trajectory of change for vocal turn-taking as humans, and do so during the same
life-history stage. Our data show that turn-taking by marmoset infants depends on
the development of self-monitoring, and that contingent parental calls elicit
more mature-sounding calls from infants. As in humans, there was no evidence that
parental feedback affects the rate of turn-taking maturation. We conclude that
vocal turn-taking by marmoset monkeys and humans is an instance of convergent
evolution, possibly as a result of pressures on both species to adopt a
cooperative breeding strategy and increase volubility.

Â© 2016 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2015.0370 
PMCID: PMC4843608
PMID: 27069047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

