

1070. Front Neuroanat. 2016 Mar 22;10:23. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2016.00023. eCollection
2016.

Hierarchical Cluster Analysis of Three-Dimensional Reconstructions of Unbiased
Sampled Microglia Shows not Continuous Morphological Changes from Stage 1 to 2
after Multiple Dengue Infections in Callithrix penicillata.

Diniz DG(1), Silva GO(2), Naves TB(2), Fernandes TN(3), Araújo SC(4), Diniz
JA(4), de Farias LH(5), Sosthenes MC(2), Diniz CG(6), Anthony DC(7), da Costa
Vasconcelos PF(8), Picanço Diniz CW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Investigações em Neurodegeneração e Infecção, Instituto de
Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Pará, Hospital Universitário João de
Barros BarretoBelém, Brasil; Experimental Neuropathology Laboratory, Department
of Pharmacology, University of OxfordOxford, UK.
(2)Laboratório de Investigações em Neurodegeneração e Infecção, Instituto de
Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Pará, Hospital Universitário João de
Barros Barreto Belém, Brasil.
(3)Curso de Graduação em Biologia, Universidade da Amazônia Belém, Brasil.
(4)Departamento de Microscopia Eletrônica, Instituto Evandro Chagas Belém,
Brasil.
(5)Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Pará Belém, Brasil.
(6)Laboratório de Biologia Molecular e Ambiental, Instituto Federal de Educação
Ciência e Tecnologia do Pará, Campus de Bragança, Bragança Pará, Brasil.
(7)Experimental Neuropathology Laboratory, Department of Pharmacology, University
of Oxford Oxford, UK.
(8)Departamento de Arbovirologia e Febres Hemorrágicas, Instituto Evandro Chagas 
Ananindeua, Brasil.

It is known that microglial morphology and function are related, but few studies 
have explored the subtleties of microglial morphological changes in response to
specific pathogens. In the present report we quantitated microglia morphological 
changes in a monkey model of dengue disease with virus CNS invasion. To mimic
multiple infections that usually occur in endemic areas, where higher dengue
infection incidence and abundant mosquito vectors carrying different serotypes
coexist, subjects received once a week subcutaneous injections of DENV3 (genotype
III)-infected culture supernatant followed 24 h later by an injection of
anti-DENV2 antibody. Control animals received either weekly anti-DENV2
antibodies, or no injections. Brain sections were immunolabeled for DENV3
antigens and IBA-1. Random and systematic microglial samples were taken from the 
polymorphic layer of dentate gyrus for 3-D reconstructions, where we found
intense immunostaining for TNFα and DENV3 virus antigens. We submitted all bi- or
multimodal morphological parameters of microglia to hierarchical cluster analysis
and found two major morphological phenotypes designated types I and II. Compared 
to type I (stage 1), type II microglia were more complex; displaying higher
number of nodes, processes and trees and larger surface area and volumes (stage
2). Type II microglia were found only in infected monkeys, whereas type I
microglia was found in both control and infected subjects. Hierarchical cluster
analysis of morphological parameters of 3-D reconstructions of random and
systematic selected samples in control and ADE dengue infected monkeys suggests
that microglia morphological changes from stage 1 to stage 2 may not be
continuous.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2016.00023 
PMCID: PMC4801861
PMID: 27047345 

