

1071. Drug Metab Dispos. 2016 Jun;44(6):833-41. doi: 10.1124/dmd.116.070367. Epub 2016 
Apr 4.

A New Marmoset P450 4F12 Enzyme Expressed in Small Intestines and Livers
Efficiently Metabolizes Antihistaminic Drug Ebastine.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Yuki Y(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., Y.Y., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., Y.Y., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are attracting attention as animal models
in preclinical studies for drug development. However, cytochrome P450s (P450s),
major drug-metabolizing enzymes, have not been fully identified and characterized
in marmosets. In this study, based on the four novel P450 4F genes found on the
marmoset genome, we successfully isolated P450 4F2, 4F3B, 4F11, and 4F12 cDNAs in
marmoset livers. Deduced amino acid sequences of the four marmoset P450 4F forms 
exhibited high sequence identities (87%-93%) to the human and cynomolgus monkey
P450 4F homologs. Marmoset P450 4F3B and 4F11 mRNAs were predominantly expressed 
in livers, whereas marmoset P450 4F2 and 4F12 mRNAs were highly expressed in
small intestines and livers. Four marmoset P450 4F proteins heterologously
expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed the ω-hydroxylation of leukotriene B4 In 
addition, marmoset P450 4F12 effectively catalyzed the hydroxylation of
antiallergy drug ebastine, a human P450 2J/4F probe substrate. Ebastine
hydroxylation activities by small intestine and liver microsomes from marmosets
and cynomolgus monkeys showed greatly higher values than those of humans.
Ebastine hydroxylation activities by marmoset and cynomolgus monkey small
intestine microsomes were inhibited (approximately 60%) by anti-P450 4F
antibodies, unlike human small intestine microsomes, suggesting that contribution
of P450 4F enzymes for ebastine hydroxylation in the small intestine might be
different between marmosets/cynomolgus monkeys and humans. These results
indicated that marmoset P450 4F2, 4F3B, 4F11, and 4F12 were expressed in livers
and/or small intestines and were functional in the metabolism of endogenous and
exogenous compounds, similar to those of cynomolgus monkeys and humans.

Copyright © 2016 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.116.070367 
PMID: 27044800  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

