

1072. J Comp Neurol. 2017 Apr 15;525(6):1421-1441. doi: 10.1002/cne.24009. Epub 2016
May 19.

Topography of claustrum and insula projections to medial prefrontal and anterior 
cingulate cortices of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Reser DH(1)(2), Majka P(1)(2)(3), Snell S(1), Chan JM(1), Watkins K(1), Worthy
K(1), Quiroga MD(1), Rosa MG(1)(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.
(2)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Research Institute, Monash University,
Clayton, Victoria, 3800, Australia.
(3)Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology, Polish Academy of Sciences, 02-093, 
Warsaw, Poland.
(4)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University
Node, Clayton, Victoria, 3800, Australia.

The claustrum has been the subject of intense research interest in recent years, 
driven in large part by its extensive connections with various regions of the
cerebral cortex and by hypotheses surrounding its possible role in multimodal
sensory and/or sensory-emotional integration. Here we employed neuroanatomical
tracers to map projections from the claustrum-insular region to the medial
prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex of the common marmoset (Callithrx
jacchus). These areas were selected based on their identification as "hub" areas 
of the default mode and cortical salience networks, respectively. Microinjections
of fluorescent tracers, along with gold-nanoparticle-conjugated cholera toxin
B-subunit and biotinylated dextran amine, were placed in subdivisions of the
anterior cingulate area 24b/c and in medial prefrontal areas 32 and 32V. The
resulting distribution of transported label showed rostral-caudal and
dorsal-ventral topographic arrangement of claustrum connections and clear
rostral-caudal topography of insular projections. Medial prefrontal connections
were restricted mainly to a ventromedial strip located in the rostral half of the
claustrum, with a second, smaller patch of cells in the caudal, ventrolateral
portion. In contrast, injections into area 24 yielded dense, widespread
connections from the dorsal claustrum, extending along its entire rostral-caudal 
length. Projections from the "classical" agranular, disgranular, and granular
insular areas were sparse or nonexistent in areas 32 and 32V, with progressively 
increasing connections observed in more caudal tracer injections (i.e., in
subdivisions of area 24). Transported label was observed in rostral peri-insular 
areas orbital periallocortex, orbital proisocortex, and insular proisocortex
following all prefrontal injections. These data provide a structural connectivity
foundation for interpretation of functional imaging studies, which often indicate
activity in the "anterior insula" that may arise, in part, from claustrum and/or 
peri-insular projections to the anterior cingulate and medial prefrontal
cortices. J. Comp. Neurol. 525:1421-1441, 2017. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24009 
PMID: 27038224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

