

1075. Anim Cogn. 2016 Jul;19(4):813-8. doi: 10.1007/s10071-016-0980-7. Epub 2016 Mar
28.

Evaluation of third-party reciprocity by squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) and 
the question of mechanisms.

Anderson JR(1), Bucher B(2), Kuroshima H(2), Fujita K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Letters,
Yoshida-honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto, 606- 8501, Japan.
j.r.anderson@psy.bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Psychology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Letters,
Yoshida-honmachi, Sakyo, Kyoto, 606- 8501, Japan.

Social evaluation during third-party interactions emerges early in human
ontogeny, and it has been shown in adult capuchin monkeys who witness violations 
of reciprocity in object exchanges: Monkeys were less inclined to accept food
from humans who refused to reciprocate with another human. A recent study
reporting similar evidence in marmoset monkeys raised the possibility that such
evaluations might be based on species' inherent cooperativeness. We tested a
species not renowned for cooperativeness-squirrel monkeys-using the procedure
used with marmosets and found a similar result. This finding rules out any
crucial role for cooperative tendencies in monkeys' responses to unfair
exchanges. We then tested squirrel monkeys using procedures more similar to those
used in the original study with capuchins. Squirrel monkeys again accepted food
less frequently from non-reciprocators, but unlike capuchins, they also strongly 
preferred reciprocators. We conclude that neither squirrel monkeys nor marmoset
monkeys engaged in emotional bookkeeping of the type that probably underlies
social evaluation in capuchin monkeys; instead, they employed one or more simple 
behavioral rules. Further comparative studies are required to clarify the
mechanisms underlying social evaluation processes across species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-016-0980-7 
PMID: 27021433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

