

1077. Exp Eye Res. 2016 May;146:196-205. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.03.020. Epub 2016 Mar
25.

Edaravone is a free radical scavenger that protects against laser-induced
choroidal neovascularization in mice and common marmosets.

Masuda T(1), Shimazawa M(2), Takata S(1), Nakamura S(1), Tsuruma K(1), Hara H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, Gifu, Japan.
(2)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, Gifu, Japan. Electronic address:
shimazawa@gifu-pu.ac.jp.

Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) is a main characteristic in exudative type of 
age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Our study aimed to evaluate the effects
of edaravone, a free radical scavenger on laser-induced CNV. CNV was induced by
laser photocoagulation to the subretinal choroidal area of mice and common
marmosets. Edaravone was administered either intraperitoneally twice a day for 2 
weeks or intravenously just once after laser photocoagulation. The effects of
edaravone on laser-induced CNV were evaluated by fundus fluorescein angiography, 
CNV area measurements, and the expression of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE) modified
proteins, a marker of oxidative stress. Furthermore, the effects of edaravone on 
the production of H2O2-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-induced cell proliferation were evaluated using 
human retinal pigment epithelium cells (ARPE-19) and human retinal microvascular 
endothelial cells, respectively. CNV areas in the edaravone-treated group were
significantly smaller in mice and common marmosets. The expression of 4-HNE
modified proteins was upregulated 3 h after laser photocoagulation, and
intravenously administered edaravone decreased it. In in vitro studies, edaravone
inhibited H2O2-induced ROS production and VEGF-induced cell proliferation. These 
findings suggest that edaravone may protect against laser-induced CNV by
inhibiting oxidative stress and endothelial cell proliferation.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2016.03.020 
PMID: 27018216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

