

1079. Neurodegener Dis. 2016;16(5-6):293-303. doi: 10.1159/000442574. Epub 2016 Mar 22.

Individual and Familial Susceptibility to MPTP in a Common Marmoset Model for
Parkinson's Disease.

Franke SK(1), van Kesteren RE, Hofman S, Wubben JA, Smit AB, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology, Center for Neurogenomics
and Cognitive Research, Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: Insight into susceptibility mechanisms underlying Parkinson's
disease (PD) would aid the understanding of disease etiology, enable target
finding and benefit the development of more refined disease-modifying strategies.
METHODS: We used intermittent low-dose MPTP (0.5 mg/kg/week) injections in
marmosets and measured multiple behavioral and neurochemical parameters.
Genetically diverse monkeys from different breeding families were selected to
investigate inter- and intrafamily differences in susceptibility to MPTP
treatment.
RESULTS: We show that such differences exist in clinical signs, in particular
nonmotor PD-related behaviors, and that they are accompanied by differences in
neurotransmitter levels. In line with the contribution of a genetic component,
different susceptibility phenotypes could be traced back through genealogy to
individuals of the different families.
CONCLUSION: Our findings show that low-dose MPTP treatment in marmosets
represents a clinically relevant PD model, with a window of opportunity to
examine the onset of the disease, allowing the detection of individual
variability in disease susceptibility, which may be of relevance for the
diagnosis and treatment of PD in humans.

Â© 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000442574 
PMID: 26999593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

