

1086. Behav Brain Res. 2016 May 15;305:212-7. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2016.02.031. Epub 2016
Mar 9.

The atypical antipsychotic blonanserin reverses (+)-PD-128907- and
ketamine-induced deficit in executive function in common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Enomoto T(2), Murai T(1), Nakako T(1), Iwamura Y(1), Kiyoshi A(1),
Matsumoto K(1), Matsumoto A(1), Ikejiri M(1), Nakayama T(1), Ogi Y(1), Ikeda
K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab, Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan.
(2)Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Ltd.,
33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan.
(3)Ikeda Lab, Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan. Electronic address:
kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Antagonism of the dopamine D3 receptor is considered a promising strategy for the
treatment of cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia. We have
previously reported that the atypical antipsychotic blonanserin, a dopamine D2/D3
and serotonin 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, highly occupies dopamine D3 receptors
at its antipsychotic dose range in rats. In the present study, we evaluated the
effects of blonanserin on executive function in common marmosets using the object
retrieval with detour (ORD) task. The dopamine D3 receptor-preferring agonist
(+)-PD-128907 at 1mg/kg decreased success rate in the difficult trial, but not in
the easy trial. Since the difference between the two trials is only cognitive
demand, our findings indicate that excess activation of dopamine D3 receptors
impairs executive function in common marmosets. Blonanserin at 0.1mg/kg reversed 
the decrease in success rate induced by (+)-PD-128907 in the difficult trial.
This finding indicates that blonanserin has beneficial effect on executive
function deficit induced by activation of the dopamine D3 receptor in common
marmosets. Next, and based on the glutamatergic hypothesis of schizophrenia, the 
common marmosets were treated with the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor
antagonist ketamine. Ketamine at sub-anesthetic doses decreased success rate in
the difficult trial, but not in the easy trial. Blonanserin at 0.1mg/kg reversed 
the decrease in success rate induced by ketamine in the difficult trial. The
findings of this study suggest that blonanserin might have beneficial effect on
executive dysfunction in patients with schizophrenia.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2016.02.031 
PMID: 26970575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

