

1088. Primates. 2016 Jul;57(3):421-31. doi: 10.1007/s10329-016-0526-2. Epub 2016 Mar 5.

Physiological and behavioral responses to routine procedures in captive common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

de Menezes Galvão AC(1), Ferreira RG(1), de Sousa MB(1), Galvão-Coelho NL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Psychobiology Graduation Program, Federal University
of Rio Grande do Norte, Caixa Postal, 1511, Natal, RN, 59078-970, Brazil.
(2)Department of Physiology, Psychobiology Graduation Program, Federal University
of Rio Grande do Norte, Caixa Postal, 1511, Natal, RN, 59078-970, Brazil.
galvaonic@hotmail.com.

The effect of routine captive procedures on the welfare of species used as
experimental models in biomedical research is of great interest, since stress may
alter the generalization and interpretation of results. This study investigated
behavioral and endocrine (fecal cortisol) reactivity patterns in common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus) adult males (N = 10) and females (N = 9) subjected to three 
types of routine procedures in captivity: (1) moving to a same-sized cage (P1),
to a smaller cage (P2), and (2) first-time pair formation (P3). Sexually
dimorphic cortisol responses were detected in animals submitted to a physical
environmental stressor (cage change). Females showed an increased response
throughout P1, in relation to baseline (BP) cortisol, and a trend during P2.
Males increased cortisol only during P2. On the other hand, males and females
showed a similar endocrine response when management involved social challenge
(pair formation), with both sexes increasing cortisol levels, but females
exhibited a more intense and longer-lasting cortisol increase. Males and females 
exhibited similar behavioral responses to cage change, except for autogrooming,
with males decreasing this behavior in P1. Only females demonstrated a
significantly higher increase in piloerection frequency than that of males during
the pair formation phase. These endocrine and behavioral changes must be taken
into account when interpreting research data that involve these types of
procedures. Further studies on the impacts of routine colony management are
required to devise and include protocols in official husbandry guidelines.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-016-0526-2 
PMID: 26946459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

