

1091. Genome Res. 2016 May;26(5):649-59. doi: 10.1101/gr.199075.115. Epub 2016 Feb 25.

Discovery of a new repeat family in the Callithrix jacchus genome.

Konkel MK(1), Ullmer B(2), Arceneaux EL(1), Sanampudi S(1), Brantley SA(1),
Hubley R(3), Smit AF(3), Batzer MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
Louisiana 70803, USA;
(2)School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Center for Computation 
and Technology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803, USA;
(3)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, Washington 98109-5263, USA.

We identified a novel repeat family, termed Platy-1, in the Callithrix jacchus
(common marmoset) genome that arose around the time of the divergence of
platyrrhines and catarrhines and established itself as a repeat family in New
World monkeys (NWMs). A full-length Platy-1 element is ∼100 bp in length, making 
it the shortest known short interspersed element (SINE) in primates, and harbors 
features characteristic of non-LTR retrotransposons. We identified 2268
full-length Platy-1 elements across 62 subfamilies in the common marmoset genome.
Our subfamily reconstruction and phylogenetic analyses support Platy-1
propagation throughout the evolution of NWMs in the lineage leading to C. jacchus
Platy-1 appears to have reached its amplification peak in the common ancestor of 
current day marmosets and has since moderately declined. However, identification 
of more than 200 Platy-1 elements identical to their respective consensus
sequence, and the presence of polymorphic elements within common marmoset
populations, suggests ongoing retrotransposition activity. Platy-1, a SINE,
appears to have originated from an Alu element, and hence is likely derived from 
7SL RNA. Our analyses illustrate the birth of a new repeat family and its
propagation dynamics in the lineage leading to the common marmoset over the last 
40 million years.

© 2016 Konkel et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.199075.115 
PMCID: PMC4864456
PMID: 26916108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

