

1093. Sci Rep. 2016 Feb 26;6:22250. doi: 10.1038/srep22250.

Distinct Expression Patterns Of Causative Genes Responsible For Hereditary
Progressive Hearing Loss In Non-Human Primate Cochlea.

Hosoya M(1), Fujioka M(1), Ogawa K(1), Okano H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Keio University School of Medicine, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head
and Neck Surgery, 35 Shinanomachi Shinjyuku-ku Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan.
(2)Keio University School of Medicine, Department of Physiology, 35 Shinanomachi 
Shinjyuku-ku Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan.

Hearing impairment is the most frequent sensory deficit in humans. Deafness
genes, which harbor pathogenic mutations that have been identified in families
with hereditary hearing loss, are commonly expressed in the auditory end organ or
the cochlea and may contribute to normal hearing function, yet some of the mouse 
models carrying these mutations fail to recapitulate the hearing loss phenotype. 
In this study, we find that distinct expression patterns of those deafness genes 
in the cochlea of a non-human primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). 
We examined 20 genes whose expression in the cochlea has already been reported.
The deafness genes GJB3, CRYM, GRHL2, DFNA5, and ATP6B1 were expressed in
marmoset cochleae in patterns different from those in mouse cochleae. Of note,
all those genes are causative for progressive hearing loss in humans, but not in 
mice. The other tested genes, including the deafness gene COCH, in which mutation
recapitulates deafness in mice, were expressed in a similar manner in both
species. The result suggests that the discrepancy in the expression between
rodents and primates may account for the phenotypic difference. This limitation
of the rodent models can be bypassed by using non-human primate models such as
the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1038/srep22250 
PMCID: PMC4768099
PMID: 26915689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

