

1103. J Vet Med Sci. 2016 Jun 1;78(5):837-43. doi: 10.1292/jvms.15-0675. Epub 2016 Feb 
12.

Serum matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) as a biochemical marker for wasting
marmoset syndrome.

Yoshimoto T(1), Niimi K, Takahashi E.

Author information: 
(1)Research Resources Center, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, 
Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Use of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a non-human primate
experimental animal has increased in recent years. Although wasting marmoset
syndrome (WMS) is one of the biggest problems in captive marmoset colonies, the
molecular mechanisms, biochemical markers for accurate diagnosis and a reliable
treatment remain unknown. In this study, as a first step to finding biochemical
marker(s) for the accurate diagnosis of WMS, we conducted blood cell counts,
including hematocrit, hemoglobin and platelets, and examined serum chemistry
values, including albumin, calcium and levels of serum matrix metalloproteinase 9
(MMP9), using a colony of marmosets with and without weight loss. MMP9 is thought
to be an enzyme responsible for the degradation of extracellular matrix
components and participates in the pathogenesis of inflammatory conditions, such 
as human and murine inflammatory bowel disease, which, like WMS, are
characterized histologically by inflammatory cell infiltrations in the
intestines. The values of hematocrit and hemoglobin and levels of serum albumin
and calcium in the WMS group were significantly decreased versus the control
group. The platelet values and serum MMP9 concentrations were increased
significantly in the WMS group compared with the control group. MMP9 could be a
new and useful marker for the diagnosis of WMS in addition to hematocrit,
hemoglobin, serum albumin and calcium. Our results also indicate that MMP9 could 
be a useful molecular candidate for treatment.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.15-0675 
PMCID: PMC4905840
PMID: 26876041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

