

1104. Vet Pathol. 2016 May;53(3):521-31. doi: 10.1177/0300985815620845. Epub 2016 Feb
11.

A Comparative Review of Animal Models of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
Coronavirus Infection.

Baseler L(1), de Wit E(2), Feldmann H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA
Department of Comparative Pathobiology, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN,
USA Department of Veterinary Medicine and Surgery, University of Texas MD
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT,
USA.
(3)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Hamilton, MT, USA
feldmannh@niaid.nih.gov.

Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was initially isolated
from a Saudi Arabian man with fatal pneumonia. Since the original case in 2012,
MERS-CoV infections have been reported in >1500 humans, and the case fatality
rate is currently 35%. This lineage C betacoronavirus has been reported to cause 
a wide range of disease severity in humans, ranging from asymptomatic to
progressive fatal pneumonia that may be accompanied by renal or multiorgan
failure. Although the clinical presentation of human MERS-CoV infection has been 
documented, many facets of this emerging disease are still unknown and could be
studied with animal models. Several animal models of MERS-CoV have been
developed, including New Zealand white rabbits, transduced or transgenic mice
that express human dipeptidyl peptidase 4, rhesus macaques, and common marmosets.
This review provides an overview of the current state of knowledge on human
MERS-CoV infections, the probable origin of MERS-CoV, and the available animal
models of MERS-CoV infection. Evaluation of the benefits and limitations of these
models will aid in appropriate model selection for studying viral pathogenesis
and transmission, as well as for testing vaccines and antivirals against
MERS-CoV.

Â© The Author(s) 2016.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985815620845 
PMID: 26869154  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

