

1106. Anim Cogn. 2016 May;19(3):673-7. doi: 10.1007/s10071-016-0959-4. Epub 2016 Feb 3.

Touchscreen assays of learning, response inhibition, and motivation in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kangas BD(1), Bergman J(2), Coyle JT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, McLean Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA, 02478, 
USA. bkangas@mclean.harvard.edu.
(2)Harvard Medical School, McLean Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA, 02478, 
USA.

Recent developments in precision gene editing have led to the emergence of the
marmoset as an experimental subject of considerable interest and translational
value. A better understanding of behavioral phenotypes of the common marmoset
will inform the extent to which forthcoming transgenic mutants are cognitively
intact. Therefore, additional information regarding their learning, inhibitory
control, and motivational abilities is needed. The present studies used
touchscreen-based repeated acquisition and discrimination reversal tasks to
examine basic dimensions of learning and response inhibition. Marmosets were
trained daily to respond to one of the two simultaneously presented novel
stimuli. Subjects learned to discriminate the two stimuli (acquisition) and,
subsequently, with the contingencies switched (reversal). In addition,
progressive ratio performance was used to measure the effort expended to obtain a
highly palatable reinforcer varying in magnitude and, thereby, provide an index
of relative motivational value. Results indicate that rates of both acquisition
and reversal of novel discriminations increased across successive sessions, but
that rate of reversal learning remained slower than acquisition learning, i.e.,
more trials were needed for mastery. A positive correlation was observed between 
progressive ratio break point and reinforcement magnitude. These results closely 
replicate previous findings with squirrel monkeys, thus providing evidence of
similarity in learning processes across nonhuman primate species. Moreover, these
data provide key information about the normative phenotype of wild-type marmosets
using three relevant behavioral endpoints.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-016-0959-4 
PMCID: PMC4826304
PMID: 26846231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

