

1107. Horm Behav. 2016 Apr;80:10-18. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2016.01.008. Epub 2016 Feb 1.

Oxytocin is associated with infant-care behavior and motivation in cooperatively 
breeding marmoset monkeys.

Finkenwirth C(1), Martins E(2), Deschner T(3), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
christa.finkenwirth@uzh.ch.
(2)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, 04103
Leipzig, Germany.

The neurohormone oxytocin (OT) is positively involved in the regulation of
parenting and social bonding in mammals, and may thus also be important for the
mediation of alloparental care. In cooperatively breeding marmosets, infants are 
raised in teamwork by parents and adult and sub-adult non-reproductive helpers
(usually older siblings). Despite high intrinsic motivation, which may be
mediated by hormonal priming, not all individuals are always equally able to
contribute to infant-care due to competition among care-takers. Among the various
care-taking behaviors, proactive food sharing may reflect motivational levels
best, since it can be performed ad libitum by several individuals even if
competition among surplus care-takers constrains access to infants. Our aim was
to study the link between urinary OT levels and care-taking behaviors in
group-living marmosets, while taking affiliation with other adults and infant age
into account. Over eight reproductive cycles, 26 individuals were monitored for
urinary baseline OT, care-taking behaviors (baby-licking, -grooming, -carrying,
and proactive food sharing), and adult-directed affiliation. Mean OT levels were 
generally highest in female breeders and OT increased significantly in all
individuals after birth. During early infancy, high urinary OT levels were
associated with increased infant-licking but low levels of adult-affiliation, and
during late infancy, with increased proactive food sharing. Our results show
that, in marmoset parents and alloparents, OT is positively involved in the
regulation of care-taking, thereby reflecting the changing needs during infant
development. This particularly included behaviors that are more likely to reflect
intrinsic care motivation, suggesting a positive link between OT and motivational
regulation of infant-care.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2016.01.008 
PMID: 26836769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

