

1109. Parasit Vectors. 2016 Jan 26;9:39. doi: 10.1186/s13071-016-1334-7.

Vector-borne transmission of Trypanosoma cruzi among captive Neotropical primates
in a Brazilian zoo.

Minuzzi-Souza TT(1), Nitz N(2), Knox MB(3), Reis F(4), Hagström L(5), Cuba CA(6),
Hecht MM(7), Gurgel-Gonçalves R(8).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Parasitologia Médica e Biologia de Vetores, Área de Patologia, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Brasília, Campus Universitário Darcy
Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, 70910-900, Distrito Federal, Brazil.
thaistam@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Laboratório Interdisciplinar de Biociências, Faculdade de Medicina,
Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil. nnitz@unb.br.
(3)Diretoria de Vigilância Ambiental do Distrito Federal, Secretaria de Saúde,
Brasília, Federal District, Brazil. monaknox@gmail.com.
(4)Fundação Jardim Zoológico de Brasília, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil.
filipereisbio@gmail.com.
(5)Laboratório Interdisciplinar de Biociências, Faculdade de Medicina,
Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil. loubex@hotmail.com.
(6)Laboratório de Parasitologia Médica e Biologia de Vetores, Área de Patologia, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Brasília, Campus Universitário Darcy
Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, 70910-900, Distrito Federal, Brazil.
cesarcuba@hotmail.com.
(7)Laboratório Interdisciplinar de Biociências, Faculdade de Medicina,
Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, Federal District, Brazil.
marianahecht@gmail.com.
(8)Laboratório de Parasitologia Médica e Biologia de Vetores, Área de Patologia, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Brasília, Campus Universitário Darcy
Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, 70910-900, Distrito Federal, Brazil.
gurgelrg@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Neotropical primates are important sylvatic hosts of Trypanosoma
cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. Infection is often subclinical,
but severe disease has been described in both free-ranging and captive primates. 
Panstrongylus megistus, a major T. cruzi vector, was found infesting a
small-primate unit at Brasília zoo (ZooB), Brazil. ZooB lies close to a
gallery-forest patch where T. cruzi circulates naturally. Here, we combine
parasitological and molecular methods to investigate a focus of T. cruzi
infection involving triatomine bugs and Neotropical primates at a zoo located in 
the Brazilian Savannah.
METHODS: We assessed T. cruzi infection in vectors using optical microscopy
(n = 34) and nested PCR (n = 50). We used quantitative PCR (qPCR) to examine
blood samples from 26 primates and necropsy samples from two primates that died
during the study. We determined parasite lineages in five vectors and two
primates by comparing glucose-6-phosphate isomerase (G6pi) gene sequences.
RESULTS: Trypanosoma cruzi was found in 44 vectors and 17 primates (six genera
and eight species); one Mico chrysoleucus and one Saguinus niger had high
parasitaemias. Trypanosoma cruzi DNA was detected in three primates born to
qPCR-negative mothers at ZooB and in the two dead specimens. One Callithrix
geoffroyi became qPCR-positive over a two-year follow-up. All G6pi sequences
matched T. cruzi lineage TcI.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings strongly suggest vector-borne T. cruzi transmission
within a small-primate unit at ZooB - with vectors, and perhaps also parasites,
presumably coming from nearby gallery forest. Periodic checks for vectors and
parasites would help eliminate T. cruzi transmission foci in captive-animal
facilities. This should be of special importance for captive-breeding programs
involving endangered mammals, and would reduce the risk of accidental T. cruzi
transmission to keepers and veterinarians.

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-016-1334-7 
PMCID: PMC4727406
PMID: 26813657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

