

1114. Lab Anim Res. 2015 Dec;31(4):155-65. doi: 10.5625/lar.2015.31.4.155. Epub 2015
Dec 22.

Modeling Parkinson's disease in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus):
overview of models, methods, and animal care.

Yun JW(1), Ahn JB(2), Kang BC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.; Graduate School of
Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.
(3)Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.; Graduate School of
Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul,
Korea.; Designed Animal Research Center, Institute of GreenBio Science
Technology, Seoul National University, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon, Korea.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small-bodied, popular New World
monkey and is used widely in reproductive biology, neuroscience, and drug
development, due to its comparative ease of handling, high reproductive
efficiency, and its unique behavioral characters. In this review, we discuss the 
marmoset models in Parkinson's disease (PD), which is a neurological movement
disorder primarily resulting from a degeneration of dopaminergic neurons with
clinical features of tremor, rigidity, postural instability, and akinesia. The
most common PD models involve the administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) or 6-hydroxydopamine to study
the pathogenesis and to evaluate novel therapies. Following the systemic or local
administration of these neurotoxins, the marmosets with very severe Parkinson's
symptoms are recommended to be placed in an intensive care unit with artificial
feeding to increase survival rate. All procedures with MPTP should be conducted
in a special room with enclosed cages under negative-pressure by trained
researchers with personal protection. Behavioral tests are conducted to provide
an external measure of the brain pathology. Along with several biomarkers,
including Î±-synuclein and DJ-1, non-invasive neuroimaging techniques such as
positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are used to evaluate 
the functional changes associated with PD. With the recent growing interest in
potential and novel therapies such as stem cell and gene therapy for PD in Korea,
the marmoset can be considered as a suitable non-human primate model in PD
research to bridge the gap between rodent studies and clinical applications.

DOI: 10.5625/lar.2015.31.4.155 
PMCID: PMC4707143
PMID: 26755918 

