

1117. Am J Pathol. 2016 Mar;186(3):630-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.10.025. Epub 2015 
Dec 24.

An Acute Immune Response to Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus
Replication Contributes to Viral Pathogenicity.

Baseler LJ(1), Falzarano D(2), Scott DP(3), Rosenke R(3), Thomas T(2), Munster
VJ(2), Feldmann H(2), de Wit E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana; Department of Comparative Pathobiology, Purdue University, West
Lafayette, Indiana.
(2)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana.
(3)Rocky Mountain Veterinary Branch, Division of Intramural Research, National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories,
Hamilton, Montana.
(4)Laboratory of Virology, Division of Intramural Research, National Institute of
Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana. Electronic address: emmie.dewit@nih.gov.

Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) was first identified in a
human with severe pneumonia in 2012. Since then, infections have been detected in
>1500 individuals, with disease severity ranging from asymptomatic to severe,
fatal pneumonia. To elucidate the pathogenesis of this virus and investigate
mechanisms underlying disease severity variation in the absence of autopsy data, 
a rhesus macaque and common marmoset model of MERS-CoV disease were analyzed.
Rhesus macaques developed mild disease, and common marmosets exhibited moderate
to severe, potentially lethal, disease. Both nonhuman primate species exhibited
respiratory clinical signs after inoculation, which were more severe and of
longer duration in the marmosets, and developed bronchointerstitial pneumonia. In
marmosets, the pneumonia was more extensive, with development of severe airway
lesions. Quantitative analysis showed significantly higher levels of pulmonary
neutrophil infiltration and higher amounts of pulmonary viral antigen in
marmosets. Pulmonary expression of the MERS-CoV receptor, dipeptidyl peptidase 4,
was similar in marmosets and macaques. These results suggest that increased virus
replication and the local immune response to MERS-CoV infection likely play a
role in pulmonary pathology severity. Together, the rhesus macaque and common
marmoset models of MERS-CoV span the wide range of disease severity reported in
MERS-CoV-infected humans, which will aid in investigating MERS-CoV disease
pathogenesis.

Copyright Â© 2016 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2015.10.025 
PMCID: PMC4816712 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26724387  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

