

1119. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2016 Jan 19;113(3):781-6. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1516120113.
Epub 2015 Dec 28.

Complex pitch perception mechanisms are shared by humans and a New World monkey.

Song X(1), Osmanski MS(2), Guo Y(2), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205
songxindong@jhmi.edu xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205.

The perception of the pitch of harmonic complex sounds is a crucial function of
human audition, especially in music and speech processing. Whether the underlying
mechanisms of pitch perception are unique to humans, however, is unknown. Based
on estimates of frequency resolution at the level of the auditory periphery,
psychoacoustic studies in humans have revealed several primary features of
central pitch mechanisms. It has been shown that (i) pitch strength of a harmonic
tone is dominated by resolved harmonics; (ii) pitch of resolved harmonics is
sensitive to the quality of spectral harmonicity; and (iii) pitch of unresolved
harmonics is sensitive to the salience of temporal envelope cues. Here we show,
for a standard musical tuning fundamental frequency of 440 Hz, that the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey with a hearing range similar to
that of humans, exhibits all of the primary features of central pitch mechanisms 
demonstrated in humans. Thus, marmosets and humans may share similar pitch
perception mechanisms, suggesting that these mechanisms may have emerged early in
primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1516120113 
PMCID: PMC4725463
PMID: 26712015  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

