

1120. Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2015 Dec 28;13(1):100-109. doi: 10.1007/s13770-015-0106-3. 
eCollection 2016 Feb.

Behavior, PET and histology in novel regimen of MPTP marmoset model of
Parkinson's disease for long-term stem cell therapy.

Yun JW(1), Ahn JB(1)(2), Kwon E(1), Ahn JH(1)(2), Park HW(3), Heo H(4), Park
JS(5), Kim H(4)(6), Paek SH(3), Kang BC(1)(2)(7).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Experimental Animal Research, Biomedical Research Institute,
Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(2)2Graduate School of Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)3Department of Neurosurgery, Seoul National University College of Medicine,
Seoul, Korea.
(4)4Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.
(5)5Department of Neurogenetics, Kolling Institute of Medical Research, Royal
North Shore Hospital and the University of Sydney, St. Leonards, New South Wales,
Australia.
(6)6Department of Radiology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(7)7Designed Animal and Transplantation Research Institute, Institute of GreenBio
Science Technology, Seoul National University, Pyeongchang, Korea.

Stem cell technologies are particularly attractive in Parkinson's disease (PD)
research although they occasionally need long-term treatment for
anti-parkinsonian activity. Unfortunately,
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) widely used as a model for PD
has several limitations, including the risk of dose-dependent mortality and the
difficulty of maintenance of PD symptoms during the whole experiment period.
Therefore, we tested if our novel MPTP regimen protocol (2 mg/kg for 2
consecutive days and 1 mg/kg for next 3 consecutive days) can be maintained
stable parkinsonism without mortality for long-term stem cell therapy. For this, 
we used small-bodied common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) among several
nonhuman primates showing high anatomical, functional, and behavioral
similarities to humans. Along with no mortality, the behavioral changes involved 
in PD symptoms were maintained for 32 weeks. Also, the loss of jumping ability of
the MPTP-treated marmosets in the Tower test was not recovered by 32 weeks.
Positron emission tomography (PET) analysis revealed that remarkable decreases of
bindings of 18F-FP-CIT were observed at the striatum of the brains of the
marmosets received MPTP during the full period of the experiment for 32 weeks. In
the substantia nigra of the marmosets, the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)
immunoreactivity was also observed at 32 weeks following the MPTP treatment. In
conclusion, our low-dose MPTP regimen protocol was found to be stable
parkinsonism without mortality as evidenced by behavior, PET, and TH
immunohistochemistry. This result will be useful for evaluation of possible
long-term stem cell therapy for anti-parkinsonian activity.

DOI: 10.1007/s13770-015-0106-3 
PMCID: PMC6170997
PMID: 30603390 

