

1122. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2016 Jan;75(1):86-98.

Elevated Expression of the Cerebrospinal Fluid Disease Markers Chromogranin A and
Clusterin in Astrocytes of Multiple Sclerosis White Matter Lesions.

van Luijn MM, van Meurs M, Stoop MP, Verbraak E, Wierenga-Wolf AF, Melief MJ,
Kreft KL, Verdijk RM, 't Hart BA, Luider TM, Laman JD, Hintzen RQ.

Using proteomics, we previously identified chromogranin A (CgA) and clusterin
(CLU) as disease-related proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients
with multiple sclerosis (MS). CgA and CLU are involved in cell survival and are
implicated in neurodegenerative disorders and may also have roles in MS
pathophysiology. We investigated CgA and CLU expression in lesions and
nonlesional regions in postmortem brains of MS patients and controls and in the
brains of marmosets with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. By
quantitative PCR, mRNA levels of CgA and CLU were elevated in white matter but
not in grey matter of MS patients. In situ analyses showed greater expression of 
CgA and CLU in white matter lesions than in normal-appearing regions in MS
patients and in the marmosets, primarily in or adjacent to perivascular spaces
and inflammatory infiltrates. Both proteins were expressed by glial fibrillary
acidic protein-positive astrocytes. CgA was more localized in astrocytic
processes and endfeet surrounding blood vessels and was abundant in the
superficial glia limitans and ependyma, 2 CSF-brain borders. Increased expression
of CgA and CLU in reactive astrocytes in MS white matter lesions supports a role 
for these molecules as neuro-inflammatory mediators and their potential as CSF
markers of active pathological processes in MS patients.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlv004 
PMID: 26683597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

