

1123. Behav Brain Res. 2016 Mar 1;300:25-30. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.11.028. Epub 2015 
Dec 7.

The dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF-82958 effectively increases eye blinking
count in common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Kiyoshi A(1), Murai T(1), Nakako T(1), Matsumoto K(1), Matsumoto
A(1), Ikejiri M(1), Ogi Y(1), Ikeda K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab, Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan.
(2)Ikeda Lab, Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan. Electronic address:
kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Eye blinking is a spontaneous behavior observed in all mammals, and has been used
as a well-established clinical indicator for dopamine production in
neuropsychiatric disorders, including Parkinson's disease and Tourette syndrome
[1,2]. Pharmacological studies in humans and non-human primates have shown that
dopamine agonists/antagonists increase/decrease eye blinking rate. Common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have recently attracted a great deal of attention 
as suitable experimental animals in the psychoneurological field due to their
more developed prefrontal cortex than rodents, easy handling compare to other
non-human primates, and requirement for small amounts of test drugs. In this
study, we evaluated the effects of dopamine D1-4 receptors agonists on eye
blinking in common marmosets. Our results show that the dopamine D1 receptor
agonist SKF-82958 and the non-selective dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine
significantly increased common marmosets eye blinking count, whereas the dopamine
D2 agonist (+)-PHNO and the dopamine D3 receptor agonist (+)-PD-128907 produced
somnolence in common marmosets resulting in a decrease in eye blinking count. The
dopamine D4 receptor agonists PD-168077 and A-41297 had no effect on common
marmosets' eye blinking count. Finally, the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH
39166 completely blocked apomorphine-induced increase in eye blinking count.
These results indicate that eye blinking in common marmosets may be a useful tool
for in vivo screening of novel dopamine D1 receptor agonists as antipsychotics.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.11.028 
PMID: 26675887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

