

1124. Chromosoma. 2016 Sep;125(4):747-56. doi: 10.1007/s00412-015-0565-2. Epub 2015 Dec
14.

The 14/15 association as a paradigmatic example of tracing karyotype evolution in
New World monkeys.

Capozzi O(1), Archidiacono N(1), Lorusso N(1), Stanyon R(2), Rocchi M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.
roscoe.stanyon@unifi.it.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
rocchi@biologia.uniba.it.

Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), especially chromosome painting, has
been extensively exploited in the phylogenetic reconstruction of primate
evolution. Although chromosome painting is a key method to map translocations, it
is not effective in detecting chromosome inversions, which may be up to four
times more frequent than other chromosomal rearrangements. BAC-FISH instead can
economically delineate marker order and reveal intrachromosomal rearrangements.
However, up to now, BAC-FISH was rarely used to study the chromosomes of New
World monkeys partly due to technical difficulties. In this paper, we used
BAC-FISH to disentangle the complex evolutionary history of the ancestral 14/15
association in NWMs, beginning from the squirrel monkey (Saimiri boliviensis). To
improve the hybridization efficiency of BAC-FISH in NWMs, we "translated" the
human BACs into Callithrix jacchus (CJA) BACs, which yielded much higher
hybridization efficiencies on other NWM species than human BACs. Our results
disclosed 14 synteny blocks in squirrel monkeys, 7 more than with chromosome
painting. We then applied a subset of CJA BACs on six other NWM species. The
comparison of the hybridization pattern of these species contained phylogenetic
information to discriminate evolutionary relationships. Notably Aotus was found
to share an inversion with Callithrix, thus definitely assigning the genus Aotus 
to Cebidae. The present study can be seen as a paradigmatic approach to
investigate the phylogenetics of NWMs by molecular cytogenetics.

DOI: 10.1007/s00412-015-0565-2 
PMID: 26667930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

