

1131. J Acoust Soc Am. 2015 Nov;138(5):2906-28. doi: 10.1121/1.4934268.

A quantitative acoustic analysis of the vocal repertoire of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Agamaite JA(1), Chang CJ(1), Osmanski MS(1), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate
species, has emerged in recent years as a promising animal model for studying
brain mechanisms underlying perception, vocal production, and cognition. The
present study provides a quantitative acoustic analysis of a large number of
vocalizations produced by marmosets in a social environment within a captive
colony. Previous classifications of the marmoset vocal repertoire were mostly
based on qualitative observations. In the present study a variety of
vocalizations from individually identified marmosets were sampled and multiple
acoustic features of each type of vocalization were measured. Results show that
marmosets have a complex vocal repertoire in captivity that consists of multiple 
vocalization types, including both simple calls and compound calls composed of
sequences of simple calls. A detailed quantification of the vocal repertoire of
the marmoset can serve as a solid basis for studying the behavioral significance 
of their vocalizations and is essential for carrying out studies that investigate
such properties as perceptual boundaries between call types and among individual 
callers as well as neural coding mechanisms for vocalizations. It can also serve 
as the basis for evaluating abnormal vocal behaviors resulting from diseases or
genetic manipulations.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4934268 
PMCID: PMC4644241
PMID: 26627765  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

