

1132. Cladistics. 2015 Dec;31(6):652-678. doi: 10.1111/cla.12106. Epub 2015 Jan 8.

How many marmoset (Primates: Cebidae: Callitrichinae) genera are there? A
phylogenetic analysis based on multiple morphological systems.

Garbino GST(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)IPÊ - Instituto de Pesquisas Ecológicas, C. Postal 47, 12960-000, Nazaré
Paulista, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Pós-graduação, Museu de Zoologia, Universidade de São Paulo, Avenida Nazaré
481, 04263-000, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The marmosets, tribe Callitrichini, are the most speciose clade in the subfamily 
Callitrichinae, containing 21 species. However, there is no consensus among
molecular and morphological systematists as to how many genera should be
recognized for the group. To test the morphological support for the alternative
generic classifications, this study presents a comprehensive phylogenetic
analysis. It is the first such analysis to include all 21 species and employ
continuous and discrete osteological, pelage and tegument, karyological and vocal
characters. This dataset was combined with nucleotide sequences from two
mitochondrial and four nuclear regions. Separate analyses showed that, among
morphological datasets, osteological characters were best at solving
relationships at more inclusive levels, whilst pelage characters were most
informative at the interspecific level. This suggests the presence of different
transformation rates for the two character sets. When a single most parsimonious 
tree was obtained using the 83-character matrix, three main clades were
identified, supporting the division of the marmosets into three genera:
Callithrix, Cebuella and Mico. The total evidence analysis that included an
additional 3481 molecular characters corroborated most of the morphology-based
clades and also supported a three-genus classification of the marmosets. This is 
the first morphological study to support an Amazonian marmoset clade
(Cebuella + Mico), which is also strongly supported in exclusively molecular
phylogenies, and to synonimize Callibella under Mico.

© The Willi Hennig Society 2015.

DOI: 10.1111/cla.12106 
PMID: 34753268 

