

1142. Virology. 2016 Jan;487:141-9. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2015.10.004. Epub 2015 Nov 2.

Amino acid substitutions in the heptad repeat A and C regions of the F protein
responsible for neurovirulence of measles virus Osaka-1 strain from a patient
with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis.

Ayata M(1), Tanaka M(2), Kameoka K(3), Kuwamura M(2), Takeuchi K(4), Takeda M(5),
Kanou K(6), Ogura H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka City University,
Osaka 545-8585, Japan. Electronic address: maverick@med.osaka-cu.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University, Osaka
598-8531, Japan.
(3)Department of Virology, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka City University,
Osaka 545-8585, Japan.
(4)Laboratory of Environmental Microbiology, Division of Biomedical Science,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8575, Japan.
(5)Department of Virology 3, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Tokyo
208-0011, Japan.
(6)Infectious Disease Surveillance Center, National Institute of Infectious
Diseases, Tokyo 208-0011, Japan.

Measles virus (MV) is the causative agent of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis 
(SSPE). We previously reported that the F gene of the SSPE Osaka-2 strain is the 
major determinant of MV neurovirulence. Because the sites and extents of
mutations differ among SSPE strains, it is necessary to determine the mutations
responsible for the SSPE-specific phenotypes of individual viral strain. In this 
study, recombinant viruses containing the envelope-associated genes from the SSPE
Osaka-1 strain were generated in the IC323 wild-type MV background. Hamsters
inoculated with MV containing the H gene of the Osaka-1 strain displayed
hyperactivity and seizures, but usually recovered and survived. Hamsters
inoculated with MV containing the F gene of the Osaka-1 strain displayed severe
neurologic signs and died. Amino acid substitutions in the heptad repeat A and C 
regions of the F protein, including a methionine-to-valine substitution at amino 
acid 94, play major roles in neurovirulence.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2015.10.004 
PMID: 26524513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

