

1143. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2016 Jan;66(1):255-265. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.000708.
Epub 2015 Oct 28.

Bifidobacterium myosotis sp. nov., Bifidobacterium tissieri sp. nov. and
Bifidobacterium hapali sp. nov., isolated from faeces of baby common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus L.).

Michelini S(1), Oki K(2), Yanokura E(3), Shimakawa Y(3), Modesto M(1), Mattarelli
P(1), Biavati B(4), Watanabe K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Yakult Honsha European Research Center for Microbiology ESV, Technologie Park 
4, 9052 Zwijnaarde, Belgium.
(3)Yakult Central Institute, 5-11 Izumi, Kunitachi, Tokyo 186-8650, Japan.
(4)Institute of Earth Systems, Division of Rural Sciences & Food Systems,
University of Malta, Msida, Malta.
(5)Department of Animal Science and Technology, National Taiwan University, No.
50, Lane 155, Sec. 3, Keelung Rd, Taipei 10673, Taiwan ROC.

In a previous study on bifidobacterial distribution in New World monkeys, six
strains belonging to the Bifidobacteriaceae were isolated from faecal samples of 
baby common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus L.). All the isolates were
Gram-positive-staining, anaerobic, asporogenous and fructose-6-phosphate
phosphoketolase-positive. Comparative analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequences
revealed relatively low levels of similarity (maximum identity 96 %) to members
of the genus Bifidobacterium, and placed the isolates in three independent
clusters: strains of cluster I (MRM_5.9T and MRM_5.10) and cluster III (MRM_5.18T
and MRM_9.02) respectively showed 96.4 and 96.7 % 16S rRNA gene sequence
similarity to Bifidobacterium callitrichos DSM 23973T, while strains of cluster
II (MRM_8.14T and MRM_9.14) showed 95.4 % similarity to Bifidobacterium
stellenboschense DSM 23968T. Phylogenetic analysis of partial hsp60 and clpC gene
sequences supported an independent phylogenetic position of each cluster from
each other and from the related type strains B. callitrichos DSM 23973T and B.
stellenboschense DSM 23968T. Clusters I, II and III respectively showed DNA G+C
contents of 64.9-65.1, 56.4-56.7 and 63.1-63.7 mol%. The major cellular fatty
acids of MRM_5.9T were C14 : 0, C16 : 0 and C18 : 1ω9c dimethylacetal, while
C16 : 0 was prominent in strains MRM_5.18T and MRM_8.14T, followed by C18 : 1ω9c 
and C14 : 0. Biochemical profiles and growth parameters were recorded for all the
isolates. Based on the data provided, the clusters represent three novel species,
for which the names Bifidobacterium myosotis sp. nov. (type strain MRM_5.9T = DSM
100196T = JCM 30796T), Bifidobacterium hapali sp. nov. (type strain
MRM_8.14T = DSM 100202T = JCM 30799T) and Bifidobacterium tissieri sp. nov. (type
strain MRM_5.18T = DSM 100201T = JCM 30798T) are proposed.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.000708 
PMID: 26515885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

