

1144. Retrovirology. 2015 Oct 29;12:89. doi: 10.1186/s12977-015-0214-0.

Wide distribution and ancient evolutionary history of simian foamy viruses in New
World primates.

Ghersi BM(1), Jia H(2), Aiewsakun P(3), Katzourakis A(4), Mendoza P(5), Bausch
DG(6)(7), Kasper MR(8), Montgomery JM(9)(10), Switzer WM(11).

Author information: 
(1)U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 6, Lima, Peru. bghersi@tulane.edu.
(2)Laboratory Branch, Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd., MS G-45, Atlanta, GA, 30329, USA. hjia@cdc.gov.
(3)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX1 3PS, UK.
pakorn.aiewsakun@zoo.ox.ac.uk.
(4)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford, OX1 3PS, UK.
aris.katzourakis@zoo.ox.ac.uk.
(5)Wildlife Conservation Society, Lima, Peru. pmendoza@wcs.org.
(6)U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 6, Lima, Peru. dbausch@tulane.edu.
(7)Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Hygiene, New Orleans, LA, USA.
dbausch@tulane.edu.
(8)U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 6, Lima, Peru.
matthew.r.kasper2.mil@mail.mil.
(9)U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 6, Lima, Peru. jmontgomery@cdc.gov.
(10)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, 30333, USA.
jmontgomery@cdc.gov.
(11)Laboratory Branch, Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for
HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd., MS G-45, Atlanta, GA, 30329, USA. bis3@cdc.gov.

BACKGROUND: Although simian foamy viruses (SFV) are the only exogenous
retroviruses to infect New World monkeys (NWMs), little is known about their
evolutionary history and epidemiology. Previous reports show distinct SFVs among 
NWMs but were limited to small numbers of captive or wild monkeys from five
(Cebus, Saimiri, Ateles, Alouatta, and Callithrix) of the 15 NWM genera. Other
studies also used only PCR testing or serological assays with limited validation 
and may have missed infection in some species. We developed and validated new
serological and PCR assays to determine the prevalence of SFV in blood specimens 
from a large number of captive NWMs in the US (n = 274) and in captive and
wild-caught NWMs (n = 236) in Peruvian zoos, rescue centers, and illegal trade
markets. Phylogenetic and co-speciation reconciliation analyses of new SFV
polymerase (pol) and host mitochondrial cytochrome B sequences, were performed to
infer SFV and host co-evolutionary histories.
RESULTS: 124/274 (45.2 %) of NWMs captive in the US and 59/157 (37.5 %) of
captive and wild-caught NWMs in Peru were SFV WB-positive representing 11
different genera (Alouatta, Aotus, Ateles, Cacajao, Callithrix, Cebus, Lagothrix,
Leontopithecus, Pithecia, Saguinus and Saimiri). Seroprevalences were lower at
rescue centers (10/53, 18.9 %) compared to zoos (46/97, 47.4 %) and illegal trade
markets (3/7, 8/19, 42.9 %) in Peru. Analyses showed that the trees of NWM hosts 
and SFVs have remarkably similar topologies at the level of species and
sub-populations suggestive of co-speciation. Phylogenetic reconciliation
confirmed 12 co-speciation events (p < 0.002) which was further supported by
obtaining highly similar divergence dates for SFV and host genera and correlated 
SFV-host branch times. However, four ancient cross-genus transmission events were
also inferred for Pitheciinae to Atelidae, Cacajao to ancestral Callithrix or
Cebus monkeys, between Callithrix and Cebus monkeys, and Lagothrix to Alouatta.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate a broad distribution and stable co-speciation history
of SFV in NWMs at the species level. Additional studies are necessary to further 
explore the epidemiology and natural history of SFV infection of NWMs and to
determine the zoonotic potential for persons exposed to infected monkeys in
captivity and in the wild.

DOI: 10.1186/s12977-015-0214-0 
PMCID: PMC4627628
PMID: 26514626  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

