

1145. Neuroreport. 2015 Dec 16;26(18):1133-9. doi: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000483.

Functional columns in superior temporal sulcus areas of the common marmoset.

Suzuki W(1), Tani T, Banno T, Miyakawa N, Abe H, Ichinohe N.

Author information: 
(1)aDepartment of Ultrastructural Research, National Center of Neurology and
Psychiatry, National Institute of Neuroscience, Tokyo bIchinohe Neural System
Group, Lab for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function, RIKEN Brain Science
Institute, Saitama, Japan.

Cortical areas in the superior temporal sulcus (STS) of primates have been
recognized as a part of the 'social brain'. In particular, biological motion
stimuli elicit neuronal responses in the STS, indicating their roles in the
ability to understand others' actions. However, the spatial organization of
functionally identified STS cells is not well understood because it is difficult 
to identify the precise locations of cells in sulcal regions. Here, using a small
New World monkey, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) that has a
lissencephalic brain, we investigated the spatial organization of the cells
responsive to other's actions in STS. The neural responses to movies showing
several types of other's actions were recorded with multicontact linear-array
electrodes that had four shanks (0.4 mm spacing), with eight electrode contacts
(0.2 mm spacing) for each shank. The four shanks were penetrated perpendicular to
the cortical surface. We found that STS cells significantly responded to other's 
goal-directed actions, such as when an actor marmoset was reaching for and
grasping a piece of food. The response profiles to the movies were more similar
between the vertically positioned electrodes than horizontally positioned
electrodes when the distances between electrodes were matched. This indicates
that there are functional columns in the higher-order visual areas in STS of the 
common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000483 
PMID: 26512934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

