

1151. Front Psychol. 2015 Oct 7;6:1519. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2015.01519. eCollection
2015.

Can vocal conditioning trigger a semiotic ratchet in marmosets?

Turesson HK(1), Ribeiro S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte , Natal, Brazil.

The complexity of human communication has often been taken as evidence that our
language reflects a true evolutionary leap, bearing little resemblance to any
other animal communication system. The putative uniqueness of the human language 
poses serious evolutionary and ethological challenges to a rational explanation
of human communication. Here we review ethological, anatomical, molecular, and
computational results across several species to set boundaries for these
challenges. Results from animal behavior, cognitive psychology, neurobiology, and
semiotics indicate that human language shares multiple features with other
primate communication systems, such as specialized brain circuits for
sensorimotor processing, the capability for indexical (pointing) and symbolic
(referential) signaling, the importance of shared intentionality for associative 
learning, affective conditioning and parental scaffolding of vocal production.
The most substantial differences lie in the higher human capacity for symbolic
compositionality, fast vertical transmission of new symbols across generations,
and irreversible accumulation of novel adaptive behaviors (cultural ratchet). We 
hypothesize that increasingly-complex vocal conditioning of an appropriate animal
model may be sufficient to trigger a semiotic ratchet, evidenced by progressive
sign complexification, as spontaneous contact calls become indexes, then symbols 
and finally arguments (strings of symbols). To test this hypothesis, we outline a
series of conditioning experiments in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
The experiments are designed to probe the limits of vocal communication in a
prosocial, highly vocal primate 35 million years far from the human lineage, so
as to shed light on the mechanisms of semiotic complexification and cultural
transmission, and serve as a naturalistic behavioral setting for the
investigation of language disorders.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2015.01519 
PMCID: PMC4596241
PMID: 26500583 

