

1153. Horm Behav. 2016 Feb;78:13-9. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.004. Epub 2015 Oct 21.

Hormonal stimulation and paternal experience influence responsiveness to infant
distress vocalizations by adult male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Ziegler TE(1), Sosa ME(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, 1220 Capitol Court, Madison, WI
53715, USA. Electronic address: ziegler@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, 1220 Capitol Court, Madison, WI
53715, USA.

Parental experience and hormones play a large role in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) father's care of their offspring. We tested the effect of
exogenous estradiol or testosterone on the responsiveness of common marmosets to 
respond to infant distress vocalizations and whether males who haven't become
fathers yet (paired males) would have increased responsiveness to infant distress
calls with either steroid or whether parental experience is the most important
component for the onset of paternal care. Sixteen male marmosets (8 fathers, 8
paired males) received a vehicle, low dose or high dose of estradiol and
additional 16 males were tested with testosterone at three doses for their
response either to a vocal control or a recording of an infant distress call for 
10min. Without steroid stimulation fathers were significantly more likely to
respond to the infant distress stimulus than paired males. Low dose estradiol
stimulation resulted in a significant increase in fathers' behavioral response
towards the infant distress stimulus but not in paired males. Fathers also showed
a significant increase in infant responsiveness from the vehicle dose to the
estradiol low dose treatment, but not to the estradiol high dose treatment.
Testosterone treatment did not show significant differences between infant
responsiveness at either dose and between fathers and paired males. We suggest
that neither steroid is involved in the onset of paternal care behaviors in the
marmoset but that estradiol may be involved in facilitating paternal motivation
in experienced fathers.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.004 
PMCID: PMC4718886
PMID: 26497409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

