

1155. Behav Brain Res. 2016 Jan 15;297:277-84. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.10.025. Epub
2015 Oct 22.

Sustained performance by common marmosets in a delayed matching to position task 
with variable stimulus presentations.

Yamazaki Y(1), Saiki M(2), Inada M(2), Watanabe S(3), Iriki A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University, Japan; Advanced Research 
Centers, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan; Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive
Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Japan. Electronic address:
yumyam@a5.keio.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Human Relations, Keio University, Japan; Department of
Psychology, Keio University, Japan.

Working memory is used to solve various cognitive problems by maintaining
information for some time and then by refreshing this information after certain
purposes are achieved. In the present study, we explored the ability of common
marmosets to perform a delayed matching to position (DMTP) task in a controlled
environment using operant conditioning. The DMTP task requires the subjects to
respond to the sample stimulus and to select one of two comparison stimuli with a
position matching that of the sample stimulus after a programmed delay period.
Positional arrangement of the sample and comparison stimuli, which were
quasi-randomly determined in each trial, was employed to prevent the subjects
from using any strategies based on their own body positions or orientations. The 
delay intervals between presentations of the sample and comparison stimuli were
fixed at 0.5 and 1s in the initial phases and were then varied between 5
intervals per delay set (e.g., 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 8s) intermixed in a session. The
longest delay interval within a set was gradually increased after the marmosets
achieved the criterion of each task. The subjects were successfully trained in
the procedure and showed accurate performance even following delays of more than 
100 s. The response times in the trials suggested that they used different
strategies depending on the delay interval length. Thus, the present study shows 
the robust ability of common marmosets in a task requiring positional memory,
which is related to their foraging strategy observed in the wild.

Copyright Â© 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.10.025 
PMID: 26475508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

