

1156. Horm Behav. 2015 Sep;75:154-9. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.002. Epub 2015 Oct
22.

Oxytocin and vasopressin enhance responsiveness to infant stimuli in adult
marmosets.

Taylor JH(1), French JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States. Electronic address:
jhtaylor@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States; Department of Biology, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, United States.

The neuropeptides oxytocin (OT) and arginine-vasopressin (AVP) have been
implicated in modulating sex-specific responses to offspring in a variety of
uniparental and biparental rodent species. Despite the large body of research in 
rodents, the effects of these hormones in biparental primates are less
understood. Marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) belong to a clade of primates
with a high incidence of biparental care and also synthesize a structurally
distinct variant of OT (proline instead of leucine at the 8th amino acid
position; Pro(8)-OT). We examined the roles of the OT and AVP systems in the
control of responses to infant stimuli in marmoset monkeys. We administered
neuropeptide receptor agonists and antagonists to male and female marmosets, and 
then exposed them to visual and auditory infant-related and control stimuli.
Intranasal Pro(8)-OT decreased latencies to respond to infant stimuli in males,
and intranasal AVP decreased latencies to respond to infant stimuli in females.
Our study is the first to demonstrate that Pro(8)-OT and AVP alter responsiveness
to infant stimuli in a biparental New World monkey. Across species, the effects
of OT and AVP on parental behavior appear to vary by species-typical caregiving
responsibilities in males and females.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.10.002 
PMCID: PMC4648635
PMID: 26472596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

