

1158. Sci Rep. 2015 Oct 12;5:15006. doi: 10.1038/srep15006.

Mismatch negativity in common marmosets: Whole-cortical recordings with
multi-channel electrocorticograms.

Komatsu M(1), Takaura K(1), Fujii N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Adaptive Intelligence, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1
Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Mismatch negativity (MMN) is a component of event-related potentials (ERPs)
evoked by violations of regularity in sensory stimulus-series in humans.
Recently, the MMN has received attention as a clinical and translatable biomarker
of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, and for the development animal
models of these psychiatric disorders. In this study, we investigated the
generation of MMN in common marmosets, which are an important non-human primate
model with genetic manipulability. We recorded the electrocorticograms (ECoGs)
from two common marmosets with epidurally implanted electrodes covering a wide
range of cortical regions. ECoG recordings were conducted in a passive listening 
condition with a roving oddball paradigm. We compared the ERPs evoked by
repeatedly presented standard stimuli and those evoked by the deviant stimuli.
Significant differences in the ERPs were observed in several cortical areas. In
particular, deviant stimuli elicited larger negative activity than standard
stimuli in the temporal area. In addition, the latency and polarity of the
activity were comparable to human MMNs. This is thus the first report of MMN-like
activity in common marmosets. Our findings have the potential to advance future
gene-manipulation studies that aim to establish non-human primate models of
schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1038/srep15006 
PMCID: PMC4601015
PMID: 26456147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

