

1160. Neuroscience. 2016 Jan 15;312:247-59. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.09.065.
Epub 2015 Oct 9.

Progression and recovery of Parkinsonism in a chronic progressive MPTP-induction 
model in the marmoset without persistent molecular and cellular damage.

Franke SK(1), van Kesteren RE(2), Wubben JA(3), Hofman S(3), Paliukhovich I(2),
van der Schors RC(2), van Nierop P(2), Smit AB(2), Philippens IH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology, Center for Neurogenomics
and Cognitive Research, Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands; Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Neurobiology, Center for Neurogenomics
and Cognitive Research, Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, VU University, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(4)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. Electronic
address: philippens@bprc.nl.

Chronic exposure to low-dose 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) 
in marmoset monkeys was used to model the prodromal stage of Parkinson's disease 
(PD), and to investigate mechanisms underlying disease progression and recovery. 
Marmosets were subcutaneously injected with MPTP for a period of 12weeks,
0.5mg/kg once per week, and clinical signs of Parkinsonism, motor- and non-motor 
behaviors were recorded before, during and after exposure. In addition,
postmortem immunohistochemistry and proteomics analysis were performed.
MPTP-induced parkinsonian clinical symptoms increased in severity during
exposure, and recovered after MPTP administration was ended. Postmortem analyses,
after the recovery period, revealed no alteration of the number and sizes of
tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra.
Also levels of TH in putamen and caudate nucleus were unaltered, no differences
were observed in DA, serotonin or nor-adrenalin levels in the caudate nucleus,
and proteomics analysis revealed no global changes in protein expression in these
brain areas between treatment groups. Our findings indicate that parkinsonian
symptoms can occur without detectable damage at the cellular or molecular level. 
Moreover, we show that parkinsonian symptoms may be reversible when diagnosed and
treated early.

Copyright Â© 2015 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2015.09.065 
PMID: 26431624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

