

1162. Vis Neurosci. 2015 Jan;32:E012. doi: 10.1017/S0952523815000097.

Corticocortical connection patterns reveal two distinct visual cortical areas
bordering dorsal V2 in marmoset monkey.

Jeffs J(1), Federer F(1), Angelucci A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science,Moran Eye Institute,University 
of Utah,Salt Lake City,Utah 84132.

The organization of the cortex located immediately anterior to the second visual 
area (V2), i.e., the third tier visual cortex, remains controversial, especially 
in New World primates. In particular, there is lack of consensus regarding the
exact location and extent of the lower visual quadrant representation of the
third visual area V3 (or ventrolateral posterior -VLP - of a different
nomenclature). Microelectrode and connectional mapping studies have revealed the 
existence of an upper visual quadrant representation abutting dorsal V2
anteriorly, and bordered medially and laterally by representations of the lower
visual quadrant. It remains unclear whether these lower field regions are both
part of a single area V3, which is split into two patches by an interposed region
of upper field representation, or whether they are the lower field
representations of two different areas, the dorsomedial area (DM) and area
V3/VLP, respectively. To address this question, we quantitatively analyzed the
patterns of corticocortical afferent connections labeled by tracer injections
targeted to these two lower field regions in the dorsal aspect of the third tier 
cortex. We found different inter-areal connectivity patterns arising from these
two regions, strongly suggesting that they belong to two different visual areas. 
In particular, our results indicate that the dorsal aspect of the third tier
cortex consists of two distinct areas: a full area DM, representing the lower
quadrant medially, and the upper quadrant laterally, and the lower quadrant
representation of V3/VLP, located laterally to upper field DM. DM is
predominantly connected with areas of the dorsal visual stream, and V3/VLP with
areas of the ventral stream. These results prompt further functional
investigations of the third tier cortex, as previous studies of this cortical
territory may have pooled response properties of two very different areas into a 
single area V3.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523815000097 
PMCID: PMC5301919
PMID: 26423121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

