

1163. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2015 Nov;15(11):667-73. doi: 10.1089/vbz.2015.1806.
Epub 2015 Sep 29.

Serological Evidence of Infection by Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum (Synonym:
Leishmania (Leishmania) chagasi) in Free-Ranging Wild Mammals in a Nonendemic
Region of the State of São Paulo, Brazil.

Paiz LM(1)(2), Fornazari F(1), Menozzi BD(1), Oliveira GC(1), Coiro CJ(1),
Teixeira CR(3), da Silva VM(4), Donalisio MR(5), Langoni H(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Veterinary Medicine and Public Health, School of Veterinary
Medicine and Animal Science, São Paulo State University-UNESP , Botucatu, São
Paulo, Brazil .
(2)5 Present address: Department of Public Health, School of Medical Sciences,
State University of Campinas-UNICAMP , Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil .
(3)2 Center for Wildlife Medicine and Research, School of Veterinary Medicine and
Animal Science, São Paulo State University-UNESP , Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil .
(4)3 Environmental Health Surveillance, Botucatu Municipal Secretariat of Health 
, Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil .
(5)4 Department of Public Health, School of Medical Sciences, State University of
Campinas-UNICAMP , Campinas, São Paulo, Brazil .

Concerns about the interface between wildlife, domestic animals, and humans in
the transmission of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) have been growing due to natural 
or anthropogenic environmental changes. In this context, investigations of the
infection in wild mammals are important to assess their exposure to the vector
and the parasite. A study of anti-Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum antibodies was
carried out using the direct agglutination test (DAT) on 528 free-ranging wild
mammals of 38 species from the region of Botucatu, state of São Paulo, Brazil, a 
municipality that has no records of the vector or of human or canine autochthony.
Antibodies were detected, with a cutoff of 1:320, in 9/528 (1.7%; 95% confidence 
interval [CI] 0.6-2.8%) mammals of the species Callithrix jacchus, Lepus
europaeus, Sphiggurus villosus, Nasua nasua, Eira barbara, and Galictis cuja,
with high titers (≥1280) for the last three. These three are little-studied
species, and previous records of the detection of anti-Leishmania spp. antibodies
in Brazil exist only for coatis (N. nasua), whereas worldwide, infection by L.
(L.) infantum has been confirmed only in hares (Le. europaeus). On the other
hand, opossums and canids, the species most commonly reported to be naturally
infected by L. (L.) infantum, were not seropositive. Fifty-eight (58/528; 10.9%) 
mammals were found to have antibody titers ranging from 20 to 160 and were not
included among the seropositive animals due to the adopted cutoff. However, the
possibility of infection in these animals should not be discarded, because there 
is no standard cutoff point for the different wild species. Our findings indicate
the need for investigations into the exact role of the seropositive species in
the epidemiology of VL and for effective epidemiological surveillance to prevent 
its expansion, because even in regions where there are no records of canine or
human autochthonous cases, there may be parasite circulation among wild mammals.

DOI: 10.1089/vbz.2015.1806 
PMID: 26418884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

