

1164. Eur J Pharmacol. 2015 Nov 5;766:25-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.09.028. Epub
2015 Sep 28.

The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, istradefylline enhances anti-parkinsonian 
activity induced by combined treatment with low doses of L-DOPA and dopamine
agonists in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Uchida S(1), Soshiroda K(2), Okita E(2), Kawai-Uchida M(2), Mori A(3), Jenner
P(4), Kanda T(5).

Author information: 
(1)Central Nervous System Research Laboratories, Central Nervous System Research 
& Development Unit, Research & Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.,
1188 Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.
(2)Research Core Function Laboratories, Research Functions Unit, Research &
Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.
(3)Strategic Product Portfolio Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., Tokyo
100-8185, Japan.
(4)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College, London SE1 1UL, 
UK.
(5)Central Nervous System Research Laboratories, Central Nervous System Research 
& Development Unit, Research & Development Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.,
1188 Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan. Electronic 
address: tomoyuki.kanda@kyowa-kirin.co.jp.

The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, istradefylline improves motor function in 
patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) optimally treated with a
combination of L-DOPA and a dopamine agonist without increasing the risk of
troublesome dyskinesia. However, the effects of istradefylline on motor function 
when administered in combination with low dose of L-DOPA and dopamine agonists as
occurs in early PD are unknown. We investigated whether istradefylline enhances
the combined anti-parkinsonian effects of a suboptimal dose of L-DOPA and a
threshold dose of either the non-ergot dopamine agonist, ropinirole or the ergot 
dopamine agonist, pergolide in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated common marmoset. Threshold doses of ropinirole (0.025-0.075 mg/kg 
p.o.) and pergolide (0.01 mg/kg p.o.) produced a weak anti-parkinsonian effect.
Co-administration of a suboptimal dose of L-DOPA (2.5mg/kg p.o.) with threshold
doses of the dopamine agonists enhanced their anti-parkinsonian effect that led
to increased 'ON' time without dyskinesia appearing. Administering istradefylline
(10mg/kg p.o.) with the threshold doses of dopamine agonists and the suboptimal
dose of L-DOPA in a triple combination caused a further enhancement of the
anti-parkinsonian response but dyskinesia was still absent. In early PD, dopamine
agonists are often used as first-line monotherapy, but efficacy is usually lost
within a few years, at which time L-DOPA is added but with the risk of dyskinesia
appearance. These results show that istradefylline is effective in improving
motor function in combination with low dose dopaminergic drug treatment without
provoking dyskinesia.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2015.09.028 
PMID: 26415982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

