

1165. PLoS One. 2015 Sep 23;10(9):e0138308. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138308.
eCollection 2015.

Corticospinal Tract Tracing in the Marmoset with a Clinical Whole-Body 3T Scanner
Using Manganese-Enhanced MRI.

Demain B(1), Davoust C(2), Plas B(3), Bolan F(2), Boulanouar K(2), Renaud L(4),
Darmana R(2), Vaysse L(2), Vieu C(5), Loubinoux I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps neurologiques, UMR 825, F-31024,
Toulouse, France; Université de Toulouse, UPS, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps
neurologiques, UMR 825, CHU Purpan, Place du Dr Baylac, F-31059, Toulouse, Cedex 
9, France; CNRS-LAAS, 7 avenue du colonel Roche, F-31077, Toulouse, France.
(2)Inserm, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps neurologiques, UMR 825, F-31024,
Toulouse, France; Université de Toulouse, UPS, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps
neurologiques, UMR 825, CHU Purpan, Place du Dr Baylac, F-31059, Toulouse, Cedex 
9, France.
(3)Inserm, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps neurologiques, UMR 825, F-31024,
Toulouse, France; Université de Toulouse, UPS, Imagerie cérébrale et handicaps
neurologiques, UMR 825, CHU Purpan, Place du Dr Baylac, F-31059, Toulouse, Cedex 
9, France; Pôle Neurosciences, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Toulouse,
Toulouse, France.
(4)CNRS, Centre de Recherche Cerveau & Cognition, UMR 5549, F-31024, Toulouse,
France.
(5)CNRS-LAAS, 7 avenue du colonel Roche, F-31077, Toulouse, France.

Manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI) has been described as a powerful tool to depict
the architecture of neuronal circuits. In this study we investigated the
potential use of in vivo MRI detection of manganese for tracing neuronal
projections from the primary motor cortex (M1) in healthy marmosets (Callithrix
Jacchus). We determined the optimal dose of manganese chloride (MnCl2) among 800,
400, 40 and 8 nmol that led to manganese-induced hyperintensity furthest from the
injection site, as specific to the corticospinal tract as possible, and that
would not induce motor deficit. A commonly available 3T human clinical MRI
scanner and human knee coil were used to follow hyperintensity in the
corticospinal tract 24h after injection. A statistical parametric map of seven
marmosets injected with the chosen dose, 8 nmol, showed the corticospinal tract
and M1 connectivity with the basal ganglia, substantia nigra and thalamus. Safety
was determined for the lowest dose that did not induce dexterity and grip
strength deficit, and no behavioral effects could be seen in marmosets who
received multiple injections of manganese one month apart. In conclusion, our
study shows for the first time in marmosets, a reliable and reproducible way to
perform longitudinal ME-MRI experiments to observe the integrity of the marmoset 
corticospinal tract on a clinical 3T MRI scanner.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138308 
PMCID: PMC4580626
PMID: 26398500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

