

1174. J Med Microbiol. 2015 Sep;64(9):1063-1073. doi: 10.1099/jmm.0.000113. Epub 2015
Jun 30.

Isolation and characterization of a novel Helicobacter species, Helicobacter
jaachi sp. nov., from common marmosets (Callithrix jaachus).

Shen Z(1), Feng Y(1), Sheh A(1), Everitt J(2), Bertram F(2), Paster BJ(3), Fox
JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA, USA.
(2)GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.
(3)The Forsyth Institute, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Purpose-bred common marmosets from domestic sources housed in a US research
facility, and used in multiple drug discovery programmes, were noted to have a
high incidence of spontaneous inflammatory bowel disease and sporadic
cholecystitis and cholangiohepatitis. Inflammatory infiltrates increased in
incidence and severity with age. Because Helicobacter spp. have been linked to
gastrointestinal diseases, samples from the gastrointestinal tracts of 39
marmosets were screened for Helicobacter spp. by culture and PCR. Helicobacter
spp. were frequently detected in marmosets; 28.2% of the marmosets were positive 
for a proposed novel species, Helicobacter jaachi sp. nov., by culture, and 48.7%
were positive by Helicobacter genus-specific PCR. Seventeen strains of
Helicobacter sp. from 11 marmosets were cultured from various gastrointestinal
sites. Older animals (age 6-11 years) had a higher helicobacter prevalence rate
(57.1%) compared with younger animals (age 3-5 years), which had a 27.2%
prevalence rate. Cells of H. jaachi sp. nov. were catalase, urease and oxidase
positive and had fusiform morphology, with periplasmic fibres and multiple
bipolar, sheathed flagella. All isolates had similar 16S and 23S rRNA sequences, 
which clustered as representatives of a novel Helicobacter species closely
related to 'Helicobacter sanguini' (97%), a species isolated from cotton-top
tamarins and 'Helicobacter callitrichis' (96%) isolated previously from the
faeces of common marmosets. The whole genome sequence of one of the liver
isolates, H. jaachi sp. nov. MIT 09-6949(T), had a 1.9 Mb genome length with a 41
mol% DNA G+C content. The type strain of Helicobacter jaachi sp. nov., MIT
09-6949(T), has been deposited in the BCCM/LMG Bacteria Collection as LMG
28613(T). These findings add to the increasing number of animal species with
gastrointestinal disease in which novel enterohepatic Helicobacter spp. have been
isolated.

DOI: 10.1099/jmm.0.000113 
PMCID: PMC4681044
PMID: 26297446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

