

1175. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2015 Aug 22;6:150. doi: 10.1186/s13287-015-0146-6.

Molecular and cellular characteristics of human and non-human primate multipotent
stromal cells from the amnion and bone marrow during long term culture.

Pogozhykh O(1), Pogozhykh D(2), Neehus AL(3), Hoffmann A(4), Blasczyk R(5),
Müller T(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany. pogozhykh.olena@mh-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany. pogozhykh.denys@mh-hannover.de.
(3)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany. neehus.anna-lena@mh-hannover.de.
(4)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hannover Medical School,
Anna-von-Borries-Straße 1-7, 30625, Hannover, Germany.
hoffmann.andrea@mh-hannover.de.
(5)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany.
transfusionsmedizin@mh-hannover.de.
(6)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 30625, Hannover, Germany. mueller.thomas@mh-hannover.de.

INTRODUCTION: Multipotent stromal cells (MSCs) are among the key candidates in
regenerative medicine. However variety of MSC sources and general heterogeneity
lead to controversial data in functional characterization. Furthermore, despite
intensive usage as preclinical animal model, little is known about MSCs of the
common marmoset monkey.
METHODS: MSCs derived from placental amnion and bone marrow samples from human
and common marmoset were characterized in parallel over 12 passages to monitor
similarities and significant differences (p ≤ 0.05, Student's t-test) in MSC
markers and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I expression by
immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, real-time PCR, metabolic activity test,
with special focus on pluripotency associated genes.
RESULTS: Human and non-human primate MSCs were characterized for expression of
MSC markers and capability of differentiation into mesenchymal lineages. MSCs
could be cultured more than 100 days (26 passages), but metabolic activity was
significantly enhanced in amnion vs. bone marrow MSCs. Interestingly, MHC class I
expression is significantly reduced in amnion MSCs until passage 6 in human and
marmoset, but not in bone marrow cells. For MSC markers, CD73 and CD105 levels
remain unchanged in amnion MSCs and slightly decline in bone marrow at late
passages; CD166 is significantly higher expressed in human MSCs, CD106
significantly lower vs. marmoset. All cultured MSCs showed pluripotency marker
expression like Oct-4A at passage 3 significantly decreasing over time (passages 
6-12) while Nanog expression was highest in human bone marrow MSCs. Furthermore, 
human MSCs demonstrated the highest Sox2 levels vs. marmoset, whereas the
marmoset exhibited significantly higher Lin28A values. Bisulfite sequencing of
the Oct-4 promoter region displayed fewer methylations of CpG islands in the
marmoset vs. human.
CONCLUSIONS: Little is known about MSC characteristics from the preclinical
animal model common marmoset vs. human during long term culture. Studied human
and common marmoset samples share many similar features such as most MSC markers 
and reduced MHC class I expression in amnion cells vs. bone marrow. Furthermore, 
pluripotency markers indicate in both species a subpopulation of MSCs with true
'stemness', which could explain their high proliferation capacity, though
possessing differences between human and marmoset in Lin28A and Sox2 expression.

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-015-0146-6 
PMCID: PMC4546288
PMID: 26297012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

