

1176. J Virol. 2015 Nov;89(21):10901-11. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01884-15. Epub 2015 Aug 19.

Herpesvirus saimiri MicroRNAs Preferentially Target Host Cell Cycle Regulators.

Guo YE(1), Oei T(1), Steitz JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA
joan.steitz@yale.edu.

In latently infected marmoset T cells, Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) expresses six
microRNAs (known as miR-HSURs [H. saimiri U-rich RNAs]). The viral miR-HSURs are 
processed from chimeric primary transcripts, each containing a noncoding U-rich
RNA (HSUR) and a pre-miRNA hairpin. To uncover the functions of miR-HSURs, we
identified mRNA targets in infected cells using high-throughput sequencing of RNA
isolated by cross-linking immunoprecipitation (HITS-CLIP). HITS-CLIP revealed
hundreds of robust Argonaute (Ago) binding sites mediated by miR-HSURs that map
to the host genome but few in the HVS genome. Gene ontology analysis showed that 
several pathways regulating the cell cycle are enriched among cellular targets of
miR-HSURs. Interestingly, miR-HSUR4-3p represses expression of the p300
transcriptional coactivator by binding the open reading frame of its mRNA.
miR-HSUR5-3p directly regulates BiP, an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-localized
chaperone facilitating maturation of major histocompatibility complex class I
(MHC-I) and the antiviral response. miR-HSUR5-3p also robustly downregulates
WEE1, a key negative regulator of cell cycle progression, leading to reduced
phosphorylation of its substrate, cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk1). Consistently,
inhibition of miR-HSUR5-3p in HVS-infected cells decreases their proliferation.
Together, our results shed light on the roles of viral miRNAs in cellular
transformation and viral latency.IMPORTANCE: Viruses express miRNAs during
various stages of infection, suggesting that viral miRNAs play critical roles in 
the viral life cycle. Compared to protein-coding genes, the functions of viral
miRNAs are not well understood. This is because it has been challenging to
identify their mRNA targets. Here, we focused on the functions of the recently
discovered HVS miRNAs, called miR-HSURs. HVS is an oncogenic gammaherpesvirus
that causes acute T-cell lymphomas and leukemias in New World primates and
transforms human T cells. A better understanding of HVS biology will help advance
our knowledge of virus-induced oncogenesis. Because numerous cellular miRNAs play
crucial roles in cancer, viral miRNAs from the highly oncogenic HVS might also be
important for transformation. Here, we found that the miR-HSURs preferentially
modulate expression of host cell cycle regulators, as well as antiviral response 
factors. Our work provides further insight into the functions of herpesviral
miRNAs in virus-induced oncogenesis and latency.

Copyright Â© 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01884-15 
PMCID: PMC4621106
PMID: 26292323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

