

1177. MAbs. 2015;7(6):1151-60. doi: 10.1080/19420862.2015.1081323. Epub 2015 Aug 18.

The molecular mode of action and species specificity of canakinumab, a human
monoclonal antibody neutralizing IL-1β.

Rondeau JM(1), Ramage P(1), Zurini M(1), Gram H(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research ; Basel , Switzerland.

Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) plays a key role in autoinflammatory diseases, such as
systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA) or cryopyrin-associated periodic
syndrome (CAPS). Canakinumab, a human monoclonal anti-IL-1β antibody, was
recently approved for human use under the brand name Ilaris®. Canakinumab does
not cross-react with IL-1β from mouse, rat, rabbit, or macaques. The crystal
structure of the canakinumab Fab bound to human IL-1β was determined in an
attempt to rationalize the species specificity. The X-ray analysis reveals a
complex surface epitope with an intricate network of well-ordered water molecules
at the antibody-antigen interface. The canakinumab paratope is largely
pre-organized, as demonstrated by the structure determination of the free Fab.
Glu 64 of human IL-1β is a pivotal epitope residue explaining the exquisite
species specificity of canakinumab. We identified marmoset as the only non-human 
primate species that carries Glu 64 in its IL-1β and demonstrates full
cross-reactivity of canakinumab, thereby enabling toxicological studies in this
species. As demonstrated by the X-ray structure of the complex with IL-1β,
canakinumab binds IL-1β on the opposite side with respect to the IL-1RAcP binding
site, and in an approximately orthogonal orientation with respect to IL-1RI.
However, the antibody and IL-1RI binding sites slightly overlap and the VH region
of canakinumab would sterically interfere with the D1 domain of IL-1RI, as shown 
by a structural overlay with the IL-1β:IL-1RI complex. Therefore, direct
competition with IL-1RI for IL-1β binding is the molecular mechanism of
neutralization by canakinumab, which is also confirmed by competition assays with
recombinant IL-1RI and IL-1RII.

DOI: 10.1080/19420862.2015.1081323 
PMCID: PMC4966334
PMID: 26284424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

