

118. Drug Metab Dispos. 2021 Sep;49(9):718-728. doi: 10.1124/dmd.121.000513. Epub 2021
Jun 16.

Differences in Hydrolase Activities in the Liver and Small Intestine between
Marmosets and Humans.

Honda S(1), Fukami T(2), Hirosawa K(1), Tsujiguchi T(1), Zhang Y(1), Nakano M(1),
Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Yamazaki H(1), Nakajima M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Drug Metabolism and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences (S.H.,
T.F., K.H., T.T., Ma.N., Mi.N.), WPI Nano Life Science Institute (WPI-NanoLSI)
(T.F., Y.Z., Ma.N., Mi.N.), Kanazawa University, Kanazawa, Japan; Clinical
Pharmacokinetics Laboratory, School of Basic Medicine and Clinical Pharmacy,
China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, China (Y.Z.); Laboratory of Drug
Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Japan 
(S.U., H.Y.); Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan (S.U.);
Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Japan (Y.U.); and Joint
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Japan (Y.U.).
(2)Drug Metabolism and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences (S.H.,
T.F., K.H., T.T., Ma.N., Mi.N.), WPI Nano Life Science Institute (WPI-NanoLSI)
(T.F., Y.Z., Ma.N., Mi.N.), Kanazawa University, Kanazawa, Japan; Clinical
Pharmacokinetics Laboratory, School of Basic Medicine and Clinical Pharmacy,
China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, China (Y.Z.); Laboratory of Drug
Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Japan 
(S.U., H.Y.); Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan (S.U.);
Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Japan (Y.U.); and Joint
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Japan (Y.U.)
tatsuki@p.kanazawa-u.ac.jp.

For drug development, species differences in drug-metabolism reactions present
obstacles for predicting pharmacokinetics in humans. We characterized the species
differences in hydrolases among humans and mice, rats, dogs, and cynomolgus
monkeys. In this study, to expand the series of such studies, we attempted to
characterize marmoset hydrolases. We measured hydrolase activities for 24
compounds using marmoset liver and intestinal microsomes, as well as recombinant 
marmoset carboxylesterase (CES) 1, CES2, and arylacetamide deacetylase (AADAC).
The contributions of CES1, CES2, and AADAC to hydrolysis in marmoset liver
microsomes were estimated by correcting the activities by using the ratios of
hydrolase protein levels in the liver microsomes and those in recombinant
systems. For six out of eight human CES1 substrates, the activities in marmoset
liver microsomes were lower than those in human liver microsomes. For two human
CES2 substrates and three out of seven human AADAC substrates, the activities in 
marmoset liver microsomes were higher than those in human liver microsomes.
Notably, among the three rifamycins, only rifabutin was hydrolyzed by marmoset
tissue microsomes and recombinant AADAC. The activities for all substrates in
marmoset intestinal microsomes tended to be lower than those in liver microsomes,
which suggests that the first-pass effects of the CES and AADAC substrates are
due to hepatic hydrolysis. In most cases, the sums of the values of the
contributions of CES1, CES2, and AADAC were below 100%, which indicated the
involvement of other hydrolases in marmosets. In conclusion, we clarified the
substrate preferences of hydrolases in marmosets. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This
study confirmed that there are large differences in hydrolase activities between 
humans and marmosets by characterizing marmoset hydrolase activities for
compounds that are substrates of human CES1, CES2, or arylacetamide deacetylase. 
The data obtained in this study may be useful for considering whether marmosets
are appropriate for examining the pharmacokinetics and efficacies of new chemical
entities in preclinical studies.

Copyright Â© 2021 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.121.000513 
PMID: 34135089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

