

1182. Vet Res Commun. 2015 Sep;39(3):171-7. doi: 10.1007/s11259-015-9641-6. Epub 2015
Aug 6.

Tissue-specific expression pattern and histological distribution of NLRP3 in
Chinese yellow chicken.

Ye J(1), Yu M, Zhang K, Liu J, Wang Q, Tao P, Jia K, Liao M, Ning Z.

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, South China Agricultural University,
Guangzhou, 510642, People's Republic of China.

Pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) play important role in
inflammation which means response of the host to stimuli. NOD-like receptor
protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome is involved in the onset and development of
inflammation. NLRP3, as one of the most important inflammasome sensors, has
significant effect on the regulation of inflammasome activation to avoid the
consequences of over activation. Up to date, there are no detailed tissue
specific expression and distribution data about NLPR3 in chicken. Here, NLRP3 of 
Chinese yellow chicken was cloned and sequence analyzed, the polyclonal antibody 
was produced by purified protein of recombinant prokaryotic expression. Relative 
expression levels and tissue distribution of NLRP3 were investigated by real-time
quantitative PCR and immunohistochemical analysis, respectively. The results
showed that NLRP3 gene is highly variable between mammalian and avian. The
nucleotide homology of NLRP3 between yellow chicken and Bos taurus, Hainan black 
goat, Sus scrofa, Callithrix jacchus, Homo sapiens, Macaca mulatta, Mus musculus 
and Rattus norvegicus were 54.2%, 53.9%, 53.7%, 55.4%, 54.3%, 54.5%, 53.5% and
53.7%. NLRP3 expressed in all detected tissues and higher in the trachea are lung
than in other tissues. Cytoplasmic expression of NLRP3 was detected in ciliated
epithelial cells, basal cells and cells in lamina propria of trachea, alveolar
epithelial cells, cardiac muscle cells, cerebral cortex neurons, epithelial
reticular cells of the spleen, and lymphocytes of medulla in stannius follicle,
liver cells and the renal tubule epithelial cells. The results will help to
elucidate the role of NLRP3 of different tissues in inflammatory diseases of
chicken and provide a basis for further investigations in the function and
evolution of NLRP3 in different species, which would be helpful for further
research on avian inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s11259-015-9641-6 
PMID: 26246158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

