

1184. Physiol Behav. 2015 Nov 1;151:246-51. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2015.07.034. Epub
2015 Jul 29.

Strongly bonded family members in common marmosets show synchronized fluctuations
in oxytocin.

Finkenwirth C(1), van Schaik C(2), Ziegler TE(3), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
christa.finkenwirth@uzh.ch.
(2)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
WI 53715, USA.

Oxytocin is a key regulator of social bonding and is positively linked to
affiliation and prosocial behavior in several mammal species. In chimpanzees,
this link is dyad-specific as affiliative interactions only elicit high oxytocin 
release if they involve strongly bonded individuals. These studies involved
isolated dyads and sampling events. Little is known about the role of oxytocin in
affiliation and social bonding, and about potential long-term patterns of
bonding-related and dyad-specific oxytocin effects within highly affiliative and 
cooperative social groups. Our aim was to investigate whether bonding-related
oxytocin signatures linked to dyadic affiliation are present in family groups of 
cooperatively breeding marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) that show high
levels of cohesion and cooperation. In 30 dyads from four family groups and one
pair, we measured urinary baseline oxytocin over six weeks and analyzed the link 
to bond strength (mean dyadic affiliation). Strongly bonded dyads showed
synchronized longitudinal fluctuations of oxytocin, indicating that dyad-specific
oxytocin effects can also be traced in the group context and in an interdependent
species. We discuss these results in light of the potential function of
differentiated relationships between marmoset dyads other than the breeding pair,
and the role of oxytocin as a mediator for social bonding.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2015.07.034 
PMCID: PMC5916785
PMID: 26232089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

