

1185. Drug Metab Dispos. 2015 Oct;43(10):1408-16. doi: 10.1124/dmd.115.066100. Epub
2015 Jul 30.

Novel Marmoset Cytochrome P450 2C19 in Livers Efficiently Metabolizes Human P450 
2C9 and 2C19 Substrates, S-Warfarin, Tolbutamide, Flurbiprofen, and Omeprazole.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Kawano M(1), Shimizu M(1), Toda A(1), Utoh
M(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.K., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U., A.T., M.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and 
Center of Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio
University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.K., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and 
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U., A.T., M.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and 
Center of Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio
University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World monkey, has the
potential for use in human drug development due to its evolutionary closeness to 
humans. Four novel cDNAs, encoding cytochrome P450 (P450) 2C18, 2C19, 2C58, and
2C76, were cloned from marmoset livers to characterize P450 2C molecular
properties, including previously reported P450 2C8. The deduced amino acid
sequence showed high sequence identities (>86%) with those of human P450 2Cs,
except for marmoset P450 2C76, which has a low sequence identity (∼70%) with any 
human P450 2Cs. Phylogenetic analysis showed that marmoset P450 2Cs were more
closely clustered with those of humans and macaques than other species
investigated. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that all of 
the marmoset P450 2C mRNAs were predominantly expressed in liver as opposed to
the other tissues tested. Marmoset P450 2C proteins were detected in liver by
immunoblotting using antibodies against human P450 2Cs. Among marmoset P450 2Cs
heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli, marmoset P450 2C19 efficiently
catalyzed human P450 2C substrates, S-warfarin, diclofenac, tolbutamide,
flurbiprofen, and omeprazole. Marmoset P450 2C19 had high Vmax and low Km values 
for S-warfarin 7-hydroxylation that were comparable to those in human liver
microsomes, indicating warfarin stereoselectivity similar to findings in humans. 
Faster in vivo S-warfarin clearance than R-warfarin after intravenous
administration of racemic warfarin (0.2 mg/kg) to marmosets was consistent with
the in vitro kinetic parameters. These results indicated that marmoset P450 2C
enzymes had functional characteristics similar to those of humans, and that P450 
2C-dependent metabolic properties are likewise similar between marmosets and
humans.

Copyright © 2015 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.115.066100 
PMID: 26228688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

