

1187. J Infect Dis. 2015 Oct 1;212 Suppl 2:S336-45. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiv371. Epub
2015 Jul 23.

Experimental Respiratory Infection of Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) With Ebola
Virus Kikwit.

Smither SJ(1), Nelson M(1), Eastaugh L(1), Nunez A(2), Salguero FJ(3), Lever
MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology Group, CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory
(Dstl), Salisbury.
(2)Pathology Department, Veterinary Laboratories Agency-Weybridge, Addlestone.
(3)Department of Pathology and Infectious Diseases, School of Veterinary
Medicine, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey,
Guildford, United Kingdom.

Ebola virus (EBOV) causes a highly infectious and lethal hemorrhagic fever in
primates with high fatality rates during outbreaks and EBOV may be exploited as a
potential biothreat pathogen. There is therefore a need to develop and license
appropriate medical countermeasures against this virus. To determine whether the 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) would be an appropriate model to assess
vaccines or therapies against EBOV disease (EVD), initial susceptibility,
lethality and pathogenesis studies were performed. Low doses of EBOV-Kikwit,
between 4 and 27 times the 50% tissue culture infectious dose, were sufficient to
cause a lethal, reproducible infection. Animals became febrile between days 5 and
6, maintaining a high fever before succumbing to EVD between 6 and 8 days after
challenge. Typical signs of EVD were observed. Pathogenesis studies revealed that
virus was isolated from the lungs of animals beginning on day 3 after challenge
and from the liver, spleen and blood beginning on day 5. The most striking
features were observed in animals that succumbed to infection, including high
viral titers in all organs, increased levels of liver function enzymes and blood 
clotting times, decreased levels of platelets, multifocal moderate to severe
hepatitis, and perivascular edema.

Â© Crown copyright 2015.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiv371 
PMID: 26209682  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

