

119. J Neurophysiol. 2021 Jul 1;126(1):330-339. doi: 10.1152/jn.00078.2021. Epub 2021 
Jun 16.

Ketamine disrupts gaze patterns during face viewing in the common marmoset.

Selvanayagam J(1)(2), Johnston KD(3)(2), Wong RK(1)(2), Schaeffer D(4), Everling 
S(1)(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Center for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Western University, London,
Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.

Faces are stimuli of critical importance for primates. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) is a promising model for investigations of face processing, 
as this species possesses oculomotor and face-processing networks resembling
those of macaques and humans. Face processing is often disrupted in
neuropsychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia (SZ), and thus, it is important
to recapitulate underlying circuitry dysfunction preclinically. The
N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) noncompetitive antagonist ketamine has been used
extensively to model the cognitive symptoms of SZ. Here, we investigated the
effects of a subanesthetic dose of ketamine on oculomotor behavior in marmosets
during face viewing. Four marmosets received systemic ketamine or saline
injections while viewing phase-scrambled or intact videos of conspecifics' faces.
To evaluate effects of ketamine on scan paths during face viewing, we identified 
regions of interest in each face video and classified locations of saccade onsets
and landing positions within these areas. A preference for the snout over eye
regions was observed following ketamine administration. In addition, regions in
which saccades landed could be significantly predicted by saccade onset region in
the saline but not the ketamine condition. Effects on saccade control were
limited to an increase in saccade peak velocity in all conditions and a reduction
in saccade amplitudes during viewing of scrambled videos. Thus, ketamine induced 
a significant disruption of scan paths during viewing of conspecific faces but
limited effects on saccade motor control. These findings support the use of
ketamine in marmosets for investigating changes in neural circuits underlying
social cognition in neuropsychiatric disorders.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Face processing, 
an important social cognitive ability, is impaired in neuropsychiatric conditions
such as schizophrenia. The highly social common marmoset model presents an
opportunity to investigate these impairments. We administered subanesthetic doses
of ketamine to marmosets to model the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. We
observed a disruption of scan paths during viewing of conspecifics' faces. These 
findings support the use of ketamine in marmosets as a model for investigating
social cognition in neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00078.2021 
PMID: 34133232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

