

1197. Mitochondrial DNA A DNA Mapp Seq Anal. 2016 Jul;27(4):2943-4. doi:
10.3109/19401736.2015.1060452. Epub 2015 Jul 10.

Complete mitochondrial genome of Callithrix kuhlii (Primates: Callitrichinae)
with phylogenetic consideration.

Zhang X(1)(2), Pan F(3), Wu ZW(4).

Author information: 
(1)a The Union Projection Department , Military Transportation University ,
Tianjin , China .
(2)b Institute of Transportation Engineering, Tsinghua University , Beijing ,
China .
(3)c Institute of Military Transportation, Military Transportation University ,
Tianjin , China , and.
(4)d The Basic Course Department , Armed Police Engineering College , Xi'an ,
China.

The Wied's black-tufted-ear marmoset, Callithrix kuhlii, is a New World monkey
that lives in tropical and subtropical forests of eastern Brazil. In this study, 
the mitochondrial genome sequence of this species is determined, which is found
to be 16 500 bp in length and consists of 22 transfer RNA genes, 13
protein-coding genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes and one D-loop control region. The
overall nucleotide composition is 32.73% of A, 26.80% of T, 27.04% of C and
13.43% of G, with an AT content of 59.53%. The genome structure about gene order 
and composition of C. kuhlii mitochondrial genome is similar to those of most
other vertebrates. With the exception of the NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6 (ND6)
and eight tRNA genes, all the other genes are encoded on the heavy strand.
Phylogenetic analysis shows that C. kuhlii and C. jacchus are more closely
related to each other than to other marmosets of the genus Callithrix that have
its mitochondrial genome published.

DOI: 10.3109/19401736.2015.1060452 
PMID: 26162052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

