

1200. Neuroimage. 2015 Oct 15;120:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2015.06.090. Epub
2015 Jul 3.

Functional MRI of visual responses in the awake, behaving marmoset.

Hung CC(1), Yen CC(2), Ciuchta JL(2), Papoti D(2), Bock NA(3), Leopold DA(4),
Silva AC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA; Section on Cognitive
Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of Neuropsychology, National Institute of
Mental Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA.
(3)Medical Physics and Applied Radiation Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton,
Ontario, L8S 4K1, Canada.
(4)Section on Cognitive Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA;
Neurophysiology Imaging Facility, National Institute of Mental Health, National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Eye Institute, Bethesda,
MD, 20892, USA.
(5)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892, USA. Electronic address:
SilvaA@ninds.nih.gov.

The visual brain is composed of interconnected subcortical and cortical
structures that receive and process image information originating in the retina. 
The visual system of nonhuman primates, in particular macaques, has been studied 
in great detail in order to elucidate principles of human sensation and
perception. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World monkey 
of growing interest as a primate model for neuroscience. Marmosets have
advantages over macaques because of their small size, lissencephalic cortex, and 
growing potential for viral and genetic manipulations. Previous anatomical
studies and electrophysiological recordings in anesthetized marmosets have shown 
that this species' cortical visual hierarchy closely resembles that of other
primates, including humans. Until now, however, there have been no attempts to
systematically study visual responses throughout the marmoset brain using fMRI.
Here we show that awake marmosets readily learn to carry out a simple visual task
inside the bore of an MRI scanner during functional mapping experiments.
Functional scanning at 500 Î¼m in-plane resolution in a 30 cm horizontal bore at 7
T revealed robust positive blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) fMRI
responses to visual stimuli throughout visual cortex and associated subcortical
areas. Nonvisual sensory areas showed negative contrasts to visual stimuli
compared to the fixation dot only baseline. Structured images of objects and
faces led to stronger responses than scrambled control images at stages beyond
early visual cortex. Our study establishes fMRI mapping of visual responses in
awake, behaving marmosets as a straightforward and valuable tool for assessing
the functional organization of the primate brain at high resolution.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2015.06.090 
PMCID: PMC4589494
PMID: 26149609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

