

1205. J Acoust Soc Am. 2015 Jun;137(6):3068-76. doi: 10.1121/1.4921607.

The source-filter theory of whistle-like calls in marmosets: Acoustic analysis
and simulation of helium-modulated voices.

Koda H(1), Tokuda IT(2), Wakita M(1), Ito T(3), Nishimura T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Shiga
525-8577, Japan.
(3)Department of Human Biology and Anatomy, Graduate School of Medicine,
University of the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Okinawa 903-0215, Japan.

Whistle-like high-pitched "phee" calls are often used as long-distance vocal
advertisements by small-bodied marmosets and tamarins in the dense forests of
South America. While the source-filter theory proposes that vibration of the
vocal fold is modified independently from the resonance of the supralaryngeal
vocal tract (SVT) in human speech, a source-filter coupling that constrains the
vibration frequency to SVT resonance effectively produces loud tonal sounds in
some musical instruments. Here, a combined approach of acoustic analyses and
simulation with helium-modulated voices was used to show that phee calls are
produced principally with the same mechanism as in human speech. The animal keeps
the fundamental frequency (f0) close to the first formant (F1) of the SVT, to
amplify f0. Although f0 and F1 are primarily independent, the degree of their
tuning can be strengthened further by a flexible source-filter interaction, the
variable strength of which depends upon the cross-sectional area of the laryngeal
cavity. The results highlight the evolutionary antiquity and universality of the 
source-filter model in primates, but the study can also explore the
diversification of vocal physiology, including source-filter interaction and its 
anatomical basis in non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1121/1.4921607 
PMID: 26093398  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

