

1209. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Aug;114(2):1158-71. doi: 10.1152/jn.01003.2014. Epub 2015
Jun 17.

Responses of primate frontal cortex neurons during natural vocal communication.

Miller CT(1), Thomas AW(2), Nummela SU(3), de la Mothe LA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California; Neurosciences Graduate Program,
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California; corymiller@ucsd.edu.
(2)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California; Helen Wills Neuroscience Graduate
Program, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California; and.
(3)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California;
(4)Department of Psychology, Tennessee State University, Nashville, Tennessee.

The role of primate frontal cortex in vocal communication and its significance in
language evolution have a controversial history. While evidence indicates that
vocalization processing occurs in ventrolateral prefrontal cortex neurons,
vocal-motor activity has been conjectured to be primarily subcortical and
suggestive of a distinctly different neural architecture from humans. Direct
evidence of neural activity during natural vocal communication is limited, as
previous studies were performed in chair-restrained animals. Here we recorded the
activity of single neurons across multiple regions of prefrontal and premotor
cortex while freely moving marmosets engaged in a natural vocal behavior known as
antiphonal calling. Our aim was to test whether neurons in marmoset frontal
cortex exhibited responses during vocal-signal processing and/or vocal-motor
production in the context of active, natural communication. We observed
motor-related changes in single neuron activity during vocal production, but
relatively weak sensory responses for vocalization processing during this natural
behavior. Vocal-motor responses occurred both prior to and during call production
and were typically coupled to the timing of each vocalization pulse. Despite the 
relatively weak sensory responses a population classifier was able to distinguish
between neural activity that occurred during presentations of vocalization
stimuli that elicited an antiphonal response and those that did not. These
findings are suggestive of the role that nonhuman primate frontal cortex neurons 
play in natural communication and provide an important foundation for more
explicit tests of the functional contributions of these neocortical areas during 
vocal behaviors.

Copyright Â© 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01003.2014 
PMCID: PMC4725106
PMID: 26084912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

