

1214. Growth Horm IGF Res. 2015 Aug;25(4):158-67. doi: 10.1016/j.ghir.2015.06.004. Epub
2015 Jun 6.

Coevolution of insulin-like growth factors, insulin and their receptors and
binding proteins in New World Monkeys.

Wallis M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biochemistry and Biomedicine Group, School of Life Sciences, University of
Sussex, Falmer, Brighton BN1 9QG, UK. Electronic address: M.Wallis@sussex.ac.uk.

Previous work has shown that the evolution of both insulin-like growth factor 1
(IGF1) and insulin shows an episode of accelerated change on the branch leading
to New World Monkeys (NWM). Here the possibility that this is accompanied by a
corresponding episode of accelerated evolution of IGF1 receptor (IGF1R), insulin 
receptor (IR) and/or IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) was investigated. Analysis of 
receptor sequences from a range of primates and some non-primate mammals showed
that accelerated evolution did indeed occur on this branch in the case of IGF1R
and IR, but not for the similar insulin receptor-related receptor (IRRR) which
does not bind insulin or IGF1. Marked accelerated evolution on this branch was
also seen for some IGFBPs, but not the mannose 6-phosphate/IGF2 receptor or
epidermal growth factor receptor. The rate of evolution slowed before divergence 
of the lineages leading to the NWM for which sequences are available (Callithrix 
and Saimiri). For the IGF1R and IR, the accelerated evolution was most marked for
the extracellular domains (ectodomains). Application of the branch-site method
showed dN/dS ratios significantly greater than 1.0 for both receptor ectodomains 
and for IGFBP1, and allowed identification of residues likely to have been
subject to selection. These residues were concentrated in the N-terminal half of 
the IGF1R ectodomain but the C-terminal half of the IR ectodomain, which could
have implications for the formation of hybrid receptors. Overall the results
suggest that adaptive coevolution of IGF1, insulin and their receptors and some
IGFBPs occurred during the evolution of NWM. For the most part, the residues that
change on this branch could not be associated with specific functional aspects
(ligand binding, receptor dimerization, glycosylation) and the physiological
significance of this coevolution remains to be established.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ghir.2015.06.004 
PMID: 26072449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

