

1218. J Anat. 2015 Jul;227(1):72-80. doi: 10.1111/joa.12327. Epub 2015 Jun 5.

Comparative analysis of Meissner's corpuscles in the fingertips of primates.

Verendeev A(1), Thomas C(1), McFarlin SC(1), Hopkins WD(2)(3), Phillips KA(4),
Sherwood CC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Center for the Advanced Study of Human
Paleobiology, The George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(2)Neuroscience Institute and Language Center, Georgia State University, Atlanta,
GA, USA.
(3)Division of Developmental and Cognitive Neuroscience, Yerkes National Primate 
Research Center, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Meissner's corpuscles (MCs) are tactile mechanoreceptors found in the glabrous
skin of primates, including fingertips. These receptors are characterized by
sensitivity to light touch, and therefore might be associated with the evolution 
of manipulative abilities of the hands in primates. We examined MCs in different 
primate species, including common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, n = 5), baboon
(Papio anubis, n = 2), rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta, n = 3), chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes, n = 3), bonobo (Pan paniscus, n = 1) and human (Homo sapiens,
n = 8). Fingertips of the first, second and fourth digits were collected from
both hands of specimens, dissected and histologically stained using hematoxylin
and eosin. The density (MCs per 1 mm(2) ) and the size (cross-sectional diameter 
of MCs) were quantified. Overall, there were no differences in the densities of
MCs or their size among the digits or between the hands for any species examined.
However, MCs varied across species. We found a trend for higher densities of MCs 
in macaques and humans compared with chimpanzees and bonobos; moreover, apes had 
larger MCs than monkeys. We further examined whether the density or size of MCs
varied as a function of body mass, measures of dexterity and dietary frugivory.
Among these variables, only body size accounted for a significant amount of
variation in the size of MCs.

© 2015 Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/joa.12327 
PMCID: PMC4475360
PMID: 26053332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

