

1221. J Neurophysiol. 2015 Aug;114(2):869-78. doi: 10.1152/jn.00152.2015. Epub 2015 Jun
3.

Spatial precision of population activity in primate area MT.

Chen SC(1), Morley JW(2), Solomon SG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, The University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; School of Medical
Sciences, The University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia;
spencer.chen@utexas.edu.
(2)School of Medicine, University of Western Sydney, Penrith, New South Wales,
Australia; and.
(3)School of Medical Sciences, The University of Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia; Institute for Behavioural Neuroscience, University College London,
London, United Kingdom.

The middle temporal (MT) area is a cortical area integral to the "where" pathway 
of primate visual processing, signaling the movement and position of objects in
the visual world. The receptive field of a single MT neuron is sensitive to the
direction of object motion but is too large to signal precise spatial position.
Here, we asked if the activity of MT neurons could be combined to support the
high spatial precision required in the where pathway. With the use of
multielectrode arrays, we recorded simultaneously neural activity at 24-65 sites 
in area MT of anesthetized marmoset monkeys. We found that although individual
receptive fields span more than 5° of the visual field, the combined population
response can support fine spatial discriminations (<0.2°). This is because
receptive fields at neighboring sites overlapped substantially, and changes in
spatial position are therefore projected onto neural activity in a large ensemble
of neurons. This fine spatial discrimination is supported primarily by neurons
with receptive fields flanking the target locations. Population performance is
degraded (by 13-22%) when correlations in neural activity are ignored, further
reflecting the contribution of population neural interactions. Our results show
that population signals can provide high spatial precision despite large
receptive fields, allowing area MT to represent both the motion and the position 
of objects in the visual world.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00152.2015 
PMCID: PMC4533107
PMID: 26041825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

