

1223. Stem Cells Transl Med. 2015 Jul;4(7):708-19. doi: 10.5966/sctm.2014-0215. Epub
2015 May 27.

Allogeneic Neural Stem/Progenitor Cells Derived From Embryonic Stem Cells Promote
Functional Recovery After Transplantation Into Injured Spinal Cord of Nonhuman
Primates.

Iwai H(1), Shimada H(1), Nishimura S(1), Kobayashi Y(1), Itakura G(1), Hori K(1),
Hikishima K(1), Ebise H(1), Negishi N(1), Shibata S(1), Habu S(1), Toyama Y(1),
Nakamura M(2), Okano H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery and Physiology, Keio University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan; Genomic Science Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Osaka, 
Japan; Department of Immunology, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Departments of Orthopaedic Surgery and Physiology, Keio University School of
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan; Genomic Science Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., Osaka, 
Japan; Department of Immunology, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan
hidokano@a2.keio.jp masa@a8.keio.jp.

: Previous studies have demonstrated that neural stem/progenitor cells (NS/PCs)
promote functional recovery in rodent animal models of spinal cord injury (SCI). 
Because distinct differences exist in the neuroanatomy and immunological
responses between rodents and primates, it is critical to determine the
effectiveness and safety of allografted embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived NS/PCs 
(ESC-NS/PCs) in a nonhuman primate SCI model. In the present study, common
marmoset ESC-NS/PCs were grafted into the lesion epicenter 14 days after
contusive SCI in adult marmosets (transplantation group). In the control group,
phosphate-buffered saline was injected instead of cells. In the presence of a
low-dose of tacrolimus, several grafted cells survived without tumorigenicity and
differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, or oligodendrocytes. Significant
differences were found in the transverse areas of luxol fast blue-positive myelin
sheaths, neurofilament-positive axons, corticospinal tract fibers, and platelet
endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1-positive vessels at the lesion epicenter
between the transplantation and control groups. Immunoelectron microscopic
examination demonstrated that the grafted ESC-NS/PC-derived oligodendrocytes
contributed to the remyelination of demyelinated axons. In addition, some grafted
neurons formed synaptic connections with host cells, and some transplanted
neurons were myelinated by host cells. Eventually, motor functional recovery
significantly improved in the transplantation group compared with the control
group. In addition, a mixed lymphocyte reaction assay indicated that ESC-NS/PCs
modulated the allogeneic immune rejection. Taken together, our results indicate
that allogeneic transplantation of ESC-NS/PCs from a nonhuman primate promoted
functional recovery after SCI without tumorigenicity.SIGNIFICANCE: This study
demonstrates that allogeneic embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived neural
stem/progenitor cells (NS/PCs) promoted functional recovery after transplantation
into the injured spinal cord in nonhuman primates. ESC-NS/PCs were chosen because
ESC-NS/PCs are one of the controls for induced pluripotent stem cell-derived
NS/PCs and because ESC derivatives are possible candidates for clinical use. This
translational research using an allograft model of a nonhuman primate is critical
for clinical application of grafting NS/PCs derived from various allogeneic
pluripotent stem cells, especially induced pluripotent stem cells, into injured
spinal cord at the subacute phase.

Â©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.5966/sctm.2014-0215 
PMCID: PMC4479619
PMID: 26019226 

