

1229. Cryobiology. 2015 Aug;71(1):103-11. doi: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2015.05.001. Epub
2015 May 14.

Multipotent stromal cells derived from common marmoset Callithrix jacchus within 
alginate 3D environment: Effect of cryopreservation procedures.

Gryshkov O(1), Hofmann N(2), Lauterboeck L(3), Pogozhykh D(4), Mueller T(5),
Glasmacher B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
gryshkov@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(2)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
hofmann@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(3)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
lauterboeck@imp.uni-hannover.de.
(4)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
Pogozhykh.Denys@mh-hannover.de.
(5)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School,
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
mueller.thomas@mh-hannover.de.
(6)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover,
Callinstrasse 36, 30167 Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
glasmacher@imp.uni-hannover.de.

Multipotent stromal cells derived from the common marmoset monkey Callithrix
jacchus (cjMSCs) possess high phylogenetic similarity to humans, with a great
potential for preclinical studies in the field of regenerative medicine. Safe and
effective long-term storage of cells is of great significance to clinical and
research applications. Encapsulation of such cell types within alginate beads
that can mimic an extra-cellular matrix and provide a supportive environment for 
cells during cryopreservation, has several advantages over freezing of cells in
suspension. In this study we have analysed the effect of dimethyl sulfoxide
(Me2SO, 2.5-10%, v/v) and pre-freeze loading time of alginate encapsulated cjMSCs
in Me2SO (0-45 min) on the viability and metabolic activity of the cells after
freezing using a slow cooling rate (-1°C/min). It was found that these parameters
affect the stability and homogeneity of alginate beads after thawing. Moreover,
the cjMSCs can be frozen in alginate beads with lower Me2SO concentration of 7.5%
after 30 min of loading, while retaining high cryopreservation outcome. We
demonstrated the maximum viability, membrane integrity and metabolic activity of 
the cells under optimized, less cytotoxic conditions. The results of this study
are another step forward towards the application of cryopreservation for the
long-term storage and subsequent applications of transplants in cell-based
therapies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cryobiol.2015.05.001 
PMID: 25980899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

