

1233. PLoS One. 2015 May 6;10(5):e0126132. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126132.
eCollection 2015.

Pandemic Swine-Origin H1N1 Influenza Virus Replicates to Higher Levels and
Induces More Fever and Acute Inflammatory Cytokines in Cynomolgus versus Rhesus
Monkeys and Can Replicate in Common Marmosets.

Mooij P(1), Koopman G(1), Mortier D(1), van Heteren M(1), Oostermeijer H(1),
Fagrouch Z(1), de Laat R(1), Kobinger G(2), Li Y(2), Remarque EJ(3), Kondova
I(4), Verschoor EJ(1), Bogers WM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.
(2)National Microbiology Laboratory, Public Health Agency of Canada, Winnipeg,
Manitoba, Canada.
(3)Department of Parasitology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The close immunological and physiological resemblance with humans makes non-human
primates a valuable model for studying influenza virus pathogenesis and immunity 
and vaccine efficacy against infection. Although both cynomolgus and rhesus
macaques are frequently used in influenza virus research, a direct comparison of 
susceptibility to infection and disease has not yet been performed. In the
current study a head-to-head comparison was made between these species, by using 
a recently described swine-origin pandemic H1N1 strain, A/Mexico/InDRE4487/2009. 
In comparison to rhesus macaques, cynomolgus macaques developed significantly
higher levels of virus replication in the upper airways and in the lungs,
involving both peak level and duration of virus production, as well as higher
increases in body temperature. In contrast, clinical symptoms, including
respiratory distress, were more easily observed in rhesus macaques. Expression of
sialyl-Î±-2,6-Gal saccharides, the main receptor for human influenza A viruses,
was 50 to 73 times more abundant in trachea and bronchus of cynomolgus macaques
relative to rhesus macaques. The study also shows that common marmosets, a New
World non-human primate species, are susceptible to infection with pandemic H1N1.
The study results favor the cynomolgus macaque as model for pandemic H1N1
influenza virus research because of the more uniform and high levels of virus
replication, as well as temperature increases, which may be due to a more
abundant expression of the main human influenza virus receptor in the trachea and
bronchi.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0126132 
PMCID: PMC4422689
PMID: 25946071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

