

1238. Horm Behav. 2015 May;71:83-90. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.04.015. Epub 2015 Apr
28.

Do marmosets care to share? Oxytocin treatment reduces prosocial behavior toward 
strangers.

Mustoe AC(1), Cavanaugh J(2), Harnisch AM(3), Thompson BE(3), French JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
Electronic address: amustoe@unomaha.edu.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
(4)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA;
Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.

Cooperatively-breeding and socially-monogamous primates, like marmosets and
humans, exhibit high levels of social tolerance and prosociality toward others.
Oxytocin (OXT) generally facilitates prosocial behavior, but there is growing
recognition that OXT modulation of prosocial behavior is shaped by the context of
social interactions and by other motivational states such as arousal or anxiety. 
To determine whether prosociality varies based on social context, we evaluated
whether marmoset donors (Callithrix penicillata) preferentially rewarded
pairmates versus opposite-sex strangers in a prosocial food-sharing task. To
examine potential links among OXT, stress systems, and prosociality, we evaluated
whether pretrial cortisol levels in marmosets altered the impact of OXT on
prosocial responses. Marmosets exhibited spontaneous prosociality toward others, 
but they did so preferentially toward strangers compared to their pairmates. When
donor marmosets were treated with marmoset-specific Pro(8)-OXT, they exhibited
reduced prosociality toward strangers compared to marmosets treated with saline
or consensus-mammalian Leu(8)-OXT. When pretrial cortisol levels were lower,
marmosets exhibited higher prosociality toward strangers. These findings
demonstrate that while marmosets show spontaneous prosocial responses toward
others, they do so preferentially toward opposite-sex strangers. Cooperative
breeding may be associated with the expression of prosociality, but the existence
of a pair-bond between marmoset partners appears to be neither necessary nor
sufficient for the expression of spontaneous prosocial responses. Furthermore,
high prosociality toward strangers is significantly reduced in marmosets treated 
with Pro(8)-OXT, suggesting that OXT does not universally enhance prosociality,
but, rather OXT modulation of prosocial behavior varies depending on social
context.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2015.04.015 
PMCID: PMC4439329
PMID: 25934057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

