

1241. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2015 Jan-Mar;24(1):108-13. doi:
10.1590/S1984-29612015014.

Evaluation of Kato-Katz and spontaneous sedimentation methods for the diagnosis
of platynosomiasis in Neotropical primates.

Mati VL(1), Pinto HA(1), de Melo AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brasil.

Platynosomiasis is a parasitic infection reported in non-human primates,
including marmosets, and is frequently difficult to diagnose. In this study, the 
Kato-Katz method and the spontaneous sedimentation method were evaluated for
their usefulness in identifying Platynosomum eggs in fecal samples from
Callithrix penicillata that naturally harbor Platynosomum illiciens. Spontaneous 
sedimentation allowed the diagnosis of 41.7% (5/12) and 66.7% (8/12) of infected 
marmosets from one and three slides, respectively, prepared from the same fecal
sample. The examination of a single Kato-Katz thick smear detected 83.3% (10/12) 
of infection cases. The analysis of feces on three different days increased the
rate of diagnosis, since 75% (9/12) and 100% (12/12) of the primates with
platynosomiasis were identified using serial spontaneous sedimentation (3
slides/day) and the Kato-Katz method, respectively. The mean number of
Platynosomum eggs per gram of feces determined via the Kato-Katz method was 71.7 
(8-240). The spontaneous sedimentation method when performed in series is
acceptable for the diagnosis of platynosomiasis. However, the Kato-Katz method,
which was here used for the first time to detect this infection, has a higher
diagnostic sensitivity and the advantage that a quantitative analysis of the eggs
released in the host feces is possible.

DOI: 10.1590/S1984-29612015014 
PMID: 25909264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

