

1244. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2015 Jul;57:93-101. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.03.019. Epub 2015 Apr 6.

Reunion behavior after social separation is associated with enhanced HPA recovery
in young marmoset monkeys.

Taylor JH(1), Mustoe AC(2), Hochfelder B(2), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States. Electronic address:
jhtaylor@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States.
(3)Department of Psychology - University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States;
Callitrichid Research Center, United States; Department of Biology - University
of Nebraska at Omaha, United States.

The relationships that offspring develop with caregivers can exert a powerful
influence on behavior and physiology, including the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In many mammalian species,
offspring-caregiver relationships are largely limited to interactions with
mother. Marmoset monkeys receive care in early life from multiple classes of
caregivers in addition to the mother, including fathers and siblings. We
evaluated whether affiliative social interactions with family members in
marmosets were associated with differences in cortisol reactivity to a short-term
social separation stressor, and whether these variations in affiliative
interactions upon reunion predicted how well marmosets subsequently regulated HPA
axis function after cessation of the stressor. Marmosets were separated from the 
family for 8h at three developmental time points (6-, 12-, and 18-months of age),
and interactions of the separated marmoset with the family group were recorded
during reunion. Urinary cortisol was measured prior to social separation, every
2h during the separation, and on the morning after separation. Heightened
cortisol reactivity during social separation did not predict affiliative social
behavior upon reunion but higher rates of grooming and play behavior predicted
enhanced HPA regulation. Marmosets with higher rates of grooming and play with
family members upon reunion had post-stress cortisol levels closer to
preseparation baseline than marmosets with lower rates of affiliative reunion
behavior. Combined with previous research showing the early programming effects
of social interactions with caregivers, as well as the buffering effect of a
close social partner during stress, the current study highlights the high degree 
of behavioral and HPA adaptability to social stressors across development in
marmoset monkeys.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.03.019 
PMCID: PMC4437813
PMID: 25900596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

