

1249. Drug Metab Dispos. 2015 Jul;43(7):969-76. doi: 10.1124/dmd.115.063909. Epub 2015 
Apr 9.

Substrate Selectivities and Catalytic Activities of Marmoset Liver Cytochrome
P450 2A6 Differed from Those of Human P450 2A6.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and Bioanalysis 
Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Kainan, Wakayama, Japan (Y.U.);
Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for Experimental
Animals, Kawasaki, Japan (T.I., E.S.); and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio
University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and Bioanalysis 
Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Kainan, Wakayama, Japan (Y.U.);
Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for Experimental
Animals, Kawasaki, Japan (T.I., E.S.); and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio
University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate species, is
potentially a useful animal model for preclinical studies in drug development.
However, cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes have not been fully identified and
characterized in marmosets. In this study, we identified P450 2A6 cDNA with the
sequence highly identical (91-94%) to human P450 2A6, 2A7, and 2A13 cDNA and
cynomolgus monkey P450 2A23, 2A24, and 2A26 cDNA. Among the tissue types
examined, marmoset P450 2A6 mRNA was most abundantly expressed in livers where
P450 2A6 protein was also detected by immunoblotting. Phylogenetic analysis
showed that marmoset P450 2A6 was more closely clustered with human and
cynomolgus monkey P450 2As than P450 2As of dog, rat, and mouse (the species also
used in drug metabolism). Marmoset P450 2A6 heterologously expressed in
Escherichia coli membranes efficiently catalyzed 7-ethoxycoumarin O-deethylation,
similar to human P450 2A6 and 2A13 and cynomolgus monkey P450 2A23, 2A24, and
2A26, but much less effectively coumarin 7-hydroxylation, showing some difference
as well. Interestingly, marmoset P450 2A6 and cynomolgus monkey P450 2A23
catalyzed phenacetin O-deethylation, which is catalyzed by human P450 1A2 and
2A13, but not by P450 2A6. Marmoset P450 2A6 also exhibited catalytic activity
toward testosterone by the multiple sites, but not rat P450 2A-specific
testosterone 7α-hydroxylation activity. These results indicated that marmoset
P450 2A6 had functional characteristics different from those of human and
cynomolgus monkey P450 2As in terms of partially different substrate
specificities and catalytic activities, indicating its importance of further
studies for P450 2A-dependent drug metabolism in marmosets.

Copyright © 2015 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.115.063909 
PMID: 25858611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

