

1250. Am J Primatol. 2015 Jul;77(7):801-10. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22403. Epub 2015 Apr 2.

Measurement of 25-hydroxyvitamin D(2&3) and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(2&3) by
tandem mass spectrometry: A primate multispecies comparison.

Ziegler TE(1)(2), Kapoor A(1)(2), Hedman CJ(1)(2)(3), Binkley N(4), Kemnitz
JW(1)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(2)Institute of Clinical and Translational Research, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)Wisconsin State Laboratory of Hygiene, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(5)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, University of Wisconsin, Madison,
Wisconsin.

Vitamin D metabolites are widely studied for their roles in bone health, immune
functions, and other potential physiologic roles in humans. However, the optimal 
blood levels of vitamin D metabolites are still unclear. Various methods for
measuring vitamin D metabolites have been used and recently liquid chromatography
tandem mass spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS) has been adopted as the gold standard for
vitamin D metabolite measurement. Here, we report the use of LC-MS/MS to measure 
25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D(2&3)), and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D
(1,25(OH)2D(2&3)), in three laboratory nonhuman primate species: common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus), rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), and cynomolgus macaque
(Macaca fascicularis), and compare them to humans using the same technique. The
nonhuman primates showed blood levels for 25(OH)D3 and 1,25(OH)2D3 significantly 
higher than human values with marmosets having the highest levels. Marmoset
samples showed significantly more variability among individuals than those from
macaques for both metabolites, but all three nonhuman primate species exhibited
large variation within species for both 25(OH)D(2&3) and 1,25(OH)2D(2&3).
Marmoset females had significantly lower values than the males for 25(OH)D3,
while rhesus males showed a significant decrease in 25(OH)D3 with age. The most
striking finding is the variation within species for vitamin D levels even in
laboratory primates that have a controlled diet, UV exposure, and in some cases, 
genetic constraints. Similar variation in 25(OH)D responses to a fixed dose of
oral vitamin D supplementation has been reported in humans. We suggest that these
species can provide primate models for examining the factors influencing
variation in the levels of vitamin D necessary for human and nonhuman primate
health.

Â© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22403 
PMCID: PMC4481142
PMID: 25845705  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

