

1251. Anim Reprod Sci. 2015 Jun;157:44-55. doi: 10.1016/j.anireprosci.2015.03.014. Epub
2015 Mar 24.

Body weight-associated differences in ovarian morphology in captive common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Scheerer-Bernhard JU(1), Tkachenko OY(2), Heistermann M(3), Gründker C(4), Nayudu
PL(5).

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany; Department of
Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Georg-August-University, Robert-Koch-Street 40, 37075
Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address: johbernhard@gmail.com.
(2)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
tkachenkoe@list.ru.
(3)Endocrinology Laboratory, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
mheistermann@dpz.eu.
(4)Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Georg-August-University,
Robert-Koch-Street 40, 37075 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
grundker@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(5)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen, Germany. Electronic address:
pnayudu@gmail.com.

In captivity, Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is on average heavier than
their wild-living counterparts, and has a tendency to produce triplet litters
rather than the normal twins. To provide initial basic information about possible
weight-related differences among the ovaries, a morphometric study of follicular 
phase ovaries from 48 young adult marmosets has been carried out. Nearly 90% of
these ovaries were found to contain some degree of luteal tissue composed of
large and/or small cells. The luteal structures, follicles of all stages, and
stroma were subjected to morphometric analysis, and these results were compared
with body weight, circulating triglyceride, androstenedione, and total estrogens.
Where only large luteal cells were present, the median body weight was the
highest (only this group included animals over 500 g) compared with mixed, or
only small luteal cells, or absence of luteal cells. Furthermore, in this group
plasma triglycerides were significantly higher compared to other groups,
suggesting possible role of triglycerides in promoting luteinisation. Plasma
androstenedione was also a critical discriminating factor, and was elevated where
large luteal cells were present even as a mixture with small cells suggesting the
large luteal cells to be the likely major ovarian source of this hormone and its 
metabolites. Additionally, the ovaries with large luteal cells compared to those 
containing only small or no luteal cells, had lower primordial follicle reserve
associated with high levels of atresia and luteinisation among growing
non-ovulatory follicles, indicating an accelerated activation, but at the same
time a suboptimal environment for follicular growth.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anireprosci.2015.03.014 
PMID: 25842250  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

