

1256. Behav Brain Res. 2015;287:100-8. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.037. Epub 2015 Mar
24.

Cognitive bias, hand preference and welfare of common marmosets.

Gordon DJ(1), Rogers LJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Science and
Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia.
(2)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Science and
Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia. Electronic 
address: lrogers@une.edu.au.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have hand preferences for grasping pieces
of food and holding them while eating and these are stable throughout adult life.
We report here that left-handed marmosets have negative cognitive bias compared
to right-handed marmosets. Twelve marmosets were trained to expect a food reward 
from a bowl with a black lid and not from one with a white lid, or vice versa. In
probe tests with ambiguous, grey-lidded bowls a left-handed group (N=7) were less
likely to remove the lid to inspect the bowl than a right-handed group (N=5).
This difference between left- and right-handed marmosets was not dependent on
rate of learning, sex or age. In fact, hand-preference was not associated with
rate of learning the task. Furthermore, retrospective examination of colony
records of 39 marmosets revealed that more aggression was directed towards left- 
than right-handed marmosets. Hence, hand preference, which can be measured
easily, could serve as an indicator of cognitive bias and may signal a need for
particular care in laboratory environments. We explain the results by arguing
that hand preference reflects more frequent (or dominant) use of the opposite
hemisphere and this predisposes individuals to behave differently.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.037 
PMID: 25813746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

