

1257. Cell Tissue Res. 2015 Sep;361(3):885-98. doi: 10.1007/s00441-015-2164-1. Epub
2015 Mar 26.

Developmental expression patterns of chemokines CXCL11, CXCL12 and their receptor
CXCR7 in testes of common marmoset and human.

Westernströer B(1), Langenstroth D, Kliesch S, Troppmann B, Redmann K, Macdonald 
J, Mitchell R, Wistuba J, Schlatt S, Neuhaus N.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, CeRA, Institute of Reproductive
and Regenerative Biology, Albert-Schweizer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149,
Münster, Germany.

The chemokine receptor CXCR7 interacts with the chemokines CXCL11 and CXCL12.
During development, this ligand receptor system (C-X-C) provokes
cell-type-specific responses in terms of migration, adhesion or ligand
sequestration. It is active in zebrafish and rodents but no data are available
for its presence or function in primate testes. Real-time quantitative polymerase
chain reaction was performed in monkeys to detect CXCL11, CXCL12 and CXCR7. At
the protein level, CXCL12 and CXCR7 were localized in the testes of the marmoset 
(Callitrix jacchus) whereas CXCR7 patterns were determined for various stages in 
human testes. Morphometry and flow cytometry were applied to quantify
CXCR7-positive cells in monkeys. Transcript levels and protein expression of
CXCR7 were detectable throughout testicular development. In both species, CXCR7
protein expression was restricted to premeiotic germ cells. In immature marmoset 
testes, 69.9% ± 9% of the total germ cell population were labelled for CXCR7,
whereas in the adult, 4.7% ± 2.7% were positive for CXCR7. CXCL12 mRNA was
detectable in all developmental stages in marmosets. The CXCL12 protein was
exclusively localized to Sertoli cells. This pattern of CXCL12/CXCR7 indicates
their involvement in regulatory processes that possibly orchestrate the
interaction between undifferentiated germ cells and Sertoli cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-015-2164-1 
PMID: 25810367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

