

1261. Behav Brain Res. 2015;287:120-6. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.025. Epub 2015 Mar
21.

The serotonin 5-HT₁A receptor agonist tandospirone improves executive function in
common marmosets.

Baba S(1), Murai T(2), Nakako T(2), Enomoto T(1), Ono M(3), Shimizu I(1), Ikeda
K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 
Osaka, Japan.
(2)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma,
Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
(3)Innovative Drug Discovery Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 
Osaka, Japan.
(4)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma,
Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan. Electronic address: kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Previous pilot clinical studies have shown that the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor
agonist tandospirone has beneficial effect on cognitive deficits associated with 
schizophrenia. In the present study, we evaluated the cognitive efficacy of
tandospirone, given alone or in combination with the antipsychotic blonanserin,
risperidone or haloperidol, on executive function in marmosets using the object
retrieval with detour (ORD) task. Treatment with tandospirone alone at 20 and 40 
mg/kg increased the number of correct responses in the difficult trial, while
risperidone (0.3mg/kg) and haloperidol (0.3mg/kg) decreased the number of correct
responses in this trial. On the other hand, blonanserin (0.1-0.3mg/kg), an
atypical antipsychotic highly selective for dopamine D2/D3 and serotonin 5-HT2A
receptors, did not affect the number of correct responses in both the easy and
difficult trials. Co-treatment with tandospirone (20mg/kg) and risperidone
(0.1-0.3mg/kg) or haloperidol (0.1-0.3mg/kg) did not improve animals' performance
in the difficult trial. However, co-treatment with tandospirone and blonanserin
(0.1-0.3mg/kg) increased the number of correct responses in the difficult trial. 
In addition, treatment with the dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF-81297 at 1mg/kg 
increased marmosets correct responses in the difficult trial. These results
suggest that tandospirone is a promising candidate for the treatment of cognitive
deficits associated with schizophrenia and that adjunctive treatment with
tandospirone and blonanserin is more appropriate for cognitive deficits than
combination therapy with tandospirone and risperidone or haloperidol. The results
of this study also indicate that the putative mechanism of action of tandospirone
might be related to enhancement of dopamine neurotransmission via activation of
the 5-HT1A receptor.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2015.03.025 
PMID: 25804359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

