

1262. Xenobiotica. 2015;45(9):766-72. doi: 10.3109/00498254.2015.1019595. Epub 2015 Jul
27.

Marmoset cytochrome P450 2D8 in livers and small intestines metabolizes typical
human P450 2D6 substrates, metoprolol, bufuralol and dextromethorphan.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y, Hagihira Y, Murayama N, Shimizu M, Inoue T, Sasaki E,
Yamazaki H.

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics , Showa Pharmaceutical
University , Machida , Tokyo , Japan .

1. Although the New World non-human primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), is a potentially useful animal model, comprehensive understanding of
drug metabolizing enzymes is insufficient. 2. A cDNA encoding a novel cytochrome 
P450 (P450) 2D8 was identified in marmosets. The amino acid sequence deduced from
P450 2D8 cDNA showed a high sequence identity (83-86%) with other primate P450
2Ds. Phylogenetic analysis showed that marmoset P450 2D8 was closely clustered
with human P450 2D6, unlike P450 2Ds of miniature pig, dog, rabbit, guinea pig,
mouse or rat. 3. Marmoset P450 2D8 mRNA was predominantly expressed in the liver 
and small intestine among the tissues types analyzed, whereas marmoset P450 2D6
mRNA was expressed predominantly in the liver where P450 2D protein was detected 
by immunoblotting. 4. By metabolic assays using marmoset P450 2D8 protein
heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli, although P450 2D8 exhibits lower
catalytic efficiency compared to marmoset and human P450 2D6 enzymes, P450 2D8
mediated O-demethylations of metoprolol and dextromethorphan and bufuralol
1'-hydroxylation. 5. These results suggest that marmoset P450 2D8 (also expressed
in the extrahepatic tissues) has potential roles in drug metabolism in a similar 
manner to those of human and marmoset P450 2D6.

DOI: 10.3109/00498254.2015.1019595 
PMID: 25801057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

