

1266. J Med Virol. 2015 Jul;87(7):1077-89. doi: 10.1002/jmv.24167. Epub 2015 Mar 16.

Identification of cytotoxic T lymphocyte epitopes in dengue virus serotype 1.

Duan Z(1), Guo J, Huang X, Liu H, Chen X, Jiang M, Wen J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Basic Medical Sciences,
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China; Department of Clinical Laboratory,
The Second Affiliated Hospital & Yuying Children's Hospital of Wenzhou Medical
University, Wenzhou, China.

Dengue virus (DENV) has a serious and growing impact on global health and the
exact role of DENV-specific CD8(+) T-cells in DENV infection is still uncertain. 
In the present study, SYFPEITHI algorithm was used to screen the amino acid
sequence of Dengue virus serotype 1 (DENV-1) for potential epitopes, and seven
putative HLA-A*1101-restricted and five putative HLA-A*2402-restricted epitopes
conserved in hundreds of DENV-1 strains were synthesized. The binding affinity of
these epitope candidates to corresponding HLA molecules was evaluated using
competitive peptide-binding assay. The immunogenicity and specificity of peptides
were further tested in HLA-A*1101 transgenic mice, HLA-A*2402 transgenic mice and
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients infected with DENV-1.
Percentage inhibition (PI) values calculated in competitive peptide-binding assay
showed that six peptides (E39-47 PTLDIELLK, NS5(505-513) GVEGEGLHK, NS2b(15-23)
SILLSSLLK, NS5(561-569) ALLATSIFK, NS3(99-107) AVEPGKNPK, and NS4b(159-167)
VVYDAKFEK) could bind to HLA-A*1101 molecule with high affinity and five peptides
(NS3472-480 QYIYMGQPL, NS4a40-48 AYRHAMEEL, NS5(880-888) DYMTSMKRF, NS3(548-556) 
SYKVASEGF, and NS3(22-30) IYRILQRGL) have a high affinity for HLA-A*2402
molecule. Enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) results indicated that these
high-affinity peptides were recognized by splenocytes of DENV-1-infected
transgenic mice and high-affinity peptide-immunized transgenic mice displayed
high levels of peptide-specific IFN-γ-secreting cells. In addition, both
peptide-pulsed splenocytes and DENV-1-infected splenic monocytes were efficiently
killed by these peptide-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Finally, except
NS2b(15-23), 10 high-affinity peptides were recognized by PBMCs of patients
infected with DENV-1. These identified epitopes would contribute to the
understanding of the function of DENV-specific CD8(+) T-cells.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.24167 
PMID: 25777343  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

