

1267. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Mar 31;112(13):4176-81. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1422440112. Epub 2015 Mar 16.

Regional inactivations of primate ventral prefrontal cortex reveal two distinct
mechanisms underlying negative bias in decision making.

Clarke HF(1), Horst NK(2), Roberts AC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, CB2 3DY, United Kingdom; and Behavioural
and Clinical Neurosciences Institute and hfc23@cam.ac.uk.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neurosciences Institute and Department of Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, CB2 3DY, United Kingdom; and Behavioural
and Clinical Neurosciences Institute and.

Dysregulation of the orbitofrontal and ventrolateral prefrontal cortices is
implicated in anxiety and mood disorders, but the specific contributions of each 
region are unknown, including how they gate the impact of threat on decision
making. To address this, the effects of GABAergic inactivation of these regions
were studied in marmoset monkeys performing an instrumental approach-avoidance
decision-making task that is sensitive to changes in anxiety. Inactivation of
either region induced a negative bias away from punishment that could be
ameliorated with anxiolytic treatment. However, whereas the effects of
ventrolateral prefrontal cortex inactivation on punishment avoidance were seen
immediately, those of orbitofrontal cortex inactivation were delayed and their
expression was dependent upon an amygdala-anterior hippocampal circuit. We
propose that these negative biases result from deficits in attentional control
and punishment prediction, respectively, and that they provide the basis for
understanding how distinct regional prefrontal dysregulation contributes to the
heterogeneity of anxiety disorders with implications for cognitive-behavioral
treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1422440112 
PMCID: PMC4386364
PMID: 25775597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

