

1269. Curr Neurovasc Res. 2015;12(2):128-34.

An experimental model for exudative age-related macular degeneration with
choroidal neovascularization using the common marmoset.

Shimazawa M, Masuda T, Nakamura S, Miwa M, Nakamura K, Hara H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, 1- 25-4 Daigaku-nishi, Gifu 501-1196, Japan.
hidehara@gifu-pu.ac.jp.

This study aimed to establish an experimental exudative age-related macular
degeneration (AMD) model in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), which is a 
small New World monkey. Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) was induced by laser
irradiation on the left eye of each animal under anesthesia. Eight laser spots
were applied around the macular area using the image-guided laser system (532 nm)
attached with Micron III at 650 mW-2,000 mW power. Laser pulse duration and spot 
size were fixed at 100 ms and 50 µm, respectively. At 14 days after laser
irradiation, fluorescein angiograms were observed. At 21 days after laser
irradiation, the fluorescein angiograms were transcardially perfused to the
bilateral common carotid arteries with 4% paraformaldehyde for the transverse
section or with fluorescein-conjugated dextran (MW = 2,000 kDa) for the retinal
pigment epithelia (RPE)-choroidal flatmount. At 14 days after laser irradiation, 
late hyperfluorescence and leakage within or beyond the lesion borders were
observed in a laser power-dependent manner. In the RPE-choroidal flatmount, the
mean size of the CNV lesions at 1,500 mW was 1.34 ± 0.49 × 10(5) µm(2) (Mean ±
S.D., n = 29), and the coefficient of variation for each CNV area was 36.5% (n = 
29). In conclusion, we succeeded in producing an experimental exudative type of
AMD model in the common marmoset. This model may be useful in elucidating the
pathophysiological mechanism and screening of new candidates for exudative AMD.

DOI: 10.2174/1567202612666150311105814 
PMID: 25760220  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

