

1270. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Sep 1;523(13):1948-66. doi: 10.1002/cne.23772. Epub 2015 Jul 
14.

Analysis of the lateral geniculate nucleus in dichromatic and trichromatic
marmosets.

FitzGibbon T(1), Eriköz B(2), Grünert U(1)(3)(4), Martin PR(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2006,
Australia.
(2)Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, University of Melbourne, Vic.,
3053, Australia.
(3)Save Sight Institute, University of Sydney, NSW, 2000, Australia.
(4)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, University of Sydney, 2000, Australia.

Marmosets are diurnal New World monkeys that show sex-linked cone photopigment
polymorphism, whereby all males and some females are dichromats ("red-green
colorblind"), but most females show trichromatic color vision. Here we asked
whether trichromats express chromatic-specific circuitry in the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN). The volume of parvocellular (P), magnocellular (M), and
koniocellular (K) layers was calculated in Nissl-stained sections from the LGN of
adult marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; 10 trichromatic females; 2 dichromatic
females; and 13 dichromatic males). Retinal ganglion cell axon terminals within
the P and K layers were reconstructed and measured following anterograde tracer
(dextran) injections. We show that there is little difference in LGN layer volume
with respect to age, weight, or sex of the animals, or between dichromatic and
trichromatic phenotypes. The morphology of retinal ganglion cell terminals was
largely indistinguishable on comparing dichromats and trichromats, and likewise
on comparing terminals representing peripheral or foveal retina. We conclude that
the LGN circuits we studied are largely independent of red-green color vision
phenotype and visual field location.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23772 
PMID: 25753496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

