

1272. Res Vet Sci. 2015 Apr;99:17-22. doi: 10.1016/j.rvsc.2015.02.005. Epub 2015 Feb
11.

Purification and partial characterization of α1-proteinase inhibitor in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Parambeth JC(1), Suchodolski JS(2), Steiner JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College
Station, Texas 77843-4474. Electronic address: JCyrus@cvm.tamu.edu.
(2)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, College
Station, Texas 77843-4474.

Fecal alpha1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-PI) concentration has been to diagnose
enteric protein loss in dogs and cats. Chronic lymphocytic enteritis is commonly 
seen in the marmoset (Callithrix jaccus) and is characterized by hypoalbuminemia.
As a prelude to immunoassay development for detecting enteric protein loss,
marmoset serum α1-PI was purified using immunoaffinity chromatography and ceramic
hydroxyapatite chromatography. Partial characterization was performed by reducing
gel electrophoresis and enzyme inhibitory assays. Protein identity was confirmed 
with peptide mass fingerprinting and N-terminal amino acid sequencing. Molecular 
mass, relative molecular mass, and isoelectric point for marmoset α1-PI were
54 kDa, 51,677, and 4.8-5.4, respectively. Trypsin, chymotrypsin, and elastase
inhibitory activity were observed. N-terminal amino acid sequence for marmoset
α1-PI was EDPQGDAAQKMDTSHH. In conclusion, marmoset α1-PI was successfully
purified from serum with an overall yield of 12% using a rapid and efficient
method. Purified marmoset α1-PI has characteristics similar to those of α1-PI
reported for other species.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rvsc.2015.02.005 
PMCID: PMC4378525
PMID: 25745866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

