

1276. Theriogenology. 2015 May;83(8):1304-9.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.01.017. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Development of a modified artificial insemination technique combining penile
vibration stimulation and the swim-up method in the common marmoset.

Takabayashi S(1), Suzuki Y(2), Katoh H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan. Electronic address: shuji@hama-med.ac.jp.
(2)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan.
(3)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan; Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Genetics, Central
Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is used as a New World monkey species in
biomedical studies because of its small body size and good reproduction in
captivity. A modified artificial insemination technique was developed in this
species to encourage breeding of lines carrying interesting genes and traits.
Fresh semen was collected by penile vibratory stimulation. Medium containing
highly motile sperm was inseminated into the uterus using a catheter. Seven
females were inseminated using freshly prepared sperm from different males every 
day for 3 days including the expected ovulation day. As a result, four females
conceived, and three females delivered six offspring in total (two singletons and
one quadruplet). The paternity of the newborns was determined using
microsatellite markers to accurately pinpoint the timing of insemination and
ovulation. It is expected that our artificial insemination protocol can be
effectively used to establish marmoset lines and genetically manage marmoset
colonies.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.01.017 
PMID: 25732321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

