

1277. Diabetes. 2015 Jul;64(7):2603-8. doi: 10.2337/db14-0866. Epub 2015 Mar 2.

Hyperhexosemia-Induced Retinal Vascular Pathology in a Novel Primate Model of
Diabetic Retinopathy.

Chronopoulos A(1), Roy S(1), Beglova E(1), Mansfield K(2), Wachtman L(2), Roy
S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Medicine and Ophthalmology, Boston University School of
Medicine, Boston, MA.
(2)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, MA.
(3)Departments of Medicine and Ophthalmology, Boston University School of
Medicine, Boston, MA sayon@bu.edu.

The paucity of animal models exhibiting full pathology of diabetic retinopathy
(DR) has impeded understanding of the pathogenesis of DR and the development of
therapeutic interventions. Here, we investigated whether hyperhexosemic marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) develop characteristic retinal vascular lesions including
macular edema (ME), a leading cause of vision loss in DR. Marmosets maintained on
30% galactose (gal)-rich diet for 2 years were monitored for retinal vascular
permeability, development of ME, and morphological characteristics including
acellular capillaries (AC) and pericyte loss (PL), vessel tortuosity, and
capillary basement membrane (BM) thickness. Excess vascular permeability,
increased number of AC and PL, vascular BM thickening, and increased vessel
tortuosity were observed in the retinas of gal-fed marmosets. Optical coherence
tomography (OCT) images revealed significant thickening of the retinal foveal and
the juxtafoveal area, and histological analysis showed incipient microaneurysms
in retinas of gal-fed marmosets. Findings from this study indicate that
hyperhexosemia can trigger retinal vascular changes similar to those seen in
human DR including ME and microaneurysms. The striking similarities between the
marmoset retina and the human retina, and the exceptionally small size of the
monkey, offer significant advantages to this primate model of DR.

Â© 2015 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as long
as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, and the
work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/db14-0866 
PMCID: PMC4477345
PMID: 25732190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

