

1278. Theriogenology. 2015 May;83(8):1254-63. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.01.012. Epub 2015 Jan 16.

Critical estradiol dose optimization for oocyte in vitro maturation in the common
marmoset.

Tkachenko OY(1), Delimitreva S(2), Heistermann M(3), Scheerer-Bernhard JU(4),
Wedi E(5), Nayudu PL(6).

Author information: 
(1)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany; Department of Biology, Free University,
Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: olenatkachenko@googlemail.com.
(2)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany; Department of Biology, Medical University
of Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria.
(3)Endocrinology Laboratory, German Primate Centre, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany; Department of Internal Medicine, Roskilde
Hospital, Roskilde, Denmark.
(5)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany; Department of Hepato-Gastroenterology,
Nouvel Hôpital Civil, Strasbourg University Hospital, Strasbourg, France.
(6)Reproductive Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Göttingen, Germany.

The aim of the present study was to critically evaluate the effect of different
concentrations of estradiol (E2) during IVM of common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) oocytes from antral follicles. The doses tested were 0, 0.1, 1, or 10
μg/mL E2 (referred to as 0 E2, 0.1 E2, 1 E2, and 10 E2 groups). After a
preincubation, the concentration of E2 in IVM drops under oil was approximately
20% of the amount added (0.02; 0.2 and 1.9 μg/mL, respectively) because of
absorption into the oil. Oocyte progression to metaphase II was significantly
higher in the 0.1 E2 group than that in the absence of E2. With progressively
higher doses, the maturation rate tended to decrease suggesting an overdose
effect. Furthermore, the total first cleavage rate was significantly higher in
the 0.1 E2 group than that in the 0 E2 group and decreased progressively with
further increases in E2 concentration, with the 10 E2 group showing the same low 
rate as without E2. The oocytes which failed to cleave, after maturation in 10
E2, showed obvious signs of overdose with the highest rates of degeneration and
abnormal spindle form, and an absence of embryo progression. In contrast to these
obvious negative effects on the oocyte, 10 E2 was the only group in which a
significant increase in radial cumulus expansion was observed. The concentration 
0.1 E2, which is 10 times lower than the most commonly used E2 dose, produced the
best results in all oocyte factors evaluated. These results represent the first
study for a primate species showing a strong positive effect of E2 on oocyte
maturation and embryo development, but only at the optimal concentration, and
emphasize the critical limits of the optimal concentration range.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2015.01.012 
PMID: 25720580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

