

128. Rev Bras Parasitol Vet. 2021 May 28;30(2):e026020. doi:
10.1590/S1984-29612021012. eCollection 2021.

Platynosomum illiciens (Trematoda: Dicrocoeliidae) in a hybrid marmoset
(Callithrix sp.) in the Municipality of Seropédica, RJ, Brazil - Case report.

Assis RCP(1), Campos DR(1), Borges DA(1), Avelar BR(1), Pereira JASM(2), Matias
CAR(2), Lopes CWG(3), McIntosh D(3), Scott FB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Quimioterapia Experimental em Parasitologia Veterinária,
Departamento de Parasitologia Animal, Instituto de Veterinária - IV, Universidade
Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro - UFRRJ, Seropédica, Campus Seropédica, RJ,
Brasil.
(2)Departamento de Epidemiologia e Saúde Pública, Instituto de Veterinária - IV, 
Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro -UFRRJ, Seropédica, Seropédica, RJ, 
Brasil.
(3)Departamento de Parasitologia Animal, Instituto de Veterinária - IV,
Universidade Federal Rural do Rio de Janeiro - UFRRJ, Seropédica, Seropédica, RJ,
Brasil.

Platynosomum illiciens is a liver trematode encountered infecting mainly felids
although it has also been reported in birds and in additional mammalian species, 
including non-human primates. The current study reports a natural P. illiciens
infection primate of the genus Callithrix. The diagnosis was made using a
combination of copro-parasitological techniques, morphological evaluation of
adult specimens recovered from the liver during necropsy, and molecular analyses.
Eggs were brown in color, oval, operculated, and contained a miracidium. Adult
specimens recovered during necropsy were measured and showed dimensions
compatible with P. illiciens. Molecular characterization of the trematode
involved amplification by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), in combination with
nucleotide sequencing, of an approximately 900 base pairs fragment corresponding 
to 18S-ITS1-5.8S ribosomal DNA. Sequenced amplicons showed 100% nucleotide
identity with sequences deposited in the GenBank database as derived from
specimens of P. illiciens recovered from cats in Malaysia and Brazil. It was
concluded that the morphological and molecular analyses presented herein,
confirmed the identification of the trematode recovered as P. illiciens.

DOI: 10.1590/S1984-29612021012 
PMID: 34076054  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

