

1284. Am J Primatol. 2015 Apr;77(4):401-417. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22356. Epub 2015 Feb 12.

Development of a novel postnatal neurobehavioral scale for evaluation of common
marmoset monkeys.

Braun K(#)(1), Schultz-Darken N(#)(1), Schneider M(2)(3), Moore CF(2)(4), Emborg 
ME(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of
Wisconsin, Madison.
(2)Department of Harlow Center for Biological Psychology, University of
Wisconsin, Madison.
(3)Department of Kinesiology, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
(5)Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin, Madison.
(#)Contributed equally

Common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys when compared to rhesus macaques
(Macaca mullatta) present several advantages for disease modeling, especially
transgenic initiatives, as they commonly give birth to twins, which increases
sample size, have accelerated development and a shorter life span that
facilitates the analysis of the onset of age-related diseases. Yet, no tools are 
currently available to assess marmoset neurodevelopment during the initial first 
month of life. Here we report the creation of a novel Primate Postnatal
Neurobehavioral Assessment Scale for marmoset monkeys (PPNAS-M) that was based on
currently available scales for human and rhesus monkeys. Twenty-four healthy
marmoset infants (12 females, 12 males) from 12 families were evaluated. The
infant assessments involved 10-minute testing administered at 15 and 30 days
after birth. The PPNAS-M consists of 41 noninvasive tests grouped into 5 testing 
categories: visual orienting, auditory and spatial orienting, motor responses,
righting and body strength, and temperament tests. Testing at these two ages did 
not affect the overall health of the infants, suggesting that the PPNAS-M is a
non-invasive testing tool. Significant maturation was demonstrated by increased
scores in each of the five testing categories from postnatal day 15 to 30, with
developmental patterns unique to marmosets. Principal component analysis defined 
4 item groups (Orientation, State Control, Motor Maturity and Sensory
Sensitivity) with 5 variables each. Orientation and State Control factors were
highly similar to each other at both ages and correlated highly with previous
item groupings used with rhesus macaques. Our results indicate that the PPNAS-M
is a useful assessment tool for detecting neuromotor, attention, and temperament 
status of infant marmosets and that it is sensitive to developmental effects.
Further studies to validate the PPNAS-M for the assessment of normal development 
versus early effects of developmental perturbations associated to prenatal
exposures and transgenesis are warranted.

Â© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22356 
PMCID: PMC4374045
PMID: 25676438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

