

1287. Anim Cogn. 2015 May;18(3):701-12. doi: 10.1007/s10071-015-0837-5. Epub 2015 Jan
31.

High emotional reactivity toward an experimenter affects participation, but not
performance, in cognitive tests with common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Schubiger MN(1), WÃ¼stholz FL, Wunder A, Burkart JM.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057, Zurich, Switzerland, mnschubiger@gmail.com.

When testing primates with cognitive tasks, it is usually not considered that
subjects differ markedly in terms of emotional reactivity toward the
experimenter, which potentially affects a subject's cognitive performance. We
addressed this issue in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a monkey species
in which males tend to show stronger emotional reactivity in testing situations, 
whereas females have been reported to outperform males in cognitive tasks. In a
two-phase experiment, we first quantified the emotional reactivity of 14 subjects
toward four different experimenters performing a standardized behavioral action
sequence and then assessed whether and how it affected the subjects'
participation and performance in a subsequent object permanence task. A test
session was terminated if a subject refused to make a choice in four consecutive 
trials. Highly emotionally aroused individuals, particularly males, were less
likely to participate in the cognitive task and completed fewer trials. However, 
whenever they did participate and were attentive to the task, their performance
was not affected. Our results suggest that differences in emotional reactivity
toward an experimenter have no major impact on cognitive performance if strict
criteria are applied on when to abandon a test session and if performance is
corrected for attention to the test procedure. Furthermore, they suggest that the
reported sex differences in cognitive performance in marmosets may be owing to
motivational and attentional factors, rather than a difference in cognitive
ability per se.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-015-0837-5 
PMID: 25636914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

