

1289. Dev Biol. 2015 Apr 1;400(1):43-58. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2015.01.014. Epub 2015
Jan 23.

Gene expression ontogeny of spermatogenesis in the marmoset uncovers primate
characteristics during testicular development.

Lin ZY(1), Hirano T(2), Shibata S(1), Seki NM(3), Kitajima R(4), Sedohara A(5),
Siomi MC(3), Sasaki E(6), Siomi H(2), Imamura M(7), Okano H(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, School of Medicine, Keio University, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology, School of Medicine, Keio University, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Department of Biological
Sciences, Graduate School of Science, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.
(4)Molecular Biology Section, Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology,
Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(5)Department of Applied Developmental Biology, Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki 210-0821, Japan.
(6)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Department of Applied
Developmental Biology, Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 3-25-12
Tonomachi, Kawasaki 210-0821, Japan; PRESTO Japan Science and Technology Agency, 
Japan.
(7)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Molecular Biology Section,
Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto
University, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
imamura.masanori.2m@kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(8)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan. Electronic address:
hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

Mammalian spermatogenesis has been investigated extensively in rodents and a
strictly controlled developmental process has been defined at cellular and
molecular levels. In comparison, primate spermatogenesis has been far less well
characterized. However, important differences between primate and rodent
spermatogenesis are emerging so it is not always accurate to extrapolate findings
in rodents to primate systems. Here, we performed an extensive immunofluorescence
study of spermatogenesis in neonatal, juvenile, and adult testes in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) to determine primate-specific patterns of gene
expression that underpin primate germ cell development. Initially we
characterized adult spermatogonia into two main classes; mitotically active
C-KIT(+)Ki67(+) cells and mitotically quiescent SALL4(+)PLZF(+)LIN28(+)DPPA4(+)
cells. We then explored the expression of a set of markers, including
PIWIL1/MARWI, VASA, DAZL, CLGN, RanBPM, SYCP1 and HAPRIN, during germ cell
differentiation from early spermatocytes through round and elongating spermatids,
and a clear program of gene expression changes was determined as development
proceeded. We then examined the juvenile marmoset testis. Markers of gonocytes
demonstrated two populations; one that migrates to the basal membrane where they 
form the SALL4(+) or C-KIT(+) spermatogonia, and another that remains in the
lumen of the seminiferous tubule. This later population, historically identified 
as pre-spermatogonia, expressed meiotic and apoptotic markers and were eliminated
because they appear to have failed to correctly migrate. Our findings provide the
first platform of gene expression dynamics in adult and developing germ cells of 
the common marmoset. Although we have characterized a limited number of genes,
these results will facilitate primate spermatogenesis research and understanding 
of human reproduction.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2015.01.014 
PMID: 25624265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

