

1292. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014 Oct 31;18(2). pii: pyu030. doi:
10.1093/ijnp/pyu030.

Quantification of central substance P receptor occupancy by aprepitant using
small animal positron emission tomography.

Endo T(1), Saijo T(1), Haneda E(1), Maeda J(1), Tokunaga M(1), Zhang MR(1),
Kannami A(1), Asai H(1), Suzuki M(1), Suhara T(1), Higuchi M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Imaging Center, National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, 
Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Haneda, Maeda, Tokunaga, Zhang, Suhara, Higuchi);
Department of Molecular Neuroimaging, Tohoku University Graduate School of
Medicine, Sendai, Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Suhara, and Higuchi); DMPK Research
Laboratory, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Kisarazu, Japan (Drs Endo,
Saijo, and Kannami); Clinical & Research Quality Assurance Department, Mitsubishi
Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Asai); Clinical Pharmacology
Department, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Suzuki).
(2)Molecular Imaging Center, National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, 
Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Haneda, Maeda, Tokunaga, Zhang, Suhara, Higuchi);
Department of Molecular Neuroimaging, Tohoku University Graduate School of
Medicine, Sendai, Japan (Drs Endo, Saijo, Suhara, and Higuchi); DMPK Research
Laboratory, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Kisarazu, Japan (Drs Endo,
Saijo, and Kannami); Clinical & Research Quality Assurance Department, Mitsubishi
Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Asai); Clinical Pharmacology
Department, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Tokyo, Japan (Dr Suzuki).
mhiguchi@nirs.go.jp.

BACKGROUND: Central substance P receptors, termed NK-1 receptors, have been
considered as therapeutic targets in the development of drugs against diverse
conditions, including emesis, overactive bladder, and depression.
METHODS: Here, we applied small animal positron emission tomography (PET) and a
radioligand for NK-1 receptors ([(18)F]FE-SPA-RQ) for measuring occupancies of
these receptors by a selective antagonist (aprepitant) in order to examine the
validity of this in vivo imaging system for preclinical characterization of
candidate agents acting on NK-1 receptors, and as a tool for predicting optimal
doses in humans.
RESULTS: PET in gerbils depicted high uptake in the striatum and dose-dependent
displacement with increasing doses of aprepitant. Occupancies increased as a
function of aprepitant plasma concentrations according to a one-site competition 
model, which agrees with reported occupancy-concentration relationships in
clinical studies after correction for species differences in plasma
protein-unbound aprepitant fractions. These occupancy data were further supported
by ex vivo autoradiography of brain samples from aprepitant-treated gerbils. In a
pilot study of a marmoset, we obtained more accurate determinations of NK-1
receptor occupancy, less affected by spillover of signals from extracranial
tissues than in gerbil experiments.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings support the utility of small animals and quantitative
PET in the development of drugs targeting NK-1 receptors.

Â© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of CINP.

DOI: 10.1093/ijnp/pyu030 
PMCID: PMC4368889
PMID: 25609595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

