

1298. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:158-63. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.007. Epub 2015
Jan 6.

The olfactory bulb and the number of its glomeruli in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Moriya-Ito K(1), Tanaka I(2), Umitsu Y(2), Ichikawa M(3), Tokuno H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
moriya-kk@igakuken.or.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Brain Structure, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Center for Basic Technology Research, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical 
Science, Kamikitazawa, Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan.

The olfactory system has been well studied in mammals such as mice and rats.
However, few studies have focused on characterizing this system in diurnal
primates that rely on their sense of smell to a lesser extent due to their
ecological environment. In the present study, we determined the histological
organization of the olfactory bulb in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
We then constructed 3-dimensional models of the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb, 
and estimated the number of glomeruli. Olfactory glomeruli are the functional
units of olfactory processing, and have been investigated in detail using mice.
There are approximately 1800 glomeruli in a mouse hemibulb, and olfactory sensory
neurons expressing one selected olfactory receptor converge onto one or two
glomeruli. Because mice have about 1000 olfactory receptor genes, it is proposed 
that the number of glomeruli in mammals is nearly double that of olfactory
receptor genes. The common marmoset carries only about 400 intact olfactory
receptor genes. The present study revealed that the number of glomeruli in a
marmoset hemibulb was approximately 1500-1800. This result suggests that the
number of glomeruli is not positively correlated with the number of intact
olfactory receptor genes in mammals.

Copyright Â© 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.12.007 
PMID: 25573718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

