

1302. J Comp Neurol. 2015 Jun 1;523(8):1222-47. doi: 10.1002/cne.23734. Epub 2015 Mar
10.

Cortical and thalamic projections to cytoarchitectural areas 6Va and 8C of the
marmoset monkey: connectionally distinct subdivisions of the lateral premotor
cortex.

Burman KJ(1), Bakola S, Richardson KE, Yu HH, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.

We studied the afferent connections of two cytoarchitectural subdivisions of the 
caudolateral frontal cortex, areas 6Va and 8C, in marmoset monkeys. These areas
received connections from the same set of thalamic nuclei, including main inputs 
from the ventral lateral and ventral anterior complexes, but differed in their
patterns of corticocortical connections. Areas 8C and 6Va had reciprocal
interconnections, and received similar proportions of afferents from premotor
areas 6M and 6DC, and from the prefrontal cortex. However, area 8C received
stronger inputs from frontal areas that have been implicated in oculomotor
functions, whereas area 6Va received stronger projections from the primary motor 
area. Somatosensory projections to area 6Va were generally stronger than those to
area 8C, and originated from several areas; in contrast, only the second
somatosensory area (S2) sent major inputs to area 8C. Finally, although both 6Va 
and 8C received major inputs from the rostral posterior parietal cortex (putative
homologs of areas PE, PF, and PFG), area 8C also received a variety of smaller
connections from posterior midline, caudal posterior parietal, and extrastriate
areas. Statistical analyses revealed that the pattern of connections of area 8C
is more akin to that characterizing a premotor area, rather than a prefrontal
area. We conclude that cytoarchitectural area 6Va in the marmoset is similar to
ventral premotor areas identified in other simian primates, and that area 8C
corresponds to a specialized subdivision of the caudal premotor complex where
visual information for the guidance of movements is likely to be emphasized.

Â© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23734 
PMID: 25556940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

