

1303. Lab Anim. 2015 Jul;49(3):241-50. doi: 10.1177/0023677214565843. Epub 2014 Dec 31.

Non-invasive blood pressure measurement: values, problems and applicability in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Mietsch M(1), Einspanier A(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Leipzig, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of
Physiological Chemistry, Leipzig, Germany.
(2)University of Leipzig, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of
Physiological Chemistry, Leipzig, Germany einspanier@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus, C. j.) is an established primate model
in biomedical research and for human-related diseases. Monitoring of
cardiovascular parameters including blood pressure (BP) is important for the
health surveillance of these experimental animals and the quantification of
diseases or pharmaceutical substances influencing BP. Measurement guidelines for 
C. j. do not exist yet; therefore, the present study was carried out to establish
a practicable protocol based on recommendations of the American College of
Veterinary Internal Medicine (ACVIM). Furthermore, BP data of 49 marmosets
(13.8-202.4 months of age) were obtained via high-definition oscillometry to
further knowledge of physiological parameters and gender-related differences in
this primate. The thighs proved to be the most suitable measurement localization,
since systolic values were less variable (left 4.03 ± 2.90%, right 5.96 ± 2.77%) 
compared with the tail (12.7 ± 6.96%). BP values were similar in the morning and 
in the afternoon (P > 0.05). Data were highly reproducible within and between
several sessions on three consecutive days (P > 0.05) as well as over the course 
of 20 months (P > 0.05). Furthermore, the measurement time for females was
significantly shorter than for males (5:14 ± 1:59 min versus 6:50 ± 1:58 min, P =
0.007). Measurement recommendations for the common marmoset were successfully
established. Standardized values enabled a reliable comparison of BP parameters, 
e.g. for cardiovascular, toxicological or metabolic research.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0023677214565843 
PMID: 25552521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

