

1311. Amino Acids. 2015 Mar;47(3):589-601. doi: 10.1007/s00726-014-1893-x. Epub 2014
Dec 21.

Metabolome-wide association study of phenylalanine in plasma of common marmosets.

Go YM(1), Walker DI, Soltow QA, Uppal K, Wachtman LM, Strobel FH, Pennell K,
Promislow DE, Jones DP.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical
Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, Emory University, 205 Whitehead Research
Center, Atlanta, GA, 30322, USA.

Little systematic knowledge exists concerning the impacts of cumulative lifelong 
exposure, termed the exposome, on requirements for nutrients. Phenylalanine (Phe)
is an essential dietary amino acid with an aromatic ring structure similar to
endogenous metabolites, dietary compounds and environmental agents. Excess plasma
Phe in genetic disease or nutritional deficiency of Phe has adverse health
consequences. In principle, structurally similar chemicals interfering with Phe
utilization could alter Phe requirement at an individual level. As a strategy to 
identify components of the exposome that could interfere with Phe utilization, we
tested for metabolites correlating with Phe concentration in plasma of a
non-human primate species, common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The results of 
tests for more than 5,000 chemical features detected by high-resolution
metabolomics showed 17 positive correlations with Phe metabolites and other amino
acids. Positive and negative correlations were also observed for 33 other
chemicals, which included matches to endogenous metabolites and dietary,
microbial and environmental chemicals in database searches. Chemical similarity
analysis showed many of the matches had high structural similarity to Phe.
Together, the results show that chemicals in marmoset plasma could impact Phe
utilization. Such chemicals could contribute to early lifecycle developmental
disorders when neurological development is vulnerable to Phe levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00726-014-1893-x 
PMCID: PMC4329081
PMID: 25526869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

