

1312. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2015 Apr;156(4):565-76. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22683. Epub 2014
Dec 19.

Angular momentum and arboreal stability in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Chadwell BA(1), Young JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH, 44272; Skeletal Biology Research Focus Area, NEOMED,
Rootstown, OH, 44272.

Despite the importance that concepts of arboreal stability have in theories of
primate locomotor evolution, we currently lack measures of balance performance
during primate locomotion. We provide the first quantitative data on locomotor
stability in an arboreal primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
predicting that primates should maximize arboreal stability by minimizing
side-to-side angular momentum about the support (i.e., Lsup ). If net Lsup
becomes excessive, the animal will be unable to arrest its angular movement and
will fall. Using a novel, highly integrative experimental procedure we directly
measured whole-body Lsup in two adult marmosets moving along narrow (2.5 cm
diameter) and broad (5 cm diameter) poles. Marmosets showed a strong preference
for asymmetrical gaits (e.g., gallops and bounds) over symmetrical gaits (e.g.,
walks and runs), with asymmetrical gaits representing >90% of all strides.
Movement on the narrow support was associated with an increase in more "grounded"
gaits (i.e., lacking an aerial phase) and a more even distribution of torque
production between the fore- and hind limbs. These adjustments in gait dynamics
significantly reduced net Lsup on the narrow support relative to the broad
support. Despite their lack of a well-developed grasping apparatus, marmosets
proved adept at producing muscular "grasping" torques about the support,
particularly with the hind limbs. We contend that asymmetrical gaits permit
small-bodied arboreal mammals, including primates, to expand "effective grasp" by
gripping the substrate between left and right limbs of a girdle. This model of
arboreal stability may hold important implications for understanding primate
locomotor evolution.

Â© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22683 
PMID: 25523444  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

