

1323. Neuroscience. 2015 Jan 22;284:566-580. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.10.032.
Epub 2014 Oct 24.

Comparative analysis of developmentally regulated expressions of Gadd45a,
Gadd45b, and Gadd45g in the mouse and marmoset cerebral cortex.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S(2), Oka M(2), Iriki A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Hirosawa 2-1, Wako 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address:
Eiji.Matsunaga@brain.riken.jp.
(2)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Hirosawa 2-1, Wako 351-0198, Japan.

The cerebral cortex is an indispensable region that is involved in higher
cognitive function in the mammalian brain, and is particularly evolved in the
primate brain. It has been demonstrated that cortical areas are formed by both
innate and activity-dependent mechanisms. However, it remains unknown what
molecular changes induce cortical expansion and complexity during primate
evolution. Active DNA methylation/demethylation is one of the epigenetic
mechanisms that can modify gene expression via the methylation/demethylation of
promoter regions. Three growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible small nuclear
proteins, Gadd45 alpha, beta, and gamma, have been identified as regulators of
methylation status. To understand the involvement of epigenetic factors in
primate cortical evolution, we started by analyzing expression of these
demethylation genes in the developing common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and
mouse (Mus musculus) brain. In the marmoset brain, we found that cortical
expression levels of Gadd45 alpha and gamma were reduced during development,
whereas there was high expression of Gadd45 beta in some areas of the adult
brain, including the prefrontal, temporal, posterior parietal and insula
cortices, which are particularly expanded in greater primates and humans.
Compared to the marmoset brain, there were no clear regional differences and
constant or reduced Gadd45 expression was seen between juvenile and adult mouse
brain. Double staining with a neuronal marker revealed that most
Gadd45-expressing cells were NeuN-positive neurons. Thus, these results suggest
the possibility that differential Gadd45 expression affects neurons, contributing
cortical evolution and diversity.

Copyright Â© 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.10.032 
PMID: 25450958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

