

1324. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2014 Dec;127:62-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2014.10.009. Epub 
2014 Oct 31.

L-DOPA-induced behavioral sensitization of motor activity in the MPTP-treated
common marmoset as a Parkinson's disease model.

Ando K(1), Inoue T(2), Itoh T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki 210-0821, Japan.
Electronic address: ando@ciea.or.jp.
(2)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki 210-0821, Japan.

l-DOPA is the gold standard for treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). However,
the drug produces some serious side effects, including dyskinesia, which is
characterized by repetitive involuntary movements-including chorea. In the
present preclinical study using a nonhuman primate model, dyskinesia caused by
repeated l-DOPA administration was investigated in the context of behavioral
sensitization by objectively quantifying motor activity in the common marmoset of
PD model (the Parkinsonian marmoset). Twelve male Parkinsonian marmosets
previously treated with MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) and
six intact male marmosets were used. The motor activity of each marmoset was
measured using infrared sensors attached to each individual living cage.
Parkinsonian marmosets (n=6) exhibited behavioral sensitization (enhanced motor
activity) in 10weeks upon oral administration of l-DOPA (10mg/kg per day on
3days/week). These animals also exhibited dyskinesia characterized by repetitive 
rapid movements including chorea in 6-10weeks. Neither behavioral sensitization
nor dyskinesia was observed in Parkinsonian marmosets given vehicle and in intact
marmosets given l-DOPA at the same dose (both n=6 each). Behavioral sensitization
was detected sensitively and objectively on motor activity only in Parkinsonian
marmosets given repeated l-DOPA at a similar dose used in PD patients. The
behavioral feature of the marmosets was dyskinesia similar to that of PD patients
but appeared earlier than would be manifested in humans. In spite of
statistically significant behavioral sensitization, some marmosets did not
exhibit dyskinesia in the present limited l-DOPA administration period. Although 
both commonalities and differences may exist between behavioral sensitization and
dyskinesia, behavioral sensitization is considered to be an objective,
quantitative, sensitive and predictive measure of behavioral mechanism underlying
dyskinesia in preclinical studies in evaluating compounds.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2014.10.009 
PMID: 25449794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

