

1328. Oncol Rep. 2015 Feb;33(2):958-66. doi: 10.3892/or.2014.3625. Epub 2014 Nov 25.

The V-val subtype Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 promotes cell survival
after serum withdrawal.

Chao M(1), Wang HN(1), Lu YJ(1), Chang YS(1), Yu JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Microbiology, Graduate Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Chang
Gung University, Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yang 333, Taiwan R.O.C.
(2)Molecular Medicine Research Center, College of Medicine, Chang Gung
University, Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yang 333, Taiwan R.O.C.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) can establish latent infection and has been associated
with various human cancers. Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) is the only
viral protein that is expressed in all EBV-associated malignant tissues. The N-
and C-terminal domains of EBNA1, which are connected by internal
glycine/alanine-rich short repeat sequences of various sizes, show sequence
divergence across EBV strains isolated from around the world. At least five
subtypes have been described, according to the amino acid at residue 487: P-ala, 
P-thr, V-val, V-pro, and V-leu. Whether the variations of EBNA-1 contribute to
the pathogenesis of EBV or simply reflect the geographical distribution of EBV
remain to be investigated. Furthermore, the cell effects conferred by EBNA1
subtypes that differ from that of the B95.8 prototype, which belongs to the P-ala
subtype, remain to be elucidated. In this study, PCR was amplified with the
full-length V-val EBNA1 gene from the CG3 cell line, an EBV-carrying
lymphoblastoid cell line derived from a Taiwanese chronic myeloid leukemia
patient. Plasmids expressing His-tagged EBNA1 fusion proteins in E. coli were
constructed and used to raise antibodies in rabbit. The V-val EBNA1 gene was then
cloned into a eukaryotic expression vector and successfully expressed in the
transfected cultured cells. Expression of V-val EBNA1 rendered 293 cells able to 
undergo serumâ€‘independent cell proliferation, providing them with anti-apoptotic 
abilities, which are two characteristics of cancer cells. These data suggested
that use of EBNA1 originally derived from tumor cells, rather than the more
commonly utilized prototype, when investigating the potential role of EBNA1 in
the oncogenesis of EBV-associated malignancies, is crucial.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2014.3625 
PMID: 25434292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

