

1329. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:176-8. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.10.019. Epub 2014 Nov
26.

On-going elucidation of mechanisms of primate specific synaptic spine development
using the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Ichinohe N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Institute of Neurology and Psychiatry (NCNP), 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi,
Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan; Ichinohe Neural System Group, Lab for Molecular
Analysis of Higher Cognitive Function, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Hirosawa
2-1, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address: nichino@ncnp.go.jp.

Recently, pathophysiology of human psychiatry originates from abnormal numbers of
synapses/spines. There are generally two-types of development of spines from
birth depending on species. One is, after birth, synaptogenesis occurs, and there
is a clear peak of spines, and then rapidly pruning occurring, which are called
"overshoot-type" of development of synapses/spines. Primates including human
belong to this type. In other type including rodents, even after a peak, general 
number of spines does not decrease so much. Although these differences, most of
human psychiatric models have been genetic modified rodents. Now, transgenic
primate (the common marmoset) became available. In near future, we can, examine
pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders using this animal model, which is closer
to human being. To begin with this endeavor, we should know how synapses/spines
of normal marmosets developed, and molecular mechanisms of "overshoot-type" of
spine development, which human being also shows. Here, we will present our recent
effort to explore these questions, and future experiments will be discussed.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.10.019 
PMID: 25433092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

