

1330. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:326524. doi: 10.1155/2014/326524. Epub 2014 Nov
6.

Behavioral adjustments by a small neotropical primate (Callithrix jacchus) in a
semiarid Caatinga environment.

De la Fuente MF(1), Souto A(2), Sampaio MB(1), Schiel N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Rua Dom
Manoel de Medeiros, s/n, Dois Irmãos, 52171-900 Recife, PE, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Avenida Prof.
Moraes Rego, No. 1235, Cidade Universitária, 50670-901 Recife, PE, Brazil.

We provide the first information on the behavior of a small primate (Callithrix
jacchus) inhabiting a semiarid Caatinga environment in northeastern Brazil. We
observed behavioral variations in response to temperature fluctuation throughout 
the day. Due to the high temperatures, low precipitation, and resource scarcity
in the Caatinga, as well as the lack of physiological adaptations (e.g., a highly
concentrated urine and a carotid rete to cool down the brain) of these primates, 
we expected that the common marmosets would exhibit behavioral adjustments, such 
as a prolonged resting period or the use of a large home range. During the
six-month period, we collected 246 hours of behavioral data of two groups (10
individuals) of Callithrix jacchus. Most of the observed behavioral patterns were
influenced by temperature fluctuation. Animals rested longer and reduced other
activities, such as foraging, when temperatures were higher. Both study groups
exploited home ranges of 2.21-3.26 ha, which is within the range described for
common marmosets inhabiting the Atlantic Forest. Our findings confirm that common
marmosets inhabiting the Caatinga adjust their behavioral patterns to cope with
the high temperatures that characterize this environment and highlight their
ability to survive across a wide range of different environmental conditions.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/326524 
PMCID: PMC4241275
PMID: 25431785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

