

1331. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2014 Nov 24;12:114. doi: 10.1186/1477-7827-12-114.

Making gametes from pluripotent stem cells--a promising role for very small
embryonic-like stem cells.

Bhartiya D(1), Hinduja I, Patel H, Bhilawadikar R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Department, National Institute for Research in Reproductive 
Health (ICMR), Mumbai 400 012, India. deepa.bhartiya@yahoo.in.

The urge to have one's own biological child supersedes any desire in life.
Several options have been used to obtain gametes including pluripotent stem cells
(embryonic ES and induced pluripotent iPS stem cells); gonadal stem cells
(spermatogonial SSCs, ovarian OSCs stem cells), bone marrow, mesenchymal cells
and fetal skin. However, the field poses a huge challenge including inefficient
existing protocols for differentiation, epigenetic and genetic changes associated
with extensive in vitro manipulation and also ethical/regulatory constraints. A
tremendous leap in the field occurred using mouse ES and iPS cells wherein they
were first differentiated into epiblast-like cells and then primordial germ
cell-like cells. These on further development produced sperm, oocytes and live
offspring (had associated genetic problems). Evidently differentiating
pluripotent stem cells into primordial germ cells (PGCs) remains a major
bottleneck. Against this backdrop, we propose that a novel population of
pluripotent stem cells termed very small embryonic-like stem cells (VSELs) may
serve as an alternative, potential source of autologus gametes, keeping in mind
that they are indeed PGCs surviving in adult mammalian ovaries and testes. Both
VSELs and PGCs are pluripotent, relatively quiescent because of epigenetic
modifications of parentally imprinted genes loci like Igf2-H19 and KCNQ1p57,
share several markers like Stella, Fragilis, Mvh, Dppa2, Dppa4, Sall4, Blimp1 and
functional receptors. VSELs are localized in the basement membrane of
seminiferous tubules in testis and in the ovary surface epithelium. Ovarian stem 
cells from mouse, rabbit, sheep, marmoset and humans (menopausal women and those 
with premature ovarian failure) spontaneously differentiate into oocyte-like
structures in vitro with no additional requirement of growth factors. Thus a more
pragmatic option to obtain autologus gametes may be the pluripotent VSELs and if 
we could manipulate them in vivo - existing ethical and epigenetic/genetic
concerns associated with in vitro culture may also be minimized. The field of
oncofertility may undergo a sea-change and existing strategies of
cryopreservation of gametes and gonadal tissue for fertility preservation in
cancer patients will necessitate a revision. However, first the scientific
community needs to arrive at a consensus about VSELs in the gonads and then work 
towards exploiting their potential.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-12-114 
PMCID: PMC4255929
PMID: 25421462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

