

1336. J Toxicol Pathol. 2014 Oct;27(3-4):183-95. doi: 10.1293/tox.2013-0055. Epub 2014 
Jul 3.

Five-sixth Nephrectomy in Female Common Marmosets(Callithrix jacchus) as a
Chronic Renal Failure Model: -A Longitudinal Course of Serum Biochemical,
Hematological and Histopathological Changes-.

Yamaguchi I(1), Myojo K(1), Sanada H(1), Takami A(1), Suzuki Y(2), Imaizumi M(1),
Takada C(1), Kimoto N(1), Saeki K(1), Yamate J(3), Takaba K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fuji Research Park, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188 Shimotogari,
Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.
(2)Fuji Research Park, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., 1188 Shimotogari,
Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan ; Veterinary Pathology, Osaka 
Prefecture University, 1-58 Rinkuu Ourai Kita, Izumisano, Osaka 598-8531, Japan.
(3)Veterinary Pathology, Osaka Prefecture University, 1-58 Rinkuu Ourai Kita,
Izumisano, Osaka 598-8531, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Toxicol Pathol. 2016 Jan;29(1):74.

To assess the relevance and availability of subtotal nephrectomized common
marmoset monkeys as a chronic renal failure (CRF) model, we observed for 26 weeks
the pathophysiological condition of female marmosets subjected to five-sixth
surgical nephrectomy (5/6Nx) by a two-step surgical method. The 5/6Nx marmosets
showed a significant increase in serum levels of urea nitrogen, creatinine and
cystatin-C immediately after 5/6Nx surgery. These renal disorder parameters
subsequently tended to decrease with the passage of time but remained higher than
the control levels by the end of the study. Hyperplastic parathyroid glands, a
high turnover state of osteodystrophy in the femoral bone with higher serum ALP
activity and anemia with hypocellularity of bone marrow were evident. The 5/6Nx
marmosets showed a stable CRF condition for a long time and some characteristic
disorders similar to those observed in CRF patients. These diagnostic aspects
might be a species-specific anatomical and physiological signature, reflecting
the nutritional condition. The CRF model using 5/6Nx marmosets might become a
useful method of evaluating the unique mechanism of CRF development.

DOI: 10.1293/tox.2013-0055 
PMCID: PMC4217228
PMID: 25378803 

