

1337. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 5;9(11):e112321. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112321.
eCollection 2014.

Vegetable exudates as food for Callithrix spp. (Callitrichidae): exploratory
patterns.

Francisco TM(1), Couto DR(2), Zanuncio JC(1), Serrão JE(3), Silva Ide O(1), Boere
V(4).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36570-900,
Viçosa, MG, Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Botânica/Museu Nacional, Universidade Federal do Rio de
Janeiro, 20940-040, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Federal de Viçosa, 36570-900,
Viçosa, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de
Viçosa, 36570-900, Viçosa, Brazil.

Marmosets of the genus Callithrix are specialized in the consumption of tree
exudates to obtain essential nutritional resource by boring holes into bark with 
teeth. However, marmoset preferences for particular tree species, location, type,
and other suitable factors that aid in exudate acquisition need further research.
In the current study, the intensity of exudate use from Anadenanthera peregrina
var. peregrina trees by hybrid marmosets Callithrix spp. groups was studied in
five forest fragments in Viçosa, in the state of Minas, Brazil. Thirty-nine A.
peregrina var. peregrina trees were examined and 8,765 active and non-active
holes were analyzed. The trunk of A. peregrina var. peregrina had a lower number 
of holes than the canopy: 11% were found on the trunk and 89% were found on the
canopy. The upper canopy was the preferred area by Callithrix spp. for obtaining 
exudates. The intensity of tree exploitation by marmosets showed a
moderate-to-weak correlation with diameter at breast height (DBH) and total tree 
height. The overall results indicate that Anadenanthera peregrina var. peregrina 
provides food resources for hybrid marmosets (Callithrix spp.) and these animals 
prefer to explore this resource on the apical parts of the plant, where the
thickness, location, and age of the branches are the main features involved in
the acquisition of exudates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112321 
PMCID: PMC4221360
PMID: 25372137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

