

1343. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:136-43. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.10.001. Epub 2014
Oct 12.

Individual variability in visual discrimination and reversal learning performance
in common marmosets.

Takemoto A(1), Miwa M(1), Koba R(1), Yamaguchi C(1), Suzuki H(1), Nakamura K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan.
(2)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
41-2 Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
nakamura.katsuki.4z@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Detailed information about the characteristics of learning behavior in marmosets 
is useful for future marmoset research. We trained 42 marmosets in visual
discrimination and reversal learning. All marmosets could learn visual
discrimination, and all but one could complete reversal learning, though some
marmosets failed to touch the visual stimuli and were screened out. In 87% of
measurements, the final percentage of correct responses was over 95%. We
quantified performance with two measures: onset trial and dynamic interval. Onset
trial represents the number of trials that elapsed before the marmoset started to
learn. Dynamic interval represents the number of trials from the start before
reaching the final percentage of correct responses. Both measures decreased
drastically as a result of the formation of discrimination learning sets. In
reversal learning, both measures worsened, but the effect on onset trial was far 
greater. The effects of age and sex were not significant as far as we used
adolescent or young adult marmosets. Unexpectedly, experimental circumstance (in 
the colony or isolator) had only a subtle effect on performance. However, we
found that marmosets from different families exhibited different learning process
characteristics, suggesting some family effect on learning.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.10.001 
PMID: 25315397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

