

1349. Dev Growth Differ. 2014 Oct;56(8):535-43. doi: 10.1111/dgd.12154. Epub 2014 Oct
3.

Complementary and dynamic type II cadherin expression associated with development
of the primate visual system.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S, Oka M, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Hirosawa 2-1, Wako, 351-0198, Japan.

The middle temporal visual area (MT, also known as V5) is a visual association
area that is particularly evolved in the primate brain. The MT receives input
from the primary visual area (V1), constitutes part of the dorsal visual pathway,
and plays an essential role in processing motion. Connections between the MT and 
V1 in the primate brain are formed after birth, and are related to the maturation
of visual system. However, it remains to be determined what molecular mechanisms 
control the formation and maturation of the visual system. Cadherins are
transmembrane proteins, originally isolated as cell adhesion molecules, which
have multiple roles in synapse formation and function. To investigate potential
involvement of cadherins in development of the primate visual system, we examined
type II cadherin expression (cadherin-6, -8, -12) in cortical and thalamic visual
areas of pre- and postnatal brains of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
In the prenatal brain, cadherin-6 was dominantly expressed in the pulvino-MT
pathway whereas cadherin-8 was dominant in the lateral geniculate nucleus
(LGN)-V1 pathway. During postnatal development, there was a downregulation of
cadherin-6 and upregulation of cadherin-8 expression in the MT. The timing of
this cadherin exchange preceded the development of V1-MT connections. Our results
suggest the possibility that changes in cadherin expression are involved in the
development of the primate visual system, and that a switch in cadherin
expression may be a general mechanism to control neural plasticity of highly
cognitive abilities.

© 2014 The Authors Development, Growth & Differentiation © 2014 Japanese Society 
of Developmental Biologists.

DOI: 10.1111/dgd.12154 
PMID: 25283545  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

