

1351. Neurosci Res. 2015 Apr;93:3-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.08.014. Epub 2014 Sep
27.

Brain-mapping projects using the common marmoset.

Okano H(1), Mitra P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Brain Science Institute RIKEN,
2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan; Department of Physiology, Keio
University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan. 
Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.
(2)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, NY 11724, United 
States.

Globally, there is an increasing interest in brain-mapping projects, including
the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN)
Initiative project in the USA, the Human Brain Project (HBP) in Europe, and the
Brain Mapping by Integrated Neurotechnologies for Disease Studies (Brain/MINDS)
project in Japan. These projects aim to map the structure and function of
neuronal circuits to ultimately understand the vast complexity of the human
brain. Brain/MINDS is focused on structural and functional mapping of the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain. This non-human primate has numerous
advantages for brain mapping, including a well-developed frontal cortex and a
compact brain size, as well as the availability of transgenic technologies. In
the present review article, we discuss strategies for structural and functional
mapping of the marmoset brain and the relation of the common marmoset to other
animals models.

Copyright Â© 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.08.014 
PMID: 25264372  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

