

1353. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 26;9(9):e107911. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107911.
eCollection 2014.

Encapsulating non-human primate multipotent stromal cells in alginate via high
voltage for cell-based therapies and cryopreservation.

Gryshkov O(1), Pogozhykh D(1), Hofmann N(1), Pogozhykh O(2), Mueller T(2),
Glasmacher B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universitaet Hannover, Hannover,
Germany.
(2)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Alginate cell-based therapy requires further development focused on clinical
application. To assess engraftment, risk of mutations and therapeutic benefit
studies should be performed in an appropriate non-human primate model, such as
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). In this work we encapsulated amnion
derived multipotent stromal cells (MSCs) from Callithrix jacchus in defined size 
alginate beads using a high voltage technique. Our results indicate that i)
alginate-cell mixing procedure and cell concentration do not affect the diameter 
of alginate beads, ii) encapsulation of high cell numbers (up to 10Ã—106 cells/ml)
can be performed in alginate beads utilizing high voltage and iii) high voltage
(15-30 kV) does not alter the viability, proliferation and differentiation
capacity of MSCs post-encapsulation compared with alginate encapsulated cells
produced by the traditional air-flow method. The consistent results were obtained
over the period of 7 days of encapsulated MSCs culture and after cryopreservation
utilizing a slow cooling procedure (1 K/min). The results of this work show that 
high voltage encapsulation can further be maximized to develop cell-based
therapies with alginate beads in a non-human primate model towards human
application.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107911 
PMCID: PMC4178041
PMID: 25259731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

