

1354. Brain Behav Evol. 2014;84(2):93-102. doi: 10.1159/000365346. Epub 2014 Sep 20.

Convergent evolution of vocal cooperation without convergent evolution of brain
size.

Borjon JI(1), Ghazanfar AA.

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J., USA.

One pragmatic underlying successful vocal communication is the ability to take
turns. Taking turns - a form of cooperation - facilitates the transmission of
signals by reducing the amount of their overlap. This allows vocalizations to be 
better heard. Until recently, non-human primates were not thought of as
particularly cooperative, especially in the vocal domain. We recently
demonstrated that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World
primate species, take turns when they exchange vocalizations with both related
and unrelated conspecifics. As the common marmoset is distantly related to humans
(and there is no documented evidence that Old World primates exhibit vocal turn
taking), we argue that this ability arose as an instance of convergent evolution,
and is part of a suite of prosocial behavioral tendencies. Such behaviors seem to
be, at least in part, the outcome of the cooperative breeding strategy adopted by
both humans and marmosets. Importantly, this suite of shared behaviors occurs
without correspondence in encephalization. Marmoset vocal turn taking
demonstrates that a large brain size and complex cognitive machinery is not
needed for vocal cooperation to occur. Consistent with this idea, the temporal
structure of marmoset vocal exchanges can be described in terms of coupled
oscillator dynamics, similar to quantitative descriptions of human conversations.
We propose a simple neural circuit mechanism that may account for these dynamics 
and, at its core, involves vocalization-induced reductions of arousal. Such a
mechanism may underlie the evolution of vocal turn taking in both marmoset
monkeys and humans.

Â© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000365346 
PMCID: PMC7592170
PMID: 25247613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

