

1355. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Dec 15;275:259-68. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.09.020. Epub
2014 Sep 22.

Three-dimensional motion analysis of arm-reaching movements in healthy and
hemispinalized common marmosets.

Takemi M(1), Kondo T(2), Yoshino-Saito K(2), Sekiguchi T(1), Kosugi A(1), Kasuga 
S(3), Okano HJ(4), Okano H(2), Ushiba J(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Fundamental Science and Technology, Graduate School of Science and
Technology, Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(5)Department of Biosciences and Informatics, Faculty of Science and Technology, 
Keio University, Kanagawa, Japan; Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Keio
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address:
ushiba@brain.bio.keio.ac.jp.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating neurological injury. At present,
pharmacological, regenerative, and rehabilitative approaches are widely studied
as therapeutic interventions for motor recovery after SCI. Preclinical research
has been performed on model animals with experimental SCI, and those studies
often evaluate hand and arm motor function using various indices, such as the
success rate of the single pellet reaching test and the grip force. However,
compensatory movement strategies, involuntary muscle contraction, and the
subject's motivation could affect the scores, resulting in failure to assess
direct recovery from impairment. Identifying appropriate assessments of motor
impairment is thus important for understanding the mechanisms of motor recovery. 
In this study, we developed a motion capture system capable of reconstructing
three-dimensional hand positions with millimeter and millisecond accuracy and
evaluated hand kinematics during food retrieval movement in both healthy and
hemispinalized common marmosets. As a result, the endpoint jerk, representing the
accuracy of hand motor control, was asserted to be an appropriate index of upper 
limb motor impairment by eliminating the influence of the subject's motivation,
involuntary muscle contraction, and compensatory strategies. The result also
suggested that the kinematics of the limb more consistently reflects motor
restoration from deficit due to spinal cord injury than the performance in the
single pellet reaching test. Because of recent attention devoted to the common
marmoset as a nonhuman primate model for human diseases, the present study, which
clarified arm-reaching movements in spinalized marmosets, provides fundamental
knowledge for future therapeutic studies.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2014.09.020 
PMID: 25245335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

