

136. Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2021 Aug;39:100398. doi: 10.1016/j.dmpk.2021.100398.
Epub 2021 Apr 17.

Cloning, sequence analysis, and tissue expression of marmoset paraoxonase 1.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(2), Shimizu M(1), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Japan.
(2)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Japan. Electronic address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Paraoxonase (PON) plays roles in the metabolism of organophosphate xenobiotics
and drugs. Despite the importance of marmosets for research into drug metabolism 
and pharmacokinetics, marmoset paraoxonase has not yet been fully characterized. 
Consequently, we identified the PON1 gene in the marmoset genome by sequence
homology analysis. Marmoset PON1 cDNA containing an open reading frame (1065 bp) 
was successfully cloned from marmoset liver by reverse transcription-polymerase
chain reaction. The deduced amino acid sequence (355 amino acids) has
approximately 93% identity with the human ortholog and contains important amino
acid residues for substrate binding and calcium ion coordination. According to a 
phylogenetic tree of PON1 amino acid sequences constructed using data from seven 
animal species, marmoset PON1 is closer to human PON1 than it is to the PON1
orthologs of experimental animals such as pigs, rabbits, rats, and mice. Marmoset
PON1 mRNA was predominantly expressed in liver among the five tissues examined.
Marmoset PON1 protein secreted into plasma was detected by immunoblotting. The
paraoxon-hydrolyzing activity in plasma was higher in marmosets than in humans.
Based on these data, we concluded that marmoset and human PON1 have similar
characteristics with regard to genomic structure, amino acid sequences, and
tissue distribution.

Copyright Â© 2021 The Japanese Society for the Study of Xenobiotics. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dmpk.2021.100398 
PMID: 33992953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.

