

1360. Mol Hum Reprod. 2015 Jan;21(1):66-80. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gau088. Epub 2014 Sep
18.

Primordial germ cell development in the marmoset monkey as revealed by
pluripotency factor expression: suggestion of a novel model of embryonic germ
cell translocation.

Aeckerle N(1), Drummer C(1), Debowski K(1), Viebahn C(2), Behr R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center - Leibniz Institute for Primate 
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Center of Anatomy, University of
Göttingen, Kreuzbergring 36, 37075 Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center - Leibniz Institute for Primate 
Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany rbehr@dpz.eu.

Erratum in
    Mol Hum Reprod. 2015 Jun;21(6):552.

Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are the embryonic progenitors of sperm and egg
cells. Mammalian PGCs are thought to actively migrate from the yolk sac endoderm 
over long distances across the embryo to reach the somatic genital ridges. The
general principles of mammalian PGC development were discovered in mice. In
contrast, little is known about PGC development in primates due to extremely
limited access to primate embryos. Here, we analyzed 12 well preserved marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus) embryos covering the phase from PGC emergence in the 
endoderm to the formation of the sexually differentiated gonad (embryonic day (E)
50 to E95). We show using immunohistochemistry that the pluripotency factors
OCT4A and NANOG specifically mark PGCs throughout the period studied. In
contrast, SALL4 and LIN28 were first expressed ubiquitously and only later
down-regulated in somatic tissues. We further show, for the first time, that PGCs
are located in the endoderm in E50 embryos in close spatial proximity to the
prospective genital ridge, making a long-range migration of PGCs dispensable. At 
E65, PGCs are already present in the primitive gonad, while significantly later
embryonic stages still exhibit PGCs at their original endodermal site, revealing 
a wide spatio-temporal window of PGC distribution. Our findings challenge the
'dogma' of active long-range PGC migration from the endoderm to the gonads. We
therefore favor an alternative model based primarily on passive translocation of 
PGCs from the mesenchyme that surrounds the gut to the prospective gonad through 
the intercalar expansion of mesenchymal tissue which contains the PGCs. In
summary, we (i) show differential pluripotency factor expression during primate
embryo development and (ii) provide a schematic model for embryonic PGC
translocation.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gau088 
PMCID: PMC4275041
PMID: 25237007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

