

1361. Am J Primatol. 2015 Mar;77(3):264-70. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22342. Epub 2014 Sep 17.

Long-term fidelity of foraging techniques in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Gunhold T(1), Range F, Huber L, Bugnyar T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

The formation of behavioral traditions has been considered as one of the main
building blocks of culture. Numerous studies on social learning in different
animal species provide evidence for their capability of successful transmission
of information. However, questions concerning the memory and maintenance of this 
information have received comparably little attention. After the innovation and
initial spread of a novel behavior, the behavior should stabilize and be
maintained over time. Otherwise, the behavioral pattern might collapse and no
tradition formation would be possible. The aim of this study was to investigate
long-term preferences in a two-action manipulation task in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). Three captive family groups (23 individuals in total) were 
trained on one of two possible techniques to open a wooden box and gain access to
a food reward, by either pulling or pushing a flap door. The training phase took 
place in a family group setting, while the test phase was conducted individually.
Although the subjects could experience the alternative technique during the test 
sessions, the majority preferentially used the technique learned in the group
setting. Moreover, the subjects were re-tested six times over a period of more
than four years, in order to examine the fidelity of their preferences. The
longest break without exposure the task lasted for 3.5 years. In all tests, the
marmosets showed a similar preference as in the first test block shortly after
the training. To our knowledge, this is the first lab study that experimentally
demonstrates memory and fidelity of experimentally seeded information in a
manipulation task over a time period of several years, supporting the assumption 
that socially learned foraging techniques can lead to relatively stable
behavioral traditions.

Â© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22342 
PMCID: PMC4371577
PMID: 25231356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

