

1368. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2014 Dec;155(4):522-36. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.22605. Epub 2014
Sep 3.

Hybridization effects and genetic diversity of the common and black-tufted
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus and Callithrix penicillata) mitochondrial control
region.

Malukiewicz J(1), Boere V, Fuzessy LF, Grativol AD, French JA, de Oliveira e
Silva I, Pereira LC, Ruiz-Miranda CR, Valença YM, Stone AC.

Author information: 
(1)School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University, Tempe, 
AZ, 85287.

Erratum in
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2015 Sep;158(1):173.

Hybridization is continually documented in primates, but effects of natural and
anthropogenic hybridization on biodiversity are still unclear and differentiating
between these contexts remains challenging in regards to primate evolution and
conservation. Here, we examine hybridization effects on the mitochondrial DNA
(mtDNA) control region of Callithrix marmosets, which provide a unique glimpse
into interspecific mating under distinct anthropogenic and natural conditions.
DNA was sampled from 40 marmosets along a 50-km transect from a previously
uncharacterized hybrid zone in NE Brazil between the ranges of Callithrix jacchus
and Callithrix penicillata. DNA was also collected from 46 marmosets along a
30-km transect in a hybrid zone in Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil, where exotic
marmosets appeared in the 1980s. Combining Callithrix DNA sampled inside and
outside of these hybrid zones, phylogenetic and network analyses show C. jacchus 
and C. penicillata being parental species to sampled hybrids. We expand limited
Callithrix population genetics work by describing mtDNA diversity and demographic
history of these parental species. We show ancient population expansion in C.
jacchus and historically constant population size in C. penicillata, with the
latter being more genetically diverse than the former. The natural hybrid zone
contained higher genetic diversity relative to the anthropogenic zone. While our 
data suggest hybrid swarm formation within the anthropogenic zone due to removed 
physical reproductive barriers, this pattern is not seen in the natural hybrid
zone. These results suggest different genetic dynamics within natural and
anthropogenic hybridization contexts that carry important implications for
primate evolution and conservation.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.22605 
PMID: 25186076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

