

1375. Lab Anim (NY). 2014 Sep;43(9):313-20. doi: 10.1038/laban.568.

Evaluation of ultrasonic vocalizations in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
as a potential indicator of welfare.

Bakker J(1), van Nijnatten TJ(2), Louwerse AL(1), Baarends G(3), Arndt SS(4),
Langermans JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(2)University of Applied Sciences HAS, Den Bosch, the Netherlands.
(3)1] University of Applied Sciences HAS, Den Bosch, the Netherlands. [2]
Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Animals in Science &Society, Division of Animal Welfare
&Laboratory Animal Science, Utrecht University, the Netherlands.

The vocal repertoire in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) has been assumed to
consist not only of vocalizations audible to humans but also of ultrasonic
vocalizations (USVs). The use of USVs to socially indicate distress has not been 
evaluated in this species, however. The authors analyzed the ultrasonic vocal
repertoire of the common marmoset under normal housing conditions, under various 
experimental manipulations intended to elicit positive or negative emotional
responses and during stressful experiences including blood draw and exposure to a
perceived predator. Analysis of the recordings showed that marmosets produced
vocalizations with ultrasonic components as part of their normal vocal
repertoire, but these vocalizations all have audible components as well. Only 4
of the 13 types of vocalizations had ultrasonic components. These ultrasonic
components were not reliably associated with responses to different experimental 
manipulations, suggesting that they are not used to indicate pain, discomfort or 
distress.

DOI: 10.1038/laban.568 
PMID: 25141062  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

