

1380. Brain Pathol. 2015 May;25(3):276-86. doi: 10.1111/bpa.12180. Epub 2014 Sep 12.

Increased Meningeal T and Plasma Cell Infiltration is Associated with Early
Subpial Cortical Demyelination in Common Marmosets with Experimental Autoimmune
Encephalomyelitis.

Kramann N(1), Neid K, Menken L, Schlumbohm C, Stadelmann C, Fuchs E, Brück W,
Wegner C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen,
Germany.

Subpial cortical demyelination (SCD) accounts for the greatest proportion of
demyelinated cortex in multiple sclerosis (MS). SCD is already found in biopsy
cases with early MS and in marmosets with experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE), but the pathogenesis of SCD is not well understood. The 
objective of this study was to investigate whether and, if so, which meningeal
inflammatory cells were associated with early SCD in marmosets with EAE.
Immunohistochemistry was performed to analyze brain samples from eight control
animals and eight marmosets immunized with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein.
Meningeal T, B and plasma cells were quantified adjacent to SCD, normal-appearing
EAE cortex (NAC) and control marmoset cortex. SCD areas appeared mostly
hypocellular with low-grade microglial activation. In marmosets with EAE,
meninges adjacent to SCD showed significantly increased T cells paralleled by
elevated plasma cells, but unaltered B cell numbers compared with NAC. The
elevation of meningeal T and plasma cells was a specific finding topographically 
associated with SCD, as the meninges overlying NAC displayed similarly low T, B
and plasma cell numbers as control cortex. These findings suggest that local
meningeal T and plasma cell infiltration contributes to the pathogenesis of SCD
in marmosets with EAE.

© 2014 International Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/bpa.12180 
PMCID: PMC8028918
PMID: 25041171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

