

1383. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2014 Nov;49:1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2014.06.020. 
Epub 2014 Jul 3.

Oxytocin facilitates fidelity in well-established marmoset pairs by reducing
sociosexual behavior toward opposite-sex strangers.

Cavanaugh J(1), Mustoe AC(2), Taylor JH(2), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
- Omaha, USA. Electronic address: jonryancavanaug@unomaha.edu.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
- Omaha, USA.
(3)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
- Omaha, USA; Department of Biology, University of Nebraska - Omaha, USA.

Behavioral strategies that facilitate the maintenance of social bonds are
critical for the preservation of high-quality social relationships. Central
oxytocin (OT) activity modulates the behavioral features of socially monogamous
relationships in a number of mammalian species (including marmoset monkeys), and 
plays a vital role in the behavioral maintenance of long-term social
relationships. Two distinct variants of OT have been identified in some New World
primates (including marmosets; Lee et al., 2011). The marmoset variant of the
oxytocin ligand (Pro(8)-OT) is structurally distinct from the consensus mammalian
variant of the oxytocin ligand (Leu(8)-OT), due to a proline substitution at the 
8th amino-acid position. The goal of the present study was to determine if
treating marmosets with Pro(8)-OT, relative to treatments with Leu(8)-OT, control
saline, or an OT antagonist, had modulatory effects on the behavioral maintenance
of long-term social relationships in marmosets. Treatment with the Pro(8)
variant, but not the Leu(8) variant, of OT facilitated fidelity with a long-term 
partner by reducing time spent in close proximity with an opposite-sex stranger. 
However, this facilitative effect of Pro(8)-OT on proximity behavior manifested
itself differently in male and female marmosets, such that females preferred to
interact socially with their partner rather than a stranger when treated with
Pro(8)-OT, while males spent less time in close proximity with both their partner
and a stranger when treated with Pro(8)-OT. Furthermore, treatment with
Pro(8)-OT, but not Leu(8)-OT, significantly delayed the expression of sexual
solicitation behavior toward an opposite-sex stranger in both male and female
marmosets, but had no effect on sociosexual behavior directed toward a long-term 
partner. These results suggest that the OT system is highly involved in reducing 
fidelity-threatening behaviors in well-established marmoset pairs, and that the
effects were only produced by species-specific OT ligands.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2014.06.020 
PMCID: PMC4165758
PMID: 25038478  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

