

1390. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:927685. doi: 10.1155/2014/927685. Epub 2014 May 27.

Individual differences in gambling proneness among rats and common marmosets: an 
automated choice task.

Zoratto F(1), Sinclair E(2), Manciocco A(3), Vitale A(2), Laviola G(2), Adriani
W(2).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Cell Biology and
Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Viale Regina Elena 299, 00161 Rome, 
Italy ; Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(2)Section of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Cell Biology and
Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Viale Regina Elena 299, 00161 Rome, 
Italy.
(3)Section of Behavioural Neuroscience, Department of Cell Biology and
Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Viale Regina Elena 299, 00161 Rome, 
Italy ; Istituto di Scienze e Tecnologie della Cognizione, National Research
Council (ISTC-CNR), Rome, Italy.

Interest is rising for animal modeling of pathological gambling. Using the
operant probabilistic-delivery task (PDT), gambling proneness can be evaluated in
laboratory animals. Drawing a comparison with rats, this study evaluated the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using a PDT. By nose- or hand-poking,
subjects learnt to prefer a large (LLL, 5-6 pellets) over a small (SS, 1-2
pellets) reward and, subsequently, the probability of occurrence of large-reward 
delivery was decreased progressively to very low levels (from 100% to 17% and
14%). As probability decreased, subjects showed a great versus little shift in
preference from LLL to SS reinforcer. Hence, two distinct subpopulations
("non-gambler" versus "gambler") were differentiated within each species. A proof
of the model validity comes from marmosets' reaction to reward-delivery omission.
Namely, depending on individual temperament ("gambler" versus "non-gambler"),
they showed either persistence (i.e., inadequate pokes towards LLL) or
restlessness (i.e., inadequate pokes towards SS), respectively. In conclusion,
the marmoset could be a suitable model for preclinical gambling studies.
Implementation of the PDT to species other than rats may be relevant for
determining its external validity/generalizability and improving its
face/construct validity.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/927685 
PMCID: PMC4058269
PMID: 24971360  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

