

1394. J Gen Virol. 2014 Sep;95(Pt 9):1892-1899. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.066746-0. Epub 2014 
Jun 9.

Evolutionary genetics of genotype H1 measles viruses in China from 1993 to 2012.

Xu S(1), Zhang Y(1), Rivailler P(2), Wang H(1), Ji Y(1), Zhen Z(1), Mao N(1), Li 
C(3), Bellini WJ(2), Xu W(1), Rota PA(2).

Author information: 
(1)WHO Regional Reference Laboratory for Measles for the Western Pacific Region, 
National Institute for Viral Disease Control and Prevention, China Center for
Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing 102206, PR China.
(2)Division of Viral Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Shanghai Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Shanghai City, PR China.

Virologic surveillance is a critical component of measles management. One of the 
criteria for verification of elimination of endemic measles is genetic analysis
of wild-type viruses to demonstrate lack of an indigenous genotype. Measles is
yet to be eliminated in China, and genotype H1 has been detected continuously
since virologic surveillance was initiated in 1993. Virologic surveillance has
been very active in China, providing a unique opportunity to conduct a detailed
study of the evolution of a single, endemic genotype over a timespan of nearly
two decades. Phylogenetic analysis performed on the 450 nt coding sequence for
the C-terminal 150 amino acids of the nucleoprotein (N-450), fusion (F) gene and 
haemagglutinin (H) gene confirmed the continued circulation of genotype H1
viruses for 19 years. No evidence of selective pressure for the H protein was
found. The substitution rates ranged from 0.75×10(-3) substitutions site(-1)
year(-1) for H to 1.65×10(-3) substitutions site(-1) year(-1) for N-450. The time
of most recent common ancestor (TMRCA) for genotype H1 was estimated as
approximately 1985 (95 % highest probability density, 1979-1989). Finally, the
overall diversity of measles sequences from China decreased from 2005 to 2012,
coincident with a substantial decrease in measles cases. The results suggest that
detailed evolutionary analyses should facilitate the documentation of eventual
measles elimination in China. Moreover, the molecular approaches used in this
study can be applied in other countries approaching measles elimination.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.066746-0 
PMCID: PMC4135087
PMID: 24914068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

