

1398. Anim Behav. 2014 May;91(100):79-91.

Memory, transmission and persistence of alternative foraging techniques in wild
common marmosets.

Gunhold T(1), Massen JJ(1), Schiel N(2), Souto A(3), Bugnyar T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(3)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

Experimental studies on traditions in animals have focused almost entirely on the
initial transmission phase in captive populations. We conducted an open diffusion
field experiment with 13 groups of wild common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.
Seven groups contained individuals that were already familiar with the task
('push or pull' box) and thus served as potential models for naïve individuals.
Additionally, in four groups one individual was trained for one of the two
possible techniques and in two control groups no skilled individuals were
present. First, we investigated whether experienced individuals would remember
how to solve the task even after 2 years without exposure and whether they would 
still prefer their learned technique. Second, we tested whether naïve individuals
would learn socially from their skilled family members and, more importantly,
whether they would use the same technique. Third, we conducted several test
blocks to see whether the individual and/or group behaviour would persist over
time. Our results show that wild common marmosets were able to memorize, learn
socially and maintain preferences of foraging techniques. This field experiment
thus reveals a promising approach to studying social learning in the wild and
provides the basis for long-term studies on tradition formation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anbehav.2014.02.023 
PMCID: PMC4045399
PMID: 24910466 

