

140. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2021 Aug;394(8):1685-1692. doi:
10.1007/s00210-021-02090-6. Epub 2021 May 8.

Further characterisation of psychosis-like behaviours induced by L-DOPA in the
MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Kwan C(1), Nuara SG(2), Gourdon JC(2), Huot P(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), 3801 University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), 3801 University St, Montreal, QC, H3A 2B4, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(4)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Parkinson's disease (PD) psychosis afflicts over half of patients and poses a
significant burden on quality of life. The aetiology of PD psychosis is
multifactorial and likely arises from the complex interaction between dopamine
replacement therapy and disease state. The
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmoset is a
validated model to predict the efficacy of therapeutic compounds for
treatment-related complications, including PD psychosis. In this model,
psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs) encompass stereotypies that are idiosyncratic in
nature and reproducible with each L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylanaline (L-DOPA)
administration. In the present study, we sought to expand upon the existing
repertoire of PLBs through the characterisation of novel stereotypical behaviours
that appear dependent on the environment. We then discuss our findings in the
context of clinical reports on stereotypical behaviours termed "punding" in
subjects with PD, which consists of stereotypical repetitive and senseless
behaviours. The poor understanding of the pathophysiology governing punding and
consequent lack of effective therapies stand to benefit from enhanced
characterisation of these stereotypical behaviours in a validated pre-clinical
model. We hope that further characterisation of PLBs in the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset will be helpful in the evaluation of interventions that seek to
alleviate PD psychosis symptoms.

Â© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany,
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-021-02090-6 
PMID: 33963876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

