

1401. J Comp Neurol. 2014 Nov 1;522(16):3683-716. doi: 10.1002/cne.23633. Epub 2014 Jun
16.

Patterns of afferent input to the caudal and rostral areas of the dorsal premotor
cortex (6DC and 6DR) in the marmoset monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Bakola S, Richardson KE, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.

Corticocortical projections to the caudal and rostral areas of dorsal premotor
cortex (6DC and 6DR, also known as F2 and F7) were studied in the marmoset
monkey. Both areas received their main thalamic inputs from the ventral anterior 
and ventral lateral complexes, and received dense projections from the medial
premotor cortex. However, there were marked differences in their connections with
other cortical areas. While 6DR received consistent inputs from prefrontal
cortex, area 6DC received few such connections. Conversely, 6DC, but not 6DR,
received major projections from the primary motor and somatosensory areas.
Projections from the anterior cingulate cortex preferentially targeted 6DC, while
the posterior cingulate and adjacent medial wall areas preferentially targeted
6DR. Projections from the medial parietal area PE to 6DC were particularly dense,
while intraparietal areas (especially the putative homolog of LIP) were more
strongly labeled after 6DR injections. Finally, 6DC and 6DR were distinct in
terms of inputs from the ventral parietal cortex: projections to 6DR originated
preferentially from caudal areas (PG and OPt), while 6DC received input primarily
from rostral areas (PF and PFG). Differences in connections suggest that area 6DR
includes rostral and caudal subdivisions, with the former also involved in
oculomotor control. These results suggest that area 6DC is more directly involved
in the preparation and execution of motor acts, while area 6DR integrates sensory
and internally driven inputs for the planning of goal-directed actions. They also
provide strong evidence of a homologous organization of the dorsal premotor
cortex in New and Old World monkeys.

Â© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23633 
PMID: 24888737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

