

1402. Cereb Cortex. 2015 Sep;25(9):3064-76. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhu102. Epub 2014 May
30.

Role of Central Serotonin in Anticipation of Rewarding and Punishing Outcomes:
Effects of Selective Amygdala or Orbitofrontal 5-HT Depletion.

Rygula R(1), Clarke HF(2), Cardinal RN(3), Cockcroft GJ(4), Xia J(4), Dalley
JW(4), Robbins TW(4), Roberts AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK
Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK Current Address: Affective Cognitive Neuroscience
Laboratory, Department of Behavioral Neurobiology and Drug Development, Institute
of Pharmacology Polish Academy of Sciences, ul Smetna 12, 31-343 Krakow, Poland.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.
(3)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge, School
of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK Liaison Psychiatry Service,
Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust, Box 190, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK
Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.

Understanding the role of serotonin (or 5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in aversive
processing has been hampered by the contradictory findings, across studies, of
increased sensitivity to punishment in terms of subsequent response choice but
decreased sensitivity to punishment-induced response suppression following gross 
depletion of central 5-HT. To address this apparent discrepancy, the present
study determined whether both effects could be found in the same animals by
performing localized 5-HT depletions in the amygdala or orbitofrontal cortex
(OFC) of a New World monkey, the common marmoset. 5-HT depletion in the amygdala 
impaired response choice on a probabilistic visual discrimination task by
increasing the effectiveness of misleading, or false, punishment and reward, and 
decreased response suppression in a variable interval test of punishment
sensitivity that employed the same reward and punisher. 5-HT depletion in the OFC
also disrupted probabilistic discrimination learning and decreased response
suppression. Computational modeling of behavior on the discrimination task showed
that the lesions reduced reinforcement sensitivity. A novel, unitary account of
the findings in terms of the causal role of 5-HT in the anticipation of both
negative and positive motivational outcomes is proposed and discussed in relation
to current theories of 5-HT function and our understanding of mood and anxiety
disorders.

Â© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhu102 
PMCID: PMC4537445
PMID: 24879752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

