

1406. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2014 Aug;64(Pt 8):2819-2827. doi:
10.1099/ijs.0.056937-0. Epub 2014 May 27.

Bifidobacterium aesculapii sp. nov., from the faeces of the baby common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Modesto M(1), Michelini S(1), Stefanini I(1), Ferrara A(2), Tacconi S(2), Biavati
B(1), Mattarelli P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Bologna, Italy.
(2)Aptuit srl, Verona, Italy.

Six Gram-positive-staining, microaerophilic, non-spore-forming,
fructose-6-phosphate phosphoketolase-positive bacterial strains with a peculiar
morphology were isolated from faecal samples of baby common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). Cells of these strains showed a morphology not reported previously for 
a bifidobacterial species, which resembled a coiled snake, always coiled or ring 
shaped or forming a 'Y' shape. Strains MRM 3/1(T) and MRM 4/2 were chosen as
representative strains and characterized further. The bacteria utilized a wide
range of carbohydrates and produced urease. Glucose was fermented to acetate and 
lactate. Strain MRM 3/1(T) showed a peptidoglycan type unique among members of
the genus Bifidobacterium. The DNA base composition was 64.7 mol% G+C.
Almost-complete 16S rRNA, hsp60, clpC and rpoB gene sequences were obtained and
phylogenetic relationships were determined. Comparative analysis of 16S rRNA gene
sequences showed that strains MRM 3/1(T) and MRM 4/2 had the highest similarities
to Bifidobacterium scardovii DSM 13734(T) (94.6%) and Bifidobacterium
stellenboschense DSM 23968(T) (94.5%). Analysis of hsp60 showed that both strains
were closely related to B. stellenboschense DSM 23968(T) (97.5% similarity);
however, despite this high degree of similarity, our isolates could be
distinguished from B. stellenboschense DSM 23968(T) by low levels of DNA-DNA
relatedness (30.4% with MRM 3/1(T)). Strains MRM 3/1(T) and MRM 4/2 were located 
in an actinobacterial cluster and were more closely related to the genus
Bifidobacterium than to other genera in the family Bifidobacteriaceae. On the
basis of these results, strains MRM 3/1(T) and MRM 4/2 represent a novel species 
within the genus Bifidobacterium, for which the name Bifidobacterium aesculapii
sp. nov. is proposed; the type strain is MRM 3/1(T) ( = DSM 26737(T) = JCM
18761(T)).

© 2014 IUMS.

DOI: 10.1099/ijs.0.056937-0 
PMID: 24867172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

