

1408. Int Immunol. 2014 Nov;26(11):597-606. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxu053. Epub 2014 May
24.

NKG2D functions as an activating receptor on natural killer cells in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Watanabe M(1), Kudo Y(1), Kawano M(1), Nakayama M(1), Nakamura K(1), Kameda M(1),
Ebara M(1), Sato T(1), Nakamura M(1), Omine K(1), Kametani Y(2), Suzuki R(3),
Ogasawara K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer,
Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8575, Japan.
(2)Department of Immunology, Tokai University School of Medicine, Isehara
259-1193, Japan.
(3)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Sagamihara 252-0315, Japan.
(4)Department of Immunobiology, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer,
Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8575, Japan ogasawara@idac.tohoku.ac.jp.

The natural killer group 2 membrane D (NKG2D) receptor is an NK-activating
receptor that plays an important role in host defense against tumors and viral
infections. Although the marmoset is an important and reliable animal model,
especially for the study of human-specific viral infections, functional
characterization of NKG2D on marmoset NK cells has not previously been conducted.
In the present study, we investigated a subpopulation of marmoset NK cells that
express NKG2D and exhibit cytolytic potential. On the basis of their CD16 and
CD56 expression patterns, marmoset NK cells can be classified into three
subpopulations: CD16(+) CD56(-), CD16(-) CD56(+) and CD16(-) CD56(-) cells. NKG2D
expression on marmoset CD16(+) CD56(-) and CD16(-) CD56(+) splenocytes was
confirmed using an NKG2D ligand composed of an MHC class I chain-related molecule
A (MICA)-Fc fusion protein. When marmoset splenocytes were cultured with IL-2 for
4 days, NKG2D expression was retained on CD16(+) CD56(-) and CD16(-) CD56(+). In 
addition, CD16(+) CD56(+) cells within the marmoset NK population appeared which 
expressed NKG2D after IL-2 stimulation. IL-2-activated marmoset NK cells showed
strong cytolytic activity against K562 target cells and target cells stably
expressing MICA. Further, the cytolytic activity of marmoset splenocytes was
significantly reduced after addition of MICA-Fc fusion protein. Thus, NKG2D
functions as an activating receptor on marmoset NK cells that possesses cytotoxic
potential, and phenotypic profiles of marmoset NK cell subpopulations are similar
to those seen in humans.

Â© The Japanese Society for Immunology. 2014. All rights reserved. For
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxu053 
PMID: 24860119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

