

141. Am J Primatol. 2021 Nov;83(11):e23254. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23254. Epub 2021 May 7.

Studies of aging nonhuman primates illuminate the etiology of early-stage
Alzheimer's-like neuropathology: An evolutionary perspective.

Arnsten AFT(1), Datta D(1), Preuss TM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Yale Medical School, New Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(2)Division of Neuropharmacology and Neurologic Diseases, Department of
Pathology, Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta,
Georgia, USA.

Tau pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) preferentially afflicts the limbic and 
recently enlarged association cortices, causing a progression of mnemonic and
cognitive deficits. Although genetic mouse models have helped reveal mechanisms
underlying the rare, autosomal-dominant forms of AD, the etiology of the more
common, sporadic form of AD remains unknown, and is challenging to study in mice 
due to their limited association cortex and lifespan. It is also difficult to
study in human brains, as early-stage tau phosphorylation can degrade postmortem.
In contrast, rhesus monkeys have extensive association cortices, are long-lived, 
and can undergo perfusion fixation to capture early-stage tau phosphorylation in 
situ. Most importantly, rhesus monkeys naturally develop amyloid plaques,
neurofibrillary tangles comprised of hyperphosphorylated tau, synaptic loss, and 
cognitive deficits with advancing age, and thus can be used to identify the early
molecular events that initiate and propel neuropathology in the aging association
cortices. Studies to date suggest that the particular molecular signaling events 
needed for higher cognition-for example, high levels of calcium to maintain
persistent neuronal firing- lead to tau phosphorylation and inflammation when
dysregulated with advancing age. The expression of NMDAR-NR2B (GluN2B)-the
subunit that fluxes high levels of calcium-increases over the cortical hierarchy 
and with the expansion of association cortex in primate evolution, consistent
with patterns of tau pathology. In the rhesus monkey dorsolateral prefrontal
cortex, spines contain NMDAR-NR2B and the molecular machinery to magnify internal
calcium release near the synapse, as well as phosphodiesterases, mGluR3, and
calbindin to regulate calcium signaling. Loss of regulation with inflammation
and/or aging appears to be a key factor in initiating tau pathology. The vast
expansion in the numbers of these synapses over primate evolution is consistent
with the degree of tau pathology seen across species: marmoset < rhesus
monkey < chimpanzee < human, culminating in the vast neurodegeneration seen in
humans with AD.

© 2021 The Authors. American Journal of Primatology Published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23254 
PMCID: PMC8550995
PMID: 33960505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

