

1410. Biol Lett. 2014 May;10(5):20140058. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0058.

Marmoset monkeys evaluate third-party reciprocity.

Kawai N(1), Yasue M(2), Banno T(3), Ichinohe N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan
kawai@is.nagoya-u.ac.jp.
(2)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan
Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Many non-human primates have been observed to reciprocate and to understand
reciprocity in one-to-one social exchanges. A recent study demonstrated that
capuchin monkeys are sensitive to both third-party reciprocity and violation of
reciprocity; however, whether this sensitivity is a function of general
intelligence, evidenced by their larger brain size relative to other primates,
remains unclear. We hypothesized that highly pro-social primates, even with a
relatively smaller brain, would be sensitive to others' reciprocity. Here, we
show that common marmosets discriminated between human actors who reciprocated in
social exchanges with others and those who did not. Monkeys accepted rewards less
frequently from non-reciprocators than they did from reciprocators when the
non-reciprocators had retained all food items, but they accepted rewards from
both actors equally when they had observed reciprocal exchange between the
actors. These results suggest that mechanisms to detect unfair reciprocity in
third-party social exchanges do not require domain-general higher cognitive
ability based on proportionally larger brains, but rather emerge from the
cooperative and pro-social tendencies of species, and thereby suggest this
ability evolved in multiple primate lineages.

Â© 2014 The Author(s) Published by the Royal Society. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2014.0058 
PMCID: PMC4046368
PMID: 24850892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

