

1413. Am J Primatol. 2014 Nov;76(11):1062-73. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22293. Epub 2014 May 8.

Long-term data on reproductive output and longevity in captive female common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ash H(1), Buchanan-Smith HM.

Author information: 
(1)Behaviour and Evolution Research Group and Scottish Primate Research Group,
Psychology, School of Natural Sciences, University of Stirling, Stirling,
Scotland.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is widely used in biomedical research,
with many housed for breeding purposes world-wide. Significant variation in
reproductive output among females has been found compared to other anthropoid
primates. The present study explores this reproductive variation, focusing on
potential predictors of dam longevity and litter size, as well as changes over
time. Back-record analysis was conducted, yielding litter information and
reproductive summaries of 360 dams housed at three UK marmoset colonies over four
decades (1970s-2000s). Results revealed differences among the colonies, as well
as within colonies over decades, suggesting environment may play an important
role. Cox proportional hazards regression analyses revealed significant effects
of mean litter size and yearly production on dam longevity. Decade, mean
inter-birth interval and mean dam weight were found to be significant factors
explaining dam longevity when looking at colonies individually. The most commonly
recorded cause of death was "poor condition." Linear regression models found that
no reproductive variable was useful in explaining mean litter size, except dam
weight at conception, data which was only consistently recorded at one colony.
While triplets were common at all three colonies, these larger litters were
consistently associated with higher infant mortality, despite human intervention 
to improve survival. This study increases our understanding of marmoset
reproduction, and possible improvements to practical aspects of colony management
to enhance survival and welfare are discussed.

Â© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22293 
PMID: 24809989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

