

1415. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2014 Jul;350(1):153-63. doi: 10.1124/jpet.114.214155. Epub 
2014 Apr 30.

GSK356278, a potent, selective, brain-penetrant phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor
that demonstrates anxiolytic and cognition-enhancing effects without inducing
side effects in preclinical species.

Rutter AR(1), Poffe A(2), Cavallini P(2), Davis TG(2), Schneck J(2), Negri M(2), 
Vicentini E(2), Montanari D(2), Arban R(2), Gray FA(2), Davies CH(2), Wren PB(2).

Author information: 
(1)GlaxoSmithKline, Discovery Medicine, Stevenage, Herts, United Kingdom (F.A.G.,
P.B.W.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neural Pathways Discovery Performance Unit, Biopolis,
Singapore (A.R.R., C.H.D.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neurosciences Centre of Excellence
for Drug Discovery, Verona, Italy (A.P., P.C., M.N., E.V., D.M., R.A.);
GlaxoSmithKline, Molecular Discovery Research, Collegeville, Pennsylvania (J.S.);
and GlaxoSmithKline, Respiratory Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania (T.G.D.) Richard.a.rutter@gsk.com.
(2)GlaxoSmithKline, Discovery Medicine, Stevenage, Herts, United Kingdom (F.A.G.,
P.B.W.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neural Pathways Discovery Performance Unit, Biopolis,
Singapore (A.R.R., C.H.D.); GlaxoSmithKline, Neurosciences Centre of Excellence
for Drug Discovery, Verona, Italy (A.P., P.C., M.N., E.V., D.M., R.A.);
GlaxoSmithKline, Molecular Discovery Research, Collegeville, Pennsylvania (J.S.);
and GlaxoSmithKline, Respiratory Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, King of
Prussia, Pennsylvania (T.G.D.).

Small molecule phosphodiesterase (PDE) 4 inhibitors have long been known to show 
therapeutic benefit in various preclinical models of psychiatric and neurologic
diseases because of their ability to elevate cAMP in various cell types of the
central nervous system. Despite the registration of the first PDE4 inhibitor,
roflumilast, for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, the
therapeutic potential of PDE4 inhibitors in neurologic diseases has never been
fulfilled in the clinic due to severe dose-limiting side effects such as nausea
and vomiting. In this study, we describe the detailed pharmacological
characterization of GSK356278
[5-(5-((2,4-dimethylthiazol-5-yl)methyl)-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl)-1-ethyl-N-(tetrahy
dro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridin-4-amine], a potent, selective, and
brain-penetrant PDE4 inhibitor that shows a superior therapeutic index to both
rolipram and roflumilast in various preclinical species and has potential for
further development in the clinic for the treatment of psychiatric and neurologic
diseases. GSK356278 inhibited PDE4B enzyme activity with a pIC50 of 8.8 and bound
to the high-affinity rolipram binding site with a pIC50 of 8.6. In preclinical
models, the therapeutic index as defined in a rodent lung inflammation model
versus rat pica feeding was >150 compared with 0.5 and 6.4 for rolipram and
roflumilast, respectively. In a model of anxiety in common marmosets, the
therapeutic index for GSK356278 was >10 versus <1 for rolipram. We also
demonstrate that GSK356278 enhances performance in a model of executive function 
in cynomolgus macaques with no adverse effects, a therapeutic profile that
supports further evaluation of GSK356278 in a clinical setting.

Copyright Â© 2014 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.114.214155 
PMID: 24784567  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

