

1419. Neurosci Res. 2014 Jun;83:33-42. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.04.002. Epub 2014 Apr
21.

Motor learning in common marmosets: vestibulo-ocular reflex adaptation and its
sensitivity to inhibitors of Purkinje cell long-term depression.

Anzai M(1), Nagao S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Motor Learning Control, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Hirosawa
2-1, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Motor Learning Control, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Hirosawa
2-1, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address: nagaos@brain.riken.jp.

Adaptation of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex (HVOR) provides an
experimental model for cerebellum-dependent motor learning. We developed an eye
movement measuring system and a paradigm for induction of HVOR adaptation for the
common marmoset. The HVOR gain in dark measured by 10° (peak-to-peak amplitude)
and 0.11-0.5Hz turntable oscillation was around unity. The gain-up and gain-down 
HVOR adaptation was induced by 1h of sustained out-of-phase and in-phase
10°-0.33Hz combined turntable-screen oscillation in the light, respectively. To
examine the role of long-term depression (LTD) of parallel fiber-Purkinje cell
synapses, we intraperitonially applied T-588 or nimesulide, which block the
induction of LTD in vitro or in vivo preparations, 1h before the test of HVOR
adaptation. T-588 (3 and 5mg/kg body weight) did not affect nonadapted HVOR
gains, and impaired both gain-up and gain-down HVOR adaptation. Nimesulide (3 and
6mg/kg) did not affect nonadapted HVOR gains, and impaired gain-up HVOR
adaptation dose-dependently; however, it very little affected gain-down HVOR
adaptation. These findings are consistent with the results of our study of
nimesulide on the adaptation of horizontal optokinetic response in mice (Le et
al., 2010), and support the view that LTD underlies HVOR adaptation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2014.04.002 
PMID: 24768746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

