

1420. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 May 6;111(18):E1924-32. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1320735111. Epub 2014 Apr 21.

Fetal programming of adult Leydig cell function by androgenic effects on
stem/progenitor cells.

Kilcoyne KR(1), Smith LB, Atanassova N, Macpherson S, McKinnell C, van den
Driesche S, Jobling MS, Chambers TJ, De Gendt K, Verhoeven G, O'Hara L, Platts S,
Renato de Franca L, Lara NL, Anderson RA, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Centre for Reproductive Health, The Queen's Medical
Research Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Asian J Androl. 2015 Mar-Apr;17(2):219-20.

Fetal growth plays a role in programming of adult cardiometabolic disorders,
which in men, are associated with lowered testosterone levels. Fetal growth and
fetal androgen exposure can also predetermine testosterone levels in men,
although how is unknown, because the adult Leydig cells (ALCs) that produce
testosterone do not differentiate until puberty. To explain this conundrum, we
hypothesized that stem cells for ALCs must be present in the fetal testis and
might be susceptible to programming by fetal androgen exposure during
masculinization. To address this hypothesis, we used ALC ablation/regeneration to
identify that, in rats, ALCs derive from stem/progenitor cells that express
chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor II. These stem cells are
abundant in the fetal testis of humans and rodents, and lineage tracing in mice
shows that they develop into ALCs. The stem cells also express androgen receptors
(ARs). Reduction in fetal androgen action through AR KO in mice or dibutyl
phthalate (DBP) -induced reduction in intratesticular testosterone in rats
reduced ALC stem cell number by âˆ¼40% at birth to adulthood and induced
compensated ALC failure (low/normal testosterone and elevated luteinizing
hormone). In DBP-exposed males, this failure was probably explained by reduced
testicular steroidogenic acute regulatory protein expression, which is associated
with increased histone methylation (H3K27me3) in the proximal promoter.
Accordingly, ALCs and ALC stem cells immunoexpressed increased H3K27me3, a change
that was also evident in ALC stem cells in fetal testes. These studies highlight 
how a key component of male reproductive development can fundamentally reprogram 
adult hormone production (through an epigenetic change), which might affect
lifetime disease risk.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1320735111 
PMCID: PMC4020050
PMID: 24753613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

