

1423. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2014 Apr 17;8(4):e2797. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0002797.
eCollection 2014 Apr.

Experimental infection of rhesus macaques and common marmosets with a European
strain of West Nile virus.

Verstrepen BE(1), Fagrouch Z(1), van Heteren M(1), Buitendijk H(1), Haaksma T(2),
Beenhakker N(1), Pal√π G(3), Richner JM(4), Diamond MS(4), Bogers WM(1), Barzon
L(3), Chabierski S(5), Ulbert S(5), Kondova I(2), Verschoor EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.
(2)Animal Science Department, Division of Pathology and Microbiology, Biomedical 
Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.
(4)Departments of Medicine, Molecular Microbiology, Pathology & Immunology,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States of
America.
(5)Department of Immunology, Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and
Immunology, Leipzig, Germany.

West Nile virus (WNV) is a mosquito-borne flavivirus that infects humans and
other mammals. In some cases WNV causes severe neurological disease. During
recent years, outbreaks of WNV are increasing in worldwide distribution and novel
genetic variants of the virus have been detected. Although a substantial amount
of data exists on WNV infections in rodent models, little is known about early
events during WNV infection in primates, including humans. To gain a deeper
understanding of this process, we performed experimental infections of rhesus
macaques and common marmosets with a virulent European WNV strain (WNV-Ita09) and
monitored virological, hematological, and biochemical parameters. WNV-Ita09
productively infected both monkey species, with higher replication and wider
tissue distribution in common marmosets compared to rhesus macaques. The animals 
in this study however, did not develop clinical signs of WNV disease, nor showed 
substantial deviations in clinical laboratory parameters. In both species, the
virus induced a rapid CD56dimCD16bright natural killer response, followed by IgM 
and IgG antibody responses. The results of this study show that healthy rhesus
macaques and common marmosets are promising animal models to study WNV-Ita09
infection. Both models may be particularly of use to evaluate potential vaccine
candidates or to investigate WNV pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0002797 
PMCID: PMC3990483
PMID: 24743302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

