

1429. J Pharmacol Sci. 2014;124(4):480-5. Epub 2014 Mar 28.

Adenosine A₂A-receptor antagonist istradefylline enhances the motor response of
L-DOPA without worsening dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Uchida S(1), Tashiro T, Kawai-Uchida M, Mori A, Jenner P, Kanda T.

Author information: 
(1)Development Research Laboratories, Research Division, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co.,
Ltd., Japan.

The adenosine A₂A-receptor antagonist istradefylline decreases OFF time in
patients with Parkinson's disease who are already treated with optimal doses of
dopaminergic medication but can cause an increase in non-troublesome dyskinesia. 
Preclinical experiments have shown that A₂A antagonists are most effective in
potentiating motor function when combined with sub-maximal doses of L-DOPA.
However, the effects of combining istradefylline with sub-optimal L-DOPA
treatment on established dyskinesia have not been studied. We now examine the
effects of acute and repeated administration of istradefylline on dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated common marmosets previously primed to exhibit involuntary movements 
by prior exposure to L-DOPA. In these animals, single dose acute oral
administration of istradefylline (10 mg/kg) enhanced and prolonged the
anti-parkinsonian effects of a sub-optimal dose of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg). The
chronic co-administration of istradefylline (10 mg/kg) with L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg)
for 21 days did not worsen the severity of existing dyskinesia. Rather, the
severity of dyskinesia tended to be reduced over the 21-day treatment period.
These results suggest that istradefylline can be used to potentiate the effects
of sub-optimal doses of L-DOPA in the treatment of Parkinson's disease without
causing or worsening dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.13250fp 
PMID: 24681641  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

