

143. J Comp Neurol. 2021 Sep;529(13):3274-3291. doi: 10.1002/cne.25167. Epub 2021 Jun 
9.

Sexually dimorphic perineuronal nets in the rodent and primate reproductive
circuit.

Ciccarelli A(1), Weijers D(1), Kwan W(2), Warner C(2), Bourne J(2), Gross CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Epigenetics & Neurobiology Unit, EMBL Rome, European Molecular Biology
Laboratory, Rome.
(2)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Perineuronal nets are extracellular glycoprotein structures that have been found 
on some neurons in the central nervous system and that have been shown to
regulate their structural plasticity. Until now work on perineuronal nets has
been focused on their role in cortical structures where they are selectively
expressed on parvalbumin-positive neurons and are reported to restrict the
experience-dependent plasticity of inhibitory afferents. Here, we examined the
expression of perineuronal nets subcortically, showing that they are expressed in
several discrete structures, including nuclei that comprise the brain network
controlling reproductive behaviors (e.g., mounting, lordosis, aggression, and
social defense). In particular, perineuronal nets were found in the posterior
dorsal division of the medial amygdala, the medial preoptic nucleus, the
posterior medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventrolateral
ventromedial hypothalamus and adjacent tuberal nucleus, and the ventral
premammillary nucleus in both the mouse and primate brain. Comparison of
perineuronal nets in male and female mice revealed a significant sexually
dimorphic expression, with expression found prominently on estrogen receptor
expressing neurons in the medial amygdala. These findings suggest that
perineuronal nets may be involved in regulating neural plasticity in the
mammalian reproductive system.

Â© 2021 The Authors. The Journal of Comparative Neurology published by Wiley
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25167 
PMID: 33950531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

