

1431. J Neurophysiol. 2014 Jun 15;111(12):2624-33. doi: 10.1152/jn.00885.2013. Epub
2014 Mar 26.

Alignment of sound localization cues in the nucleus of the brachium of the
inferior colliculus.

Slee SJ(1), Young ED(2).

Author information: 
(1)Oregon Hearing Research Center, Oregon Health and Science University,
Portland, Oregon; and Biomedical Engineering Department, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland slee@ohsu.edu.
(2)Biomedical Engineering Department, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
Maryland.

Accurate sound localization is based on three acoustic cues (interaural time and 
intensity difference and spectral cues from directional filtering by the pinna). 
In natural listening conditions, every spatial position of a sound source
provides a unique combination of these three cues in "natural alignment."
Although neurons in the central nucleus (ICC) of the inferior colliculus (IC) are
sensitive to multiple cues, they do not favor their natural spatial alignment. We
tested for sensitivity to cue alignment in the nucleus of the brachium of the IC 
(BIN) in unanesthetized marmoset monkeys. The BIN receives its predominant
auditory input from ICC and projects to the topographic auditory space map in the
superior colliculus. Sound localization cues measured in each monkey were used to
synthesize broadband stimuli with aligned and misaligned cues; spike responses to
these stimuli were recorded in the BIN. We computed mutual information (MI)
between the set of spike rates and the stimuli containing either aligned or
misaligned cues. The results can be summarized as follows: 1) BIN neurons encode 
more information about auditory space when cues are aligned compared with
misaligned. 2) Significantly more units prefer aligned cues in the BIN than in
ICC. 3) An additive model based on summing the responses to stimuli with the
localization cues varying individually accurately predicts the alignment
preference with all cues varying. Overall, the results suggest that the BIN is
the first site in the ascending mammalian auditory system that is tuned to
natural combinations of sound localization cues.

Copyright Â© 2014 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00885.2013 
PMCID: PMC4044433
PMID: 24671535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

