

1433. Neurology. 2014 Mar 25;82(12):1093-8. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000243.

Redundant dopaminergic activity may enable compensatory axonal sprouting in
Parkinson disease.

Arkadir D(1), Bergman H, Fahn S.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Neurology (D.A., S.F.), Columbia University Medical
Center, New York, NY; and Department of Neurobiology (Physiology) (H.B.), Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem, Israel.

Neurodegenerative diseases become clinically apparent only after a substantial
population of neurons is lost. This raises the possibility of compensatory
mechanisms in the early phase of these diseases. The importance of understanding 
these mechanisms cannot be underestimated because it may guide future
disease-modifying strategies. Because the anatomy and physiology of the
nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathways have been well described, the study of
Parkinson disease can offer insight into these early compensatory mechanisms.
Collateral axonal sprouting of dopaminergic terminals into the denervated
striatum is the most studied compensatory mechanism in animal (almost exclusively
rodent) models of Parkinson disease and is correlated with behavioral recovery
after partial lesions. This sprouting, however, does not respect the normal
anatomy of the original nigrostriatal pathways and leads to aberrant neuronal
networks. We suggest here that the unique physiologic property of the
dopaminergic innervation of the striatum, namely redundancy of information
encoding, is crucial to the efficacy of compensatory axonal sprouting in the
presence of aberrant anatomical connections. Redundant information encoding
results from the similarity of representation of salient and rewarding events by 
many dopaminergic neurons, from the wide axonal field of a single dopaminergic
neuron in the striatum, and from the nonspecific spatial effect of dopamine on
striatal neurons (volume conductance). Finally, we discuss the relevance of these
findings in animal models to human patients with Parkinson disease.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000000243 
PMID: 24663231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

