

1434. FEBS Open Bio. 2014 Feb 21;4:213-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fob.2014.02.007. eCollection
2014.

Analysis of essential pathways for self-renewal in common marmoset embryonic stem
cells.

Nii T(1), Marumoto T(2), Kawano H(1), Yamaguchi S(1), Liao J(1), Okada M(1),
Sasaki E(3), Miura Y(1), Tani K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Medical Institute of
Bioregulation, Kyushu University, 3-1-1, Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, 
Japan.
(2)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Medical Institute of
Bioregulation, Kyushu University, 3-1-1, Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, 
Japan ; Department of Advanced Molecular and Cell Therapy, Kyushu University
Hospital, 3-1-1, Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 216-0001, Japan
; Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo
160-8582, Japan.

Common marmoset (CM) is widely recognized as a useful non-human primate for
disease modeling and preclinical studies. Thus, embryonic stem cells (ESCs)
derived from CM have potential as an appropriate cell source to test human
regenerative medicine using human ESCs. CM ESCs have been established by us and
other groups, and can be cultured in vitro. However, the growth factors and
downstream pathways for self-renewal of CM ESCs are largely unknown. In this
study, we found that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) rather than leukemia
inhibitory factor (LIF) promoted CM ESC self-renewal via the activation of
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) pathway on mouse
embryonic fibroblast (MEF) feeders. Moreover, bFGF and transforming growth factor
β (TGFβ) signaling pathways cooperatively maintained the undifferentiated state
of CM ESCs under feeder-free condition. Our findings may improve the culture
techniques of CM ESCs and facilitate their use as a preclinical experimental
resource for human regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fob.2014.02.007 
PMCID: PMC3958738
PMID: 24649403 

