

1437. J Neurosci. 2014 Mar 12;34(11):3821-5. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4491-13.2014.

Identification of a pathway from the retina to koniocellular layer K1 in the
lateral geniculate nucleus of marmoset.

Percival KA(1), Koizumi A, Masri RA, Buzás P, Martin PR, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, Australian Research
Council Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, and School of Medical Sciences,
The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia, Department of Cell
Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Myodaiji, Okazaki,
444-8585, Japan, Department of Physiological Sciences, School of Life Science,
The Graduate University for Advanced Studies (SOKENDAI), Okazaki 444-8787, Japan,
and Institute of Physiology, Medical School, University of Pécs, 7624 Pécs,
Hungary.

Three well characterized pathways in primate vision (midget-parvocellular,
parasol-magnocellular, bistratified-koniocellular) have been traced from the
first synapse in the retina, through the visual thalamus (lateral geniculate
nucleus, LGN), to the visual cortex. Here we identify a pathway from the first
synapse in the retina to koniocellular layer K1 in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). Particle-mediated gene transfer of an expression plasmid for the
postsynaptic density 95-green fluorescent protein (PSD95-GFP) was used to label
excitatory synapses on retinal ganglion cells and combined with
immunofluorescence to identify the presynaptic bipolar cells. We found that axon 
terminals of one type of diffuse bipolar cell (DB6) provide dominant synaptic
input to the dendrites of narrow thorny ganglion cells. Retrograde tracer
injections into the LGN and photofilling of retinal ganglion cells showed that
narrow thorny cells were preferentially labeled when koniocellular layer K1 was
targeted. Layer K1 contains cells with high sensitivity for rapid movement, and
layer K1 sends projections to association visual areas as well as to primary
visual cortex. We hypothesize that the DB6-narrow thorny-koniocellular pathway
contributes to residual visual functions ("blindsight") that survive injury to
primary visual cortex in adult or early life.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4491-13.2014 
PMCID: PMC6705273
PMID: 24623761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

