

1439. Eur J Neurosci. 2014 May;39(9):1419-28. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12514. Epub 2014 Mar 11.

EphA4 is associated with multiple cell types in the marmoset primary visual
cortex throughout the lifespan.

Goldshmit Y(1), Homman-Ludiye J, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Building 75,
Clayton, Vic., 3800, Australia.

Ephs form the largest family of receptor tyrosine kinases. They interact with the
membrane-bound ligands - ephrins - to control crucial aspects of brain
development. EphA4 is the most prominent member of the family in terms of
versatility and ability to bind most ephrin ligands. EphA4 regulates brain
development by modulating neuronal migration and connectivity. In the present
study, we address the involvement of EphA4 in patterning the primary visual
cortex (V1) of the marmoset monkey by characterizing the cellular expression
profile of EphA4 from late embryonic stages to adulthood. We identified
continuous expression on neurons in the cortical plate and mature neocortical
layers, similar to that described in the mouse, excluding a role for EphA4 in the
formation of borders between visual areas in the marmoset neocortex. In addition 
to neurons, we also report expression of EphA4 on glial populations, including
radial glia and astrocytes. In contrast to what is seen in the mouse, EphA4
expression on astrocytes persists in the adult marmoset V1, including around
blood vessels and in the white matter. Robust expression by glial populations,
which retain neurogenic properties in the postnatal marmoset, indicates that
EphA4 may have acquired additional roles during evolution, with important
implications for the benefits of EphA4-blocking therapies following brain injury.

Â© 2014 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12514 
PMID: 24611983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

