

1448. Am J Primatol. 2014 Mar;76(3):239-48. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22228. Epub 2013 Oct 29.

Behavioral responses to social separation stressor change across development and 
are dynamically related to HPA activity in marmosets.

Taylor JH(1), Mustoe AC, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska-Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska;
Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, Omaha, Nebraska.

Psychosocial stressors activate two distinct stress-response systems, a central, 
behavioral response, and a peripheral, endocrine response. Both behavioral and
endocrine responses to stressors are subject to individual and developmental
variables, but it is not known whether stressor induced behaviors are stable
across development, and how they correspond with changes in the endocrine
component of the stress response. We characterized the development and stability 
of behavioral responses to a mild psychosocial stressor in marmosets (Callithrix 
geoffroyi), and assessed the degree to which the behavioral and endocrine
stress-response systems were co-activated. The behavioral response to stressors
was stable within individuals, but only some stressor-induced behaviors changed
as the monkeys developed. Overall, there was more variability in the development 
of behavioral responses compared to stress-induced endocrine profiles found
previously [French et al., 2012. Horm Behav 61:196-203]. In young marmosets, only
increased alarm calling was correlated with increased cortisol reactivity, and in
older marmosets increased cage manipulations and motor activity were associated
with poorer post-stressor cortisol regulation. Because these relationships were
so few, we conclude that while the behavioral and endocrine systems follow a
similar developmental trajectory, each system maintains a level of independence. 
Furthermore, the relationship between stressor-induced behaviors and HPA activity
changes across development.

Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22228 
PMCID: PMC5375030
PMID: 24532179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

