

145. Front Syst Neurosci. 2021 Apr 15;15:645308. doi: 10.3389/fnsys.2021.645308.
eCollection 2021.

Motility Profile of Captive-Bred Marmosets Revealed by a Long-Term In-Cage
Monitoring System.

Koizumi M(1), Nogami N(1), Owari K(1), Kawanobe A(1), Nakatani T(1), Seki K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

A quantitative evaluation of motility is crucial for studies employing
experimental animals. Here, we describe the development of an in-cage motility
monitoring method for new world monkeys using off-the-shelf components, and
demonstrate its capability for long-term operation (e.g., a year). Based on this 
novel system, we characterized the motility of the common marmoset over different
time scales (seconds, hours, days, and weeks). Monitoring of seven young animals 
belonging to two different age groups (sub-adult and young-adult) over a 231-day 
period revealed: (1) strictly diurnal activity (97.3% of movement during
daytime), (2) short-cycle (∼20 s) transition in activity, and (3) bimodal diurnal
activity including a "siesta" break. Additionally, while the mean duration of
short-cycle activity, net daily activity, and diurnal activity changed over the
course of development, 24-h periodicity remained constant. Finally, the method
allowed for detection of progressive motility deterioration in a transgenic
marmoset. Motility measurement offers a convenient way to characterize
developmental and pathological changes in animals, as well as an economical and
labor-free means for long-term evaluation in a wide range of basic and
translational studies.

Copyright © 2021 Koizumi, Nogami, Owari, Kawanobe, Nakatani and Seki.

DOI: 10.3389/fnsys.2021.645308 
PMCID: PMC8081884
PMID: 33935661 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

