

1450. Cancer Sci. 2014 Apr;105(4):402-8. doi: 10.1111/cas.12367. Epub 2014 Apr 5.

Characterization of common marmoset dysgerminoma-like tumor induced by the
lentiviral expression of reprogramming factors.

Yamaguchi S(1), Marumoto T, Nii T, Kawano H, Liao J, Nagai Y, Okada M, Takahashi 
A, Inoue H, Sasaki E, Fujii H, Okano S, Ebise H, Sato T, Suyama M, Okano H, Miura
Y, Tani K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Clinical Genetics, Molecular and Clinical Genetics, 
Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

Recent generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPSCs) has made a significant
impact on the field of human regenerative medicine. Prior to the clinical
application of iPSCs, testing of their safety and usefulness must be carried out 
using reliable animal models of various diseases. In order to generate iPSCs from
common marmoset (CM; Callithrix jacchus), one of the most useful experimental
animals, we have lentivirally transduced reprogramming factors, including POU5F1 
(also known as OCT3/4), SOX2, KLF4, and c-MYC into CM fibroblasts. The cells
formed round colonies expressing embryonic stem cell markers, however, they
showed an abnormal karyotype denoted as 46, X, del(4q), +mar, and formed human
dysgerminoma-like tumors in SCID mice, indicating that the transduction of
reprogramming factors caused unexpected tumorigenesis of CM cells. Moreover, CM
dysgerminoma-like tumors were highly sensitive to DNA-damaging agents,
irradiation, and fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor, and their growth
was dependent on c-MYC expression. These results indicate that DNA-damaging
agents, irradiation, fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor, and
c-MYC-targeted therapies might represent effective treatment strategies for
unexpected tumors in patients receiving iPSC-based therapy.

Â© 2014 The Authors. Cancer Science published by Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd on 
behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.12367 
PMCID: PMC4317795
PMID: 24521492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

