

1453. Folia Histochem Cytobiol. 2013;51(4):292-9. doi: 10.5603/FHC.2013.0040.

Characterization of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) bone marrow-derived
mesenchymal stem cells.

Kanda A, Sotomaru Y(1), Nobukiyo A, Yamaoka E, Hiyama E.

Author information: 
(1)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, Hiroshima, Japan. yusuke@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) could be useful for regenerative medicine because
they can beharvested easily from the bone marrow of living donors and the cells
can be differentiated into adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic lineages in
vitro. To apply MSCs for the medical treatment of human diseases as regenerative 
medicine, detailed experimental characterization of the cells is required.
Recently, a New World primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), has been
widely used as a new human disease model because of its ease of handling and
breeding. Although common marmoset MSCs have been established and will be used in
preclinical studies of regenerative medicine, the characteristics of these cells 
remain unclear. Aiming to characterize common marmoset MSCs further, we harvested
common marmoset bone marrow-derived cells (cmBMDCs) from the femurs of newborn
males. We revealed that the morphology of the cells was similar to common
marmoset fibroblasts, and extracellular matrix components, such as gelatin and
fibronectin, were effective for their proliferation and formation of
colony-forming unit fibroblasts. Furthermore, we were able to differentiate
cmBMDCs into adipocytes, osteocytes, and chondrocytes in vitro, and they
expressed the MSCmarkers CD44, CD73, CD90, and CD105, but their expression
decreased with increasing passage number. The data demonstrate that cmBMDCs
exhibit characteristics of MSCs and thus it would be beneficial to use these
cells in preclinical studies.

DOI: 10.5603/FHC.2013.0040 
PMID: 24497134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

