

1454. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2014 Feb 14;444(3):302-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.01.024. Epub 2014 Jan 30.

Developmental expression profiles of axon guidance signaling and the immune
system in the marmoset cortex: potential molecular mechanisms of pruning of
dendritic spines during primate synapse formation in late infancy and prepuberty 
(I).

Sasaki T(1), Oga T(2), Nakagaki K(1), Sakai K(1), Sumida K(3), Hoshino K(4),
Miyawaki I(4), Saito K(3), Suto F(1), Ichinohe N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan; Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University,
Toyonaka, Osaka 560-8531, Japan.
(3)Environmental Health Science Laboratory, Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-8558, Japan.
(4)Preclinical Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-0022, Japan.
(5)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan. Electronic address: nichino@ncnp.go.jp.

The synapse number and the related dendritic spine number in the cerebral cortex 
of primates shows a rapid increase after birth. Depending on the brain region and
species, the number of synapses reaches a peak before adulthood, and pruning
takes place after this peak (overshoot-type synaptic formation). Human mental
disorders, such as autism and schizophrenia, are hypothesized to be a result of
either too weak or excessive pruning after the peak is reached. Thus, it is
important to study the molecular mechanisms underlying overshoot-type synaptic
formation, particularly the pruning phase. To examine the molecular mechanisms,
we used common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Microarray analysis of the
marmoset cortex was performed in the ventrolateral prefrontal, inferior temporal,
and primary visual cortices, where changes in the number of dendritic spines have
been observed. The spine number of all the brain regions above showed a peak at 3
months (3 M) after birth and gradually decreased (e.g., at 6 M and in adults). In
this study, we focused on genes that showed differential expression between ages 
of 3 M and 6 M and on the differences whose fold change (FC) was greater than
1.2. The selected genes were subjected to canonical pathway analysis, and in this
study, we describe axon guidance signaling, which had high plausibility. The
results showed a large number of genes belonging to subsystems within the axon
guidance signaling pathway, macrophages/immune system, glutamate system, and
others. We divided the data and discussion of these results into 2 papers, and
this is the first paper, which deals with the axon guidance signaling and
macrophage/immune system. Other systems will be described in the next paper. Many
components of subsystems within the axon guidance signaling underwent changes in 
gene expression from 3 M to 6 M so that the synapse/dendritic spine number would 
decrease at 6 M. Thus, axon guidance signaling probably contributes to the
decrease in synapse/dendritic spine number at 6 M, the phenomenon that fits the
overshoot-type synaptic formation in primates. Microglial activity (evaluated by 
quantifying AIF1 expression) and gene expression of molecules that modulate
microglia, decreased at 6 M, just like the synapse/dendritic spine number. Thus, 
although microglial activity is believed to be related to phagocytosis of
synapses/dendritic spines, microglial activity alone cannot explain how pruning
was accelerated in the pruning phase. On the other hand, expression of molecules 
that tag synapses/dendritic spines as a target of phagocytosis by microglia
(e.g., complement components) increased at 6 M, suggesting that these tagging
proteins may be involved in the acceleration of pruning during the pruning phase.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.01.024 
PMID: 24485715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

