

1456. J Neurosci. 2014 Jan 22;34(4):1183-94. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3899-13.2014.

Active vision in marmosets: a model system for visual neuroscience.

Mitchell JF(1), Reynolds JH, Miller CT.

Author information: 
(1)Systems Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037-1099 and Department of Psychology and Neurosciences
Graduate Program, The University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093-0109.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small-bodied New World primate,
offers several advantages to complement vision research in larger primates.
Studies in the anesthetized marmoset have detailed the anatomy and physiology of 
their visual system (Rosa et al., 2009) while studies of auditory and vocal
processing have established their utility for awake and behaving
neurophysiological investigations (Lu et al., 2001a,b; Eliades and Wang, 2008a,b;
Osmanski and Wang, 2011; Remington et al., 2012). However, a critical unknown is 
whether marmosets can perform visual tasks under head restraint. This has been
essential for studies in macaques, enabling both accurate eye tracking and head
stabilization for neurophysiology. In one set of experiments we compared the free
viewing behavior of head-fixed marmosets to that of macaques, and found that
their saccadic behavior is comparable across a number of saccade metrics and that
saccades target similar regions of interest including faces. In a second set of
experiments we applied behavioral conditioning techniques to determine whether
the marmoset could control fixation for liquid reward. Two marmosets could fixate
a central point and ignore peripheral flashing stimuli, as needed for receptive
field mapping. Both marmosets also performed an orientation discrimination task, 
exhibiting a saturating psychometric function with reliable performance and
shorter reaction times for easier discriminations. These data suggest that the
marmoset is a viable model for studies of active vision and its underlying neural
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3899-13.2014 
PMCID: PMC3898283
PMID: 24453311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

