

1459. Brain Res. 2014 Mar 6;1550:27-35. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2014.01.009. Epub 2014 
Jan 17.

Cannabinoid type-1 receptor ligands, alone or in combination with cocaine, affect
vigilance-related behaviors of marmoset monkeys.

Cagni P(1), Melo GC(1), de Jesus AG(1), Barros M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil. Electronic address:
mbarros@unb.br.

Endocannabinoids (eCB) have been functionally linked to cocaine׳s rewarding
effects. However, results differ at the behavioral level, with few reports in
nonhuman primates (NHPs). Here we analyzed whether repeatedly administered
cannabinoid type-1 receptor (CB1r) agonist WIN 55-212,2 (WIN) or antagonist AM
251 (AM) induce effects per se and if concurrent pre-treatments affect
cocaine-induced changes in marmoset behavior. Six groups were tested: WIN-saline;
WIN-cocaine; AM-saline; AM-cocaine; vehicle-cocaine; and vehicle-saline. Subjects
were pre-treated with either WIN (1mg/kg), AM (2mg/kg) or vehicle and then
injected with cocaine (5mg/kg) or saline. Six exposures were held at 48 h
intervals. Behaviors were scored during 15-min in an open-field on days 1 and 6, 
as well as a withdrawal (WD) trial. Marmosets became hypervigilant during cocaine
exposures, which did not condition to the injection context. CB1r activation
induced an equivalent response, whereas AM had no effect on its own. However,
when given as a pre-treatment to cocaine, CB1r blockade enhanced the former׳s
hypervigilance effect and potentially conditioned this response to the exposure
context. Enhancement may have resulted from AM׳s inhibition of eCB-potentiated
cocaine-induced anxiogenesis and/or its action independent of the eCB system, or 
even CB1r-mediated changes in synaptic plasticity involved in cocaine
reward-learning. All effects were independent of motor function. Thus, changes in
CB1r function - alone and in combination with cocaine - affected stereotyped
vigilance-related behaviors in this NHP, further implicating the eCB system in
the neurobiological mechanisms of cocaine addiction.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2014.01.009 
PMID: 24445195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

