

1460. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2014 Feb 14;444(3):307-10. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.01.023. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

Developmental genetic profiles of glutamate receptor system, neuromodulator
system, protector of normal tissue and mitochondria, and reelin in marmoset
cortex: potential molecular mechanisms of pruning phase of spines in primate
synaptic formation process during the end of infancy and prepuberty (II).

Sasaki T(1), Oga T(2), Nakagaki K(1), Sakai K(1), Sumida K(3), Hoshino K(4),
Miyawaki I(4), Saito K(3), Suto F(1), Ichinohe N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan; Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University,
Toyonaka, Osaka 560-8531, Japan.
(3)Environmental Health Science Laboratory, Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-8558, Japan.
(4)Preclinical Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd., 3-1-98
Kasugade-naka, Konohana-ku, Osaka 554-0022, Japan.
(5)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawa-Higashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 
187-8502, Japan. Electronic address: nichino@ncnp.go.jp.

This is the second report of a series paper, which reports molecular mechanisms
underlying the occurrence of pruning spine phase after rapid spinogenesis phase
in neonates and young infant in the primate brain. We performed microarray
analysis between the peak of spine numbers [postnatal 3 months (M)] and spine
pruning (postnatal 6M) in prefrontal, inferior temporal, and primary visual
cortices of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The pruning phase is not
clearly defined in rodents but is in primates including the marmoset. The
differentially expressed genes between 3M and 6M in all three cortical areas were
selected by two-way analysis of variance. The list of selected genes was analyzed
by canonical pathway analysis using "Ingenuity Pathway Analysis of complex omics 
data" (IPA; Ingenuity Systems, Qiagen, Hilden, Germany). In this report, we
discuss these lists of genes for the glutamate receptor system, G-protein-coupled
neuromodulator system, protector of normal tissue and mitochondria, and reelin.
(1) Glutamate is a common neurotransmitter. Its receptors AMPA1, GRIK1, and their
scaffold protein DLG4 decreased as spine numbers decreased. Instead, GRIN3 (NMDA 
receptor) increased, suggesting that strong NMDA excitatory currents may be
required for a single neuron to receive sufficient net synaptic activity in order
to compensate for the decrease in synapse. (2) Most of the G protein-coupled
receptor genes (e.g., ADRA1D, HTR2A, HTR4, and DRD1) in the selected list were
upregulated at 6M. The downstream gene ROCK2 in these receptor systems plays a
role of decreasing synapses, and ROCK2 decreased at 6M. (3) Synaptic phagosytosis
by microglia with complement and other cytokines could cause damage to normal
tissue and mitochondria. SOD1, XIAP, CD46, and CD55, which play protective roles 
in normal tissue and mitochondria, showed higher expression at 6M than at 3M,
suggesting that normal brain tissue is more protected at 6M. (4) Reelin has an
important role in cortical layer formation. In addition, RELN and three different
pathways of reelin were expressed at 6M, suggesting that new synapse formation
decreased at that age. Moreover, if new synapses were formed, their positions
were free and probably dependent on activity.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2014.01.023 
PMID: 24440696  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

