

1462. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2014 Jan;53(1):7-11.

Twinning and survivorship of captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and
cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus).

Ward JM(1), Buslov AM(1), Vallender EJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine Hill
Drive, Southborough, Massachusetts, USA. eric_vallender@hms.harvard.edu.

Here we present the results of a demographic analysis of 25 y (1985 to 2010) of
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus)
records from the New England Primate Research Center. Summaries of longevity and 
survivorship are analyzed by birth-type category (including singletons, twins,
triplets, and quadruplets) and sex. In addition, a brief evolutionary review is
presented. Surrogates of hematopoietic chimerism, twinning, and reproductive
output are explored in a large number of animals to help decipher the potential
effects of chimerism on life history in marmosets and tamarins. In addition to
exploring chimerism through demographic data, multiple-birth frequency and
survivorship are compared between species. New World primates can make ideal
translational models for disease and behavioral research across multiple
disciplines. A better understanding of their reproductive success and
survivorship in captivity helps develop these nonhuman primate models, their role
in aging research, and understanding of their behavioral ecology. This mission is
likely to only increase in its importance to biomedical research due to both the 
sequencing of the marmoset genome and the growing demand for alternatives to Old 
World primate models.


PMCID: PMC3894641
PMID: 24411773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

