

1469. Eur J Neurosci. 2014 Mar;39(6):919-933. doi: 10.1111/ejn.12460. Epub 2013 Dec 26.

Spatially extended forward suppression in primate auditory cortex.

Zhou Y(1), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.

When auditory neurons are stimulated with a pair of sounds, the preceding sound
can inhibit the neural responses to the succeeding sound. This phenomenon,
referred to as 'forward suppression', has been linked to perceptual forward
masking. Previous studies investigating forward suppression typically measured
the interaction between masker and probe sounds using a fixed sound location.
However, in natural environments, interacting sounds often come from different
spatial locations. The present study investigated two questions regarding forward
suppression in the primary auditory cortex and adjacent caudal field of awake
marmoset monkeys. First, what is the relationship between the location of a
masker and its effectiveness in inhibiting neural response to a probe? Second,
does varying the location of a masker change the spectral profile of forward
suppression? We found that a masker can inhibit a neuron's response to a probe
located at a preferred location even when the masker is located at a
non-preferred location of a neuron. This is especially so for neurons in the
caudal field. Furthermore, we found that the strongest forward suppression is
observed when a masker's frequency is close to the best frequency of a neuron,
regardless of the location of the masker. These results reveal, for the first
time, the stability of forward masking in cortical processing of multiple sounds 
presented from different locations. They suggest that forward suppression in the 
auditory cortex is spectrally specific and spatially broad with respect to the
frequency and location of the masker, respectively.

Â© 2013 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.12460 
PMID: 24372934  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

