

147. Sci Rep. 2021 Apr 28;11(1):9138. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-88357-7.

Location and temporal memory of objects declines in aged marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

De Castro V(1)(2), Girard P(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition (CerCo), Toulouse, France.
vanessa.decastro@cnrs.fr.
(2)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS) - UMR 5549, Toulouse,
France. vanessa.decastro@cnrs.fr.
(3)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition (CerCo), Toulouse, France.
pascal.girard@cnrs.fr.
(4)Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale (INSERM), Toulouse, 
France. pascal.girard@cnrs.fr.

Episodic memory decline is an early marker of cognitive aging in human. Although 
controversial in animals and called "episodic-like memory", several models have
been successfully developed, however they rarely focused on ageing. While
marmoset is an emerging primate model in aging science, episodic-like memory has 
never been tested in this species and importantly in aged marmosets. Here, we
examined if the recall of the what-when and what-where building blocks of
episodic-like memory declines in ageing marmosets. We developed a naturalistic
approach using spontaneous exploration of real objects by young and old marmosets
in the home cage. We implemented a three-trial task with 1 week inter-trial
interval. Two different sets of identical objects were presented in sample trials
1 and 2, respectively. For the test trial, two objects from each set were
presented in a former position and two in a new one. We quantified the
exploratory behaviour and calculated discrimination indices in a cohort of 20
marmosets. Young animals presented a preserved memory for combined what-where,
and what-when components of the experiment, which declined with aging. These
findings lead one to expect episodic-like memory deficits in aged marmosets.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-88357-7 
PMCID: PMC8080792
PMID: 33911122  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

