

1472. J Virol. 2014 Feb;88(4):2235-45. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02341-13. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Aerosolized rift valley fever virus causes fatal encephalitis in african green
monkeys and common marmosets.

Hartman AL(1), Powell DS, Bethel LM, Caroline AL, Schmid RJ, Oury T, Reed DS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Vaccine Research, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA.

Rift Valley fever (RVF) is a veterinary and human disease in Africa and the
Middle East. The causative agent, RVF virus (RVFV), can be naturally transmitted 
by mosquito, direct contact, or aerosol. We sought to develop a nonhuman primate 
(NHP) model of severe RVF in humans to better understand the pathogenesis of RVF 
and to use for evaluation of medical countermeasures. NHP from four different
species were exposed to aerosols containing RVFV. Both cynomolgus and rhesus
macaques developed mild fevers after inhalation of RVFV, but no other clinical
signs were noted and no macaque succumbed to RVFV infection. In contrast, both
marmosets and African green monkeys (AGM) proved susceptible to aerosolized RVF
virus. Fever onset was earlier with the marmosets and had a biphasic pattern
similar to what has been reported in humans. Beginning around day 8 to day 10
postexposure, clinical signs consistent with encephalitis were noted in both AGM 
and marmosets; animals of both species succumbed between days 9 and 11
postexposure. Marmosets were susceptible to lower doses of RVFV than AGM.
Histological examination confirmed viral meningoencephalitis in both species.
Hematological analyses indicated a drop in platelet counts in both AGM and
marmosets suggestive of thrombosis, as well as leukocytosis that consisted mostly
of granulocytes. Both AGM and marmosets would serve as useful models of aerosol
infection with RVFV.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02341-13 
PMCID: PMC3911574
PMID: 24335307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

