

1473. J Virol. 2014 Mar;88(6):3058-66. doi: 10.1128/JVI.03035-13. Epub 2013 Dec 11.

Genetic variation in vitro and in vivo of an attenuated Lassa vaccine candidate.

Zapata JC(1), Goicochea M, Nadai Y, Eyzaguirre LM, Carr JK, Tallon LJ, Sadzewicz 
L, Myers G, Fraser CM, Su Q, Djavani M, Lukashevich IS, Salvato MS.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Virology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

The attenuated Lassa vaccine candidate ML29 is a laboratory-produced reassortant 
between Lassa and Mopeia viruses, two Old World arenaviruses that differ by 40%
in nucleic acid sequence. In our previous studies, ML29 elicited sterilizing
immunity against Lassa virus challenge in guinea pigs and marmosets and
virus-specific cell-mediated immunity in both simian immunodeficiency virus
(SIV)-infected and uninfected rhesus macaques. Here, we show that ML29 is stable 
after 12 passages in vitro without losing its plaque morphology or its attenuated
phenotype in suckling mice. Additionally, we used deep sequencing to characterize
the viral population comprising the original stock of ML29, the stock of ML29
after 12 passages in Vero cells, and the ML29 isolates obtained from vaccinated
animals. Twenty-seven isolates bore approximately 77 mutations that exceeded 20% 
of the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) changes at any single locus. Of these
77 mutations, 5 appeared to be host specific, for example, appearing in mice but 
not in primates. None of these mutations were reversions of ML29 to the sequences
of the parental Lassa and Mopeia viruses. The host-specific mutations indicate
viral adaptations to virus-host interactions, and such interactions make
reasonable targets for antiviral approaches. Variants capable of chronic
infection did not emerge from any of the primate infections, even in
immune-deficient animals, indicating that the ML29 reassortant is reasonably
stable in vivo. In conclusion, the preclinical studies of ML29 as a Lassa virus
vaccine candidate have been advanced, showing high levels of protection in
nonhuman primates and acceptable stability both in vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.03035-13 
PMCID: PMC3957910
PMID: 24335292  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

