

1477. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Mar 15;261:26-30. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.11.036. Epub 2013
Dec 1.

Lack of dopamine D4 receptor affinity contributes to the procognitive effect of
lurasidone.

Murai T(1), Nakako T(1), Ikeda K(2), Ikejiri M(1), Ishiyama T(3), Taiji M(4).

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma,
Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.
(2)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma,
Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan. Electronic address: kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.
(3)Innovative Drug Discovery Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, Co., Ltd., 
Osaka, Japan.
(4)Drug Research Division, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

We previously demonstrated among several antipsychotics exhibiting potent
dopamine D2 receptor antagonism that only lurasidone,
(1R,2S,3R,4S)-N-[(1R,2R)-2-[4-(1,2-benzisothiazol-3-yl)-1-piperazinylmethyl]-1-cy
clohexylmethyl]-2,3-bicyclo[2.2.1] heptanedicarboximide hydrochloride, improved
performance in the object retrieval detour (ORD) task by marmosets. The
mechanisms by which only lurasidone causes enhancements in cognitive function
have not yet been established; however, most antipsychotics, except for
lurasidone, have been shown to exhibit potent antagonistic activity against the
dopamine D4 receptor. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the role of
the dopamine D4 receptor on executive function with the selective agonist,
Ro10-5824 and antagonist, L-745,870, and elucidate a possible mechanism for the
procognitive effect of lurasidone. The effects of these drugs were evaluated in
naïve marmosets using the ORD task. Changes in the success rate during the
difficult trial in the task were used to assess the cognitive effect of the
drugs. Ro10-5824 (0.3-3 mg/kg) increased the success rate in the difficult trial,
potentiated the effect of lurasidone, and reversed the cognitive impairment
induced by clozapine. Interestingly, the co-administration of L-745,870 with
lurasidone decreased the success rate in the difficult trial, whereas the single 
administration of L-745,870 had no effect. These results suggest that activation 
of the dopamine D4 receptor may improve executive function, whereas concomitant
blockade of dopamine D4 and D2 receptors may have the opposite effect. In
addition to the other unique binding profiles of other monoamine receptors, the
lack of affinity for the dopamine D4 receptor by lurasidone could also
contribute, at least partly, to its cognitive-enhancing effect.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.11.036 
PMID: 24304719  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

