

1479. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 25;8(11):e81502. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081502.
eCollection 2013.

The origin of the RB1 imprint.

Kanber D(1), Buiting K, Roos C, Gromoll J, Kaya S, Horsthemke B, Lohmann D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Humangenetik, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Essen, Germany.

The human RB1 gene is imprinted due to a differentially methylated CpG island in 
intron 2. This CpG island is part of PPP1R26P1, a truncated retrocopy of PPP1R26,
and serves as a promoter for an alternative RB1 transcript. We show here by in
silico analyses that the parental PPP1R26 gene is present in the analysed members
of Haplorrhini, which comprise Catarrhini (Old World Monkeys, Small apes, Great
Apes and Human), Platyrrhini (New World Monkeys) and tarsier, and Strepsirrhini
(galago). Interestingly, we detected the retrocopy, PPP1R26P1, in all
Anthropoidea (Catarrhini and Platyrrhini) that we studied but not in tarsier or
galago. Additional retrocopies are present in human and chimpanzee on chromosome 
22, but their distinct composition indicates that they are the result of
independent retrotransposition events. Chimpanzee and marmoset have further
retrocopies on chromosome 8 and chromosome 4, respectively. To examine the origin
of the RB1 imprint, we compared the methylation patterns of the parental PPP1R26 
gene and its retrocopies in different primates (human, chimpanzee, orangutan,
rhesus macaque, marmoset and galago). Methylation analysis by deep bisulfite
sequencing showed that PPP1R26 is methylated whereas the retrocopy in RB1 intron 
2 is differentially methylated in all primates studied. All other retrocopies are
fully methylated, except for the additional retrocopy on marmoset chromosome 4,
which is also differentially methylated. Using an informative SNP for the
methylation analysis in marmoset, we could show that the differential methylation
pattern of the retrocopy on chromosome 4 is allele-specific. We conclude that the
epigenetic fate of a PPP1R26 retrocopy after integration depends on the DNA
sequence and selective forces at the integration site.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081502 
PMCID: PMC3839921
PMID: 24282601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

