

1480. Behav Brain Res. 2014 Feb 1;259:336-41. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.11.026. Epub 2013
Nov 23.

Time-of-day effect on a food-induced conditioned place preference task in
monkeys.

Monclaro AV(1), Sampaio AC(1), Ribeiro NB(1), Barros M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil. Electronic address:
mbarros@unb.br.

Time can be an important contextual cue for cognitive performance, with
implications for reward-associated learned behaviors such as (drug and food)
addiction. So, we analyzed: (1) if marmoset monkeys develop a place preference
that is conditioned to previous pairings with a highly-palatable food reward; (2)
if the response is strongest when training and testing times match - time stamp
effect; and (3) if there is an optimal time of the day (morning vs. afternoon)
when this preference occurs - time-of-day effect. Subjects were first habituated 
to a two-compartment conditioned-place-preference (CPP) box. Then, during six
training sessions held either in the morning or afternoon, a mixture of
jellybeans and live mealworms was made available in a specific compartment.
Marmosets were subsequently tested for preferring the food-paired context at the 
circadian time that either matched or was different from that of training.
Compared to baseline levels, only subjects trained and tested in the afternoon
made significantly longer and more frequent visits to the food-paired context and
with a shorter latency to first entry. Thus, highly-palatable food rewards
induced a CPP response. This behavior was exhibited only when training and
testing times overlapped and during a restricted circadian timeframe (afternoon),
consistent with a time-stamp and time-of-day effect, respectively. In this case, 
time may have been an internal circadian contextual cue. Whether due to
circadian-mediated oscillations in memory and/or reward processes, such findings 
may be applied to addiction and other learned behaviors.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.11.026 
PMID: 24280121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

