

1481. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 11;8(11):e78793. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078793.
eCollection 2013.

Characterization of circulating natural killer cells in neotropical primates.

Carville A(1), Evans TI, Reeves RK.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology, New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical
School, Southborough Campus, Southborough, Massachusetts, United States of
America.

Despite extensive use of nonhuman primates as models for infectious diseases and 
reproductive biology, imprecise phenotypic and functional definitions exist for
natural killer (NK) cells. This deficit is particularly significant in the
burgeoning use of small, less expensive New World primate species. Using
polychromatic flow cytometry, we identified peripheral blood NK cells as
CD3-negative and expressing a cluster of cell surface molecules characteristic of
NK cells (i.e., NKG2A, NKp46, NKp30) in three New World primate species - common 
marmosets, cotton-top tamarins, and squirrel monkeys. We then assessed subset
distribution using the classical NK markers, CD56 and CD16. In all species,
similar to Old World primates, only a minor subset of NK cells was CD56+, and the
dominant subset was CD56-CD16+. Interestingly, CD56+ NK cells were primarily
cytokine-secreting cells, whereas CD56-CD16+ NK cells expressed significantly
greater levels of intracellular perforin, suggesting these cells might have
greater potential for cytotoxicity. New World primate species, like Old World
primates, also had a minor CD56-CD16- NK cell subset that has no obvious
counterpart in humans. Herein we present phenotypic profiles of New World primate
NK cell subpopulations that are generally analogous to those found in humans.
This conservation among species should support the further use of these species
for biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078793 
PMCID: PMC3823947
PMID: 24244365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

