

1483. Neuroscience. 2014 Jan 17;257:158-74. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.10.067.
Epub 2013 Nov 9.

Fetal sulcation and gyrification in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
obtained by ex vivo magnetic resonance imaging.

Sawada K(1), Hikishima K(2), Murayama AY(3), Okano HJ(4), Sasaki E(5), Okano
H(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences,
Tsukuba International University, Tsuchiura, Japan. Electronic address:
k-sawada@tius.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
RIKEN Keio University Joint Research Laboratory, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Wako, Japan.
(4)Division of Regenerative Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(5)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(6)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;
RIKEN Keio University Joint Research Laboratory, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Wako, Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

The present study characterized fetal sulcation patterns and gyrification in the 
cerebrum of the New World monkey group, common marmosets, using a 3D T2-weighted 
high-resolution anatomical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) sequence from the
fixed brain at 7-tesla ex vivo. Fetal sulcation in the marmoset cerebrum began to
indent the lateral fissure and hippocampal sulcus in gestational week (GW) 12,
and then the following sulci emerged: the callosal and calcarine sulci on GW 15; 
the superior temporal sulcus on GW 17; and the circular and occipitotemporal
sulci on GW 18. The degree of cortical convolution was evaluated quantitatively
based on 2D MRI slices by the gyrification index (GI) and based on 3D MRI data by
sulcation index (SI). Both the mean GI and SI increased from GW 16, and were
closely correlated with the cortical volume and the cortical surface area during 
fetal periods (their correlation coefficients marked more than 0.95). After
birth, both the mean GI and SI decreased slightly by 2years of age, whereas the
cortical volume and surface area continuously increased. Notably, histological
analysis showed that the outer subventricular zone (oSVZ) in non-sulcal regions
was thicker than that in the presumptive calcarine sulcal region on GW 13,
preceding the infolding of the calcarine sulcus. The present results showed
definite sulcal infolding on the cerebral cortical surface of the marmosets, with
similar pattern and sequence of their emergences to other higher-order primates
such as macaques and humans. Differential expansion of the oSVZ may be involved
in gyral convolution and sulcal infolding in the developing cerebrum.

Copyright Â© 2013 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2013.10.067 
PMID: 24220690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

