

1484. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2015 Jan;82 Pt B:348-57. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.10.017.
Epub 2013 Nov 4.

The systematics and evolution of New World primates - A review.

Schneider H(1), Sampaio I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Estudos Costeiros, Universidade Federal do Pará, Campus de
Bragança, Alameda Leandro Ribeiro s/n, Bragança, Pará, CEP 68600-000, Brazil.
Electronic address: horacio@ufpa.br.
(2)Instituto de Estudos Costeiros, Universidade Federal do Pará, Campus de
Bragança, Alameda Leandro Ribeiro s/n, Bragança, Pará, CEP 68600-000, Brazil.
Electronic address: ira@ufpa.br.

This paper provides an overview of the taxonomy of New World primates from
proposals of the 1980's based on morphology to the great number of studies based 
on molecular data aiming for the elucidation of the phylogeny of New World
monkeys. The innovations of the first molecular phylogeny presented by Schneider 
et al. (1993) positioned Callimico as a sister group of Callithrix and Cebuella; 
Callicebus as a member of the pitheciids; Brachyteles as sister to Lagothrix; and
the night monkeys (Aotus), capuchins (Cebus) and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri) in
the same clade with the small callitrichines. These results were subsequently
confirmed by dozens of subsequent studies using data from DNA sequences. Some
issues difficult to resolve with the phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences, such
as the diversification of the oldest lineages (pitheciids, atelids and cebids),
and the confirmation of Aotus as a member of the Cebinae clade (together with
Cebus/Saimiri), were clarified with new molecular approaches based on the
presence or absence of Alu insertions as well as through the use of
phylogenomics. At this time, all relationships at the intergeneric level had been
deciphered, with the exception of the definition of the sister group of
callitrichines (whether Aotus or Cebus/Saimiri are sister to callitrichines, or
if Aotus, Saimiri and Cebus form a clade together). Future studies should
prioritize the alpha taxonomy of most Neotropical primate groups, and the use of 
phylogenetic and geographic data, combined with reliable estimates of divergence 
times, to clarify the taxonomic status at species and genus level, as well as to 
help understand the evolutionary history of this remarkable and highly
diversified group.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2013.10.017 
PMID: 24201058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

