

1487. Cells Tissues Organs. 2013;198(3):209-20. doi: 10.1159/000355339. Epub 2013 Nov
2.

Grafting of Neonatal marmoset monkey testicular single-cell suspensions into
immunodeficient mice leads to ex situ testicular cord neomorphogenesis.

Aeckerle N(1), Dressel R, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Single-cell suspensions derived from immature rodent and ungulate testes can
reconstitute testicular cords upon grafting into immunodeficient mice. In the
present study, neonatal common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) testes were
digested to a single-cell suspension, which was transplanted subcutaneously into 
immunodeficient mice. After 9 or 18 weeks of incubation, the derivatives of the
grafted single-cell suspensions were retrieved and analyzed histologically and
immunohistochemically. Three of 4 (75%) neonatal grafts exhibited reconstituted
seminiferous cords strongly resembling seminiferous cords of the intact neonatal 
testis. The cords consisted of Sertoli cells, germ cells and peritubular myoid
cells, which was confirmed by immunohistochemical marker analysis.
Three-dimensional reconstruction models of the grafts revealed elongated tubules.
Some of the tubules were branched, which occurs also in vivo, as we show here for
the marmoset monkey. Importantly, no teratoma formation by immature pluripotency 
factor-expressing germ cells was observed. In summary, the reconstituted
testicular cords were almost indistinguishable from the cords formed in situ,
thereby impressively demonstrating a very high reconstructive potential of a
single-cell suspension obtained from the neonatal marmoset monkey testis. To our 
knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating testicular cord neomorphogenesis
for a primate species ex situ.

DOI: 10.1159/000355339 
PMID: 24192033  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

