

1489. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Nov 12;110(46):18537-42. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1317608110. Epub 2013 Oct 28.

Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen leader protein localizes to promoters and
enhancers with cell transcription factors and EBNA2.

Portal D(1), Zhou H, Zhao B, Kharchenko PV, Lowry E, Wong L, Quackenbush J,
Holloway D, Jiang S, Lu Y, Kieff E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Department of
Microbiology and Immunobiology, Harvard University, Boston, MA 02115.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigens EBNALP (LP) and EBNA2 (E2) are
coexpressed in EBV-infected B lymphocytes and are critical for lymphoblastoid
cell line outgrowth. LP removes NCOR and RBPJ repressive complexes from
promoters, enhancers, and matrix-associated deacetylase bodies, whereas E2
activates transcription from distal enhancers. LP ChIP-seq analyses identified
19,224 LP sites of which ~50% were ± 2 kb of a transcriptional start site. LP
sites were enriched for B-cell transcription factors (TFs), YY1, SP1, PAX5, BATF,
IRF4, ETS1, RAD21, PU.1, CTCF, RBPJ, ZNF143, SMC3, NFκB, TBLR, and EBF. E2 sites 
were also highly enriched for LP-associated cell TFs and were more highly
occupied by RBPJ and EBF. LP sites were highly marked by H3K4me3, H3K27ac, H2Az, 
H3K9ac, RNAPII, and P300, indicative of activated transcription. LP sites were
29% colocalized with E2 (LP/E2). LP/E2 sites were more similar to LP than to E2
sites in associated cell TFs, RNAPII, P300, and histone H3K4me3, H3K9ac, H3K27ac,
and H2Az occupancy, and were more highly transcribed than LP or E2 sites. Gene
affected by CTCF and LP cooccupancy were more highly expressed than genes
affected by CTCF alone. LP was at myc enhancers and promoters and of MYC
regulated ccnd2, 23 med complex components, and MYC regulated cell survival
genes, igf2r and bcl2. These data implicate LP and associated TFs and DNA looping
factors CTCF, RAD21, SMC3, and YY1/INO80 chromatin-remodeling complexes in
repressor depletion and gene activation necessary for lymphoblastoid cell line
growth and survival.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1317608110 
PMCID: PMC3832032
PMID: 24167291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

