

1493. J Mol Neurosci. 2014 Feb;52(2):302-12. doi: 10.1007/s12031-013-0145-y. Epub 2013 
Oct 23.

Proteomic analysis of striatum from MPTP-treated marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia of differing severity.

Hurley MJ(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Science, School of Biomedical Science, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK,
m.hurley@imperial.ac.uk.

Marmosets rendered parkinsonian with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP) and treated with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) develop dyskinesia,
but with differing degrees of severity. To provide insight into the molecular
mechanisms responsible for the different level of dyskinesia to manifest in
individual animals, proteins in striatum from MPTP-treated marmosets with
different levels of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia were separated by 2-dimensional
(2-D) protein electrophoresis. Thirty-five differentially expressed proteins were
identified by mass spectrometry and peptide mass fingerprinting, and comparative 
analysis found 10 were significantly increased and 3 had significantly reduced
expression in animals with a high level of dyskinesia when compared to animals
with a low incidence of dyskinesia. These proteins belonged to a range of
functional classes, for example, molecular chaperones, metabolic enzymes and
synaptic structural proteins. The findings of this study provide clues about the 
molecular mechanisms that cause dyskinesia to manifest and point towards
potential novel targets for the development of therapeutic agents to prevent or
treat established dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1007/s12031-013-0145-y 
PMID: 24150990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

