

1498. J Neurosci. 2013 Oct 16;33(42):16796-804. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3146-13.2013.

Large-scale brain networks in the awake, truly resting marmoset monkey.

Belcher AM(1), Yen CC, Stepp H, Gu H, Lu H, Yang Y, Silva AC, Stein EA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimaging Research Branch, National Institute on Drug Abuse, National
Institutes of Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, and Cerebral Microcirculation
Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging, National Institute of
Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892.

Resting-state functional MRI is a powerful tool that is increasingly used as a
noninvasive method for investigating whole-brain circuitry and holds great
potential as a possible diagnostic for disease. Despite this potential, few
resting-state studies have used animal models (of which nonhuman primates
represent our best opportunity of understanding complex human neuropsychiatric
disease), and no work has characterized networks in awake, truly resting animals.
Here we present results from a small New World monkey that allows for the
characterization of resting-state networks in the awake state. Six adult common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were acclimated to light, comfortable restraint
using individualized helmets. Following behavioral training, resting BOLD data
were acquired during eight consecutive 10 min scans for each conscious subject.
Group independent component analysis revealed 12 brain networks that overlap
substantially with known anatomically constrained circuits seen in the awake
human. Specifically, we found eight sensory and "lower-order" networks (four
visual, two somatomotor, one cerebellar, and one caudate-putamen network), and
four "higher-order" association networks (one default mode-like network, one
orbitofrontal, one frontopolar, and one network resembling the human salience
network). In addition to their functional relevance, these network patterns bear 
great correspondence to those previously described in awake humans. This
first-of-its-kind report in an awake New World nonhuman primate provides a
platform for mechanistic neurobiological examination for existing disease models 
established in the marmoset.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3146-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3797383
PMID: 24133280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

