

1509. J Comp Pathol. 2014 Jan;150(1):71-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2013.07.001. Epub 2013
Sep 21.

Thyroid follicular adenoma with accumulation of collagen type IV in a common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kawasako K(1), Doi T(2), Kanno T(2), Wako Y(2), Hamamura M(2), Tsuchitani M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Department, Nonclinical Research Center, Drug Development Service
Segment, Mitsubishi Chemical Medicine Corporation, 14-1 Sunayama, Kamisu, Ibaraki
314-0225, Japan. Electronic address: kawasako.kazufumi@mx.medience.co.jp.
(2)Pathology Department, Nonclinical Research Center, Drug Development Service
Segment, Mitsubishi Chemical Medicine Corporation, 14-1 Sunayama, Kamisu, Ibaraki
314-0225, Japan.

A thyroid tumour was identified in a 10-year-old male common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus). The tumour was encapsulated by fibrous connective tissue and compressed
the adjacent normal thyroid. The tumour was composed of variably sized and
irregularly shaped thyroid follicles lined by a single layer of columnar
epithelial cells. Eosinophilic material at the base of the neoplastic cells
stained black with periodic acid-methenamine silver and red with periodic
acid-Schiff. Immunohistochemistry confirmed that this eosinophilic material was
collagen type IV. Ultrastructurally, highly dense and amorphous material was
observed at the base of the neoplastic cells. Small vesicles in the basolateral
cytoplasm of the neoplastic cells contained similar material to that at the base 
of the cells. The tumour was diagnosed as a thyroid follicular adenoma with
accumulation of collagen type IV. This is the first description of an endocrine
tumour with accumulation of collagen type IV in animals.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2013.07.001 
PMID: 24060155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

