

1510. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 23;8(8):e72065. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072065. eCollection
2013.

Enhancer/promoter activities of the long/middle wavelength-sensitive opsins of
vertebrates mediated by thyroid hormone receptor β2 and COUP-TFII.

Iwagawa T(1), Tanaka Y, Iida A, Itoh T, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of Medical Science,
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Cone photopigments (opsins) are crucial elements of, and the first detection
module in, color vision. Individual opsins have different wavelength sensitivity 
patterns, and the temporal and spatial expression patterns of opsins are unique
and stringently regulated. Long and middle wavelength-sensitive (L/M) opsins are 
of the same phylogenetic type. Although the roles of thyroid hormone/TRß2 and
COUP-TFs in the transcriptional regulation of L/M opsins have been explored, the 
detailed mechanisms, including the target sequence in the enhancer of L/M opsins,
have not been revealed. We aimed to reveal molecular mechanisms of L/M opsins in 
vertebrates. Using several human red opsin enhancer/promoter-luciferase reporter 
constructs, we found that TRß2 increased luciferase activities through the 5'-UTR
and intron 3-4 region, whereas the presence of T3 affected only the intron 3-4
region-dependent luciferase activity. Furthermore, COUP-TFII suppressed intron
3-4 region-dependent luciferase activities. However, luciferase expression driven
by the mouse M opsin intron 3-4 region was only slightly increased by TRß2, and
rather enhanced by COUP-TFII. To determine whether these differential responses
reflect differences between primates and rodents, we examined the
enhancer/promoter region of the red opsin of the common marmoset. Interestingly, 
while TRß2 increased 5'-UTR- or intron 3-4 region-driven luciferase expression,
as observed for the human red opsin, expression of the latter luciferase was not 
suppressed by COUP-TFII. In fact, immunostaining of common marmoset retinal
sections revealed expression of COUP-TFII and red opsin in the cone cells.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072065 
PMCID: PMC3751927
PMID: 24058409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

