

1512. J Neurosci. 2013 Sep 18;33(38):15120-5. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2909-13.2013.

A conserved pattern of differential expansion of cortical areas in simian
primates.

Chaplin TA(1), Yu HH, Soares JG, Gattass R, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, 
Victoria, 3800, Australia, and Programa de Neurobiologia, Universidade Federal do
Rio de Janeiro, Instituto de Biof√≠sica Carlos Chagas Filho, Rio de Janeiro, Rio
de Janeiro 21941-900, Brazil.

The layout of areas in the cerebral cortex of different primates is quite
similar, despite significant variations in brain size. However, it is clear that 
larger brains are not simply scaled up versions of smaller brains: some regions
of the cortex are disproportionately large in larger species. It is currently
debated whether these expanded areas arise through natural selection pressures
for increased cognitive capacity or as a result of the application of a common
developmental sequence on different scales. Here, we used computational methods
to map and quantify the expansion of the cortex in simian primates of different
sizes to investigate whether there is any common pattern of cortical expansion.
Surface models of the marmoset, capuchin, and macaque monkey cortex were
registered using the software package CARET and the spherical landmark vector
difference algorithm. The registration was constrained by the location of
identified homologous cortical areas. When comparing marmosets with both
capuchins and macaques, we found a high degree of expansion in the temporal
parietal junction, the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, and the dorsal anterior
cingulate cortex, all of which are high-level association areas typically
involved in complex cognitive and behavioral functions. These expanded maps
correlated well with previously published macaque to human registrations,
suggesting that there is a general pattern of primate cortical scaling.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2909-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC6618405
PMID: 24048842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

