

1513. J Physiol. 2014 Jan 1;592(1):49-65. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.257352. Epub 2013 
Sep 16.

Inner retinal inhibition shapes the receptive field of retinal ganglion cells in 
primate.

Protti DA(1), Di Marco S, Huang JY, Vonhoff CR, Nguyen V, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)D. A. Protti: Anderson Stuart Bldg (F13), The University of Sydney, NSW 2006, 
Australia. dario.protti@sydney.edu.au.

The centre-surround organisation of receptive fields is a feature of most retinal
ganglion cells (RGCs) and is critical for spatial discrimination and contrast
detection. Although lateral inhibitory processes are known to be important in
generating the receptive field surround, the contribution of each of the two
synaptic layers in the primate retina remains unclear. Here we studied the
spatial organisation of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs onto ON and OFF
ganglion cells in the primate retina. All RGCs showed an increase in excitation
in response to stimulus of preferred polarity. Inhibition onto RGCs comprised two
types of responses to preferred polarity: some RGCs showed an increase in
inhibition whilst others showed removal of tonic inhibition. Excitatory inputs
were strongly spatially tuned but inhibitory inputs showed more variable
organisation: in some neurons they were as strongly tuned as excitation, and in
others inhibitory inputs showed no spatial tuning. We targeted one source of
inner retinal inhibition by functionally ablating spiking amacrine cells with
bath application of tetrodotoxin (TTX). TTX significantly reduced the spatial
tuning of excitatory inputs. In addition, TTX reduced inhibition onto those RGCs 
where a stimulus of preferred polarity increased inhibition. Reconstruction of
the spatial tuning properties by somatic injection of excitatory and inhibitory
synaptic conductances verified that TTX-mediated inhibition onto bipolar cells
increases the strength of the surround in RGC spiking output. These results
indicate that in the primate retina inhibitory mechanisms in the inner plexiform 
layer sharpen the spatial tuning of ganglion cells.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.257352 
PMCID: PMC3903351
PMID: 24042496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

