

1515. Sci Rep. 2013;3:2630. doi: 10.1038/srep02630.

A cross-species socio-emotional behaviour development revealed by a multivariate 
analysis.

Koshiba M(1), Senoo A, Mimura K, Shirakawa Y, Karino G, Obara S, Ozawa S,
Sekihara H, Fukushima Y, Ueda T, Kishino H, Tanaka T, Ishibashi H, Yamanouchi H, 
Yui K, Nakamura S.

Author information: 
(1)1] Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, Japan [2] National
Institute of Neuroscience, NCNP, Tokyo, Japan [3] Saitama Medical University,
Saitama, Japan.

Recent progress in affective neuroscience and social neurobiology has been
propelled by neuro-imaging technology and epigenetic approach in neurobiology of 
animal behaviour. However, quantitative measurements of socio-emotional
development remains lacking, though sensory-motor development has been
extensively studied in terms of digitised imaging analysis. Here, we developed a 
method for socio-emotional behaviour measurement that is based on the video
recordings under well-defined social context using animal models with variously
social sensory interaction during development. The behaviour features digitized
from the video recordings were visualised in a multivariate statistic space using
principal component analysis. The clustering of the behaviour parameters
suggested the existence of species- and stage-specific as well as cross-species
behaviour modules. These modules were used to characterise the behaviour of
children with or without autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). We found that
socio-emotional behaviour is highly dependent on social context and the
cross-species behaviour modules may predict neurobiological basis of ASDs.

DOI: 10.1038/srep02630 
PMCID: PMC6505395
PMID: 24022241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

