

1518. Vet Microbiol. 2013 Dec 27;167(3-4):695-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2013.08.008.
Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Novel mastadenovirus infection and clinical disease in a pygmy marmoset
(Callithrix [Cebuella] pygmaea).

Gál J(1), Hornyák Á, Mándoki M, Bakonyi T, Balka G, Szeredi L, Marosán M, Ludányi
T, Forgách P, Sós E, Demeter Z, Farkas SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Forensic Veterinary Medicine, Division of Exotic
and Wild Animal Medicine, Szent István University, Faculty of Veterinary Science,
István u. 2, H-1078 Budapest, Hungary.

We describe the detection and successful isolation of a novel mastadenovirus from
a pygmy marmoset (Callithrix [Cebuella] pygmaea) that died following an episode
of severe respiratory signs. Pathologic/histopathologic examination revealed
hydrothorax and catarrhal bronchopneumonia with pronounced desquamation of the
bronchiolar epithelial cells, while in other airways a marked hyperplasia of the 
epithelial lining and numerous giant cells could be observed. We obtained partial
sequence data from the adenoviral DNA-dependent DNA-polymerase gene of the
isolated strain and analyses of this region showed the highest level of identity 
to the recently described bat adenoviruses (strains PPV1 and TJM) and the type 2 
canine adenovirus. Similar results were gained by phylogenetic calculations
indicating that this novel marmoset adenovirus is only distantly related to
reference Old and New World primate adenoviruses and formed a monophyletic group 
with bat and canine adenoviruses and the equine adenovirus 1. Even though the
source of the infection remained unknown, our results could imply the possibility
of a cross-species transmission of the virus from an anonymous host to the pygmy 
marmoset.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2013.08.008 
PMID: 24012169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

