

152. How Might We Get from Genes to Circuits to Disease?.

Kaiser T, Mei Y, Feng G.
In: Nikolich K, Hyman SE, editors. Translational Neuroscience: Toward New
Therapies [Internet]. Cambridge (MA): MIT Press; 2015. Chapter 8.

Recent advances in the identification of risk genes for psychiatric disorders
have set the stage for functional interrogation of disease related-circuits and
underlying mechanisms of pathophysiology. Still, investigators face significant
challenges: (a) hundreds of genes may contribute to pathogenesis of a given
disorder (polygenicity and genetic heterogeneity), (b) risk alleles may only
cause the disease in combination with other factors (reduced penetrance), and (c)
commonly used rodent models may have significant limitations in studying
psychiatric disorders, due to differences in brain structure and function between
rodents and humans. To address these challenges, high-throughput functional
assays should be developed in combination with induced pluripotent stem cells
(iPSC) technology and novel genome-engineering technologies, as these will help
identify common pathways and mechanisms onto which multiple risk genes may
converge. To overcome limitations of current animal models in psychiatric
research, novel genome-editing technologies provide an opportunity to generate
better animal models (e.g., the common marmoset) to dissect disease-relevant
circuit dysfunction. Finally, powerful new tools (e.g., CLARITY, dense neural
circuit reconstruction, and optogenetics) may help identify and test the
relationship between distinct circuit defects and abnormal behaviors observed in 
these animal models. Such approaches are needed to span the gap between emerging 
genetic information and the symptomatic description of neuropsychiatric
disorders.

PMID: 33886215 

