

1520. J Physiol. 2013 Nov 15;591(22):5671-90. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.257568. Epub
2013 Sep 2.

Texture-dependent motion signals in primate middle temporal area.

Gharaei S(1), Tailby C, Solomon SS, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)S. G. Solomon: 26 Bedford Way, London WC1 0AH, UK. s.solomon@ucl.ac.uk.

Neurons in the middle temporal (MT) area of primate cortex provide an important
stage in the analysis of visual motion. For simple stimuli such as bars and
plaids some neurons in area MT--pattern cells--seem to signal motion independent 
of contour orientation, but many neurons--component cells--do not. Why area MT
supports both types of receptive field is unclear. To address this we made
extracellular recordings from single units in area MT of anaesthetised marmoset
monkeys and examined responses to two-dimensional images with a large range of
orientations and spatial frequencies. Component and pattern cell response
remained distinct during presentation of these complex spatial textures.
Direction tuning curves were sharpest in component cells when a texture contained
a narrow range of orientations, but were similar across all neurons for textures 
containing all orientations. Response magnitude of pattern cells, but not
component cells, increased with the spatial bandwidth of the texture. In
addition, response variability in all neurons was reduced when the stimulus was
rich in spatial texture. Fisher information analysis showed that component cells 
provide more informative responses than pattern cells when a texture contains a
narrow range of orientations, but pattern cells had more informative responses
for broadband textures. Component cells and pattern cells may therefore coexist
because they provide complementary and parallel motion signals.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2013.257568 
PMCID: PMC3853503
PMID: 24000175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

