

1524. J Comp Neurol. 2014 Mar;522(4):811-43. doi: 10.1002/cne.23447.

Patterns of cortical input to the primary motor area in the marmoset monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Bakola S, Richardson KE, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.

In primates the primary motor cortex (M1) forms a topographic map of the body,
whereby neurons in the medial part of this area control movements involving trunk
and hindlimb muscles, those in the intermediate part control movements involving 
forelimb muscles, and those in the lateral part control movements of facial and
other head muscles. This topography is accompanied by changes in
cytoarchitectural characteristics, raising the question of whether the anatomical
connections also vary between different parts of M1. To address this issue, we
compared the patterns of cortical afferents revealed by retrograde tracer
injections in different locations within M1 of marmoset monkeys. We found that
the entire extent of this area is unified by projections from the dorsocaudal and
medial subdivisions of premotor cortex (areas 6DC and 6M), from somatosensory
areas 3a, 3b, 1/2, and S2, and from posterior parietal area PE. While cingulate
areas projected to all subdivisions, they preferentially targeted the medial part
of M1. Conversely, the ventral premotor areas were preferentially connected with 
the lateral part of M1. Smaller but consistent inputs originated in frontal area 
6DR, ventral posterior parietal cortex, the retroinsular cortex, and area TPt.
Connections with intraparietal, prefrontal, and temporal areas were very sparse, 
and variable. Our results demonstrate that M1 is unified by a consistent pattern 
of major connections, but also shows regional variations in terms of minor
inputs. These differences likely reflect requirements for control of voluntary
movement involving different body parts.

Copyright Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23447 
PMID: 23939531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

