

1529. J Neurosci. 2013 Jul 24;33(30):12479-89. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0844-13.2013.

Visually evoked responses in extrastriate area MT after lesions of striate cortex
in early life.

Yu HH(1), Chaplin TA, Egan GW, Reser DH, Worthy KH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, 3800,
Australia.

Lesions of striate cortex [primary visual cortex (V1)] in adult primates result
in blindness. In contrast, V1 lesions in neonates typically allow much greater
preservation of vision, including, in many human patients, conscious perception. 
It is presently unknown how this marked functional difference is related to
physiological changes in cortical areas that are spared by the lesions. Here we
report a study of the middle temporal area (MT) of adult marmoset monkeys that
received unilateral V1 lesions within 6 weeks of birth. In contrast with
observations after similar lesions in adult monkeys, we found that virtually all 
neurons in the region of MT that was deprived of V1 inputs showed robust
responses to visual stimulation. These responses were very similar to those
recorded in neurons with receptive fields outside the lesion projection zones in 
terms of firing rate, signal-to-noise ratio, and latency. In addition, the normal
retinotopic organization of MT was maintained. Nonetheless, we found evidence of 
a very specific functional deficit: direction selectivity, a key physiological
characteristic of MT that is known to be preserved in many cells after adult V1
lesions, was absent. These results demonstrate that lesion-induced reorganization
of afferent pathways is sufficient to develop robust visual function in primate
extrastriate cortex, highlighting a likely mechanism for the sparing of vision
after neonatal V1 lesions. However, they also suggest that interactions with V1
in early postnatal life are critical for establishing stimulus selectivity in MT.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0844-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC6618667
PMID: 23884952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

