

1536. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 28;8(6):e68276. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068276. Print 2013.

Relationship between size summation properties, contrast sensitivity and response
latency in the dorsomedial and middle temporal areas of the primate extrastriate 
cortex.

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
Leo.Lui@monash.edu

Analysis of the physiological properties of single neurons in visual cortex has
demonstrated that both the extent of their receptive fields and the latency of
their responses depend on stimulus contrast. Here, we explore the question of
whether there are also systematic relationships between these response properties
across different cells in a neuronal population. Single unit recordings were
obtained from the middle temporal (MT) and dorsomedial (DM) extrastriate areas of
anaesthetized marmoset monkeys. For each cell, spatial integration properties
(length and width summation, as well as the presence of end- and side-inhibition 
within 15Â° of the receptive field centre) were determined using gratings of
optimal direction of motion and spatial and temporal frequencies, at 60%
contrast. Following this, contrast sensitivity was assessed using gratings of
near-optimal length and width. In both areas, we found a relationship between
spatial integration and contrast sensitivity properties: cells that summated over
smaller areas of the visual field, and cells that displayed response inhibition
at larger stimulus sizes, tended to show higher contrast sensitivity. In a sample
of MT neurons, we found that cells showing longer latency responses also tended
to summate over larger expanses of visual space in comparison with neurons that
had shorter latencies. In addition, longer-latency neurons also tended to show
less obvious surround inhibition. Interestingly, all of these effects were
stronger and more consistent with respect to the selectivity for stimulus width
and strength of side-inhibition than for length selectivity and end-inhibition.
The results are partially consistent with a hierarchical model whereby more
extensive receptive fields require convergence of information from larger pools
of "feedforward" afferent neurons to reach near-optimal responses. They also
suggest that a common gain normalization mechanism within MT and DM is involved, 
the spatial extent of which is more evident along the cell's preferred axis of
motion.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068276 
PMCID: PMC3695924
PMID: 23840842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

