

1539. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2013 Nov;386(11):963-72. doi:
10.1007/s00210-013-0897-5. Epub 2013 Jun 29.

In vitro pharmacological profile of the A2A receptor antagonist istradefylline.

Saki M(1), Yamada K, Koshimura E, Sasaki K, Kanda T.

Author information: 
(1)Sales and Marketing Division, Marketing Department, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co.,
Ltd., 1-6-1 Ohtemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8185, Japan.

Adenosine A2A receptors are suggested to be a promising non-dopaminergic target
for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Istradefylline is an adenosine A2A
receptor antagonist that has been reported to exhibit antiparkinsonian activities
in PD patients as well as both rodents and nonhuman primate models of PD. The aim
of this study was to evaluate the in vitro pharmacological profile of
istradefylline as an A2A receptor antagonist. Istradefylline exhibited high
affinity for A2A receptors in humans, marmosets, dogs, rats, and mice. The
affinities for the other subtypes of adenosine receptors (A1, A2B, and A3) were
lower than that for A2A receptors in each species. Istradefylline demonstrated no
significant affinity for other neurotransmitter receptors, including dopamine
receptors (D1, D2, D3, D4, and D5). In addition, istradefylline hardly inhibited 
monoamine oxidase-A, monoamine oxidase-B, or catechol-O-methyl transferase. A
kinetic analysis indicated that istradefylline reversibly binds to the human A2A 
receptors: The association reached equilibrium within 1 min, and the binding was 
also almost completely dissociated within 1 min. Istradefylline inhibited the A2A
agonist CGS21680-induced accumulation of cAMP in the cultured cells and then
shifted the concentration-response curve of CGS21680 to the right without
affecting the maximal response of the agonist. These results indicate that
istradefylline is a potent, selective, and competitive A2A receptor antagonist.
The in vitro pharmacological profile of istradefylline helps to explain the in
vivo profile of istradefylline and may be useful for clinical
pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic considerations of efficacy and safety.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-013-0897-5 
PMID: 23812646  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

