

1540. Exp Neurol. 2013 Oct;248:224-7. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2013.06.016. Epub 2013
Jun 26.

Lack of secondary pathology in the thalamus after focal cerebral ischemia in
nonhuman primates.

Lipsanen A(1), Kalesnykas G, Pro-Sistiaga P, Hiltunen M, Vanninen R, Bernaudin M,
Touzani O, Jolkkonen J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine-Neurology, University of Eastern Finland,
Kuopio, Finland.

Remote regions such as the thalamus undergo secondary degeneration after cerebral
ischemia. In rodents, the pathology in the thalamus is characterized by a robust 
inflammatory reaction, β-amyloid (Aβ) accumulation and calcification. Here we
studied whether nonhuman primates subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion
(MCAO) display a similar pathology. Common marmosets (n=4) were subjected to
transient MCAO for 3 h. Two sham-operated animals served as controls. All animals
underwent MRI examination (T2) on postoperative day 7 to assess the location of
the infarct. After a 45-day follow-up period, the animals were perfused for
histology to evaluate β-amyloid and calcium load in the peri-infarct regions and 
the thalamus. There was no Aβ or calcium staining in the sham-operated marmosets.
The contralateral hemisphere was devoid of Aβ and calcium staining in MCAO
animals, except calcium staining in one animal. In the ipsilateral cortex, patchy
groups of Aβ-positive cells were observed. Occasional calcium staining was
observed in the peri-infarct regions, lesion core, and remote regions such as the
substantia nigra. The most important, the thalamus was devoid of any sign of Aβ
and calcium aggregation in MCAO animals. Staining for glial fibrillary acidic
protein (GFAP) showed marked astrogliosis in the ipsilateral cortex and thalamus.
In conclusion, our preliminary study in marmosets did not identify Aβ and calcium
pathology in the thalamus following cerebral ischemia as shown in rodents.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2013.06.016 
PMID: 23810737  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

