

1541. J Neurosci. 2013 Jun 19;33(25):10312-23. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0020-13.2013.

Neural representation of harmonic complex tones in primary auditory cortex of the
awake monkey.

Fishman YI(1), Micheyl C, Steinschneider M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Kennedy Center, 
Bronx, New York 10461, USA. yonatan.fishman@einstein.yu.edu

Many natural sounds are periodic and consist of frequencies (harmonics) that are 
integer multiples of a common fundamental frequency (F0). Such harmonic complex
tones (HCTs) evoke a pitch corresponding to their F0, which plays a key role in
the perception of speech and music. "Pitch-selective" neurons have been
identified in non-primary auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys. Noninvasive
studies point to a putative "pitch center" located in a homologous cortical
region in humans. It remains unclear whether there is sufficient spectral and
temporal information available at the level of primary auditory cortex (A1) to
enable reliable pitch extraction in non-primary auditory cortex. Here we
evaluated multiunit responses to HCTs in A1 of awake macaques using a stimulus
design employed in auditory nerve studies of pitch encoding. The F0 of the HCTs
was varied in small increments, such that harmonics of the HCTs fell either on
the peak or on the sides of the neuronal pure tone tuning functions. Resultant
response-amplitude-versus-harmonic-number functions ("rate-place profiles")
displayed a periodic pattern reflecting the neuronal representation of individual
HCT harmonics. Consistent with psychoacoustic findings in humans, lower harmonics
were better resolved in rate-place profiles than higher harmonics. Lower F0s were
also temporally represented by neuronal phase-locking to the periodic waveform of
the HCTs. Findings indicate that population responses in A1 contain sufficient
spectral and temporal information for extracting the pitch of HCTs by neurons in 
downstream cortical areas that receive their input from A1.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0020-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3685833
PMID: 23785145  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

