

1542. J Comp Neurol. 2013 Dec 1;521(17):4027-60. doi: 10.1002/cne.23389.

Differential cadherin expression in the developing postnatal telencephalon of a
New World monkey.

Matsunaga E(1), Nambu S, Oka M, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 
Wako, 351-0198, Japan.

Cadherins are cell adhesion molecules widely expressed in the nervous system,
where they play various roles in neural patterning, nuclei formation, axon
guidance, and synapse formation and function. Although many published articles
have reported on cadherin expression in rodents and ferrets, there are limited
data on their expression in primate brains. In this study, in situ hybridization 
analysis was performed for 10 cadherins [nine classic cadherins (Cdh4, -6, -7,
-8, -9, -10, -11, -12, and -20) and T-cadherin (Cdh13)] in the developing
postnatal telencephalon of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Each
cadherin showed broad expression in the cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, amygdala,
and hippocampus, as previously shown in the rodent brain. However, detailed
expression patterns differed between rodents and marmosets. In contrast to
rodents, cadherin expression was reduced overall and localized to restricted
areas of the brain during the developmental process, suggesting that cadherins
are more crucially involved in developmental or maturation processes rather than 
in neural functioning. These results also highlight the possibility that
restricted/less redundant cadherin expression allows primate brains to generate
functional diversity among neurons, allowing morphological and functional
differences between rodents and primates.

Copyright Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23389 
PMID: 23784870  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

