

1543. Front Immunol. 2013 Jun 13;4:145. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2013.00145. eCollection
2013.

The Primate EAE Model Points at EBV-Infected B Cells as a Preferential Therapy
Target in Multiple Sclerosis.

't Hart BA(1), Jagessar SA, Haanstra K, Verschoor E, Laman JD, Kap YS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre , Rijswijk ,
Netherlands ; Multiple Sclerosis Center, Erasmus MC , Rotterdam , Netherlands ;
Department of Neuroscience, University Medical Center Groningen , Groningen ,
Netherlands ; Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center
Rotterdam , Rotterdam , Netherlands.

The remarkable clinical efficacy of anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies (mAb) in
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis points at the critical involvement of B
cells in the disease. However, the exact pathogenic contribution of B cells is
poorly understood. In this publication we review new data on the role of CD20+ B 
cells in a unique experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small-bodied neotropical primate. We will also 
discuss the relevance of these data for MS. Different from rodent EAE models, but
similar to MS, disease progression in marmosets can develop independent of
autoantibodies. Progressive disease is mediated by MHC class Ib (Caja-E)
restricted cytotoxic T cells, which are activated by γ-herpesvirus-infected B
cells and cause widespread demyelination of cortical gray matter. B-cell directed
monoclonal antibody therapies (anti-CD20 versus anti-BLyS and anti-APRIL) have a 
variable effect on EAE progression, which we found associated with variable
depletion of the Epstein Barr virus (EBV)-like γ-herpesvirus CalHV3 from lymphoid
organs. These findings support an important pathogenic role of CD20+ B cell in
MS, especially of the subset infected with EBV.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2013.00145 
PMCID: PMC3680746
PMID: 23781220 

