

1544. Am J Primatol. 2013 Nov;75(11):1084-95. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22167. Epub 2013 Jun 14.

The behavioral context of visual displays in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

de Boer RA(1), Overduin-de Vries AM, Louwerse AL, Sterck EH.

Author information: 
(1)Ethology Research, Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research
Center, Rijswijk, The Netherlands; Animal Ecology, Utrecht University, Utrecht,
The Netherlands.

Communication is important in social species, and may occur with the use of
visual, olfactory or auditory signals. However, visual communication may be
hampered in species that are arboreal have elaborate facial coloring and live in 
small groups. The common marmoset fits these criteria and may have limited visual
communication. Nonetheless, some (contradictive) propositions concerning visual
displays in the common marmoset have been made, yet quantitative data are
lacking. The aim of this study was to assign a behavioral context to different
visual displays using pre-post-event-analyses. Focal observations were conducted 
on 16 captive adult and sub-adult marmosets in three different family groups.
Based on behavioral elements with an unambiguous meaning, four different
behavioral contexts were distinguished: aggression, fear, affiliation, and play
behavior. Visual displays concerned behavior that included facial expressions,
body postures, and pilo-erection of the fur. Visual displays related to
aggression, fear, and play/affiliation were consistent with the literature. We
propose that the visual display "pilo-erection tip of tail" is related to fear.
Individuals receiving these fear signals showed a higher rate of affiliative
behavior. This study indicates that several visual displays may provide cues or
signals of particular social contexts. Since the three displays of fear elicited 
an affiliative response, they may communicate a request of anxiety reduction or
signal an external referent. Concluding, common marmosets, despite being arboreal
and living in small groups, use several visual displays to communicate with
conspecifics and their facial coloration may not hamper, but actually promote the
visibility of visual displays.

Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22167 
PMID: 23776035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

