

1545. Mult Scler. 2014 Jan;20(1):64-71. doi: 10.1177/1352458513492244. Epub 2013 Jun
17.

Perivenular brain lesions in a primate multiple sclerosis model at 7-tesla
magnetic resonance imaging.

Gait√°n MI(1), Maggi P, Wohler J, Leibovitch E, Sati P, Calandri IL, Merkle H,
Massacesi L, Silva AC, Jacobson S, Reich DS.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroradiology Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, USA.

BACKGROUND Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can provide in vivo assessment of
tissue damage, allowing evaluation of multiple sclerosis (MS) lesion evolution
over time--a perspective not obtainable with postmortem histopathology.
Relapsing-remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an
experimental model of MS that can be induced in the common marmoset, a small new 
world primate, and that causes perivenular white matter (WM) lesions similar to
those observed in MS. METHODS Brain lesion development and evolution were studied
in vivo and postmortem in four marmosets with EAE through serial T2- and
T2*-weighted scans at 7-tesla. Supratentorial WM lesions were identified and
characterized. RESULTS Of 97 lesions observed, 86 (88%) were clearly perivenular,
and 62 (72%) developed around veins that were visible even prior to EAE
induction. The perivenular configuration was confirmed by postmortem
histopathology. Most affected veins, and their related perivascular Virchow-Robin
spaces, passed into the subarachnoid space rather than the ventricles. CONCLUSION
As in human MS, the intimate association between small veins and EAE lesions in
the marmoset can be studied with serial in vivo MRI. This further strengthens the
usefulness of this model for understanding the process of perivenular lesion
development and accompanying tissue destruction in MS.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458513492244 
PMCID: PMC4745928
PMID: 23773983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

