

1547. BMC Vet Res. 2013 Jun 11;9:113. doi: 10.1186/1746-6148-9-113.

Comparison of three different sedative-anaesthetic protocols (ketamine,
ketamine-medetomidine and alphaxalone) in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Bakker J, Uilenreef JJ, Pelt ER, Brok HP, Remarque EJ, Langermans JA.

BACKGROUND: Handling of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) usually requires
chemical restraint. Ketamine has been associated with muscle damage in primates, 
while common marmosets, compared to other primates, additionally display an
exceptional high sensitivity to ketamine-associated side-effects. Notably, muscle
twitching movements of limbs and hands, and a marked increase in salivation are
observed. We investigated two alternative intramuscular (i.m.) immobilisation
protocols against ketamine (50 mg/kg; protocol 1) in a double-blind randomised
crossover study in ten healthy adult common marmosets for use as a safe reliable,
short-term immobilisation and sedation. These protocols comprised: alphaxalone
(12 mg/kg; protocol 2) and 25 mg/kg ketamine combined with 0.50 mg/kg
medetomidine (reversal with 2.5 mg/kg atipamezole; protocol 3A). Following
completion and unblinding, the project was extended with an additional protocol
(3B), comprising 25 mg/kg ketamine combined with 0.05 mg/kg medetomidine
(reversal with 0.25 mg/kg atipamezole, twice with 35 min interval).
RESULTS: All protocols in this study provided rapid onset (induction times
<5 min) of immobilisation and sedation. Duration of immobilisation was
31.23 ± 22.39 min, 53.72 ± 13.08 min, 19.73 ± 5.74 min, and 22.78 ± 22.37 min for
protocol 1, 2, 3A, and 3B, respectively. Recovery times were 135.84 ± 39.19 min, 
55.79 ± 11.02 min, 405.46 ± 29.81 min, and 291.91 ± 80.34 min, respectively.
Regarding the quality, and reliability (judged by pedal withdrawal reflex,
palpebral reflex and muscle tension) of all protocols, protocol 2 was the most
optimal. Monitored vital parameters were within clinically acceptable limits
during all protocols and there were no fatalities. Indication of muscle damage as
assessed by AST, LDH and CK values was most prominent elevated in protocol 1, 3A,
and 3B.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that intramuscular administration of 12 mg/kg
alphaxalone to common marmosets is preferred over other protocols studied.
Protocol 2 resulted in at least comparable immobilisation quality with acceptable
and less frequent side effects and superior recovery quality. In all protocols,
supportive therapy, such as external heat support, remains mandatory. Notably, an
unacceptable long recovery period in both ketamine/medetomidine protocols
(subsequently reversed with atipamezole) was observed, showing that α-2
adrenoreceptor agonists in the used dose and dosing regime is not the first
choice for sedation in common marmosets in a standard research setting.

DOI: 10.1186/1746-6148-9-113 
PMCID: PMC3686586
PMID: 23758836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

