

1551. Mol Ther Nucleic Acids. 2013 May 28;2:e95. doi: 10.1038/mtna.2013.21.

Robust Long-term Transduction of Common Marmoset Neuromuscular Tissue With rAAV1 
and rAAV9.

Okada H(1), Ishibashi H, Hayashita-Kinoh H, Chiyo T, Nitahara-Kasahara Y, Baba Y,
Watanabe S, Takeda S, Okada T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Therapy, National Institute of Neuroscience, National 
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.

Profiles of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated transduction show 
interspecies differences for each AAV serotype. Robust long-term transgene
expression is generally observed in rodents, whereas insufficient transduction is
seen in animals with more advanced immune systems. Non-human primates, including 
the common marmoset, could provide appropriate models for neuromuscular diseases 
because of their higher brain functions and physiological resemblance to humans. 
Strategies to induce pathologies in the neuromuscular tissues of non-human
primates by rAAV-mediated transduction are promising; however, transgene
expression patterns with rAAV transduction have not been elucidated in marmosets.
In this study, transduction of adult marmoset skeletal muscle with rAAV9 led to
robust and persistent enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) expression that
was independent of the muscle fiber type, although lymphocyte infiltration was
recognized. Systemic rAAV injection into pregnant marmosets led to transplacental
fetal transduction. Surprisingly, the intraperitoneal injection of rAAV1 and
rAAV9 into the neonatal marmoset resulted in systemic transduction and persistent
transgene expression without lymphocyte infiltration. Skeletal and cardiac muscle
were effectively transduced with rAAV1 and rAAV9, respectively. Interestingly,
rAAV9 transduction led to intense EGFP signaling in the axons of the corpus
callosum. These transduction protocols with rAAV will be useful for investigating
gene functions in the neuromuscular tissues and developing gene therapy
strategies.Molecular Therapy-Nucleic Acids (2013) 2, e95;
doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.21; published online 28 May 2013.

DOI: 10.1038/mtna.2013.21 
PMCID: PMC4817936
PMID: 23715217 

