

1554. Cereb Cortex. 2014 Nov;24(11):2884-98. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bht141. Epub 2013 May 
24.

The guidance molecule Semaphorin3A is differentially involved in the arealization
of the mouse and primate neocortex.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia.

The visual cortex is organized into discrete domains characterized by their
specific function, connectivity, chemoarchitecture, and cytoarchitecture.
Gradients of transcription factors across the anteroposterior and mediolateral
axes of the neocortex have previously been demonstrated to specify the main
sensory regions. However, they do not account for the establishment of multiple
areas in the primate visual cortex, which occupies approximately 50% of the
neocortical surface. We demonstrate that the guidance molecule Semaphorin3A
(Sema3A) is initially secreted in the cortical plate of the embryonic marmoset
monkey and acts as an intrinsic cue to control the migration of subpopulations of
neuronal progenitors and projection neurons expressing the receptor Neuropilin 1 
(Npn1). During the first 2 postnatal weeks, Sema3A expression becomes primarily
associated with ventral visual cortical areas, leading to the specific migration 
of Npn1+ neurons in the late maturing visual areas. In the mouse, Sema3A
distribution is not arealized, but Npn1 expression becomes restricted to the
posterior neocortex at embryonic day 16.5. The selective reduction in the striate
cortex we observe in Sema3A-/- animals potentially results from the differential 
distribution of Npn1+ cells. Therefore, the Sema3A/Npn1 pathway participates to
the parcellation of the visual neocortex in both the mouse and the marmoset,
however, through different regulatory processes.

Â© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bht141 
PMID: 23709645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

