

1555. J Neurosci. 2013 May 22;33(21):9161-8. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0066-13.2013.

The role of harmonic resolvability in pitch perception in a vocal nonhuman
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Osmanski MS(1), Song X, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Pitch is one of the most fundamental percepts in the auditory system and can be
extracted using either spectral or temporal information in an acoustic signal.
Although pitch perception has been extensively studied in human subjects, it is
far less clear how nonhuman primates perceive pitch. We have addressed this
question in a series of behavioral studies in which marmosets, a vocal nonhuman
primate species, were trained to discriminate complex harmonic tones differing in
either spectral (fundamental frequency [f0]) or temporal envelope (repetition
rate) cues. We found that marmosets used temporal envelope information to
discriminate pitch for acoustic stimuli with higher-order harmonics and lower f0 
values and spectral information for acoustic stimuli with lower-order harmonics
and higher f0 values. We further measured frequency resolution in marmosets using
a psychophysical task in which pure tone thresholds were measured as a function
of notched noise masker bandwidth. Results show that only the first four
harmonics are resolved at low f0 values and up to 16 harmonics are resolved at
higher f0 values. Resolvability in marmosets is different from that in humans,
where the first five to nine harmonics are consistently resolved across most f0
values, and is likely the result of a smaller marmoset cochlea. In sum, these
results show that marmosets use two mechanisms to extract pitch (harmonic
templates [spectral] for resolved harmonics, and envelope extraction [temporal]
for unresolved harmonics) and that species differences in stimulus resolvability 
need to be taken into account when investigating and comparing mechanisms of
pitch perception across animals.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0066-13.2013 
PMCID: PMC3694575
PMID: 23699526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

