

1556. J Virol. 2013 Jul;87(14):8179-94. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00443-13. Epub 2013 May 22.

Epstein-Barr virus transcytosis through polarized oral epithelial cells.

Tugizov SM(1), Herrera R, Palefsky JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco,
California, USA. sharof.tugizov@ucsf.edu

Although Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is an orally transmitted virus, viral
transmission through the oropharyngeal mucosal epithelium is not well understood.
In this study, we investigated how EBV traverses polarized human oral epithelial 
cells without causing productive infection. We found that EBV may be transcytosed
through oral epithelial cells bidirectionally, from both the apical to the
basolateral membranes and the basolateral to the apical membranes. Apical to
basolateral EBV transcytosis was substantially reduced by amiloride, an inhibitor
of macropinocytosis. Electron microscopy showed that virions were surrounded by
apical surface protrusions and that virus was present in subapical vesicles.
Inactivation of signaling molecules critical for macropinocytosis, including
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases, myosin light-chain kinase, Ras-related C3
botulinum toxin substrate 1, p21-activated kinase 1, ADP-ribosylation factor 6,
and cell division control protein 42 homolog, led to significant reduction in EBV
apical to basolateral transcytosis. In contrast, basolateral to apical EBV
transcytosis was substantially reduced by nystatin, an inhibitor of
caveolin-mediated virus entry. Caveolae were detected in the basolateral
membranes of polarized human oral epithelial cells, and virions were detected in 
caveosome-like endosomes. Methyl Î²-cyclodextrin, an inhibitor of caveola
formation, reduced EBV basolateral entry. EBV virions transcytosed in either
direction were able to infect B lymphocytes. Together, these data show that EBV
transmigrates across oral epithelial cells by (i) apical to basolateral
transcytosis, potentially contributing to initial EBV penetration that leads to
systemic infection, and (ii) basolateral to apical transcytosis, which may enable
EBV secretion into saliva in EBV-infected individuals.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00443-13 
PMCID: PMC3700193
PMID: 23698302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

