

1559. Int J Oncol. 2013 Jul;43(1):29-38. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2013.1949. Epub 2013 May 20.

ROS and ERK1/2-mediated caspase-9 activation increases XAF1 expression in
dexamethasone-induced apoptosis of EBV-transformed B cells.

Park GB(1), Choi Y, Kim YS, Lee HK, Kim D, Hur DY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Research Center for Tumor Immunology, Inje
University College of Medicine, Busan 614-735, Republic of Korea.

Dexamethasone (Dex) inhibits the growth of diverse types of cancer cells and is
utilized clinically for the therapy of hematological malignancies. In this study,
we investigated the molecular mechanisms of Dex action in the apoptosis of
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B cells. We showed that Dex inhibited the
proliferation of EBV-transformed B cells and induced apoptosis by activating
caspase-9, -3 and -8. While activation of caspase-9 was triggered as early as 2 h
after Dex treatment, cleavage of caspase-8 was deferred and was found 8 h after
the exposure. Dex-dependent activation of caspase-8 was blocked by the specific
caspase-9 inhibitor, z-LEHD-fmk. Moreover, Dex significantly increased the
expression of X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP)â€‘associated factor 1 (XAF1)
and induced the translocation of XAF1 into the cytosol. Cytosolic XAF1 with Puma 
induced the translocation of Bax into mitochondria. Dex led to up-regulation of
reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 after 
the exposure. We speculated that ROS generation might be the first event of
Dex-induced apoptosis because ROS inhibitor NAC abrogated ROS production and
ERK1/2 activation, but PD98059 did not block ROS production. NAC and PD98059 also
suppressed the translocation of XAF1, Puma and Bax into mitochondria. These
results demonstrated that Dex-mediated activation of caspase-9 via ROS generation
and ERK1/2 pathway activation resulted in the activation of caspase-8 and the
increment of XAF1, thereby induced apoptosis of EBV-transformed B cells. These
findings suggest that Dex constitutes a probable therapy for EBV-associated
hematological malignancies.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2013.1949 
PMCID: PMC3742161
PMID: 23685456  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

