

156. Hear Res. 2021 Jun;405:108229. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2021.108229. Epub 2021 Mar
27.

Noninvasive scalp recording of the middle latency responses and cortical auditory
evoked potentials in the alert common marmoset.

Itoh K(1), Iwaoki H(2), Konoike N(2), Igarashi H(3), Nakamura K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrated Human Brain Science, Brain Research Institute, Niigata
University, 1-757 Asahimachi, Niigata, 951-8585, Japan. Electronic address:
itoh@bri.niigata-u.ac.jp.
(2)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
41-2, Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi, 484-8506, Japan.
(3)Center for Integrated Human Brain Science, Brain Research Institute, Niigata
University, 1-757 Asahimachi, Niigata, 951-8585, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, serves as a useful 
animal model in clinical and basic neuroscience. The present study recorded scalp
auditory evoked potentials (AEP) in non-sedated common marmoset monkeys (n = 4)
using a noninvasive method similar to that used in humans, and aimed to identify 
nonhuman primate correlates of the human AEP components. A pure tone stimulus was
presented while electroencephalograms were recorded using up to 16 disk
electrodes placed on the scalp and earlobes. Candidate homologues of two
categories of the human AEP, namely, the middle latency responses (MLR; Na, Pa,
Nb, and Pb) and the cortical auditory evoked potentials (CAEP; P1, N1, P2, N2,
and the sustained potential, SP) were identified in the marmoset. These waves
were labeled as CjNa, CjPa, CjNb, CjPb, CjP1, CjN1, CjP2, CjN2, and CjSP, where
Cj stands for Callithrix jacchus. The last MLR component, CjPb, was identical to 
the first CAEP component, CjP1, similar to the relationship between Pb and P1 in 
humans. The peak latencies of the marmoset MLR and CAEP were generally shorter
than in humans, which suggests a shorter integration time in neural processing.
To our knowledge, the present study represents the first scalp recorded MLR and
CAEP in the alert common marmoset. Further use of these recording methods would
enable valid species comparisons of homologous brain indices between humans and
animals.

Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2021.108229 
PMID: 33836489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of Competing Interest None.

