

1560. J Comp Neurol. 2013 Oct 15;521(15):3451-63. doi: 10.1002/cne.23360.

Patterns of cortical reorganization in the adult marmoset after a cervical spinal
cord injury.

Bowes C(1), Burish M, Cerkevich C, Kaas J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, 37203.

In the present study, we used microelectrode recordings of multiunit responses to
evaluate patterns of the reactivation of somatosensory cortex after sensory loss 
produced by spinal cord lesions in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
These New World monkeys have become a popular model in studies of cortical
organization and function. Primary somatosensory cortex and adjoining
somatosensory areas can become extensively deactivated by lesions of
somatosensory afferents as they ascend in the dorsal columns of the cervical
spinal cord. Six to 7 weeks after complete lesions of the cuneate fasciculus
subserving the forelimb at cervical levels 5-6, the hand region in contralateral 
areas 3b and 1 was reactivated by inputs from the forelimb, but excluded
representations of some or all digits. In a similar manner, recording sites from 
the forelimb region of areas 2-5 responded to parts of the forelimb but not to
digits after an extensive lesion of the contralateral cuneate fasciculus at
C5-C6. Lesions that damaged only the gracile fasciculus or a small percentage of 
the cuneate fasciculus did not produce changes in the gross hand representation
in contralateral areas 3b, 3a, 1, and 2. Finally, a complete but lower lesion of 
the cuneate fasciculus at C8 produced some abnormalities in the reactivation, but
the digits were represented. The results indicate that areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2-5
of the somatosensory cortex are extensively reactivated after large, apparently
complete lesions of the contralateral cuneate fasciculus, but afferents from the 
digits may not contribute to their reactivation.

Copyright Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23360 
PMCID: PMC3977742
PMID: 23681952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

