

1561. J Pharm Sci. 2013 Sep;102(9):3343-55. doi: 10.1002/jps.23575. Epub 2013 May 6.

Quantitative atlas of blood-brain barrier transporters, receptors, and tight
junction proteins in rats and common marmoset.

Hoshi Y(1), Uchida Y, Tachikawa M, Inoue T, Ohtsuki S, Terasaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Membrane Transport and Drug Targeting, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tohoku University, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8578, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to determine the protein amounts of blood-brain
barrier (BBB) permeability-related transporters, receptors, and tight junction
proteins in Sprague Dawley and Wistar rats and common marmoset, and also to
investigate inter-species and inter-strain differences across rodents and
primates. Quantification of target proteins in isolated brain capillaries was
conducted by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry-based quantitative
targeted absolute proteomics, with in silico peptide selection. Most target
proteins showed inter-rodent, inter-primate species, and inter-rat strain
differences of less than 2-fold. Comparison of rat and human BBB showed that
P-glycoprotein, multidrug resistance-associated protein 4, monocarboxylate
transporter 1, l-type amino acid transporter, and organic anion transporter 3
exhibited differences of more than two-fold in protein abundance, whereas the
amounts of breast cancer resistance protein, glucose transporter 1, and insulin
receptor were similar in rat and human. In contrast, the differences between
marmoset and human BBB were less than 2-fold for almost all measured proteins.
Thus, the molecular basis of BBB functions may be similar in marmoset and human, 
whereas that of rats shows significant differences. The marmoset may be a good
model to access in vivo human BBB permeability characteristics, as an alternative
to rat and macaque monkey.

Copyright Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jps.23575 
PMID: 23650139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

