

1564. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jul 15;249:109-15. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.04.012. Epub
2013 Apr 19.

Effects of a dopamine D1 agonist on ketamine-induced spatial working memory
dysfunction in common marmosets.

Nakako T(1), Murai T, Ikejiri M, Ishiyama T, Taiji M, Ikeda K.

Author information: 
(1)Ikeda Lab., Drug Development Research Laboratories, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma 
Co., Ltd., 33-94 Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka 564-0053, Japan.

It is considered that functional deficiency of the NMDA receptors in the
prefrontal cortex (PFC) is one of the causes of the cognitive impairment observed
in schizophrenia. As non-human primates display more developed PFC than rodents, 
they are considered to be useful experimental animals for improving the
predictive validity of models used to discover new drugs for treating cognitive
dysfunction. The aim of this study was to develop a convenient model of the
cognitive impairment observed in schizophrenia using common marmosets and the
CANTAB system and to test whether a full agonist of the dopamine D1 receptor
(SKF-81297) was effective against the cognitive impairment induced in this model.
We administered the NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine (1.5-16mg/kg, i.m.) to the 
marmosets to induce cognitive impairment and then evaluated their working memory 
function using the CANTAB spatial working memory (SWM) test. The marmosets'
working memory was impaired by subanesthetic doses of ketamine. Next, we tested
the effect of SKF-81297 (3 or 10mg/kg, p.o.) on this ketamine-induced cognitive
dysfunction. The marmosets were administered SKF-81297 30min before the ketamine 
injection. Pretreatment with SKF-81297 reversed the ketamine-induced cognitive
deficiency. In this study, we found that a D1 receptor agonist, which has been
reported to enhance cognitive function, reversed ketamine-induced cognitive
impairment in marmosets, which suggests that our marmoset model could be a useful
tool for predicting the clinical efficacy of cognitive-enhancing drugs.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.04.012 
PMID: 23608483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

