

1568. Am J Primatol. 2013 Sep;75(9):904-16. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22152. Epub 2013 Apr 16.

The effect of habitat acoustics on common marmoset vocal signal transmission.

Morrill RJ(1), Thomas AW, Schiel N, Souto A, Miller CT.

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

Noisy acoustic environments present several challenges for the evolution of
acoustic communication systems. Among the most significant is the need to limit
degradation of spectro-temporal signal structure in order to maintain
communicative efficacy. This can be achieved by selecting for several potentially
complementary processes. Selection can act on behavioral mechanisms permitting
signalers to control the timing and occurrence of signal production to avoid
acoustic interference. Likewise, the signal itself may be the target of
selection, biasing the evolution of its structure to comprise acoustic features
that avoid interference from ambient noise or degrade minimally in the habitat.
Here, we address the latter topic for common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
long-distance contact vocalizations, known as phee calls. Our aim was to test
whether this vocalization is specifically adapted for transmission in a
species-typical forest habitat, the Atlantic forests of northeastern Brazil. We
combined seasonal analyses of ambient habitat acoustics with experiments in which
pure tones, clicks, and vocalizations were broadcast and rerecorded at different 
distances to characterize signal degradation in the habitat. Ambient sound was
analyzed from intervals throughout the day and over rainy and dry seasons,
showing temporal regularities across varied timescales. Broadcast experiment
results indicated that the tone and click stimuli showed the typically inverse
relationship between frequency and signaling efficacy. Although marmoset phee
calls degraded over distance with marked predictability compared with artificial 
sounds, they did not otherwise appear to be specially designed for increased
transmission efficacy or minimal interference in this habitat. We discuss these
data in the context of other similar studies and evidence of potential behavioral
mechanisms for avoiding acoustic interference in order to maintain effective
vocal communication in common marmosets.

Â© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22152 
PMCID: PMC3787903
PMID: 23592313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

