

1570. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jul 1;248:144-50. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.04.001. Epub 2013
Apr 8.

Hand preference depends on posture in common marmosets.

Hashimoto T(1), Yamazaki Y, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)Lab for Symbolic Cognitive Development, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Saitama, Japan.

Postural conditions are known to affect hand use in many primate species. It
remains to be examined how posture and task differences modulate, or interact
with, hand use in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Three experimental
conditions were introduced to assess the occurrence of preferential hand use as a
function of posture and size of aperture for the subjects to grasp and retrieve
the food item bi- or unimanually: ground level condition for requiring
quadrupedal posture with enough space for food reaching with both hands, large
hole (4 cm in diameter) condition for requiring upright posture with available
space for both hands, and small hole (2 cm in diameter) condition for requiring
upright posture with available space for only one hand. While the distribution of
hand preference did not significantly differ among the three conditions at the
group level, eight out of twelve marmosets did not change hands when identical
upright postures were required in large and small hole conditions. Some marmosets
simultaneously used both hands when both hands were free to reach the food items;
however, the number of left hand users increased when the marmosets were forced
to use either hand to pass through the reduced hole size. Significant
correlations in hand use between the upright posture conditions were observed,
whereas no correlation was observed between the different posture conditions.
These results suggest that, although preferential hand use was not found at group
level, posture, but not size of aperture, has effects on hand use in individual
common marmosets.

Copyright Â© 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.04.001 
PMID: 23578761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

