

1571. Front Neural Circuits. 2013 Apr 9;7:43. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00043.
eCollection 2013.

Monocular inhibition reveals temporal and spatial changes in gene expression in
the primary visual cortex of marmoset.

Nakagami Y(1), Watakabe A, Yamamori T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, Department of Neurobiology, National Institute for 
Basic Biology Okazaki, Japan.

We investigated the time course of the expression of several activity-dependent
genes evoked by visual inputs in the primary visual cortex (V1) in adult
marmosets. In order to examine the rapid time course of activity-dependent gene
expression, marmosets were first monocularly inactivated by tetrodotoxin (TTX),
kept in darkness for two days, and then exposed to various length of light
stimulation. Activity-dependent genes including HTR1B, HTR2A, whose
activity-dependency were previously reported by us, and well-known immediate
early genes (IEGs), c-FOS, ZIF268, and ARC, were examined by in situ
hybridization. Using this system, first, we demonstrated the ocular dominance
type of gene expression pattern in V1 under this condition. IEGs were expressed
in columnar patterns throughout layers II-VI of all the tested monocular
marmosets. Second, we showed the regulation of HTR1B and HTR2A expressions by
retinal spontaneous activity, because HTR1B and HTR2A mRNA expressions sustained 
a certain level regardless of visual stimulation and were inhibited by a blockade
of the retinal activity with TTX. Third, IEGs dynamically changed its laminar
distribution from half an hour to several hours upon a stimulus onset with the
unique time course for each gene. The expression patterns of these genes were
different in neurons of each layer as well. These results suggest that the
regulation of each neuron in the primary visual cortex of marmosets is subjected 
to different regulation upon the change of activities from retina. It should be
related to a highly differentiated laminar structure of marmoset visual systems, 
reflecting the functions of the activity-dependent gene expression in marmoset
V1.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00043 
PMCID: PMC3620563
PMID: 23576954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

