

1575. DNA Res. 2013 Jun;20(3):255-62. doi: 10.1093/dnares/dst007. Epub 2013 Mar 29.

Development and characterization of cDNA resources for the common marmoset: one
of the experimental primate models.

Tatsumoto S(1), Adati N, Tohtoki Y, Sakaki Y, Boroviak T, Habu S, Okano H,
Suemizu H, Sasaki E, Satake M.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Genomic Sciences Center, Suehiro-cho 1-7-22, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama
230-0045, Japan.

The common marmoset is a new world monkey, which has become a valuable
experimental animal for biomedical research. This study developed cDNA libraries 
for the common marmoset from five different tissues. A total of 290 426
high-quality EST sequences were obtained, where 251 587 sequences (86.5%) had
homology (1E(-100)) with the Refseqs of six different primate species, including 
human and marmoset. In parallel, 270 673 sequences (93.2%) were aligned to the
human genome. When 247 090 sequences were assembled into 17 232 contigs, most of 
the sequences (218 857 or 15 089 contigs) were located in exonic regions,
indicating that these genes are expressed in human and marmoset. The other 5578
sequences (or 808 contigs) mapping to the human genome were not located in exonic
regions, suggesting that they are not expressed in human. Furthermore, a
different set of 118 potential coding sequences were not similar to any Refseqs
in any species, and, thus, may represent unknown genes. The cDNA libraries
developed in this study are available through RIKEN Bio Resource Center. A Web
server for the marmoset cDNAs is available at
http://marmoset.nig.ac.jp/index.html, where each marmoset EST sequence has been
annotated by reference to the human genome. These new libraries will be a useful 
genetic resource to facilitate research in the common marmoset.

DOI: 10.1093/dnares/dst007 
PMCID: PMC3686431
PMID: 23543116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

