

1578. Exp Eye Res. 2013 Jun;111:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exer.2013.03.010. Epub 2013 Mar 22.

Establishment of the ocular hypertension model using the common marmoset.

Shimazawa M(1), Nakamura S, Miwa M, Tsuruma K, Aihara M, Nakamura K, Hara H.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu
Pharmaceutical University, 1-25-4 Daigaku-nishi, Gifu 501-1196, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to establish an experimental glaucoma model in the 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Chronic intraocular pressure (IOP)
elevation was induced by laser trabeculoplasty twice at 2-week intervals in the
left eyes of 4 common marmosets. IOP was measured before and at 4, 7, 8, 11, 13
weeks after first laser treatment, and ophthalmoscopic examinations were also
performed. At 13 weeks after laser treatment, each eye was enucleated, and
retinal cross-sections and optic nerve were prepared for histological
examination. Mean IOP values measured at the above 5 time points were over 40
mmHg in laser-treated eyes in 3 marmosets, but IOP in one marmoset was
transiently increased to 26.6 mmHg at 7 weeks and then declined to the baseline
level. In ophthalmoscopy, deepened and enlarged optic disc cupping, depending on 
the extent of IOP elevation and duration, were observed in laser-treated eyes of 
3 marmosets with persistent IOP elevation, but there was no apparent change in
the optic disc in the laser-treated eye of one marmoset with transient IOP
elevation. Histological examination showed marked atrophy with deepened and
enlarged cupping of optic disc, thinning of retinal nerve fiber layer and retinal
ganglion loss in the retina, and axonal atrophy and loss in the optic nerve,
depending on the extent of IOP elevation and duration. In conclusion, we
succeeded in producing an experimental glaucoma model in the common marmoset, and
this model may be useful in elucidating the pathophysiological mechanism for
glaucoma.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exer.2013.03.010 
PMID: 23528536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

