

1579. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e60037. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060037. Epub 2013 Mar 20.

A new non-human primate model of photochemically induced cerebral infarction.

Ikeda S(1), Harada K, Ohwatashi A, Kamikawa Y, Yoshida A, Kawahira K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rehabilitation and Physical Medicine, Graduate School of Medical
and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Japan.
ikedas@m2.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Rat models of photochemically induced cerebral infarction
have been readily studied, but to date there are no reports of transcranial
photochemically induced infarctions in the marmoset. In this report, we used this
non-human primate as a model of cerebral thrombosis and observed the recovery
process.
METHODS: Five common marmosets were used. Cerebral ischemia was produced via
intravascular thrombosis induced by an intravenous injection of Rose Bengal and
irradiation with green light. After inducing cerebral infarction, we observed the
behavior of marmosets via a continuous video recording. We evaluated maximum
speed, mean speed, and distance traveled in 1 min. In addition, we evaluated
scores for feeding behavior, upper limb grip, and lower limb grip. We confirmed
the infarct area after cerebral infarction using 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium
chloride staining in a separate marmoset.
RESULTS: We found functional decreases 2 days after creating the cerebral
infarction in all measurements. Total distance traveled, average speed, upper
limb score, and feeding behavior score did not recover to pre-infarction levels
within 28 days. Maximum speed in 1 min and lower limb score recovered 28 days
after infarction as compared to pre-infarction levels. We confirmed the infarct
area of 11.4 mm Ã— 6.8 mm as stained with 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride.
CONCLUSION: We were able to create a primate photothrombosis-induced cerebral
infarction model using marmosets and observe functional recovery. We suggest that
this is a useful model for basic research of cerebral infarction.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060037 
PMCID: PMC3603910
PMID: 23527298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

