

1583. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2013 Jun;8(3):727-38. doi: 10.1007/s11481-013-9448-6.
Epub 2013 Mar 19.

The different clinical effects of anti-BLyS, anti-APRIL and anti-CD20 antibodies 
point at a critical pathogenic role of γ-herpesvirus infected B cells in the
marmoset EAE model.

Anwar Jagessar S(1), Fagrouch Z, Heijmans N, Bauer J, Laman JD, Oh L, Migone T,
Verschoor EJ, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, PO Box 3306,
2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. jagessar@bprc.nl

The robust and rapid clinical effect of depleting anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies
(mAb) in multiple sclerosis (MS) demonstrates a critical pathogenic contribution 
of B cells. The clinical effect of anti-CD20 mAb has been replicated in a
relevant preclinical MS model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). By contrast, treatment with mAbs against
two essential cytokines in B cell activation growth and survival, i.e. BlyS/BAFF 
and APRIL, was only partially effective. All three mAbs induced depletion of
CD20+ B cells from the circulation, albeit with different kinetics and based on
distinct mechanisms of action. In the current study we analyzed whether the
different clinical effect of anti-CD20 mAb or the anti-BLyS and anti-APRIL mAbs
is due to different depletion of B cells infected with the EBV of marmosets,
CalHV3. Employing a novel PCR-based assay, half of the colony of group-housed
marmosets was tested positive for CalHV3 DNA in secondary lymphoid organs. The
same prevalence was observed in placebo-treated monkeys. In marmosets treated
with anti-CD20 mAb the load of CalHV3 DNA in lymphoid organs was substantially
reduced, while this was not observed in the monkeys treated with anti-BLyS or
anti-APRIL mAbs. To examine the pathogenic role of virus-transformed B cells, we 
infused EBV-transformed B lymphoblastic cell (BLC) lines presenting the
immunodominant MOG34-56 peptide. We observed in the recipients of MOG34-56 pulsed
BLC, but not in their fraternal siblings infused with non-pulsed BLC, activation 
of anti-MOG34-56 T cells and meningeal inflammation. Collectively, the data show 
that among CD20+ B cells, the herpesvirus-transformed subset has a particularly
important pathogenic role in the marmoset EAE model.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-013-9448-6 
PMID: 23508625  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

