

1584. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2013 Jun;8(3):715-26. doi: 10.1007/s11481-013-9450-z.
Epub 2013 Mar 17.

Oral treatment with the NADPH oxidase antagonist apocynin mitigates clinical and 
pathological features of parkinsonism in the MPTP marmoset model.

Philippens IH(1), Wubben JA, Finsen B, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
161, P.O. Box 3306, 2280 GH, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. philippens@bprc.nl

This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy of the NADPH oxidase inhibitor
apocynin, isolated as principal bioactive component from the medicinal plant
Picrorhiza kurroa, in a marmoset MPTP model of Parkinson's disease (PD). The
methoxy-substituted catechol apocynin has a similar structure as homovanillic
acid (HVA), a metabolite of dopamine (DA). Apocynin acquires its selective
inhibitory capacity of the reactive oxygen species generating NADPH oxidase via
metabolic activation by myeloperoxidase (MPO). As MPO is upregulated in activated
brain microglia cells of PD patients and in MPTP animal models, the conditions
for metabolic activation of apocynin and inhibition of microglia NADPH oxidase
are in place. Marmoset monkeys received oral apocynin (100 mg/kg; p.o.) (n = 5)
or Gum Arabica (controls; n = 5) three times daily until the end of the study,
starting 1 week before PD induction with MPTP (1 mg/kg s.c. for 8 days).
Parkinsonian symptoms, motor function, home-cage activity and body weight were
monitored to assess the disease development and severity. Post-mortem numbers of 
the tyrosine hydroxylase expressing DA neurons in the substantia nigra were
counted. During the MPTP injections, apocynin limited the body weight loss and
relieved parkinsonian symptoms compared to controls (Linear regression, P < 0.05)
indicating a reduction of disease progression. During the last test week,
apocynin also improved the hand-eye coordination performance compared with
vehicle treatment (resp. 39.3 ± 4.5 % and 17.7 ± 6.7 %; P = 0.048) and improved
the home cage activity with 32 % (P = 0.029), indicating anti-Parkinson efficacy.
Apocynin also increased the number of surviving DA neurons in MPTP-treated
marmosets with 8.5 % (P = 0.059), indicating a tendency towards a neuroprotective
efficacy. In conclusion, compensation for the loss of DA and its metabolite HVA
by apocynin mitigates the PD progression and limits the parkinsonian signs and
motor-function deterioration.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-013-9450-z 
PMID: 23504289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

