

1588. Front Neural Circuits. 2013 Mar 8;7:31. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00031.
eCollection 2013.

Postnatal development of layer III pyramidal cells in the primary visual,
inferior temporal, and prefrontal cortices of the marmoset.

Oga T(1), Aoi H, Sasaki T, Fujita I, Ichinohe N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan ; Laboratory
for Cognitive Neuroscience, Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka
University Toyonaka, Osaka, Japan.

Abnormalities in the processes of the generation and/or pruning of dendritic
spines have been implicated in several mental disorders including autism and
schizophrenia. We have chosen to examine the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
as a primate model to explore the processes. As a first step, we studied the
postnatal development of basal dendritic trees and spines of layer-III pyramidal 
cells in the primary visual sensory cortex (V1), a visual association cortex
(inferior temporal area, TE), and a prefrontal cortex (area 12, PFC). Basal
dendrites in all three areas were longer in adulthood compared with those in the 
newborn. In particular, rapid dendritic growth occurred in both TE and PFC around
the second postnatal month. This early growth spurt resulted in much larger
dendritic arbors in TE and PFC than in V1. The density of the spines along the
dendrites peaked at 3 months of age and declined afterwards in all three areas:
the degree of spine pruning being greater in V1 than in TE and PFC. The estimates
of the total numbers of spines in the basal dendrites of a single pyramidal cell 
were larger in TE and PFC than in V1 throughout development and peaked around 3
months after birth in all three areas. These developmental profiles of spines and
dendrites will help in determining assay points for the screening of molecules
involved in spinogenesis and pruning in the marmoset cortex.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2013.00031 
PMCID: PMC3592264
PMID: 23483808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

