

1589. J Neurosci Methods. 2013 Apr 30;215(1):121-31. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2013.02.011. Epub 2013 Mar 6.

Structural and quantitative neuroimaging of the common marmoset monkey using a
clinical MRI system.

Helms G(1), Garea-Rodriguez E, Schlumbohm C, König J, Dechent P, Fuchs E, Wilke
M.

Author information: 
(1)Göttingen University Medical Center, Department of Cognitive Neurology,
Göttingen, Germany. ghelms@gwdg.de

Purpose was to adapt structural and quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
from humans to common marmoset monkeys on a clinical 3T scanner and to
demonstrate the value for translational research. Three-dimensional T1- and
T2-weighted MRI and gradient echo-based multi-parameter mapping was performed on 
nine adult animals using a wrist coil. Structural MRI was applied in a model of
targeted experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Magnetization transfer 
(MT) and T1 parameter maps were used to depict axon-rich cortical areas. After
intraveneous triple dose of gadobutrol, the excretion half-time was determined
from consecutive measurements of R1=1/T1. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was
performed at 1mm resolution. At 0.4mm resolution, total measurement time (30 min)
was compatible with injection anesthesia, permitting rapid screening and frequent
follow-up. Structural MRI depicted the EAE lesion in white matter. Quantitative
values of T1, MT, and R2* in marmoset brain were comparable to humans, except for
smaller R2* indicating lower iron content in basal ganglia. The middle temporal
V5 area and the cortical layer IV could be identified, but were considerably
better delineated when averaging two images at 0.33 mm resolution (70 min). A
similar distribution volume (23%), but a shorter excretion half time than in
humans (30 min) was observed. DTI was feasible only in larger structures, such as
major axonal tracts. High-resolution MRI of common marmosets proved feasible
using clinical MRI hardware. A rapid 3D examination protocol was established for 
screening under injection anesthesia, thus avoiding the adverse effects of
inhalation anesthesia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2013.02.011 
PMID: 23473795  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

