

1592. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jun 1;246:47-54. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.01.047. Epub 2013 
Feb 27.

Do robots have goals? How agent cues influence action understanding in non-human 
primates.

Kupferberg A(1), Glasauer S, Burkart JM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Sensorimotor Research, Clinical Neurosciences,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Germany.

The capacity to understand goals and intentions emerges early and universally in 
humans and is a basic precondition for the interpretation and prediction of
others' actions, be it other humans, animals, or even robots. It is unclear,
however, how this goal attribution system is acquired, in particular with regard 
to the role of prior experience with the actor and visual characteristics that
are necessary. In four preferential looking time experiments we examined how
familiarity, appearance, and movement of different agents influence the
capability of marmosets to perceive the behavior of these agents as goal
directed. To this end we compared the monkeys' reactions to the same
goal-directed actions performed by four different agents: a human actor, a
conspecific, a monkey-like small robot, and a black box. The results showed that 
monkeys attributed goals to the human actor, the conspecific, and the robot, but 
not the box. Thus, the monkeys extended their capacity for goal attribution not
only to familiar agents, but also to agents not previously encountered, provided 
that they had some conspecific-like features. Our results suggest that in
non-human primates, the system for goal attribution does not require previous
experience with a specific agent or agent-category, as long as it exhibits
certain visual characteristics like face, body or legs. Furthermore, the results 
suggest that the capacity to attribute goals emerged very early during evolution 
and, at least in marmoset monkeys, does not necessarily require pre-learned
associations in order to fulfill its function when dealing with unfamiliar
agents.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.01.047 
PMID: 23454673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

