

1593. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e56296. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056296. Epub 2013 Feb 25.

Immune-related gene expression profile in laboratory common marmosets assessed by
an accurate quantitative real-time PCR using selected reference genes.

Fujii Y(1), Kitaura K, Matsutani T, Shirai K, Suzuki S, Takasaki T, Kumagai K,
Kametani Y, Shiina T, Takabayashi S, Katoh H, Hamada Y, Kurane I, Suzuki R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, Kanagawa, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is considered a novel experimental
animal model of non-human primates. However, due to antibody unavailability,
immunological and pathological studies have not been adequately conducted in
various disease models of common marmoset. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) is a
powerful tool to examine gene expression levels. Recent reports have shown that
selection of internal reference housekeeping genes are required for accurate
normalization of gene expression. To develop a reliable qPCR method in common
marmoset, we used geNorm applets to evaluate the expression stability of eight
candidate reference genes (GAPDH, ACTB, rRNA, B2M, UBC, HPRT, SDHA and TBP) in
various tissues from laboratory common marmosets. geNorm analysis showed that
GAPDH, ACTB, SDHA and TBP were generally ranked high in stability followed by
UBC. In contrast, HPRT, rRNA and B2M exhibited lower expression stability than
other genes in most tissues analyzed. Furthermore, by using the improved qPCR
with selected reference genes, we analyzed the expression levels of CD antigens
(CD3ε, CD4, CD8α and CD20) and cytokines (IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10,
IL-12β, IL-13, IFN-γ and TNF-α) in peripheral blood leukocytes and compared them 
between common marmosets and humans. The expression levels of CD4 and IL-4 were
lower in common marmosets than in humans whereas those of IL-10, IL-12β and IFN-γ
were higher in the common marmoset. The ratio of Th1-related gene expression
level to that of Th2-related genes was inverted in common marmosets. We confirmed
the inverted ratio of CD4 to CD8 in common marmosets by flow cytometric analysis.
Therefore, the difference in Th1/Th2 balance between common marmosets and humans 
may affect host defense and/or disease susceptibility, which should be carefully 
considered when using common marmoset as an experimental model for biomedical
research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056296 
PMCID: PMC3581525
PMID: 23451040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

