

1596. Toxicol Pathol. 2013;41(8):1106-15. doi: 10.1177/0192623313478206. Epub 2013 Feb 
27.

Morphological study of progressive glomerulonephropathy in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Yamada N(1), Sato J, Kanno T, Wako Y, Tsuchitani M.

Author information: 
(1)1Pathology Department, Kashima Laboratory, Nonclinical Research Center,
Mitsubishi Chemical Medience Corporation, Ibaraki, Japan.

Spontaneous progressive glomerulonephropathy often occurs in common marmosets.
However, there are few detailed reports concerning the age-related progressive
process of glomerular changes. We discuss the glomerular changes in the early
stage and the progressive changes in the advanced stage of nephropathy. We
investigated the kidneys of common marmosets (2-11 years old; 9 males and 12
females) using hematoxylin and eosin, periodic acid-Schiff, periodic
acid-methenamine-silver, and Masson's trichrome (MT) stains and a transmission
electron microscope. There was no remarkable change in urine cytology,
hematology, or blood chemistry. In the early stage of nephropathy, effacement of 
podocyte foot processes was observed ultrastructurally even though there were no 
marked glomerular lesions in the light microscopy. Subsequently, mesangial
proliferation occurred from the hilar to peripheral side along the tuft. In the
middle stage, red deposits were visible at the glomerular basement membrane (GBM)
and the mesangial region directly under the GBM (paramesangial area) with the MT 
stain. Electron dense deposits were seen at the same area. In the advanced stage,
the irregularity became prominent with or without dense deposits. It is necessary
to investigate in detail whether the change of podocyte in the early stage was
immuno-mediated or due to podocyte failure.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623313478206 
PMID: 23446006  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

