

1598. Int J Exp Pathol. 2013 Apr;94(2):156-68. doi: 10.1111/iep.12018. Epub 2013 Feb
27.

Experimental respiratory Marburg virus haemorrhagic fever infection in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Smither SJ(1), Nelson M, Eastaugh L, Laws TR, Taylor C, Smith SA, Salguero FJ,
Lever MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Dstl, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire,
UK.

Marburg virus causes a highly infectious and lethal haemorrhagic fever in
primates and may be exploited as a potential biothreat pathogen. To combat the
infection and threat of Marburg haemorrhagic fever, there is a need to develop
and license appropriate medical countermeasures. To determine whether the common 
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) would be an appropriate model to assess therapies
against Marburg haemorrhagic fever, initial susceptibility, lethality and
pathogenesis studies were performed. Low doses of virus, between 4 and 28 TCID50 
, were sufficient to cause a lethal, reproducible infection. Animals became
febrile between days 5 and 6, maintaining a high fever before succumbing to
disease between 8 and 11 days postchallenge. Typical signs of Marburg virus
infection were observed including haemorrhaging and a transient rash. In
pathogenesis studies, virus was isolated from the animals' lungs from day 3
postchallenge and from the liver, spleen and blood from day 5 postchallenge.
Early signs of histopathology were apparent in the kidney and liver from day 3.
The most striking features were observed in animals exhibiting severe clinical
signs, which included high viral titres in all organs, with the highest levels in
the blood, increased levels in liver function enzymes and blood clotting times,
decreased levels in platelets, multifocal moderate-to-severe hepatitis and
perivascular oedema.

© 2013 Crown copyright. International Journal of Experimental Pathology © 2013
International Journal of Experimental Pathology.

DOI: 10.1111/iep.12018 
PMCID: PMC3607144
PMID: 23441639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

