

1605. Anim Cogn. 2013 Sep;16(5):773-88. doi: 10.1007/s10071-013-0611-5. Epub 2013 Feb
15.

Facial expressions in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and their use by
conspecifics.

Kemp C(1), Kaplan G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Science and
Technology, Faculty of Arts and Science, University of New England, Armidale, NSW
2351, Australia. caralyn@kemputer.com.au

Facial expressions have been studied mainly in chimpanzees and have been shown to
be important social signals. In platyrrhine and strepsirrhine primates, it has
been doubted that facial expressions are differentiated enough, or the species
socially capable enough, for facial expressions to be part of their communication
system. However, in a series of experiments presenting olfactory, auditory and
visual stimuli, we found that common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) displayed an 
unexpected variety of facial expressions. Especially, olfactory and auditory
stimuli elicited obvious facial displays (such as disgust), some of which are
reported here for the first time. We asked whether specific facial responses to
food and predator-related stimuli might act as social signals to conspecifics. We
recorded two contrasting facial expressions (fear and pleasure) as separate sets 
of video clips and then presented these to cage mates of those marmosets shown in
the images, while tempting the subject with food. Results show that the
expression of a fearful face on screen significantly reduced time spent near the 
food bowl compared to the duration when a face showing pleasure was screened.
This responsiveness to a cage mate's facial expressions suggests that the
evolution of facial signals may have occurred much earlier in primate evolution
than had been thought.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-013-0611-5 
PMID: 23412667  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

