

1609. PLoS Pathog. 2013 Jan;9(1):e1003138. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003138. Epub 2013
Jan 31.

Novel marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of human Herpesvirus 6A and 6B
infections: immunologic, virologic and radiologic characterization.

Leibovitch E(1), Wohler JE, Cummings Macri SM, Motanic K, Harberts E, Gait√°n MI, 
Maggi P, Ellis M, Westmoreland S, Silva A, Reich DS, Jacobson S.

Author information: 
(1)Viral Immunology Section, Neuroimmunology Branch, NINDS/NIH, Bethesda,
Maryland, United States of America.

Human Herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) is a ubiquitous virus with an estimated
seroprevalence of 95% in the adult population. HHV-6 is associated with several
neurologic disorders, including multiple sclerosis, an inflammatory demyelinating
disease affecting the CNS. Animal models of HHV-6 infection would help clarify
its role in human disease but have been slow to develop because rodents lack
CD46, the receptor for cellular entry. Therefore, we investigated the effects of 
HHV-6 infections in a non-human primate, the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus. 
We inoculated a total of 12 marmosets with HHV-6A and HHV-6B intravenously and
HHV-6A intranasally. Animals were monitored for 25 weeks post-inoculation
clinically, immunologically and by MRI. Marmosets inoculated with HHV-6A
intravenously exhibited neurologic symptoms and generated virus-specific antibody
responses, while those inoculated intravenously with HHV-6B were asymptomatic and
generated comparatively lower antibody responses. Viral DNA was detected at a low
frequency in paraffin-embedded CNS tissue of a subset of marmosets inoculated
with HHV-6A and HHV-6B intravenously. When different routes of HHV-6A inoculation
were compared, intravenous inoculation resulted in virus-specific antibody
responses and infrequent detection of viral DNA in the periphery, while
intranasal inoculation resulted in negligible virus-specific antibody responses
and frequent detection of viral DNA in the periphery. Moreover, marmosets
inoculated with HHV-6A intravenously exhibited neurologic symptoms, while
marmosets inoculated with HHV-6A intranasally were asymptomatic. We demonstrate
that a marmoset model of HHV-6 infection can serve to further define the
contribution of this ubiquitous virus to human neurologic disorders.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003138 
PMCID: PMC3561285
PMID: 23382677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

