

1610. ILAR J. 2012;53(1):E31-42. doi: 10.1093/ilar.53.1.31.

Influence of animal species on secondary oxidant activation in serum exposed to
singlet oxygen.

Lhommeau I(1), Douillard S, Foursac A, Aillet L, Bigot E, Patrice T.

Author information: 
(1)Laser Department/Cancer Photobiology Laboratory, LaÃ«nnec Hospital, CHU de
Nantes, 44093, Nantes, France.

Singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) produced during inflammatory reactions and during
photodynamic therapy deactivates by producing in tissues secondary reactive
oxygen species and peroxides (SOS) as well as other degradation products. We
investigated the influence of animal species on SOS production secondary to
standardized (1)O(2) production by performing in vitro experiments with rose
bengal as the (1)O(2) producer, human serum (HS) as a control, sera derived from 
various animal species, and dichloro-dihydro-fluorescein as a nonspecific marker 
that becomes fluorescent when oxidized. The overall SOS production in HS from a
presumed healthy cohort of 53 donors (31 males and 22 females) gave a mean
"normal" value of 0.91 compared with a previous pool of 75 male sera samples. SOS
production after a photo-reaction was two or four times lower in HS than in fetal
calf serum or mice sera, respectively. In mice, the "nude" characteristic
increased even more than in the SOS production. In the Aves order, this
production appeared to be distributed randomly according to the number of
branches after the appearance of Amniotas. For primates, SOS production appeared 
to decrease linearly with the number of branches (R(2) = 0.98). Adding
hemolysates from complete bloods to the corresponding sera induced an increase in
SOS production in all species, proportional to the production in sera. These
findings should be kept in mind when interpreting results from studies of
secondary reactive oxygen species-induced pathways following (1)O(2) production, 
regardless of its origin.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.53.1.31 
PMID: 23382269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

