

1615. J Pharmacol Sci. 2013;121(2):131-7. Epub 2013 Jan 31.

Involvement of the autonomic nervous system in diurnal variation of corrected QT 
intervals in common marmosets.

Honda M(1), Komatsu R, Isobe T, Tabo M, Ishikawa T.

Author information: 
(1)Research Division, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Komakado, Gotemba City,
Shizuoka, Japan. hondamsk@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Our previous study has shown that the corrected QT (QTc) interval of the
electrocardiogram is longer during the dark period than during the light period
in telemetered common marmosets. In the present study, we investigated the
involvement of sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous activities in the changes 
of QTc interval associated with the light-dark cycle.Telemetry transmitters were 
implanted in six common marmosets to continuously record the electrocardiogram.
The QT intervals obtained were corrected for the RR interval by applying
individual probabilistic QT-rate correction formulae. Power spectral analysis of 
heart rate variability was performed to quantify each autonomic nervous function.
Changes in QTc intervals and autonomic nervous tones were associated with the
light-dark cycle. Parasympathetic nervous activity and QTc intervals
significantly increased by approximately 10 ms during the dark period.Atropine, a
muscarinic receptor antagonist, suppressed the increased parasympathetic tone and
QTc prolongation during the dark period. In contrast, propranolol, a
Î²-adrenoceptor antagonist, decreased the sympathetic activity and increased QTc
intervals during the light period. These results suggest that the parasympathetic
nerve functions prolong QTc intervals during the dark period, while the
sympathetic nerve functions shorten them during the light period in common
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.12230fp 
PMID: 23363785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

