

1616. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e54667. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054667. Epub 2013 Jan 15.

Diversity of retinal ganglion cells identified by transient GFP transfection in
organotypic tissue culture of adult marmoset monkey retina.

Moritoh S(1), Komatsu Y, Yamamori T, Koizumi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, 
Myodaiji, Okazaki, Japan.

The mammalian retina has more diversity of neurons than scientists had once
believed in order to establish complicated vision processing. In the monkey
retina, morphological diversity of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) besides dominant
midget and parasol cells has been suggested. However, characteristic subtypes of 
RGCs in other species such as bistratified direction-selective ganglion cells
(DSGC) have not yet been identified. Increasing interest has been shown in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkey as a "super-model" of neuroscientific
research. Here, we established organotypic tissue culture of the adult marmoset
monkey retina with particle-mediated gene transfer of GFP to survey the
morphological diversity of RGCs. We successfully incubated adult marmoset monkey 
retinas for 2 to 4 days ex vivo for transient expression of GFP. We
morphologically examined 121 RGCs out of more than 3240 GFP-transfected cells in 
5 retinas. Among them, we identified monostratified or broadly stratified
ganglion cells (midget, parasol, sparse, recursive, thorny, and broad thorny
ganglion cells), and bistratified ganglion cells (recursive, large, and small
bistratified ganglion cells [blue-ON/yellow-OFF-like]). By this survey, we also
found a candidate for bistratified DSGC whose dendrites were well cofasciculated 
with ChAT-positive starburst dendrites, costratified with ON and OFF ChAT bands, 
and had honeycomb-shaped dendritic arbors morphologically similar to those in
rabbits. Our genetic engineering method provides a new approach to future
investigation for morphological and functional diversity of RGCs in the monkey
retina.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054667 
PMCID: PMC3545886
PMID: 23336011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

