

1617. Am J Primatol. 2013 Mar;75(3):212-21. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22077. Epub 2012 Sep 19.

The role of androgenic steroids in shaping social phenotypes across the lifespan 
in male marmosets (Callithrix spp.).

French JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182,
USA. jfrench@unomaha.edu

Steroid hormones, particularly androgens and their metabolic derivatives, play a 
prominent role in shaping morphological, behavioral, and social phenotypes in
many organisms, including primates. This paper reviews the endocrine correlates
of development in male marmoset monkeys of the genus Callithrix (C. kuhlii and C.
geoffroyi). A lifespan developmental perspective is adopted, in which our
knowledge of hormone effects and profiles from prenatal periods through old age
is described. Prenatal steroid hormones appear to play a prominent role in
shaping behavioral and morphological phenotypes both the prepartum and in the
early postpartum periods of life, with exposure to high gestational androgen
associated with reduced fetal growth and lower levels of juvenile play. Early
postnatal elevations in androgen levels in males are ubiquitous in Callithrix,
and play a role in the further differentiation of male genital morphology and
behavior. Changes in androgens as males approach puberty are similar to the
conventional primate pattern, and unlike in female marmosets, gonadal
steroidogenesis appears to be independent of social context. In adults, androgens
appear to be an important modulator of paternal responsiveness to infants, since 
androgens are low at times when males typically engage in maximal levels of care,
and fathers that care for offspring extensively appear to have lower androgen
levels than fathers that are less involved in offspring care. Finally, aging in
male marmosets is associated with reduced androgen levels. This reduction appears
to be attributable to deficits in central mechanisms, since experimental
induction and inhibition of gonadal steroid synthesis and release appears to be
normal in older males. Together, these results suggest a complex picture of
lifetime involvement of androgens in shaping marmoset phenotypes.

Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22077 
PMCID: PMC4036459
PMID: 23335110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

