

162. Animals (Basel). 2021 Mar 30;11(4). pii: 963. doi: 10.3390/ani11040963.

Retrospective Analysis of the Effectiveness and Reversibility of Long-Acting
Contraception Etonogestrel (Implanon®) inCommon Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Roubos S(1), Louwerse AL(1), Langermans JAM(1)(2), Bakker J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
161, 2288GJ Rijswijk, The Netherlands.
(2)Department Population Health Sciences, Animals in Science and Society, Faculty
of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht University, 3584 CM Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Contraception is an important population control method for the colony management
of primates housed in captivity. Etonogestrel (ENG) implants (i.e., Implanon®)
are a widely used progestin-based contraceptive in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with the theoretical advantages of being reversible and long-acting.
However, no dose and efficacy data are available yet. Therefore, data from 52
adult female marmosets contracepted with ENG (one-fourth or one-third of an
implant) housed at the Biomedical Primate Research Centre (BPRC, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands) over the past 18 years were analyzed. Using an electronic database, 
a retrospective longitudinal cohort study was conducted to calculate the
reproductive data before, during and after ENG use. The data show an
effectiveness in preventing pregnancy of 99%. The implant was effective within
one week after insertion. Unintended pregnancies did occur, but in 60% of these
cases, the animals were already pregnant at the time of implant insertion. In
these cases, healthy offspring were born despite the use of the implant. No
stillbirths, neonatal deaths or maternal deaths could be linked to ENG use. After
implant removal, 83% of the animals delivered healthy offspring. No difference in
contraception efficacy was observed between the use of one-fourth or one-third of
an implant. ENG achieved a contraceptive protection exceeding 99% and was shown
to be reversible concerning fertility. To our knowledge, this is the first
detailed analysis on the use of ENG in marmosets.

DOI: 10.3390/ani11040963 
PMCID: PMC8066542
PMID: 33808451 

