

1620. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e52787. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052787. Epub 2012 Dec 27.

Pre-evaluated safe human iPSC-derived neural stem cells promote functional
recovery after spinal cord injury in common marmoset without tumorigenicity.

Kobayashi Y(1), Okada Y, Itakura G, Iwai H, Nishimura S, Yasuda A, Nori S,
Hikishima K, Konomi T, Fujiyoshi K, Tsuji O, Toyama Y, Yamanaka S, Nakamura M,
Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Murine and human iPSC-NS/PCs (induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neural
stem/progenitor cells) promote functional recovery following transplantation into
the injured spinal cord in rodents. However, for clinical applicability, it is
critical to obtain proof of the concept regarding the efficacy of grafted human
iPSC-NS/PCs (hiPSC-NS/PCs) for the repair of spinal cord injury (SCI) in a
non-human primate model. This study used a pre-evaluated "safe" hiPSC-NS/PC clone
and an adult common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) model of contusive SCI. SCI was
induced at the fifth cervical level (C5), followed by transplantation of
hiPSC-NS/PCs at 9 days after injury. Behavioral analyses were performed from the 
time of the initial injury until 12 weeks after SCI. Grafted hiPSC-NS/PCs
survived and differentiated into all three neural lineages. Furthermore,
transplantation of hiPSC-NS/PCs enhanced axonal sparing/regrowth and
angiogenesis, and prevented the demyelination after SCI compared with that in
vehicle control animals. Notably, no tumor formation occurred for at least 12
weeks after transplantation. Quantitative RT-PCR showed that mRNA expression
levels of human neurotrophic factors were significantly higher in cultured
hiPSC-NS/PCs than in human dermal fibroblasts (hDFs). Finally, behavioral tests
showed that hiPSC-NS/PCs promoted functional recovery after SCI in the common
marmoset. Taken together, these results indicate that pre-evaluated safe
hiPSC-NS/PCs are a potential source of cells for the treatment of SCI in the
clinic.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052787 
PMCID: PMC3531369
PMID: 23300777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

