

1630. Cell Reprogram. 2012 Dec;14(6):485-96. doi: 10.1089/cell.2012.0036.

Induced pluripotent stem cells generated from adult bone marrow-derived cells of 
the nonhuman primate (Callithrix jacchus) using a novel quad-cistronic and
excisable lentiviral vector.

Wiedemann A(1), Hemmer K, Bernemann I, Göhring G, Pogozhykh O, Figueiredo C,
Glage S, Schambach A, Schwamborn JC, Blasczyk R, Müller T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

Erratum in
    Cell Reprogram. 2013 Aug;15(4):337.

Regenerative medicine is in need of solid, large animal models as a link between 
rodents and humans to evaluate the functionality, immunogenicity, and clinical
safety of stem cell-derived cell types. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) 
is an excellent large animal model, genetically close to humans and readily used 
worldwide in clinical research. Until now, only two groups showed the generation 
of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from the common marmoset using
integrating retroviral vectors. Therefore, we reprogrammed bone marrow-derived
mesenchymal cells (MSCs) of adult marmosets in the presence of TAV, SB431542,
PD0325901, and ascorbic acid via a novel, excisable lentiviral spleen
focus-forming virus (SFFV)-driven quad-cistronic vector system (OCT3/4, KLF4,
SOX2, C-MYC). Endogenous pluripotency markers like OCT3/4, KLF4, SOX2, C-MYC,
LIN28, NANOG, and strong alkaline phosphatase signals were detected. Exogenous
genes were silenced and additionally the cassette was removed with a retroviral
Gag precursor system. The cell line could be cultured in absence of leukemia
inhibitory factor (LIF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and could be
successfully differentiated into embryoid bodies and teratomas with presence of
all three germ layers. Directed differentiation generated neural progenitors,
megakaryocytes, adipocytes, chondrocytes, and osteogenic cells. Thus, all
criteria for fully reprogrammed bone marrow-MSCs of a nonhuman primate with a
genetically sophisticated construct could be demonstrated. These cells will be a 
promising tool for future autologous transplantations.

DOI: 10.1089/cell.2012.0036 
PMID: 23194452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

