

1632. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Mar 1;240:91-4. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.11.018. Epub 2012
Nov 23.

Cannabinoid type 1 receptor ligands WIN 55,212-2 and AM 251 alter anxiety-like
behaviors of marmoset monkeys in an open-field test.

Cagni P(1), Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Cannabinoid type 1 receptors (CB1r) are an important modulatory site for
emotional behavior. However, little is known on the effects of CB1r ligands on
emotionality aspects of primates, even with their highly similar behavioral
response and receptor density/distribution as humans. Thus, we analyzed the
effects of the CB1r agonist WIN 55,212-2 (WIN; 1mg/kg) and the antagonist AM 251 
(AM; 2mg/kg), systemically administered prior to a single brief (15 min) exposure
to a novel open-field (OF) environment, on the behavior of individually tested
adult black tufted-ear marmosets. Both WIN- and AM-treated subjects, compared to 
vehicle controls, had significantly lower rates of long (contact) calls and
exploration, while higher levels of vigilance-related behaviors (scan/glance);
these are indicators of anxiolysis in this setup. Changes in locomotion were not 
detected. However, in the vehicle and AM-groups, sojourn in the peripheral zone
of the OF was significantly higher than in its central region. WIN-treated
marmosets spent an equivalent amount of time in both zones. Therefore, activation
or blockade CB1r function prior to a short and individual exposure to an
unfamiliar environment exerted a significant and complex influence on different
behavioral indicators of anxiety in these monkeys (i.e., a partially overlapping 
anxiolytic-like profile). AM 251, however, has no anxiolytic effect when the time
spent in the center of the OF is considered. This is a major difference when
compared to the WIN-treated group. Data were compared to the response profile
reported in other pre-clinical (rodent) and clinical studies.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.11.018 
PMID: 23183218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

