

1634. Development. 2012 Dec;139(24):4514-23. doi: 10.1242/dev.083279.

Importance of the pluripotency factor LIN28 in the mammalian nucleolus during
early embryonic development.

Vogt EJ(1), Meglicki M, Hartung KI, Borsuk E, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center, Stem Cell Biology Unit, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Goettingen,
Germany. evogt@gwdg.de

The maternal nucleolus is required for proper activation of the embryonic genome 
(EGA) and early embryonic development. Nucleologenesis is characterized by the
transformation of a nucleolar precursor body (NPB) to a mature nucleolus during
preimplantation development. However, the function of NPBs and the involved
molecular factors are unknown. We uncover a novel role for the pluripotency
factor LIN28, the biological significance of which was previously demonstrated in
the reprogramming of human somatic cells to induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells.
Here, we show that LIN28 accumulates at the NPB and the mature nucleolus in mouse
preimplantation embryos and embryonic stem cells (ESCs), where it colocalizes
with the nucleolar marker B23 (nucleophosmin 1). LIN28 has nucleolar localization
in non-human primate (NHP) preimplantation embryos, but is cytoplasmic in NHP
ESCs. Lin28 transcripts show a striking decline before mouse EGA, whereas LIN28
protein localizes to NPBs at the time of EGA. Following knockdown with a Lin28
morpholino, the majority of embryos arrest between the 2- and 4-cell stages and
never develop to morula or blastocyst. Lin28 morpholino-injected embryos arrested
at the 2-cell stage were not enriched with nucleophosmin at presumptive NPB
sites, indicating that functional NPBs were not assembled. Based on these
results, we propose that LIN28 is an essential factor of nucleologenesis during
early embryonic development.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.083279 
PMCID: PMC3912245
PMID: 23172912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

