

1635. Am J Primatol. 2013 Feb;75(2):153-60. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22093. Epub 2012 Nov 20.

Digestive efficiency mediated by serum calcium predicts bone mineral density in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jarcho MR(1), Power ML, Layne-Colon DG, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department, University of California, Davis, USA.
michael.jarcho@loras.edu

Two health problems have plagued captive common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
colonies for nearly as long as those colonies have existed: marmoset wasting
syndrome and metabolic bone disease. While marmoset wasting syndrome is
explicitly linked to nutrient malabsorption, we propose metabolic bone disease is
also linked to nutrient malabsorption, although indirectly. If animals experience
negative nutrient balance chronically, critical nutrients may be taken from
mineral stores such as the skeleton, thus leaving those stores depleted. We
indirectly tested this prediction through an initial investigation of digestive
efficiency, as measured by apparent energy digestibility, and serum parameters
known to play a part in metabolic bone mineral density of captive common marmoset
monkeys. In our initial study on 12 clinically healthy animals, we found a wide
range of digestive efficiencies, and subjects with lower digestive efficiency had
lower serum vitamin D despite having higher food intakes. A second experiment on 
23 subjects including several with suspected bone disease was undertaken to
measure digestive and serum parameters, with the addition of a measure of bone
mineral density by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Bone mineral density 
was positively associated with apparent digestibility of energy, vitamin D, and
serum calcium. Further, digestive efficiency was found to predict bone mineral
density when mediated by serum calcium. These data indicate that a poor ability
to digest and absorb nutrients leads to calcium and vitamin D insufficiency.
Vitamin D absorption may be particularly critical for indoor-housed animals, as
opposed to animals in a more natural setting, because vitamin D that would
otherwise be synthesized via exposure to sunlight must be absorbed from their
diet. If malabsorption persists, metabolic bone disease is a possible consequence
in common marmosets. These findings support our hypothesis that both wasting
syndrome and metabolic bone disease in captive common marmosets are consequences 
of inefficient nutrient absorption.

Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22093 
PMCID: PMC3527643
PMID: 23169342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

