

1648. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2013 Feb 1;128(1-2):155-60. doi:
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.08.020. Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Sensitization of hypervigilance effects of cocaine can be induced by NK3 receptor
activation in marmoset monkeys.

Melamed JL(1), de Souza Silva MA, Tomaz C, Müller CP, Huston JP, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Cocaine is a widely abused drug which can result in the establishment
of addiction. The neurokinin3-receptor (NK3-R) has been linked to cocaine
addiction by genetic, epigenetic, and pharmacological studies suggesting that a
cocaine-induced increase in NK3-R signaling may contribute to the establishment
of cocaine addiction-related behaviors.
METHODS: Here we measured cocaine-induced sensitization of vigilance- and
locomotor behaviors in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) in an open
field.
RESULTS: We found a sensitization of vigilance-related, but not locomotor
behaviors after repeated cocaine (7mg/kg, i.p.) treatment. There was a
cross-sensitization for scan frequency, but not of glance frequency, both
vigilance-related behaviors, after repeated treatment with the NK3-R agonist
senktide (0.2mg/kg, i.p.) given for 7 days, after a cocaine challenge (5mg/kg,
i.p.).
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that in marmoset monkeys, repeated cocaine
treatment leads to a sensitization of vigilance-related behaviors, which have a
prominent role in spontaneously expressed activities in this species, but not of 
locomotor activity. Repeated activation of NK3-Rs can mimic some of the
behavioral sensitization effect and may thus contribute to the establishment of
cocaine related behaviors.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.08.020 
PMID: 23062871  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

