

1649. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47344. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047344. Epub 2012 Oct 9.

Neurally mediated airway constriction in human and other species: a comparative
study using precision-cut lung slices (PCLS).

Schlepütz M(1), Rieg AD, Seehase S, Spillner J, Perez-Bouza A, Braunschweig T,
Schroeder T, Bernau M, Lambermont V, Schlumbohm C, Sewald K, Autschbach R, Braun 
A, Kramer BW, Uhlig S, Martin C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, RWTH Aachen University, Germany.

The peripheral airway innervation of the lower respiratory tract of mammals is
not completely functionally characterized. Recently, we have shown in rats that
precision-cut lung slices (PCLS) respond to electric field stimulation (EFS) and 
provide a useful model to study neural airway responses in distal airways. Since 
airway responses are known to exhibit considerable species differences, here we
examined the neural responses of PCLS prepared from mice, rats, guinea pigs,
sheep, marmosets and humans. Peripheral neurons were activated either by EFS or
by capsaicin. Bronchoconstriction in response to identical EFS conditions varied 
between species in magnitude. Frequency response curves did reveal further
species-dependent differences of nerve activation in PCLS. Atropine antagonized
the EFS-induced bronchoconstriction in human, guinea pig, sheep, rat and marmoset
PCLS, showing cholinergic responses. Capsaicin (10 µM) caused bronchoconstriction
in human (4 from 7) and guinea pig lungs only, indicating excitatory
non-adrenergic non-cholinergic responses (eNANC). However, this effect was
notably smaller in human responder (30 ± 7.1%) than in guinea pig (79 ± 5.1%)
PCLS. The transient receptor potential (TRP) channel blockers SKF96365 and
ruthenium red antagonized airway contractions after exposure to EFS or capsaicin 
in guinea pigs. In conclusion, the different species show distinct patterns of
nerve-mediated bronchoconstriction. In the most common experimental animals, i.e.
in mice and rats, these responses differ considerably from those in humans. On
the other hand, guinea pig and marmoset monkey mimic human responses well and may
thus serve as clinically relevant models to study neural airway responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047344 
PMCID: PMC3467211
PMID: 23056631  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

