

1652. Neuroscience. 2013 Jan 29;230:102-13. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.09.053.
Epub 2012 Oct 6.

Atlas of the developing brain of the marmoset monkey constructed using magnetic
resonance histology.

Hikishima K(1), Sawada K, Murayama AY, Komaki Y, Kawai K, Sato N, Inoue T, Itoh
T, Momoshima S, Iriki A, Okano HJ, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

The developmental anatomy of the brain is largely directed by neural-based cues. 
Despite this knowledge, the developmental trajectory of the primate brain has not
yet been fully characterized. To realize this goal, the advance in noninvasive
imaging methods and new brain atlases are essential. The common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate, is widely used in neuroscience
research. The recent introduction of transgenic techniques has enabled the
marmoset to be used as a genetically modifiable primate model for brain
development. Here, a magnetic resonance histology technique involving the use of 
ultra-high-resolution ex vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to
identify the developmental anatomy of the marmoset brain at different time points
from gestational week 8 through to birth. The data allowed the generation of a
multidimensional atlas of brain structures at different developmental stages.
Furthermore, in utero MRI techniques were developed to noninvasively monitor
brain development during the embryonic and fetal stages. The multidimensional
atlas and the MRI tools developed herein are anticipated to further our
understanding of the developing primate brain.

Copyright Â© 2012 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.09.053 
PMID: 23047019  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

