

1658. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Jul;65(5):667-76. doi: 10.1016/j.etp.2012.08.001. Epub
2012 Sep 15.

Differential renal glomerular changes induced by 5/6 nephrectomization between
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) and rats.

Suzuki Y(1), Yamaguchi I, Onoda N, Saito T, Myojo K, Imaizumi M, Takada C, Kimoto
N, Takaba K, Yamate J.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicological Research Laboratories, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8731, Japan.
yui.manabe@kyowa-kirin.co.jp

We have been investigating the relevance and availability of 5/6 nephrectomized
(Nx) common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) as a chronic renal failure
model. As a part of this investigation, renal glomerular changes in the Nx
marmosets were histopathologically and immunohistochemically evaluated, and then 
compared with those in 5/6 Nx SD rats. In the Nx marmosets, the blood and urine
parameters were elevated, excluding urine protein; histopathologically,
enlargement of Bowman's capsule and atrophy of the glomeruli were observed in all
animals, and other slight changes were also observed in 1 or 2 marmosets. There
were no significant changes in the mesangial matrix injury score, vimentin and
desmin positivity or the number of WT1 positive cells between the control and Nx 
marmoset groups. On the other hand, in the Nx rats, the blood and urine
parameters were elevated; histopathologically, various changes were observed in
the glomeruli, and the mesangial matrix injury score, vimentin and desmin
positivity were increased, while the number of WT1 positive cells was decreased; 
these histopathological impacts on the renal glomerulus at 13 weeks after Nx in
rats were more severe than that in the Nx marmosets. Because the glomerular
basement membrane (GBM) was much thicker in the marmosets than in the rats in
electron microscopy, the weaker pathological changes in the Nx marmosets might be
due to the GBM thickness. This study showed for the first time glomerular lesions
developed in the Nx marmosets, and the possible pathogenesis of the glomerular
lesions was discussed.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etp.2012.08.001 
PMID: 22986225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

