

1659. Biochimie. 2012 Dec;94(12):2716-22. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2012.08.010. Epub 2012 
Aug 21.

In vitro cell subtype-specific transduction of adeno-associated virus in mouse
and marmoset retinal explant culture.

Baba Y(1), Satoh S, Otsu M, Sasaki E, Okada T, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of Medical Science,
University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Shirokanedai, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, Japan.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a non-pathogenic human parvovirus that can infect
both non-proliferating and proliferating cells. Owing to its favorable safety
profile, AAV is regarded as suitable for clinical purposes such as gene therapy. 
The target cell types of AAV depend largely on the serotype. In the retina, AAV
has been used to introduce exogenous genes into photoreceptors, and
photoreceptor-specific enhancers/promoters are used in most cases. Therefore,
serotype specificity of AAV in retinal subtypes is unclear, particularly in
vitro. We compared its infection profile in mouse and monkey retinas using EGFP
under the control of the CAG promoter, which expressed the gene ubiquitously and 
strongly regardless of cell type. AAV1, 8, and 9 infected the horizontal cells
when an embryonic day-17 retina was used as a host. Amacrine cell was also a
major target of AAVs, and a small number of rod photoreceptors were infected.
When adult retinas were used as a host, the main target of AAV was Müller glia. A
small number of rod photoreceptors were also infected. In the adult common
marmoset retina, rod and cone photoreceptors were efficiently infected by AAV1,
8, and 9. A portion of the Müller glia and amacrine cells were also infected. In 
summary, the infection specificity of different AAV serotypes did not differ, but
was dependent on the stage of the host retina. In addition, infection
specificities differed between mature marmoset retinas and mature mouse retinas.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2012.08.010 
PMID: 22971462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

