

1660. J Physiol. 2012 Nov 15;590(22):5691-706. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.235010. Epub 
2012 Sep 10.

Adult-like action potential properties and abundant GABAergic synaptic responses 
in amygdala neurons from newborn marmosets.

Yamada D(1), Miyajima M, Ishibashi H, Wada K, Seki K, Sekiguchi M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Degenerative Neurological Diseases, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, 4-1-1 Ogawahigashi,
Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

The amygdala plays an important role in the processing of emotional events. This 
information processing is altered by development, but little is known about the
development of electrophysiological properties of neurons in the amygdala. We
studied the postnatal development of electrophysiological properties of neurons
in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from BLA pyramidal neurons in
brain slices prepared from developing and adult marmosets, and
electrophysiological properties known to change during development in rats were
analysed. Two passive electrical properties of the neuronal membrane - the input 
resistance (R(in)) and the membrane time constant () - significantly decreased
with postnatal development. In contrast, the action potential only showed a
slight decrease in duration during the first month of life, whereas the amplitude
did not change after birth. Passive electrical properties and action potentials
in neurons of 4-week-old marmosets were similar to those in neurons of 4-year-old
marmosets. The development of the action potential duration was not correlated
with the development of R(in) or , whereas the development of R(in) and was
correlated with each other. Abundant spontaneous and noradrenaline-induced
GABAergic currents were present immediately after birth and did not change during
postnatal development. These results suggest that newborn infant marmoset BLA
pyramidal neurons possess relatively mature action potentials and receive
vigorous GABAergic synaptic inputs, and that they acquire adult-like
electrophysiological properties by the fourth week of life.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.235010 
PMCID: PMC3528985
PMID: 22966158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

