

1664. Neuroimage. 2012 Dec;63(4):1841-53. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.08.040. Epub
2012 Aug 23.

Conditions for quantitative evaluation of injured spinal cord by in vivo
diffusion tensor imaging and tractography: preclinical longitudinal study in
common marmosets.

Konomi T(1), Fujiyoshi K, Hikishima K, Komaki Y, Tsuji O, Okano HJ, Toyama Y,
Okano H, Nakamura M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can detect hemorrhage, edema,
syrinx, and spinal cord atrophy, but not axonal disruption after spinal cord
injury (SCI). We previously demonstrated that diffusion tensor tractography (DTT)
could depict axonal disruption after hemisection SCI in common marmosets. In the 
present study, to determine the relationship between DTT results and functional
recovery after contusive SCI, we performed longitudinal DTT, behavioral, and
histological analyses before and after contusive SCI in common marmosets. By
comparing the tract fiber estimate depicted by DTT with neuronal fibers labeled
with RT97 and SMI-31, anti-neurofilament antibodies, we determined the optimal
fractional anisotropy (FA) threshold for fiber tracking to be 0.40. The ratio of 
the number of tract fiber estimates at the lesion site to the number before SCI, 
determined by DTT, was significantly correlated with the functional recovery
after SCI. Moreover, comparison of the longitudinal pre- and post-SCI FA and
axial diffusivity (λ(‖)) values revealed that they decreased after injury at the 
sites caudal to the lesion epicenter in the corticospinal tract and rostral to
the lesion epicenter in the dorsal column. The FA values, then, showed partial
recovery in the dorsal column. FA-value-oriented color DTT was used to represent 
axonal sparing or regeneration of the different tracts. These findings indicated 
that DTT analysis might be a versatile non-invasive tool for evaluating the
axonal disruption after SCI.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.08.040 
PMID: 22922169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

