

1668. Methods Mol Biol. 2012;925:21-48. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-011-3_2.

Derivation of induced pluripotent stem cells by retroviral gene transduction in
mammalian species.

Imamura M(1), Okuno H, Tomioka I, Kawamura Y, Lin ZY, Nakajima R, Akamatsu W,
Okano HJ, Matsuzaki Y, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Pluripotent stem cells can provide us with an enormous cell source for in vitro
model systems for development. In 2006, new methodology was designed to generate 
pluripotent stem cells directly from somatic cells, and these cells were named
induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). This method consists of technically
simple procedures: donor cell preparation, gene transduction, and isolation of
embryonic stem cell-like colonies. The iPSC technology enables cell biologists
not only to obtain pluripotent stem cells easily but also to study the
reprogramming events themselves. Here, we describe the protocols to generate
iPSCs from somatic origins by using conventional viral vectors. Specifically, we 
state the usage of three mammalian species: mouse, common marmoset, and human. As
mouse iPSC donors, fibroblasts are easily prepared, while mesenchymal stem cells 
are expected to give rise to highly reprogrammed iPSCs efficiently. Common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a nonhuman primate, represents an alternative
model to the usual laboratory animals. Finally, patient-specific human iPSCs give
us an opportunity to examine the pathology and mechanisms of dysregulated genomic
imprinting. The iPSC technology will serve as a valuable method for studying
genomic imprinting, and conversely, the insights from these studies will offer
valuable criteria to assess the potential of iPSCs.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-011-3_2 
PMID: 22907488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

