

1670. Zoo Biol. 2013 Mar;32(2):230-7. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21039. Epub 2012 Aug 13.

Species management benchmarking: outcomes over outputs in a changing operating
environment.

Hogg CJ(1), Hibbard C, Ford C, Embury A.

Author information: 
(1)Zoo and Aquarium Association Australasia - Sydney, Australia.
carolyn@zooaquarium.org.au

Species management has been utilized by the zoo and aquarium industry, since the 
mid-1990s, to ensure the ongoing genetic and demographic viability of
populations, which can be difficult to maintain in the ever-changing operating
environments of zoos. In 2009, the Zoo and Aquarium Association Australasia
reviewed their species management services, focusing on addressing issues that
had arisen as a result of the managed programs maturing and operating
environments evolving. In summary, the project examined resourcing, policies,
processes, and species to be managed. As a result, a benchmarking tool was
developed (Health Check Report, HCR), which evaluated the programs against a set 
of broad criteria. A comparison of managed programs (n = 98), between 2008 and
2011, was undertaken to ascertain the tool's effectiveness. There was a marked
decrease in programs that were designated as weak (37 down to 13); and an
increase in excellent programs (24 up to 49) between the 2 years. Further, there 
were significant improvements in the administration benchmarking area (submission
of reports, captive management plan development) across a number of taxon
advisory groups. This HCR comparison showed that a benchmarking tool enables a
program's performance to be quickly assessed and any remedial measures applied.
The increases observed in program health were mainly due to increased management 
goals being attained. The HCR will be an ongoing program, as the management of
the programs increases and goals are achieved, criteria will be refined to better
highlight ongoing issues and ways in which these can be resolved.

Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21039 
PMID: 22890874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

