

1671. Am J Primatol. 2012 Dec;74(12):1088-96. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22063. Epub 2012 Aug 13.

Contrast imaging ultrasound detects abnormalities in the marmoset ovary.

Hastings JM(1), Morris KD, Allan D, Wilson H, Millar RP, Fraser HM, Moran CM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Reproductive Health, Queen's Medical Research Institute,
Edinburgh, United Kingdom. juliemhastings@gmail.com

The development of a functional vascular tree within the primate ovary is
critical for reproductive health. To determine the efficacy of contrast agents to
image the microvascular environment within the primate ovary, contrast
ultrasonography was performed in six reproductive-aged female common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) during the late luteal phase of the cycle, following
injection of Sonovue™. Regions of interest (ROIs), representing the corpus luteum
(CL) and noncorpus luteum ovarian tissue (NCLOT), were selected during gray-scale
B-mode ultrasound imaging. The magnitude of backscatter intensity of CL and NCLOT
ROIs were calculated in XnView, post hoc: subsequent gamma-variate modeling was
implemented in Matlab to determine perfusion parameters. Histological analysis of
these ovaries revealed a total of 11 CL, nine of which were identified during
contrast ultrasonography. The median enhancement ratio was significantly
increased in the CL (5.54AU; 95% CI -2.21-68.71) compared to the NCLOT (2.82AU;
95% CI 2.73-15.06; P < 0.05). There was no difference in time parameters between 
the CL and NCLOT. An additional avascular ROI was identified in the ovary of
Animal 5, both histologically and by ultrasonography. This cystic ROI displayed a
markedly lower enhancement ratio (0.79AU) and higher time parameters than mean CL
and NCLOT, including time to peak and time to wash out. These data demonstrate,
for the first time, the ability of commercially available contrast agents, to
differentiate structures within the nonhuman primate ovary. Contrast-enhanced
ultrasonography has a promising future in reproductive medicine.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22063 
PMID: 22890799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

