

1672. Am J Primatol. 2013 Mar;75(3):202-11. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22061. Epub 2012 Aug 13.

Social effects via olfactory sensory stimuli on reproductive function and
dysfunction in cooperative breeding marmosets and tamarins.

Ziegler TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI 53715, USA. ziegler@primate.wisc.edu

Most primates are social species whose reproduction is influenced by their social
relationships. The cotton-top tamarin, Saguinus oedipus, and the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus, are cooperative breeding species where the family structure
alters reproductive function in many ways. While primates receive social effects 
on reproduction via all sensory stimuli, the marmosets and tamarins are
particularly influenced by olfactory/chemosensory stimuli. The olfactory sensory 
processing is the "social glue" that keeps the family together. This review
describes a number of studies using the marmosets and tamarins at the University 
of Wisconsin to demonstrate how odor cues are used for altering reproductive
function and dysfunction. Several key studies will be discussed to show the role 
of odor signaling of the female reproductive state. The suppressive effects of
odors are mediated by priming odors and can cause a suppressive influence on
ovulation in young females via their mother's scents. Additionally, odor cues
from the infant function as priming odors to ensure that fathers and mothers are 
present and receptive to their parental care duties. Neural pathways occur via
the processing of priming odors that consequently stimulate alterations in the
behavioral and endocrine response to the stimuli. The dynamics of the cooperative
breeding system ensure that offspring have essential needs met and that they
develop in a family environment. Olfactory communication plays a key role in
maintenance of the social system of Callitrichid monkeys.

Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22061 
PMCID: PMC3502670
PMID: 22890774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

