

1678. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2013 Jan;225(2):329-39. doi:
10.1007/s00213-012-2815-9. Epub 2012 Aug 7.

Evaluation of dopamine D₂/D₃ and serotonin 5-HT₂A receptor occupancy for a novel 
antipsychotic, lurasidone, in conscious common marmosets using small-animal
positron emission tomography.

Nakazawa S(1), Yokoyama C, Nishimura N, Horisawa T, Kawasaki A, Mizuma H, Doi H, 
Onoe H.

Author information: 
(1)RIKEN Center for Molecular Imaging Science, 6-7-3 Minatojima-Minamimachi,
Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0047, Japan.

RATIONALE: Lurasidone is a novel antipsychotic drug with potent binding affinity 
for dopamine D(2) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)(2A), 5-HT(7), and
5-HT(1A) receptors. Previous pharmacological studies have revealed that
lurasidone exhibits a preferable profile (potent antipsychotic activity and lower
incidence of catalepsy) to other antipsychotic drugs, although the contribution
of receptor subtypes to this profile remains unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To compare target engagements of lurasidone with those of an atypical
antipsychotic, olanzapine, we performed evaluation of dopamine D(2)/D(3) and
serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor occupancy in vivo by positron emission tomography
(PET) with conscious common marmosets.
METHODS: We measured brain receptor occupancies in conscious common marmosets
after oral administrations of lurasidone or olanzapine by PET with
[(11)C]raclopride and
[(11)C]R-(+)-α-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenylethyl)]-4-piperidine
methanol (MDL 100907) for D(2)/D(3) and 5-HT(2A) receptors, respectively.
RESULTS: Increases in brain D(2)/D(3) receptor occupancies of both lurasidone and
olanzapine, which reached >80 % at maximum, were observed in the striatum with
significant correlations to plasma drug levels. However, lurasidone showed lower 
5-HT(2A) receptor occupancy in the frontal cortex within the same dose range,
while olanzapine showed broadly comparable 5-HT(2A) and D(2)/D(3) receptor
occupancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with olanzapine, lurasidone preferentially binds to
D(2)/D(3) receptors rather than 5-HT(2A) receptors in common marmosets. These
results suggest that the contribution of in vivo 5-HT(2A) receptor blocking
activity to the pharmacological profile of lurasidone might differ from
olanzapine in terms of the low risk of extrapyramidal syndrome and efficacy
against negative symptoms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00213-012-2815-9 
PMID: 22868411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

