

1679. Am J Primatol. 2012 Nov;74(11):1044-53. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22058. Epub 2012 Aug 3.

Describing ovarian cycles, pregnancy characteristics, and the use of
contraception in female white-faced marmosets, Callithrix geoffroyi.

Mustoe AC(1), Jensen HA, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, USA.
amustoe@unomaha.edu

Endocrine data and characteristics of nonconceptive ovarian cycling and pregnancy
are limited within the genus Callithrix to the common marmoset (C. jacchus) and
Wied's black tufted-ear marmoset (C. kuhlii). This article presents patterns of
urinary pregnanediol-3-glucuronide (PdG) excretion, as determined by enzyme
immunoassay, throughout the course of ovarian cycling and pregnancy in
white-faced marmosets (C. geoffroyi). Furthermore, characteristics of
reproductive parameters including litter size, duration of gestation, maternal
age, and information about ovarian cycling following administration of
contraceptives are also described. A steep increase in PdG, an indication of
ovulation, characterizes normative ovarian cycles, with peak-to-peak intervals
between cycles being 27.82 ± 1.49 days in length. PdG excretion (μg/mg Cr) across
pregnancy peaked during the 1st and 2nd trimesters (1st = 20.71 ± 2.98, 2nd =
21.16 ± 2.60) and declined gradually to near preconception levels over the 3rd
trimester until parturition (3rd = 5.74 ± 1.60). Gestation lasted 148.55 ± 1.89
days. Most pregnancies (82.8%) resulted in an immediate postpartum ovulation
(PPO) of 17.45 ± 2.22 days with 58.3% of PPOs resulting in conception. No
differences in PdG excretion during the 1st trimester between full pregnancies
and miscarriages were found, and pregnancy characteristics such as litter size,
duration of gestation, and maternal age were not associated with PdG
concentrations. Administration of cloprostenol resulted in shorter peak-to-peak
cycle durations, but ovulation was detectable with similar concentrations of peak
PdG to a normal nonconceptive cycle. Conversely, medroxyprogesterone acetate
(DMPA) injections resulted in little to no PdG excretion across the ovarian
cycle. Both methods of contraception providing effective prevention of
conception. Overall, these results show that strong similarities in reproductive 
parameters persist within the genus Callithrix and to a lesser extent across the 
Callitrichidae family.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22058 
PMCID: PMC3460071
PMID: 22865351  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

