

168. Comp Med. 2021 Apr 1;71(2):148-151. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-20-000091. Epub 2021
Mar 22.

The Effect of Body Region on Hair Cortisol Concentration in Common Marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Bartling-John EE(1), Phillips KA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas.
(2)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas; Southwest
National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San
Antonio, Texas;, Email: kimberley.phillips@trinity.edu.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are a valuable research model for the study
of neuroscience and the biologic impact of aging due to their adaptivity,
physiologic characteristics, and ease of handling for experimental manipulations.
Quantification of cortisol in hair provides a noninvasive, retrospective
biomarker of hypothalamics-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity and information 
on animal wellbeing, including responses to environmental and social stimuli. To 
obtain valid and reliable measurements of long-term HPA activity, we investigated
the variability of cortisol concentration in the hair depending on the body
region of marmosets. Hair was collected from the back and tail of 9 adult common 
marmosets during annual health screenings (male n = 3; female n = 6) and these
samples were analyzed for cortisol via methanol extraction and enzyme
immunoassay. We found that hair cortisol concentration differed between the tail 
and back regions, with the tail samples having a significantly higher cortisol
concentration. These results indicate intraindividual and interindividual
comparisons of hair cortisol concentration should use hair obtained from the same
body region in marmosets.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-20-000091 
PMCID: PMC8063202
PMID: 33752781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

