

1680. J Toxicol Sci. 2012;37(4):749-63.

Increased expression of aquaporin-4 with methylmercury exposure in the brain of
the common marmoset.

Yamamoto M(1), Takeya M, Ikeshima-Kataoka H, Yasui M, Kawasaki Y, Shiraishi M,
Majima E, Shiraishi S, Uezono Y, Sasaki M, Eto K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, National Institute for Minamata Disease,
Kumamoto, Japan. yamamoto@nimd.go.jp

The relationship between methylmercury (MeHg) exposure and aquaporin (AQP)
expression in the brain is currently unknown. To investigate this, we used a
common marmoset model of acute MeHg exposure to examine AQP1, AQP4 and AQP11 gene
expression. MeHg (1.5 mg Hg/kg/day p.o.) was given to three marmosets for 14
days, followed by 14 days without. All treated marmosets showed slight akinesia
before sacrifice. In the frontal lobe, occipital lobe and cerebellum, total
mercury concentrations following MeHg administration were 26.7, 31.4, and 22.6
Âµg/g, respectively. Slight apoptosis was observed in the occipital lobe.
Immunohistochemistry showed increased expression of glial fibrillary acidic
protein, its mRNA and Iba1 with MeHg, indicating that neuronal injury activated
astrocytes and microglia. There was no significant difference between control and
MeHg-administered groups in AQP1 protein or AQP11 mRNA in the frontal lobe,
occipital lobe or cerebellum. The ratio of AQP4 mRNA expression in
MeHg-administered marmosets to the mean AQR4 expression in the controls (n = 3)
were 1.3, 1.5 and 1.2, 1.7, 1.9 and 1.5, and 1.5, 1.6 and 1.2 for the frontal
lobe, occipital lobe and cerebellum, respectively. Western blotting showed
significantly increased AQP4 protein in the occipital lobe and cerebellum with
MeHg administration, but no obvious up-regulation in the frontal lobe.
Immunofluorescence analysis with double staining revealed low AQP4 expression in 
the cell body of reactive astrocytes in the MeHg-administered group. These
results indicate that AQP4 expression might be stimulated by MeHg exposure in
astrocytes in the occipital lobe and cerebellum, suggesting a role for AQP4 in
MeHg neurotoxicity via astrocyte dysfunction.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.37.749 
PMID: 22863855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

