

1689. Int Immunol. 2012 Sep;24(9):593-603. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxs070. Epub 2012 Jul
25.

Double expression of CD34 and CD117 on bone marrow progenitors is a hallmark of
the development of functional mast cell of Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset).

Nunomura S(1), Shimada S, Kametani Y, Yamada Y, Yoshioka M, Suemizu H, Ozawa M,
Itoh T, Kono A, Suzuki R, Tani K, Ando K, Yagita H, Ra C, Habu S, Satake M,
Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Immunology and Allergology, Nihon University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Mast cells (MCs) are developed from hematopoietic progenitor cells and play an
important role in inflammation. Study of the kinetics of development and
accumulation of primate MC in vivo is crucial for the control of human
inflammatory diseases, as evolution of the immune system is quite rapid and
inflammation including MC response is considered to be different between mouse
and human. In the present study, we examined the development of MC from
hematopoietic progenitors of Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset), an
experimental animal of nonhuman primates. Bone marrow cells were fractionated for
the expression of CD34 and CD117 by cell sorting. MCs were developed in vitro or 
by transplanting the cells to NOD/SCID/IL-2γc knockout (NOG) mice. In vitro
culture of CD34(+)CD117(+) (double positive, DP) cells with stem cell factor
could generate high-affinity Fc epsilon receptor (FcεR)-expressing CD117(+) cells
with typical granules. The developed MC released β-hexosaminidase and produced
leukotriene C(4) after the stimulation of FcεRI. Transplantation of DP cells gave
rise to a marked expansion of CD34(-)CD45(+)CD117(+)FcεR(+) cells in NOG mice.
They expressed transcripts encoding chymase 1 and tryptase β. Differentiation of 
CD34(-)CD117(+) cells to MCs was relatively limited compared with the DP cells,
similarly to human MCs. These results suggest that this marmoset system provides 
a good model for human MC development.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxs070 
PMID: 22836021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

