

169. Brain Struct Funct. 2021 Dec;226(9):2763-2775. doi: 10.1007/s00429-021-02257-0.
Epub 2021 Mar 20.

Neurochemical changes in the primate lateral geniculate nucleus following lesions
of striate cortex in infancy and adulthood: implications for residual vision and 
blindsight.

Atapour N(1)(2), Worthy KH(3), Rosa MGP(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of
Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.
(2)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.
(3)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of
Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 3800, Australia.
(4)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Following lesions of the primary visual cortex (V1), the lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) undergoes substantial cell loss due to retrograde degeneration.
However, visually responsive neurons remain in the degenerated sector of LGN, and
these have been implicated in mediation of residual visual capacities that remain
within the affected sectors of the visual field. Using immunohistochemistry, we
compared the neurochemical characteristics of LGN neurons in V1-lesioned marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with those of non-lesioned control animals. We found
that GABAergic neurons form approximately 6.5% of the neuronal population in the 
normal LGN, where most of these cells express the calcium-binding protein
parvalbumin. Following long-term V1 lesions in adult monkeys, we observed a
marked increase (~ sevenfold) in the proportion of GABA-expressing neurons in the
degenerated sector of the LGN, indicating that GABAergic cells are less affected 
by retrograde degeneration in comparison with magno- and parvocellular projection
neurons. In addition, following early postnatal V1 lesions and survival into
adulthood, we found widespread expression of GABA in putative projection neurons,
even outside the degenerated sectors (lesion projection zones). Our findings show
that changes in the ratio of GABAergic neurons in LGN need to be taken into
account in the interpretation of the mechanisms of visual abilities that survive 
V1 lesions in primates.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany,
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-021-02257-0 
PMID: 33743077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

