

1690. Am J Primatol. 2012 Nov;74(11):1028-34. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22056. Epub 2012 Jul 25.

Monomorphic region of the serotonin transporter promoter gene in New World
monkeys.

Pascale E(1), Lucarelli M, Passarelli F, Butler RH, Tamellini A, Addessi E,
Visalberghi E, Manciocco A, Vitale A, Laviola G.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze e Biotecnologie Medico-Chirurgiche, Sapienza
Università di Roma, Italy. esterina.pascale@uniroma1.it

Genetic variation in the human serotonin system has long been studied because of 
its functional consequences and links to various neuropsychiatric and
behavior-related disorders. Among non-human primates, the common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) and tufted capuchins monkeys (Cebus apella) are becoming
increasingly used as models to study the effects of genes, environments, and
their interaction on physiology and complex behavior. In order to investigate the
independent functions of and potential interactions between serotonin-related
genes, anxiety and neuropsychiatric disorders, we analyzed the presence and
variability of the serotonin transporter gene-linked polymorphic region
(5-HTTLPR) in marmoset and capuchin monkeys. By PCR and using heterologous
primers from the human sequence, we amplified and then sequenced the
corresponding 5-HTT region in marmosets and capuchins. The resulting data
revealed the presence of a tandem repeat sequence similar to that described in
humans, but unlike humans and other Old World primates, no variable length
alleles were detected in these New World monkeys, suggesting that if serotonin
transporter is involved in modulating behavior in these animals it does so
through different molecular mechanisms.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22056 
PMID: 22833283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

