

1694. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2012 Aug;71(8):716-28.

B-cell depletion abrogates T cell-mediated demyelination in an
antibody-nondependent common marmoset experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
model.

Jagessar SA(1), Heijmans N, Bauer J, Blezer EL, Laman JD, Hellings N, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.

CD20-positive B-cell depletion is a highly promising treatment for multiple
sclerosis (MS), but the mechanisms underlying therapeutic effects are poorly
understood. B cells are thought to contribute to MS pathogenesis by producing
autoantibodies that amplify demyelination via opsonization of myelin. To analyze 
autoantibody-nondependent functions of B cells in an animal model of MS, we used 
a novel T cell-driven experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). In this model, demyelination of brain and 
spinal cord white and gray matter and the ensuing neurological deficits are
induced by immunization with peptide 34 to 56 of myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG34-56) in incomplete Freund's adjuvant. Although autoantibodies 
do not have a detectable pathogeniccontribution in the model, depletion of B
cells with monoclonal antibody 7D8, a human IgG1Îº monoclonal antibody against
human CD20, suppressed clinical and pathological EAE. In B cell-depleted monkeys,
the activation of peptide-specific Th17-producing and cytotoxic T cells, which in
previous studies were found to play an essential role in disease induction, was
impaired. Thus, we demonstrate a critical antibody-nondependent role for B cells 
in EAE, that is, the activation of pathogenic T cells.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e3182622691 
PMID: 22805775  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

