

1695. Cereb Cortex. 2013 Sep;23(9):2136-45. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs196. Epub 2012 Jul
12.

Linkage between the midline cortical serotonergic system and social behavior
traits: positron emission tomography studies of common marmosets.

Yokoyama C(1), Kawasaki A, Hayashi T, Onoe H.

Author information: 
(1)Functional Probe Research Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Molecular Imaging
Science, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0047, Japan. chihiro@riken.jp

Serotonin is known to play an important role not only in regulating emotional
behaviors, but also in the formation of social behavior traits. To determine the 
location and serotonin function of brain areas involved in social behavior
traits, we tested serotonin transporter (SERT) binding and neural activity linked
with the social behaviors of common marmosets with positron emission tomography
using [(11)C]-3-amino-4-(2-dimetylaminomethyl-phenylsulfanyl)-benzonitrile and
[(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose, respectively. Factor analysis of behavioral measures
during a direct encounter between unfamiliar adult males identified three classes
of social behavioral traits: (1) aggressive, (2) anxious, and (3) unfriendly
(opposite of friendly). Voxel-based analysis revealed a significant association
between SERT binding with the social behavioral traits in the midline cortical
subregions. Aggressive and friendly traits are localized to the posterior
cingulate cortex, and the anxious trait is localized to the anterior cingulate
cortex. In addition, neural activity and functional connectivity of the posterior
and anterior cingulate cortices appear to be altered depending on the social
situation. These results suggest that the midline cortical serotonergic system is
crucial in social behavior traits and its subregions are functionally segregated 
in socio-emotional processing.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs196 
PMID: 22791806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

