

1696. Toxicol Pathol. 2013 Jan;41(1):80-5. doi: 10.1177/0192623312452491. Epub 2012 Jul
10.

Inflammatory fibroid polyp in the duodenum of a common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Yokouchi Y(1), Imaoka M, Sayama A, Jindo T, Sanbuissho A.

Author information: 
(1)Medicinal Safety Research Laboratories, Daiichi-Sankyo Co., Ltd., Tokyo,
Japan. yokouchi.yusuke.uw@daiichisankyo.co.jp

A 32-month-old male common marmoset had a firm and white-colored mass in the
duodenal wall. The cut surface was smooth and grayish white in color.
Histologically, the mass consisted of a proliferation of spindle cells with an
oval to spindle-shaped nucleus and scant eosinophilic cytoplasm in a loose myxoid
or fibrotic background. Most of the lesion displayed no specific growth pattern
whereas some of the cells concentrated around the vessels and created an
onion-bulb structure. Additionally, marked inflammatory cellular infiltration,
mainly eosinophils, was observed throughout the lesion. Immunohistochemically,
the spindle cells were positive for vimentin, Î±-smooth muscle actin, fascin, and 
cyclin D1, and negative for S-100, factor VIII-related antigen, and c-kit. These 
histological and immunohistochemical features did not meet any differential
diagnoses such as gastrointestinal stromal tumor, inflammatory myofibroblastic
tumor, solitary fibrous tumor/hemangiopericytoma, smooth muscle tumor,
schwannoma, and hemangiosarcoma. Collectively, the authors diagnosed the mass as 
a lesion that corresponded to an inflammatory fibroid polyp (IFP) in humans. IFP 
is defined as a mesenchymal proliferation composed of spindle stromal cells,
small blood vessels, and inflammatory cells, particularly eosinophils, and is
currently classified as a nonneoplastic lesion. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the first case of spontaneous IFP in nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1177/0192623312452491 
PMID: 22786945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

