

1697. J Comp Neurol. 2012 Sep 1;520(13):2941-56. doi: 10.1002/cne.23077.

Discrete ephrin-B1 expression by specific layers of the primate
retinogeniculostriate system continues throughout postnatal and adult life.

Teo L(1), Homman-Ludiye J, Rodger J, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University Clayton,
Victoria, 3800, Australia.

The molecular guidance cue ephrin-B1 has traditionally been associated with the
early development of the visual system, encompassing retinocollicular mapping as 
well as development and maturation of synapses. Although little is known about
its role in the visual system during the postnatal period and in adulthood,
recent studies have demonstrated the expression of ephrin-B1 in the adult mouse
brain, indicating a sustained role beyond early development. Therefore, we
explored the spatiotemporal expression of ephrin-B1 in the postnatal and adult
nonhuman primate visual system and demonstrated that a modulated expression
continued following birth into adulthood in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) 
and primary visual cortex (V1, striate cortex). This occurred in the layers
involved in bidirectional geniculostriate communication: layers 3Bβ, 4, and 6 of 
V1 and the parvocellular (P) and magnocellular (M) layers of the LGN.
Furthermore, discrete gradients between the ipsi- and contralateral inputs of the
P and M layers of the LGN evolved between 1 month following birth and the start
of the critical period (3 months), and continued into adulthood. We also detected
the postsynaptic expression of ephrin-B1 by excitatory cells in adult LGN and V1 
and a subset of interneurons in adult V1, suggestive of a more global rather than
subtype-specific role. Together these results suggest a possible role for
ephrin-B1 in the maturation of the primate retinogeniculostriate pathway
throughout postnatal life, extending into adulthood.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.23077 
PMID: 22778007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

