

1698. Placenta. 2012 Nov;33 Suppl 2:e35-9. doi: 10.1016/j.placenta.2012.06.008. Epub
2012 Jul 7.

Toward a nonhuman primate model of fetal programming: phenotypic plasticity of
the common marmoset fetoplacental complex.

Rutherford JN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Biology, College of Dentistry, Comparative Primate Biology 
Laboratory, University of Illinois at Chicago, 801 S. Paulina Street, M/C 690,
Chicago, IL 60612, USA. ruther4d@uic.edu

Nonhuman primates offer unique opportunities as animal models in the study of
developmental programming and the role of the placenta in developmental
processes. All primates share fundamental similarities in life history and
reproductive biology. Thus, insights gleaned from studies of nonhuman primates
have a higher degree of biological salience to human biology than do studies of
rodents or agricultural animals. The common marmoset monkey is a small-bodied
primate from South America that produces litters of dizygotic fetuses that share 
a single placental mass. This natural variation allows us to model different
intrauterine conditions and associated fetoplacental phenotypes. The marmoset
placenta is phenotypically plastic according to litter size. Triplet litters are 
characterized by low individual fetal weights and significantly more efficient
placentas and attendant alterations to the microscopic architecture and endocrine
function, thus modeling a nutrient restricted intrauterine environment.
Consistent with this model, triplet neonates experience a higher risk of
perinatal mortality and an increased likelihood of elevated adult weight. Recent 
evidence has shown that the intrauterine experience of females has an impact on
their own pregnancy outcomes in adulthood: triplet females experience
significantly greater pregnancy loss than do twin females. The marmoset monkey
thus represents a potential powerful nonhuman primate model of multiple
pregnancies, restrictive prenatal experiences, and differential reproductive
outcomes in adulthood, which may have important implications for studying the
impact of in vitro fertilization on adult reproductive health. It is still too
early to determine exactly what developmental pathways lead to this disparity or 
what specific role the placenta plays; future work on this front will be critical
to establish the marmoset as an important model of fetal programming of
reproductive function in adulthood and across generations.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.placenta.2012.06.008 
PMCID: PMC3482116
PMID: 22776637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

