

1709. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2013 Jan;38(1):145-54. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2012.05.011. Epub 2012 Jun 21.

Chronic systemic administration of serotonergic ligands flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
enhance HPA axis responses to restraint in female marmosets.

Aubert Y(1), Bohl MA, Lange JR, Diol NR, Allers KA, Sommer B, Datson NA, Abbott
DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
WI, USA. auberty@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl

BACKGROUND: Flibanserin, a novel serotonin (5-HT)(1A) agonist and 5-HT(2A)
antagonist, has been shown to increase sexual desire and reduce distress in women
with Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder (HSDD). In marmoset monkeys, flibanserin
has demonstrated pro-social effects on male-female pairmates, while the classic
5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT suppresses female sexual behavior and increases
aggressive interactions between pairmates. Activation of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A)
receptors is known to stimulate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
This study aims to characterize the effects of repeated flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
administration on the marmoset HPA axis and to elucidate endocrine correlates of 
altered marmoset pair behavior.
METHODS: Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol were examined at
baseline and during 5-HT(1A) agonist and restraint challenges in 8 female
marmoset monkeys receiving daily flibanserin (15mg/kg) and an additional 8 female
marmosets receiving 8-OH-DPAT (0.1mg/kg) for 15-16weeks. Corresponding vehicle
treatments were administered in a counterbalanced, within-subject design. All
females were housed in stable male-female pairs. Treatment-induced changes in
ACTH and cortisol levels were correlated with previously assessed marmoset pair
behavior.
RESULTS: While morning basal cortisol levels and HPA responses to a 5-HT(1A)
agonist challenge were not altered by chronic flibanserin or 8-OH-DPAT, both
treatments increased the responsiveness of the marmoset HPA axis to restraint.
Enhanced ACTH responses to restraint correlated with reduced sexual receptivity
and increased aggression in 8-OH-DPAT-, but not in flibanserin-treated female
marmosets.
CONCLUSIONS: Unaltered HPA responses to a 5-HT(1A) agonist challenge after
chronic flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT treatments indicate little or no
de-sensitization of the HPA axis to repeated 5-HT(1A) manipulation. Chronic
8-OH-DPAT, but not flibanserin, leads to aggravated ACTH responses to stress that
may contribute to anti-sexual and anti-social behavior between 8-OH-DPAT-treated 
females and their male pairmates. Despite similar flibanserin and 8-OH-DPAT
induced ACTH responses to restraint stress, flibanserin-treated females show
unchanged cortisol profiles. This is possibly due to flibanserin's regional
selectivity in 5-HT(1A) activation and concurrent 5-HT(2A) inhibition. The
contrasting restraint-related cortisol responses emulate contrasting behavioral
phenotypes of diminished pair-bond of 8-OH-DPAT-treated females compared to the
more affiliative pair-bond of flibanserin-treated females.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2012.05.011 
PMID: 22727480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

