

171. J Vet Med Sci. 2021 May 9;83(5):784-792. doi: 10.1292/jvms.20-0532. Epub 2021 Mar
18.

Reduced differentiation of intestinal epithelial cells in wasting marmoset
syndrome.

Niimi K(1), Takahashi E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Support Unit for Animal Resources Development, Research Resources Division,
RIKEN Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Research Resources Division, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, 2-1 Hirosawa,
Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

Wasting marmoset syndrome (WMS) is a serious disease in captive common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) colonies. Because of the high mortality rates, elucidation
of the underlying mechanisms is essential. In this study, we compared the
histopathology, the number of each epithelial cell in the jejunum and colon, and 
the expression patterns of some molecular markers between healthy and
WMS-affected marmosets. Atrophy of villi in the jejunum and mononuclear cell
infiltration in the lamina propria were observed in the intestinal tract of
WMS-affected marmosets. Although the numbers of transient amplifying cells and
tuft cells were increased, the number of goblet cells was obviously decreased in 
the jejunum and colon of WMS-affected marmosets compared to healthy marmosets. In
addition, the number of enterocytes in the jejunum was decreased in WMS animals. 
There was no apparent difference in the numbers of stem cells, enteroendocrine
cells, or Paneth cells. The expression of β-catenin and Tcf7l2 was increased in
WMS, and the co-existence of β-catenin and Tcf7l2/Cyclin D1 was observed around
the crypts in WMS-affected marmosets. These findings suggest that cell
proliferation continues, but cell differentiation is halted in the intestinal
tract due to the enhanced β-catenin/Tcf7l2/Cyclin D1signaling pathway in WMS,
which results in malfunction of the villus and mucosa.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.20-0532 
PMCID: PMC8182325
PMID: 33731497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

