

1710. Ann Anat. 2013 Jan;195(1):32-8. doi: 10.1016/j.aanat.2012.04.005. Epub 2012 May
17.

Mediodorsal thalamic nucleus receives a direct retinal input in marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus): a subunit B cholera toxin study.

de Sousa TB(1), de Santana MA, Silva Ade M, Guzen FP, Oliveira FG, Cavalcante JC,
Cavalcante Jde S, Costa MS, Nascimento ES Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphology/Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Biosciences Center,
Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, RN, Brazil. expeditojr@cb.ufrn.br

The mediodorsal thalamic nucleus is a prominent nucleus in the thalamus,
positioned lateral to the midline nuclei and medial to the intralaminar thalamic 
complex in the dorsal thalamus. Several studies identify the mediodorsal thalamic
nucleus as a key structure in learning and memory, as well as in emotional
mechanisms and alertness due to reciprocal connections with the limbic system and
prefrontal cortex. Fibers from the retina to the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus
have recently been described for the first time in a crepuscular rodent,
suggesting a possible regulation of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus by visual
activity. The present study shows retinal afferents in the mediodorsal thalamic
nucleus of a new world primate, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), using B
subunit of cholera toxin (CTb) as an anterograde tracer. A small population of
labeled retinofugal axonal arborizations is consistently labeled in small domains
of the medial and lateral periphery of the caudal half of the mediodorsal
nucleus. Retinal projections in the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus are exclusively 
contralateral and the morphology of the afferent endings was examined. Although
the functional significance of this projection remains unknown, this
retina-mediodorsal thalamic nucleus pathway may be involved in a wide possibility
of functional implications.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aanat.2012.04.005 
PMID: 22726524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

