

1715. Mol Hum Reprod. 2012 Oct;18(10):477-88. Epub 2012 Jun 11.

The pluripotency factor LIN28 in monkey and human testes: a marker for
spermatogonial stem cells?

Aeckerle N(1), Eildermann K, Drummer C, Ehmcke J, Schweyer S, Lerchl A, Bergmann 
M, Kliesch S, Gromoll J, Schlatt S, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Kellnerweg 4, D-37077 GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Mammalian spermatogenesis is maintained by spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs).
However, since evidentiary assays and unequivocal markers are still missing in
non-human primates (NHPs) and man, the identity of primate SSCs is unknown. In
contrast, in mice, germ cell transplantation studies have functionally
demonstrated the presence of SSCs. LIN28 is an RNA-binding pluripotent stem cell 
factor, which is also strongly expressed in undifferentiated mouse spermatogonia.
By contrast, two recent reports indicated that LIN28 is completely absent from
adult human testes. Here, we analyzed LIN28 expression in marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) and human testes during development and adulthood and
compared it with that in mice. In the marmoset, LIN28 was strongly expressed in
migratory primordial germ cells and gonocytes. Strikingly, we found a rare
LIN28-positive subpopulation of spermatogonia also in adult marmoset testis. This
was corroborated by western blotting and quantitative RT-PCR. Importantly, in
contrast to previous publications, we found LIN28-positive spermatogonia also in 
normal adult human and additional adult NHP testes. Some seasonal breeders
exhibit a degenerated (involuted) germinal epithelium consisting only of Sertoli 
cells and SSCs during their non-breeding season. The latter re-initiate
spermatogenesis prior to the next breeding-season. Fully involuted testes from a 
seasonal hamster and NHP (Lemur catta) exhibited numerous LIN28-positive
spermatogonia, indicating an SSC identity of the labeled cells. We conclude that 
LIN28 is differentially expressed in mouse and NHP spermatogonia and might be a
marker for a rare SSC population in NHPs and man. Further characterization of the
LIN28-positive population is required.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gas025 
PMCID: PMC3457707
PMID: 22689537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

