

1716. J Physiol. 2012 Aug 15;590(16):4061-77. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.230409. Epub
2012 Jun 11.

Colour and pattern selectivity of receptive fields in superior colliculus of
marmoset monkeys.

Tailby C(1), Cheong SK, Pietersen AN, Solomon SG, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute C09, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

The main subcortical visual targets of retinal output neurones (ganglion cells)
are the parvocellular and magnocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus (LGN) in the thalamus. In addition, a small and heterogeneous collection 
of ganglion cell axons projects to the koniocellular layers of the LGN, to the
superior colliculus (SC), and to other subcortical targets. The functional
(receptive field) properties and target specificity of these non-parvocellular,
non-magnocellular populations remain poorly understood. It is known that one
population of koniocellular layer cells in the LGN (blue-On cells) receives
dominant functional input from short-wavelength sensitive (S or ‘blue') cones.
Here we asked whether SC neurones also receive S cone inputs. We made
extracellular recordings from single neurones (n = 38) in the SC of anaesthetised
marmoset monkeys. Responses to drifting and flashed gratings providing defined
levels of cone contrast were measured. The SC receptive fields we recorded were
often binocular, showed ‘complex cell' like responses (On–Off responses), strong 
bandpass spatial frequency tuning, direction selectivity, and many showed strong 
and rapid habituation to repeatedly presented stimuli. We found no evidence for
dominant S cone input to any SC neurone recorded. These data suggest that S cone 
signals may reach cortical pathways for colour vision exclusively through the
koniocellular division of the lateral geniculate nucleus.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2012.230409 
PMCID: PMC3476648
PMID: 22687612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

