

1717. J Neurosci. 2012 Jun 6;32(23):7881-94. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4832-11.2012.

Color blobs in cortical areas V1 and V2 of the new world monkey Callithrix
jacchus, revealed by non-differential optical imaging.

Valverde Salzmann MF(1), Bartels A, Logothetis NK, Schüz A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology of Cognitive Processes, Max Planck Institute for
Biological Cybernetics, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.
matthias.valverde@tuebingen.mpg.de

Color vision is reserved to only few mammals, such as Old World monkeys and
humans. Most Old World monkeys are trichromats. Among them, macaques were shown
to exhibit functional domains of color-selectivity, in areas V1 and V2 of the
visual cortex. Such color domains have not yet been shown in New World monkeys.
In marmosets a sex-linked dichotomy results in dichromatic and trichromatic
genotypes, rendering most male marmosets color-blind. Here we used trichromatic
female marmosets to examine the intrinsic signal response in V1 and V2 to
chromatic and achromatic stimuli, using optical imaging. To activate the
subsystems individually, we used spatially homogeneous isoluminant color opponent
(red/green, blue/yellow) and hue versus achromatic flicker (red/gray, green/gray,
blue/gray, yellow/gray), as well as achromatic luminance flicker. In contrast to 
previous optical imaging studies in marmosets, we find clearly segregated color
domains, similar to those seen in macaques. Red/green and red/gray flicker were
found to be the appropriate stimulus for revealing color domains in
single-condition maps. Blue/gray and blue/yellow flicker stimuli resulted in
faint patch-patterns. A recently described multimodal vessel mapping approach
allowed for an accurate alignment of the functional and anatomical datasets.
Color domains were tightly colocalized with cytochrome oxidase blobs in V1 and
with thin stripes in V2. Thus, our findings are in accord with 2-Deoxy-D-glucose 
studies performed in V1 of macaques and studies on color representation in V2.
Our results suggest a similar organization of early cortical color processing in 
trichromats of both Old World and New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4832-11.2012 
PMCID: PMC6620961
PMID: 22674264  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

