

1722. Eur J Neurosci. 2012 Jul;36(1):2063-76. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08121.x.
Epub 2012 May 16.

Breaking camouflage: responses of neurons in the middle temporal area to stimuli 
defined by coherent motion.

Lui LL(1), Dobiecki AE, Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
leo.lui@monash.edu

Camouflaged animals remain inconspicuous only insofar as they remain static. This
demonstrates that motion is a powerful cue for figure-ground segregation,
allowing detection of moving objects even when their luminance and texture
characteristics are matched to the background. We investigated the neural
processes underlying this phenomenon by testing the responses of neurons in the
middle temporal area (MT) to 'camouflaged' bars, which were rendered visible by
motion. These responses were compared with those elicited by 'solid' bars, which 
also differed from background in terms of their mean luminance. Most MT neurons
responded strongly to camouflaged bars, and signaled their direction of motion
with precision, with direction-tuning curves being only slightly wider than those
measured with solid bars. However, the tuning of most MT cells to stimulus length
and speed depended on the type of stimulus - in comparison with solid bars,
responses to camouflaged bars typically showed more extensive length summation,
weak end-inhibition, and stronger attenuation at high speeds. Moreover, the
emergence of direction selectivity was delayed in trials involving camouflaged
bars, relative to solid bars. Comparison with results obtained in the first (V1) 
and second (V2) visual areas, using similar stimuli, indicates that neural
computations performed in MT result in significantly stronger and more accurate
signals about camouflaged objects, particularly in situations in which these are 
relatively large and slow moving. These computations are likely to represent an
important step in enabling cue-invariant perception of moving objects,
particularly in biologically relevant situations.

© 2012 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2012 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2012.08121.x 
PMID: 22591321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

