

1723. Hear Res. 2012 Aug;290(1-2):37-44. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2012.05.002. Epub 2012
May 11.

Temporal bone characterization and cochlear implant feasibility in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Johnson LA(1), Della Santina CC, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Engineering Dept., Johns Hopkins University, 412 Traylor Research
Building, 720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. luke.johnson@jhu.edu

The marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model for
studying behavioral and neural mechanisms related to vocal communication. It is
also well suited for investigating neural mechanisms related to cochlear
implants. The purpose of this study was to characterize marmoset temporal bone
anatomy and investigate the feasibility of implanting a multi-channel
intracochlear electrode into the marmoset scala tympani. Micro computed
tomography (microCT) was used to create high-resolution images of marmoset
temporal bones. Cochlear fluid spaces, middle ear ossicles, semicircular canals
and the surrounding temporal bone were reconstructed in three-dimensional space. 
Our results show that the marmoset cochlea is ∼16.5 mm in length and has ∼2.8
turns. The cross-sectional area of the scala tympani is greatest (∼0.8 mm(2)) at 
∼1.75 mm from the base of the scala, reduces to ∼0.4 mm(2) at 5 mm from the base,
and decreases at a constant rate for the remaining length. Interestingly, this
length-area profile, when scaled 2.5 times, is similar to the scala tympani of
the human cochlea. Given these dimensions, a compatible multi-channel implant
electrode was identified. In a cadaveric specimen, this electrode was inserted ¾ 
turn into the scala tympani through a cochleostomy at ∼1 mm apical to the round
window. The depth of the most apical electrode band was ∼8 mm. Our study provides
detailed structural anatomy data for the middle and inner ear of the marmoset,
and suggests the potential of the marmoset as a new non-human primate model for
cochlear implant research.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2012.05.002 
PMCID: PMC3394878
PMID: 22583919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

