

1724. Theriogenology. 2012 Sep 1;78(4):811-6. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.03.029. Epub 2012 May 11.

Minimally invasive transabdominal collection of preimplantation embryos from the 
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hanazawa K(1), Mueller T, Becker T, Heistermann M, Behr R, Sasaki E.

Author information: 
(1)Juntendo Nerima Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

A novel, minimally invasive, transabdominal embryo collection method
(transabdominal method) was developed as an alternative to a standard abdominal
incision for embryo collection in the common marmoset. The abdominal incision
method was used for 304 flushes using 36 female animals, whereas the
transabdominal method was used for 488 flushes using 48 females; successful
embryo collection rates were 48.0% and 48.4% (P > 0.05), respectively. These
techniques were successfully duplicated at another institute (German Primate
Center, DPZ). At that institution, successful embryo collection rates were 88.9% 
and 77.8% for the abdominal incision and transabdominal methods, respectively (P 
> 0.05), whereas the average numbers of preimplantation embryos obtained per
flush were (mean ± SD) 1.91 ± 0.35 and 1.71 ± 0.14 (P > 0.05). The transabdominal
method reduced animal stress, did not require incisional wound healing, and
enabled successive embryo recoveries to be done much sooner. More embryos in
early developmental stages (zygotes/morulae) were recovered using the
transabdominal method (76.1%) than the abdominal incision method (52.6%, P <
0.01). In contrast, recovery of arrested or abnormal embryos was not
significantly different between these two methods (9.8% and 8.3%). To verify
developmental ability of embryos recovered by the transabdominal method, transfer
of 28 normal embryos to 14 surrogate mothers yielded a nidation rate of 57%. Five
females sustained term pregnancies and eight neonates were born. This novel
transabdominal method will facilitate progress in marmoset developmental biology 
and embryology.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2012.03.029 
PMID: 22578624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

