

1725. Anim Cogn. 2012 Sep;15(5):1021-30. doi: 10.1007/s10071-012-0511-0. Epub 2012 May 
11.

Performance on patterned string problems by common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Gagne M(1), Levesque K, Nutile L, Locurto C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, College of the Holy Cross, 1 College Street, P.O.
Box 75A, Worcester, MA 01610, USA.

This experiment examined the performance of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
on a series of patterned string problems to assess the marmosets' understanding
of means-ends relationships. One marmoset, Jet, was exposed to a series of
problems that were ordered in terms of perceived difficulty during two testings
that were separated by 1 year. In the second testing, Jet received problems that 
had been used during the first testing along with three new problems. Each of the
new problems was designed to be an exemplar of the type of problem that Jet had
experienced difficulty with in the first testing. A second marmoset, Peaches, was
tested on the same set of problems given to Jet in the second testing. Results
indicated that the marmosets' performance on these problems fell into three
categories. In one category, some problems were solved without evidence of
trial-and-error learning. In a second category, there were problems in which the 
marmosets responded at chance levels initially but evidenced improvement as a
function of extended testing. In a third category, some problems appeared to be
virtually unsolvable even with extended testing. Taken together, these results
indicate that the marmosets were able to learn the means-ends connection between 
pulling a string and obtaining food. This learning was best characterized as a
trial-and-error process for some problem forms, while for others there appeared
to be rapid learning that did not require extensive practice. The instances of
rapid learning may be the result of the application of a simple spatial proximity
rule in which the marmosets chose the string that was closest to an imaginary
line drawn between the marmoset and the reinforcer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-012-0511-0 
PMCID: PMC3425667
PMID: 22576582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

