

1726. PLoS One. 2012;7(5):e37477. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037477. Epub 2012 May 4.

Co-evolution of primate SAMHD1 and lentivirus Vpx leads to the loss of the vpx
gene in HIV-1 ancestor.

Zhang C(1), de Silva S, Wang JH, Wu L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Life Sciences, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, China.
zhangcy1999@ips.ac.cn

Cross-species transmission and adaptation of simian immunodeficiency viruses
(SIVs) to humans have given rise to human immunodeficiency viruses (HIVs). HIV
type 1 (HIV-1) and type 2 (HIV-2) were derived from SIVs that infected chimpanzee
(SIVcpz) and sooty mangabey (SIVsm), respectively. The HIV-1 restriction factor
SAMHD1 inhibits HIV-1 infection in human myeloid cells and can be counteracted by
the Vpx protein of HIV-2 and the SIVsm lineage. However, HIV-1 and its ancestor
SIVcpz do not encode a Vpx protein and HIV-1 has not evolved a mechanism to
overcome SAMHD1-mediated restriction. Here we show that the co-evolution of
primate SAMHD1 and lentivirus Vpx leads to the loss of the vpx gene in SIVcpz and
HIV-1. We found evidence for positive selection of SAMHD1 in orangutan, gibbon,
rhesus macaque, and marmoset, but not in human, chimpanzee and gorilla that are
natural hosts of Vpx-negative HIV-1, SIVcpz and SIVgor, respectively, indicating 
that vpx drives the evolution of primate SAMHD1. Ancestral host state
reconstruction and temporal dynamic analyses suggest that the most recent common 
ancestor of SIVrcm, SIVmnd, SIVcpz, SIVgor and HIV-1 was a SIV that had a vpx
gene; however, the vpx gene of SIVcpz was lost approximately 3643 to 2969 years
ago during the infection of chimpanzees. Thus, HIV-1 could not inherit the lost
vpx gene from its ancestor SIVcpz. The lack of Vpx in HIV-1 results in restricted
infection in myeloid cells that are important for antiviral immunity, which could
contribute to the AIDS pandemic by escaping the immune responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0037477 
PMCID: PMC3345027
PMID: 22574228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

