

1727. Cells Tissues Organs. 2012;196(3):206-20. doi: 10.1159/000335031. Epub 2012 May
8.

Developmental expression of the pluripotency factor sal-like protein 4 in the
monkey, human and mouse testis: restriction to premeiotic germ cells.

Eildermann K(1), Aeckerle N, Debowski K, Godmann M, Christiansen H, Heistermann
M, Schweyer S, Bergmann M, Kliesch S, Gromoll J, Ehmcke J, Schlatt S, Behr R.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell Biology Unit, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate
Research, Göttingen, Germany.

SALL4 (sal-like protein 4) is a pluripotency transcription factor, which is
highly expressed in embryonic stem (ES) cells and which is essential for mouse
preimplantation development. In adult mouse organs, Sall4 mRNA is highly
expressed in the testis and ovary, while there is only little or no expression in
other organs. There is also a high expression of SALL4 in human testicular germ
cell tumors. However, there is as yet no detailed analysis of SALL4 expression
during mammalian testicular development. We analyzed SALL4 expression in ES
cells, preimplantation embryos, and the developing and adult testis of a nonhuman
primate (NHP) species, the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).
Immunofluorescence revealed SALL4 in the nuclei of marmoset ES cells and
preimplantation embryos. Marmoset SALL4 isoform analysis in ES cells and newborn 
and adult testis by RT- PCR and Western blotting showed two different isoforms,
SALL4-A and SALL4-B. Immunohistochemistry localized this transcription factor to 
the nuclei of primordial germ cells and most gonocytes in the prenatal and early 
postnatal marmoset testis. In the pubertal and adult testis SALL4 was present in 
undifferentiated spermatogonia. In the developing and adult human and mouse
testis SALL4 expression mimicked the pattern in the marmoset. Adult testes from
additional NHP species, the treeshrew, the cat and the dog also exhibited SALL4
in undifferentiated spermatogonia, indicating a conserved expression in the
mammalian testis. Taking into account the importance of SALL4 for mouse
development, we conclude that SALL4 may play an important role during mammalian
germ cell development and is involved in the regulation of spermatogonial
proliferation in the adult testis.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000335031 
PMID: 22572102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

