

1728. Vis Neurosci. 2012 May;29(3):157-68. doi: 10.1017/S095252381200017X. Epub 2012
May 8.

Amacrine and bipolar inputs to midget and parasol ganglion cells in marmoset
retina.

Abbott CJ(1), Percival KA, Martin PR, GrÃ¼nert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Save Sight Institute, The University of
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Retinal ganglion cells receive excitatory synapses from bipolar cells and
inhibitory synapses from amacrine cells. Previous studies in primate suggest that
the strength of inhibitory amacrine input is greater to cells in peripheral
retina than to foveal (central) cells. A comprehensive study of a large number of
ganglion cells at different eccentricities, however, is still lacking. Here, we
compared the amacrine and bipolar input to midget and parasol ganglion cells in
central and peripheral retina of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Ganglion cells
were labeled by retrograde filling from the lateral geniculate nucleus or by
intracellular injection. Presumed amacrine input was identified with antibodies
against gephyrin; presumed bipolar input was identified with antibodies against
the GluR4 subunit of the AMPA receptor. In vertical sections, about 40% of
gephyrin immunoreactive (IR) puncta were colocalized with GABAA receptor
subunits, whereas immunoreactivity for gephyrin and GluR4 was found at distinct
sets of puncta. The density of gephyrin IR puncta associated with ganglion cell
dendrites was comparable for midget and parasol cells at all eccentricities
studied (up to 2 mm or about 16 degrees of visual angle for midget cells and up
to 10 mm or >80 degrees of visual angle for parasol cells). In central retina,
the densities of gephyrin IR and GluR4 IR puncta associated with the dendrites of
midget and parasol cells are comparable, but the average density of GluR4 IR
puncta decreased slightly in peripheral parasol cells. These anatomical results
indicate that the ratio of amacrine to bipolar input does not account for the
distinct functional properties of parasol and midget cells or for functional
differences between cells of the same type in central and peripheral retina.

DOI: 10.1017/S095252381200017X 
PMID: 22564345  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

