

1731. Neuroimage. 2012 Aug 1;62(1):408-17. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.04.030. Epub 
2012 Apr 24.

Coupling and robustness of intra-cortical vascular territories.

Guibert R(1), Fonta C, Risser L, Plouraboué F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Mécanique des Fluides, UMR 5502, INPT-CNRS-UPS, 1 Allée du
Professeur Camille Soula, 31400 Toulouse, France. romainguibert@gmail.com

Vascular domains have been described as being coupled to neuronal functional
units enabling dynamic blood supply to the cerebral cyto-architecture. Recent
experiments have shown that penetrating arterioles of the grey matter are the
building blocks for such units. Nevertheless, vascular territories are still
poorly known, as the collection and analysis of large three-dimensional
micro-vascular networks are difficult. By using an exhaustive reconstruction of
the micro-vascular network in an 18 mm(3) volume of marmoset cerebral cortex, we 
numerically computed the blood flow in each blood vessel. We thus defined
arterial and venular territories and examined their overlap. A large part of the 
intracortical vascular network was found to be supplied by several arteries and
drained by several venules. We quantified this multiple potential to compensate
for deficiencies by introducing a new robustness parameter. Robustness proved to 
be positively correlated with cortical depth and a systematic investigation of
coupling maps indicated local patterns of overlap between neighbouring arteries
and neighbouring venules. However, arterio-venular coupling did not have a
spatial pattern of overlap but showed locally preferential functional coupling,
especially of one artery with two venules, supporting the notion of vascular
units. We concluded that intra-cortical perfusion in the primate was
characterised by both very narrow functional beds and a large capacity for
compensatory redistribution, far beyond the nearest neighbour collaterals.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2012.04.030 
PMID: 22548806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

