

1732. J Chem Neuroanat. 2012 May;44(1):34-44. doi: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2012.04.001. Epub
2012 Apr 15.

Retinal projections and neurochemical characterization of the pregeniculate
nucleus of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Lima RR(1), Pinato L, Nascimento RB, Engelberth RC, Nascimento ES, Cavalcante JC,
Britto LR, Costa MS, Cavalcante JS.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroanatomy, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, 
RN, Brazil.

In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and the intergeniculate leaflet
(IGL) are the main components of the circadian timing system. The SCN is the site
of the endogenous biological clock that generates rhythms and synchronizes them
to environmental cues. The IGL is a key structure that modulates SCN activity and
is responsible for the transmission of non-photic information to the SCN, thus
participating in the integration between photic and non-photic stimuli. Both the 
SCN and IGL receive projections of retinal ganglion cells and the IGL is
connected to the SCN through the geniculohypothalamic tract. Little is known
about these structures in the primate brain and the pregeniculate nucleus (PGN)
has been suggested to be the primate equivalent of the rodent IGL. The aim of
this study was to characterize the PGN of a primate, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), and to analyze its retinal afferents. Here, the marmoset
PGN was found to be organized into three subsectors based on neuronal size,
pattern of retinal projections, and the distribution of neuropeptide Y-, GAD-,
serotonin-, enkephalin- and substance P-labeled terminals. This pattern indicates
that the marmoset PGN is equivalent to the IGL. This detailed description
contributes to the understanding of the circadian timing system in this primate
species considering the importance of the IGL within the context of circadian
regulation.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchemneu.2012.04.001 
PMID: 22531294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

