

1733. Cereb Cortex. 2013 May;23(5):1126-47. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhs088. Epub 2012 Apr
20.

High-resolution mapping of anatomical connections in marmoset extrastriate cortex
reveals a complete representation of the visual field bordering dorsal V2.

Jeffs J(1), Federer F, Ichida JM, Angelucci A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Moran Eye Center, University of Utah, Salt Lake
City, UT 84132, USA.

The primate visual cortex consists of many areas. The posterior areas (V1, V2,
V3, and middle temporal) are thought to be common to all primate species.
However, the organization of cortex immediately anterior to area V2 (the "third
tier" cortex) remains controversial, particularly in New World primates. The main
point of contention has been whether the third tier cortex consists of a single
area V3, representing lower and upper visual quadrants in dorsal and ventral
cortex, respectively, or of 2 distinct areas (the dorsomedial [DM] area and a
V3-like area). Resolving this controversy is crucial to understand the function
and evolution of the third tier cortex. We have addressed this issue in
marmosets, by performing high-precision mapping of corticocortical connections in
cortex bordering dorsal V2. Multiple closely spaced neuroanatomical tracer
injections were placed across the full width of dorsal V2 or adjacent anterior
cortex, and the location of resulting labeled cells mapped throughout whole
flattened visual cortex. The resulting topographic patterns of labeled
connections allowed us to define areas and their boundaries. We found that a
complete representation of the visual field borders dorsal V2 and that the third 
tier cortex consists of 2 distinct areas. These results unequivocally support the
DM model.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhs088 
PMCID: PMC3615347
PMID: 22523183  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

