

1734. Lab Anim. 2012 Apr;46(2):152-63. doi: 10.1258/la.2012.011167. Epub 2012 Apr 19.

Anatomical description and morphometry of the skeleton of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Casteleyn C(1), Bakker J, Breugelmans S, Kondova I, Saunders J, Langermans JA,
Cornillie P, Van den Broeck W, Van Loo D, Van Hoorebeke L, Bosseler L, Chiers K, 
Decostere A.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Veterinary Morphology, Department of Veterinary Sciences, Faculty of
Pharmaceutical, Biochemical and Veterinary Sciences, University of Antwerp,
Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium. christophe.casteleyn@ua.ac.be

Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset) is regularly used in biomedical research,
including for studies involving the skeleton. To support these studies, skeletons
of healthy animals that had been euthanized for reasons not interfering with
skeletal anatomy were prepared. The marmoset dental formula 2I-1C-3P-2M of each
oral quadrant is atypical for New World monkeys which commonly possess a third
molar. Seven cervical, 12-13 thoracic, 7-6 lumbar, 2-3 sacral and 26-29 caudal
vertebrae are present, the thoracolumbar region always comprising 19 vertebrae. A
sigmoid clavicle connects the scapula with the manubrium of the sternum.
Depending on the number of thoracic vertebrae, 4-5 sternebrae are located between
the manubrium and xiphoid process. Wide interosseous spaces separate the radius
from the ulna, and the tibia from the fibula. A small sesamoid bone is inserted
in the m. abductor digiti primi longus at the medial border of the carpus, a pair
of ovoid sesamoid bones is located at the palmar/plantar sides of the trochleae
of each metapodial bone, and round fabellae articulate with the proximal surfaces
of the femoral condyles. Male marmosets possess a small penile bone. Both the
front and hind feet have five digits. The hallux possesses a flat nail, whereas
all other digits present curved claws. Interestingly, a central bone is present
in both the carpus and tarsus. This study provides a description and detailed
illustrations of the skeleton of the common marmoset as an anatomical guide for
further biomedical research.

DOI: 10.1258/la.2012.011167 
PMID: 22517992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

