

1738. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo. 2012 Mar-Apr;54(2):95-101.

Susceptibility of peritoneal macrophage from different species of neotropical
primates to ex vivo Leishmania (L.) infantum chagasi-infection.

Carneiro LA(1), Laurenti MD, Campos MB, Gomes CM, Corbett CE, Silveira FT.

Author information: 
(1)Evandro Chagas Institute, Surveillance Secretary of Health, Ministry of
Health, Belém, Pará State, Brazil. lilianecarneiro@iec.pa.gov.br

This study examined the susceptibility of peritoneal macrophage (PM) from the
Neotropical primates: Callithrix jacchus, Callithrix penicillata, Saimiri
sciureus, Aotus azarae infulatus and Callimico goeldii to ex vivo Leishmania (L.)
infantum chagasi-infection, the etiological agent of American visceral
leishmaniasis (AVL), as a screening assay for evaluating the potential of these
non-human primates as experimental models for studying AVL. The PM-susceptibility
to infection was accessed by the PM-infection index (PMI) at 24, 72 h and by the 
mean of these rates (FPMI), as well as by the TNF-α, IL-12 (Capture ELISA) and
Nitric oxide (NO) responses (Griess method). At 24h, the PMI of A. azarae
infulatus (128) was higher than those of C. penicillata (83), C. goeldii (78), S.
sciureus (77) and C. jacchus (55). At 72h, there was a significant PMI decrease
in four monkeys: A. azarae infulatus (128/37), C. penicillata (83/38), S.
sciureus (77/38) and C. jacchus (55/12), with exception of C. goeldii (78/54).
The FPMI of A. azarae infulatus (82.5) and C. goeldii (66) were higher than C.
jacchus (33.5), but not higher than those of C. penicillata (60.5) and S.
sciureus (57.5). The TNF-a response was more regular in those four primates which
decreased their PMI at 24/72 h: C. jacchus (145/122 pg/mL), C. penicillata
(154/130 pg/mL), S. sciureus (164/104 pg/mL) and A. azarae infulatus (154/104
pg/mL), with exception of C. goeldii (38/83 pg/mL). The IL-12 response was mainly
prominent in A. infulatus and C. goeldii which presented the highest FPMI and,
the NO response was higher in C. goeldii, mainly at 72 h. These findings strongly
suggest that these New World primates have developed a resistant innate immune
response mechanism capable of controlling the macrophage intracellular growth of 
L. (L.) i. chagasi-infection, which do not encourage their use as animal model
for studying AVL.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-46652012000200007 
PMID: 22499423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

