

1739. J Neurosci. 2012 Apr 11;32(15):5039-53. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4788-11.2012.

Comparative anatomy of marmoset and mouse cortex from genomic expression.

Mashiko H(1), Yoshida AC, Kikuchi SS, Niimi K, Takahashi E, Aruga J, Okano H,
Shimogori T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Mechanisms of Thalamus Development, RIKEN Brain
Science Institute, Wako, Saitama, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Neurosci. 2012 Dec 5;32(49):17932.

Advances in mouse neural circuit genetics, brain atlases, and behavioral assays
provide a powerful system for modeling the genetic basis of cognition and
psychiatric disease. However, a critical limitation of this approach is how to
achieve concordance of mouse neurobiology with the ultimate goal of understanding
the human brain. Previously, the common marmoset has shown promise as a genetic
model system toward the linking of mouse and human studies. However, the advent
of marmoset transgenic approaches will require an understanding of developmental 
principles in marmoset compared to mouse. In this study, we used gene expression 
analysis in marmoset brain to pose a series of fundamental questions on cortical 
development and evolution for direct comparison to existing mouse brain atlas
expression data. Most genes showed reliable conservation of expression between
marmoset and mouse. However, certain markers had strikingly divergent expression 
patterns. The lateral geniculate nucleus and pulvinar in the thalamus showed
diversification of genetic organization between marmoset and mouse, suggesting
they share some similarity. In contrast, gene expression patterns in early visual
cortical areas showed marmoset-specific expression. In prefrontal cortex, some
markers labeled architectonic areas and layers distinct between mouse and
marmoset. Core hippocampus was conserved, while afferent areas showed divergence.
Together, these results indicate that existing cortical areas are genetically
conserved between marmoset and mouse, while differences in areal parcellation,
afferent diversification, and layer complexity are associated with specific
genes. Collectively, we propose that gene expression patterns in marmoset brain
reveal important clues to the principles underlying the molecular evolution of
cortical and cognitive expansion.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4788-11.2012 
PMCID: PMC6622108
PMID: 22496550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

