

1743. J Immunol. 2012 May 1;188(9):4654-62. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1101575. Epub 2012
Mar 30.

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor-mediated induction of EBV reactivation as a risk factor
for Sjögren's syndrome.

Inoue H(1), Mishima K, Yamamoto-Yoshida S, Ushikoshi-Nakayama R, Nakagawa Y,
Yamamoto K, Ryo K, Ide F, Saito I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Tsurumi University School of Dental Medicine,
Kanagawa 230-8501, Japan.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor
that mediates a variety of biological effects by binding to environmental
pollutants, including 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD or dioxin).
Although numerous animal studies have demonstrated the harmful effects of
dioxins, it remains controversial whether dioxins pose a risk to human health.
Enhanced lytic replication of EBV is a risk factor for the development of
autoimmune diseases and cancers. This study evaluated the possibility that
ligand-activated AhR reactivates EBV. EBV reactivation and AhR transactivation
were evaluated with luciferase assays. Saliva samples were collected from 19
patients with primary Sjögren's syndrome (SS). Control saliva samples were
obtained from 10 healthy individuals and nine patients with severe dry mouth.
TCDD enhanced BZLF1 transcription, which mediates the switch from the latent to
the lytic form of EBV infection in EBV-positive B cell lines and in a salivary
gland epithelial cell line. Moreover, TCDD-induced increases in BZLF1 mRNA and
EBV genomic DNA levels were confirmed in the B cell lines. Saliva from SS
patients activated the transcription of both CYP1A1 and BZLF1. Additionally,
there was a positive correlation between CYP1A1 and BZLF1 promoter activities.
AhR ligands elicited the reactivation of EBV in activated B cells and salivary
epithelial cells, and these ligands are involved in SS. Our findings reveal novel
aspects of the biological effects of dioxin and the AhR-dependent pathogenesis of
autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1101575 
PMID: 22467650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

