

1744. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2012 May;295(5):822-36. doi: 10.1002/ar.22454. Epub 2012 Mar 
29.

Thalamic connections of auditory cortex in marmoset monkeys: lateral belt and
parabelt regions.

de la Mothe LA(1), Blumell S, Kajikawa Y, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Tennessee State University, Nashville, Tennessee,
USA. ldelamot@tnstate.edu

The primate auditory cortex is comprised of a core region of three primary areas,
surrounded by a belt region of secondary areas and a parabelt region lateral to
the belt. The main sources of thalamocortical inputs to the auditory cortex are
the medial geniculate complex (MGC), medial pulvinar (PM), and several adjoining 
nuclei in the posterior thalamus. The distribution of inputs varies
topographically by cortical area and thalamic nucleus, but in a manner that has
not been fully characterized in primates. In this study, the thalamocortical
connections of the lateral belt and parabelt were determined by placing
retrograde tracer injections into various areas of these regions in the marmoset 
monkey. Both regions received projections from the medial (MGm) and posterodorsal
(MGpd) divisions of the medial geniculate complex (MGC); however, labeled cells
in the anterodorsal (MGad) division were present only from injections into the
caudal belt. Thalamic inputs to the lateral belt appeared to come mainly from the
MGC, whereas the parabelt also received a strong projection from the PM,
consistent with its position as a later stage of auditory cortical processing.
The results of this study also indicate that the organization of the marmoset
auditory cortex is similar to other primates.

Copyright Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.22454 
PMID: 22467603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

