

1747. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2012 May;295(5):800-21. doi: 10.1002/ar.22451. Epub 2012 Mar 
28.

Cortical connections of auditory cortex in marmoset monkeys: lateral belt and
parabelt regions.

de la Mothe LA(1), Blumell S, Kajikawa Y, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Tennessee State University, Nashville, Tennessee
37209, USA.

The current working model of primate auditory cortex is constructed from a number
of studies of both new and old world monkeys. It includes three levels of
processing. A primary level, the core region, is surrounded both medially and
laterally by a secondary belt region. A third level of processing, the parabelt
region, is located lateral to the belt. The marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus
jacchus) has become an important model system to study auditory processing, but
its anatomical organization has not been fully established. In previous studies, 
we focused on the architecture and connections of the core and medial belt areas 
(de la Mothe et al., 2006a, J Comp Neurol 496:27-71; de la Mothe et al., 2006b, J
Comp Neurol 496:72-96). In this study, the corticocortical connections of the
lateral belt and parabelt were examined in the marmoset. Tracers were injected
into both rostral and caudal portions of the lateral belt and parabelt. Both
regions revealed topographic connections along the rostrocaudal axis, where
caudal areas of injection had stronger connections with caudal areas, and rostral
areas of injection with rostral areas. The lateral belt had strong connections
with the core, belt, and parabelt, whereas the parabelt had strong connections
with the belt but not the core. Label in the core from injections in the parabelt
was significantly reduced or absent, consistent with the idea that the parabelt
relies mainly on the belt for its cortical input. In addition, the present and
previous studies indicate hierarchical principles of anatomical organization in
the marmoset that are consistent with those observed in other primates.

Copyright Â© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.22451 
PMCID: PMC3379817
PMID: 22461313  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

