

1748. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2012 Apr;7(4):315-25. doi: 10.1517/17460441.2012.666523.
Epub 2012 Feb 28.

New drug discovery strategies for rheumatoid arthritis: a niche for nonhuman
primate models to address systemic complications in inflammatory arthritis.

Vierboom M(1), Breedveld E, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Department of Immunobiology, PO BOX 3306, 
2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. vierboom@bprc.nl

INTRODUCTION: Despite the tremendous advances made in the treatment of rheumatoid
arthritis (RA), there is still excess mortality observed in RA patients, which is
mainly caused by cardiovascular disease (CVD). Altered lipid metabolism plays a
major role in the etiology of CVD. A second common complication observed in RA
patients is anemia. Both conditions are serious, reduce quality of life and are
undertreated.
AREAS COVERED: The authors postulate that there is a specific niche for nonhuman 
primate models of inflammatory arthritis to address these systemic complications 
that occur in RA. Furthermore, the authors postulate that these nonhuman primate 
models are a useful platform to unveil the mechanisms underlying dyslipidemia and
anemia, which are responsible for the manifestation of these complications.
EXPERT OPINION: The presence of currently untreated systemic complications of RA,
such as dyslipidemia and anemia, provides interesting opportunities to include
these in the preclinical evaluation of new therapies. In the selection of
relevant models for the evaluation of new treatments for RA or the identification
of new targets for therapy, we postulate that nonhuman primates should be
considered as a valid preclinical model. Because of their closer immunological
and physiological proximity to humans, these models in nonhuman primates can be
valuable for studying disease-related aspects that cannot be addressed in rodent 
models.

Â© 2012 Informa UK, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2012.666523 
PMID: 22458503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

