

1749. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2012;136(4):278-87. doi: 10.1159/000337298. Epub 2012 Mar
24.

Methylation and expression analyses of the 7q autism susceptibility locus genes
MEST , COPG2, and TSGA14 in human and anthropoid primate cortices.

Schneider E(1), Mayer S, El Hajj N, Jensen LR, Kuss AW, Zischler H, Kondova I,
Bontrop RE, Navarro B, Fuchs E, Zechner U, Haaf T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Julius Maximilians University, Würzburg, Germany.

The autism susceptibility locus on human chromosome 7q32 contains the maternally 
imprinted MEST and the non-imprinted COPG2 and TSGA14 genes. Autism is a disorder
of the 'social brain' that has been proposed to be due to an overbalance of
paternally expressed genes. To study regulation of the 7q32 locus during
anthropoid primate evolution, we analyzed the methylation and expression patterns
of MEST, COPG2, and TSGA14 in human, chimpanzee, Old World monkey (baboon and
rhesus macaque), and New World monkey (marmoset) cortices. In all human and
anthropoid primate cortices, the MEST promoter was hemimethylated, as expected
for a differentially methylated imprinting control region, whereas the COPG2 and 
TSGA14 promoters were completely demethylated, typical for transcriptionally
active non-imprinted genes. The MEST gene also showed comparable mRNA expression 
levels in all analyzed species. In contrast, COPG2 expression was downregulated
in the human cortex compared to chimpanzee, Old and New World monkeys. TSGA14
either showed no differential regulation in the human brain compared to
chimpanzee and marmoset or a slight upregulation compared to baboon. The
human-specific downregulation supports a role for COPG2 in the development of a
'social brain'. Promoter methylation patterns appear to be more stable during
evolution than gene expression patterns, suggesting that other mechanisms may be 
more important for inter-primate differences in gene expression.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000337298 
PMID: 22456293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

