

1756. Primates. 2012 Jul;53(3):303-9. doi: 10.1007/s10329-012-0302-x. Epub 2012 Mar 3.

Callithrix penicillata as a nonhuman primate model for strongyloidiasis.

de Melo AL(1), Mati VL, Martins WA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Taxonomia e Biologia de Invertebrados, Departamento de
Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas
Gerais, P.O. Box 486, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, 30123-970, Brazil.
aldemelo@icb.ufmg.br

In order to better understand experimental strongyloidiasis in small New World
primates, and to evaluate aspects of reinfection and immunosuppression induced by
glucocorticoids, nine specimens of Callithrix penicillata (Primates: Cebidae)
were administered (by subcutaneous injection, sc) 3000 infective larvae of a
strain of Strongyloides venezuelensis (Rhabditida: Strongyloididae) that had been
maintained in successive passages through AKR/J mice since 1987. The mean
prepatent period was 5.6 ± 0.7 days post-infection (DPI). The mean patent period 
of infection among the untreated animals (marmosets 1-7) was 123.4 ± 61.4 DPI.
Two animals (marmosets 8 and 9) received dexamethasone (2.5 mg/kg, sc) for five
consecutive days starting on the 20th day after infection, but this treatment did
not alter the course of the infection, and the patent period for these animals
was 100.5 ± 58.7 DPI (59 and 142, respectively). Stool examination showed that
the highest quantities of parasite eggs were expelled between the 8th and 19th
days after inoculation of the larvae. Thereafter, there was a gradual reduction
in the number of parasite eggs in feces of all marmosets. During the chronic
phase of the infection, before completely negative parasitological findings were 
obtained, the parasitological examinations were intermittently positive.
Reinfection of three of these animals did not result in new positive
examinations. However, given the receptiveness of these animals to initial
infection with S. venezuelensis and their similarities to human beings, it is
proposed that C. penicillata could be used as a nonhuman primate model for
experimental strongyloidiasis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-012-0302-x 
PMID: 22388422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

