

1757. Toxicology. 2012 May 16;295(1-3):47-55. doi: 10.1016/j.tox.2012.02.007. Epub 2012
Mar 1.

High-performance metabolic profiling of plasma from seven mammalian species for
simultaneous environmental chemical surveillance and bioeffect monitoring.

Park YH(1), Lee K, Soltow QA, Strobel FH, Brigham KL, Parker RE, Wilson ME,
Sutliff RL, Mansfield KG, Wachtman LM, Ziegler TR, Jones DP.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Emory University,
Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

High-performance metabolic profiling (HPMP) by Fourier-transform mass
spectrometry coupled to liquid chromatography gives relative quantification of
thousands of chemicals in biologic samples but has had little development for use
in toxicology research. In principle, the approach could be useful to detect
complex metabolic response patterns to toxicologic exposures and to detect
unusual abundances or patterns of potentially toxic chemicals. As an initial
study to develop these possible uses, we applied HPMP and bioinformatics analysis
to plasma of humans, rhesus macaques, marmosets, pigs, sheep, rats and mice to
determine: (1) whether more chemicals are detected in humans living in a less
controlled environment than captive species and (2) whether a subset of plasma
chemicals with similar inter-species and intra-species variation could be
identified for use in comparative toxicology. Results show that the number of
chemicals detected was similar in humans (3221) and other species (range
2537-3373). Metabolite patterns were most similar within species and separated
samples according to family and order. A total of 1485 chemicals were common to
all species; 37% of these matched chemicals in human metabolomic databases and
included chemicals in 137 out of 146 human metabolic pathways. Probability-based 
modularity clustering separated 644 chemicals, including many endogenous
metabolites, with inter-species variation similar to intra-species variation. The
remaining chemicals had greater inter-species variation and included
environmental chemicals as well as GSH and methionine. Together, the data suggest
that HPMP provides a platform that can be useful within human populations and
controlled animal studies to simultaneously evaluate environmental exposures and 
biological responses to such exposures.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tox.2012.02.007 
PMCID: PMC3332037
PMID: 22387982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

