

1759. Virus Res. 2012 May;165(2):179-89. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2012.02.014. Epub 2012
Feb 25.

Species restriction of Herpesvirus saimiri and Herpesvirus ateles: human
lymphocyte transformation correlates with distinct signaling properties of viral 
oncoproteins.

Katsch K(1), de Jong SJ, Schmidt M, Müller-Fleckenstein I, Fleckenstein B,
Albrecht JC, Biesinger B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.

The potential of Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) subgroups A, B and C and Herpesvirus
ateles (HVA) to transform primary T cells to permanent growth in vitro is
restricted by the primate host species and by viral variability represented by
distinct viral oncoproteins. We now addressed the relation between the
transforming potential of the different viruses and the signaling pathways
activated by transiently expressed oncoproteins. Marmoset lymphocytes were
transformed by all HVS subgroups as well as HVA, while transformation of human
cells was restricted to HVS-C and, unexpectedly, HVA. NF-κB and Src-family kinase
(SFK) activity was required for survival of all transformed lymphocytes.
Accordingly, NF-κB was induced by oncoproteins of all viruses. In contrast,
SFK-related signaling was detectable only for oncoproteins of HVS-C and HVA.
Thus, the restricted transformation of human lymphocytes likely correlates with
the specific SFK targeting by these oncoproteins. These results will enable
further studies into novel SFK effector mechanisms relevant for T-cell
proliferation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2012.02.014 
PMID: 22374337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

