

1760. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2012 Aug;111(2):126-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-7843.2012.00872.x. Epub 2012 Mar 17.

Mercury in the spinal cord after inhalation of mercury.

Roos PM(1), Dencker L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
per.roos@ki.se

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) affects anterior horn cells of the spinal
cord causing an indolent slow and steady deterioration of muscle strength leading
inevitably to death in respiratory failure. ALS is a model condition for
neurodegenerative disorders. Exposure to different agents dispersed in the
environment has been suggested to cause neurodegeneration but no convincing
evidence for such a link has yet been presented. Respiratory exposure to metallic
mercury (Hg(0)) from different sources may be suspected. Body distribution of
metallic mercury is fast and depends on solubility properties. Routes of
transport, metabolism, excretion and biological half-life determine the overall
toxic effects. Inhalation experiments were performed in 1984 where small marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were exposed to (203) Hg(0 vapour) mixed into the
breathing air (4-5 μg/l). After 1 hr of exposure, they were killed and whole body
autoradiograms prepared to study the distribution of mercury within organs.
Autoradiograms showed that Hg was deposited inside the spinal cord. Areas of
enhanced accumulation anatomically corresponding to motor nuclei could be
observed. This study describes a reinvestigation, with new emphasis on the spinal
cord, of these classical metal exposure data in a primate, focusing on their
relevance for the causation of neurodegenerative disorders. A comparison with
more recent rodent experiments with similar findings is included. The hypothesis 
that long-time low-dose respiratory exposure to metals, for example, Hg,
contributes to neurodegenerative disorders is forwarded and discussed.

© 2012 The Authors Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology © 2012 Nordic
Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-7843.2012.00872.x 
PMID: 22364490  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

