

1761. Am J Primatol. 2012 Mar;74(3):261-9.

The development of obesity begins at an early age in captive common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Power ML(1), Ross CN, Schulkin J, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Conservation Ecology Center, Smithsonian Conservation
Biology Institute, National Zoological Park, Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA.
mpower@acog.org

Animal models to study the causes and consequences of obesity during infancy in
humans would be valuable. In this study, we examine the patterns of fat mass gain
from birth to 12 months in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Lean and fat
mass was measured by quantitative magnetic resonance at 1, 2, 6, and 12 months
for 31 marmosets, 15 considered Normal and 16 considered Fat (> 14% body fat) at 
12 months. Animals were fed either the regular colony diet mix or a high-fat
variation. Subjects classified as Fat at 12 months already had greater lean mass 
(198.4 +/- 6.2 g vs. 174.0 +/- 6.8 g, P = 0.013) and fat mass (45.5 +/- 5.0 g vs.
24.9 +/- 3.4 g, P = .002) by 6 months. Body mass did not differ between groups
prior to 6 months, however, by 1 month, Fat infants had greater percent body fat.
Percent body fat decreased between 1 and 12 months in Normal subjects; in Fat
subjects, it increased. The high-fat diet was associated with body fat > 14% at 6
months (P = 0.049), but not at 12 months. This shift was due to three subjects on
the normal diet changing from Normal to Fat between 6 and 12 months. Although
maternal prepregnancy adiposity did not differ, overall, between Normal and Fat
subjects, the subjects Normal at 6 and Fat at 12 months all had Fat mothers.
Therefore, diet and maternal obesity appear to have potentially independent
effects that may also vary with developmental age. Although birth weight did not 
differ between groups, it was associated with fat mass gain from 1 to 6 months in
animals with > 14% body fat at 6 months of age (r = 0.612, P = 0.026); but not in
6-month-old animals with < 14% body fat (r = -0.012, P = 0.964). Excess adiposity
in captive marmosets develops by 1 month. Birth weight is associated with
adiposity in animals vulnerable to obesity.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.21995 
PMCID: PMC3767183
PMID: 24006544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

