

1763. Neuroscience. 2012 Apr 19;208:85-96. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.02.004.
Epub 2012 Feb 9.

Long-term polarization of microglia upon α-synuclein overexpression in nonhuman
primates.

Barkholt P(1), Sanchez-Guajardo V, Kirik D, Romero-Ramos M.

Author information: 
(1)CNS Disease Modeling Group, Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University,
Aarhus, Denmark.

We have previously shown that persistent α-synuclein overexpression in ventral
midbrain of marmoset leads to a distinctive neurodegenerative process and motor
defects. The neurodegeneration was confined to caudate putamen dopaminergic
fibers in animals overexpressing wild-type (wt) α-synuclein. However, A53T
α-synuclein overexpression induced neurodegeneration that resulted in nigral
dopaminergic cell death. Here, we analyze the microglia population in the
midbrain of these animals by stereological quantification of Iba1+ cells. Our
data here show that monkeys overexpressing A53T α-synuclein showed a long-term
increase in microglia presenting macrophagic morphology. However, wt α-synuclein 
overexpression, despite the absence of dopaminergic cell death, resulted in a
permanent robust increase of the microglia population characterized by a range of
distinct morphological types that persisted after 1 year. These results confirm
that the microglial response differs depending on the type of α-synuclein
(wt/A53T) and/or whether α-synuclein expression results in cell death or not,
suggesting that microglia may play different roles during disease progression.
Furthermore, the microglial response is modulated by events related to
α-synuclein expression in substantia nigra and persists in the long term. The
data presented here is in agreement with that previously observed in a
recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) α-synuclein rat model, thereby
validating both the findings and the model, and highlighting the translational
potential of the rodent model to higher species closer to humans.

Copyright Â© 2012 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2012.02.004 
PMID: 22342967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

