

1766. Reproduction. 2012 May;143(5):597-609. doi: 10.1530/REP-11-0215. Epub 2012 Feb 8.

Molecular signatures to define spermatogenic cells in common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Lin ZY(1), Imamura M, Sano C, Nakajima R, Suzuki T, Yamadera R, Takehara Y, Okano
HJ, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, 35
Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Germ cell development is a fundamental process required to produce offspring. The
developmental program of spermatogenesis has been assumed to be similar among
mammals. However, recent studies have revealed differences in the molecular
properties of primate germ cells compared with the well-characterized mouse germ 
cells. This may prevent simple application of rodent insights into higher
primates. Therefore, thorough investigation of primate germ cells is necessary,
as this may lead to the development of more appropriate animal models. The aim of
this study is to define molecular signatures of spermatogenic cells in the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Interestingly, NANOG, PRDM1, DPPA3 (STELLA),
IFITM3, and ZP1 transcripts, but no POU5F1 (OCT4), were detected in adult
marmoset testis. Conversely, mouse testis expressed Pou5f1 but not Nanog, Prdm1, 
Dppa3, Ifitm3, and Zp1. Other previously described mouse germ cell markers were
conserved in marmoset and mouse testes. Intriguingly, marmoset spermatogenic
cells underwent dynamic protein expression in a developmental stage-specific
manner; DDX4 (VASA) protein was present in gonocytes, diminished in
spermatogonial cells, and reexpressed in spermatocytes. To investigate epigenetic
differences between adult marmoset and mice, DNA methylation analyses identified 
unique epigenetic profiles to marmoset and mice. Marmoset NANOG and POU5F1
promoters in spermatogenic cells exhibited a methylation status opposite to that 
in mice, while the DDX4 and LEFTY1 loci, as well as imprinted genes, displayed an
evolutionarily conserved methylation pattern. Marmosets have great advantages as 
models for human reproductive biology and are also valuable as experimental
nonhuman primates; thus, the current study provides an important platform for
primate reproductive biology, including possible applications to humans.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-11-0215 
PMID: 22323619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

