

1769. J Toxicol Sci. 2012 Feb;37(1):33-49.

Metabolism of di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP): comparative study in juvenile
and fetal marmosets and rats.

Kurata Y(1), Makinodan F, Shimamura N, Katoh M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Medience Corporation, 14-1 Sunayama, Kamisu-shi, Ibaraki
314-0225, Japan. Kurata.Yoshimasa@mm.medience.co.jp

We compared the metabolic profile of di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) in
juveniles and fetus between rats and marmosets. STUDY-I: (14)C-DEHP (100 and
2,500 mg/kg) was singly administered to juvenile and adult marmosets by gavage.
C(max) of the radioactivity in juvenile marmosets was 6.45 and 31 Âµg eq./g,
respectively. The radioactivity excreted mainly into feces; however, at least 10%
of the radioactivity was absorbed even at 2,500 mg/kg. No abnormal accumulation
was observed in the male reproductive organs. STUDY-II: (14)C-DEHP (100 mg/kg)
was singly administered to juveniles of rat and marmoset. The plasma
radioactivity in marmosets was about 5% to 9% of that in rats. Free forms of
mono-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (MEHP) and its oxidized metabolites such as oxo-,
OH-, and COOH-MEHP were detected as the main compositions in rat plasma. In
marmosets, free form of MEHP was also detected as a major composition, but not
for oxidized MEHP metabolites. In rats, oxidized MEHP metabolites were excreted
into urine as unconjugated forms. MEHP and its oxidized metabolites were also
detected in marmoset urine; however, they were mostly glucuronized. No specific
accumulation of the radioactivity was noted in the testes of either species;
however, the radioactivity concentration in the marmoset testes was much lower
than that in rats. STUDY-III: (14)C-DEHP (100 mg/kg) was singly administered to
dams on gestation day 130 for marmosets and day 20 for rats. In either species,
no specific accumulation of radioactivity was noted in the testis of fetuses from
the dams treated with (14)C-DEHP; however, the radioactivity in the rat testis
was about 20-times higher than that in the marmoset. Major metabolite components 
in rat whole fetal tissue were free forms of MEHP, OH-MEHP, and oxo-MEHP. Free
form of MEHP was also detected as only a peak in the marmoset fetal tissue.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.37.33 
PMID: 22293410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

