

177. ILAR J. 2020 Dec 31;61(2-3):274-285. doi: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa029.

Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Marmoset Monkeys.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Liu C(2), Silva AC(1), Everling S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.

The use of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) for neuroscientific
research has grown markedly in the last decade. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
has played a significant role in establishing the extent of comparability of
marmoset brain architecture with the human brain and brains of other preclinical 
species (eg, macaques and rodents). As a non-invasive technique, MRI allows for
the flexible acquisition of the same sequences across different species in vivo, 
including imaging of whole-brain functional topologies not possible with more
invasive techniques. Being one of the smallest New World primates, the marmoset
may be an ideal nonhuman primate species to study with MRI. As primates,
marmosets have an elaborated frontal cortex with features analogous to the human 
brain, while also having a small enough body size to fit into powerful small-bore
MRI systems typically employed for rodent imaging; these systems offer superior
signal strength and resolution. Further, marmosets have a rich behavioral
repertoire uniquely paired with a lissencephalic cortex (like rodents). This
smooth cortical surface lends itself well to MRI and also other invasive
methodologies. With the advent of transgenic modification techniques, marmosets
have gained significant traction as a powerful complement to canonical mammalian 
modelling species. Marmosets are poised to make major contributions to
preclinical investigations of the pathophysiology of human brain disorders as
well as more basic mechanistic explorations of the brain. The goal of this
article is to provide an overview of the practical aspects of implementing MRI
and fMRI in marmosets (both under anesthesia and fully awake) and discuss the
development of resources recently made available for marmoset imaging.

Â© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. All rights reserved.
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa029 
PMCID: PMC8918195
PMID: 33631015 

