

1770. Biol Reprod. 2012 Apr 27;86(4):123. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod.111.097964. Print
2012 Apr.

ACP5 (Uteroferrin): phylogeny of an ancient and conserved gene expressed in the
endometrium of mammals.

Padua MB(1), Lynch VJ, Alvarez NV, Garthwaite MA, Golos TG, Bazer FW, Kalkunte S,
Sharma S, Wagner GP, Hansen PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Sciences and DH Barron Reproductive and Perinatal Biology
Research Program, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32611-0910, USA.

Type 5 acid phosphatase (ACP5; also known as tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 
or uteroferrin) is a metalloprotein secreted by the endometrial glandular
epithelium of pigs, mares, sheep, and water buffalo. In this paper, we describe
the phylogenetic distribution of endometrial expression of ACP5 and demonstrate
that endometrial expression arose early in evolution (i.e., before divergence of 
prototherian and therian mammals ~166 million years ago). To determine expression
of ACP5 in the pregnant endometrium, RNA was isolated from rhesus, mouse, rat,
dog, sheep, cow, horse, armadillo, opossum, and duck-billed platypus. Results
from RT-PCR and RNA-Seq experiments confirmed that ACP5 is expressed in all
species examined. ACP5 was also demonstrated immunochemically in endometrium of
rhesus, marmoset, sheep, cow, goat, and opossum. Alignment of inferred amino acid
sequences shows a high conservation of ACP5 throughout speciation, with
species-specific differences most extensive in the N-terminal and C-terminal
regions of the protein. Analysis by Selecton indicated that most of the sites in 
ACP5 are undergoing purifying selection, and no sites undergoing positive
selection were found. In conclusion, endometrial expression of ACP5 is a common
feature in all orders of mammals and has been subjected to purifying selection.
Expression of ACP5 in the uterus predates the divergence of therians and
prototherians. ACP5 is an evolutionary conserved gene that likely exerts a common
function important for pregnancy in mammals using a wide range of reproductive
strategies.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.111.097964 
PMCID: PMC3338662
PMID: 22278982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

