

1776. Reproduction. 2012 Apr;143(4):501-11. doi: 10.1530/REP-11-0091. Epub 2012 Jan 9.

Ovarian VEGF(165)b expression regulates follicular development, corpus luteum
function and fertility.

Qiu Y(1), Seager M, Osman A, Castle-Miller J, Bevan H, Tortonese DJ, Murphy D,
Harper SJ, Fraser HM, Donaldson LF, Bates DO.

Author information: 
(1)Microvascular Research Laboratories, School of Physiology and Pharmacology,
Bristol Heart Institute, Bristol BS2 8EJ, UK.

Angiogenesis and vascular regression are critical for the female ovulatory cycle.
They enable progression and regression of follicular development, and corpora
lutea formation and regression. Angiogenesis in the ovary occurs under the
control of the vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGFA) family of proteins,
which are generated as both pro-(VEGF(165)) and anti(VEGF(165)b)-angiogenic
isoforms by alternative splicing. To determine the role of the VEGF(165)b
isoforms in the ovulatory cycle, we measured VEGF(165)b expression in marmoset
ovaries by immunohistochemistry and ELISA, and used transgenic mice
over-expressing VEGF(165)b in the ovary. VEGF(165)b was expressed in the marmoset
ovaries in granulosa cells and theca, and the balance of VEGF(165)b:VEGF(165) was
regulated during luteogenesis. Mice over-expressing VEGF(165)b in the ovary were 
less fertile than wild-type littermates, had reduced secondary and tertiary
follicles after mating, increased atretic follicles, fewer corpora lutea and
generated fewer embryos in the oviduct after mating, and these were more likely
not to retain the corona radiata. These results indicate that the balance of
VEGFA isoforms controls follicle progression and luteogenesis, and that control
of isoform expression may regulate fertility in mammals, including in primates.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-11-0091 
PMCID: PMC3325318
PMID: 22232745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

