

1777. Syst Appl Microbiol. 2012 Mar;35(2):92-7. doi: 10.1016/j.syapm.2011.11.006. Epub 
2012 Jan 4.

Bifidobacterium reuteri sp. nov., Bifidobacterium callitrichos sp. nov.,
Bifidobacterium saguini sp. nov., Bifidobacterium stellenboschense sp. nov. and
Bifidobacterium biavatii sp. nov. isolated from faeces of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas).

Endo A(1), Futagawa-Endo Y, Schumann P, Pukall R, Dicks LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Stellenbosch, 7600 Stellenbosch,
South Africa. pegaman@hotmail.co.jp

Five strains of bifidobacteria were isolated from faeces of a common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and a red-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas). The five isolates
clustered inside the phylogenetic group of the genus Bifidobacterium but did not 
show high sequence similarities between the isolates and to known species in the 
genus by phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences. Sequence
analyses of dnaJ1 and hsp60 also indicated their independent phylogenetic
positions to each other in the Bifidobacterium cluster. DNA G+C contents of the
species ranged from 57.3 to 66.3 mol%, which is within the values recorded for
Bifidobacterium species. All isolates showed fructose-6-phosphate phosphoketolase
activity. Based on the data provided, the five isolates represent five novel
species, for which the names Bifidobacterium reuteri sp. nov. (type strain:
AFB22-1(T) = JCM 17295(T) = DSM 23975(T)), Bifidobacterium callitrichos sp. nov. 
(type strain: AFB22-5(T) = JCM 17296(T) = DSM 23973(T)), Bifidobacterium saguini 
sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-1(T) = JCM 17297(T) = DSM 23967(T)), Bifidobacterium
stellenboschense sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-3(T) = JCM 17298(T) = DSM 23968(T))
and Bifidobacterium biavatii sp. nov. (type strain: AFB23-4(T) = JCM 17299(T) =
DSM 23969(T)) are proposed.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.syapm.2011.11.006 
PMID: 22225994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

