

1778. Theriogenology. 2012 Apr 15;77(7):1297-311. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2011.10.035. Epub 2012 Jan 5.

Variations of chromatin, tubulin and actin structures in primate oocytes arrested
during in vitro maturation and fertilization--what is this telling us about the
relationships between cytoskeletal and chromatin meiotic defects?

Delimitreva S(1), Tkachenko OY, Berenson A, Nayudu PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany. delimitreva@yahoo.com

A nonhuman primate model was applied to investigate the relationships between
variations in the organization of microtubules, microfilaments, and chromatin in 
metaphase I and metaphase II oocytes. Marmoset oocytes were subjected to in vitro
maturation and coincubation with sperm. Oocytes which failed to cleave were
investigated for chromatin, tubulin, and actin using Hoechst 33258, fluorescein
isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled alpha-tubulin antibody and rhodamine-labeled
phalloidin, respectively. Spindles were categorized according to size, shape and 
microtubule organization: normal, large, multipolar, disorganized, absent
spindle, and spindles with broad poles. Actin caps were categorized as: normal,
small, split, and disorganized. Chromosomal condensation and alignment were
described as normal or abnormal. Improper chromosomal condensation was associated
with both abnormal microfilament and microtubule arrangement. This was further
associated with abnormal actin organization, disorientation and late
stabilization of microtubules, but not related to abnormal organization of
spindle poles. Chromosomal misalignment was associated with disorientation and
late stabilization of tubulin, but not to broad spindle pole. Additionally,
abnormal actin polarization appeared not to be related to abnormal spindle poles.
The model system presented in this study could be used as an experimental
platform for studying the contribution of different factors to the exactness of
late meiotic events in primate oocytes. The present study provides basic
information on spindle, chromosome, and actin normal and abnormal organization,
which can be observed in in vitro matured, but failed to cleave primate oocytes.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2011.10.035 
PMID: 22225695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

