

178. J Toxicol Pathol. 2021 Jan;34(1):83-88. doi: 10.1293/tox.2020-0056. Epub 2020 Nov
21.

Morphological analyses of nephrin expression in progressive glomerulonephropathy 
of common marmosets.

Yamada N(1), Doi T(1), Sato J(1), Inoue T(2), Tsuchitani M(1), Kobayashi Y(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Department, Kashima Laboratories, LSIM Safety Institute Corporation,
14-1 Sunayama, Kamisu-shi, Ibaraki, 314-0255, Japan.
(2)Marmoset Research Department, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki-shi, Kanagawa, 210-0821, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Veterinary Pathology, Division of Pathological Science,
Department of Basic Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro University of Agriculture and
Veterinary Medicine, 2-11 Inada-cho, Obihiro, Hokkaido 080-8555, Japan.

In this study, we focused on nephrin, one of the key molecules within the slit
diaphragm of podocytes, as although there have been reports on its expression in 
humans and rats, their presence in common marmosets has not been reported. We
investigated nephrin expression and changes in glomeruli, depending on the
development of spontaneous progressive glomerulonephropathy in common marmosets. 
Nineteen common marmosets at two to ten years of age were evaluated. The kidney
was examined by microscopy with hematoxylin and eosin and immunohistochemical
staining for nephrin. The lesions were classified into three grades according to 
a renal lesion grading system reported previously. The nephrin-positive area was 
measured by morphometric analysis, and the nephrin-positive ratio was calculated.
Nephrin expression was observed along the glomerular capillary loop in a
continuous linear pattern in renal lesion grades 0 to 2 and either discontinuous 
linear or coarse granular pattern in grade 3. Nephrin expression tended to
decrease significantly depending on the grade of renal lesions. Alteration in
nephrin expression has been suggested to play an important role in the
progression of renal lesions.

Â©2021 The Japanese Society of Toxicologic Pathology.

DOI: 10.1293/tox.2020-0056 
PMCID: PMC7890167
PMID: 33627947 

