

1780. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2012 Feb 1;175(3):519-26. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.12.020. 
Epub 2011 Dec 26.

Natural variation in gestational cortisol is associated with patterns of growth
in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi).

Mustoe AC(1), Birnie AK, Korgan AC, Santo JB, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA.
amustoe@unomaha.edu

High levels of prenatal cortisol have been previously reported to retard fetal
growth. Although cortisol plays a pivotal role in prenatal maturation, heightened
exposure to cortisol can result in lower body weights at birth, which have been
shown to be associated with adult diseases like hypertension and cardiovascular
disease. This study examines the relationship between natural variation in
gestational cortisol and fetal and postnatal growth in marmoset monkeys. Urinary 
samples obtained during the mother's gestation were analyzed for cortisol.
Marmoset body mass index (BMI) was measured from birth through 540 days in 30- or
60-day intervals. Multi-level modeling was used to test if marmoset growth over
time was predicted by changes in gestational cortisol controlling for time, sex, 
litter, and litter size. The results show that offspring exposed to intra-uterine
environments with elevated levels of cortisol had lower linear BMI rates of
change shortly after birth than did offspring exposed to lower levels of
cortisol, but exhibited a higher curvilinear growth rate during adolescence.
Average daily change in gestational cortisol during the first trimester had a
stronger relationship with postnatal growth than change during the third
trimester. Higher exposure to cortisol during gestation does alter developmental 
trajectories, however there appears to be a catch-up period during later
post-natal growth. These observations contribute to a larger discussion about the
relationship of maternal glucocorticoids on offspring development and the
possibility of an earlier vulnerable developmental window.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.12.020 
PMCID: PMC3268124
PMID: 22212825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

