

1781. Horm Behav. 2012 Feb;61(2):196-203. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2011.12.006. Epub 2011
Dec 22.

Stress reactivity in young marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi): ontogeny, stability,
and lack of concordance among co-twins.

French JA(1), Smith AS, Gleason AM, Birnie AK, Mustoe A, Korgan A.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, Omaha, NE 68182, USA. jfrench@unomaha.edu

Variation in response styles in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis are
known to be predictors of short- and long-term health outcomes. The nature of HPA
responses to stressors changes with developmental stage, and some components of
the stress response exhibit long-term individual consistency (i.e., are
trait-like) while others are transient or variable (i.e., state-like). Here we
evaluated the response of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi) to a
standardized social stressor (social separation and exposure to a novel
environment) at three different stages of development: juvenile, subadult, and
young adult. We monitored levels of urinary cortisol (CORT), and derived multiple
measures of HPA activity: Baseline CORT, CORT reactivity, CORT Area Under the
Curve (AUC), and CORT regulation. Juvenile marmosets exhibited the most dramatic 
stress response, had higher AUCs, and tended to show poorer regulation. While
baseline CORT and CORT regulation were not consistent within an individual across
age, CORT reactivity and measures of AUC were highly correlated across time;
i.e., individuals with high stress reactivity and AUC as juveniles also had high 
measures as subadults and adults, and vice-versa. Marmoset co-twins did not
exhibit similar patterns of stress reactivity. These data suggest that regardless
of the source of variation in stress response styles in marmosets,
individually-distinctive patterns are established by six months of age, and
persist for at least a year throughout different phases of marmoset life history.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2011.12.006 
PMCID: PMC3278562
PMID: 22210196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

