

1783. PLoS One. 2011;6(12):e28187. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028187. Epub 2011 Dec 15.

Allelic lineages of the ficolin genes (FCNs) are passed from ancestral to
descendant primates.

Hummelsh√∏j T(1), Nissen J, Munthe-Fog L, Koch C, Bertelsen MF, Garred P.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Department of Clinical Immunology,
Rigshospitalet, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen,
Denmark.

The ficolins recognize carbohydrates and acetylated compounds on microorganisms
and dying host cells and are able to activate the lectin pathway of the
complement system. In humans, three ficolin genes have been identified: FCN1,
FCN2 and FCN3, which encode ficolin-1, ficolin-2 and ficolin-3, respectively.
Rodents have only two ficolins designated ficolin-A and ficolin-B that are
closely related to human ficolin-1, while the rodent FCN3 orthologue is a
pseudogene. Ficolin-2 and ficolin-3 have so far only been observed in humans.
Thus, we performed a systematic investigation of the FCN genes in non-human
primates. The exons and intron-exon boundaries of the FCN1-3 genes were sequenced
in the following primate species: chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, rhesus macaque,
cynomolgus macaque, baboon and common marmoset. We found that the exon
organisation of the FCN genes was very similar between all the non-human primates
and the human FCN genes. Several variations in the FCN genes were found in more
than one primate specie suggesting that they were carried from one species to
another including humans. The amino acid diversity of the ficolins among human
and non-human primate species was estimated by calculating the Shannon entropy
revealing that all three proteins are generally highly conserved. Ficolin-1 and
ficolin-2 showed the highest diversity, whereas ficolin-3 was more conserved.
Ficolin-2 and ficolin-3 were present in non-human primate sera with the same
characteristic oligomeric structures as seen in human serum. Taken together all
the FCN genes show the same characteristics in lower and higher primates. The
existence of trans-species polymorphisms suggests that different FCN allelic
lineages may be passed from ancestral to descendant species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028187 
PMCID: PMC3240626
PMID: 22194813  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

