

1784. Vis Neurosci. 2011 Nov;28(6):473-84. doi: 10.1017/S0952523811000332.

Foveal cone density shows a rapid postnatal maturation in the marmoset monkey.

Springer AD(1), Troilo D, Possin D, Hendrickson AE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, New York Medical College, Valhalla,
New York 10595, USA. springer@nymc.edu

The spatial and temporal pattern of cone packing during marmoset foveal
development was explored to understand the variables involved in creating a high 
acuity area. Retinal ages were between fetal day (Fd) 125 and 6 years. Cone
density was determined in wholemounts using a new hexagonal quantification
method. Wholemounts were labeled immunocytochemically with rod markers to
identify reliably the foveal center. Cones were counted in small windows and
density was expressed as cones × 103/mm2 (K). Two weeks before birth (Fd
125-130), cone density had a flat distribution of 20-30 K across the central
retina encompassing the fovea. Density began to rise at postnatal day 1 (Pd 1)
around, but not in, the foveal center and reached a parafoveal peak of 45-55 K by
Pd 10. Between Pd 10 and 33, there was an inversion such that cone density at the
foveal center rose rapidly, reaching 283 K by 3 months and 600 K by 5.4 months.
Peak foveal density then diminished to 440 K at 6 months and older. Counts done
in sections showed the same pattern of low foveal density up to Pd 1, a rapid
rise from Pd 30 to 90, followed by a small decrease into adulthood. Increasing
foveal cone density was accompanied by 1) a reduction in the amount of Müller
cell cytoplasm surrounding each cone, 2) increased stacking of foveal cone nuclei
into a mound 6-10 deep, and 3) a progressive narrowing of the rod-free zone
surrounding the fovea. Retaining foveal cones in a monolayer precludes final
foveal cone densities above 60 K. However, high foveal adult cone density (300 K)
can be achieved by having cone nuclei stack into columns and without reducing
their nuclear diameter. Marmosets reach adult peak cone density by 3-6 months
postnatal, while macaques and humans take much longer. Early weaning and an
arboreal environment may require rapid postnatal maturation of the marmoset
fovea.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523811000332 
PMCID: PMC4487638
PMID: 22192504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

