

1785. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2012 Feb;295(2):347-54. doi: 10.1002/ar.21519. Epub 2011 Dec 
21.

Localization of papillofoveal bundles in primates.

Hiraoka M(1), Inoue K, Kawano H, Takada M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain Development, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical
Science, 2-1-6 Kamikitazawa, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 156-8506, Japan.
mari9190@true.ocn.ne.jp

Axons in the fovea are precisely organized to ensure accurate vision. We
investigated the morphologic characteristics and localization of nerve bundles in
the optic nerve in primates. Macaque eyes were studied for conventional and
immunostaining, and also marmoset eyes for carbocyanine dye tracing. Locally
confined lesions associated with similar findings to human age-related macular
degeneration (ARMD) were also evaluated. Axons of retinal ganglion cells formed
fasciculi near their origin, and these fasciculi formed bundles thereafter. In
the retinal nerve fiber layer, ascending bundles assembled stratification adding 
proximal bundle underneath successively. Bundles in the arcuate zone displayed a 
characteristic fine, parallel arrangement, whereas those in the outside zone
intermingled with undefined reticular bundles as they approached the optic nerve 
head. Macular bundles remained in groups and were distributed in the temporal
wedge of the optic nerve head. Orthograde and retrograde tracing revealed that
these bundles formed confined groups of various sizes and, ultimately, a specific
group of small bundles located in the innermost row, near the central vessels. In
addition, these bundles showed evidence of focal degenerative deterioration in
eyes with ARMD. Papillomacular bundles have a characteristic alignment and
configuration. Foveal bundles that compose the confined group closest to the
optic trunk (which we term papillofoveal bundles) appear to have functional
significance with respect to the isolated lesions that accompany central vision
loss or preservation.

Copyright Â© 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.21519 
PMID: 22190466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

