

1786. Neuropharmacology. 2012 Mar;62(4):1700-7. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2011.11.016. 
Epub 2011 Dec 8.

Neuroprotective effects of riluzole in early phase Parkinson's disease on
clinically relevant parameters in the marmoset MPTP model.

Verhave PS(1), Jongsma MJ, Van Den Berg RM, Vanwersch RA, Smit AB, Philippens IH.

Author information: 
(1)BU CBRN Protection, TNO Defence, Security and Safety, Lange Kleiweg 137, PO
Box 45, 2280 AA Rijswijk, The Netherlands. nellekeverhave@gmail.com

The present study evaluates neuroprotection in a marmoset MPTP
(1-methyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) model representing early Parkinson's
disease (PD). The anti-glutamatergic compound riluzole is used as a model
compound for neuroprotection. The compound is one of the few protective compounds
used in the clinic for a neurodegenerative disorder. Marmoset monkeys were
randomized into three groups of six: 1) an MPTP group receiving a total MPTP dose
of 7 mg/kg (4 injections over two weeks, s.c.) 2) a riluzole group receiving
besides MPTP, a twice daily dose of riluzole (10 mg/kg, p.o.), starting one week 
before MPTP and continuing for one week after the final MPTP injection and 3) a
control group receiving saline instead of MPTP and riluzole. The marmosets'
Parkinsonian symptoms were scored daily and their activity level, hand-eye
coordination, jumping behavior, axial turning and night sleep parameters were
tested and recorded weekly. At three weeks following the last MPTP challenge,
brains were dissected and dopamine levels in the striatum and the tyrosine
hydroxylase (TH) expressing dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN)
were compared. MPTP affected all behavioral parameters and sleep architecture and
induced a relatively mild (50%) decline of DA neurons in the substantia nigra
(SN). Riluzole relieved the Parkinsonian signs, and improved the hand-eye
coordination as well as turning ability. Moreover, riluzole prevented the impact 
of MPTP on sleep architecture and rapid eye movement behavioral disorder (RBD).
Riluzole also increased the number of surviving DA neurons in MPTP-treated
marmosets to 75%. However, riluzole did not prevent the MPTP-induced impairments 
on locomotor activity and jumping activity. In conclusion, reduction of
excitotoxicity by riluzole appeared to be effective in reducing progressive
neurodegeneration and relieved several clinically relevant PD symptoms in an
animal model representing the early phase of PD.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2011.11.016 
PMID: 22178201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

