

1788. Vet Pathol. 2012 Sep;49(5):839-45. doi: 10.1177/0300985811427151. Epub 2011 Dec
8.

Spontaneous glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Isobe K(1), Adachi K, Hayashi S, Ito T, Miyoshi A, Kato A, Suzuki M.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment Department, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 1-135 Komakado,
Gotemba, Shizuoka 412-8513, Japan. isobe.kaori@chugai-pharm.co.jp

Spontaneous progressive nephropathy dominated by glomerular lesions in common
marmosets has been reported. However, the histopathologic characteristics,
including the relationship between glomerular and tubulointerstitial lesions,
have not been described in detail. In the present study, the authors examined the
histopathologic characteristics of the background renal lesions in common
marmosets (3 males and 9 females, 3 to 8 years old). The severity of glomerular
lesions was graded into 3 classes: grade I, no alteration; grade II, hilar/focal 
increase of mesangial matrix; grade III, global/diffuse increase of mesangial
matrix. Tubulointerstitial lesions (tubular regeneration and hyperplasia and
interstitial inflammation and fibrosis) were scored according to the area of each
lesion. The renal lesions were characterized by enlargement of glomeruli,
expanded mesangial area with increase of periodic acid-Schiff reaction-positive
matrix, tubular regeneration and hyperplasia, and interstitial inflammation and
fibrosis. Glomerular lesions progressed with increasing mesangial matrix and
aging. Additionally, the tubulointerstitial lesions became exacerbated with
progressing glomerular lesions. Tubular hyperplasia was divided into 4 types
according to the structure of the cell layer (simple or stratified-like), the
area of increased lining cells (partial or entire), cytoplasmic staining
(eosinophilic or basophilic), brush border and thickness of basement membrane,
and the activity of cell proliferation. In conclusion, the background renal
lesions in common marmosets were characterized by glomerular lesions with
increase of mesangial matrix, which progressed with aging, and secondary
tubulointerstitial lesions, including tubular hyperplasia. Those lesions were
thus diagnosed as progressive glomerulonephropathy in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985811427151 
PMID: 22156228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

