

179. ILAR J. 2020 Dec 31;61(2-3):188-198. doi: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa025.

The Gastrointestinal Microbiota of the Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Sheh A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA, USA.

The microbiota is heavily involved in both health and disease pathogenesis, but
defining a normal, healthy microbiota in the common marmoset has been
challenging. The aim of this review was to systematically review recent
literature involving the gastrointestinal microbiome of common marmosets in
health and disease. Twelve sources were included in this review. The gut
microbiome composition was reviewed across institutions worldwide, and taxonomic 
shifts between healthy individuals were described. Unlike the human gut
microbiome, which is dominated by Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, the marmoset gut 
microbiome shows great plasticity across institutions, with 5 different phyla
described as dominant in different healthy cohorts. Genera shared across
institutions include Anaerobiospirillum, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium,
Collinsella, Fusobacterium, Megamonas, Megasphaera, Phascolarctobacterium, and
Prevotella. Shifts in the abundance of Prevotella or Bifidobacterium or invasion 
by pathogens like Clostridium perfringens may be associated with disease. Changes
in microbial composition have been described in healthy and diseased marmosets,
but factors influencing the severe changes in microbial composition have not been
established. Multi-institutional, prospective, and longitudinal studies that
utilize multiple testing methodologies are required to determine sources of
variability in the reporting of marmoset microbiomes. Furthermore, methods of
microbial manipulation, whether by diet, enrichment, fecal microbiome
transplantation, etc, need to be established to modulate and maintain robust and 
resilient microbiome communities in marmoset colonies and reduce the incidence of
idiopathic gastrointestinal disease.

Â© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. All rights reserved.
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa025 
PMCID: PMC8918151
PMID: 33620078 

