

1791. Int J Exp Pathol. 2011 Dec;92(6):428-35. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2011.00791.x.

Development of an acute model of inhalational melioidosis in the common marmoset 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Nelson M(1), Dean RE, Salguero FJ, Taylor C, Pearce PC, Simpson AJ, Lever MS.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, UK. mnelson@dstl.gov.uk

Erratum in
    Int J Exp Pathol. 2013 Feb;94(1):74.

Studies of inhalational melioidosis were undertaken in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). Following exposure to an inhaled challenge with aerosolized
Burkholderia pseudomallei, lethal infection was observed in marmosets challenged 
with doses below 10 cfu; a precise LD(50) determination was not possible. The
model was further characterized using a target challenge dose of approximately
10(2) cfu. A separate pathogenesis time-course experiment was also conducted. All
animals succumbed, between 27 and 78 h postchallenge. The challenge dose received
and the time to the humane endpoint (1 °C below normal body temperature
postfever) were correlated. The first indicator of disease was an increased core 
body temperature (T(c) ), at 22 h postchallenge. This coincided with bacteraemia 
and bacterial dissemination. Overt clinical signs were first observed 3-5 h
later. A sharp decrease (typically within 3-6 h) in the T(c) was observed prior
to humanely culling the animals in the lethality study. Pathology was noted in
the lung, liver and spleen. Disease progression in the common marmoset appears to
be consistent with human infection in terms of bacterial spread, pathology and
physiology. The common marmoset can therefore be considered a suitable animal
model for further studies of inhalational melioidosis.

© 2011 The Authors. International Journal of Experimental Pathology © 2011
International Journal of Experimental Pathology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2613.2011.00791.x 
PMCID: PMC3248079
PMID: 22122591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

