

1792. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):465-8. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr336. Epub 2011 Nov 23.

The (not necessarily) convoluted role of basal radial glia in cortical
neurogenesis.

Hevner RF(1), Haydar TF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Brain Research, Seattle Children's Research Institute, 
Seattle, WA 98101, USA. rhevner@uw.edu

Comment on
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):482-92.
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):469-81.

Recent advances in cell labeling and imaging techniques have dramatically
expanded our knowledge of the neural precursor cells responsible for
corticogenesis. In particular, radial glial cells are now known to generate
several classes of restricted progenitors and neurons. While radial glial cells
in the ventricular zone have received the most attention, it has become
increasingly clear that a distinct subclass of radial glial cells situated in the
subventricular zone (SVZ) and intermediate zone also play an important role in
corticogenesis. These delaminated radial glial cells, which lack an apical
process attached to the ventricular surface but maintain a basal process, were
discovered over 3 decades ago. Recently, they have been further characterized as 
cortical progenitors and renamed outer, intermediate, or basal radial glia (bRG).
Some of these studies indicated that bRG abundance in the outer SVZ (oSVZ) is
correlated with enhanced gyrencephaly, particularly in primates and especially
human, and therefore suggested that bRG may be responsible for the emergence and 
evolution of cerebral convolutions. In this issue of Cerebral Cortex, 2 papers
provide new information about bRG in common marmosets, a near-lissencephalic
primate, and in agouti, a near-gyrencephalic rodent (Garcia-Moreno et al. 2011;
Kelava et al. 2011). They demonstrate that bRG are abundant and proliferate in
inner as well as oSVZ, in both species. Together, these findings indicate that
bRG and the oSVZ might not be correlated with gyrification or phylogeny. Rather, 
differential regulation of bRG and other progenitor types may enhance the
adaptability and diversity of cortical morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr336 
PMCID: PMC3256413
PMID: 22116731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

