

1793. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):469-81. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr301. Epub 2011 Nov
23.

Abundant occurrence of basal radial glia in the subventricular zone of embryonic 
neocortex of a lissencephalic primate, the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Kelava I(1), Reillo I, Murayama AY, Kalinka AT, Stenzel D, Tomancak P, Matsuzaki 
F, Lebrand C, Sasaki E, Schwamborn JC, Okano H, Huttner WB, Borrell V.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, D-01307 Dresden, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):465-8.

Subventricular zone (SVZ) progenitors are a hallmark of the developing neocortex.
Recent studies described a novel type of SVZ progenitor that retains a basal
process at mitosis, sustains expression of radial glial markers, and is capable
of self-renewal. These progenitors, referred to here as basal radial glia (bRG), 
occur at high relative abundance in the SVZ of gyrencephalic primates (human) and
nonprimates (ferret) but not lissencephalic rodents (mouse). Here, we analyzed
the occurrence of bRG cells in the embryonic neocortex of the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus, a near-lissencephalic primate. bRG cells, expressing Pax6,
Sox2 (but not Tbr2), glutamate aspartate transporter, and glial fibrillary acidic
protein and retaining a basal process at mitosis, occur at similar relative
abundance in the marmoset SVZ as in human and ferret. The proportion of
progenitors in M-phase was lower in embryonic marmoset than developing ferret
neocortex, raising the possibility of a longer cell cycle. Fitting the
gyrification indices of 26 anthropoid species to an evolutionary model suggested 
that the marmoset evolved from a gyrencephalic ancestor. Our results suggest that
a high relative abundance of bRG cells may be necessary, but is not sufficient,
for gyrencephaly and that the marmoset's lissencephaly evolved secondarily by
changing progenitor parameters other than progenitor type.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr301 
PMCID: PMC3256412
PMID: 22114084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

