

1794. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):482-92. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr312. Epub 2011 Nov
23.

Compartmentalization of cerebral cortical germinal zones in a lissencephalic
primate and gyrencephalic rodent.

García-Moreno F(1), Vasistha NA, Trevia N, Bourne JA, Molnár Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX1 3QX, UK.

Comment in
    Cereb Cortex. 2012 Feb;22(2):465-8.

Previous studies of macaque and human cortices identified cytoarchitectonically
distinct germinal zones; the ventricular zone inner subventricular zone (ISVZ),
and outer subventricular zone (OSVZ). To date, the OSVZ has only been described
in gyrencephalic brains, separated from the ISVZ by an inner fiber layer and
considered a milestone that triggered increased neocortical neurogenesis.
However, this observation has only been assessed in a handful of species without 
the identification of the different progenitor populations. We examined the
Amazonian rodent agouti (Dasyprocta agouti) and the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) to further understand relationships among progenitor
compartmentalization, proportions of various cortical progenitors, and degree of 
cortical folding. We identified a similar cytoarchitectonic distinction between
the OSVZ and ISVZ at midgestation in both species. In the marmoset, we quantified
the ventricular and abventricular divisions and observed similar proportions as
previously described for the human and ferret brains. The proportions of radial
glia, intermediate progenitors, and outer radial glial cell (oRG) populations
were similar in midgestation lissencephalic marmoset as in gyrencephalic human or
ferret. Our findings suggest that cytoarchitectonic subdivisions of SVZ are an
evolutionary trend and not a primate specific feature, and a large population of 
oRG can be seen regardless of cortical folding.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr312 
PMID: 22114081  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

