

18. Front Neural Circuits. 2022 Jan 5;15:786740. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2021.786740.
eCollection 2021.

Effects of Cortical Cooling on Sound Processing in Auditory Cortex and Thalamus
of Awake Marmosets.

Jeschke M(1)(2)(3), Ohl FW(2)(4)(5), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, United States.
(2)Department Systems Physiology of Learning, Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology,
Magdeburg, Germany.
(3)Auditory Neuroscience and Optogenetics Group, Cognitive Hearing in Primates
Laboratory, German Primate Center-Leibniz Institute for Primate Research,
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Institute of Biology, Otto-von-Guericke-University Magdeburg, Magdeburg,
Germany.
(5)Center for Behavioral Brain Sciences (CBBS), Magdeburg, Germany.

The auditory thalamus is the central nexus of bottom-up connections from the
inferior colliculus and top-down connections from auditory cortical areas. While 
considerable efforts have been made to investigate feedforward processing of
sounds in the auditory thalamus (medial geniculate body, MGB) of non-human
primates, little is known about the role of corticofugal feedback in the MGB of
awake non-human primates. Therefore, we developed a small, repositionable cooling
probe to manipulate corticofugal feedback and studied neural responses in both
auditory cortex and thalamus to sounds under conditions of normal and reduced
cortical temperature. Cooling-induced increases in the width of extracellularly
recorded spikes in auditory cortex were observed over the distance of several
hundred micrometers away from the cooling probe. Cortical neurons displayed
reduction in both spontaneous and stimulus driven firing rates with decreased
cortical temperatures. In thalamus, cortical cooling led to increased spontaneous
firing and either increased or decreased stimulus driven activity. Furthermore,
response tuning to modulation frequencies of temporally modulated sounds and
spatial tuning to sound source location could be altered (increased or decreased)
by cortical cooling. Specifically, best modulation frequencies of individual MGB 
neurons could shift either toward higher or lower frequencies based on the vector
strength or the firing rate. The tuning of MGB neurons for spatial location could
both sharpen or widen. Elevation preference could shift toward higher or lower
elevations and azimuth tuning could move toward ipsilateral or contralateral
locations. Such bidirectional changes were observed in many parameters which
suggests that the auditory thalamus acts as a filter that could be adjusted
according to behaviorally driven signals from auditory cortex. Future work will
have to delineate the circuit elements responsible for the observed effects.

Copyright © 2022 Jeschke, Ohl and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2021.786740 
PMCID: PMC8766342
PMID: 35069125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

