

180. ILAR J. 2020 Dec 31;61(2-3):248-259. doi: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa028.

The Marmoset: The Next Frontier in Understanding the Development of the Human
Brain.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Rodent models, particularly mice, have dominated the field of developmental
neuroscience for decades, like they have in most fields of biomedicine research. 
However, with 80 million years since rodents and primates last shared a common
ancestor, the use of mice to model the development of the human brain is not
without many shortcomings. The human brain diverges from the mouse brain in many 
aspects and is comprised of novel structures as well as diversified cellular
subtypes. While these newly evolved features have no equivalent in rodents, they 
are observed in nonhuman primates. Therefore, elucidating the cellular mechanisms
underlying the development and maturation of the healthy and diseased human brain
can be achieved using less complex nonhuman primates. Historically, macaques were
the preferred nonhuman primate model. However, over the past decade, the New
World marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) has gained more importance,
particularly in the field of neurodevelopment. With its small size, twin or
triplet birth, and prosocial behavior, the marmoset is an ideal model to study
normal brain development as well as neurodevelopmental disorders, which are often
associated with abnormal social behaviors. The growing interest in the marmoset
has prompted many comparative studies, all demonstrating that the marmoset brain 
closely resembles that of the human and is perfectly suited to model human brain 
development. The marmoset is thus poised to extend its influence in the field of 
neurodevelopment and will hopefully fill the gaps that the mouse has left in our 
understanding of how our brain forms and how neurodevelopmental disorders
originate.

Â© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. All rights reserved.
For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar/ilaa028 
PMID: 33620074 

