

1800. J Neuroendocrinol. 2012 Mar;24(3):413-21. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02252.x.

Differential hypothalamic secretion of neurocrines in male common marmosets:
parental experience effects?

Woller MJ(1), Sosa ME, Chiang Y, Prudom SL, Keelty P, Moore JE, Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Wisconsin-Whitewater, Whitewater, WI,
USA.

Pregnancy and lactation produce a plethora of hormonal changes in females that
promote maternal care of offspring. Males in the biparental marmoset species
(Callithrix jacchus) demonstrate high levels of parenting behaviour and express
enhanced circulating reproductive hormones. Furthermore, these hormonal changes
are influenced by paternal experience. To determine whether the paternally
experienced male marmoset has altered neurocrine hypothalamic release, as the
maternal females does, we examined the release of several reproductive
neurocrines, dopamine (DA), oxytocin (OT), vasopressin (AVP) and prolactin (PRL),
in cultured explants of the hypothalamus of paternally experienced male marmosets
compared to naïve, paternally inexperienced males. DA levels secreted from the
isolated hypothalamus were significantly lower in the experienced males, whereas 
OT and PRL levels were significantly higher than levels found in inexperienced
males. PRL levels decreased rapidly in the hypothalamic media, suggesting that
PRL production occurs elsewhere. AVP levels did not change. Stimulation of the
cultured explants with oestradiol significantly decreased DA levels in the
inexperienced males but did not alter the other neurocrines, suggesting a direct 
effect of oestradiol on DA suppression in the hypothalamus. Although other
factors such as age and rearing experience with siblings may play a role in
hypothalamic neurocrine levels, these results demonstrate that paternal
experience may impact upon the secretion of neurocrines in a male biparental
primate.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Neuroendocrinology © 2011 Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02252.x 
PMCID: PMC3288632
PMID: 22070606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

