

1802. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2012 Jan;100(3):518-21. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2011.10.020. 
Epub 2011 Oct 29.

Diazepam-induced decrease in anxiety-like behaviors of marmoset monkeys exposed
to a novel open-field.

Cagni P(1), Komorowski M, Melo GC, Lima T, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Unfamiliar environments can be a source of stress, fear and anxiety for marmoset 
monkeys. In spite of existing data, the influence of putative anxiolytics on the 
effects of novel environments has yet to be tested in primates. Therefore, the
behavior of adult black tufted-ear marmosets to a single brief (15 min) exposure 
to a novel environment was analyzed in the presence and absence of diazepam
(DZP). Marmosets were pre-treated with vehicle (n=5) or diazepam (0.5 mg/kg, ip; 
n=5) and submitted to a 15 min free exploration trial within a rectangular
open-field arena. DZP-treated subjects, compared to vehicle controls,
demonstrated significantly lower rates of (phee) contact calls and exploration,
while a higher scan duration. Sojourn time in the arena's central zone was also
significantly higher in the former group and sedation was not observed. Thus,
pre-treatment with the benzodiazepine DZP decreased several anxiety-related
behaviors induced by subjecting the marmosets to a new environment. The results
also indicate that, as with rodent subjects, the open-field may provide a useful 
simple paradigm for assessing anxiety-like behaviors in this primate and, as
such, constitutes a unique opportunity for direct comparative studies between
rodents and marmoset monkeys in terms of anxiety and/or sedation.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2011.10.020 
PMID: 22067683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

