

1804. Cereb Cortex. 2012 Oct;22(10):2313-21. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhr308. Epub 2011 Nov 
7.

Differential expression patterns of striate cortex-enriched genes among Old
World, New World, and prosimian primates.

Takahata T(1), Shukla R, Yamamori T, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37240, USA.
toru.takahata@vanderbilt.edu

A group of 5 genes, OCC1, testican-1, testican-2, 5-HT1B, and 5-HT2A, are
selectively expressed in layer 4 (4C of Brodmann) of striate cortex (visual area 
V1) of both Old World macaques and New World marmoset monkeys. The expression of 
these genes is activity dependent, as expression is reduced after blocking
retinal activity. Surprisingly, the pronounced expression pattern has not been
found in rodents or carnivores. Thus, these genes may be highly expressed in V1
of some but perhaps not all primates. Here, we compared the gene expression in
members of 3 major branches of primate evolution: prosimians, New World monkeys, 
and Old World monkeys. Although the expression pattern of 5-HT1B was well
conserved, those of the other genes varied from the least distinct in prosimian
galagos to successively more in New World owl monkeys, marmosets, squirrel
monkeys, and Old World macaque monkeys. In owl monkeys, the expression of 5-HT2A 
was significantly reduced by monocular tetrodotoxin injection, while those of
OCC1 and 5-HT1B were not. Thus, we propose that early primates had low levels of 
expression and higher levels emerged with anthropoid primates and became further 
enhanced in the Old World catarrhine monkeys that are more closely related to
humans.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhr308 
PMCID: PMC3432237
PMID: 22065864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

