

181. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2021 Feb 22;15(2):e0009016. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0009016. eCollection 2021 Feb.

The lymphatic system as a potential mechanism of spread of melioidosis following 
ingestion of Burkholderia pseudomallei.

Nelson M(1), Nunez A(2), Ngugi SA(1), Atkins TP(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton Down,
Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Animal and Plant Health Agency, Weybridge, Addlestone, Surrey, United Kingdom.

Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of melioidosis, which is a Gram 
negative, facultative intracellular bacterium. Disease is prevalent in SE Asia
and in northern Australia, as well as in other tropical and subtropical regions. 
Recently, there is an increasing awareness of the importance of bacterial
ingestion as a potential route of infection, particularly in cases of unexplained
origin of the disease. The marmoset is a New World Monkey (NWM) species that is
being developed as an alternative NHP model to complement the more traditionally 
used Old World Monkeys (OWM). Models have been developed for the traditional
routes of disease acquisition, subcutaneous and inhalational. This manuscript
details the development and characterisation of an ingestion model of
melioidosis. Dose-ranging study assessed the lethality of B. pseudomallei and
disease progression was assessed by euthanizing animals at predetermined time
points, 12, 36, 48 and 54 hours post-challenge. Challenge doses of greater than
6.2 x 106 cfu resulted in an acute, lethal, febrile disease. Following challenge 
the lung was the first organ, outside of the gastrointestinal tract, to become
colonised. Enteritis (duodenitis, ileitis and/or jejunitis) was observed in
sections of the small intestine from animals that succumbed to disease. However, 
the most severe pathological features were observed in the mesenteric lymph nodes
from these animals. These findings are consistent with lymphatic draining as
route of dissemination.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0009016 
PMCID: PMC7932547
PMID: 33617546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

