

1810. Behav Processes. 2012 Feb;89(2):121-7. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.10.002. Epub
2011 Oct 21.

Intertemporal choice in lemurs.

Stevens JR(1), Mühlhoff N.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Adaptive Behavior and Cognition, Max Planck Institute for Human
Development, Lentzeallee 94, 14195 Berlin, Germany. jeffrey.r.stevens@gmail.com

Different species vary in their ability to wait for delayed rewards in
intertemporal choice tasks. Models of rate maximization account for part of this 
variation, but other factors such as social structure and feeding ecology seem to
underly some species differences. Though studies have evaluated intertemporal
choice in several primate species, including Old World monkeys, New World
monkeys, and apes, prosimians have not been tested. This study investigated
intertemporal choices in three species of lemur (black-and-white ruffed lemurs,
Varecia variegata, red ruffed lemurs, Varecia rubra, and black lemurs, Eulemur
macaco) to assess how they compare to other primate species and whether their
choices are consistent with rate maximization. We offered lemurs a choice between
two food items available immediately and six food items available after a delay. 
We found that by adjusting the delay to the larger reward, the lemurs were
indifferent between the two options at a mean delay of 17 s, ranging from 9 to 25
s. These data are comparable to data collected from common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus). The lemur data were not consistent with models of rate maximization.
The addition of lemurs to the list of species tested in these tasks will help
uncover the role of life history and socio-ecological factors influencing
intertemporal choices.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.10.002 
PMID: 22024661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

