

1813. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2012 Mar;7(1):253-65. doi: 10.1007/s11481-011-9320-5.
Epub 2011 Oct 20.

Discrepant effects of human interferon-gamma on clinical and immunological
disease parameters in a novel marmoset model for multiple sclerosis.

Jagessar SA(1), Gran B, Heijmans N, Bauer J, Laman JD, 't Hart BA, Constantinescu
CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The core pathogenic process in the common marmoset model of multiple sclerosis
(MS) is the activation of memory-like T cells specific for peptide 34 to 56
derived from the extracellular domain of myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG(34-56)). Immunization with MOG(34-56) in incomplete Freund's adjuvant is a
sufficient stimulus for in vivo activation of these T cells, together with the
induction of MS-like disease and CNS pathology. Ex vivo functional
characteristics of MOG(34-56) specific T cells are specific cytolysis of peptide 
pulsed target cells and high IL-17A production. To indentify possible functions
in this new model of T helper 1 cells, which play a central pathogenic role in MS
models induced with complete Freund's adjuvant, we tested the effect of human
interferon-γ (IFNγ) administration during disease initiation of the disease (day 
0-25) and around the time of disease expression (psd 56-81). The results show a
clear modulatory effect of early IFNγ treatment on humoral and cellular
autoimmune parameters, but no generalized mitigating effect on the disease
course. These results argue against a prominent pathogenic role of T helper 1
cells in this new marmoset EAE model.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-011-9320-5 
PMCID: PMC3280389
PMID: 22012268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

