

1814. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2011 Nov;70(11):992-1005. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e318234d421.

B-cell depletion attenuates white and gray matter pathology in marmoset
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

Kap YS(1), Bauer J, Driel Nv, Bleeker WK, Parren PW, Kooi EJ, Geurts JJ, Laman
JD, Craigen JL, Blezer E, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk.
kap@bprc.nl

This study investigated the effect of CD20-positive B-cell depletion on central
nervous system (CNS) white and gray matter pathology in experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis in common marmosets, a relevant preclinical model of multiple
sclerosis. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis was induced in 14 marmosets 
by immunization with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in
complete Freund adjuvant. At 21 days after immunization, B-cell depletion was
achieved by weekly intravenous injections of HuMab 7D8, a human-anti-human CD20
antibody that cross-reacts with marmoset CD20. In vivo magnetic resonance imaging
showed widespread brain white matter demyelination in control marmosets that was 
absent in CD20 antibody-treated marmosets. High-contrast postmortem magnetic
resonance imaging showed white matter lesions in 4of the 7 antibody-treated
marmosets, but these were significantly smaller than those in controls. The same 
technique revealed gray matter lesions in 5 control marmosets, but none in
antibody-treated marmosets. Histologic analysis confirmed that inflammation,
demyelination, and axonal damage were substantially reduced in brain, spinal
cord, and optic nerves of CD20 antibody-treated marmosets. In conclusion,
CD20-postive B-cell depletion by HuMab 7D8 profoundly reduced the development of 
both white and gray matter lesions in the marmoset CNS. These data underline the 
central role of B cells in CNS inflammatory-demyelinating disease.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e318234d421 
PMID: 22002426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

