

1818. Primates. 2012 Jan;53(1):65-70. doi: 10.1007/s10329-011-0277-z. Epub 2011 Oct 7.

Use of water sources by buffy-headed marmosets (Callithrix flaviceps) at two
sites in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest.

Ferrari SF(1), Hilário RR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Universidade Federal de Sergipe, Av. Marechal Rondon
s/n, Jardim Rosa Elze, São Cristóvão, SE 49.100-000, Brazil. ferrari@pq.cnpq.br

Many primates are able to satisfy most of their water requirements from the
liquid content of their food, but almost all need to visit external water sources
during critical periods. The present study analyses the use of water sources in
two free-ranging groups of buffy-headed marmosets (Caratinga and RBAR groups)
over an annual cycle. At both sites, a large proportion of the days had no
visits, and the visitation rate fell by approximately half in the wet season.
Differences between sites appear to reflect both contrasts in habitat structure
and the composition of the diet. Despite inhabiting a more humid environment, for
example, the RBAR group visited water sources on a significantly larger
proportion of days than the Caratinga group. While 94.2% of the records for the
RBAR group involved bromeliads, this type of source was not recorded at
Caratinga, where terrestrial sources were used relatively frequently. Seasonal
variation indicates that arboreal sources are preferred over terrestrial ones at 
both sites, and that rivers are used as a last resort, when other sources are
scarce. The use of terrestrial sources involves cautious and coordinated group
behaviour, which presumably reflects the perceived predation risk. Overall, the
relatively frequent use of watering sites in the RBAR group might be related to
its highly fungivorous diet, in comparison with the more typical gummivorous diet
of the Caratinga group, although the exact implications of this difference are
not clear from the available data.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-011-0277-z 
PMID: 21979882  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

