

1826. J Physiol. 2011 Dec 1;589(Pt 23):5741-58. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.213520. Epub
2011 Sep 26.

Visual motion integration by neurons in the middle temporal area of a New World
monkey, the marmoset.

Solomon SS(1), Tailby C, Gharaei S, Camp AJ, Bourne JA, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science, School of Medical Sciences and
Bosch Institute, University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

The middle temporal area (MT/V5) is an anatomically distinct region of primate
visual cortex that is specialized for the processing of image motion. It is
generally thought that some neurons in area MT are capable of signalling the
motion of complex patterns, but this has only been established in the macaque
monkey. We made extracellular recordings from single units in area MT of
anaesthetized marmosets, a New World monkey. We show through quantitative
analyses that some neurons (35 of 185; 19%) are capable of signalling pattern
motion ('pattern cells'). Across several dimensions, the visual response of
pattern cells in marmosets is indistinguishable from that of pattern cells in
macaques. Other neurons respond to the motion of oriented contours in a pattern
('component cells') or show intermediate properties. In addition, we encountered 
a subset of neurons (22 of 185; 12%) insensitive to sinusoidal gratings but very 
responsive to plaids and other two-dimensional patterns and otherwise
indistinguishable from pattern cells. We compared the response of each cell class
to drifting gratings and dot fields. In pattern cells, directional selectivity
was similar for gratings and dot fields; in component cells, directional
selectivity was weaker for dot fields than gratings. Pattern cells were more
likely to have stronger suppressive surrounds, prefer lower spatial frequencies
and prefer higher speeds than component cells. We conclude that pattern motion
sensitivity is a feature of some neurons in area MT of both New and Old World
monkeys, suggesting that this functional property is an important stage in motion
analysis and is likely to be conserved in humans.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2011.213520 
PMCID: PMC3249047
PMID: 21946851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

