

1827. Physiol Behav. 2012 Jan 18;105(2):510-21. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.09.004.
Epub 2011 Sep 14.

Simultaneous measurement of endogenous steroid hormones and their metabolites
with LC-MS/MS in faeces of a New World primate species, Cebus capucinus.

Weltring A(1), Schaebs FS, Perry SE, Deschner T.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Department of Primatology,
Deutscher Platz 6, 04103 Leipzig, Germany. anja_weltring@eva.mpg.de

We developed and validated a method to measure steroid hormones with liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in faecal samples of
white-faced capuchins. The method includes the measurement of adrenal and gonadal
hormones such as cortisol, testosterone, estrone, progesterone and a number of
their faecal metabolites. This method can be used for simultaneous routine
measurements of steroids in faecal samples and provides a reference method for
the validation of new immunoassays in this matrix. The optimised method consists 
of an extraction of the dried faecal samples with 80% methanol followed by
purification of the extracts by solid phase extraction, solvolytic cleavage of
conjugates and liquid-liquid extraction. Extracts were measured by LC-MS/MS with 
an electrospray interface in positive ionisation mode. Out of 19 steroids spiked 
into methanol extracts, 14 showed a recovery of 79.8-118.5% with an intra-day
precision of 2.5-13.0% and an inter-day precision of 7.2-15.1%. Detection limits 
for these steroids ranged from 0.3 to 27.0 ng/mL of extract. Five steroids did
not fulfil our requirements concerning precision and accuracy and we therefore
considered these to not be reliably measurable with this method. While there was 
no indication of considerable amounts of conjugated forms for most metabolites,
87% of the testosterone was found in the solvolysis fraction, which indicates
that the majority of testosterone was conjugated. Therefore, solvolysis turned
out to be crucial, especially for the quantification of the total amount of
testosterone. The physiological validation of this LC-MS/MS method confirmed
known physiologically caused differences in faecal steroid concentrations. This
indicates the usefulness of the method in investigating variation in the levels
of major steroid hormones in faeces of white-faced capuchins. The possibility to 
simultaneously measure hormones of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis 
and the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis makes this method suitable for 
dealing with questions concerning the cross talk between those axes.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.09.004 
PMID: 21945370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

