

1828. J Neurosci Methods. 2012 Jan 15;203(1):28-40. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.09.004. Epub 2011 Sep 12.

Wireless multi-channel single unit recording in freely moving and vocalizing
primates.

Roy S(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

The ability to record well-isolated action potentials from individual neurons in 
naturally behaving animals is crucial for understanding neural mechanisms
underlying natural behaviors. Traditional neurophysiology techniques, however,
require the animal to be restrained which often restricts natural behavior. An
example is the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World
primate species, used in our laboratory to study the neural correlates of vocal
production and sensory feedback. When restrained by traditional
neurophysiological techniques marmoset vocal behavior is severely inhibited.
Tethered recording systems, while proven effective in rodents pose limitations in
arboreal animals such as the marmoset that typically roam in a three-dimensional 
environment. To overcome these obstacles, we have developed a wireless neural
recording technique that is capable of collecting single-unit data from
chronically implanted multi-electrodes in freely moving marmosets. A lightweight,
low power and low noise wireless transmitter (headstage) is attached to a
multi-electrode array placed in the premotor cortex of the marmoset. The wireless
headstage is capable of transmitting 15 channels of neural data with
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) comparable to a tethered system. To minimize
radio-frequency (RF) and electro-magnetic interference (EMI), the experiments
were conducted within a custom designed RF/EMI and acoustically shielded chamber.
The individual electrodes of the multi-electrode array were periodically advanced
to densely sample the cortical layers. We recorded single-unit data over a period
of several months from the frontal cortex of two marmosets. These recordings
demonstrate the feasibility of using our wireless recording method to study
single neuron activity in freely roaming primates.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.09.004 
PMCID: PMC3848526
PMID: 21933683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

