

1831. Cancer Sci. 2011 Dec;102(12):2221-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2011.02098.x. Epub
2011 Sep 30.

DNA ligand designed to antagonize EBNA1 represses Epstein-Barr virus-induced
immortalization.

Yasuda A(1), Noguchi K, Minoshima M, Kashiwazaki G, Kanda T, Katayama K,
Mitsuhashi J, Bando T, Sugiyama H, Sugimoto Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemotherapy, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transforms human B lymphocytes into immortalized cells
in vitro and is associated with various malignancies in vivo. EBNA1, which is
expressed in the majority of EBV-infected cells, recognizes specific DNA
sequences at the cis-acting latent origin of plasmid replication (oriP) element
of the EBV genome. EBNA1 plays a critical role in the viral episome maintenance
and transactivates viral transforming genes in latently infected cells.
Therefore, DNA-targeting agents that can disrupt the EBNA1-oriP interaction will 
offer novel functional inhibitors of EBNA1. Pyrrole-imidazole polyamides,
sequence-specific DNA ligands, can be designed to interfere with the binding of
various transcriptional factors. Here, we synthesized pyrrole-imidazole
polyamides targeting EBNA1-bound DNA sequences and developed an inhibitor for the
EBNA1-oriP interaction. A pyrrole-imidazole polyamide, designated as DSE-3, bound
adjacent to the EBNA1 recognition sequences located in the dyad symmetry element 
of oriP, and selectively inhibited EBNA1-oriP binding both in vitro and in vivo. 
DSE-3 also inhibited the proliferation of established lymphoblastoid cell lines
by eradicating EBV episomes from the cells. In addition, DSE-3 repressed the
expression of viral transforming genes after infecting human peripheral blood
mononuclear cells with EBV and, as a consequence, inhibited EBV-mediated B-cell
immortalization. These results suggest that EBNA1 functions will be an attractive
pharmacological target for EBV-associated diseases.

Â© 2011 Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.2011.02098.x 
PMID: 21910783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

