

1834. Braz J Biol. 2011 Aug;71(3):569-75.

Population parameters of the endangered titi monkey, Callicebus coimbrai
Kobayashi and Langguth, 1999, in the fragmented landscape of southern Sergipe,
Brazil.

Chagas RR(1), Ferrari SF.

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Desenvolvimento e Meio Ambiente, Universidade
Federal de Sergipe, São Cristóvão, SE, Brazil. renata_deda118@hotmail.com

The recently-discovered titi, Callicebus coimbrai, is endemic to the coastal
Brazilian Atlantic Forest south of the São Francisco River, a region with a long 
tradition of deforestation. While a number of C. coimbrai populations have now
been identified, little is known about basic population parameters. Considering
the importance of this information for conservation planning, the population of a
site in southern Sergipe (with a total area of forest of approximately 500 ha)
was surveyed between April and October 2008. Standard line transect procedures
were used in the four largest fragments, and additional monitoring included the
use of playback broadcasts for the observation of titi groups. The presence of
titis was confirmed in all the forest fragments at the site, including one of
only five hectares. Two other primates - Callithrix jacchus and Cebus
xanthosternos - were also recorded at the site, but were less abundant than
titis. A total transect walk of 476 km provided 164 sightings of primates, the
majority of which (104) were of Callicebus coimbrai. Titi groups ranged in size
between two and five individuals. The most reliable estimate of overall
population density, derived from the combined data set, was 12.6 individuals per 
km²;, although density was much higher in smaller (more disturbed) fragments. The
total population of Callicebus coimbrai at the site was estimated to be at least 
50 individuals, which may represent a considerable proportion of the population
of the species remaining in the wild. In addition to its apparent tolerance of
habitat fragmentation, densities of C. coimbrai recorded at the site compare
favourably with those of other Atlantic Forest titi species.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842011000400001 
PMID: 21881780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

