

1837. Eur J Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(6):1006-17. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07813.x.
Epub 2011 Aug 16.

Contribution of the amygdala, but not orbitofrontal or medial prefrontal
cortices, to the expression of flavour preferences in marmoset monkeys.

Agustín-Pavón C(1), Parkinson J, Man MS, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.

The development of food preferences contributes to a balanced diet, and involves 
both innate and learnt factors. By associating flavour cues with the reinforcing 
properties of the food (i.e. postingestive nutrient cues and innately preferred
tastes, such as sweetness), animals acquire individual preferences. How the brain
codes and guides selection when the subject has to choose between different
palatable foods is little understood. To investigate this issue, we trained
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) to respond to abstract visual
patterns on a touch-sensitive computer screen to gain access to four different
flavoured juices. After preferences were stable, animals received excitotoxic
lesions of either the amygdala, the orbitofrontal cortex or the medial prefrontal
cortex. Neither the orbitofrontal nor the medial prefrontal cortex lesions
affected pre-surgery-expressed flavour preferences or the expression of
preferences for novel flavours post-surgery. In contrast, amygdala lesions caused
a shift in the preferences for juices expressed pre-surgery such that,
post-surgery, juices were chosen according to their overall carbohydrate (simple 
sugars) content or 'sweetness'. Subsequent tests revealed that amygdala-lesioned 
animals only expressed juice preferences if they differed in 'sweetness'. Unlike 
controls, orbitofrontal cortex-lesioned and medial prefrontal cortex-lesioned
animals, they were unable to display preferences between juices matched for
'sweetness' i.e. 5% sucrose solutions aromatised with different essential oils.
The most parsimonious explanation is that the amygdala contributes to the
expression of food preferences based on learnt cues but not those based on an
innate preference for sweetness.

© 2011 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2011 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07813.x 
PMID: 21848920  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

