

1838. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 Aug 30;108(35):14659-63. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1108004108. Epub 2011 Aug 15.

Slow intrinsic rhythm in the koniocellular visual pathway.

Cheong SK(1), Tailby C, Martin PR, Levitt JB, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence in Vision Science and Save
Sight Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2001, Australia.

Slow rhythmic changes in nerve-cell activity are characteristic of unconscious
brain states and also may contribute to waking brain function by coordinating
activity between cortical and subcortical structures. Here we show that slow
rhythms are exhibited by the koniocellular (K) pathway, one of three visual
pathways beginning in the eye and projecting through the lateral geniculate
visual relay nucleus to the cerebral cortex. We recorded activity in pairs and
ensembles of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of anesthetized marmoset
monkeys. We found slow rhythms are common in K cells but are rare in
parvocellular and magnocellular cell pairs. The time course of slow K rhythms
corresponds to subbeta (<10 Hz) EEG frequencies, and high spike rates in K cells 
are associated with low power in the theta and delta EEG bands. By contrast,
spontaneous activity in the parvocellular and magnocellular pathways is neither
synchronized nor strongly linked to EEG state. These observations suggest that
parallel visual pathways not only carry different kinds of visual signals but
also contribute differentially to brain circuits at the first synapse in the
thalamus. Differential contribution of sensory streams to rhythmic brain circuits
also raises the possibility that sensory stimuli can be tailored to modify brain 
rhythms.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1108004108 
PMCID: PMC3167552
PMID: 21844334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

