

1839. J Neurosci Methods. 2011 Sep 30;201(1):159-72. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.07.029. Epub 2011 Aug 6.

Multimodal vessel mapping for precise large area alignment of functional optical 
imaging data to neuroanatomical preparations in marmosets.

Valverde Salzmann MF(1), Wallace DJ, Logothetis NK, Schüz A.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, Spemannstrasse 38, 72076
Tübingen, Germany. matthias.valverde@tuebingen.mpg.de

Imaging technologies, such as intrinsic optical imaging (IOI), functional
magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) or multiphoton microscopy provide excellent
opportunities to study the relationship between functional signals recorded from 
a cortical area and the underlying anatomical structure. This, in turn, requires 
accurate alignment of the recorded functional imaging data with histological
datasets from the imaged tissue obtained after the functional experiment. This
alignment is complicated by distortions of the tissue which naturally occur
during histological treatment, and is particularly difficult to achieve over
large cortical areas, such as primate visual areas. We present here a method that
uses IOI vessel maps revealed in the time course of the intrinsic signal, in
combination with vascular casts and vascular lumen labeling techniques together
with a pseudo three dimensional (p3D) reconstruction of the tissue architecture
in order to facilitate alignment of IOI data with posthoc histological datasets. 
We demonstrate that by such a multimodal vessel mapping approach, we are able to 
constitute a hook in anatomical-functional data alignment that enables the
accurate assignment of functional signals over large cortical regions. As an
example, we present precise alignments of IOI responses showing orientation
selectivity of primate V1 with anatomical sections stained for
cytochrome-oxidase-reactivity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2011.07.029 
PMID: 21843550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

