

1840. J Mol Endocrinol. 2011 Oct 24;47(3):285-98. doi: 10.1530/JME-11-0026. Print 2011 
Dec.

A novel two-promoter-one-gene system of the chorionic gonadotropin β gene enables
tissue-specific expression.

Adams C(1), Henke A, Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproduction and
Andrology, University Hospital Münster, Domagkstrasse 11, 48129 Münster, Germany.

The New World monkey (NWM), Callithrix jacchus, a preferred model in medical
research, displays an interesting endocrine regulation of reproduction: LH, the
heterodimeric glycoprotein hormone, is functionally replaced by the chorionic
gonadotropin (CG), a hormone indispensable for establishment of pregnancy in
humans and normally expressed in the placenta. In the marmoset pituitary, the
expression of the β-subunit (CGB) gene is regulated similar to human LH
β-subunit, but its placental regulation is unknown. This study intended to
decipher the underlying mechanism of tissue-specific expression of CGB in the
marmoset placenta. We identified a new placental transcriptional start site,
described a new, previously undiscovered exon, and define a novel placental core 
promoter in the marmoset CGB gene. This promoter contains a TATA box and binding 
sites for activating protein 2 and selective promoter factor 1, the latter acting
synergistically by forming a regulation cassette. Differential first exon usage
directed the tissue-specific expression. Methylation analyses revealed a
tissue-specific pattern in the placental promoter indicating additional
epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Our findings point toward a hitherto
unknown evolutionary plasticity in the LH/CG hormonal system in NWM, which could 
be used as a model to study human CGB regulation in clinical pathologies.

© 2011 Society for Endocrinology

DOI: 10.1530/JME-11-0026 
PMID: 21821715  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

