

1841. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2011 Nov 1;174(2):71-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.07.004.
Epub 2011 Jul 29.

Ultrastructural analysis, zinc transporters, glucose transporters and hormones
expression in New world primate (Callithrix jacchus) and human pancreatic islets.

Mohanasundaram D(1), Drogemuller C, Brealey J, Jessup CF, Milner C, Murgia C,
Lang CJ, Milton A, Zalewski PD, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Central Northern Adelaide Renal and Transplantation Services, South Australian
and Northern Territory Islet Program and Australian Islet Consortium, Royal
Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, Australia.

The New world primates (NWP) Callithrix jacchus separated from man approximately 
50 million years ago and is a potential alternative small non-human primate model
for diabetes research. Ultrastructure, and gene expression of pancreatic islets
and the recently described diabetes auto antigenic zinc transporters families in 
human, NWP and pig pancreas were studied. Morphologically NWP islets were larger 
than pig islets and similar in size to human islets. NWP islets alpha cells had
high dense core surrounded by a limiting membrane, beta cells by the mixed
morphology of the granule core, and delta cells by moderate opaque core. Antibody
staining for insulin, glucagon, somatostatin and Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
showed that the distribution pattern of the different cell types within islets
was comparable to pig and human islets. In all three species protein expression
of zinc transporter ZnT8 was detected in most of the insulin producing beta cells
whereas Zip14 expression was widely expressed in alpha and beta cells. In both
human and NWP little or no expression of Glut2 was observed compared to Glut1 and
glucokinase at the protein level, however the messenger RNA level of Glut2 was
greater than Glut1 and glucokinase. In contrast all three glucose transporters
were expressed in pig islets at the protein level. The expression of Zip14 in
islets is reported for the first time. In conclusion NWP pancreatic islets
express comparable islet cell types and distribution to humans and pigs.
Importantly, marmosets have a similar glucose transporter profile to humans,
making this non-endangered primate species a useful animal model for pancreatic
biology.

Crown Copyright Â© 2011. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2011.07.004 
PMID: 21821034  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

