

1848. J Comp Pathol. 2012 Feb-Apr;146(2-3):230-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2011.06.003.
Epub 2011 Jul 23.

The pathology of experimental poxvirus infection in common marmosets (Callithrix 
jacchus): further characterization of a new primate model for orthopoxvirus
infections.

Mätz-Rensing K(1), Stahl-Hennig C, Kramski M, Pauli G, Ellerbrok H, Kaup FJ.

Author information: 
(1)German Primate Center (DPZ), Göttingen, Germany. kmaetz@gwdg.de

Zoonotic orthopoxvirus (OPV) can induce severe disease in man and the virus has
potential for use in bioterrorism. New vaccines and therapeutics against OPV
infections must be tested in animal models. The aim of this study was to
characterize the clinical course and pathology of a new OPV isolate, calpox
virus, which is infectious in marmosets. Infection experiments were performed
with 28 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) exposed to different challenge
doses of calpox virus by the intravenous, oropharyngeal and intranasal (IN)
routes. The median marmoset IN infectious dose corresponded to 8.3 × 10(2)plaque 
forming units of calpox virus. Infected animals developed reproducible clinical
signs and died within 4-15 days post infection. Characteristic pox-like lesions
developed in affected organs, particularly in the skin, mucous membranes, lymph
nodes, liver and spleen. Calpox virus disease progression and pathological
findings in the common marmoset appear to be consistent with lethal OPV
infections in man and in other non-human primate (NHP) models. IN inoculation
with low virus doses mimics the natural route of the human variola virus
infection. Thus, the marmoset model of calpox virus infection can be considered
to be relevant to investigation of the mechanisms of OPV pathogenesis and
pathology and for the evaluation of new vaccines and antiviral therapies.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2011.06.003 
PMID: 21783202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

