

1850. Stem Cells. 2011 Sep;29(9):1448-58. doi: 10.1002/stem.692.

The adult mouse dentate gyrus contains populations of committed progenitor cells 
that are distinct from subependymal zone neural stem cells.

Clarke L(1), van der Kooy D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
laura.clarke@utoronto.ca

There is currently a debate as to whether or not a neural stem cell (NSC) exists 
in the adult mammalian hippocampus. Clonal colony-forming assays allow single
cells to cells to be evaluated for stem cell properties: self-renewal and
multipotentiality. In these in vitro assays, single cells from the subependymal
zone (SEZ) of the adult lateral ventricle yield large colonies which self-renew
and are multipotential, while single cells from the adult dentate gyrus (DG)
produce small, unipotent, and nonself-renewing colonies. We find that
multipotential and long-term self-renewing colonies can be isolated only from the
early embryonic hippocampus, before the formation of the DG. No movement of
progenitors from the postnatal SEZ to the newly forming DG subgranular zone is
detected and adult DG colonies in vitro originate from the embryonic hippocampal 
primordium. These data support a model where embryonic hippocampal NSCs change
their properties as the organism ages. When adult DG spheres are cocultured with 
embryonic brain slices, self-renewal (but not multipotentiality) is restored and 
maintained for several passages off of slices. Adult clonal DG spheres grown on
embryonic brain slices or transplanted into brains of neonatal mice do not give
rise to neurons. Neurons arise from separate, small clones that are approximately
10 times more frequent than sphere colonies in vitro and may be responsible for
maintaining neurogenesis in the adult in vivo. We propose that there are separate
glial and neuronal clones in the adult hippocampus, with glial progenitors being 
the most proliferative in culture.

Copyright Â© 2011 AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1002/stem.692 
PMID: 21774038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

