

1854. Am J Primatol. 2011 Oct;73(10):1072-81. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20975. Epub 2011 Jul 11.

Female marmosets' behavioral and hormonal responses to unfamiliar intruders.

Ross CN(1), French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health
Science Center, San Antonio, USA. rossc4@uthscsa.edu

The endocrine control mechanisms for female mammalian aggression have been
largely unstudied. Although it has been proposed that androgens may modulate
female aggressive behavior in a similar manner to males, very little conclusive
evidence exists. Previous work in male marmosets found that post-encounter
increases in testosterone (T) were dependent on the intensity of aggression
displayed during the aggressive encounter. We exposed female marmosets
(Callithrix kuhlii), a monogamous and biparental primate, to aggressive
interactions with unfamiliar intruders. Individual female marmosets exhibited
changes in T and estradiol (E(2) ) that are associated with aggressiveness
dependent on the intensity of aggression displayed as well as their role during
the encounter. Resident females exhibited increased E(2) immediately following an
encounter in which they displayed high rates of aggression. If resident females
received high rates of aggression from the intruder, the resident displayed
increased T 24 hr following the encounter. Interestingly, if the female was an
intruder in the encounter, the intensity of her aggression was associated with
increased cortisol immediately following the trials, whereas received aggression 
was associated with increased T and E(2) immediately following the trial. Female 
primates do exhibit situation-dependent changes in gonadal steroids in
association with aggression that may serve to prime them for future aggressive
interactions.

© 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20975 
PMCID: PMC6000820
PMID: 21748772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

