

1859. Lipids Health Dis. 2011 Jul 1;10:111. doi: 10.1186/1476-511X-10-111.

Induction of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lytic cycle in vitro causes lipid
peroxidation, protein oxidation and DNA damage in lymphoblastoid B cell lines.

Gargouri B(1), Nasr R, Mseddi M, Benmansour R, Lassoued S.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Biotechnologie et Pathologies, Institut Supérieur de Biotechnologie
de Sfax, Tunisia. bochra.gargouri@yahoo.fr.

BACKGROUND: We investigated the oxidative modifications of lipids, proteins and
DNA, potential molecular targets of oxidative stress, in two lymphoblastoid cell 
lines: B95-8 and Raji, after EBV lytic cycle induction. Conjugated dienes level
was measured as biomarker of lipid peroxidation. Malondialdehyde adduct and
protein carbonyl levels, as well as protein thiol levels were measured as
biomarkers of protein oxidation. DNA fragmentation was evaluated as biomarker of 
DNA oxidation.
RESULTS: After 48 h (peak of lytic cycle), a significant increase in conjugated
dienes level was observed in B95-8 and Raji cell lines (p = 0.0001 and p = 0.019 
respectively). Malondialdehyde adduct, protein carbonyl levels were increased in 
B95-8 and Raji cell lines after EBV lytic cycle induction as compared to controls
(MDA-adduct: p = 0.008 and p = 0.006 respectively; Carbonyl: p = 0.003 and p =
0.0039 respectively). Proteins thiol levels were decreased by induction in B95-8 
and Raji cell lines (p = 0.046; p = 0.002 respectively). DNA fragmentation was
also detected in B95-8 and Raji cell lines after EBV lytic cycle induction as
compared to controls.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study demonstrate the presence of increased
combined oxidative modifications in lipids, proteins in B95-8 and Raji cells
lines after EBV lytic cycle induction. These results suggest that lipid
peroxidation, protein oxidation and DNA fragmentation are generally induced
during EBV lytic cycle induction and probably contribute to the cytopathic effect
of EBV.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-511X-10-111 
PMCID: PMC3146848
PMID: 21722381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

