

1862. Eur J Neurosci. 2011 Jul;34(2):303-19. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07744.x.
Epub 2011 Jun 30.

Subcortical projections to the frontal pole in the marmoset monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Reser DH, Richardson KE, Gaulke H, Worthy KH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Vic. 3800, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

The subcortical projections to the marmoset frontal pole were mapped with the use
of fluorescent tracer injections. The main thalamic projections, which originated
in both the magnocellular and parvocellular subdivisions of the mediodorsal
nucleus, were topographically organized. Our results suggest the existence of a
third, caudal subdivision of this nucleus, which is likely to be homologous to
the macaque's pars densocellularis. A substantial, but not topographically
organized, projection to Brodmann's area 10 originated in the medial part of the 
ventral anterior nucleus. Minor thalamic projections originated in the medial
pulvinar nucleus and in the midline/intralaminar nuclei. Finally, the posterior
thalamic group (including the limitans and suprageniculate nuclei) sent a small
projection to rostral area 10 that has not previously been documented in
primates. The main extrathalamic projections stemmed from the claustrum, which
contained as many as 50% of all subcortical labelled neurons. Minor connections
originated in the hypothalamus (mainly in the lateral anterior and lateral
tuberal regions), dorsal periaqueductal grey matter, basal forebrain (nucleus
basalis of Meynert and horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca), and
amygdala (basal, accessory basal and lateral nuclei). The present results,
combined with recent data on the cortical projections to area 10, reveal the
frontal pole as a region that integrates information from multiple neural
processing systems, including high-level sensory, limbic and working
memory-related structures. Although the pattern of subcortical projections is
similar to that previously described in the macaque, suggesting a homologous
organization, the present data also suggest functional distinctions between
medial and lateral sectors of area 10.

© 2011 The Authors. European Journal of Neuroscience © 2011 Federation of
European Neuroscience Societies and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2011.07744.x 
PMID: 21714814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

