

1863. Exp Brain Res. 2011 Aug;213(1):63-71. doi: 10.1007/s00221-011-2778-9. Epub 2011
Jun 29.

Tool-use learning by common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Yamazaki Y(1), Echigo C, Saiki M, Inada M, Watanabe S, Iriki A.

Author information: 
(1)The Graduate School of Sociology, Keio University, 201 Mita Toho Building,
3-1-7 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-0073, Japan. yumyam@brain.riken.jp

One of the most critical and common features of tool use is that the tool
essentially functions as a part of the body. This feature is likely rooted in
biological features that are shared by tool users. To establish an ideal primate 
model to explore the neurobiological mechanisms supporting tool-use behaviours,
we trained common marmosets, a small New World monkey species that is not usually
associated with tool use, to use a rake-shaped tool to retrieve food. Five naive 
common marmosets were systematically trained to manipulate the tool using a
4-stage, step-by-step protocol. The relative positions of the tool and the food
were manipulated, so that the marmosets were required to (1) pull the tool
vertically, (2) move the tool horizontally, (3) make an arc to retrieve a food
item located behind the tool and (4) retrieve the food item. We found
considerable individual differences in tool-use technique; for example, one
animal consistently used a unilateral hand movement for all of the steps, whereas
the others (n = 4) used both hands to move the tool depending on the location of 
the food item. After extensive training, all of the marmosets could manipulate
the rake-shaped tool, which is reported in this species for the first time. The
common marmoset is thus a model primate for such studies. This study sets the
stage for future research to examine the biological mechanisms underlying the
cognitive ability of tool use at the molecular and genetic levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-011-2778-9 
PMCID: PMC3140946
PMID: 21713504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

