

1865. J Neuroendocrinol. 2011 Sep;23(9):778-90. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02181.x.

Triiodothyronine administration ameliorates the demyelination/remyelination ratio
in a non-human primate model of multiple sclerosis by correcting tissue
hypothyroidism.

D'Intino G(1), Lorenzini L, Fernandez M, Taglioni A, Perretta G, Del Vecchio G,
Villoslada P, Giardino L, Calzà L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Veterinary Medical Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna,
Italy.

Remyelination failure is a key landmark in chronic progression of multiple
sclerosis (MS), the most diffuse demyelinating disease in human, but the reasons 
for this are still unknown. It has been shown that thyroid hormone administration
in the rodent models of acute and chronic demyelinating diseases improved their
clinical course, pathology and remyelination. In the present study, we translated
this therapeutic attempt to experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the 
non-human primate Callithrix Jacchus (marmoset). We report that short protocols
of triiodothyronine treatment shifts the demyelination/remyelination balance
toward remyelination, as assessed by morphology, immunohistochemistry and
molecular biology, and improves the clinical course of the disease. We also found
that severely ill animals display hypothyroidism and severe alteration of
deiodinase and thyroid hormone receptor mRNAs expression in the spinal cord,
which was completely corrected by thyroid hormone treatment. We therefore suggest
that thyroid hormone treatment improves myelin sheath morphology in marmoset EAE,
by correcting the dysfunction of thyroid hormone cellular effectors.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Neuroendocrinology © 2011 Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02181.x 
PMID: 21707794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

