

1868. Andrologia. 2012 May;44 Suppl 1:349-53. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2011.01188.x.
Epub 2011 Jun 20.

Quantification of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 mRNA of marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
oocytes from periantral and antral follicles.

Konrad L(1), Kuhnert S, Nayudu PL, Einspanier R, Hinsch KD, Hinsch E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Justus Liebig University, Giessen,
Germany. lutz.konrad@gyn.med.uni-giessen.de

In mammals, the oocyte and preimplantation embryo are protected by the zona
pellucida (ZP) consisting mainly of ZP glycoproteins, which are responsible for
sperm binding, induction of the acrosome reaction and zona pellucida hardening to
prevent polyspermia. The ZP proteins become increasingly important as possible
predictors for in vitro cultured oocytes competence. As little is known about the
stage-dependent expression of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 in marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) oocytes, mRNA expression was investigated with real-time RT-PCR.
Total-RNA was isolated from three different classes of marmoset oocytes; Class 1 
oocytes from periantral follicles (<600 μm, n = 10), Class 2 oocytes from small
antral follicles (600-1000 μm, n = 10) and Class 3 oocytes from large antral
follicles (>1000 μm, n = 9). Compared with Class 1 oocytes mRNA expression of
ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 in Class 2 oocytes was significantly decreased. In Class 3
oocytes, the transcription of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 genes showed also a significant
decrease compared with Class 1 oocytes. In this study a differently regulated
expression of the ZP genes during late folliculogenesis with an obvious
downregulation of ZP1, ZP2 and ZP3 could be demonstrated for the first time in
the marmoset monkey.

© 2011 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2011.01188.x 
PMID: 21689136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

