

1877. Exp Neurol. 2011 Aug;230(2):291-301. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2011.05.008. Epub
2011 May 14.

Distinct structural plasticity in the hippocampus and amygdala of the middle-aged
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Marlatt MW(1), Philippens I, Manders E, Czéh B, Joels M, Krugers H, Lucassen PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Swammerdam Institute for Life Science - Center for Neuroscience, University of
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Adult neurogenesis in the primate brain is generally accepted to occur primarily 
in two specific areas; the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate
gyrus (DG) and the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricles.
Hippocampal neurogenesis is well known to be downregulated by stress and aging in
rodents, however there is less evidence documenting the sensitivity of
neuroblasts generated in the SVZ. In primates, migrating cells generated in the
SVZ travel via a unique temporal stream (TS) to the amygdala and entorhinal
cortex. Using adult common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), we examined
whether i) adult-generated cells in the marmoset amygdala differentiate into
doublecortin-positive (DCX+) neuroblasts, and ii) whether lasting changes occur
in DCX-expressing cells in the DG or amygdala when animals are exposed to 2 weeks
of psychosocial stress. A surprisingly large population of DCX+ immature neurons 
was found in the amygdala of these 4-year-old monkeys with an average density of 
163,000 DCX+ cells per mm(3). Co-labeling of these highly clustered cells with
PSA-NCAM supports that a subpopulation of these cells are migratory and
participate in chain-migration from the SVZ to the amygdala in middle-aged
marmosets. Exposure to 2 weeks of isolation and social defeat stress failed to
alter the numbers of BrdU+, or DCX+ cells in the hippocampus or amygdala when
evaluated 2 weeks after psychosocial stress, indicating that the current stress
paradigm has no long-term consequences on neurogenesis in this primate.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2011.05.008 
PMID: 21605555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

