

1878. Physiol Behav. 2011 Sep 1;104(3):446-53. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.05.005. Epub
2011 May 11.

Hormonal and behavioral responses to stress in lactating and non-lactating female
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Saltzman W(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, United
States. Saltzman@ucr.edu

In several mammalian species, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) and behavioral
responses to stressors are down-regulated in lactating females, possibly
preventing stress-induced disruptions of maternal care. Experimental elevations
of HPA axis hormones have been found to inhibit maternal behavior in lactating
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), raising the question of whether
lactating female marmosets also have blunted endogenous responses to stress.
Therefore, we compared HPA and behavioral responses to standardized stressors in 
reproductively experienced female common marmosets that were undergoing ovulatory
cycles and that either were (N=7) or were not lactating (N=8). Each marmoset
underwent (1) a restraint stressor during the early follicular phase of the
ovarian cycle (approximately 5 weeks postpartum for lactating females) and (2)
exposure to a simulated hawk predator during the early to mid-luteal phase
(approximately 7 weeks postpartum for lactating females). Lactating females were 
tested in the presence of one of their infants. Blood samples were collected
before, during, and immediately after each test for determination of plasma
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol concentrations. Both stressors
caused significant elevations in plasma ACTH and cortisol levels, and significant
decreases in cortisol:ACTH ratios; however, lactating and non-lactating females
showed no significant differences in their endocrine or behavioral responses to
either stressor, or in baseline ACTH or cortisol levels. These findings suggest
that in contrast to several other mammalian species, lactating female marmosets
maintain full behavioral and HPA responsiveness to stress, at least in the
presence of their infants.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2011.05.005 
PMCID: PMC3129480
PMID: 21600906  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

