

1881. J Neuroendocrinol. 2011 Nov;23(11):1139-48. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02153.x.

Inhibition of maternal behaviour by central infusion of corticotrophin-releasing 
hormone in marmoset monkeys.

Saltzman W(1), Boettcher CA, Post JL, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Stress can inhibit maternal behaviour and increase rates of child abuse in humans
and other animals; however, the neuroendocrine mechanisms are not known. To
determine whether corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) plays a role in
stress-induced disruption of maternal behaviour in primates, we characterised the
effects of acute i.c.v. infusions of CRH on maternal and abusive behaviour in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Nulliparous females were implanted 
with indwelling i.c.v. guide cannulae before conception. Between 18 and 58 days
after the birth of her first infants, each female underwent a series of i.c.v.
infusions of human CRH (0, 2, 8 and 25 μg) in 8 μl of artificial cerebrospinal
fluid. In the 70 min after infusion, marmosets were tested with one of their
infants, first in their home cage and, subsequently, in an unfamiliar cage in
which the infant was confined in a transparent box on the cage floor. In the home
cage, the highest dose of CRH significantly reduced the amount of time that
mothers spent carrying their infants, as compared to vehicle alone, although it
did not reliably affect aggression toward the infant or other behaviours. In the 
confined-infant test, the highest dose of CRH significantly reduced the amount of
time that mothers spent on the cage floor, increased mothers' vocalisation rates,
and tended to reduce their activity levels and time spent in proximity to their
infant. Twenty-five micrograms of CRH also elicited significant elevations in
plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone and cortisol concentrations compared to
vehicle. These results indicate that i.c.v.-administered CRH reduces maternal
behaviour in marmoset mothers, in both familiar and unfamiliar environments, but 
does not increase infant abuse.

© 2011 The Authors. Journal of Neuroendocrinology © 2011 Blackwell Publishing
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2011.02153.x 
PMCID: PMC3166357
PMID: 21554432  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

