

1885. Int J Antimicrob Agents. 2011 Jul;38(1):60-4. doi:
10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2011.03.003. Epub 2011 May 6.

Post-exposure therapy of inhalational anthrax in the common marmoset.

Nelson M(1), Stagg AJ, Stevens DJ, Brown MA, Pearce PC, Simpson AJ, Lever MS.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Porton 
Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4 0JQ, UK. mnelson@dstl.gov.uk

The aim of this study was to compare the pharmacokinetics and efficacy of
ciprofloxacin as post-exposure therapy against inhalational anthrax in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with other non-human primate models in order to
determine whether the marmoset is a suitable model to test post-exposure
therapies for anthrax. Pharmacokinetic (PK) and efficacy studies with
ciprofloxacin were performed in the marmoset. Ciprofloxacin plasma
pharmacokinetics were determined in six animals in separate single-dose and
multiple-dose studies and were analysed by high-performance liquid chromatography
(HPLC). A separate group of marmosets was exposed to ca. 100× the 50% lethal dose
(LD(50)) of Bacillus anthracis Ames strain by the airborne route. On Day 5 of a
twice-daily dosing regimen of 17.5 mg/kg, the ciprofloxacin half-life (t(1/2)),
maximum drug concentration (C(max)) and area under the concentration-time curve
(AUC) in marmoset plasma were 1.9 h, 2.1 μg/mL and 7.9 μg/mL/h, respectively.
Naïve untreated control animals succumbed to infection by Day 9. All animals
treated with ciprofloxacin, started on the day of exposure and continued for 10
days, remained healthy during the treatment period. Two antibiotic-treated
animals (33%) died after withdrawal of antibiotic therapy, attributed to the
germination of residual spores. In conclusion, in many respects the marmoset
appears to respond to B. anthracis in a similar way to the macaque, suggesting
that this small non-human primate is an acceptable, practical alternative model
for the evaluation of medical countermeasures against respiratory anthrax
infection.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2011.03.003 
PMID: 21530184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

