

1887. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 May 10;108(19):8015-20. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1102153108. Epub 2011 Apr 25.

Changes in cortical interneuron migration contribute to the evolution of the
neocortex.

Tanaka DH(1), Oiwa R, Sasaki E, Nakajima K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo 160-8582,
Japan.

The establishment of the mammalian neocortex is often explained phylogenetically 
by an evolutionary change in the pallial neuronal progenitors of excitatory
projection neurons. It remains unclear, however, whether and how the evolutionary
change in inhibitory interneurons, which originate outside the neocortex, has
been involved in the establishment of the neocortex. In this study, we
transplanted chicken, turtle, mouse, and marmoset medial ganglionic eminence
(MGE) cells into the embryonic mouse MGE in utero and compared their migratory
behaviors. We found that the MGE cells from all of the species were able to
migrate through the mouse neocortical subventricular zone and that both the mouse
and marmoset cells subsequently invaded the neocortical cortical plate (CP).
However, regardless of their birthdates and interneuron subtypes, most of the
chicken and turtle cells ignored the neocortical CP and passed beneath it,
although they were able to invade the archicortex and paleocortex, suggesting
that the proper responsiveness of MGE cells to guidance cues to enter the
neocortical CP is unique to mammals. When chicken MGE cells were transplanted
directly into the neocortical CP, they were able to survive and mature,
suggesting that the neocortical CP itself is essentially permissive for
postmigratory development of chicken MGE cells. These results suggest that an
evolutionary change in the migratory ability of inhibitory interneurons, which
originate outside the neocortex, was involved in the establishment of the
neocortex by supplying inhibitory components to the network.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1102153108 
PMCID: PMC3093493
PMID: 21518872  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

