

1888. Behav Processes. 2011 Jul;87(3):241-5. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.04.002. Epub
2011 Apr 20.

Immediate, but no delayed, behavioral response to a snake model by captive black 
tufted-ear marmosets.

Cagni P(1), Sampaio AC, Ribeiro NB, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Whether callitrichids are naturally capable of detecting and responding to
predators - or if such skills are learned - remains a controversial issue, with
results differing in terms of species, predator and encounter conditions.
Therefore, the behavioral response of naïve adult captive black tufted-ear
marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) was assessed before, during, 0 and 4 h after a
5-min encounter with a snake and flower model. Using a two-phase cross-over
design, marmosets (n = 16) were submitted to one trial for each stimulus, divided
into four 5-min intervals: pre-exposure, exposure and post-exposure observations 
held 0 and 4h later. The snake exposure increased the number of gazes made
towards the stimulus and the time cage-mates spent close to each other, as well
as induced tsik-tsik alarm/mobbing calls, while inhibiting foraging and
decreasing the time spent near the snake's location. After the snake was removed,
all changes were immediately reversed. Mobbing was not observed. The flower
stimulus only increased direct gazes and time spent in proximity during its
presentation. All marmosets were captive-born and snake-naïve yet had recently
been confronted with a cat stimulus in a previous experiment. Thus, previous
experiences with snakes may be required for marmosets to fully develop
appropriate immediate and long-term responses.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2011.04.002 
PMID: 21513778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

