

1889. J Cell Physiol. 2011 Jul;226(7):1741-9. doi: 10.1002/jcp.22503.

Characterization of BCAR4, a novel oncogene causing endocrine resistance in human
breast cancer cells.

Godinho M(1), Meijer D, Setyono-Han B, Dorssers LC, van Agthoven T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Josephine Nefkens Institute, Erasmus MC, University
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Resistance to the antiestrogen tamoxifen remains a major problem in the
management of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. Knowledge on the
resistance mechanisms is needed to develop more effective therapies. Breast
cancer antiestrogen resistance 4 (BCAR4) was identified in a functional screen
for genes involved in tamoxifen resistance. BCAR4 is expressed in 27% of primary 
breast tumors. In patients treated with tamoxifen for metastized disease high
BCAR4 mRNA levels are associated with reduced clinical benefit and
progression-free survival. Regarding tumor aggressiveness high BCAR4 mRNA levels 
are associated with a shorter metastasis free survival and overall survival. In
the present study, we investigated the role of BCAR4 in endocrine resistance.
Forced expression of BCAR4 in human ZR-75-1 and MCF7 breast cancer cells resulted
in cell proliferation in the absence of estrogen and in the presence of various
antiestrogens. Inhibition of estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) expression with small
interfering RNA (siRNA), implied that the BCAR4-induced mechanism of resistance
is independent of ESR1. Highly conserved BCAR4 homologues of rhesus monkey, green
monkey, and the less conserved common marmoset gene induced tamoxifen-resistant
cell proliferation, in contrast to the distant BCAR4 homologues of bovine and
rabbit. Injection of BCAR4-expressing ZR-75-1 cells into nude mice resulted in
rapidly growing tumors. In silico analysis showed that BCAR4 mRNA is highly
expressed in human placenta and oocyte, and absent in other normal tissues. In
conclusion, BCAR4 is a strong transforming gene causing estrogen-independent
growth and antiestrogen resistance, and induces tumor formation in vivo. Due to
its restricted expression, BCAR4 may be a good target for treating
antiestrogen-resistant breast cancer.

Copyright Â© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.22503 
PMID: 21506106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

