

189. Sci Rep. 2021 Jan 27;11(1):2309. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-80000-1.

Cytotoxic Escherichia coli strains encoding colibactin, cytotoxic necrotizing
factor, and cytolethal distending toxin colonize laboratory common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

McCoy CS(1), Mannion AJ(1), Feng Y(1), Madden CM(1), Artim SC(1)(2), Au GG(1),
Dolan M(1), Haupt JL(1), Burns MA(1), Sheh A(1), Fox JG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Building 16-825, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA.
(2)Merck Research Laboratories, Merck, South San Francisco, CA, 94080, USA.
(3)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Building 16-825, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA, 02139, USA.
jgfox@mit.edu.

Cyclomodulins are virulence factors that modulate cellular differentiation,
apoptosis, and proliferation. These include colibactin (pks), cytotoxic
necrotizing factor (cnf), and cytolethal distending toxin (cdt). Pathogenic pks+,
cnf+, and cdt+ E. coli strains are associated with inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD) and colorectal cancer in humans and animals. Captive marmosets are
frequently afflicted with IBD-like disease, and its association with
cyclomodulins is unknown. Cyclomodulin-encoding E. coli rectal isolates were
characterized using PCR-based assays in healthy and clinically affected marmosets
originating from three different captive sources. 139 E. coli isolates were
cultured from 122 of 143 marmosets. The pks gene was detected in 56 isolates
(40%), cnf in 47 isolates (34%), and cdt in 1 isolate (0.7%). The prevalences of 
pks+ and cnf+ E. coli isolates were significantly different between the three
marmoset colonies. 98% of cyclomodulin-positive E. coli belonged to phylogenetic 
group B2. Representative isolates demonstrated cyclomodulin cytotoxicity, and
serotyping and whole genome sequencing were consistent with pathogenic E. coli
strains. However, the presence of pks+, cnf+, or cdt+ E. coli did not correlate
with clinical gastrointestinal disease in marmosets. Cyclomodulin-encoding E.
coli colonize laboratory common marmosets in a manner dependent on the source,
potentially impacting reproducibility in marmoset models.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-80000-1 
PMCID: PMC7841143
PMID: 33504843  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

