

1890. Immunogenetics. 2011 Aug;63(8):485-99. doi: 10.1007/s00251-011-0526-8. Epub 2011 
Apr 20.

Comparative genome analysis of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I
B/C segments in primates elucidated by genomic sequencing in common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Shiina T(1), Kono A, Westphal N, Suzuki S, Hosomichi K, Kita YF, Roos C, Inoko H,
Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Division of Basic Medical Science and
Molecular Medicine, Tokai University School of Medicine, Shimokasuya, Isehara,
Kanagawa, Japan, tshiina@is.icc.u-tokai.ac.jp

Common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) have emerged as important animal
models for biomedical research, necessitating a more extensive characterization
of their major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region. However, the genomic
information of the marmoset MHC (Caja) is still lacking. The MHC-B/C segment
represents the most diverse MHC region among primates. Therefore, in this paper, 
to elucidate the detailed gene organization and evolutionary processes of the
Caja class I B (Caja-B) segment, we determined two parts of the Caja-B sequences 
with 1,079Â kb in total, ranging from H6orf15 to BAT1 and compared the structure
and phylogeny with that of other primates. This segment contains 54 genes in
total, nine Caja-B genes (Caja-B1 to Caja-B9), two MIC genes (MIC1 and MIC2),
eight non-MHC genes, two non-coding genes, and 33 non-MHC pseudogenes that have
not been observed in other primate MHC-B/C segments. Caja-B3, Caja-B4, and
Caja-B7 encode proper MHC class I proteins according to amino acid structural
characteristics. Phylogenetic relationships based on 48 MHC-I nucleotide
sequences in primates suggested (1) species-specific divergence for Caja, Mamu,
and HLA/Patr/Gogo lineages, (2) independent generation of the "seven coding exon"
type MHC-B genes in Mamu and HLA/Patr/Gogo lineages from an ancestral "eight
coding exon" type MHC-I gene, (3) parallel correlation with the long and short
segmental duplication unit length in Caja and Mamu lineages. These findings
indicate that the MHC-B/C segment has been under permanent selective pressure in 
the evolution of primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-011-0526-8 
PMID: 21505866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

