

1894. Andrologia. 2011 Jun;43(3):167-73. doi: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2009.01038.x. Epub
2011 Feb 25.

Protamine-1 represents a sperm specific gene transcript: a study in Callithrix
jacchus and Bos taurus.

Hecht N(1), Cavalcanti MC, Nayudu P, Behr R, Reichenbach M, Weidner W, Steger K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Pediatric Urology and Andrology, Justus Liebig
University, Giessen, Germany. klaus.steger@chiru.med.uni-giessen.de 

Spermatozoa are transcriptionally inactive cells, but contain acetylated
histones, normally a characteristic of transcriptionally active cells.
Acetylgroups are thought to represent epigenetic marks that are transmitted to
the oocyte and are involved in starting gene expression in the zygote and in
regulating gene expression during early embryogenesis. We performed reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) and in bovine spermatozoa, oocytes, zygotes, two- and
four-cell embryos to evaluate the presence of specific transcripts known to play 
a role during fertilisation and early embryo development, namely protamine-1
(PRM1), protamine-2 (PRM2), histone H1 (H1), histone H3 (H3), histone H4 (H4),
cAMP-responsive element modulator (CREM), DNA methyltransferase-1 (DNMT1), TATA
box-binding protein (TBP). All transcripts tested were present in spermatozoa of 
the common marmoset, while bull spermatozoa lack PRM2. Marmoset oocytes exhibited
transcripts for H1, H3, H4 and TBP, whereas bovine oocytes revealed H1, H3, H4,
CREM, DNMT and TBP mRNAs. In zygotes, we amplified H1, H4, TBP (marmoset) and
PRM1, H1, H3, H4, CREM, DNMT1 and TBP (bovine). Two-cell embryos showed PCR
products for H1, H3 and TBP in the marmoset. In the bovine, all transcripts could
be observed except PRM2. In four-cell embryos, PCR signals were obtained for
PRM1, H1, H3, H4 and TBP in the marmoset. In the bovine, all transcripts were
detected except PRM2. Our data suggest that, in both C. jacchus and Bos taurus,
PRM1 transcripts are delivered by the spermatozoon to the oocyte.

© 2011 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1439-0272.2009.01038.x 
PMID: 21486395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

