

1895. J Sex Med. 2011 Jun;8(6):1616-25. doi: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2011.02246.x. Epub
2011 Apr 7.

Role of a novel tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channel in the nitrergic relaxation
of corpus cavernosum from the South American rattlesnake Crotalus durissus
terrificus.

Capel RO(1), Mónica FZ, Porto M, Barillas S, Muscará MN, Teixeira SA, Arruda AM, 
Pissinatti L, Pissinatti A, Schenka AA, Antunes E, Nahoum C, Cogo JC, de Oliveira
MA, De Nucci G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of
Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, SP, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Coitus in snakes may last up to 28 hours; however, the mechanisms
involved are unknown.
AIM: To evaluate the relevance of the nitric oxide (NO)-cyclic guanosine
monophosphate (cGMP)-phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) system in snake corpus
cavernosum reactivity.
METHODS: Hemipenes were removed from anesthetized South American rattlesnakes
(Crotalus durissus terrificus) and studied by light and scanning electronic
microscopy. Isolated Crotalus corpora cavernosa (CCC) were dissected from the
non-spiny region of the hemipenises, and tissue reactivity was assessed in organ 
baths.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cumulative concentration-response curves were constructed 
for acetylcholine (ACh), sodium nitroprusside (SNP),
5-cyclopropyl-2-[1-(2-fluorobenzyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridine-3-yl]pyrimidin-4-y
lamine (BAY 41-2272), and tadalafil in CCC precontracted with phenylephrine.
Relaxation induced by electrical field stimulation (EFS) was also done in the
absence and presence of N(ω) nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 100 µM),
1H-[1, 2, 4] oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ; 10 µM) and tetrodotoxin
(TTX; 1 µM).
RESULTS: The hemipenes consisted of two functionally concentric corpora
cavernosa, one of them containing radiating bundles of smooth muscle fibers
(confirmed by α-actin immunostaining). Endothelial and neural nitric oxide
synthases were present in the endothelium and neural structures, respectively;
whereas soluble guanylate cyclase and PDE5 were expressed in trabecular smooth
muscle. ACh and SNP relaxed isolated CCC, with the relaxations being markedly
reduced by L-NAME and ODQ, respectively. BAY 41-2272 and tadalafil caused
sustained relaxations with potency (pEC(50) ) values of 5.84 ± 0.17 and 5.10 ±
0.08 (N=3-4), respectively. In precontracted CCC, EFS caused frequency-dependent 
relaxations that lasted three times longer than those in mammalian CC. Although
these relaxations were almost abolished by either L-NAME or ODQ, they were
unaffected by TTX. In contrast, EFS-induced relaxations in marmoset CC were
abolished by TTX.
CONCLUSIONS: Rattlesnake CC relaxation is mediated by the NO-cGMP-PDE5 pathway in
a manner similar to mammals. The novel TTX-resistant Na channel identified here
may be responsible for the slow response of smooth muscle following nerve
stimulation and could explain the extraordinary duration of snake coitus.

© 2011 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2011.02246.x 
PMID: 21477017  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

