

1896. Am J Primatol. 2011 Sep;73(9):852-60. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20952. Epub 2011 Mar 31.

Predation risk and the interspecific association of two Brazilian Atlantic forest
primates in Cabruca agroforest.

Oliveira LC(1), Dietz JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland, USA.
leonardoco@gmail.com

Forming interspecific associations is one of many strategies adopted by primates 
in order to avoid predation. In addition to improved predator detection and
avoidance, benefits of interspecific associations relate to improved foraging
efficiency. In this study we tested these two hypotheses explaining associations 
between the endangered golden-headed lion tamarin, Leontopithecus chrysomelas and
the sympatric Wied's marmoset, Callithrix kuhlii. We estimated predation risk by 
recording the number of encounters between lion tamarins and potential predators 
in cabruca agroforest (shaded cacao plantation) and in mosaic forest (a mix of
cabruca, primary and secondary forest). To evaluate if the association between
the two species was related to foraging benefits we recorded the number of
associations between the two species when the lion tamarins were eating and when 
they were not eating. To test if the association occurred to improve predator
detection and avoidance, we evaluated if associations between the species were
more frequent in areas with higher predation risk and during the part of the day 
when predation risk is higher. We also compared the number of associations 3
months before birth events and 3 months after, when the lion tamarins are more
susceptible to predation. Predation risk, mainly by raptors, was significantly
higher in cabruca than in mosaic forest (0.17 and 0.05 encounters with predators 
per hour of observation, respectively). Associations were significantly more
frequent after birth events and during the part of the day when predation risk
was also higher (5-6 am until noon). We did not observe any direct evidence of
foraging-related advantages of interspecific associations for the lion tamarins. 
The tamarins did not associate more when they were foraging. Our findings suggest
that lion tamarins are more exposed to predation in cabruca than in mosaic forest
and associations between lion tamarins and Wied's marmosets are related to
predation avoidance.

Â© 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20952 
PMID: 21455950  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

