

1897. J Comp Neurol. 2011 Jun 15;519(9):1816-27. doi: 10.1002/cne.22605.

Distribution, level, pharmacology, regulation, and signaling of 5-HT6 receptors
in rats and marmosets with special reference to an experimental model of
parkinsonism.

Zhang X(1), Andren PE, Glennon RA, Svenningsson P.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuropharmacology, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Center
for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska Institute, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden.

Serotonin 5-HT(6) receptors have been implicated in the regulation of cognition, 
locomotion, and mood, but the elucidation of their functions is complicated by
conflicting data using various animal models. Here, a systematic evaluation
showed that autoradiographic binding with the selective 5-HT(6) receptor
antagonist [(125) I]SB-258585 was similar in marmosets and rats. In both species,
[(125) I]SB-258585 binding was enriched in the caudate-putamen. Various recently 
developed agonists and antagonists toward 5-HT(6) receptors exhibited
similarities in their abilities to displace [(125) I]SB-258585 binding in
marmosets and rats. The rank order of pEC50 values were as follows: (+)EMDT-CR = 
EMD386088>MS-245 = 5-HT>EMDT>>(-)EMDT-CR; and (+)EMDT-CR = EMD386088>5-HT =
MS-245 = EMDT>>(-)EMDT-CR, in marmosets and rats, respectively. Unilateral
6-hydroxydopamine lesioning of dopaminergic axons caused a significant decrease
of [(125) I]SB-258585 binding in the caudate-putamen of both marmosets and rats. 
Nonetheless, acute administration of the 5-HT(6) receptor agonist EMDT to
unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, caused an induction of egr-1,
homer, and enkephalin mRNAs in the dopamine-depleted hemisphere, indicating a
supersensitization of 5-HT(6) receptors following dopamine depletion. In
conclusion, this study provides evidence for significant similarities in the
distribution, level, pharmacology, and regulation of 5-HT(6) receptors between
rats and marmosets.

Copyright Â© 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22605 
PMID: 21452237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

