

1900. J Appl Toxicol. 2012 Sep;32(9):673-86. doi: 10.1002/jat.1671. Epub 2011 Mar 24.

Calibration and validation of a physiologically based model for soman
intoxication in the rat, marmoset, guinea pig and pig.

Chen K(1), Seng KY.

Author information: 
(1)Bioengineering Laboratory, Defence Medical and Environmental Research
Institute, DSO National Laboratories, 27 Medical Drive, Singapore, 117510,
Republic of Singapore.

A physiologically based pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PBPK/PD) model has
been developed for low, medium and high levels of soman intoxication in the rat, 
marmoset, guinea pig and pig. The primary objective of this model was to describe
the pharmacokinetics of soman after intravenous, intramuscular and subcutaneous
administration in the rat, marmoset, guinea pig, and pig as well as its
subsequent pharmacodynamic effects on blood acetylcholinesterase (AChE) levels,
relating dosimetry to physiological response. The reactions modelled in each
physiologically realistic compartment are: (1) partitioning of C(±)P(±) soman
from the blood into the tissue; (2) inhibition of AChE and carboxylesterase (CaE)
by soman; (3) elimination of soman by enzymatic hydrolysis; (4) de novo synthesis
and degradation of AChE and CaE; and (5) aging of AChE-soman and CaE-soman
complexes. The model was first calibrated for the rat, then extrapolated for
validation in the marmoset, guinea pig and pig. Adequate fits to experimental
data on the time course of soman pharmacokinetics and AChE inhibition were
achieved in the mammalian models. In conclusion, the present model adequately
predicts the dose-response relationship resulting from soman intoxication and can
potentially be applied to predict soman pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in 
other species, including human.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.1671 
PMID: 21433037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

