

1901. J Neurosci. 2011 Feb 23;31(8):2965-73. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4920-10.2011.

Altered neural responses to sounds in primate primary auditory cortex during
slow-wave sleep.

Issa EB(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.

How sounds are processed by the brain during sleep is an important question for
understanding how we perceive the sensory environment in this unique behavioral
state. While human behavioral data have indicated selective impairments of sound 
processing during sleep, brain imaging and neurophysiology studies have reported 
that overall neural activity in auditory cortex during sleep is surprisingly
similar to that during wakefulness. This responsiveness to external stimuli
leaves open the question of how neural responses during sleep differ, if at all, 
from wakefulness. Using extracellular neural recordings in the primary auditory
cortex of naturally sleeping common marmosets, we show that slow-wave sleep (SWS)
alters neural responses in the primate auditory cortex in two specific ways. SWS 
reduced the sensitivity of auditory cortex such that quiet sounds elicited weak
responses in SWS compared with wakefulness, while loud sounds evoked similar
responses in SWS and wakefulness. Furthermore, SWS reduced the extent of
sound-evoked response suppression. This pattern of alterations was not observed
during rapid eye movement sleep and could not be easily explained by the presence
of slow rhythms in SWS. The alteration of excitatory and inhibitory responses
during SWS suggests limitations in auditory processing and provides novel
insights for understanding why certain sounds are processed while others are
missed during deep sleep.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4920-10.2011 
PMCID: PMC3758555
PMID: 21414918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

