

1904. ILAR J. 2011;52(1):54-65.

The marmoset as a model of aging and age-related diseases.

Tardif SD(1), Mansfield KG, Ratnam R, Ross CN, Ziegler TE.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, 15355 Lambda Drive, STCBM Bldg 2.200.08, San
Antonio, TX 78245, USA. tardif@uthscsa.edu

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is poised to become a standard nonhuman 
primate aging model. With an average lifespan of 5 to 7 years and a maximum
lifespan of 16½ years, marmosets are the shortest-lived anthropoid primates. They
display age-related changes in pathologies that mirror those seen in humans, such
as cancer, amyloidosis, diabetes, and chronic renal disease. They also display
predictable age-related differences in lean mass, calf circumference, circulating
albumin, hemoglobin, and hematocrit. Features of spontaneous sensory and
neurodegenerative change--for example, reduced neurogenesis, ß-amyloid deposition
in the cerebral cortex, loss of calbindin D(28k) binding, and evidence of
presbycusis--appear between the ages of 7 and 10 years. Variation among colonies 
in the age at which neurodegenerative change occurs suggests the interesting
possibility that marmosets could be specifically managed to produce earlier
versus later occurrence of degenerative conditions associated with differing
rates of damage accumulation. In addition to the established value of the
marmoset as a model of age-related neurodegenerative change, this primate can
serve as a model of the integrated effects of aging and obesity on metabolic
dysfunction, as it displays evidence of such dysfunction associated with high
body weight as early as 6 to 8 years of age.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.52.1.54 
PMCID: PMC3775658
PMID: 21411858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

