

1909. PLoS Comput Biol. 2011 Feb;7(2):e1001078. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1001078. Epub
2011 Feb 24.

Power-law input-output transfer functions explain the contrast-response and
tuning properties of neurons in visual cortex.

Persi E(1), Hansel D, Nowak L, Barone P, van Vreeswijk C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurophysique et Physiologie, Universit√© Paris Descartes,
Paris, France.

We develop a unified model accounting simultaneously for the contrast invariance 
of the width of the orientation tuning curves (OT) and for the sigmoidal shape of
the contrast response function (CRF) of neurons in the primary visual cortex
(V1). We determine analytically the conditions for the structure of the afferent 
LGN and recurrent V1 inputs that lead to these properties for a hypercolumn
composed of rate based neurons with a power-law transfer function. We investigate
what are the relative contributions of single neuron and network properties in
shaping the OT and the CRF. We test these results with numerical simulations of a
network of conductance-based model (CBM) neurons and we demonstrate that they are
valid and more robust here than in the rate model. The results indicate that
because of the acceleration in the transfer function, described here by a
power-law, the orientation tuning curves of V1 neurons are more tuned, and their 
CRF is steeper than those of their inputs. Last, we show that it is possible to
account for the diversity in the measured CRFs by introducing heterogeneities
either in single neuron properties or in the input to the neurons. We show how
correlations among the parameters that characterize the CRF depend on these
sources of heterogeneities. Comparison with experimental data suggests that both 
sources contribute nearly equally to the diversity of CRF shapes observed in V1
neurons.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1001078 
PMCID: PMC3044767
PMID: 21390280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

