

1910. Neuroimage. 2011 Jun 1;56(3):1154-63. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.02.075. Epub
2011 Mar 3.

Rapid high-resolution three-dimensional mapping of T1 and age-dependent
variations in the non-human primate brain using magnetization-prepared rapid
gradient-echo (MPRAGE) sequence.

Liu JV(1), Bock NA, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1065, USA. liu@junjie.com

The use of quantitative T(1) mapping in neuroscience and neurology has raised
strong interest in the development of T(1)-mapping techniques that can measure
T(1) in the whole brain, with high accuracy and precision and within short
imaging and computation times. Here, we present a new inversion-recovery (IR)
based T(1)-mapping method using a standard 3D magnetization-prepared rapid
gradient-echo (MPRAGE) sequence. By varying only the inversion time (TI), but
keeping other parameters constant, MPRAGE image signals become linear to
exp(-TI/T(1)), allowing for accurate T(1) estimation without flip angle
correction. We also show that acquiring data at just 3 TIs, with the three
different TI values optimized, gives maximum T(1) precision per unit time,
allowing for new efficient approaches to measure and compute T(1). We demonstrate
the use of our method at 7 T to obtain 3D T(1) maps of the whole brain in common 
marmosets at 0.60mm resolution and within 11 min. T(1) maps from the same
individuals were highly reproducible across different days. Across subjects, the 
peak of cerebral gray matter T(1) distribution was 1735±52 ms, and the lower edge
of cerebral white matter T(1) distribution was 1270±43 ms. We found a significant
decrease of T(1) in both gray and white matter of the marmoset brain with age
over a span of 14 years, in agreement with previous human studies. This
application illustrates that MPRAGE-based 3D T(1) mapping is rapid, accurate and 
precise, and can facilitate high-resolution anatomical studies in neuroscience
and neurological diseases.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2011.02.075 
PMCID: PMC3085577
PMID: 21376814  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

