

1915. Hear Res. 2011 Jul;277(1-2):127-33. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2011.02.001. Epub 2011 
Feb 12.

Measurement of absolute auditory thresholds in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Osmanski MS(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
michael.osmanski@jhu.edu

The common marmoset is a small, arboreal, New World primate that has emerged as a
promising non-human model system in auditory neuroscience. A complete
understanding of the neuroethology of auditory processing in marmosets will
include behavioral work examining how sounds are perceived by these animals.
However, there have been few studies of the marmoset's hearing and perceptual
abilities and the audiogram of this species has not been measured using modern
psychophysical methods. The present experiment pairs psychophysics with an
operant conditioning technique to examine perception of pure tone stimuli by
marmosets using an active behavioral paradigm. Subjects were trained to lick at a
feeding tube when they detected a sound. Correct responses provided access to a
food reward. Pure tones of varying intensities were presented to subjects using
the method of constant stimuli. Behavioral thresholds were calculated for each
animal based on hit rate--threshold was defined by the tone intensity that the
animal correctly identified 50% of the time. Results show that marmoset hearing
is comparable to that of other New World monkeys, with a hearing range extending 
from about 125 Hz up to 36 kHz and a sensitivity peak around 7 kHz.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2011.02.001 
PMCID: PMC3123402
PMID: 21303689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

