

1924. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2011 Aug 1;35(6):1493-8. doi:
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.008. Epub 2011 Jan 14.

Effects of constant daylight exposure during early development on marmoset
psychosocial behavior.

Senoo A(1), Okuya T, Sugiura Y, Mimura K, Honda Y, Tanaka I, Kodama T, Tokuno H, 
Yui K, Nakamura S, Usui S, Koshiba M.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Tokyo, 184-8588, Japan.

Due to global industrialization, the light cycle is shifting to longer daytime.
Mounting evidence indicates that social developmental disorders may correlate
with longer periods of daytime in childhood. However, the exact mechanisms of
this link remain unclear. To examine the impact of longer day-time on
psychosocial development, we developed a novel non-human primate model, using the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) reared under constant daylight from birth.
Marmosets were reared individually by human nursing under constant light (LL)
during varying periods in juvenile development, and their behaviors were compared
with those of normal day-night cycle (LD) marmosets by multivariate analysis
based on principal component analysis (PCA). LL marmosets elicited egg-like calls
(e-call) less in juvenile period, and displayed side-to-side shakes of the upper 
body with rapid head rotation through adulthood frequently. Based on the PCA,
these behaviors were interpreted as 'alert' or 'hyperactive' states.
Additionally, behavioral development of marmosets reared under constant dark (DD)
was markedly different from both LD and LL marmosets, suggesting the fundamental 
importance of daylight-dependent neuronal and endocrine processes and entrainment
by a constant 24-hour light/dark cycle on psychosocial behavior development.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2011.01.008 
PMID: 21238530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

