

1926. J Proteome Res. 2011 Apr 1;10(4):1548-57. doi: 10.1021/pr1009367. Epub 2011 Feb
22.

Evolutionary glycomics: characterization of milk oligosaccharides in primates.

Tao N(1), Wu S, Kim J, An HJ, Hinde K, Power ML, Gagneux P, German JB, Lebrilla
CB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California, Davis, California 95616,
United States.

Free oligosaccharides are abundant components of mammalian milk and have primary 
roles as prebiotic compounds, in immune defense, and in brain development. A mass
spectrometry-based technique is applied to profile milk oligosaccharides from
apes (chimpanzee, gorilla, and siamang), new world monkeys (golden lion tamarin
and common marmoset), and an old world monkey (rhesus). The purpose of this study
is to evaluate the patterns of primate milk oligosaccharide composition from a
phylogenetic perspective to assess the extent to which the compositions of HMOs
derives from ancestral primate patterns as opposed to more recent evolutionary
events. Milk oligosaccharides were quantitated by nanoflow liquid chromatography 
on chip-based devices. The relative abundances of fucosylated and sialylated milk
oligosaccharides in primates were also determined. For a systematic and
comprehensive study of evolutionary patterns of milk oligosaccharides, cluster
analysis of primate milk was performed using the chromatographic profile. In
general, the oligosaccharides in primate milk, including humans, are more complex
and exhibit greater diversity compared to the ones in nonprimate milk. A detailed
comparison of the oligosaccharides across evolution revealed nonsequential
developmental pattern, that is, that primate milk oligosaccharides do not
necessarily cluster according to the primate phylogeny. This report represents
the first comprehensive and quantitative effort to profile and elucidate the
structures of free milk oligosaccharides so that they can be related to glycan
function in different primates.

DOI: 10.1021/pr1009367 
PMCID: PMC3070053
PMID: 21214271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

