

1929. ILAR J. 2011;52(3):386-92. doi: 10.1093/ilar.52.3.386.

Workshop summary: neotropical primates in biomedical research.

Tardif SD, Abee CR, Mansfield KG.

This report summarizes presentations and discussions at an NIH-sponsored workshop
on Neotropical Primates in Biomedical Research, held in September 2010.
Neotropical primates (New World monkeys), with their smaller size, faster
maturation, and shorter lifespans than Old World monkeys, are efficient models
and present unique opportunities for studying human health and disease. After
overviews of the most commonly used neotropical species-squirrel monkeys,
marmosets, and owl monkeys-speakers described the use of neotropical primates in 
specific areas of immunology, infectious disease, neuroscience, and physiology
research. Presentations addressed the development of new research tools:
immune-based reagents, fMRI technologies suited to these small primates,
sequencing of the marmoset genome, the first germline transgenic monkey, and
neotropical primate induced pluripotent stem cells. In the discussions after the 
presentations, participants identified challenges to both continued use and
development of new uses of neotropical primates in research and suggested the
following actions to address the challenges: (1) mechanisms to support breeding
colonies of some neotropical species to ensure a well-characterized domestic
source; (2) resources for the continuing development of critical research tools
to improve the immunological and hormonal characterization of neotropical
primates; (3) improved opportunities for networking among investigators who use
neotropical primates, training and other measures to improve colony and
veterinary management, and continuedÂ research on neotropical primate management
and veterinary care issues; (4) support for development activities to produce
models that are more affordable and more efficient for moving research "from
benchside to bedside"; and (5) establishment of a small program that would fund
"orphan" species.

DOI: 10.1093/ilar.52.3.386 
PMID: 23382152  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

