

1931. Chem Biol Interact. 2011 Feb 1;189(3):146-52. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.12.014.
Epub 2010 Dec 22.

Regio- and stereoselective oxidation of propranolol enantiomers by human CYP2D6, 
cynomolgus monkey CYP2D17 and marmoset CYP2D19.

Narimatsu S(1), Nakata T, Shimizudani T, Nagaoka K, Nakura H, Masuda K, Katsu T, 
Koeda A, Naito S, Yamano S, Miyata A, Hanioka N.

Author information: 
(1)Okayama University, Kita-ku, Japan. shizuo@pharm.okayama-u.ac.jp

Toxic and pharmacokinetic profiles of drug candidates are evaluated in vivo often
using monkeys as experimental animals, and the data obtained are extrapolated to 
humans. Well understanding physiological properties, including drug-metabolizing 
enzymes, of monkeys should increase the accuracy of the extrapolation. The
present study was performed to compare regio- and stereoselectivity in the
oxidation of propranolol (PL), a chiral substrate, by cytochrome P450 2D (CYP2D) 
enzymes among humans, cynomolgus monkeys and marmosets. Complimentary DNAs
encoding human CYP2D6, cynomolgus monkey CYP2D17 and marmoset CYP2D19 were
cloned, and their proteins expressed in a yeast cell expression system. The
regio- and stereoselective oxidation of PL enantiomers by yeast cell microsomal
fractions were compared. In terms of efficiency of expression in the system, the 
holo-proteins ranked CYP2D6=CYP2D17>>CYP2D19. This may be caused by the bulky
side chain of the amino acid residue at position 119 (leucine for CYP2D19 vs.
valine for CYP2D6 and CYP2D17), which can disturb the incorporation of the heme
moiety into the active-site cavity. PL enantiomers were oxidized by all of the
enzymes mainly into 4-hydroxyproranolol (4-OH-PL), followed by 5-OH-PL and
N-desisopropylpropranolol (NDP). In the kinetic analysis, apparent K(m) values
were commonly in the μM range and substrate enantioselectivity of R-PL<S-PL was
observed in both K(m) and V(max) values for the formation of the three
metabolites from PL enantiomers. The activity to produce NDP tended to be higher 
for the monkey enzymes, particularly CYP2D17, than for the human enzyme. These
results indicate that in the oxidation of PL enantiomers by CYP2D enzymes,
stereoselectivity is similar but regioselectivity is different between humans and
monkeys.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2010.12.014 
PMID: 21184751  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

