

1933. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2011 Jun;19(6):1145-56. doi: 10.1038/oby.2010.303. Epub 
2010 Dec 16.

Differential contribution of dietary fat and monosaccharide to metabolic syndrome
in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wachtman LM(1), Kramer JA, Miller AD, Hachey AM, Curran EH, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Primate Research Center, Southborough,
Massachusetts, USA. Lynn_wachtman@hms.harvard.edu

There is a critical need for animal models to study aspects type 2 diabetes (T2D)
pathogenesis and prevention. While the rhesus macaque is such an established
model, the common marmoset has added benefits including reduced zoonotic risks,
shorter life span, and a predisposition to birth twins demonstrating chimerism.
The marmoset as a model organism for the study of metabolic syndrome has not been
fully evaluated. Marmosets fed high-fat or glucose-enriched diets were followed
longitudinally to observe effects on morphometric and metabolic measures. Effects
on pancreatic histomorphometry and vascular pathology were examined terminally.
The glucose-enriched diet group developed an obese phenotype and a prolonged
hyperglycemic state evidenced by a rapid and persistent increase in mean
glycosylated hemoglobin (HgbA1c) observed as early as week 16. In contrast,
marmosets fed a high-fat diet did not maintain an obese phenotype and
demonstrated a delayed increase in HgbA1) that did not reach statistical
significance until week 40. Consumption of either diet resulted in profound
pancreatic islet hyperplasia suggesting a compensation for increased insulin
requirements. Although the high-fat diet group developed atherosclerosis of
increased severity, the presence of lesions correlated with glucose intolerance
only in the glucose-enriched diet group. The altered timing of glucose
dysregulation, differential contribution to obesity, and variation in vascular
pathology suggests mechanisms of effect specific to dietary nutrient content.
Feeding nutritionally modified diets to common marmosets recapitulates aspects of
metabolic disease and represents a model that may prove instrumental to
elucidating the contribution of nutrient excess to disease development.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2010.303 
PMCID: PMC3099141
PMID: 21164504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

