

1935. J Vis. 2010 Dec 16;10(14):15. doi: 10.1167/10.14.15.

A simple method for creating wide-field visual stimulus for electrophysiology:
mapping and analyzing receptive fields using a hemispheric display.

Yu HH(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash Vision Group, Monash University, Clayton, 
VIC, Australia. hhyu00@gmail.com

Modern neurophysiological and psychophysical studies of vision are typically
based on computer-generated stimuli presented on flat screens. While this
approach allows precise delivery of stimuli, it suffers from a fundamental
limitation in terms of the maximum achievable spatial coverage. This constraint
becomes important in studies that require stimulation of large expanses of the
visual field, such as those involving the mapping of receptive fields throughout 
the extent of a cortical area or subcortical nucleus, or those comparing neural
response properties across a wide range of eccentricities. Here we describe a
simple and highly cost-effective method for the projection of computer-generated 
stimuli on a hemispheric screen, which combines the advantages of computerized
control and wide-field (100° × 75°) delivery, without the requirement of highly
specialized hardware. The description of the method includes programming
techniques for the generation of stimuli in spherical coordinates and for the
quantitative determination of receptive field sizes and shapes. The value of this
approach is demonstrated by quantitative electrophysiological data obtained in
the far peripheral representations of various cortical areas, including automated
mapping of receptive field extents in cortex that underwent plasticity following 
lesions.

DOI: 10.1167/10.14.15 
PMID: 21163958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

