

1937. J Neurosci. 2010 Dec 8;30(49):16741-54. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2016-10.2010.

Cortical processing of dynamic sound envelope transitions.

Zhou Y(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
zhouyi@jhu.edu

Slow envelope fluctuations in the range of 2-20 Hz provide important segmental
cues for processing communication sounds. For a successful segmentation, a neural
processor must capture envelope features associated with the rise and fall of
signal energy, a process that is often challenged by the interference of
background noise. This study investigated the neural representations of slowly
varying envelopes in quiet and in background noise in the primary auditory cortex
(A1) of awake marmoset monkeys. We characterized envelope features based on the
local average and rate of change of sound level in envelope waveforms and
identified envelope features to which neurons were selective by reverse
correlation. Our results showed that envelope feature selectivity of A1 neurons
was correlated with the degree of nonmonotonicity in their static rate-level
functions. Nonmonotonic neurons exhibited greater feature selectivity than
monotonic neurons in quiet and in background noise. The diverse envelope feature 
selectivity decreased spike-timing correlation among A1 neurons in response to
the same envelope waveforms. As a result, the variability, but not the average,
of the ensemble responses of A1 neurons represented more faithfully the dynamic
transitions in low-frequency sound envelopes both in quiet and in background
noise.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2016-10.2010 
PMCID: PMC3358036
PMID: 21148013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

