

1941. Cereb Cortex. 2011 Aug;21(8):1712-37. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhq239. Epub 2010 Dec
7.

Cortical input to the frontal pole of the marmoset monkey.

Burman KJ(1), Reser DH, Yu HH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

We used fluorescent tracers to map the pattern of cortical afferents to frontal
area 10 in marmosets. Dense projections originated in several subdivisions of
orbitofrontal cortex, in the medial frontal cortex (particularly areas 14 and
32), and in the dorsolateral frontal cortex (particularly areas 8Ad and 9). Major
projections also stemmed, in variable proportions depending on location of the
injection site, from both the inferior and superior temporal sensory association 
areas, suggesting a degree of audiovisual convergence. Other temporal projections
included the superior temporal polysensory cortex, temporal pole, and parabelt
auditory cortex. Medial area 10 received additional projections from
retrosplenial, rostral calcarine, and parahippocampal areas, while lateral area
10 received small projections from the ventral somatosensory and premotor areas. 
There were no afferents from posterior parietal or occipital areas. Most frontal 
connections were balanced in terms of laminar origin, giving few indications of
an anatomical hierarchy. The pattern of frontopolar afferents suggests an
interface between high-order representations of the sensory world and internally 
generated states, including working memory, which may subserve ongoing evaluation
of the consequences of decisions as well as other cognitive functions. The
results also suggest the existence of functional differences between subregions
of area 10.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhq239 
PMID: 21139076  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

