

1947. Proc Biol Sci. 2011 Jun 7;278(1712):1626-32. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2010.1890. Epub
2010 Nov 24.

Canaries in the coal mine: a cross-species analysis of the plurality of obesity
epidemics.

Klimentidis YC(1), Beasley TM, Lin HY, Murati G, Glass GE, Guyton M, Newton W,
Jorgensen M, Heymsfield SB, Kemnitz J, Fairbanks L, Allison DB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL, USA.

A dramatic rise in obesity has occurred among humans within the last several
decades. Little is known about whether similar increases in obesity have occurred
in animals inhabiting human-influenced environments. We examined samples
collectively consisting of over 20 000 animals from 24 populations (12 divided
separately into males and females) of animals representing eight species living
with or around humans in industrialized societies. In all populations, the
estimated coefficient for the trend of body weight over time was positive (i.e.
increasing). The probability of all trends being in the same direction by chance 
is 1.2 Ã— 10(-7). Surprisingly, we find that over the past several decades,
average mid-life body weights have risen among primates and rodents living in
research colonies, as well as among feral rodents and domestic dogs and cats. The
consistency of these findings among animals living in varying environments,
suggests the intriguing possibility that the aetiology of increasing body weight 
may involve several as-of-yet unidentified and/or poorly understood factors (e.g.
viral pathogens, epigenetic factors). This finding may eventually enhance the
discovery and fuller elucidation of other factors that have contributed to the
recent rise in obesity rates.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2010.1890 
PMCID: PMC3081766
PMID: 21106594  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

