

1948. J Immunol. 2010 Dec 15;185(12):7274-84. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1001547. Epub 2010 
Nov 15.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated apoptosis of EBV-transformed B cells by
cross-linking of CD70 is dependent upon generation of reactive oxygen species and
activation of p38 MAPK and JNK pathway.

Park GB(1), Kim YS, Lee HK, Song H, Cho DH, Lee WJ, Hur DY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Research Center for Tumor Immunology, Inje
University College of Medicine, Busan, Korea.

CD70 is expressed in normal activated immune cells as well as in several types of
tumors. It has been established that anti-CD70 mAb induces complement-dependent
death of CD70(+) tumor cells, but how anti-CD70 mAb affects the intrinsic
signaling is poorly defined. In this report, we show that ligation of CD70
expressed on EBV-transformed B cells using anti-CD70 mAb induced production of
reactive oxygen species (ROS) and subsequent apoptosis. We observed an early
expression of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response genes that preceded the 
release of apoptotic molecules from the mitochondria and the cleavage of
caspases. CD70-induced apoptosis was inhibited by pretreatment with the ER stress
inhibitor salubrinal, ROS quencher N-acetylcysteine, and Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA.
We supposed that ROS generation might be the first event of CD70-induced
apoptosis because N-acetylcysteine blocked increases of ROS and Ca(2+), but BAPTA
did not block ROS generation. We also found that CD70 stimulation activated JNK
and p38 MAPK. JNK inhibitor SP600125 and p38 inhibitor SB203580 effectively
blocked upregulation of ER stress-related genes and cleavage of caspases.
Inhibition of ROS generation completely blocked phosphorylation of JNK and p38
MAPK and induction of ER stress-related genes. Taken together, we concluded that 
cross-linking of CD70 on EBV-transformed B cells triggered ER stress-mediated
apoptosis via ROS generation and JNK and p38 MAPK pathway activation. Our report 
reveals alternate mechanisms of direct apoptosis through CD70 signaling and
provides data supporting CD70 as a viable target for an Ab-based therapy against 
EBV-related tumors.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1001547 
PMID: 21078900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

