

1954. Stem Cell Res. 2011 Jan;6(1):83-9. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2010.09.003. Epub 2010 Nov 
1.

Simple autogeneic feeder cell preparation for pluripotent stem cells.

Li W(1), Yamashita H, Hattori F, Chen H, Tohyama S, Satoh Y, Sasaki E, Yuasa S,
Makino S, Sano M, Fukuda K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Keio University School of
Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

Mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) are the most commonly used feeder cells for
pluripotent stem cells. However, autogeneic feeder (AF) cells have several
advantages such as no xenogeneic risks and reduced costs. In this report, we
demonstrate that common marmoset embryonic stem (cmES) cells can be maintained on
common marmoset AF (cmAF) cells. These cmES cells were maintained on cmAF cells
for 6 months, retaining their morphology, normal karyotype, and expression
patterns for the pluripotent markers Oct-3/4, Nanog, SSEA-3, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60,
and TRA-1-81, as well as their ability to differentiate into cardiac and neural
cells. Antibody array analysis revealed equivalent protein expression profiles
between cmES cells maintained on cmAF cells and MEFs. In addition, similarly
prepared human embryonic stem (hES) and induced pluripotent stem (hiPS)
cell-derived AF cells supported the growth of and maintained the morphology and
pluripotent marker expressions of hES and hiPS cells, respectively. DNA
microarray analysis revealed that these hES and hiPS cells had mRNA expression
profiles similar to those of hES and hiPS cells maintained on MEFs, respectively.
Taken together, these findings imply that AF cells can replace MEFs in the
routine maintenance of primate pluripotent stem cells.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2010.09.003 
PMID: 21041123  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

