

1957. Horm Behav. 2011 May;59(5):696-701. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2010.10.009. Epub 2010
Oct 26.

Conditioned sexual arousal in a nonhuman primate.

Snowdon CT(1), Tannenbaum PL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Ziegler TE, Ferris CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, 1202 West Johnson Street,
Madison, WI 53606, USA. snowdon@wisc.edu

Conditioning of sexual arousal has been demonstrated in several species from fish
to humans but has not been demonstrated in nonhuman primates. Controversy exists 
over whether nonhuman primates produce pheromones that arouse sexual behavior.
Although common marmosets copulate throughout the ovarian cycle and during
pregnancy, males exhibit behavioral signs of arousal, demonstrate increased
neural activation of anterior hypothalamus and medial preoptic area, and have an 
increase in serum testosterone after exposure to odors of novel ovulating females
suggestive of a sexually arousing pheromone. Males also have increased androgens 
prior to their mate's ovulation. However, males presented with odors of ovulating
females demonstrate activation of many other brain areas associated with
motivation, memory, and decision making. In this study, we demonstrate that male 
marmosets can be conditioned to a novel, arbitrary odor (lemon) with observation 
of erections, and increased exploration of the location where they previously
experienced a receptive female, and increased scratching in post-conditioning
test without a female present. This conditioned response was demonstrated up to a
week after the end of conditioning trials, a much longer lasting effect of
conditioning than reported in studies of other species. These results further
suggest that odors of ovulating females are not pheromones, strictly speaking and
that marmoset males may learn specific characteristics of odors of females
providing a possible basis for mate identification.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2010.10.009 
PMCID: PMC3043118
PMID: 21029736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

