

1959. Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(5):R200. doi: 10.1186/ar3172. Epub 2010 Oct 26.

Collagen-induced arthritis in common marmosets: a new nonhuman primate model for 
chronic arthritis.

Vierboom MP(1), Breedveld E, Kondova I, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Lange Kleiweg
161, 2288 GJ Rijswijk, The Netherlands. vierboom@bprc.nl

Comment in
    Arthritis Res Ther. 2010;12(6):148.

INTRODUCTION: There is an ever-increasing need for animal models to evaluate
efficacy and safety of new therapeutics in the field of rheumatoid arthritis
(RA). Particularly for the early preclinical evaluation of human-specific
biologicals targeting the progressive phase of the disease, there is a need for
relevant animal models. In response to this requirement we set out to develop a
model of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in a small-sized nonhuman primate
species (300 to 400 g at adult age); that is, the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).
METHODS: Twenty-two animals divided into three experiments were immunized with
collagen type II (CII) of either bovine or chicken origin with different
immunization strategies. The animals were analyzed for clinical manifestation of 
arthritis, hematology and clinical chemistry, immunological responses against CII
and histopathological features of the arthritis.
RESULTS: Clinically manifest arthritis was observed in almost 100% (21 out of 22)
of the animals. Fifty percent of the animals developed semi-acute CIA while the
other 50% displayed a more chronic disease. Both cellular (CD3/CD4 and CD3/CD8)
and humoral responses (IgM and IgG) against CII were involved in the development 
of the disease. Besides mild histopathological changes in bone and cartilage,
severe inflammation in extraarticular tissues like periosteum and subcutaneous
tissues was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: This new model in marmosets more closely resembles chronic RA with
respect to the chronic disease course and pathomorphological presentation than
the more acute monophasic and destructive CIA model in macaques. This model can
therefore fill a niche in preclinical testing of new human specific therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1186/ar3172 
PMCID: PMC2991037
PMID: 20977720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

