

1961. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2011 Feb;336(2):423-30. doi: 10.1124/jpet.110.169532. Epub 
2010 Oct 21.

Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibition reduces
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine-induced hyperactivity in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned non-human primate model of 
Parkinson's disease.

Johnston TH(1), Huot P, Fox SH, Wakefield JD, Sykes KA, Bartolini WP, Milne GT,
Pearson JP, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Dopaminergic therapies remain the most efficacious symptomatic treatments for
Parkinson's disease (PD) but are associated with motor complications, including
dyskinesia, and nonmotor complications, such as psychosis, impulse control
disorders (ICD), and dopamine dysregulation syndrome (DDS). Nondopaminergic
neurotransmitter systems, including the endocannabinoid system, are probably
critical to the development of these complications. The role of fatty acid amide 
hydrolase (FAAH) in mediating l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced
behaviors was explored in the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned marmoset model of PD.
Pharmacodynamic and locomotor effects of the selective FAAH inhibitor
[3-(3-carbamoylphenyl)phenyl] N-cyclohexylcarbamate (URB597) were assessed via
bioanalytical (liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry) and behavioral
observation approaches. URB597 (3, 10, 30, or 60 mg/kg p.o.) increased plasma
levels of the FAAH substrates N-arachidonoyl ethanolamide (anandamide), N-oleoyl 
ethanolamide, and N-palmitoyl ethanolamide by 10.3 ± 0.3-, 7.8 ± 0.2-, and 1.8 ± 
0.1-fold (mean of URB597 groups ± S.E.M.), respectively, compared with vehicle
(all p < 0.001) 4 h after administration. Treatment with L-DOPA (20 mg/kg s.c.)
alleviated parkinsonism but elicited dyskinesia, psychosis-like-behaviors and
hyperactivity, a potential correlate of ICD and DDS. During the 2 to 4 h after
L-DOPA, corresponding to 4 to 6 h after URB597 administration, URB597 reduced
total L-DOPA-induced activity and the magnitude of hyperactivity by 32 and 52%,
respectively, to levels equivalent to those seen in normal animals. Treatment
with URB597 (10 mg/kg p.o.) did not modify the antiparkinsonian actions of L-DOPA
or L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and psychosis. URB597 did not alter plasma L-DOPA
levels and was without behavioral effects when administered alone. Inhibition of 
FAAH may represent a novel approach to reducing L-DOPA-induced side effects, such
as ICD and DDS, while maintaining the antiparkinsonian benefits of L-DOPA
treatment.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.110.169532 
PMID: 20966038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

