

1963. J Hum Evol. 2010 Dec;59(6):595-607. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2010.06.008. Epub 2010 
Oct 16.

The bony labyrinth of the early platyrrhine primate Chilecebus.

Ni X(1), Flynn JJ, Wyss AR.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History, Central Park
West at 79th Street, New York, NY 10024, USA.nixijun@ivpp.ac.cn

We document the morphology of the bony labyrinth of Chilecebus carrascoensis, one
of the best preserved early platyrrhines known, based on high resolution CT
scanning and 3D digital reconstruction. The cochlea is low and conical in form,
as in other anthropoids, but has only 2.5 spiral turns. When the allometric
relationship with body mass is considered, cochlear size is similar to that in
extant primates. The relative size of the semicircular canals, which is well
within the range of other primates, indicates that Chilecebus carrascoensis was
probably not as agile in its locomotion as other small-bodied platyrrhines such
as Leontopithecus rosalia, Saguinus oedipus, and Callithrix jacchus, but it
probably was not a suspensory acrobat or a slow climber. The proportion, shape,
and orientation of the semicircular canals in Chilecebus carrascoensis also
mirror that typically seen in extant primates. However, no single variable can be
used for predicting the locomotor pattern in Chilecebus carrascoensis. Based on
Principle Component Analysis (PCA) scores we calculated rescaled Euclidean
distances for various taxa; primates with similar locomotor patterns tend to
share shorter distances. Results for Chilecebus carrascoensis underscore its
general resemblance to living quadrupedal primate taxa, but it is not positioned 
especially near any single living taxon.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2010.06.008 
PMID: 20952046  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

