

1965. Int J Primatol. 2010 Oct;31(5):796-812. Epub 2010 Aug 7.

Effects of Habitat Structure and Fragmentation on Diversity and Abundance of
Primates in Tropical Deciduous Forests in Bolivia.

Pyritz LW, BÃ¼ntge AB, Herzog SK, Kessler M.

Habitat structure and anthropogenic disturbance are known to affect primate
diversity and abundance. However, researchers have focused on lowland rain
forests, whereas endangered deciduous forests have been neglected. We aimed to
investigate the relationships between primate diversity and abundance and habitat
parameters in 10 deciduous forest fragments southeast of Santa Cruz, Bolivia. We 
obtained primate data via line-transect surveys and visual and acoustic
observations. In addition, we assessed the vegetation structure (canopy height,
understory density), size, isolation time, and surrounding forest area of the
fragments. We interpreted our results in the context of the historical
distribution data for primates in the area before fragmentation and interviews
with local people. We detected 5 of the 8 historically observed primate species: 
Alouatta caraya, Aotus azarae boliviensis, Callithrix melanura, Callicebus
donacophilus, and Cebus libidinosus juruanus. Total species number and detection 
rates decreased with understory density. Detection rates also negatively
correlated with forest areas in the surroundings of a fragment, which may be due 
to variables not assessed, i.e., fragment shape, distance to nearest town.
Observations for Alouatta and Aotus were too few to conduct further statistics.
Cebus and Callicebus were present in 90% and 70% of the sites, respectively, and 
their density did not correlate with any of the habitat variables assessed,
signaling high ecological plasticity and adaptability to anthropogenic impact in 
these species. Detections of Callithrix were higher in areas with low forest
strata. Our study provides baseline data for future fragmentation studies in
Neotropical dry deciduous forests and sets a base for specific conservation
measures.

DOI: 10.1007/s10764-010-9429-z 
PMCID: PMC2945471
PMID: 20949116 

