

1966. J Pharmacol Sci. 2010;114(3):298-303. Epub 2010 Oct 8.

Zonisamide attenuates MPTP neurotoxicity in marmosets.

Choudhury ME(1), Moritoyo T, Yabe H, Nishikawa N, Nagai M, Kubo M, Matsuda S,
Nomoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Therapeutic Medicine, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Japan.

MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) induces parkinsonism in
humans and animals. The effects of zonisamide on dopamine neurons were studied in
MPTP-treated common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Groups of animals (n = 3)
were treated with MPTP (2.5 mg/kg, every 24 h x 3); MPTP plus zonisamide (40
mg/kg administered 1 h before each MPTP dose); MPTP plus selegiline (a known
MAO-B inhibitor) (2 mg/kg administered 1 h before each MPTP dose); and saline
controls. An immunohistochemical study of the substantia nigra was performed 14
days after MPTP treatment in each group. MPTP reduced the mean number of tyrosine
hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons to 10% of the normal control group and mean
cell size was significantly (P < 0.001) reduced from 424 to 159 µm². In the group
pre-treated with zonisamide, the mean number of TH-positive neurons was reduced
to 26% of that in the normal control group and the mean neuron size was
significantly (P < 0.05) increased from 159 to 273 µm² compared with the group
treated with MPTP alone. Moreover, in the group pre-treated with selegiline, the 
mean number of TH-positive neurons was 47% of that in the normal control group
and the mean neuron size was increased significantly (P < 0.01) from 159 to 319
µm² compared to the group treated with MPTP alone. This observation suggests that
zonisamide reduces MPTP toxicity.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.10120fp 
PMID: 20948167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

