

1968. J Vis. 2010 Jul 1;10(8):1. doi: 10.1167/10.8.1.

Receptive field asymmetries produce color-dependent direction selectivity in
primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Tailby C(1), Dobbie WJ, Solomon SG, Szmajda BA, Hashemi-Nezhad M, Forte JD,
Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute and ARC Centre of Excellence in Vision Science,
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. ctailby@unimelb.edu.au

Blue-on receptive fields recorded in primate retina and lateral geniculate
nucleus are customarily described as showing overlapping blue-on and yellow-off
receptive field components. However, the retinal pathways feeding the blue-on and
yellow-off subfields arise from spatially discrete receptor populations, and
recent studies have given contradictory accounts of receptive field structure of 
blue-on cells. Here we analyzed responses of blue-on cells to drifting gratings, 
in single-cell extracellular recordings from the dorsal lateral geniculate
nucleus in marmosets. We show that most blue-on cells exhibit selectivity for the
drift direction of achromatic gratings. The standard concentric
difference-of-Gaussians (DOG) model thus cannot account for responses of these
cells. We apply a simple, anatomically plausible, extension of the DOG model. The
model incorporates temporally offset elliptical two-dimensional Gaussian
subfields. The model can predict color-contingent direction and spatial tuning.
Because direction tuning in blue-on cells depends on stimulus chromaticity,
spatial frequency, and temporal frequency, this property is of little value as a 
general mechanism for image movement detection. It is possible that anatomical
wiring for color selectivity has constrained the capacity of blue-on cells to
contribute to spatial and motion vision.

DOI: 10.1167/10.8.1 
PMID: 20884576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

