

1969. Endocrinology. 2010 Dec;151(12):5905-15. doi: 10.1210/en.2010-0283. Epub 2010 Sep
29.

A thrombospondin-mimetic peptide, ABT-898, suppresses angiogenesis and promotes
follicular atresia in pre- and early-antral follicles in vivo.

Garside SA(1), Henkin J, Morris KD, Norvell SM, Thomas FH, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, Queens Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, UK.
S.Garside@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

Using a novel in vitro angiogenesis assay, we previously showed that
thrombospondin (TSP)-1 has antiangiogenic effects on rat follicles and induces
apoptosis in granulosa cells in vitro. ABT-898 is an octapeptide mimetic of TSP-1
closely related to ABT-510. Here, we demonstrate the inhibitory effects of
ABT-898 on follicular angiogenesis and its proapoptotic effect on granulosa
cells. To investigate the potential of this peptide to inhibit follicular
angiogenesis in vivo, marmoset monkeys were treated with 2.5 mg/kg ABT-898 twice 
daily throughout the follicular phase of the cycle. Although treatment did not
block emergence of dominant follicles, angiogenesis was reduced in preantral and 
early-antral follicles. Furthermore, the incidence of atresia at these follicle
stages was increased. To investigate whether treatment with ABT-898 would
interfere with the timing or duration of the normal ovulatory rise in plasma
progesterone, marmosets were treated with a depot formulation containing 25 mg
ABT-898 at the start of the follicular phase, with a second injection after 2 wk.
Despite active concentrations of peptide being maintained in the circulation, no 
apparent effects on the ovulatory cycle were observed. Taken together, these
results indicate that ABT-898 is capable of having a dual effect by inhibiting
follicular angiogenesis and promoting atresia of antral follicles in vivo but
does not prevent ovulation or induce luteolysis, as has been observed with direct
vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors. These results suggest that ABT-898
could be a novel therapeutic to inhibit abnormal angiogenesis and induce atresia 
of accumulated follicles in polycystic ovary syndrome.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2010-0283 
PMID: 20881256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

