

1970. Am J Primatol. 2010 Nov;72(11):1004-12. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20850.

Pattern of maternal circulating CRH in laboratory-housed squirrel and owl
monkeys.

Power ML(1), Williams LE, Gibson SV, Schulkin J, Helfers J, Zorrilla EP.

Author information: 
(1)Conservation Ecology Center, Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington,
District of Columbia, USA. mpower@acog.org

The anthropoid primate placenta appears to be unique in producing
corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). Placental CRH is involved in an endocrine 
circuit key to the production of estrogens during pregnancy. CRH induces cortisol
production by the maternal and fetal adrenal glands, leading to further placental
CRH production. CRH also stimulates the fetal adrenal glands to produce
dehydroepiandrostendione sulfate (DHEAS), which the placenta converts into
estrogens. There are at least two patterns of maternal circulating CRH across
gestation among anthropoids. Monkeys examined to date (Papio and Callithrix) have
an early-to-mid gestational peak of circulating CRH, followed by a steady decline
to a plateau level, with a possible rise near parturition. In contrast, humans
and great apes have an exponential rise in circulating CRH peaking at
parturition. To further document and compare patterns of maternal circulating CRH
in anthropoid primates, we collected monthly blood samples from 14 squirrel
monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis) and ten owl monkeys (Aotus nancymaae) during
pregnancy. CRH immunoreactivity was measured from extracted plasma by using
solid-phase radioimmunoassay. Both squirrel and owl monkeys displayed a
mid-gestational peak in circulating CRH: days 45-65 of the 152-day gestation for 
squirrel monkeys (mean±SEM CRH=2,694±276 pg/ml) and days 60-80 of the 133-day
gestation for owl monkeys (9,871±974 pg/ml). In squirrel monkeys, circulating CRH
declined to 36% of mean peak value by 2 weeks before parturition and then
appeared to increase; the best model for circulating CRH over gestation in
squirrel monkeys was a cubic function, similar to previous results for baboons
and marmosets. In owl monkeys, circulating CRH appeared to reach plateau with no 
subsequent significant decline approaching parturition, although a cubic function
was the best fit. This study provides additional evidence for a mid-gestational
peak of maternal circulating CRH in ancestral anthropoids that has been lost in
the hominoid lineage.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20850 
PMCID: PMC2947327
PMID: 20872786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

