

1972. Exp Neurol. 2010 Dec;226(2):320-7. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2010.09.007. Epub
2010 Sep 16.

The partial dopamine agonist pardoprunox (SLV308) administered in combination
with l-dopa improves efficacy and decreases dyskinesia in MPTP treated common
marmosets.

Tayarani-Binazir K(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, McCreary AC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Biomedical and Health
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Dopamine agonist treatment in early Parkinson's disease (PD) induces less
dyskinesia than l-dopa. However, once dyskinesia has developed, dopamine agonists
administered with l-dopa exacerbate involuntary movements. The dopamine partial
D2/D3 agonist pardoprunox reverses motor deficits in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates without hyperactivity, indicating that pardoprunox may alleviate
dyskinesia without compromising l-dopa's beneficial actions. This study examines 
a clinical scenario in which pardoprunox was introduced, in an l-dopa sparing
strategy, to existing l-dopa treatment in MPTP-treated marmosets previously
primed to express dyskinesia. l-Dopa (5-10 mg/kg) produced effects, which were
stable over the 13 treatment days, of increased locomotor activity, reversed
motor disability and marked dyskinesia. Pardoprunox (SLV308; 0.0125-0.025 mg/kg) 
plus l-dopa (3-10 mg/kg) administration increased locomotor activity over the
same treatment period and initially produced an equivalent reversal of motor
disability compared to l-dopa, however this effect was enhanced as treatment
progressed. This reflected the prolonged duration of effect of pardoprunox
compared to that of l-dopa. While pardoprunox plus l-dopa treatment initially
produced dyskinesia to the same extent as l-dopa alone, the intensity diminished 
as treatment progressed and it was significantly different at the end of the
study. On subsequent l-dopa challenge there was no difference in motor disability
reversal between those animals previously treated with pardoprunox plus l-dopa
compared to l-dopa alone but the combination treatment produced significantly
less dyskinesia. These data suggest that pardoprunox may provide therapeutic
benefit in mid to late stage PD by reducing dyskinesia while maintaining efficacy
when used with concomitant l-dopa treatment.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2010.09.007 
PMID: 20843474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

