

1973. Anim Cogn. 2011 Mar;14(2):175-86. doi: 10.1007/s10071-010-0351-8. Epub 2010 Sep
10.

Modulation of physical understanding by common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Yamazaki Y(1), Iriki A, Watanabe S.

Author information: 
(1)The Graduate School of Sociology, Keio University, 2F Mita Toho Building,
3-1-7 Mita, Tokyo, 108-0073, Japan. yumyam@brain.riken.jp

The understanding of physical causality in common marmosets was tested using
support problems in which a pair of sheets was presented to determine whether
subjects would choose the sheet that had a food item on it (i.e., the sheet was
supporting the food item). In two experiments, the conditions were manipulated in
terms of the length of the sheet, the distance between the sheet and the food
item, the presence of a gap separating the two sheets, and the size of the food
item. In Experiment 1, the marmosets had difficulty rejecting an irretrievable
food item when it was located closer to them than a retrievable item. Although
their performance was strongly affected by the size of the irretrievable food
item, they quickly learned to reject that alternative. In contrast, no
improvement was found when one sheet was divided into two pieces such that the
food item could not be retrieved when its near side was pulled. A similar
response tendency was observed in Experiment 2, in which the effects of the large
food item were examined in three different conditions. Thus, common marmosets
were influenced by the perceptual features of the food in solving the support
problems, as are other non-human primates. In addition, they consistently failed 
to appreciate the presence of a gap and, therefore, failed to reject the
distracter alternative. However, all animals rapidly learned that the size of the
food item was an irrelevant variable, and some showed an elementary conceptual
understanding of support. These findings suggest that marmosets' physical
understanding may improve with experience.

Â© The Author(s) 2010. This article is published with open access at
Springerlink.com

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-010-0351-8 
PMCID: PMC3040304
PMID: 20830498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

