

1976. Chronobiol Int. 2010 Aug;27(7):1420-37. doi: 10.3109/07420528.2010.501416.

Influence of seasonality on circadian motor activity rhythm in common marmosets
during puberty.

Melo PR(1), Belísio AS, Menezes AA, Azevedo CV.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Programa de Pós-Graduação em Psicobiologia,
Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal,
Brazil.

The effect of puberty on circadian rhythmicity in nonhuman primates has been
little studied, even though it has been demonstrated that puberty-related changes
in circadian activity rhythm occur in a number of species, including humans. To
characterize the motor activity rhythm during puberty in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), six animals was continuously monitored by actimeters
between their 5th and 12th months of age. The animals were housed with their
families in outdoor cages under seminatural conditions. Onset of puberty was
determined from fecal estrogen and progesterone levels in females and androgen
levels in males. The spectral power of the circadian component stabilized later
in the last two animals to enter puberty. The bimodal characteristic of the
active phase in this species became progressively more apparent over the course
of the months in which the mean temperature was highest, irrespective of the
animal's age. Although the onset of activity advanced after entry into puberty,
this parameter showed a strong correlation with sunrise, indicating that
seasonality influences this variable. Neither age nor climatic factors included
in the regression model influenced the differences in phase angles between
sunrise and onset of activity, and between sunset and offset of activity. Total
activity was the only parameter influenced by age in the regression model,
showing an increase after entry into puberty. Despite the evidence of pubertal
influence on both the circadian component and total activity, under seminatural
conditions seasonal factors may have a more important effect on motor activity
rhythm in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.3109/07420528.2010.501416 
PMID: 20795884  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

