

1977. J Immunol. 2010 Oct 1;185(7):3990-4003. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1001393. Epub 2010 
Aug 25.

Late B cell depletion with a human anti-human CD20 IgG1κ monoclonal antibody
halts the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in marmosets.

Kap YS(1), van Driel N, Blezer E, Parren PW, Bleeker WK, Laman JD, Craigen JL, 't
Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Depletion of CD20(+) B cells has been related to reduced clinical activity in
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. The underlying mechanism is not
understood, because serum IgG levels were unaltered by the treatment. We report
the effect of late B cell depletion on cellular and humoral immune mechanisms in 
a preclinical multiple sclerosis model (i.e., experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis [EAE] in the common marmoset). We used a novel human anti-human
CD20 IgG1κ mAb (HuMab 7D8) that cross-reacts with marmoset CD20. EAE was induced 
in 14 marmosets by immunization with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG) in CFA. After 21 d, B cells were depleted in seven monkeys by 
HuMab 7D8, and seven control monkeys received PBS. The Ab induced profound and
long-lasting B cell depletion from PBMCs and lymphoid organs throughout the
observation period of 106 d. Whereas all of the control monkeys developed
clinically evident EAE, overt neurologic deficits were reduced substantially in
three HuMab 7D8-treated monkeys, and four HuMab 7D8-treated monkeys remained
completely asymptomatic. The effect of HuMab 7D8 was confirmed on magnetic
resonance images, detecting only small lesions in HuMab 7D8-treated monkeys. The 
infusion of HuMab 7D8 arrested the progressive increase of anti-MOG IgG Abs.
Although CD3(+) T cell numbers in lymphoid organs were increased, their
proliferation and cytokine production were impaired significantly. Most notable
were the substantially reduced mRNA levels of IL-7 and proinflammatory cytokines 
(IL-6, IL-17A, IFN-γ, and TNF-α). In conclusion, B cell depletion prevents the
development of clinical and pathological signs of EAE, which is associated with
impaired activation of MOG-reactive T cells in lymphoid organs.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1001393 
PMID: 20739677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

