

1979. Reproduction. 2010 Nov;140(5):733-42. doi: 10.1530/REP-10-0235. Epub 2010 Aug 20.

Germ cell dynamics in the testis of the postnatal common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

Albert S(1), Ehmcke J, Wistuba J, Eildermann K, Behr R, Schlatt S, Gromoll J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, University of Münster, Domagkstrasse 11, 48149 Münster,
Germany.

The seminiferous epithelium in the nonhuman primate Callithrix jacchus is
similarly organized to man. This monkey has therefore been used as a preclinical 
model for spermatogenesis and testicular stem cell physiology. However, little is
known about the developmental dynamics of germ cells in the postnatal primate
testis. In this study, we analyzed testes of newborn, 8-week-old, and adult
marmosets employing immunohistochemistry using pluripotent stem cell and germ
cell markers DDX4 (VASA), POU5F1 (OCT3/4), and TFAP2C (AP-2γ). Stereological and 
morphometric techniques were applied for quantitative analysis of germ cell
populations and testicular histological changes. Quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) of
testicular mRNA was applied using 16 marker genes establishing the corresponding 
profiles during postnatal testicular development. Testis size increased during
the first 8 weeks of life with the main driver being longitudinal outgrowth of
seminiferous cords. The number of DDX4-positive cells per testis doubled between 
birth and 8 weeks of age whereas TFAP2C- and POU5F1-positive cells remained
unchanged. This increase in DDX4-expressing cells indicates dynamic growth of the
differentiated A-spermatogonial population. The presence of cells expressing
POU5F1 and TFAP2C after 8 weeks reveals the persistence of less differentiated
germ cells. The mRNA and protein profiles determined by qRT-PCR and western blot 
in newborn, 8-week-old, and adult marmosets corroborated the immunohistochemical 
findings. In conclusion, we demonstrated the presence of distinct spermatogonial 
subpopulations in the primate testis exhibiting different dynamics during early
testicular development. Our study demonstrates the suitability of the marmoset
testis as a model for human testicular development.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-10-0235 
PMID: 20729334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

