

1980. Mov Disord. 2010 Oct 15;25(13):2059-66. doi: 10.1002/mds.23249.

Pardoprunox reverses motor deficits but induces only mild dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Johnston LC(1), Jackson MJ, Rose S, McCreary AC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Long-acting full dopamine D(2) agonists produce less dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated primates and in
Parkinson's disease than effective antiparkinsonian doses of levodopa. They do
not however, prevent priming for dyskinesia expression on subsequent levodopa
exposure. In contrast, the effects of partial D(2) receptor agonists on
dyskinesia are unclear. We now examine the ability of the partial D(2) agonist
pardoprunox (SLV308) to improve motor function and its propensity to prime for
dyskinesia in drug naïve, MPTP-treated common marmosets. Previously, drug naïve, 
MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with equivalent doses of either
pardoprunox (SLV308) (0.1 mg/kg po), ropinirole (0.18 mg/kg po), or levodopa (10 
mg/kg po BID) for 28 days. All treatments induced a similar reduction of motor
disability. Dyskinesia induced by levodopa was of greater intensity than that
following administration of either pardoprunox (SLV308) or ropinirole.
Administration of pardoprunox (SLV308) resulted in dyskinesia that was less
intense and of shorter duration than either ropinirole or levodopa. At the end of
drug treatment, acute challenge with levodopa resulted in the expression of
marked dyskinesia in animals that had previously received chronic levodopa or
ropinirole treatment. However, animals previously treated with pardoprunox
(SLV308) showed only mild dyskinesia in response to the levodopa challenge. These
results suggest that the partial D(2) agonist pardoprunox (SLV308) is less likely
to prime for dyskinesia or to lead to the expression of dyskinesia than either
levodopa or full dopamine agonists.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.23249 
PMID: 20721904  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

