

1986. Am J Primatol. 2010 Dec;72(12):1100-7. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20873.

Line transect surveying of arboreal monkeys: problems of group size and spread in
a highly fragmented landscape.

Ferrari SF(1), Chagas RR, Souza-Alves JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Universidade Federal de Sergipe, Av. Marechal Rondon
s/n–Rosa Elze 49, São Cristóvão-SE, Brazil. ferrari@pq.cnpq.br

Erratum in
    Am J Primatol. 2011 May;73(5):501.

Line transect surveying is a relatively rapid and efficient procedure for the
assessment of primate populations; although the reliability of the resulting
density estimates is affected by a number of factors, including habitat
configuration. In this study, primate populations were surveyed at a highly
fragmented site in northeastern Brazil, where the resident species include the
endangered Coimbra-Filho's titi, Callicebus coimbrai, and the critically
endangered yellow-breasted capuchin, Cebus xanthosternos. In addition to standard
line transect surveys, data were collected on the composition and distribution of
resident groups during playback surveys and ecological monitoring. During
surveys, a 5.3-km trail system was walked regularly over a 7-month period,
accumulating a total transect length of 476 km and 104 sightings of Callicebus
and 41 of Cebus (as well as 19 records of a third primate, Callithrix jacchus).
Data were analyzed using the DISTANCE program and the Kelker method, using the
perpendicular distances to first animal sighted. Estimates of group density were 
highly discrepant from known values for both species; although in the case of
Cebus, this seemed to reflect grouping patterns at the site. For Callicebus,
population density was overestimated considerably when known group counts were
used. Overall, there seems to be a need for a much more rigorous standardization 
of procedures, and the analysis and presentation of results, in order to
guarantee the most reliable interpretation possible of the data. These
considerations are especially important in the case of endangered species, such
as those studied here.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20873 
PMID: 20683881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

