

1987. Genes Cells. 2010 Sep 1;15(9):959-69. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2010.01437.x. Epub
2010 Jul 28.

Generating induced pluripotent stem cells from common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) fetal liver cells using defined factors, including Lin28.

Tomioka I(1), Maeda T, Shimada H, Kawai K, Okada Y, Igarashi H, Oiwa R, Iwasaki
T, Aoki M, Kimura T, Shiozawa S, Shinohara H, Suemizu H, Sasaki E, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kanagawa, Japan.

Although embryonic stem (ES) cell-like induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells have 
potential therapeutic applications in humans, they are also useful for creating
genetically modified human disease models in nonhuman primates. In this study, we
generated common marmoset iPS cells from fetal liver cells via the
retrovirus-mediated introduction of six human transcription factors: Oct-3/4,
Sox2, Klf4, c-Myc, Nanog, and Lin28. Four to five weeks after introduction,
several colonies resembling marmoset ES cells were observed and picked for
further expansion in ES cell medium. Eight cell lines were established, and
validation analyses of the marmoset iPS cells followed. We detected the
expression of ES cell-specific surface markers. Reverse transcription-PCR showed 
that these iPS cells expressed endogenous Oct-3/4, Sox2, Klf4, c-Myc, Nanog and
Lin28 genes, whereas all of the transgenes were silenced. Karyotype analysis
showed that two of three iPS cell lines retained a normal karyotype after a
2-month culture. Both embryoid body and teratoma formation showed that marmoset
iPS cells had the developmental potential to give rise to differentiated
derivatives of all three primary germ layers. In summary, we generated marmoset
iPS cells via the transduction of six transcription factors; this provides a
powerful preclinical model for studies in regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2010.01437.x 
PMCID: PMC2970909
PMID: 20670273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

