

1994. Biol Lett. 2011 Feb 23;7(1):23-5. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2010.0455. Epub 2010 Jun 23.

Brevity is not always a virtue in primate communication.

Bezerra BM(1), Souto AS, Radford AN, Jones G.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, , Woodland Road, Bristol
BS8 1UG, UK.

Semple et al. (Semple et al. in press, Biol. Lett. (doi:10.1098/rsbl.2009.1062)) 
argued that the 'law of brevity' (an inverse relationship between word length and
frequency of use) applies not only to human language but also to vocal signalling
in non-human primates, because coding efficiency is paramount in both situations.
We analysed the frequency of use of signals of different duration in the vocal
repertoires of two Neotropical primate species studied in the wild-the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and the golden-backed uakari (Cacajao
melanocephalus). The key prediction of the law of brevity was not supported in
either species: although the most frequently emitted calls were relatively brief,
they were not the shortest signals in the repertoire. The costs and benefits
associated with signals of different duration must be appreciated to understand
properly their frequency of use. Although relatively brief vocal signals may be
favoured by natural selection in order to minimize energetic costs, the very
briefest signals may be ambiguous, contain reduced information or be difficult to
detect or locate, and may therefore be selected against. Analogies between human 
language and vocal communication in animals can be misleading as a basis for
understanding frequency of use, because coding efficiency is not the only factor 
of importance in animal communication, and the costs and benefits associated with
different signal durations will vary in a species-specific manner.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2010.0455 
PMCID: PMC3030868
PMID: 20573617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

