

2001. J Neurosci. 2010 May 26;30(21):7314-25. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5072-09.2010.

Contribution of inhibition to stimulus selectivity in primary auditory cortex of 
awake primates.

Sadagopan S(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Recent studies have demonstrated the high selectivity of neurons in primary
auditory cortex (A1) and a highly sparse representation of sounds by the
population of A1 neurons in awake animals. However, the underlying receptive
field structures that confer high selectivity on A1 neurons are poorly
understood. The sharp tuning of A1 neurons' excitatory receptive fields (RFs)
provides a partial explanation of the above properties. However, it remains
unclear how inhibitory components of RFs contribute to the selectivity of A1
neurons observed in awake animals. To examine the role of the inhibition in
sharpening stimulus selectivity, we have quantitatively analyzed stimulus-induced
suppressive effects over populations of single neurons in frequency, amplitude,
and time in A1 of awake marmosets. In addition to the well documented
short-latency side-band suppression elicited by masking tones around the best
frequency (BF) of a neuron, we uncovered long-latency suppressions caused by
single-tone stimulation. Such long-latency suppressions also included
monotonically increasing suppression with sound level both on-BF and off-BF, and 
persistent suppression lasting up to 100 ms after stimulus offset in a
substantial proportion of A1 neurons. The extent of the suppression depended on
the shape of a neuron's frequency-response area ("O" or "V" shaped). These
findings suggest that the excitatory RF of A1 neurons is cocooned by wide-ranging
inhibition that contributes to the high selectivity in A1 neurons' responses to
complex stimuli. Population sparseness of the tone-responsive A1 neuron
population may also be a consequence of this pervasive inhibition.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5072-09.2010 
PMCID: PMC3842484
PMID: 20505098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

