

2002. J Comp Neurol. 2010 Jul 1;518(13):2633-44. doi: 10.1002/cne.22356.

SPP1 is expressed in corticospinal neurons of the macaque sensorimotor cortex.

Higo N(1), Sato A, Yamamoto T, Nishimura Y, Oishi T, Murata Y, Onoe H,
Yoshino-Saito K, Tsuboi F, Takahashi M, Isa T, Kojima T.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial
Science and Technology (AIST), Umezono, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8568, Japan.
n.higo@aist.go.jp

The cellular distribution of SPP1, which we recently identified as a gene with
greater expression in the macaque primary motor cortex than in the premotor or
prefrontal cortices, was examined in rhesus macaque, common marmoset, and rat
brains. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that SPP1 mRNA was
expressed specifically in pyramidal neurons in layer V of the sensorimotor cortex
of the rhesus macaque. These SPP1 mRNA-positive neurons were most abundant in the
primary motor area, followed by Brodmann area 5 and the supplementary motor area,
in accordance with the distribution of corticospinal neurons. In addition,
injection of a retrograde neuroanatomical tracer into the lateral corticospinal
tract (CST) of the spinal cord caused labeling of SPP1 positive neurons,
indicating the expression of SPP1 in corticospinal neurons. SPP1 was also
expressed in the thalamus, brainstem, and spinal ventral horn of the rhesus
macaque. Although SPP1 was also detected in the brainstem and spinal cord of the 
marmoset and the rat, it was not detected in their cerebral cortices. Selective
expression in the corticospinal neurons of the sensorimotor cortex of the rhesus 
macaque suggests that SPP1 plays a critical role in the functional or structural 
specialization of highly developed corticospinal systems in certain primate
species.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22356 
PMID: 20503431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

