

2007. Vet Pathol. 2010 Sep;47(5):969-76. doi: 10.1177/0300985810369905. Epub 2010 May
11.

Small intestinal adenocarcinoma in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Miller AD(1), Kramer JA, Lin KC, Knight H, Martinot A, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)New England Regional Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, One Pine
Hill Drive, Southborough, MA 01760, USA. Andrew_Miller@hms.harvard.edu

Small intestinal adenocarcinomas are uncommon neoplasms that are rarely reported 
in nonhuman primates. These neoplasms are also rare in humans, although they are 
thought to share a similar pathogenesis with the more common colorectal
carcinoma. Herein the authors report the clinical, histologic,
immunohistochemical, and molecular characteristics of small intestinal
adenocarcinoma in 10 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Retrospective
analysis of necropsy records revealed small intestinal carcinoma to be the most
common neoplastic cause of morbidity and mortality in aged common marmosets. The 
average age of affected animals was 6.6 years old, and there was no sex
predilection. Nine of 10 (90%) tumors arose within the proximal small intestine
near the interface with the duodenum. All cases were characterized by
disorganization, loss of polarity, and proliferation of neoplastic epithelial
cells along the crypt to midvillous interface. Two of 10 (20%) were defined as
carcinoma in situ. Eight of 10 (80%) had some degree of invasion, with lymphatic 
invasion and lymph node metastasis present in 6 of 10 (60%) animals.
Immunohistochemically, 10 of 10 (100%) expressed cytokeratin; 7 of 9 (77%)
expressed E-cadherin; and 8 of 9 (88%) expressed beta-catenin. The expression of 
E-cadherin and beta-catenin was decreased in the cell membrane and increased in
the cytoplasm. No Helicobacter-like bacteria were observed via silver stain, and 
callitrichine herpesvirus 3 was detected by polymerase chain reaction with equal 
frequency from neoplastic and nonneoplastic intestinal sections. The tumors
described in this population illustrate comparable features to human cases of
small intestine carcinoma and may serve as a potential animal model for small
intestinal carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985810369905 
PMCID: PMC2955325
PMID: 20460447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

