

2008. Cereb Cortex. 2011 Jan;21(1):178-90. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhq079. Epub 2010 May
10.

Level-tuned neurons in primary auditory cortex adapt differently to loud versus
soft sounds.

Watkins PV(1), Barbour DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St Louis, St
Louis, MO 63130, USA.

The responses of auditory neurons tuned to stimulus intensity (i.e., nonmonotonic
rate-level responders) have typically been analyzed with stimulus paradigms that 
eliminate neuronal adaptation to recent stimulus statistics. This procedure is
usually accomplished by presenting individual sounds with long silent periods
between them. Studies using such paradigms have led to hypotheses that
nonmonotonic neurons may play a role in amplitude spectrum coding or
level-invariant representations of complex spectral shapes. We have previously
proposed an alternate hypothesis that level-tuned neurons may represent
specialized coders of low sound levels because they preserve their sensitivity to
low levels even when average sound level is relatively high. Here we demonstrate 
that nonmonotonic neurons in awake marmoset primary auditory cortex accomplish
this feat by adapting their upper dynamic range to encode sounds with high mean
level, leaving the lower dynamic range available for encoding relatively rare
low-level sounds. This adaptive behavior manifests in nonmonotonic relative to
monotonic neurons as 1) a lesser amount of overall shifting of rate-level
response thresholds and (2) a nonmonotonic gain adjustment with increasing mean
stimulus level.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhq079 
PMCID: PMC3000570
PMID: 20457692  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

