

2009. Vet Clin Pathol. 2010 Mar;39(1):5-19. doi: 10.1111/j.1939-165X.2010.00217.x.

Laboratory diagnosis of malaria in nonhuman primates.

Ameri M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Wyeth Research, Chazy, NY, USA.
amerim@wyeth.com

Nonhuman primates (NHPs) are commonly used for biomedical research because of the
high level of gene homology that underlies physiologic similarity to human
beings. Malaria parasites of the genus Plasmodium cause one of the most frequent 
parasitic diseases of NHPs originating from tropical and subtropical areas and as
such represent a significant research confounder. Malaria in NHPs presents a
diagnostic challenge especially to those laboratories that see no more than a few
malaria cases per year in NHPs. The accurate and timely diagnosis of malaria
infection in NHPs facilitates the appropriate treatment of individuals infected
with the malaria parasites. Conventional microscopy based on the examination of
Giemsa-stained thick and thin blood films remains the mainstay of laboratory
diagnosis of malaria infection because of the high diagnostic sensitivity and
specificity and also the capability for Plasmodium species identification and
parasite counts. This procedure is recognized as technically difficult and
time-consuming, requiring considerable training to obtain the necessary skills.
In the past few years, efforts to replace the traditional but tedious reading of 
blood films have led to different techniques for the detection of malaria
parasites, including fluorescence microscopy, detection of intraleukocytic
hemozoin or malaria pigment using automated blood cell analyzers,
immunochromatographic rapid diagnostic tests based on malaria antigen detection, 
and PCR assays. These techniques offer new approaches for diagnosing malaria in
NHPs. This review focuses on the available laboratory diagnostic tools for
malaria in NHPs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1939-165X.2010.00217.x 
PMID: 20456124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

