

2010. J Neurochem. 2010 Jul;114(2):499-511. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2010.06776.x. Epub
2010 Apr 28.

Calcium-permeable AMPA receptors are involved in the induction and expression of 
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

Kobylecki C(1), Cenci MA, Crossman AR, Ravenscroft P.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
christopher.kobylecki@manchester.ac.uk

Overactivity of striatal alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid
(AMPA) glutamate receptors is implicated in the pathophysiology of L-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we evaluated the
behavioural and molecular effects of acute and chronic blockade of
Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors in animal models of PD and LID. The acute effects
of the Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptor antagonist
1-trimethylammonio-5-(1-adamantane-methylammoniopentane) dibromide hydrobromide
(IEM 1460) on abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA)-lesioned rat and LID in the MPTP-lesioned non-human primate were
assessed. Subsequently, the effects of chronic treatment of 6-OHDA-lesioned rats 
with vehicle, L-DOPA/benserazide (6/15 mg/kg, i.p.) + vehicle or L-DOPA + IEM
1460 (3 mg/kg, i.p.) on behavioural and molecular correlates of priming for LID
were evaluated. In the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat and MPTP-lesioned non-human primate,
acute treatment with IEM 1460 (1-3 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced LID without
adverse effects on motor performance. Chronic co-treatment for 21 days with IEM
1460 reduced the induction of AIMs by L-DOPA in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat without
affecting peak rotarod performance, and attenuated AIMs score by 75% following
l-DOPA challenge (p < 0.05). Chronic IEM 1460 treatment reversed L-DOPA-induced
up-regulation of pre-proenkephalin-A, and normalised pre-proenkephalin-B mRNA
expression in the lateral striatum, indicating an inhibition of both behavioural 
and molecular correlates of priming. These data suggest that Ca(2+)-permeable
AMPA receptors are critically involved in both the induction and subsequent
expression of LID, and represent a potential target for anti-dyskinetic
therapies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-4159.2010.06776.x 
PMID: 20456008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

