

2012. PLoS One. 2010 Apr 29;5(4):e10412. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010412.

A novel highly reproducible and lethal nonhuman primate model for orthopox virus 
infection.

Kramski M(1), MÃ¤tz-Rensing K, Stahl-Hennig C, Kaup FJ, Nitsche A, Pauli G,
Ellerbrok H.

Author information: 
(1)Robert Koch-Institut, Berlin, Germany.

The intentional re-introduction of Variola virus (VARV), the agent of smallpox,
into the human population is of great concern due its bio-terroristic potential. 
Moreover, zoonotic infections with Cowpox (CPXV) and Monkeypox virus (MPXV) cause
severe diseases in humans. Smallpox vaccines presently available can have severe 
adverse effects that are no longer acceptable. The efficacy and safety of new
vaccines and antiviral drugs for use in humans can only be demonstrated in animal
models. The existing nonhuman primate models, using VARV and MPXV, need very high
viral doses that have to be applied intravenously or intratracheally to induce a 
lethal infection in macaques. To overcome these drawbacks, the infectivity and
pathogenicity of a particular CPXV was evaluated in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).A CPXV named calpox virus was isolated from a lethal
orthopox virus (OPV) outbreak in New World monkeys. We demonstrated that
marmosets infected with calpox virus, not only via the intravenous but also the
intranasal route, reproducibly develop symptoms resembling smallpox in humans.
Infected animals died within 1-3 days after onset of symptoms, even when very low
infectious viral doses of 5x10(2) pfu were applied intranasally. Infectious virus
was demonstrated in blood, saliva and all organs analyzed.We present the first
characterization of a new OPV infection model inducing a disease in common
marmosets comparable to smallpox in humans. Intranasal virus inoculation
mimicking the natural route of smallpox infection led to reproducible infection. 
In vivo titration resulted in an MID(50) (minimal monkey infectious dose 50%) of 
8.3x10(2) pfu of calpox virus which is approximately 10,000-fold lower than MPXV 
and VARV doses applied in the macaque models. Therefore, the calpox
virus/marmoset model is a suitable nonhuman primate model for the validation of
vaccines and antiviral drugs. Furthermore, this model can help study mechanisms
of OPV pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0010412 
PMCID: PMC2861679
PMID: 20454688  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

