

2013. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2010 Apr;69(4):372-85. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e3181d5d053.

Induction of progressive demyelinating autoimmune encephalomyelitis in common
marmoset monkeys using MOG34-56 peptide in incomplete freund adjuvant.

Jagessar SA(1), Kap YS, Heijmans N, van Driel N, van Straalen L, Bajramovic JJ,
Brok HP, Blezer EL, Bauer J, Laman JD, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the neotropical primate common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a relevant autoimmune animal model of multiple
sclerosis. T cells specific for peptide 34 to 56 of myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG34-56) have a central pathogenic role in this model. The aim of 
this study was to assess the requirement for innate immune stimulation for
activation of this core pathogenic autoimmune mechanism. Marmoset monkeys were
sensitized against synthetic MOG34-56 peptide alone or in combination with the
nonencephalitogenic peptide MOG74-96 formulated in incomplete Freund adjuvant,
which lacks microbial components. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
development was recorded by monitoring neurological signs, brain magnetic
resonance imaging, and longitudinal profiling of cellular and humoral immune
parameters. All monkeys developed autoimmune inflammatory/demyelinating central
nervous system disease characterized by massive brain and spinal cord
demyelinating white matter lesions with activated macrophages and CD3+ T cells.
Immune profiling ex vivo demonstrated the activation of mainly CD3+CD4+/8+CD56+ T
cells against MOG34-56. Upon ex vivo stimulation, these T cells produced more
interleukin 17A compared with TH1 cytokines (e.g. interferon-gamma) and displayed
peptide-specific cytolytic activity. These results indicate that the full
spectrum of marmoset experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis can be induced by 
sensitization against a single MOG peptide in incomplete Freund adjuvant lacking 
microbial compounds for innate immune activation and by eliciting
antigen-specific T-cell cytolytic activity.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e3181d5d053 
PMID: 20448482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

