

2014. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2010 Aug;20(8):582-93. doi:
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2010.03.001.

An in vivo pharmacological evaluation of pardoprunox (SLV308)--a novel combined
dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor partial agonist and 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist with
efficacy in experimental models of Parkinson's disease.

Jones CA(1), Johnston LC, Jackson MJ, Smith LA, van Scharrenburg G, Rose S,
Jenner PG, McCreary AC.

Author information: 
(1)Abbott Pharmaceuticals B.V., Weesp, The Netherlands (formerly Solvay
Pharmaceuticals B.V.).

Partial D(2/3) dopamine (DA) receptor agonists provide a novel approach to the
treatment of the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) that may avoid common
dopaminergic side-effects, including dyskinesia and psychosis. The present study 
focussed on the in vivo pharmacological and therapeutic characterisation of the
novel D(2/3) receptor partial agonist and full 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist
pardoprunox (SLV308; 7-[4-methyl-1-piperazinyl]-2(3H)-benzoxazolone
monochloride). Pardoprunox induced contralateral turning behaviour in rats with
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the substantia nigra pars
compacta (SNpc) (MED=0.03mg/kg; po). In
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets,
pardoprunox dose-dependently increased locomotor activity (MED=0.03mg/kg; po) and
decreased motor disability (MED=0.03mg/kg; po). The effects of pardoprunox were
reversed by the D(2) antagonist sulpiride. In contrast pardoprunox attenuated
novelty-induced locomotor activity (MED=0.01mg/kg; po), (+)-amphetamine-induced
hyperlocomotion (MED=0.3mg/kg; po) and apomorphine-induced climbing
(MED=0.6mg/kg; po) in rodents. Pardoprunox also induced 5-HT(1A)
receptor-mediated behaviours, including flat body posture and lower lip
retraction (MED=0.3mg/kg; po) and these were reversed by the 5-HT(1A) receptor
antagonist WAY100635. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pardoprunox
possesses dopamine D2/3 partial agonist effects, 5-HT1A agonist effects and
reduces parkinsonism in animal models. functional DA D(2) receptor partial
agonist activity and is effective in experimental models predictive of efficacy
in PD. The presence of functional 5-HT(1A) agonist activity might confer
anti-dyskinetic activity and have effects that control neuropsychiatric
components of PD.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2010.03.001 
PMID: 20434890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

