

2015. Reproduction. 2010 Jul;140(1):93-104. doi: 10.1530/REP-10-0140. Epub 2010 Apr 20.

Identification of androgen receptor phosphorylation in the primate ovary in vivo.

McEwan IJ(1), McGuinness D, Hay CW, Millar RP, Saunders PT, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Queen's Medical Research Institute, 47
Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, Scotland, UK. iain.mcewan@abdn.ac.uk

The androgen receptor (AR) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, and
is important for both male and female reproductive health. The receptor is a
target for a number of post-translational modifications including
phosphorylation, which has been intensively studied in vitro. However, little is 
known about the phosphorylation status of the receptor in target tissues in vivo.
The common marmoset is a useful model for studying human reproductive functions, 
and comparison of the AR primary sequence from this primate shows high
conservation of serines known to be phosphorylated in the human receptor and
corresponding flanking amino acids. We have used a panel of phosphospecific
antibodies to study AR phosphorylation in the marmoset ovary throughout the
follicular phase and after treatment with GNRH antagonist or testosterone
propionate. In normal follicular phase ovaries, total AR (both phosphorylated and
non-phosphorylated forms) immunopositive staining was observed in several cell
types including granulosa cells of developing follicles, theca cells and
endothelial cells lining blood vessels. Receptor phosphorylation at serines 81,
308, and 650 was detected primarily in the granulosa cells of developing
follicles, surface epithelium, and vessel endothelial cells. Testosterone
treatment lead to a modest increase in AR staining in all stages of follicle
studied, while GNRH antagonist had no effect. Neither treatment significantly
altered the pattern of phosphorylation compared to the control group. These
results demonstrate that phosphorylation of the AR occurs, at a subset of serine 
residues, in a reproductive target tissue in vivo, which appears refractory to
hormonal manipulations.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-10-0140 
PMCID: PMC2892820
PMID: 20406952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

