

2016. Immunogenetics. 2010 Jun;62(6):383-95. doi: 10.1007/s00251-010-0445-0. Epub 2010 
Apr 20.

Comprehensive analysis and characterization of the TCR alpha chain sequences in
the common marmoset.

Fujii Y(1), Matsutani T, Kitaura K, Suzuki S, Itoh T, Takasaki T, Suzuki R,
Kurane I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, 18-1 Sakuradai, Sagamihara, Kanagawa, 228-0815, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is useful as a nonhuman primate model of
human diseases. Although the marmoset model has great potential for studying
autoimmune diseases and immune responses against pathogens, little information is
available regarding the genes involved in adaptive immunity. Here, we identified 
one TCR alpha constant (TRAC), 46 TRAJ (joining), and 35 TRAV (variable) segments
from marmoset cDNA. Marmoset TRAC, TRAJ, and TRAV shared 80%, 68-100%, and 79-98%
identity with their human counterparts at the amino acid level, respectively. The
amino acid sequences were less conserved in TRAC than in TCRbeta chain constant
(TRBC). Comparative analysis of TRAV between marmosets and humans showed that the
rates of synonymous substitutions per site (d(S)) were not significantly
different between the framework regions (FRs) and complementarity determining
regions (CDRs), whereas the rates of nonsynonymous substitutions per site (d(N)) 
were significantly lower in the FRs than in CDRs. Interestingly, the d(N) values 
of the CDRs were greater for TRBV than TRAV. These results suggested that after
the divergence of Catarrhini from Platyrrhini, amino acid substitutions were
decreased in the FRs by purifying selection and occurred more frequently in
CDRbeta than in CDRalpha by positive selection, probably depending on structural 
and functional constraints. This study provides not only useful information
facilitating the investigation of adaptive immunity using the marmoset model but 
also new insight into the molecular evolution of the TCR heterodimer in primate
species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-010-0445-0 
PMID: 20405119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

