

2018. J Immunol. 2010 May 15;184(10):5895-902. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.0902850. Epub 2010
Apr 12.

Virus-specific cytotoxic CD4+ T cells for the treatment of EBV-related tumors.

Merlo A(1), Turrini R, Bobisse S, Zamarchi R, Alaggio R, Dolcetti R, Mautner J,
Zanovello P, Amadori A, Rosato A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology and Surgical Sciences, University of Padova, Italy.

Although adoptive immunotherapy with CD8(+) CTL is providing clinically relevant 
results against EBV-driven malignancies, the effector role of CD4(+) T cells has 
been poorly investigated. We addressed this issue in a lymphoblastoid cell
line-induced mouse model of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) by 
comparing the therapeutic efficacy of EBV-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cell lines
upon adoptive transfer. CD4(+) T cells disclosed a long-lasting and stronger
proliferative potential than CD8(+) T cells, had a similar activation and
differentiation marker profile, efficiently killed their targets in a MHC class
II-restricted manner, and displayed a lytic machinery comparable to that of
cognate CD8(+) T cells. A detailed analysis of Ag specificity revealed that
CD4(+) T cells potentially target EBV early lytic cycle proteins. Nonetheless,
when assessed for the relative therapeutic impact after in vivo transfer, CD4(+) 
T cells showed a reduced activity compared with the CD8(+) CTL counterpart. This 
feature was apparently due to a strong and selective downmodulation of MHC class 
II expression on the tumor cells surface, a phenomenon that could be reverted by 
the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, thus leading to restoration of
lymphoblastoid cell line recognition and killing by CD4(+) T cells, as well as to
a more pronounced therapeutic activity. Conversely, immunohistochemical analysis 
disclosed that HLA-II expression is fully retained in human PTLD samples. Our
data indicate that EBV-specific cytotoxic CD4(+) T cells are therapeutic in mice 
bearing PTLD-like tumors, even in the absence of CD8(+) T cells. These findings
pave the way to use cultures of pure CD4(+) T cells in immunotherapeutic
approaches for EBV-related malignancies.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.0902850 
PMID: 20385879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

