

2021. Eur J Neurosci. 2010 Mar;31(6):1043-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2010.07118.x.
Epub 2010 Mar 3.

Spatial and temporal frequency tuning in striate cortex: functional uniformity
and specializations related to receptive field eccentricity.

Yu HH(1), Verma R, Yang Y, Tibballs HA, Lui LL, Reser DH, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton VIC 3800, Australia.
Hsin-Hao.Yu@med.monash.edu.au

In light of anatomical evidence suggesting differential connection patterns in
central vs. peripheral representations of cortical areas, we investigated the
extent to which the response properties of cells in the primary visual area (V1) 
of the marmoset change as a function of eccentricity. Responses to combinations
of the spatial and temporal frequencies of visual stimuli were quantified for
neurons with receptive fields ranging from 3 degrees to 70 degrees eccentricity. 
Optimal spatial frequencies and stimulus speeds reflected the expectation that
the responses of cells throughout V1 are essentially uniform, once scaled
according to the cortical magnification factor. In addition, temporal frequency
tuning was similar throughout V1. However, spatial frequency tuning curves
depended both on the cell's optimal spatial frequency and on the receptive field 
eccentricity: cells with peripheral receptive fields showed narrower bandwidths
than cells with central receptive fields that were sensitive to the same optimal 
spatial frequency. Although most V1 cells had separable spatial and temporal
frequency tuning, the proportion of neurons displaying significant spatiotemporal
interactions increased in the representation of far peripheral vision (> 50
degrees). In addition, of the fewer than 5% of V1 cells that showed robust
(spatial frequency independent) selectivity to stimulus speed, most were
concentrated in the representation of the far periphery. Spatiotemporal
interactions in the responses of many cells in the peripheral representation of
V1 reduced the ambiguity of responses to high-speed (> 30 degrees/s) signals.
These results support the notion of a relative specialization for motion
processing in the far peripheral representations of cortical areas, including V1.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2010.07118.x 
PMID: 20377618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

