

2023. Stem Cell Res. 2010 May;4(3):180-8. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2010.02.003. Epub 2010 Mar
6.

Generation of induced pluripotent stem cells from newborn marmoset skin
fibroblasts.

Wu Y(1), Zhang Y, Mishra A, Tardif SD, Hornsby PJ.

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, Shaanxi
712100, China. WuY4@uthscsa.edu

Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) hold great promise for regenerative
medicine. For the application of iPSCs to forms of autologous cell therapy,
suitable animal models are required. Among species that could potentially be used
for this purpose, nonhuman primates are particularly important, and among these
the marmoset offers significant advantages. In order to demonstrate the
feasibility of the application of iPSC technology to this species, here we
derived lines of marmoset iPSCs. Using retroviral transduction with human Oct4,
Sox2, Klf4 and c-Myc, we derived clones that fulfil critical criteria for
successful reprogramming: they exhibit typical iPSC morphology; they are alkaline
phosphatase positive; they express high levels of NANOG, OCT4 and SOX2 mRNAs,
while the corresponding vector genes are silenced; they are immunoreactive for
Oct4, TRA-1-81 and SSEA-4; and when implanted into immunodeficient mice they
produce teratomas that have derivatives of all three germ layers (endoderm,
alpha-fetoprotein; ectoderm, betaIII-tubulin; mesoderm, smooth muscle actin).
Starting with a population of 4 x 10(5) newborn marmoset skin fibroblasts, we
obtained approximately 100 colonies with iPSC-like morphology. Of these, 30 were 
expanded sufficiently to be cryopreserved, and, of those, 8 were characterized in
more detail. These experiments provide proof of principle that iPSC technology
can be adapted for use in the marmoset, as a future model of autologous cell
therapy.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2010.02.003 
PMCID: PMC2875323
PMID: 20363201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

