

2024. Curr Drug Metab. 2010 Feb;11(2):142-52.

Macaque CYP2C76 encodes cytochrome P450 enzyme not orthologous to any human
isozymes.

Uno Y(1), Fujino H, Iwasaki K, Utoh M.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacokinetics and Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, 
Ltd., Kainan, Japan. uno-yasuhiro@snbl.co.jp

Cynomolgus monkey is used in the study of drug metabolism and toxicity due to its
evolutionary closeness to human as compared with other non-human primate species.
However, it has become certain that drug metabolism in monkeys is different than 
in humans. Such species differences have not been fully investigated at a
molecular level largely due to the scarcity of information on drug-metabolizing
enzyme genes. In cynomolgus monkey, we have identified cDNAs for 21 kinds of
cytochromes P450 (CYPs), among which CYP2C76 does not correspond to any human CYP
isozymes and is partly responsible for the difference in pitavastatin metabolism 
between cynomolgus monkey and human. In cynomolgus monkey CYP2C76, we identified 
numerous genetic variants including a null genotype. Heterozygotes for this null 
genotype are expected to be poor metabolizers in CYP2C76-mediated drug
metabolism. To provide new clues to CYP2C76 function, here, we have taken
advantage of sequence information that has been recently deposited to public
databases to assess the presence of CYP2C76 orthologs in primate species. In this
assessment, we found the CYP2C76 cDNA sequence in rhesus monkey, and a gene
sequence highly homologous to cynomolgus monkey CYP2C76 in the marmoset and
orangutan genomes, raising the possibility that CYP2C76 could also play a role in
these primate species. This review paper gives an overview of CYP2C76 from
isolation to molecular characterization, and its implication in drug metabolism.

DOI: 10.2174/138920010791110854 
PMID: 20359284  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

