

2025. Synapse. 2010 Aug;64(8):594-601. doi: 10.1002/syn.20766.

Mapping of serotonin transporters by positron emission tomography with [11C]DASB 
in conscious common marmosets: comparison with rhesus monkeys.

Yokoyama C(1), Yamanaka H, Onoe K, Kawasaki A, Nagata H, Shirakami K, Doi H, Onoe
H.

Author information: 
(1)Functional Probe Research Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Molecular Imaging
Science 6-7-3 Minatojima Minamimachi, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is unique among the primates in its
small body size, reproductive efficacy, and characteristic social behavior,
making it useful as an animal model in neuroscientific research. To assess the
brain serotonergic systems, we investigated the binding of
[(11)C]-3-amino-4-(2-dimetylaminomethyl-phenylsulfanyl)-benzonitrile
([(11)C]DASB) to brain serotonin transporter (SERT) in conscious common marmosets
using positron emission tomography (PET), and compared with findings for rhesus
monkeys. Both species showed globally similar distribution patterns of
[(11)C]DASB uptake in the brain, with highest activity in the midline of the
brain and lowest in the cerebellum, and higher activity in some subcortical
regions than in surrounding cortex, while the common marmoset brain showed almost
equal or rather higher binding potential (BP) values (BP(ND)) in cortical regions
and hippocampus, and lower BP(ND) than the rhesus monkey brain in some
subcortical regions. Test-retest reproducibility of BP(ND) at an interval of
several months was high, indicating reliable and stable measurements of serotonin
transporters in both species. These results suggest that SERT imaging by PET with
[(11)C]DASB under conscious state is valuable for investigating the physiological
serotonergic functions in common marmosets (182).

DOI: 10.1002/syn.20766 
PMID: 20340166  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

