

203. Anim Cogn. 2021 May;24(3):629-643. doi: 10.1007/s10071-020-01465-1. Epub 2021 Jan
4.

Navigating in a challenging semiarid environment: the use of a route-based mental
map by a small-bodied neotropical primate.

Abreu F(1), Garber PA(2), Souto A(3), Presotto A(4), Schiel N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Dois Irmãos, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil.
filipaabreu88@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Anthropology, Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation
Biology, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, 61801, USA.
(3)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Av. Professor Moraes 
Rego, 1235, Recife, PE, 50670-901, Brazil.
(4)Department of Geography and Geosciences, Salisbury University, Salisbury, USA.
(5)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Dois Irmãos, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil.

To increase efficiency in the search for resources, many animals rely on their
spatial abilities. Specifically, primates have been reported to use mostly
topological and rarely Euclidean maps when navigating in large-scale space. Here,
we aimed to investigate if the navigation of wild common marmosets inhabiting a
semiarid environment is consistent with a topological representation and how
environmental factors affect navigation. We collected 497 h of direct behavioral 
and GPS information on a group of marmosets using a 2-min instantaneous focal
animal sampling technique. We found that our study group reused not only
long-route segments (mean of 1007 m) but entire daily routes, a pattern that is
not commonly seen in primates. The most frequently reused route segments were the
ones closer to feeding sites, distant to resting sites, and in areas sparse in
tree vegetation. We also identified a total of 56 clustered direction change
points indicating that the group modified their direction of travel. These
changes in direction were influenced by their close proximity to resting and
feeding sites. Despite our small sample size, the obtained results are important 
and consistent with the contention that common marmosets navigate using a
topological map that seems to benefit these animals in response to the
exploitation of clustered exudate trees. Based on our findings, we hypothesize
that the Caatinga landscape imposes physical restrictions in our group's
navigation such as gaps in vegetation, small trees and xerophytic plants. This
study, based on preliminary evidence, raises the question of whether navigation
patterns are an intrinsic characteristic of a species or are ecologically
dependent and change according to the environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-020-01465-1 
PMID: 33394185  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

