

2034. J Comp Neurol. 2010 May 15;518(10):1764-91. doi: 10.1002/cne.22301.

Organization of the marmoset cerebellum in three-dimensional space: lobulation,
aldolase C compartmentalization and axonal projection.

Fujita H(1), Oh-Nishi A, Obayashi S, Sugihara I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems Neurophysiology, Graduate School of Medicine, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8519, Japan.

The cerebellar cortex is organized by transverse foliation and longitudinal
compartmentalization. Although the latter, which is recognized through the
molecular expression in subsets of Purkinje cells (PCs), is closely related to
topographic axonal projection and represents functional divisions, the details
have not been fully clarified in mammals other than rodents. Therefore, we
examined folial and compartmental organization of the marmoset cerebellum, which 
resembles the macaque cerebellum, and compared it with that of the rodent
cerebellum by aldolase C immunostaining, three-dimensional reconstruction of the 
PC layer, and labeling of olivocerebellar and corticonuclear projections.
Longitudinal stripes of different aldolase C expression intensities separated the
entire cerebellar cortex into multiple compartments. Lobule VIIAb-d was
equivalent to rodent lobule VIc in that it contained a transverse gap in the
cortical layers and served as the rostrocaudal boundary for compartments and
axonal branching. Olivocortical and corticonuclear projection patterns in major
compartments indicated that the compartmental organization in the marmoset
cerebellum was generally equivalent to that in the rodent cerebellum, although
two compartments were missing in the pars intermedia and several compartments
that have not been seen in rodents were recognized in the flocculus, nodulus, and
the most lateral hemisphere. Reconstruction showed that the paraflocculus and
flocculus were formed by a single longitudinal sheet, the axis of which was
parallel to the aldolase C compartments, PC dendrites, and olivocerebellar
climbing fiber distribution. The results indicate that molecular
compartmentalization in the marmoset cerebellum reflected both the common
fundamental organization of the mammalian cerebellum and species-dependent
differentiation.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22301 
PMID: 20235174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

