

2035. Cell Mol Neurobiol. 2010 Aug;30(6):827-39. doi: 10.1007/s10571-010-9510-3. Epub
2010 Mar 16.

Neuronal MHC class I molecules are involved in excitatory synaptic transmission
at the hippocampal mossy fiber synapses of marmoset monkeys.

Ribic A(1), Zhang M, Schlumbohm C, Mätz-Rensing K, Uchanska-Ziegler B, Flügge G, 
Zhang W, Walter L, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center, Leibniz Institute for
Primate Research, Kellnerweg 4, 37077, Göttingen, Germany. aribic@cnl-dpz.de

Several recent studies suggested a role for neuronal major histocompatibility
complex class I (MHCI) molecules in certain forms of synaptic plasticity in the
hippocampus of rodents. Here, we report for the first time on the expression
pattern and functional properties of MHCI molecules in the hippocampus of a
nonhuman primate, the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). We detected a 
presynaptic, mossy fiber-specific localization of MHCI proteins within the
marmoset hippocampus. MHCI molecules were present in the large, VGlut1-positive, 
mossy fiber terminals, which provide input to CA3 pyramidal neurons. Furthermore,
whole-cell recordings of CA3 pyramidal neurons in acute hippocampal slices of the
common marmoset demonstrated that application of antibodies which specifically
block MHCI proteins caused a significant decrease in the frequency, and a
transient increase in the amplitude, of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic
currents (sEPSCs) in CA3 pyramidal neurons. These findings add to previous
studies on neuronal MHCI molecules by describing their expression and
localization in the primate hippocampus and by implicating them in
plasticity-related processes at the mossy fiber-CA3 synapses. In addition, our
results suggest significant interspecies differences in the localization of
neuronal MHCI molecules in the hippocampus of mice and marmosets, as well as in
their potential function in these species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10571-010-9510-3 
PMCID: PMC2912721
PMID: 20232136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

