

2037. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2010 Jul;142(3):468-75. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.21259.

Mycophagy and its influence on habitat use and ranging patterns in Callimico
goeldii.

Porter LM(1), Garber PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL 60155,
USA. lmporter@niu.edu

Mycophagy has been documented in a number of species of marmosets and lion
tamarins (Callitrichinae) but its effect on ranging behavior is not known. We
present the results of 10 years of research on five groups of Goeldi's monkey
(Callimico goeldii) at a field site in northwestern Bolivia. We studied the diet 
and ranging behavior of two of the groups. On average, groups contained 4.5
individuals (range 2.0-9.0), but they gradually decreased in size until only the 
breeding female remained in the home range. The annual diet was composed of fungi
(31.1-34.9%), fruits (34.0-40.6%), prey (17.4-30.1%), and exudates (1.0-10.9%).
They had large home ranges (114-150 ha) and over time individuals tended to shift
their core areas of use. They used secondary and bamboo forest and forest with
dense understories more than expected based on availability. We suggest that the 
large home ranges and shifting core areas used by C. goeldii are components of a 
foraging strategy to track patchy, low density, and ephemeral fungal fruiting
bodies. Our results, along with data published on other callitrichines, indicate 
that groups of Leontopithecus, Callithrix, and Callimico that eat fungi have
larger home ranges than those that do not. Mycophagy is one of the several
factors that evidently affect home range size in callitrichines. Fungi are
clearly an important food source for a number of populations, but additional
studies are needed to determine why some eat fungi frequently while others do
not.

(c) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.21259 
PMID: 20209492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

