

2038. Mult Scler. 2010 May;16(5):537-48. doi: 10.1177/1352458509360362. Epub 2010 Mar
1.

Focal and diffuse cortical degenerative changes in a marmoset model of multiple
sclerosis.

Pomeroy IM(1), Jordan EK, Frank JA, Matthews PM, Esiri MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
ian.pomeroy@nhs.net

BACKGROUND: Degenerative features, such as neuronal, glial, synaptic and axonal
loss, have been identified in neocortical and other grey matter structures in
patients with multiple sclerosis, but mechanisms for neurodegeneration are
unclear. Cortical demyelinating lesions are a potential cause of this
degeneration, but the pathological and clinical significance of these lesions is 
uncertain as they remain difficult to identify and study in vivo. In this study
we aimed to describe and quantify cellular and subcellular pathology in the
cortex of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced marmoset experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis using quantitative immunohistochemical methods.
RESULTS: We found evidence of diffuse axonal damage occurring throughout cortical
grey matter with evidence for synaptic loss and gliosis and a 13.6% decrease in
neuronal size and occurring in deep cortical layers. Evidence of additional
axonal damage and a 29.6-36.5% loss of oligodendrocytes was found in demyelinated
cortical lesions. Leucocortical lesions also showed neuronal loss of 22.2% and a 
15.8% increase in oligodendrocyte size.
CONCLUSIONS: The marmoset experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model,
therefore, shows both focal and generalized neurodegeneration. The generalized
changes cannot be directly related to focal lesions, suggesting that they are
either a consequence of diffusible inflammatory factors or secondary to remote
lesions acting through trans-synaptic or retrograde degeneration.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458509360362 
PMCID: PMC2874633
PMID: 20194580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

