

2041. Front Neuroanat. 2010 Feb 12;4:8. doi: 10.3389/neuro.05.008.2010. eCollection
2010.

Retinal afferents synapse with relay cells targeting the middle temporal area in 
the pulvinar and lateral geniculate nuclei.

Warner CE(1), Goldshmit Y, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Bourne Group, Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University
Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Considerable debate continues regarding thalamic inputs to the middle temporal
area (MT) of the visual cortex that bypass the primary visual cortex (V1) and the
role they might have in the residual visual capability following a lesion of V1. 
Two specific retinothalamic projections to area MT have been speculated to relay 
through the medial portion of the inferior pulvinar nucleus (PIm) and the
koniocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). Although a
number of studies have demonstrated retinal inputs to regions of the thalamus
where relays to area MT have been observed, the relationship between the retinal 
terminals and area MT relay cells has not been established. Here we examined
direct retino-recipient regions of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
pulvinar nucleus and the LGN following binocular injections of anterograde
tracer, as well as area MT relay cells in these nuclei by injection of retrograde
tracer into area MT. Retinal afferents were shown to synapse with area MT relay
cells as demonstrated by colocalization with the presynaptic vesicle membrane
protein synaptophysin. We also established the presence of direct synapes of
retinal afferents on area MT relay cells within the PIm, as well as the
koniocellular K1 and K3 layers of the LGN, thereby corroborating the existence of
two disynaptic pathways from the retina to area MT that bypass V1.

DOI: 10.3389/neuro.05.008.2010 
PMCID: PMC2826187
PMID: 20179789 

