

2042. J Neurosci Methods. 2010 May 15;188(2):219-25. doi:
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2010.02.011. Epub 2010 Feb 17.

Performance of juvenile baboons on neuropsychological tests assessing associative
learning, motivation and attention.

ZÃ¼rcher NR(1), Rodriguez JS, Jenkins SL, Keenan K, Bartlett TQ, McDonald TJ,
Nathanielsz PW, Nijland MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Center for Pregnancy and Newborn
Research, The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San
Antonio, TX 78229, USA. rodriguezj13@uthscsa.edu

The CANTAB (Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery), a system
developed for human neuropsychological testing, has previously been used to
assess cognitive function in two species of nonhuman primates, common marmoset
monkeys and rhesus macaques. We describe the application of the system to the
juvenile baboon, a nonhuman primate species offering specific investigative
advantages. Juvenile baboons were trained and tested on a progressive ratio task 
to assess motivation, simple discrimination and simple reversal tasks to assess
associative learning, and intra- and extra-dimensional set-shifting tasks to
assess selective attention and attentional set-shifting, respectively. Study
subjects were 8 juvenile baboons (Papio sp.), 4 females and 4 males aged
3.0+/-0.1 (mean+SEM) years and weight 8.2+/-0.4 kg. All baboons were easily
trained, readily learned the neuropsychological tests and exhibited a stable
performance. Applying a method such as the CANTAB has significant implications
for expanding on the translational utility of the baboon in studies of
neurodevelopment.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2010.02.011 
PMCID: PMC3409834
PMID: 20170676  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

