

2049. J Neurophysiol. 2010 Apr;103(4):1809-22. doi: 10.1152/jn.00281.2009. Epub 2010
Feb 10.

Neural coding of periodicity in marmoset auditory cortex.

Bendor D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Picower Institute for Learning and Memory, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Bldg. 46, Rm. 5233, 43 Vassar
St., Cambridge, MA, USA. dbendor@mit.edu

Comment in
    J Neurophysiol. 2010 Apr;103(4):1708-11.

Pitch, our perception of how high or low a sound is on a musical scale, crucially
depends on a sound's periodicity. If an acoustic signal is temporally jittered so
that it becomes aperiodic, the pitch will no longer be perceivable even though
other acoustical features that normally covary with pitch are unchanged. Previous
electrophysiological studies investigating pitch have typically used only
periodic acoustic stimuli, and as such these studies cannot distinguish between a
neural representation of pitch and an acoustical feature that only correlates
with pitch. In this report, we examine in the auditory cortex of awake marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) the neural coding of a periodicity's repetition
rate, an acoustic feature that covaries with pitch. We first examine if
individual neurons show similar repetition rate tuning for different periodic
acoustic signals. We next measure how sensitive these neural representations are 
to the temporal regularity of the acoustic signal. We find that neurons
throughout auditory cortex covary their firing rate with the repetition rate of
an acoustic signal. However, similar repetition rate tuning across acoustic
stimuli and sensitivity to temporal regularity were generally only observed in a 
small group of neurons found near the anterolateral border of primary auditory
cortex, the location of a previously identified putative pitch processing center.
These results suggest that although the encoding of repetition rate is a general 
component of auditory cortical processing, the neural correlate of periodicity is
confined to a special class of pitch-selective neurons within the putative pitch 
processing center of auditory cortex.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00281.2009 
PMCID: PMC2853289
PMID: 20147419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

