

2054. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2009 Dec;15 Suppl 4:S18-23. doi:
10.1016/S1353-8020(09)70829-6.

From the MPTP-treated primate to the treatment of motor complications in
Parkinson's disease.

Jenner P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College London, London, UK. peter.jenner@kcl.ac.uk

The MPTP-treated primate has proved to be a highly predictive model of the
effects of dopaminergic drugs in the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease
(PD) and for the avoidance of motor complications. Using MPTP-treated primates,
new dopaminergic therapies have been devised alongside novel treatment strategies
and novel routes of administration while providing knowledge on how to use
dopaminergic drugs in a manner that avoids the onset of motor complications. The 
use of MPTP-treated primates led to the concept of continuous dopaminergic
stimulation (CDS) and the early introduction of dopamine receptor agonists as
monotherapy for PD for the prevention of dyskinesia. However, CDS does not
explain the differences in dyskinesia induction that exist between L-dopa and
dopamine receptor agonists, and a more rationale approach to therapy involves
continuous drug delivery (CDD). CDD has been explored in the MPTP-treated primate
and this review focuses on some of the evidence showing that the delivery of
dopaminergic drugs in PD is key to the avoidance of dyskinesia while maintaining 
therapeutic efficacy. Other types of motor complication, such as "wearing off"
and "on-off" remain to be explored in MPTP-treated primates and the model has yet
to be used to examine non-motor components of PD. Despite having been employed
for almost 25 years, the MPTP-treated primate has many potential uses in the
future that will further improve the treatment of PD.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1353-8020(09)70829-6 
PMID: 20123550  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

