

2058. J Pharmacol Toxicol Methods. 2010 May-Jun;61(3):271-6. doi:
10.1016/j.vascn.2010.01.006. Epub 2010 Jan 25.

Sensitivity of common marmosets to detect drug-induced QT interval prolongation: 
moxifloxacin case study.

Komatsu R(1), Honda M, Holzgrefe HH, Kubo J, Yamada Y, Isobe T, Kimura K, Itoh T,
Tamaoki N, Tabo M.

Author information: 
(1)Fuji Gotemba Laboratory, Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Shizuoka 412-8513,
Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Moxifloxacin is the most widely used positive reference agent in
clinical cardiac repolarization studies, but it has not been characterized in
common marmosets which are uniquely suited to studies in early-stage development 
due to their small size and minimal test article requirements. The purpose of
this study was to evaluate the sensitivity of the common marmoset to detect
moxifloxacin-associated QT interval prolongation.
METHODS: Eight telemetered common marmosets were monitored for 24 h following
oral administration of moxifloxacin by gavage at 0, 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg using a
Latin square design. Concurrently, a pharmacokinetic evaluation in 8
non-telemetered animals was conducted. A rate-corrected QT (QTc) interval was
derived using an individual probabilistic QT rate-correction. QTc
(placebo-adjusted QTc change from the individual baseline) was calculated and the
relationship between pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) was
analyzed.
RESULTS: A slight, but not significant, increase in QTc was detected with 10
mg/kg of moxifloxacin. Moxifloxacin at 30 and 100 mg/kg elicited dose-dependent
increases in QTc of 14.0+/-3.6 and 35.0+/-6.2 ms, respectively, with associated
total moxifloxacin C(max) values of 6.5+/-0.5 and 16.5+/-1.6 microg/mL,
respectively. From the PK/PD relationship, the plasma concentration which would
attain QTc of 5 to 10 ms was estimated to be 1.67-3.73 microg/mL. The results
were consistent with typical clinical trial results (QTc of 6.6-14.8 ms at
2.5-3.5 microg/mL).
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates that the common marmoset is highly
sensitive to moxifloxacin-associated changes in cardiac repolarization, assessed 
as QTc. As such, this species is suitable for precise and reliable detection of
small, but significant, drug-associated increases in QTc interval. Thus, the
common marmoset should be regarded as a validated animal model for the detection 
of QT risk in early-stage drug development and represents an important addition
to the current in vivo armamentarium.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vascn.2010.01.006 
PMID: 20097298  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

