

2063. Anim Cogn. 2010 May;13(3):555-64. doi: 10.1007/s10071-009-0306-0. Epub 2010 Jan
6.

Perception of biological motion in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): by
females only.

Brown J(1), Kaplan G, Rogers LJ, Vallortigara G.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Animal Behaviour, School of Science and
Technology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia.
julian.brown20@yahoo.com

The ability to perceive biological motion (BM) has been demonstrated in a number 
of species including humans but the few studies of non-human primates have been
relatively inconclusive. We investigated whether common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) are able to perceive biological motion, using a novel method to test
non-human primates. Marmosets (7 male and 7 female) were trained to remove a
cover from a container and look inside it, revealing a computer screen. Then they
were presented with images on this computer screen consisting of a novel BM
pattern (a walking hen) and 4 manipulations of that pattern (a static frame of
this pattern and inverted, scrambled, and rotating versions of the pattern). The 
behavioural responses of the marmosets were recorded and used to assess
discrimination between stimuli. BM was attended to by females but not males, as
shown by active inspection behaviour, mainly movement of the head towards the
stimulus. Females paid significantly less attention to all of the other stimuli. 
This indicates the females' ability to attend to biological motion. Females
showed slightly more attention to the inverted BM than to the static, scrambled, 
and rotating patterns. The males were less attentive to all of the stimuli than
were the females and, unlike the females, responded to all stimuli in a similar
manner. This sex difference could be due to an inability of males to recognise BM
altogether or to a lesser amount of curiosity. Considered together with the
findings of previous studies on chicks and humans, the results of the present
study support the notion of a common mechanism across species for the detection
of BM.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-009-0306-0 
PMID: 20052512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

