

2069. J Neurosci. 2009 Dec 9;29(49):15455-71. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1648-09.2009.

Four projection streams from primate V1 to the cytochrome oxidase stripes of V2.

Federer F(1), Ichida JM, Jeffs J, Schiessl I, McLoughlin N, Angelucci A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84132,
USA.

In the primate visual system, areas V1 and V2 distribute information they receive
from the retina to all higher cortical areas, sorting this information into
dorsal and ventral streams. Therefore, knowledge of the organization of
projections between V1 and V2 is crucial to understand how the cortex processes
visual information. In primates, parallel output pathways from V1 project to
distinct V2 stripes. The traditional tripartite division of V1-to-V2 projections 
was recently replaced by a bipartite scheme, in which thin stripes receive V1
inputs from blob columns, and thick and pale stripes receive common input from
interblob columns. Here, we demonstrate that thick and pale stripes, instead,
receive spatially segregated V1 inputs and that the interblob is partitioned into
two compartments: the middle of the interblob projecting to pale stripes and the 
blob/interblob border region projecting to thick stripes. Double-labeling
experiments further demonstrate that V1 cells project to either thick or pale
stripes, but rarely to both. We also find laminar specialization of V1 outputs,
with layer 4B contributing projections mainly to thick stripes, and no
projections to one set of pale stripes. These laminar differences suggest
different contribution of magno, parvo, and konio inputs to each V1 output
pathway. These results provide a new foundation for parallel processing models of
the visual system by demonstrating four V1-to-V2 pathways: blob columns-to-thin
stripes, blob/interblob border columns-to-thick stripes, interblob
columns-to-pale(lateral) stripes, layer 2/3-4A interblobs-to-pale(medial)
stripes.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1648-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC2909028
PMID: 20007470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

