

207. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2021 Mar 1;60(2):188-194. doi:
10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-20-000082. Epub 2020 Dec 29.

Pharmacokinetics of Buprenorphine and Sustained-release Buprenorphine in Common
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Fitz CB(1), Goodroe AE(2), Moody DE(3), Fang WB(3), Capuano SV III(4).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Services Unit, Wisconsin National Primate Research Center,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin;, Email:
cfitz@primate.wisc.edu.
(2)Veterinary Resources, Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio,
Texas.
(3)Center for Human Toxicology, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology,
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.
(4)Veterinary Services Unit, Wisconsin National Primate Research Center,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.

Buprenorphine is an essential component of analgesic protocols in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The use of buprenorphine HCl (BUP) and
sustained-release buprenorphine (BSR) formulations has become commonplace in this
species, but the pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated. Healthy adult (age,
2.4 to 6.8 y; 6 female and 6 male) common marmosets were enrolled in this study
to determine the pharmacokinetic parameters, plasma concentration-time curves,
and any apparent adverse effects of these compounds. Equal numbers of each sex
were randomly assigned to receive BUP (0.02 mg/kg IM) or BSR (0.2 mg/kg SC),
resulting in peak plasma concentrations (mean ± 1 SD) of 15.2 ± 8.1 and 2.8 ± 1.2
ng/mL, terminal phase t1/2 of 2.2 ± 1.0 and 32.6 ± 9.6 h, and AUC0-last of 16.1 ±
3.7 and 98.6 ± 42.7 ng × h/mL. The plasma concentrations of buprenorphine
exceeded the proposed minimal therapeutic threshold (0.1 ng/mL) at 5 and 15 min
after BUP and BSR administration, showing that both compounds are rapid-acting,
and remained above that threshold through the final time points of 8 and 72 h.
Extrapolation of the terminal elimination phase of the mean concentration-time
curves was used to develop the clinical dosing frequencies of 6 to 8 h for BUP
and 3.0 to 3.5 d for BSR. Some adverse effects were observed after the
administration of BUP to common marmosets in this study, thus mandating judicious
use in clinical practice. BSR provided a safe, long-acting option for analgesia
and therefore can be used to refine analgesic protocols in this species.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-20-000082 
PMCID: PMC7974810
PMID: 33375952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

