

2076. J Exp Biol. 2009 Dec;212(Pt 24):4040-55. doi: 10.1242/jeb.029983.

The morphology of the masticatory apparatus facilitates muscle force production
at wide jaw gapes in tree-gouging common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Eng CM(1), Ward SR, Vinyard CJ, Taylor AB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California, San Diego, CA
92121, USA. cmeng@fas.harvard.edu

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) generate wide jaw gapes when gouging trees 
with their anterior teeth to elicit tree exudate flow. Closely related cotton-top
tamarins (Saguinus oedipus) do not gouge trees but share similar diets including 
exudates. Maximizing jaw opening theoretically compromises the bite forces that
marmosets can generate during gouging. To investigate how jaw-muscle architecture
and craniofacial position impact muscle performance during gouging, we combine
skull and jaw-muscle architectural features to model muscle force production
across a range of jaw gapes in these two species. We incorporate joint mechanics,
resting sarcomere length and muscle architecture estimates from the masseter and 
temporalis to model muscle excursion, sarcomere length and relative tension as a 
function of joint angle. Muscle excursion from occlusion to an estimated maximum 
functional gape of 55 deg. was smaller in all regions of the masseter and
temporalis of C. jacchus compared with S. oedipus except the posterior
temporalis. As a consequence of reduced muscle excursion distributed over more
sarcomeres in series (i.e. longer fibers), sarcomere length operating ranges are 
smaller in C. jacchus jaw muscles across this range of gapes. This configuration 
allows C. jacchus to act on a more favorable portion of the length-tension curve 
at larger gapes and thereby generate relatively greater tension in these muscles 
compared with S. oedipus. Our results suggest that biting performance during tree
gouging in common marmosets is improved by a musculoskeletal configuration that
reduces muscle stretch at wide gapes while simultaneously facilitating
comparatively large muscle forces at the extremes of jaw opening.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.029983 
PMCID: PMC4075048
PMID: 19946083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

