

2079. Cereb Cortex. 2010 Jul;20(7):1668-75. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhp236. Epub 2009 Nov
10.

Opposing effects of 5,7-DHT infusions into the orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala 
on flexible responding.

Man MS(1), Dalley JW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK.

Central serotonin is implicated in a variety of emotional and behavioral control 
processes. Serotonin depletion can lead to exaggerated aversive processing and
deficient response inhibition, effects that have been linked to serotonin's
actions in the amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), respectively. However, a 
direct comparison of serotonin manipulations within the OFC and amygdala in the
same experimental context has not been undertaken. This study compared the
effects of infusing the serotonin neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the
OFC and amygdala of marmosets performing an appetitive test of response
inhibition. Marmosets had to learn to inhibit a prepotent response tendency to
choose a box containing high-incentive food and instead choose a box containing
low-incentive food, to obtain reward. OFC infusions caused long-lasting
reductions in serotonin tissue levels, as revealed at postmortem, and exaggerated
prepotent responses. In contrast, the significantly reduced prepotent responses
following amygdala infusions occurred at a time when serotonin tissue levels had 
undergone considerable recovery, but there remained residual reductions in
extracellular serotonin, in vivo. These opposing behavioral effects of serotonin 
manipulations in the same experimental context may be understood in terms of the 
top-down regulatory control of the amygdala by the OFC.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhp236 
PMID: 19903764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

