

2080. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2010 Jan;298(1):R70-8. doi:
10.1152/ajpregu.00193.2009. Epub 2009 Nov 4.

Pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone release from hypothalamic explants of
male marmoset monkeys compared with male rats.

Woller MJ(1), Tannenbaum PL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Eshelman BD, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Sciences, Univ. of Wisconsin-Whitewater, Whitewater, WI 53190-1790,
USA. wollerm@uww.edu

The present study was conducted to quantify in vitro gonadotropin-releasing
hormone (GnRH) release parameters in the male marmoset. We established primary
cultures of marmoset hypothalamic tissues for approximately 2 days (marmosets) to
assess GnRH release profiles in vitro in hypothalamic explants from testis-intact
and gonadectomized males. Pulsatile GnRH release profiles were readily
demonstrated from in vitro hypothalamic explants isolated from adult male
marmoset monkeys. Gonadectomy of male marmosets resulted in elevated mean GnRH
and pulse amplitude from hypothalamic explants on the 1st day of culture (day 0).
GnRH pulse amplitude increased by day 2 in approximately 67% of hypothalamic
explants from testis-intact marmosets, suggesting release from an endogenous
regulator of GnRH. We also measured GnRH release profiles in vitro in
hypothalamic explants from testis-intact and gonadectomized rats. Male rats
showed no changes in any concentration or frequency release parameters for GnRH
following gonadectomy or during successive days in culture. The present study
represents a unique examination of GnRH release from male marmoset monkey
hypothalamic tissue and compares release dynamics directly with those obtained
from male rat, suggesting a species difference in feedback regulation of GnRH
release.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.00193.2009 
PMCID: PMC2806204
PMID: 19889867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

