

2082. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2009;125(4):253-9. doi: 10.1159/000235930. Epub 2009 Oct
27.

A non-human primate BAC resource to study interchromosomal segmental
duplications.

Kirsch S(1), Hodler C, Schempp W.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Segmental duplications (SDs) are involved in the reshaping and evolutionary
development of primate genome architecture. Their intrinsic property to promote
genomic instability facilitates genome rearrangements, thereby contributing to
karyotype diversity in primates. However, comparative analyses of SDs based on
whole-genome shotgun assemblies of primate genomes may lead to a distorted view
of their evolutionary dynamics as this method will incorrectly assemble or simply
not represent these regions. Therefore high-quality sequences of chromosomally
assigned SDs are indispensable for unraveling the amplification and dispersal
pattern of SDs during primate evolution. Here, we use an updated version of the
ancestral duplicon state of the non-palindromic SDs of all 4 human Y-chromosome
euchromatin/heterochromatin transition regions to perform a survey of duplicons
genome-wide across 7 primate species. By adjusting experimental conditions to the
mean nucleotide sequence divergence to human we identified 11,075 BAC clones
carrying primate orthologs or paralogs of human Y chromosome-derived duplicons.
Preliminary results indicate lineage-specific amplification of duplicons in
prosimians and gibbons. This BAC-based framework represents the first complete
set of a defined number of duplicons over 60 million years of primate evolution. 
Comparative sequence analysis of this genetic resource can contribute to our
deeper understanding of the impact of segmental duplications on primate genome
evolution.

(c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000235930 
PMID: 19864887  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

