

2083. Magn Reson Med. 2009 Dec;62(6):1510-22. doi: 10.1002/mrm.22135.

Magnetic susceptibility mapping of brain tissue in vivo using MRI phase data.

Shmueli K(1), de Zwart JA, van Gelderen P, Li TQ, Dodd SJ, Duyn JH.

Author information: 
(1)Advanced MRI Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging, National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1065, USA. shmuelik@mail.nih.gov

Phase images in susceptibility-weighted MRI of brain provide excellent contrast. 
However, the phase is affected by tissue geometry and orientation relative to the
main magnetic field (B(0)), and phase changes extend beyond areas of altered
susceptibility. Magnetic susceptibility, on the other hand, is an intrinsic
tissue property, closely reflecting tissue composition. Therefore, recently
developed inverse Fourier-based methods were applied to calculate susceptibility 
maps from high-resolution phase images acquired at a single orientation at 7 T in
the human brain (in vivo and fixed) and at 11.7 T in fixed marmoset brain. In
susceptibility images, the contrast of cortical layers was more consistent than
in phase images and was independent of the structures' orientation relative to
B(0). The contrast of iron-rich deep-brain structures (red nucleus and substantia
nigra) in susceptibility images agreed more closely with iron-dominated R(2) (*) 
images than the phase image contrast, which extended outside the structures. The 
mean susceptibility in these regions was significantly correlated with their
estimated iron content. Susceptibility maps calculated using this method overcome
the orientation-dependence and non-locality of phase image contrast and seem to
reflect underlying tissue composition. Susceptibility images should be easier to 
interpret than phase images and could improve our understanding of the sources of
susceptibility contrast.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.22135 
PMCID: PMC4275127
PMID: 19859937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

