

2084. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2010 Apr 1;166(2):307-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2009.10.008. 
Epub 2009 Oct 23.

Maternal androgen levels during pregnancy are associated with early-life growth
in Geoffroy's marmosets, Callithrix geoffroyi.

Smith AS(1), Birnie AK, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Center, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE, USA. asmith@neuro.fsu.edu

Fetal development is a critical period of physical development, and factors in
the intrauterine environment can cause lasting effects on the growth and
development of offspring. There is little research evaluating organizational
effects of early androgen exposure of endogenous maternal origins on the prenatal
and postnatal growth of offspring. We evaluated the association between maternal 
androgen levels during gestation and pre- and postnatal growth of offspring.
Maternal androgen levels in marmoset females were measured using enzyme
immunoassays of urine samples acquired during 18 pregnancies. Somatic
measurements of the resulting 25 viable offspring were taken on postnatal days
(PND) 2, 30, 60, 120, 180, 240, and 300. Maternal androgen levels during the
first trimester were negatively associated with weight, body length, and several 
girth measurements (i.e., torso, head, chest, and arm circumference) of offspring
on PND 2. First trimester maternal androgen was also negatively associated with
physical growth during early and late infancy but seemed to be positively
associated with a rebound in juvenile growth. Exposure to maternal androgen
during early gestation led to both a reduction in birth weight and postnatal
catch-up for both males and females, equally. Fetal growth retardation and the
reprogramming of metabolic tissues by exposure to prenatal androgen could be
mediating factors of suppressed postnatal growth.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2009.10.008 
PMCID: PMC2834851
PMID: 19854190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

