

2085. Chem Biol Interact. 2010 Jan 5;183(1):67-78. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2009.10.007.

Comparative study of the oxidation of propranolol enantiomers in hepatic and
small intestinal microsomes from cynomolgus and marmoset monkeys.

Shimizudani T(1), Nagaoka K, Hanioka N, Yamano S, Narimatsu S.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama
University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.

Oxidative metabolism of propranolol (PL) enantiomers (R-PL and S-PL) to
4-hydroxypropranolol (4-OH-PL), 5-OH-PL and N-deisopropylpropranolol (NDP) was
examined in hepatic microsomes from cynomolgus and marmoset monkeys and in small 
intestinal microsomes from monkeys and humans. In hepatic microsomes, levels of
oxidation activities were similar between the two monkey species, and substrate
enantioselectivity (R-PL<S-PL) was observed in the formation of 5-OH-PL and/or
NDP. Kinetic experiments revealed that the formation of all metabolites was
biphasic in cynomolgus monkeys, whereas only the formation of NDP was biphasic in
marmosets. Inhibition experiments employing human CYP antibodies and chemical
inhibitors suggested that mainly CYP2D enzymes and partially CYP1A and 2C enzymes
are involved in the oxidation of PL in both monkey liver microsomes. In small
intestinal microsomes, activity levels were much higher in cynomolgus monkeys
than in marmosets and humans and reversed substrate enantioselectivity
(R-PL>S-PL) was seen in the formation of NDP in cynomolgus monkeys and humans and
in the formation of 5-OH-PL in marmosets. The formation of the three metabolites 
in cynomolgus monkeys and the formation of NDP in marmosets were biphasic, while 
the formation of 4-OH-PL in humans was monophasic. From the inhibition
experiments using CYP antibodies, CYP2C9 and 2C19 were thought to be involved as 
N-deisopropylases and CYP2D6 and 3A4 as 4-hydroxylases in human small intestine. 
Furthermore, CYP1A, 2C and 3A enzymes could be involved in cynomolgus monkeys and
CYP2C and 3A enzymes in marmosets. These results indicate that the oxidative
profile of PL in hepatic and small intestinal microsomes differ considerably
among cynomolgus monkeys, marmosets and humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2009.10.007 
PMID: 19853591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

