

2087. J Comp Neurol. 2009 Dec 10;517(5):655-69. doi: 10.1002/cne.22183.

Synaptic inputs onto small bistratified (blue-ON/yellow-OFF) ganglion cells in
marmoset retina.

Percival KA(1), Jusuf PR, Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

The inner plexiform layer of the retina contains functional subdivisions, which
segregate ON and OFF type light responses. Here, we studied quantitatively the ON
and OFF synaptic input to small bistratified (blue-ON/yellow-OFF) ganglion cells 
in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Small bistratified cells display an extensive 
inner dendritic tier that receives blue-ON input from short-wavelength-sensitive 
(S) cones via blue cone bipolar cells. The outer dendritic tier is sparse and is 
thought to receive yellow-OFF input from medium (M)- and long
(L)-wavelength-sensitive cones via OFF diffuse bipolar cells. In total, 14 small 
bistratified cells from different eccentricities were analyzed. The cells were
retrogradely labeled from the koniocellular layers of the lateral geniculate
nucleus and subsequently photofilled. Retinal preparations were processed with
antibodies against the C-terminal binding protein 2, the AMPA receptor subunit
GluR4, and/or gephyrin to identify bipolar and/or amacrine input. The results
show that the synaptic input is evenly distributed across the dendritic tree,
with a density similar to that reported previously for other ganglion cell types.
The population of cells showed a consistent pattern, where bipolar input to the
inner tier is about fourfold greater than bipolar input to the outer tier. This
structural asymmetry of bipolar input may help to balance the weight of cone
signals from the sparse S cone array against inputs from the much denser M/L cone
array.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22183 
PMID: 19830807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

