

2089. Eur J Neurosci. 2009 Oct;30(8):1517-26. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2009.06939.x.
Epub 2009 Oct 12.

Segregation of short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cone signals in the macaque dorsal 
lateral geniculate nucleus.

Roy S(1), Jayakumar J, Martin PR, Dreher B, Saalmann YB, Hu D, Vidyasagar TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry & Vision Sciences, University of Melbourne, Carlton,
Vic. 3053, Australia.

An important problem in the study of the mammalian visual system is whether
functionally different retinal ganglion cell types are anatomically segregated
further up along the central visual pathway. It was previously demonstrated that,
in a New World diurnal monkey (marmoset), the neurones carrying signals from the 
short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cones [blue-yellow (B/Y)-opponent cells] are
predominantly located in the koniocellular layers of the dorsal lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN), whereas the red-green (R/G)-opponent cells carrying
signals from the medium- and long-wavelength-sensitive cones are segregated in
the parvocellular layers. Here, we used extracellular single-unit recordings
followed by histological reconstruction to investigate the distribution of
color-selective cells in the LGN of the macaque, an Old World diurnal monkey.
Cells were classified using cone-isolating stimuli to identify their cone inputs.
Our results indicate that the majority of cells carrying signals from S-cones are
located either in the koniocellular layers or in the 'koniocellular bridges' that
fully or partially span the parvocellular layers. By contrast, the R/G-opponent
cells are located in the parvocellular layers. We conclude that anatomical
segregation of B/Y- and R/G-opponent afferent signals for color vision is common 
to the LGNs of New World and Old World diurnal monkeys.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2009.06939.x 
PMCID: PMC2777259
PMID: 19821840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

