

2095. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 2010 Feb;30(2):273-85. doi: 10.1038/jcbfm.2009.209.
Epub 2009 Sep 30.

Permanent or transient chronic ischemic stroke in the non-human primate:
behavioral, neuroimaging, histological, and immunohistochemical investigations.

Bihel E(1), Pro-Sistiaga P, Letourneur A, Toutain J, Saulnier R, Insausti R,
Bernaudin M, Roussel S, Touzani O.

Author information: 
(1)CERVOxy Team, Hypoxia and Cerebrovascular Pathophysiology, CI-NAPS UMR-6232,
CNRS, CEA, Université de Caen, Université Paris Descartes, Caen, France.

Using multimodal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), behavioral, and
immunohistochemical analyses, we examined pathological changes at the acute,
sub-acute, and chronic stages, induced by permanent or temporary ischemia in the 
common marmoset. Animals underwent either permanent (pMCAO) or 3-h transient
(tMCAO) occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO) by the intraluminal thread
approach. MRI scans were performed at 1 h, 8, and 45 days after MCAO.
Sensorimotor deficits were assessed weekly up to 45 days after MCAO.
Immunohistological studies were performed to examine neuronal loss, astrogliosis,
and neurogenesis. Remote lesions were analyzed using retrograde neuronal tracers.
At day 8 (D8), the lesion defined on diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)-MRI and
T2-MRI was significantly larger in pMCAO as compared with that in the tMCAO
group. At D45, the former still displayed abnormal signals in T2-MRI. Post-mortem
analyses revealed widespread neuronal loss and associated astrogliosis to a
greater extent in the pMCAO group. Neurogenesis was increased in both groups in
the vicinity of the lesion. Disconnections between the caudate and the temporal
cortex, and between the parietal cortex and the thalamus, were observed.
Sensorimotor impairments were more severe and long-lasting in pMCAO relative to
tMCAO. The profile of brain damage and functional deficits seen in the marmoset
suggests that this model could be suitable to test therapies against stroke.

DOI: 10.1038/jcbfm.2009.209 
PMCID: PMC2949113
PMID: 19794396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

