

2096. Genet Mol Biol. 2009 Oct;32(4):786-91. doi: 10.1590/S1415-47572009005000069. Epub
2009 Dec 1.

Synteny of human chromosomes 14 and 15 in the platyrrhines (Primates,
Platyrrhini).

Gifalli-Iughetti C(1), Koiffmann CP.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Estudos do Genoma Humano, Departamento de Genética e Biologia
Evolutiva, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP
Brazil.

In order to study the intra- and interspecific variability of the 14/15
association in Platyrrhini, we analyzed 15 species from 13 genera, including
species that had not been described yet. The DNA libraries of human chromosomes
14 and 15 were hybridized to metaphases of Alouatta guariba clamitans, A. caraya,
A. sara, Ateles paniscus chamek, Lagothrix lagothricha, Brachyteles arachnoides, 
Saguinus midas midas, Leontopithecus chrysomelas, Callimico goeldii, Callithrix
sp., Cebus apella, Aotus nigriceps, Cacajao melanocephalus,Chiropotes satanas and
Callicebus caligatus. The 14/15 hybridization pattern was present in 13 species, 
but not in Alouatta sara that showed a 14/15/14 pattern and Aotus nigriceps that 
showed a 15/14/15/14 pattern. In the majority of the species, the HSA 14
homologue retained synteny for the entire chromosome, whereas the HSA 15
homologue displayed fragmented segments. Within primates, the New World monkeys
represent the taxon with the highest variability in chromosome number (2n = 16 to
62). The presence of the HSA 14/15 association in all species and subspecies
studied herein confirms that this association is the ancestral condition for
platyrrhines and that this association has been retained in most platyrrhines,
despite the occurrence of extensive inter- and intrachromosomal rearrangements in
this infraorder of Primates.

DOI: 10.1590/S1415-47572009005000069 
PMCID: PMC3036896
PMID: 21637455 

