

2098. Hypertension. 2009 Nov;54(5):1115-22. doi: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.109.136580.
Epub 2009 Sep 21.

Prenatal dexamethasone exposure does not alter blood pressure and nephron number 
in the young adult marmoset monkey.

Bramlage CP(1), Schlumbohm C, Pryce CR, Mirza S, Schnell C, Amann K, Amstrong VW,
Eitner F, Zapf A, Feldon J, Oellerich M, Fuchs E, Müller GA, Strutz F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Nephrology and Rheumatology, Georg-August-University
Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany. c.bramlage@med.uni-goettingen.de

The influence of prenatal factors on the development of arterial hypertension has
gained considerable interest in recent years. Prenatal dexamethasone exposure was
found to induce hypertension and to alter nephron number and size in rodents and 
sheep. However, it is not clear whether these findings are applicable to nonhuman
primates. Thus, we examined the effects of prenatal dexamethasone treatment on
blood pressure (BP) and nephron number in marmoset monkeys. Fifty-two marmosets
were allotted to 3 groups according to the gestational stage during which their
mothers were exposed to oral 5-mg/kg dexamethasone for 7 days (gestation period: 
20 weeks): (1) the early dexamethasone group at week 7; (2) the late
dexamethasone group at week 13; and (3) the control group. BP was determined by
telemetric (n=12) or cuff measurements (n=30), along with cystatin C,
proteinuria, and body weight. All of the animals were euthanized at the age of 24
months, and glomerular number and volume were determined. Prenatal exposure to
dexamethasone did not lead to a significant difference between the groups with
regard to BP, kidney morphology and function, or body weight. BP correlated
significantly with body weight, relative kidney weight, and mean glomerular
volume and the body weight with the glomerular volume regardless of dexamethasone
treatment. In conclusion, prenatal exposure to dexamethasone in marmosets does
not, in contrast to other mammals studied, result in hypertension or changes in
kidney morphology. Our data support the role of body weight as a predictor of
elevated glomerular volume and BP development rather than prenatal dexamethasone 
exposure.

DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.109.136580 
PMID: 19770406  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

