

21. Infect Immun. 2022 Mar 17;90(3):e0055021. doi: 10.1128/IAI.00550-21. Epub 2022
Jan 18.

The Innate Immune Response in the Marmoset during the Acute Pneumonic Disease
Caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei.

Ngugi S(1), Laws T(1), Simpson AJ(1)(2)(3), Nelson M(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBR division, DSTL Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Lao-Oxford-Mahosot Hospital-Wellcome Trust Research Unit (LOMWRU), Mahosot
Hospital, Vientiane, Lao People's Democratic Republic.
(3)Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of
Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom.

Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent of melioidosis, a severe human
infection that is difficult to treat with antibiotics and for which there is no
effective vaccine. Development of novel treatments rely upon appropriately
characterized animal models. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has been
established at Defense Science and Technology laboratories (DSTL) as a model of
melioidosis. Further analysis was performed on samples generated in these studies
to provide a description of the innate immune response. Many of the immunological
features described, (migration/activation of neutrophils and macrophages,
activation of T cells, elevation of key cytokines IFNγ, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β)
have been observed in acute melioidosis human cases and correlated with
prognosis. Expression of the MHCII marker (HLA-DR) on neutrophils showed
potential as a diagnostic with 80% accuracy when comparing pre- and postchallenge
levels in paired blood samples. Discriminant analysis of cell surface, activation
markers on neutrophils combined with levels of key cytokines, differentiated
between disease states from single blood samples with 78% accuracy. These key
markers have utility as a prototype postexposure, presymptomatic diagnostic.
Ultimately, these data further validate the use of the marmoset as a suitable
model for determining efficacy of medical countermeasures against B.
pseudomallei.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.00550-21 
PMCID: PMC8929355
PMID: 35041487 

