

2101. J Neurosci. 2009 Sep 9;29(36):11192-202. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1286-09.2009.

Nonlinear spectrotemporal interactions underlying selectivity for complex sounds 
in auditory cortex.

Sadagopan S(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Departments of Neuroscience and
Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore,
Maryland 21205, USA.

In the auditory cortex of awake animals, a substantial number of neurons do not
respond to pure tones. These neurons have historically been classified as
"unresponsive" and even been speculated as being nonauditory. We discovered,
however, that many of these neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of awake 
marmoset monkeys were in fact highly selective for complex sound features. We
then investigated how such selectivity might arise from the tone-tuned inputs
that these neurons likely receive. We found that these non-tone responsive
neurons exhibited nonlinear combination-sensitive responses that require precise 
spectral and temporal combinations of two tone pips. The nonlinear
spectrotemporal maps derived from these neurons were correlated with their
selectivity for complex acoustic features. These non-tone responsive and
nonlinear neurons were commonly encountered at superficial cortical depths in A1.
Our findings demonstrate how temporally and spectrally specific nonlinear
integration of putative tone-tuned inputs might underlie a diverse range of high 
selectivity of A1 neurons in awake animals. We propose that describing A1 neurons
with complex response properties in terms of tone-tuned input channels can
conceptually unify a wide variety of observed neural selectivity to complex
sounds into a lower dimensional description.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1286-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC2757444
PMID: 19741126  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

