

2103. Neurosci Res. 2009 Dec;65(4):384-92. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.08.016. Epub 2009
Sep 6.

Transplantation of dendritic cells promotes functional recovery from spinal cord 
injury in common marmoset.

Yaguchi M(1), Tabuse M, Ohta S, Ohkusu-Tsukada K, Takeuchi T, Yamane J, Katoh H, 
Nakamura M, Matsuzaki Y, Yamada M, Itoh T, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H, Toda M.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Research Group, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo
160-8582, Japan.

We previously reported that implantation of dendritic cells (DCs) into the
injured site activates neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) and promotes
functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) in mice. Working toward
clinical application of DC therapy for SCI, we analyzed whether DCs promote
functional recovery after SCI in a non-human primate, the common marmoset (CM).
CMs are usually born as dizygotic twins. They are thus natural bone marrow and
peripheral blood chimeras due to sharing of the placental circulation between
dizygotic twins, leading to functional immune tolerance. In this study, to
identify adequate CM donor-and-host pairs, mixed leukocyte reaction (MLR) assays 
were performed. Then, CM-DCs were generated from the bone marrow of the twin
selected to be donor and transplanted into the injured site of the spinal cord of
the other twin selected to be host, 7 days after injury. Histological analyses
revealed fewer areas of demyelination around the injured site in DC-treated CMs
than in controls. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that more motor neurons and
corticospinal tracts were preserved after SCI in DC-treated CMs. Motor functions 
were evaluated using three different behavior tests and earlier functional
recovery was observed in DC-treated CMs. These results suggest DC therapy to
possibly be beneficial in primates with SCI and that this treatment has potential
for clinical application.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2009.08.016 
PMID: 19737583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

