

2107. J Histochem Cytochem. 2009 Dec;57(12):1159-67. doi: 10.1369/jhc.2009.954123. Epub
2009 Sep 3.

A monoclonal antibody selection for immunohistochemical examination of lymphoid
tissues from non-human primates.

Kap YS(1), van Meurs M, van Driel N, Koopman G, Melief MJ, Brok HP, Laman JD, 't 
Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Center, Rijswijk,
The Netherlands.

Non-human primates (NHPs) offer valuable animal models for basic research into
human diseases and for the preclinical validation of new therapeutics. Detailed
in situ examination of the involved cell types using immunohistochemistry is
often hampered by the lack of cross-reactive antibodies (Abs). In the current
study, we have tested a large panel of monoclonal antibodies raised against human
leukocyte differentiation and activation markers for cross-reactivity on
cryosections of lymphoid tissue from six NHP species. In total, we have tested
130 Abs against 69 antigens expressed in tissues from one great ape species
(chimpanzee/Pan troglodytes), two Old World species (rhesus macaque/Macaca
mulatta and cynomolgus macaque/Macaca fascicularis), and three New World species 
(common marmoset/Callithrix jacchus, cotton-top tamarin/Saguinus oedipus, and owl
monkey/Aotus triviogatus). We have found a large panel of cross-reactive Abs: 93 
of 102 (91%) in chimpanzee, 97 of 125 (78%) in rhesus macaque, 70 of 109 (64%) in
cynomolgus macaque, 69 of 116 (60%) in common marmoset, 40 of 81 (49%) in
cotton-top tamarin, and 35 of 80 (44%) in owl monkey. The availability of a
reliable panel of cross-reactive markers is important to gaining further insight 
into immunological processes in disease-affected tissues from NHP species.

DOI: 10.1369/jhc.2009.954123 
PMCID: PMC2778089
PMID: 19729671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

