

2110. Am J Primatol. 2009 Dec;71(12):957-63. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20737.

Digestion in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a gummivore-frugivore.

Power ML(1), Myers EW.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Conservation and Ecology Center, Smithsonian National
Zoological Park, PO Box 37012 MRC 5503, Washington, DC 20013-7012, USA.
powerm@si.edu

Wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) feed on fruits, insects, and gums, all
of which provide different digestive challenges. Much of the ingested mass of
fruits consists of seeds. In general, seeds represent indigestible bulk to
marmosets and could inhibit feeding if they are not eliminated rapidly. In
contrast, gums are beta-linked polysaccharides that require microbial
fermentation. Their digestion would benefit from an extended residence time
within the gut. Earlier research found that mean retention time (MRT) for a
liquid digestive marker (cobalt EDTA) was significantly longer than MRT for a
particulate marker (chromium-mordanted fiber), suggesting that common marmosets
preferentially retain liquid digesta. We conducted two four-day-long digestion
trials on 13 individually housed adult common marmosets fed a single-item,
purified diet in order to examine the relations among MRT of cobalt EDTA and
chromium-mordanted fiber, food dry matter intake (DMI), and apparent
digestibility of dry matter (ADDM). We compared the MRT values with the data from
the previous study mentioned above and a study using polystyrene beads. There
were no significant correlations among MRT, ADDM, or DMI, although increases in
DMI between trials were associated with decreases in MRT. ADDM was consistent
within individuals between trials; but the mean values ranged from 75.0 to 83.4% 
among individuals. We found no difference in MRT between the liquid (17.5 + or - 
1.6 hr) and particulate (17.9 + or - 1.4 hr) markers. Although these values were 
not significantly different than found previously, the MRT for chromium-mordanted
fiber tended to be longer. This probably reflects the relatively small size of
the chromium-mordanted fiber particles used in this study. An inverse
relationship between particle size and MRT was evident; the mean MRT of
polysterene beads, the largest marker, was only 8.3 + or - 1.5 hr. Marmosets
appear to retain liquids and small particles within the gut longer than large
particles.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20737 
PMID: 19725117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

