

2115. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2009 Dec;53(3):808-25. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.08.004.
Epub 2009 Aug 12.

Patterns of macroevolution among Primates inferred from a supermatrix of
mitochondrial and nuclear DNA.

Fabre PH(1), Rodrigues A, Douzery EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution (ISEM, UMR 5554 CNRS), Universit√©
Montpellier II, Place E. Bataillon, CC 064, 34095 Montpellier Cedex 5, France.
phfabre@univ-montp2.fr

Here, we present a new primate phylogeny inferred from molecular supermatrix
analyses of size 42 kb containing 70% of missing data, and representing 75% of
primate species diversity. The supermatrix was analysed using a gene-partitioned 
maximum likelihood approach to obtain an exhaustive molecular phylogenetic
framework. All clades recovered from recent molecular works were upheld in our
analyses demonstrating that the presence of missing data did not bias our
supermatrix inference. The resulting phylogenetic tree was subsequently dated
with a molecular dating method to provide a timescale for speciation events.
Results obtained from our relaxed molecular clock analyses concurred with
previous works based on the same fossil constraints. The resulting dated tree
allowed to infer of macroevolutionary processes among the primates. Shifts in
diversification rate and speciation rates were determined using the SymmeTREE
method and a birthdeath process. No significant asymmetry was detected for the
primate clade, but significant shifts in diversification rate were identified for
seven clades: Anthropoidea, Lemuriformes, Lemuridae, Galagidae, Callithrix genus,
the Cercopithecinae and Asian Macaca. Comparisons with previous primate supertree
results reveal that (i) there was a diversification event at the root of the
Lemuriformes, (ii) a higher diversification rate is detected for Cercopithecidae 
and Anthropoidea and (iii) a shift in diversification is always recovered for
Macaca genus. Macroevolutionary inferences and primate divergence dates show that
major primate diversification events occurred after the Paleogene, suggesting the
extinction of ancient primate lineages.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.08.004 
PMID: 19682589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

