

2118. Eur J Neurosci. 2009 Aug;30(4):578-92. doi: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2009.06846.x.
Epub 2009 Aug 3.

Connections of the marmoset rostrotemporal auditory area: express pathways for
analysis of affective content in hearing.

Reser DH(1), Burman KJ, Richardson KE, Spitzer MW, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.
David.Reser@med.monash.edu.au

The current hierarchical model of primate auditory cortical processing proposes a
core of 'primary-like' areas, which is surrounded by secondary (belt) and
tertiary (parabelt) regions. The rostrotemporal auditory cortical area (RT)
remains the least well characterized of the three proposed core areas, and its
functional organization has only recently come under scrutiny. Here we used
injections of anterograde and retrograde tracers in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) to examine the connectivity of RT and its adjacent areas. As
expected from the current model, RT exhibited dense core-like reciprocal
connectivity with the ventral division of the medial geniculate body, the rostral
core area and the auditory belt, but had weaker connections with the parabelt.
However, RT also projected to the ipsilateral rostromedial prefrontal cortex
(area 10), the dorsal temporal pole and the ventral caudate nucleus, as well as
bilaterally to the lateral nucleus of the amygdala. Thus, RT has connectivity
with limbic structures previously believed to connect only with higher-order
auditory association cortices, and is probably functionally distinct from the
other core areas. While this view is consistent with a proposed role of RT in
temporal integration, our results also indicate that RT could provide an
anatomical 'shortcut' for processing affective content in auditory information.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2009.06846.x 
PMID: 19663937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

