

2120. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2010 Jan 15;165(2):309-14. doi: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2009.07.015.
Epub 2009 Jul 29.

Maternal gestational androgen levels in female marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi)
vary across trimesters but do not vary with the sex ratio of litters.

French JA(1), Smith AS, Birnie AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Callitrichid Research Center, University of
Nebraska at Omaha, 6001 Dodge St., Omaha, NE 68182, USA. jfrench@mail.unomaha.edu

Maternal hormones can dramatically modify offspring phenotypes via organizational
actions on morphological and behavioral development. In placental mammals, there 
is the possibility that some portion of hormones in maternal circulation may be
derived from fetal origin. We tested the possibility that maternal androgens in
pregnant female marmosets reflected, in part, contributions from male fetuses by 
comparing levels of urinary androgens across pregnancy in females carrying
varying numbers of male offspring. We monitored urinary androgen excretion in 18 
pregnancies from five female white-faced marmosets (Callithrix geoffroyi).
Androgen levels rose significantly in the first trimester of pregnancy, reached a
peak in the middle of the second trimester, and then declined gradually until
parturition. At no point in pregnancy were levels of urinary androgens higher in 
females carrying litters that had 50% or more males than in females carrying
litters that were less than 50% male. Levels of maternal androgens were not
associated with litter size, the number of males in the litter, or with the
proportion of the litter that was male. The high levels of androgen in pregnant
females are therefore likely of strictly maternal origin, and any modification of
fetal growth and development can be considered a 'maternal effect'.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2009.07.015 
PMCID: PMC2784116
PMID: 19646445  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

