

2122. Am J Primatol. 2009 Nov;71(11):912-8. doi: 10.1002/ajp.20729.

Development of microsatellite DNA markers and their chromosome assignment in the 
common marmoset.

Katoh H(1), Takabayashi S, Itoh T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Experimental Animals, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine,
Hamamatsu, Japan. hideki-k@hama-med.ac.jp

This study was performed to develop microsatellite DNA markers, which are useful 
for linkage analyses, gene mapping and blood chimera analyses in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We searched 153 of 295 bacterial artificial clone 
DNA sequences of the common marmoset that were archived in the NCBI database in
2004. On the basis of the search, we designed 186 PCR primer sets. When tested
using 5 unrelated individuals, we successfully detected 154 markers with PCR
products, of which 80 (52%) were polymorphic and 74 (48%) were monomorphic. We
assigned each of the 154 markers to a human chromosome based on BLAST searches,
which was achieved by searching the entire human genome sequences using an
approximately 3 kb section of each forward primer sequence, including
approximately 1.5 kb of the upstream and approximately 1.5 kb of the downstream
sequences. Combining our assignment data and the chromosome painting-assisted
karyotype of the common marmoset [Sherlock et al., Genomics 33:214-219, 1996], we
prepared a list of 154 microsatellite DNA markers that were assigned to human
chromosomes, except for the Y chromosome, which is equivalent to a chromosome
map. Using five microsatellite DNA markers, we have established a fragment
analysis method with a sequencer, which can be routinely used for blood chimera
analysis, parentage diagnosis and individual identification.

Copyright 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20729 
PMID: 19637280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

