

2123. Chem Biol Drug Des. 2009 Jun;73(6):637-43. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-0285.2009.00810.x.

Interaction of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) receptor binding inhibitor-8: a
novel FSH-binding inhibitor, with FSH and its receptor.

Chitnis SS(1), Selvaakumar C, Jagtap DD, Barnwal RP, Chary KV, Mahale SD,
Nandedkar TD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Indian Council of
Medical Research, Mumbai, India.

Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) receptor binding inhibitor (FRBI-8) is a novel
octapeptide purified from human ovarian follicular fluid. In vitro, it inhibits
the binding of FSH to granulosa cells and in vivo, it induces atresia in
developing follicles in rodents. This peptide, when administered to marmosets and
bonnet monkeys, altered the circulating progesterone levels. This study was
carried out to elucidate structure of the FRBI-8 and understand its mechanism of 
inhibiting interaction of FSH to its receptors. Homology modeling predicted that 
the FRBI-8 adopts a turn and random coil. This is further confirmed by circular
dichroism and NMR. Docking studies of the FRBI-8 with reported FSH-FSHR hormone
binding (FSHR(HB)) domain complex using ZDOCK algorithm revealed that the FRBI-8 
binds to FSHbetaL2-FSHR(HB) binding interface which is otherwise known to be
crucial for activation of signal transduction cascade. FRBI-8 analogs were
designed by replacing the acidic amino acid residues at positions 2, 5 and 6 with
Ala, individually. Docking studies revealed that D6A mutant (FRBI-8(D6A)) had a
higher binding affinity than the native FRBI-8. In vitro radioreceptor assay with
FRBI-8(D6A) showed 50% lower IC(50) compared with the FRBI-8, confirming the in
silico observations. Thus, the study reveals that both FRBI-8 and FRBI-8(D6A)
interfered with the binding of FSH to its receptor.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-0285.2009.00810.x 
PMID: 19635055  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

