

2128. J Virol. 2009 Sep;83(17):8771-80. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00112-09. Epub 2009 Jun 24.

A New World primate deficient in tetherin-mediated restriction of human
immunodeficiency virus type 1.

Wong SK(1), Connole M, Sullivan JS, Choe H, Carville A, Farzan M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Harvard Medical School, and
New England Primate Research Center, Southborough, Massachusettts 01772, USA.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) does not replicate in primary cells
of New World primates. To better understand this restriction, we expressed owl
monkey (Aotus nancymaae) CD4 and CXCR4 in the owl monkey kidney cell line, OMK.
An HIV-1 variant modified to evade the owl monkey restriction factor TRIM-cyp
replicated efficiently in these cells but could not replicate in primary A.
nancymaae CD4-positive T cells. To understand this difference, we examined
APOBEC3G and tetherin orthologs from OMK cells and primary A. nancymaae cells. We
observed that OMK cells expressed substantially lower levels of APOBEC3G than did
A. nancymaae cells. A. nancymaae, but not marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), APOBEC3G
was partially downregulated by HIV-1 vif and reduced but did not abolish HIV-1
replication when stably expressed in OMK cells. The functional difference between
A. nancymaae and marmoset APOBEC3Gs mapped to residue 128, previously shown to
distinguish African green monkey from human APOBEC3G. We also characterized
tetherin orthologs from OMK and A. nancymaae cells. The A. nancymaae tetherin
ortholog, but not OMK tetherin, prevented HIV-1 release. Alteration of threonine 
181 of OMK tetherin rescued its function and its efficient N glycosylation. All
alleles of Aotus lemurinus griseimembra examined, but none of A. nancymaae or
Aotus vociferans, encoded this nonfunctional tetherin ortholog. Our data indicate
that HIV-1 replication in owl monkeys is not restricted at entry but can be
limited by APOBEC3G and tetherin. Further, A. lemurinus griseimembra does not
restrict HIV-1 replication via tetherin, a property likely useful for the study
of tetherin-restricted viruses.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00112-09 
PMCID: PMC2738210
PMID: 19553332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

