

213. Neuroimage. 2021 Feb 1;226:117620. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117620. Epub
2020 Dec 8.

Marmoset Brain Mapping V3: Population multi-modal standard volumetric and
surface-based templates.

Liu C(1), Yen CC(2), Szczupak D(3), Tian X(3), Glen D(4), Silva AC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute, 3501
Fifth Avenue, 6065 Biomedical Science Tower 3, Pittsburgh PA, USA; Cerebral
Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA; CAS Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Institute of Neuroscience, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai 200031, China.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute, 3501
Fifth Avenue, 6065 Biomedical Science Tower 3, Pittsburgh PA, USA; Cerebral
Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Scientific and Statistical Computing Core, National Institute of Mental
Health, National Institutes of Health (NIMH/NIH), Bethesda, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh Brain Institute, 3501
Fifth Avenue, 6065 Biomedical Science Tower 3, Pittsburgh PA, USA; Cerebral
Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular Imaging,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. Electronic address: afonso@pitt.edu.

The standard anatomical brain template provides a common space and coordinate
system for visualizing and analyzing neuroimaging data from large cohorts of
subjects. Previous templates and atlases for the common marmoset brain were
either based on data from a single individual or lacked essential functionalities
for neuroimaging analysis. Here, we present new population-based in-vivo standard
templates and tools derived from multi-modal data of 27 marmosets, including
multiple types of T1w and T2w contrast images, DTI contrasts, and large
field-of-view MRI and CT images. We performed multi-atlas labeling of anatomical 
structures on the new templates and constructed highly accurate tissue-type
segmentation maps to facilitate volumetric studies. We built fully featured brain
surfaces and cortical flat maps to facilitate 3D visualization and surface-based 
analyses, which are compatible with most surface analyzing tools, including
FreeSurfer, AFNI/SUMA, and the Connectome Workbench. Analysis of the MRI and CT
datasets revealed significant variations in brain shapes, sizes, and regional
volumes of brain structures, highlighting substantial individual variabilities in
the marmoset population. Thus, our population-based template and associated tools
provide a versatile analysis platform and standard coordinate system for a wide
range of MRI and connectome studies of common marmosets. These new template tools
comprise version 3 of our Marmoset Brain Mapping Project and are publicly
available via marmosetbrainmapping.org/v3.html.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117620 
PMCID: PMC7908070
PMID: 33307224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

