

2132. Cloning Stem Cells. 2009 Jun;11(2):225-33. doi: 10.1089/clo.2008.0064.

Growth characteristics of the nonhuman primate embryonic stem cell line cjes001
depending on feeder cell treatment.

Fleischmann G(1), MÃ¼ller T, Blasczyk R, Sasaki E, Horn PA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, University Hospital Essen , Essen,
Germany.

Embryonic stem cells (ESC) hold tremendous potential for therapeutic
applications, including regenerative medicine, as well as for understanding basic
mechanisms in stem cell biology. Since numerous experiments cannot be conducted
in human ESC because of ethical or practical limitations, nonhuman primate ESC
serve as invaluable clinically relevant models. The novel marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) ESC line cjes001 was characterized using different stem cell markers.
The cells were stained positively with Oct4, SSEA-3, SSEA-4, Tra-1-60, Tra-1-81, 
and Sox-2 underscoring their status as undifferentiated ESC. ESC are typically
grown on mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) as feeder cells whose proliferation is
arrested either by treatment with Mitomycin C or by gamma-irradiation. To assess 
the impact of these treatments on the ability of MEF to support the growth of
undifferentiated ESC, we used an MTT assay to evaluate the cellular metabolic
activity of growth arrested feeder cells. There was a significant (p < 0.02)
difference in gamma-irradiated cells displaying a higher metabolic activity
compared to Mitomycin C inactivation. Also we quantified 69 soluble factors in
the supernatant of both Mitomycin-treated and gamma-irradiated MEF by bead-based 
multiplex analysis, and thus established a profile of MEF-secreted factors. The
time course of secretion was analyzed by monitoring the supernatant at 0, 6, 12, 
and 24 h after changing the medium. Comparing gamma-irradiated and
Mitomycin-treated MEF suggested higher amounts of some cytokines including FGF or
SCF by the former. We also assessed whether the method of inactivation had an
effect on growth kinetics and differentiation of primate ESC. There appeared to
be a trend to a lower number of differentiated ESC colonies on the
gamma-irradiated feeder cells, suggesting that this may be the preferable method 
of growth arrest.

DOI: 10.1089/clo.2008.0064 
PMID: 19522672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

