

2143. J Endocrinol. 2009 Dec;203(3):313-26. doi: 10.1677/JOE-08-0554. Epub 2009 May 27.

Plasticity of the zona reticularis in the adult marmoset adrenal cortex: voyages 
of discovery in the New World.

Pattison JC(1), Abbott DH, Saltzman W, Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 7E Meriter
Hospital/Park, 202 South Park Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53715, USA.

Adrenarche in humans occurs at the age of 5-7 years, yet the process by which
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) biosynthesis in the adrenal zona reticularis (ZR)
increases so dramatically remains as a matter of debate. One suggestion is that
increased DHEA production by P450c17 (CYP17A1 as listed in HUGO Database) in the 
ZR results from a coincident fall in the expression of HSD3B, which would
otherwise compete for pregnenolone substrate. Nonetheless, studies of human and
rhesus adrenal show that cytochrome b5 (CYTB5) expression increases in the ZR
with DHEA biosynthesis, and cloned human and rhesus P450c17 show selective
increases in 17,20-lyase activity in the presence of CYTB5. The marmoset, a New
World primate, expresses a fetal zone during development which regresses after
birth. Adult males, however, do not develop an obvious functional ZR, while
females develop a ZR in a manner that depends on their social/gonadal status. In 
all social and physiologic states, changes in marmoset ZR function relate
directly to changes in the expression of CYTB5. Recent cloning and expression of 
marmoset P450c17 also show that while amino acid sequence homology is in the
order of approximately 85% of that found in human and rhesus sequences, and basal
lyase activity is low compared with rhesus, all previously described amino acids 
critical to human 17,20-lyase activity are completely conserved. Furthermore, the
17,20-lyase activity of the marmoset P450c17 clone is dramatically increased by
addition of CYTB5. We propose that these combined data from the marmoset model
provide further compelling evidence that the control of ZR CYTB5 expression is a 
key determinant of ZR function.

DOI: 10.1677/JOE-08-0554 
PMID: 19474057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

