

2144. Anim Cogn. 2009 Sep;12(5):725-32. doi: 10.1007/s10071-009-0234-z. Epub 2009 May
18.

Recognition of a 3D snake model and its 2D photographic image by captive black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Emile N(1), Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, Brasilia, DF, CEP 70910-900, Brazil.

Two-dimensional (2D) displays of real three-dimensional (3D) objects are
frequently used experimental tools in animal studies. Whether marmoset monkeys,
with their highly diverse and complex anti-predation strategies, readily
recognized 2D representations of potential threats has yet to be determined, as
seen in other primates. Thus, the behavioral responses of adult captive black
tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) toward an unfamiliar motionless
snake-model and its photograph were assessed. Pictorially na√Øve subjects were
randomly divided into two groups (n = 12/each) and submitted to two trials. Group
1 was initially exposed to the 3D object and after 1 week to its photograph.
Group 2 was first presented the picture and only tested with the real object 1
week later. All 15-min trials were divided into three consecutive 5-min
intervals: pre-exposure, exposure and post-exposure. In the presence of the 3D
snake object, regardless of its presentation order, the frequency of direct
gazes, head-cocks, tsik-tsik alarm/mobbing calls and genital displays increased
significantly. The photograph induced a similar response, although only when the 
object had been previously presented, as significantly higher levels of these
behaviors were seen in Group 1 than Group 2. Proximity to the stimulus, aerial
scan, terrestrial glance, displacement activities and locomotion were not
consistently influenced by the stimuli's presence and/or order of presentation.
Therefore, marmosets recognized and responded appropriately to biologically and
emotionally relevant 3D and 2D stimuli. Since the aversive/fearful reactions
toward the photograph were only seen after the snake object had been presented,
the former seems to be essentially a learned response.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-009-0234-z 
PMID: 19449190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

