

2149. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2009 Apr;1160:140-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.03947.x.

Relaxin supports implantation and early pregnancy in the marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Lieder K, Husen B, Ebert K, Lier S, Einspanier R, Unemori E,
Kemper M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Veterinary Faculty, University of
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. einspanier@vetmed.uni-leipzig.de

To test the hypothesis that relaxin is an important factor supporting
implantation, two approaches have been carried out using a human-relevant animal 
model, the marmoset monkey. First, uterine mRNA transcription and protein
expression during the implantation phase in the conceptive and nonconceptive
cycles were examined. Second, functional parameters were analyzed to assess the
in vivo effects of exogenous applied relaxin throughout implantation. Relaxin and
its receptor, RXFP1, were highly upregulated shortly before and during the
physical process of implantation, indicating that relaxin is an important factor 
for remodeling and immunotolerance. The action of relaxin on the uterus was
accompanied by an increase of estrogen-associated factors and macrophage
infiltration, suggesting redundant systems necessary for successful implantation.
The data from relaxin-treated animals supported those obtained from naive tissues
in terms of increases in angiogenesis as well as earlier and faster growth of the
uterus and placenta in the relaxin-treated marmoset monkey group, resulting in
parturition 7-10 days earlier than the control group, but not pathological. In
general, relaxin is very effective in preparing the endometrium for implantation.
These findings should encourage further clinical research regarding introducing
relaxin for pathological pregnancies, such as early pregnancy failure or
insufficient placenta.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.03947.x 
PMID: 19416176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

