

2150. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2009 Aug;93(2):134-40. doi: 10.1016/j.pbb.2009.04.020.
Epub 2009 May 3.

Humans and natural predators induce different fear/anxiety reactions and response
pattern to diazepam in marmoset monkeys.

Cagni P(1), Gon√ßalves I Jr, Ziller F, Emile N, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

The behavioral response of marmoset monkeys in the Human Threat (HT) test of
anxiety, and the effects of diazepam (DZP), were compared to those in the
Predator Confrontation (PC) procedure. Subjects (n=13) were initially submitted
to four habituation trials, followed by four random confrontation sessions for
each test (DZP 0, 1, 2 and 3 mg/kg). Each trial was divided into three
consecutive 5-min intervals: pre-exposure, exposure (human observer, taxidermized
oncilla cat) and post-exposure. As DZP induced sedation, marmosets (n=10) were
re-tested in a second experiment, consisting of two habituation trials and four
confrontation sessions per stimulus, with lower DZP doses (0, 0.10, 0.25 and 0.50
mg/kg). Exposure to both stimuli significantly increased direct gazes and alarm
calls, being dose-dependently reduced by DZP only in the PC test. In the HT
protocol, the significant decrease in aerial scans was not detected with 0.10
mg/kg DZP. Locomotion, proximity, displacement activities and vigilance were not 
consistently influenced by the stimuli and/or DZP. The results thus suggest that 
the HT test had a greater impact on the marmosets' behavior, while DZP was more
effective on the reactions observed in the PC test, possibly due to the inherent 
nature of each stimulus, distinct threat levels and/or presentation order.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2009.04.020 
PMID: 19414027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

