

2151. J Pharmacol Sci. 2009 May;110(1):64-8. Epub 2009 Apr 29.

Zonisamide increases dopamine turnover in the striatum of mice and common
marmosets treated with MPTP.

Yabe H(1), Choudhury ME, Kubo M, Nishikawa N, Nagai M, Nomoto M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Therapeutic Medicine, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Japan.

The effect of zonisamide, an antiepileptic agent with anti-parkinsonian effects, 
was studied on dopamine neurons of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated C57 mice and common marmosets. Groups of mice (n = 8 - 9) were
treated with: MPTP (15 mg/kg every 2 h x4); MPTP plus zonisamide (40 mg/kg
administered 1 h before each MPTP dose); MPTP plus selegiline (2 mg/kg
administered 1 h before the first MPTP dose); zonisamide (40 mg/kg x4); and
saline controls. Groups of common marmosets (n = 4 - 6) were treated with: MPTP
(2.5 mg/kg every 24 h x3); MPTP plus zonisamide (40 mg/kg administered 1 h before
each MPTP dose); MPTP plus selegiline (2 mg/kg administered 1 h before the first 
MPTP dose); and saline controls. Brain dopamine and its metabolites were
determined by HPLC. Dopamine content decreased in the striatum of MPTP-treated
mice and monkeys. Co-administration of selegiline inhibited the effect of MPTP
and dopamine contents were similar to those of the controls. Co-administration of
zonisamide did not inhibit the effect of MPTP on dopamine content, but increased 
striatal dopamine turnover of animals treated with MPTP plus zonisamide more than
in those treated with MPTP alone. MPTP treatment caused a compensatory increase
of dopamine turnover in the striatum by remaining neurons. Zonisamide may help
dopaminergic neurons by increasing striatal dopamine turnover following MPTP
treatment.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.09019fp 
PMID: 19403994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

