

2154. Am J Hum Biol. 2009 Nov-Dec;21(6):745-53. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20923.

Fetal signaling through placental structure and endocrine function: illustrations
and implications from a nonhuman primate model.

Rutherford JN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois 60208,
USA. julienne-rutherford@northwestern.edu

The placenta is a transmitter of fetal need and fetal quality, interfacing
directly with maternal physiology and ecology. Plasticity of placental structure 
and function across the developmental timeframe of gestation may serve as an
important tool by which a fetus calibrates its growth to shifting maternal
ecology and resource availability, and thereby signals its quality and
adaptability to a changing environment. Signals of this quality may be conveyed
by the size of the placental interface, an important marker of fetal access to
maternal resources, or by production of placental insulin-like growth factor-II, 
a driver of fetoplacental growth. Litter size variation in the common marmoset
monkey offers the opportunity to explore intrauterine resource allocation and
placental plasticity in an important nonhuman primate model. Triplet marmosets
are born at lower birth weights and have poorer postnatal outcomes and
survivorship than do twins; triplet placentas differ in placental efficiency,
microscopic morphology, and endocrine function. Through placental plasticity,
triplet fetuses are able to adjust functional access to maternal resources in a
way that allows pregnancy to proceed. However, the costs of such mechanisms may
relate to reduced fetal growth and altered postnatal outcomes, with the potential
to lead to adverse adult health consequences, suggesting an important link
between the placenta itself and the developmental origins of health and disease.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20923 
PMCID: PMC3319756
PMID: 19384862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

