

2158. J Neurosci. 2009 Apr 15;29(15):5009-21. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0219-09.2009.

Adaptable mechanisms that regulate the contrast response of neurons in the
primate lateral geniculate nucleus.

Camp AJ(1), Tailby C, Solomon SG.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch Institute, The 
University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

The response of the classical receptive field of visual neurons can be suppressed
by stimuli that, when presented alone, cause no change in the discharge rate.
This suppression reveals the presence of an extraclassical receptive field
(ECRF). In recordings from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of a New World
primate, the marmoset, we characterize the mechanisms that contribute to the ECRF
by measuring their spatiotemporal tuning during prolonged exposure to a
high-contrast grating (contrast adaptation). The ECRF was strongest in
magnocellular cells, where contrast adaptation reduced suppression from the ECRF:
adaptation of the ECRF transferred across spatial frequency, temporal frequency, 
and orientation, but not across space. This implies that the ECRF of LGN cells
comprises multiple adaptable mechanisms, each broadly tuned but spatially
localized, and consistent with a retinal origin. Signals from the ECRF saturated 
at high contrasts, and so adaptation of one part of the ECRF brought into its
operating range signals from other parts of the visual field. Although the ECRF
is adaptable, its major impact during contrast adaptation to a spatially extended
pattern was to reduce visual response and hence reduce a neuron's susceptibility 
to contrast adaptation; in normal viewing, a major role of the ECRF might be to
protect visual sensitivity in scenes dominated by high contrast.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0219-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC6665333
PMID: 19369570  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

