

2160. Cereb Cortex. 2009 Dec;19(12):2865-79. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhp062. Epub 2009 Apr 
14.

Paraneoplastic antigen-like 5 gene (PNMA5) is preferentially expressed in the
association areas in a primate specific manner.

Takaji M(1), Komatsu Y, Watakabe A, Hashikawa T, Yamamori T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Biology, National Institute for Basic Biology, 38
Nishigonaka Myodaiji, Okazaki 444-8585, Japan.

To understand the relationship between the structure and function of primate
neocortical areas at a molecular level, we have been screening for genes
differentially expressed across macaque neocortical areas by restriction landmark
cDNA scanning (RLCS). Here, we report enriched expression of the paraneoplastic
antigen-like 5 gene (PNMA5) in association areas but not in primary sensory
areas, with the lowest expression level in primary visual cortex. In situ
hybridization in the primary sensory areas revealed PNMA5 mRNA expression
restricted to layer II. Along the ventral visual pathway, the expression
gradually increased in the excitatory neurons from the primary to higher visual
areas. This differential expression pattern was very similar to that of
retinol-binding protein (RBP) mRNA, another association-area-enriched gene that
we reported previously. Additional expression analysis for comparison of other
genes in the PNMA gene family, PNMA1, PNMA2, PNMA3, and MOAP1 (PNMA4), showed
that they were widely expressed across areas and layers but without the
differentiated pattern of PNMA5. In mouse brains, PNMA1 was only faintly
expressed and PNMA5 was not detected. Sequence analysis showed divergence of
PNMA5 sequences among mammals. These findings suggest that PNMA5 acquired a
certain specialized role in the association areas of the neocortex during primate
evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhp062 
PMCID: PMC2774394
PMID: 19366867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

