

2162. J Neurosci. 2009 Apr 8;29(14):4548-63. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0529-09.2009.

Connections of the dorsomedial visual area: pathways for early integration of
dorsal and ventral streams in extrastriate cortex.

Rosa MG(1), Palmer SM, Gamberini M, Burman KJ, Yu HH, Reser DH, Bourne JA,
Tweedale R, Galletti C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Melbourne, Victoria
3800, Australia. marcello.rosa@med.monash.edu.au

The dorsomedial area (DM), a subdivision of extrastriate cortex characterized by 
heavy myelination and relative emphasis on peripheral vision, remains the least
understood of the main targets of striate cortex (V1) projections in primates.
Here we placed retrograde tracer injections encompassing the full extent of this 
area in marmoset monkeys, and performed quantitative analyses of the numerical
strengths and laminar patterns of its afferent connections. We found that
feedforward projections from V1 and from the second visual area (V2) account for 
over half of the inputs to DM, and that the vast majority of the remaining
connections come from other topographically organized visual cortices.
Extrastriate projections to DM originate in approximately equal proportions from 
adjacent medial occipitoparietal areas, from the superior temporal
motion-sensitive complex centered on the middle temporal area (MT), and from
ventral stream-associated areas. Feedback from the posterior parietal cortex and 
other association areas accounts for <10% of the connections. These results do
not support the hypothesis that DM is specifically associated with a medial
subcircuit of the dorsal stream, important for visuomotor integration. Instead,
they suggest an early-stage visual-processing node capable of contributing across
cortical streams, much as V1 and V2 do. Thus, although DM may be important for
providing visual inputs for guided body movements (which often depend on
information contained in peripheral vision), this area is also likely to
participate in other functions that require integration across wide expanses of
visual space, such as perception of self-motion and contour completion.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0529-09.2009 
PMCID: PMC6665729
PMID: 19357280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

