

2166. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2009 Aug;17(8):1499-505. doi: 10.1038/oby.2009.77. Epub 
2009 Mar 26.

Characterization of obese phenotypes in a small nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Tardif SD(1), Power ML, Ross CN, Rutherford JN, Layne-Colon DG, Paulik MA.

Author information: 
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, San Antonio, Texas, USA. tardif@uthscsa.edu

This report explores aspects of developing obesity in two captive populations of 
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small primate with a short lifespan that
may be of value in modeling chronic aspects of obesity acquisition and its
lifetime effects. Two populations were examined. In study 1, body composition,
lipid parameters, and glucose metabolic parameters were measured in a population 
of 64 adult animals. Animals classified as obese (>80th percentile relative fat
based on sex) displayed both dyslipidemia (higher triglyceride and very
low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)) and altered glucose metabolism (higher fasting
glucose and HbA(1c)). Using operational definitions of atypical values for
factors associated with metabolic syndrome in humans, five subjects (7.8%) had at
least three atypical factors and five others had two atypical factors. A
previously unreported finding in these normally sexually monomorphic primates was
higher body weight, fat weights, and percent fat in females compared to males. In
a second study, longitudinal weight data for a larger population (n = 210) were
analyzed to evaluate the development of high weight animals. Differences in
weights for animals that would exceed the 90th percentile in early adulthood were
evident from infancy, with a 15% difference in weight between future-large weight
vs. their future-normal weight litter mates as early as 4-6 months of age. The
marmoset, therefore, demonstrates similar suites of obesity-related alterations
to those seen in other primates, including humans, suggesting that this species
is worthy of consideration for obesity studies in which its fast maturity, high
fertility, relatively short lifespan, and small size may be of advantage.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2009.77 
PMCID: PMC3823549
PMID: 19325546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

