

2169. J Exp Zool A Ecol Genet Physiol. 2009 Apr 1;311(4):289-302. doi: 10.1002/jez.531.

Detection of fruit by the Cerrado's marmoset (Callithrix penicillata): modeling
color signals for different background scenarios and ambient light intensities.

Perini ES(1), Pessoa VF, Pessoa DM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroscience and Behavior, Department of Physiological Sciences,
Institute of Biology, University of Brasilia, Brasilia-DF, Brazil.

Among placental mammals, only primates have trichromatic color vision, however
this is not a uniform condition. Under different genetic status, Old World
monkeys have routine trichromacy, while New World monkeys show a visual
polymorphism, characterized by obligatory male dichromacy. The ecological role of
this genetic difference still remains unclear, but some studies show that
dichromats and trichromats appear to have different abilities in detecting
colored targets against a background of leaves. The Cerrado's marmoset
(Callithrix penicillata) is known to forage in brightly illuminated (savanna-like
vegetation) and dimly illuminated (forests) environments, exploiting a high
amount of dark fruits. Hence, it seems to be a good model for studying the
differential advantages enjoyed by each color vision phenotype under natural
conditions. Our aim was to verify how the different phenotypes of Cerrado's
marmoset detect components of their diet, evaluating the existence of
differential phenotype advantages. Under two different light conditions, visual
signals of naturally consumed fruits were modeled against different backgrounds
scenarios. Even though dichromats and trichromats appear to be equally suited for
tasks involving fruit detection, phenotype differential advantages are observed
in this marmoset. In many conditions trichromats are predicted to perform better 
than dichromats, but under low ambient light dichromats manage to outperform
trichromats in some scenarios. Phenotypes that carry widely spaced and longer M/L
pigments enjoy the most advantage. These differential performances of
trichromatic phenotypes, together with overdominance selection, seem to explain
the maintenance of the tri-allelic system found in callitrichids.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jez.531 
PMID: 19296489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

