

2170. Endocr Dev. 2009;15:101-134. doi: 10.1159/000207612. Epub 2009 Mar 3.

Male fertility and strategies for fertility preservation following childhood
cancer treatment.

Mitchell RT, Saunders PTK, Sharpe RM, Kelnar CJH, Wallace WHB.

Infertility in the male is a potential complication of childhood cancer treatment
for long-term survivors. The risk is dependent primarily on the treatment used,
but also on the underlying disease. Chemotherapy (especially alkylating agents)
and radiotherapy, even in low doses, may damage the seminiferous epithelium and
impair spermatogenesis in both children and adults. Leydig cell function and
testosterone production are generally preserved after chemotherapy and low dose
radiotherapy, whilst larger doses of radiotherapy may result in hypogonadism.
Patients treated with potentially gonadotoxic treatments require regular
multidisciplinary follow-up including assessment of puberty and gonadal function.
Currently the only option available for fertility preservation in young males
treated for cancer is semen cryopreservation. For pre-pubertal patients,
techniques for fertility preservation remain theoretical and as yet unproven.
These include hormonal manipulation of the gonadal environment before treatment, 
germ cell transplantation and testis xenografting, which have all shown promise
in a variety of animal studies. Refinement of these techniques requires
investigations in relevant animal models. In the present chapter we include data 
which suggest that the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkey, a New World
primate, exhibits important parallels with human testicular development and may
help us to understand why the pre-pubertal testis is vulnerable to effects of
cytotoxic therapy on future fertility.

Copyright (c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000207612 
PMID: 19293606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

