

2173. Primates. 2009 Jul;50(3):253-60. doi: 10.1007/s10329-009-0137-2. Epub 2009 Mar
11.

Behavioral and hormonal response of common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, to two 
environmental conditions.

Barbosa MN(1), Mota MT.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Base de Pesquisa de Endocrinologia Comportamental,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Campus Universit√°rio, Caixa Postal
1511, Natal, RN, 59078-970, Brazil.

Captive animals of several species change their behavioral pattern and hormonal
profile in response to physical (for example, cage size and temperature) and
social (for example, group size and social isolation) modification of their
environment. To evaluate the effect of environmental change in captivity, the
affiliative (contact/proximity and allogrooming) and individual (approach,
leaving, scent mark, locomotion, and autogrooming) behavior of five family groups
of common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus, were recorded on weekdays (non-quiet)
and at the weekend (quiet) for two months. In addition, fecal samples were
collected for four of these groups to measure their cortisol levels under both
conditions. The behavioral pattern and hormonal profile of breeding pairs and
their offspring were modified by different management routines used in the
experimental conditions. We found that the animals spent more time in affiliative
interactions at the weekend, whereas on weekdays, they showed more individual
behaviors. Moreover, cortisol levels of breeding pairs and their offspring were
higher on weekdays, suggesting that common marmosets living in captivity react to
environmental modification by changing their behavioral and hormonal pattern.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-009-0137-2 
PMID: 19277829  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

