

2174. PLoS One. 2009;4(3):e4781. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004781. Epub 2009 Mar 10.

Contrast adaptation contributes to contrast-invariance of orientation tuning of
primate V1 cells.

Nowak LG(1), Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, UniversitÃ© Toulouse 3-CNRS,
Toulouse, France. Lionel.Nowak@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

BACKGROUND: Studies in rodents and carnivores have shown that orientation tuning 
width of single neurons does not change when stimulus contrast is modified.
However, in these studies, stimuli were presented for a relatively long duration 
(e. g., 4 seconds), making it possible that contrast adaptation contributed to
contrast-invariance of orientation tuning. Our first purpose was to determine, in
marmoset area V1, whether orientation tuning is still contrast-invariant with the
stimulation duration is comparable to that of a visual fixation.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We performed extracellular recordings and
examined orientation tuning of single-units using static sine-wave gratings that 
were flashed for 200 msec. Sixteen orientations and three contrast levels,
representing low, medium and high values in the range of effective contrasts for 
each neuron, were randomly intermixed. Contrast adaptation being a slow
phenomenon, cells did not have enough time to adapt to each contrast
individually. With this stimulation protocol, we found that the tuning width
obtained at intermediate contrast was reduced to 89% (median), and that at low
contrast to 76%, of that obtained at high contrast. Therefore, when probed with
briefly flashed stimuli, orientation tuning is not contrast-invariant in marmoset
V1. Our second purpose was to determine whether contrast adaptation contributes
to contrast-invariance of orientation tuning. Stationary gratings were presented,
as previously, for 200 msec with randomly varying orientations, but the contrast 
was kept constant within stimulation blocks lasting >20 sec, allowing for
adaptation to the single contrast in use. In these conditions, tuning widths
obtained at low contrast were still significantly less than at high contrast
(median 85%). However, tuning widths obtained with medium and high contrast
stimuli no longer differed significantly.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Orientation tuning does not appear to be
contrast-invariant when briefly flashed stimuli vary in both contrast and
orientation, but contrast adaptation partially restores contrast-invariance of
orientation tuning.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004781 
PMCID: PMC2652072
PMID: 19274097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

