

2177. J Neurosci. 2009 Feb 25;29(8):2553-62. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5359-08.2009.

Wide-dynamic-range forward suppression in marmoset inferior colliculus neurons is
generated centrally and accounts for perceptual masking.

Nelson PC(1), Smith ZM, Young ED.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Hearing and Balance, Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. pcnelson@jhu.edu

An organism's ability to detect and discriminate sensory inputs depends on the
recent stimulus history. For example, perceptual detection thresholds for a brief
tone can be elevated by as much as 50 dB when following a masking stimulus.
Previous work suggests that such forward masking is not a direct result of
peripheral neural adaptation; the central pathway apparently modifies the
representation in a way that further attenuates the input's response to short
probe signals. Here, we show that much of this transformation is complete by the 
level of the inferior colliculus (IC). Single-neuron extracellular responses were
recorded in the central nucleus of the awake marmoset IC. The threshold for a 20 
ms probe tone presented at best frequency was determined for various masker-probe
delays, over a range of masker sound pressure levels (SPLs) and frequencies. The 
most striking aspect of the data was the increased potency of forward maskers as 
their SPL was increased, despite the fact that the excitatory response to the
masker was often saturating or nonmonotonic over the same range of levels. This
led to probe thresholds at high masker levels that were almost always higher than
those observed in the auditory nerve. Probe threshold shifts were not usually
caused by a persistent excitatory response to the masker; instead we propose a
wide-dynamic-range inhibitory mechanism locked to sound offset as an explanation 
for several key aspects of the data. These findings further delineate the role of
subcortical auditory processing in the generation of a context-dependent
representation of ongoing acoustic scenes.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5359-08.2009 
PMCID: PMC2677200
PMID: 19244530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

