

2178. Neuroscience. 2009 May 5;160(2):434-51. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2009.02.028. 
Epub 2009 Feb 21.

Distribution and functional characterization of pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating polypeptide receptors in the brain of non-human primates.

Jolivel V(1), Basille M, Aubert N, de Jouffrey S, Ancian P, Le Bigot JF, Noack P,
Massonneau M, Fournier A, Vaudry H, Gonzalez BJ, Vaudry D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (U413), EA 4310,
Neuronal and Neuroendocrine Differentiation and Communication, European Institute
for Peptide Research (IFRMP23), University of Rouen, 76821 Mont-Saint-Aignan,
France.

The distribution and density of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating
polypeptide (PACAP) binding sites have been investigated in the brain of the
primates Jacchus callithrix (marmoset) and Macaca fascicularis (macaque) using
[(125)I]-PACAP27 as a radioligand. PACAP binding sites were widely expressed in
the brain of these two species with particularly high densities in the septum,
hypothalamus and habenula. A moderate density of recognition sites was seen in
all subdivisions of the cerebral cortex with a heterogenous distribution, the
highest concentrations occurring in layers I and VI while the underlying white
matter was almost devoid of binding sites. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed intense expression of the mRNAs encoding the 
short and hop-1 variants of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating
polypeptide-specific receptor (PAC1-R) in the cortex of both marmoset and
macaque, whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating polypeptide mutual receptor, subtype 1 (VPAC1-R) and
vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating
polypeptide mutual receptor, subtype 2 (VPAC2-R) mRNAs were expressed at a much
lower level. In situ hybridization histochemistry showed intense expression of
PAC1-R and weak expression of VPAC1-R mRNAs in layer IV of the cerebral cortex.
Incubation of cortical tissue slices with PACAP induced a dose-dependent
stimulation of cyclic AMP formation, indicating that PACAP binding sites
correspond to functional receptors. Moreover, treatment of primate cortical
slices with 100 nM PACAP significantly reduced the activity of caspase-3, a key
enzyme of the apoptotic cascade. The present results indicate that PACAP should
exert the same neuroprotective effect in the brain of primates as in rodents and 
suggest that PAC1-R agonists may have a therapeutic value to prevent neuronal
cell death after stroke or in specific neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2009.02.028 
PMID: 19236905  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

