

2184. Mol Pharmacol. 2009 May;75(5):1005-13. doi: 10.1124/mol.108.053702. Epub 2009 Feb
11.

Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate is a highly potent agonist for the human constitutive 
androstane receptor splice variant CAR2.

DeKeyser JG(1), Stagliano MC, Auerbach SS, Prabhu KS, Jones AD, Omiecinski CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Toxicology and Carcinogenesis, Department of Veterinary
and Biomedical Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA
16802, USA.

The human constitutive androstane receptor (CAR, CAR1) regulates the expression
of genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism in the liver. The CAR gene uses
multiple alternative splicing events during pre-mRNA processing, thereby
enhancing the CAR transcriptome. Previous reports have identified two prominent
human CAR variants, CAR2 and CAR3, that possess four- and five-amino acid
insertions in their ligand binding domains, respectively. Unlike the
constitutively active reference form of the receptor, we now demonstrate that
CAR2 is a ligand-activated receptor and comprises approximately 30% of the
reference transcript level in human liver tissues in human hepatocytes.
Furthermore, we identify the common plasticizer, di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
(DEHP), as a highly potent and uniquely selective agonist of CAR2. Results from
reporter transactivation and mammalian two-hybrid assays reveal that DEHP
activates CAR2 at low nanomolar concentrations, results further supported by
analysis of CAR target gene expression in primary human hepatocytes. In addition,
comparative genomic analyses show that the typical mouse, rat, and marmoset
models of DEHP toxicity cannot accurately profile potential human toxicity
because of these species' inability to generate a CAR2-like transcript. The
discovery that CAR2 is an ultimate human DEHP receptor identifies a novel pathway
modulating human DEHP toxicity with potential clinical implications for a subset 
of patients undergoing critical care medical interventions.

DOI: 10.1124/mol.108.053702 
PMCID: PMC2672810
PMID: 19211671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

