

2186. Hippocampus. 2009 Aug;19(8):739-52. doi: 10.1002/hipo.20555.

A molecular blueprint of gene expression in hippocampal subregions CA1, CA3, and 
DG is conserved in the brain of the common marmoset.

Datson NA(1), Morsink MC, Steenbergen PJ, Aubert Y, Schlumbohm C, Fuchs E, de
Kloet ER.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Pharmacology, Leiden/Amsterdam Center for Drug Research,
Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
datson_n@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl

Recent studies in rodents have shown that there are significant differences in
gene expression profiles between the hippocampal subregions CA1, CA3, and DG.
These differences in molecular make-up within the hippocampus most likely
underlie the differences in morphology, physiology, and vulnerability to insults 
that exist between the subregions of the hippocampus and are as such part of the 
basic molecular architecture of the hippocampus. The aim of this study was to
investigate at large scale whether these subregional differences in gene
expression are conserved in the hippocampus of a nonhuman primate, the common
marmoset. This study is very timely, given the recent development of the first
marmoset-specific DNA microarray, exclusively containing sequences targeting
transcripts derived from the marmoset hippocampus. Hippocampal subregions CA1,
CA3, and DG were isolated by laser microdissection and RNA was isolated,
amplified, and hybridized to the marmoset-specific microarray (EUMAMA) containing
more than 1,500 transcripts expressed in the adult marmoset hippocampus. Large
differences in expression were observed in particular between the DG region and
both pyramidal subregions. Moreover, the subregion-specific patterns of gene
expression showed a remarkable conservation with the rodent brain both in terms
of individual genes and degree of differential expression. To our knowledge, this
is the first study investigating large scale hippocampal gene expression in a
nonhuman primate. The obtained expression profiles not only provide novel data on
the expression of more than 1,500 transcripts per hippocampal subregion but also 
are of potential interest to neuroscientists interested in the role of the
different subregions in learning and memory in the nonhuman primate brain.

Copyright (c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.20555 
PMID: 19156849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

