

2192. J Neurosci. 2008 Dec 31;28(53):14467-80. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3086-08.2008.

Sensory responses during sleep in primate primary and secondary auditory cortex.

Issa EB(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025, USA.

Most sensory stimuli do not reach conscious perception during sleep. It has been 
thought that the thalamus prevents the relay of sensory information to cortex
during sleep, but the consequences for cortical responses to sensory signals in
this physiological state remain unclear. We recorded from two auditory cortical
areas downstream of the thalamus in naturally sleeping marmoset monkeys. Single
neurons in primary auditory cortex either increased or decreased their responses 
during sleep compared with wakefulness. In lateral belt, a secondary auditory
cortical area, the response modulation was also bidirectional and showed no clear
systematic depressive effect of sleep. When averaged across neurons, sound-evoked
activity in these two auditory cortical areas was surprisingly well preserved
during sleep. Neural responses to acoustic stimulation were present during both
slow-wave and rapid-eye movement sleep, were repeatedly observed over multiple
sleep cycles, and demonstrated similar discharge patterns to the responses
recorded during wakefulness in the same neuron. Our results suggest that the
thalamus is not as effective a gate for the flow of sensory information as
previously thought. At the cortical stage, a novel pattern of
activation/deactivation appears across neurons. Because the neural signal reaches
as far as secondary auditory cortex, this leaves open the possibility of altered 
sensory processing of auditory information during sleep.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3086-08.2008 
PMCID: PMC3844765
PMID: 19118181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

