

2195. Reproduction. 2009 Mar;137(3):517-25. doi: 10.1530/REP-08-0417. Epub 2008 Dec 23.

The hormonal induction of cervical remodeling in the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

Simon C(1), Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of Physiological Chemistry, Leipzig,
Germany.

Controversy still exists regarding the involvement of relaxin (RLX) in cervical
reorganization throughout parturition in the human, despite its well-known role
in facilitating extensive extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling in diverse
organs. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine the influence of
RLX and estrogen (E2) on the cervical tissue of the common marmoset monkey. Two
experimental designs were used: 1) in vivo analysis of the intracervical diameter
under locally applied RLX and 2) ovariectomized (ov) marmosets were treated
systemically with either recombinant human (rh) RLX, E2 or rhRLX+E2 to examine
their action on the cervix. In vivo-locally applied rhRLX induced a distinct and 
significant widening of the cervix (before: 4.8+/-1.1 mm versus after: 5.7+/-0.9 
mm in diameter; P<0.030, MV+/-S.E.M.). This widening effect was most pronounced
in animals without previous pregnancies. In vitro investigation of cervical
tissue showed significantly increased wet weights after all three hormone
treatments (E2: 0.27+/-0.07 g, RLX: 0.25+/-0.04 g, E2+RLX: 0.30+/-0.11 g; all
P<0.05; MV+/-S.E.M.) versus controls (0.10+/-0.04 g). Furthermore, morphological 
changes such as loosening of the connective tissue structure and decline in
collagen content, an increase in the number of eosinophils, increased the
expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP1) and MMP2, as well as gene and
protein expression of the RLX receptor RXFP1 could be detected in the cervical
tissue after all hormone treatments, compared with controls. In summary, RLX has 
a potent widening effect on the cervix of the common marmoset monkey. Although E2
is not required for this RLX effect, a combined application of E2 and RLX induced
the most prominent cervical ripening.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-08-0417 
PMID: 19106202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

