

2197. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2009 Jul;12(6):761-72. doi:
10.1017/S1461145708009723. Epub 2008 Dec 23.

Gene expression in the anterior cingulate cortex and amygdala of adolescent
marmoset monkeys following parental separations in infancy.

Law AJ(1), Pei Q, Feldon J, Pryce CR, Harrison PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Warneford Hospital, Oxford,
UK.

Early life adversities are risk factors for later mood and emotional disorders.
Repeated separation of infant marmosets from their parents provides a validated
primate model of depression vulnerability, producing in-vivo biochemical and
behavioural effects indicative of persistently altered stress reactivity and mild
anhedonia. Here we report the long-term effect (in adolescence) of this
intervention on the expression of synaptophysin, GAP-43, VGluT1, VGAT, MAP-2,
spinophilin, and 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors, in the anterior cingulate cortex
(ACC; supragenual and subgenual areas) and amygdala (lateral, basal and central
nuclei). These genes and regions are implicated in the response to stress or in
mood disorder. The profile of 5-HT1A receptor binding in ACC was affected by
early deprivation, notably in the subgenual region, with a decrease in deep
laminae but an increase in superficial laminae. Following early deprivation,
spinophilin mRNA was reduced in subgenual ACC. In the amygdala, no significant
effects of the manipulation were seen, but expression of several transcripts was 
sexually dimorphic. There were correlations between expression of some
transcripts and in-vivo measurements. The results show that early deprivation in 
a non-human primate has a selective long-term effect on expression of genes in
the ACC, particularly the subgenual area. The results differ from those reported 
in the hippocampus of the same animals, indicating the presence of limbic
region-specific long-term molecular responses to early life stress.

DOI: 10.1017/S1461145708009723 
PMCID: PMC2695425
PMID: 19102816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

