

2201. Clin Exp Immunol. 2009 Mar;155(3):514-22. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2249.2008.03843.x. 
Epub 2008 Dec 3.

Immunomodulatory activity of a methionine aminopeptidase-2 inhibitor on B cell
differentiation.

Priest RC(1), Spaull J, Buckton J, Grimley RL, Sims M, Binks M, Malhotra R.

Author information: 
(1)II CEDD, GlaxoSmithKline, Gunnel's Wood Road, Stevenage, Hertfordshire, UK.
richard.c.priest@gsk.com

Methionine aminopeptidase-2 (MetAP-2) inhibitors have potent anti-angiogenesis
activity and are being developed for the treatment of solid tumours. The recently
observed specific expression of MetAP-2 in germinal centre B cells suggests that 
it has a role in regulating B cell function. We have demonstrated a potent
MetAP-2-dependent inhibitory effect on the antibody secretion from B cell
receptor and CD40 co-stimulated primary human B cells in the presence of
interleukin-21. The effect of MetAP-2 inhibition on antibody secretion was due to
a block in differentiation of B cells into plasma cells. Immunohistochemical
analysis of germinal centres from human, mouse and marmoset spleen showed a
similar expression pattern of MetAP-2 in the marmoset and man, whereas mouse
spleen showed no detectable expression. In a marmoset, T dependent immunization
model, the MetAP-2 inhibitor suppressed an antigen-specific antibody response.
Furthermore, histological analysis showed loss of B cells in the spleen and
disrupted germinal centre formation. These results provide experimental evidence 
to support a novel role for MetAP-2 in immunomodulation. These effects of MetAP-2
are mediated by disruption of the germinal centre reaction and a block in the
differentiation of B cells into plasma cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2249.2008.03843.x 
PMCID: PMC2669528
PMID: 19068103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

