

2203. J Mol Med (Berl). 2009 Mar;87(3):273-86. doi: 10.1007/s00109-008-0421-4. Epub
2008 Dec 3.

Brain antigens in functionally distinct antigen-presenting cell populations in
cervical lymph nodes in MS and EAE.

van Zwam M(1), Huizinga R, Melief MJ, Wierenga-Wolf AF, van Meurs M, Voerman JS, 
Biber KP, Boddeke HW, HÃ¶pken UE, Meisel C, Meisel A, Bechmann I, Hintzen RQ, 't
Hart BA, Amor S, Laman JD, Boven LA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Drainage of central nervous system (CNS) antigens to the brain-draining cervical 
lymph nodes (CLN) is likely crucial in the initiation and control of autoimmune
responses during multiple sclerosis (MS). We demonstrate neuronal antigens within
CLN of MS patients. In monkeys and mice with experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) and in mouse models with non-inflammatory CNS damage, the
type and extent of CNS damage was associated with the frequencies of CNS antigens
within the cervical lymph nodes. In addition, CNS antigens drained to the
spinal-cord-draining lumbar lymph nodes. In human MS CLN, neuronal antigens were 
present in pro-inflammatory antigen-presenting cells (APC), whereas the majority 
of myelin-containing cells were anti-inflammatory. This may reflect a different
origin of the cells or different drainage mechanisms. Indeed, neuronal
antigen-containing cells in human CLN did not express the lymph node homing
receptor CCR7, whereas myelin antigen-containing cells in situ and in vitro did. 
Nevertheless, CLN from EAE-affected CCR7-deficient mice contained equal amounts
of myelin and neuronal antigens as wild-type mice. We conclude that the type and 
frequencies of CNS antigens within the CLN are determined by the type and extent 
of CNS damage. Furthermore, the presence of myelin and neuronal antigens in
functionally distinct APC populations within MS CLN suggests that differential
immune responses can be evoked.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-008-0421-4 
PMID: 19050840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

