

2211. J Comp Neurol. 2009 Jan 10;512(2):218-31. doi: 10.1002/cne.21893.

Expression of synaptic and phototransduction markers during photoreceptor
development in the marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Hendrickson A(1), Troilo D, Djajadi H, Possin D, Springer A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195, USA.

Marmoset photoreceptor development was studied to determine the expression
sequence for synaptic, opsin, and phototransduction proteins. All markers appear 
first in cones within the incipient foveal center or in rods at the foveal edge. 
Recoverin appears in cones across 70% of the retina at fetal day (Fd) 88,
indicating that it is expressed shortly after photoreceptors are generated.
Synaptic markers synaptophysin, SV2, glutamate vesicular transporter 1, and CTBP2
label foveal cones at Fd 88 and cones at the retinal edge around birth. Cones and
rods have distinctly different patterns of synaptic protein and opsin expression.
Synaptic markers are expressed first in cones, with a considerable delay before
they appear in rods at the same eccentricity. Cones express synaptic markers 2-3 
weeks before they express opsin, but rods express opsin 2-4 weeks before rod
synaptic marker labeling is detected. Medium/long-wavelength-selective (M&L)
opsin appears in foveal cones and rod opsin in rods around the fovea at Fd 100.
Very few cones expressing short-wavelength-selective (S) opsin are found in the
Fd 105 fovea. Across peripheral retina, opsin appears first in rods, followed
about 1 week later by M&L cone opsin. S cone opsin appears last, and all opsins
reach the retinal edge by 1 week after birth. Cone transducin and rod arrestin
are expressed concurrently with opsin, but cone arrestin appears slightly later. 
Marmoset photoreceptor development differs from that in Macaca and humans. It
starts relatively late, at 56% gestation, compared with Macaca at 32% gestation. 
The marmoset opsin expression sequence is also different from that of either
Macaca or human.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21893 
PMCID: PMC3089894
PMID: 19003975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

