

2215. J Physiol. 2008 Dec 15;586(24):5947-67. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2008.161893. Epub
2008 Oct 27.

Transmission of blue (S) cone signals through the primate lateral geniculate
nucleus.

Tailby C(1), Szmajda BA, Buz√°s P, Lee BB, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Corner of Keppel and Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

This study concerns the transmission of short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cone
signals through the primate dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. The principal cell
classes, magnocellular (MC) and parvocellular (PC), are traditionally segregated 
into on- and off-subtypes on the basis of the sign of their response to luminance
variation. Cells dominated by input from S-cones ('blue-on and blue-off') are
less frequently encountered and their properties are less well understood. Here
we characterize the spatial and chromatic properties of a large sample of blue-on
and blue-off neurons and contrast them with those of PC and MC neurons. The
results confirm that blue-on and blue-off cells have larger receptive fields than
PC and MC neurons at equivalent eccentricities. Relative to blue-on cells,
blue-off cells are less sensitive to S-cone contrast, have larger receptive
fields, and show more low-pass spatial frequency tuning. Thus, blue-on and
blue-off neurons lack the functional symmetry characteristic of on- and
off-subtypes in the MC and PC pathways. The majority of MC and PC cells received 
no detectible input from S-cones. Where present, input from S-cones tended to
provide weak inhibition to PC cells. All cell types showed evidence of a
suppressive extra-classical receptive field driven largely or exclusively by
ML-cones. These data indicate that S-cone signals are isolated to supply the
classical receptive field mechanisms of blue-on and blue-off cells in the LGN,
and that the low spatial precision of S-cone vision has origins in both classical
and extraclassical receptive field properties of subcortical pathways.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2008.161893 
PMCID: PMC2655435
PMID: 18955378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

