

2216. Swiss Med Wkly. 2008 Nov 29;138(47-48):692-707. doi: /aop/smw-aop12283.

Autoantibodies in inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the central nervous
system.

Lalive PH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Division of Neurology, Geneva University
Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland. patrice.lalive@hcuge.ch

The determination of disease-specific autoantibodies (Abs) is a challenge in any 
autoimmune disease. The significance of Abs detected in inflammatory
demyelinating diseases (IDD) of the central nervous system (CNS), such as
multiple sclerosis (MS), is still unclear. Histopathological reports have
demonstrated that a humoral (Abs)-mediated pattern of demyelination is detected
in >50% of MS patients and is consistently associated with active demyelination. 
The observation that these patients specifically respond to plasmapheresis
reinforces the hypothesis of a specific humoral MS subtype. One of the most
intensively studied antigen targets in MS is a glycoprotein of the myelin sheath 
called the Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein (MOG). Recent advances have shown 
that epitope specificity of MOG is crucial in terms of specificity of the Ab
response. Several other auto-Abs, including anti-myelin, oligodendrocyte and
neuronal Abs have been studied in MS. These auto-Abs may have pathogenic or
protective properties, but could also have no functional role. Recently, the
demonstration of a highly specific auto-Ab in an IDD of the CNS called
neuromyelitis optica (NMO), directed against the aquaporin-4 (AQP-4) located at
the blood brain barrier (BBB), has allowed a refinement of the diagnostic
criteria of NMO and classification of this disease as an autoimmune
channelopathy. These recent advances have reinforced the interest in tracking the
role of the humoral response in the different IDD of the CNS.

DOI: /aop/smw-aop12283 
PMID: 18951202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

