

2218. Proc Biol Sci. 2009 Feb 7;276(1656):389-99. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2008.1374.

Reproductive skew in female common marmosets: what can proximate mechanisms tell 
us about ultimate causes?

Saltzman W(1), Digby LJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Common marmosets are cooperatively breeding monkeys that exhibit high
reproductive skew: most subordinate females fail to reproduce, while others
attempt to breed but produce very few surviving infants. An extensive dataset on 
the mechanisms limiting reproduction in laboratory-housed and free living
subordinate females provides unique insights into the causes of reproductive
skew. Non-breeding adult females undergo suppression of ovulation and inhibition 
of sexual behaviour; however, they receive little or no aggression or mating
interference by dominants and do not exhibit behavioural or physiological signs
of stress. Breeding subordinate females receive comparable amounts of aggression 
to non-breeding females but are able to conceive, gestate and lactate normally.
In groups containing two breeding females,however, both dominant and subordinate 
breeders kill one another's infants. These findings suggest that preconception
reproductive suppression is not imposed on subordinate females by dominants, at a
proximate level, but is instead self-imposed by most subordinates, consistent
with restraint models of reproductive skew. In contrast to restraint models,
however, this self-suppression probably evolved not in response to the threat of 
eviction by dominant females but in response to the threat of infanticide.
Thus,reproductive skew in this species appears to be generated predominantly by
subordinate self-restraint, in a proximate sense, but ultimately by dominant
control over subordinates' reproductive attempts.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2008.1374 
PMCID: PMC2592602
PMID: 18945663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

