

222. Vet Pathol. 2021 Jan;58(1):147-160. doi: 10.1177/0300985820971752. Epub 2020 Nov 
19.

Urogenital Lesions in Nonhuman Primates at 2 National Primate Research Centers.

Kirejczyk S(1), Pinelli C(1)(2), Gonzalez O(3), Kumar S(3), Dick E Jr(3), Gumber 
S(1).

Author information: 
(1)1371Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)*Current address: Department of Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology,
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 1161 21st Ave South MCN AA-6206, Nashville,
TN 37232, USA.
(3)7075Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Given their genetic and anatomic similarities to humans, nonhuman primates (NHPs)
may serve as animal models for urogenital diseases of humans. The purpose of this
study was to examine the frequency of spontaneous urogenital lesions occurring
over a 30-year period at the Yerkes and Southwest National Primate Research
Centers and to compare and contrast lesions occurring in Old World versus New
World primates. Lesions occurring in the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), baboon
(Papio spp.), rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), cynomolgus macaque (Macaca
fascicularis), pig-tailed macaque (Macaca nemestrina), sooty mangabey (Cercocebus
atys), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), cotton-top tamarin (Sanguinus
oedipus), and squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) are discussed. The most common
lesions of the kidney were medullary amyloidosis, renal cysts, renal tubular
degeneration, glomerulonephritis or glomerulopathy, nephritis, nephrocalcinosis, 
pyelonephritis, and hydronephrosis. Specific causes of renal tubular disease
included pigmentary nephrosis and tubular lipidosis. Renal tumors, including
renal adenoma and carcinoma, lymphoma, and nephroblastoma, were infrequent
diagnoses in all species. Endometriosis was the most frequently diagnosed lesion 
of the female genital tract. Of the animals examined in this study, it was most
frequent in Old World primates. Leiomyoma was the most common uterine tumor.
Granulosa cell tumor was the most frequently observed neoplasm of the ovaries,
followed by teratoma. Of animals included in the study, most ovarian tumors
occurred in baboons. Neoplasms of the male reproductive tract included
interstitial cell tumor, seminoma, penile squamous cell carcinoma, penile
papilloma, and histiocytoma. In New World monkeys, renal lesions were reported
more frequently than genital lesions.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985820971752 
PMCID: PMC7903448
PMID: 33208023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

