

2223. Primates. 2008 Oct;49(4):283-7. doi: 10.1007/s10329-008-0105-2. Epub 2008 Oct 8.

Histopathology findings in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus Linnaeus, 1758)
with chronic weight loss associated with bile tract obstruction by infestation
with Platynosomum (Loos, 1907).

Sousa MB(1), Le√£o AC, Coutinho JF, de Oliveira Ramos AM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande, Caixa Postal, 
1511, Natal, RN 59078-970, Brazil. mdesousa@cb.ufrn.br

Chronic weight loss in marmosets is often associated with wasting marmoset
syndrome (WMS), an important disease that occurs in callitrichid colonies around 
the world. Even though its etiology is very difficult to determine, particular
variables, such as weight loss, diarrhea and alopecia, associated or not with
infestation in the pancreatic ducts with Trichospirura leptossoma (Nematoda:
Thelazioidea), seem to be linked with the syndrome. This study investigated the
histopathology of the lungs, duodenum, liver, gallbladder, extrahepatic bile
ducts and pancreatic ducts of six common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) suffering
from severe non-diarrheic weight loss. Three individuals died naturally and the
other three were euthanized. Microscopic findings showed the presence of adult
flukes (Platynosomum) in the liver. These flukes, which provoke common infection 
in cats, were also observed inside the gallbladder as well as in the intra and
extrahepatic bile ducts in common marmosets. Portal fibrosis was observed in two 
animals, which developed chronic fibrosing hepatopathy (biliary pattern, grade
3). The disease progresses without diarrhea and without pancreatic lesions or
infestation. With the progression, the animals presented with ascending
cholangitis, cholestasis and portal fibrosis, sometimes culminating in secondary 
biliary cirrhosis. Therefore, this infirmity, associated with chronic weight loss
in common marmosets, could be another etiological factor linked with WMS.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-008-0105-2 
PMID: 18841441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

