

2225. J Hum Evol. 2008 Dec;55(6):1086-95. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2008.07.010. Epub 2008 
Sep 21.

Evolutionary modifications of human milk composition: evidence from long-chain
polyunsaturated fatty acid composition of anthropoid milks.

Milligan LA(1), Bazinet RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064,
USA. milliga@ucsc.edu

Brain growth in mammals is associated with increased accretion of long-chain
polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) in brain phospholipids. The period of
maximum accumulation is during the brain growth spurt. Humans have a perinatal
brain growth spurt, selectively accumulating docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and other
LCPUFA from the third trimester through the second year of life. The emphasis on 
rapid postnatal brain growth and LCPUFA transfer during lactation has led to the 
suggestion that human milk LCPUFA composition may be unique. Our study tests this
hypothesis by determining fatty acid composition for 11 species of captive
anthropoids (n=53; Callithrix jacchus, Cebus apella, Gorilla gorilla, Hylobates
lar, Leontopithecus rosalia, Macaca mulatta, Pan troglodytes, Pan paniscus, Pongo
pygmaeus, Saimiri boliviensis, and Symphalangus syndactylus). Results are
compared to previously published data on five species of wild anthropoids (n=28; 
Alouatta paliatta, Callithrix jacchus, Gorilla beringei, Leontopithecus rosalia, 
and Macaca sinica) and human milk fatty acid profiles. Milk LCPUFA profiles of
captive anthropoids (consuming diets with a preformed source of DHA) are similar 
to milk from women on a Western diet, and those of wild anthropoids are similar
to milk from vegan women. Collectively, the range of DHA percent composition
values from nonhuman anthropoid milks (0.03-1.1) is nearly identical to that from
a cross-cultural analysis of human milk (0.06-1.4). Humans do not appear to be
unique in their ability to secrete LCPUFA in milk but may be unique in their
access to dietary LCPUFA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2008.07.010 
PMID: 18809203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

