

2227. Endocrinology. 2008 Dec;149(12):6343-55. doi: 10.1210/en.2008-0615. Epub 2008 Aug
28.

Effects of prenatal dexamethasone treatment on physical growth, pituitary-adrenal
hormones, and performance of motor, motivational, and cognitive tasks in juvenile
and adolescent common marmoset monkeys.

Hauser J(1), Knapman A, ZÃ¼rcher NR, Pilloud S, Maier C, Diaz-Heijtz R, Forssberg 
H, Dettling A, Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

Synthetic glucocorticoids such as dexamethasone (DEX) are commonly used to
prevent respiratory distress syndrome in preterm infants, but there is emerging
evidence of subsequent neurobehavioral abnormalities (e.g. problems with
inattention/hyperactivity). In the present study, we exposed pregnant common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus, primates) to daily repeated DEX (5 mg/kg by mouth)
during either early (d 42-48) or late (d 90-96) pregnancy (gestation period of
144 days). Relative to control, and with a longitudinal design, we investigated
DEX effects in offspring in terms of physical growth, plasma ACTH and cortisol
titers, social and maintenance behaviors, skilled motor reaching, motivation for 
palatable reward, and learning between infancy and adolescence. Early DEX
resulted in reduced sociability in infants and increased motivation for palatable
reward in adolescents. Late DEX resulted in a mild transient increase in
knee-heel length in infants and enhanced reversal learning of stimulus-reward
association in adolescents. There was no effect of either early or late DEX on
basal plasma ACTH or cortisol titers. Both treatments resulted in impaired
skilled motor reaching in juveniles, which attenuated in early DEX but persisted 
in late DEX across test sessions. The increased palatable-reward motivation and
decreased social motivation observed in early DEX subjects provide experimental
support for the clinical reports that prenatal glucocorticoid treatment impairs
social development and predisposes to metabolic syndrome. These novel primate
findings indicate that fetal glucocorticoid overexposure can lead to abnormal
development of motor, affective, and cognitive behaviors. Importantly, the
outcome is highly dependent upon the timing of glucocorticoid overexposure.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2008-0615 
PMID: 18755792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

