

2228. Cereb Cortex. 2009 Apr;19(4):963-81. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhn142. Epub 2008 Aug
28.

Anatomical evidence for classical and extra-classical receptive field completion 
across the discontinuous horizontal meridian representation of primate area V2.

Jeffs J(1), Ichida JM, Federer F, Angelucci A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Science, Moran Eye Center, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, 84132, USA.

In primates, a split of the horizontal meridian (HM) representation at the V2
rostral border divides this area into dorsal (V2d) and ventral (V2v) halves
(representing lower and upper visual quadrants, respectively), causing
retinotopically neighboring loci across the HM to be distant within V2. How is
perceptual continuity maintained across this discontinuous HM representation?
Injections of neuroanatomical tracers in marmoset V2d demonstrated that cells
near the V2d rostral border can maintain retinotopic continuity within their
classical and extra-classical receptive field (RF), by making both local and
long-range intra- and interareal connections with ventral cortex representing the
upper visual quadrant. V2d neurons located <0.9-1.3 mm from the V2d rostral
border, whose RFs presumably do not cross the HM, make nonretinotopic horizontal 
connections with V2v neurons in the supra- and infragranular layers. V2d neurons 
located <0.6-0.9 mm from the border, whose RFs presumably cross the HM, in
addition make retinotopic local connections with V2v neurons in layer 4. V2d
neurons also make interareal connections with upper visual field regions of
extrastriate cortex, but not of MT or MTc outside the foveal representation.
Labeled connections in ventral cortex appear to represent the "missing" portion
of the connectional fields in V2d across the HM. We conclude that connections
between dorsal and ventral cortex can create visual field continuity within a
second-order discontinuous visual topography.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhn142 
PMCID: PMC2722794
PMID: 18755777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

