

2231. Rev Neurosci. 2008;19(2-3):187-201.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a potential animal model for studying
psychological disorders associated with high and low responsiveness of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.

Galvão-Coelho NL(1), Silva HP, Leão Ade C, de Sousa MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Graduate Program in Psychobiology, Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN, Brazil.

Social non-human primates are potential animal models for studying changes in
social dynamics because they build strong emotional bonds inside the group, much 
as do humans. The common marmoset, a small neotropical primate, is a suitable
model because of its low maintenance cost and high reproductive output in
captivity associated with the presence of affiliative relationships among the
members of the social group and pair bond formation. The paradigm of involuntary 
separation is frequently used to study the physiological repercussions of social 
deprivation. In this review we point out the advantages of using social non-human
primates as animal models for studying psychological disorders. We focused on New
World primates, adding some original findings for common marmosets. Forty-eight
adult individuals (24 females) were monitored over 25 days in two situations:
baseline phase and separation phase. Variability in basal cortisol levels was
recorded for both males and females, and three types of cortisol profile were
drawn for the subjects in this population: high, medium and low. Basal cortisol
levels were a predictor of hormonal reactivity to social separation. The animals 
with low and high cortisol levels were hyper- and hyporeactive to separation,
respectively. Significant positive correlations between hormonal reactivity and
scent-marking behavior were found for low profile males and females. These
findings show that common marmosets display behavioral changes during challenging
situations and different cortisol profiles within a population. Thus, this
species appears to be a suitable animal model for studying mental disorders
associated with high and low responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
axis.


PMID: 18751524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

