

2235. Mol Cell Biochem. 2008 Dec;319(1-2):181-7. doi: 10.1007/s11010-008-9891-5. Epub
2008 Aug 15.

Construction of a high-performance human fetal liver-derived lentiviral cDNA
library.

Kurita R(1), Oikawa T, Okada M, Yokoo T, Kurihara Y, Honda Y, Kageyama R, Suehiro
Y, Okazaki T, Iga M, Miyoshi H, Tani K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu
University, Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka, Japan.

The gene transduction method is a very powerful tool, not only in basic science
but also in clinical medicine. Regenerative medicine is one field that has close 
connection with both basic and clinical. Recently, it has been reported that
induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells can be produced from somatic cells by a
three or four gene transduction. We have also recently reported that lentiviral
gene transfer of the tal1/scl gene can efficiently differentiate non-human
primate common marmoset ES cells into hematopoietic cells without the support of 
stromal cells. In this study, we constructed a high-performance human fetal
liver-derived lentiviral expression library, which contains a high number of
individual clones, in order to develop a very helpful tool for understanding
early hematopoiesis and/or hepatocytosis for future regenerative medicine. Our
lentiviral cDNA library consisted of more than 8 x 10(7) individual clones, and
their average insert size was >2 kb. DNA sequence analysis for each individual
inserted cDNAs revealed that >60% contained the full-length protein-coding
regions for many genes including cytokine receptors, cytoplasmic proteins,
protein inhibitors, and nuclear factors. The transduction efficiency on 293T
cells was 100% and the average size of an integrated cDNA was ~1.1 kb. These
results suggest that our lentiviral human fetal liver cDNA expression library
could be a very helpful tool for accelerating the discovery of novel genes that
are involved in early hematopoiesis and hepatopoiesis and to make the use of iPS 
cells more efficient in the field of regenerative medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-008-9891-5 
PMID: 18709335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

