

2240. Cereb Cortex. 2009 Apr;19(4):899-906. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhn137. Epub 2008 Aug
9.

The role of the orbitofrontal cortex and medial striatum in the regulation of
prepotent responses to food rewards.

Man MS(1), Clarke HF, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, UK. msm36@cam.ac.uk

An impairment in learning to inhibit prepotent responses to positive stimuli is
associated with damage to the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in rats, monkeys, and
humans performing discrimination reversal, extinction, and detour reaching tasks.
In contrast, a recent study showed that OFC-lesioned rhesus monkeys could learn
to select the smaller of 2 quantities of food reward in order to receive the
larger reward, at an equivalent rate to controls, despite the requirement to
inhibit a prepotent response. Given this result, the aim of the present study was
to further specify the contexts under which the OFC regulates responding and to
identify additional components of limbic circuitry that contribute to such
regulation. Marmosets with lesions of the OFC and medial striatum (MS), but not
the amygdala, made more prepotent responses to a clear Perspex box containing
high incentive food before learning to choose the box containing low incentive
food, to obtain reward. However, having learned the incongruent incentive
discrimination OFC- and MS-lesioned monkeys were impaired upon reversal of the
reward contingencies, repeatedly selecting the previously rewarded low incentive 
object. These findings identify the critical contribution of the OFC and MS in
the regulation of responding by affective cues.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhn137 
PMID: 18689858  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

