

2249. Behav Brain Res. 2008 Dec 12;194(2):152-61. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2008.06.035. Epub 
2008 Jul 6.

A novel adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor antagonist ASP5854 ameliorates motor
impairment in MPTP-treated marmosets: comparison with existing anti-Parkinson's
disease drugs.

Mihara T(1), Iwashita A, Matsuoka N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Pharmacology Research Labs, Astellas Pharma Inc., 
21 Miyukigaoka, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8585, Japan. takuma.mihara@jp.astellas.com

Recent evidence indicates that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists hold
therapeutic potential for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). A study on
the novel adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor dual antagonist
5-[5-amino-3-(4-fluorophenyl)pyrazin-2-yl]-1-isopropylpyridine-2(1H)-one
(ASP5854) showed it to be effective in various rodents models of PD and
cognition. In the present study, we further investigated the potential of ASP5854
as an anti-PD drug using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated common marmosets, which is a highly predictive model of clinical
efficacy in PD, and compared its effect with those of existing anti-PD drugs.
ASP5854 significantly and dose-dependently improved the total motor disability
score for 7h at doses higher than 1mg/kg, and significantly increased total
locomotor activity at doses higher than 0.1mg/kg without adverse effects.
l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine+benserazide and bromocriptine also significantly
improved the motor disability score and the hypolocomotion caused by MPTP
treatment in a dose-dependent fashion. This amelioration was significant at 32+8 
and 10-32 mg/kg, respectively, although bromocriptine induced severe emesis.
Trihexiphenidyl also significantly improved the total motor disability score at
doses of 10-32 mg/kg; however, while a significant increase in the total
locomotor activity was observed at 10mg/kg, the drug induced ataxia-like behavior
at 32 mg/kg. On the other hand, neither selegiline nor amantadine improved the
total motor disability and hypolocomotion. These data substantiate the evidence
that the novel adenosine antagonist ASP5854 exerts comparable anti-PD activity
with existing anti-PD drugs, which indicates that ASP5854 might have potential to
ameliorate motor deficits in PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2008.06.035 
PMID: 18657577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

