

2250. Neurobiol Dis. 2008 Oct;32(1):66-80. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.06.014. Epub 2008
Jul 3.

PACAP prevents toxicity induced by cisplatin in rat and primate neurons but not
in proliferating ovary cells: involvement of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway.

Aubert N(1), Vaudry D, Falluel-Morel A, Desfeux A, Fisch C, Ancian P, de Jouffrey
S, Le Bigot JF, Couvineau A, Laburthe M, Fournier A, Laudenbach V, Vaudry H,
Gonzalez BJ.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U413, Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neuroendocrinology, European
Institute for Peptide Research (IFRMP 23), University of Rouen,
Mont-Saint-Aignan, France.

Cisplatin is a chemotherapeutic agent whose use is limited by side effects
including neuropathies. In proliferating cells, toxic action of cisplatin is
based on DNA interactions, while, in quiescent cells, it can induce apoptosis by 
interacting with proteins. In the present study, we compared cytotoxic mechanisms
activated by cisplatin in primate and rodent neurons and in ovary cells in order 
to determine whether the anti-apoptotic peptide PACAP could selectively reduce
neurotoxicity. In quiescent neurons, JNK and sphingomyelinase inhibitors blocked 
cisplatin-induced cell death. Toxicity was associated with DNA laddering,
caspase-3 and -9 activations and Bax induction. These effects were prevented by
PACAP. In proliferating cells, cisplatin activated caspase-8 but had no effect on
caspase-9. PACAP exerted no protective effect. These data indicate that cisplatin
activates distinct apoptotic pathways in quiescent neurons and proliferating
cells and that PACAP may reduce neurotoxicity of cisplatin without affecting its 
chemotherapeutic efficacy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2008.06.014 
PMID: 18652895  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

