

2252. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Sep 20;510(3):251-68. doi: 10.1002/cne.21783.

Retinal ganglion cell inputs to the koniocellular pathway.

Szmajda BA(1), Gr√ºnert U, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, VIC, Australia.

To understand the transmission of sensory signals in visual pathways we studied
the morphology and central projection of ganglion cell populations in marmoset
monkeys. Retinal ganglion cells were labeled by photofilling following injections
of retrograde tracer in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), or by intracellular
injection with neurobiotin. Ganglion cell morphology was analyzed using
hierarchical cluster analysis. In addition to midget and parasol ganglion cells, 
this method distinguished three main clusters of wide-field cells that correspond
to small bistratified, sparse, and broad thorny cells identified previously. The 
small bistratified and sparse cells occupy neighboring positions on the
hierarchical (linkage distance) tree. These cell types are presumed to carry
signals originating in short-wavelength sensitive (S or "blue") cones in the
retina. The linkage distance from these putative S-cone pathway ganglion cells to
other wide-field cells is similar to the linkage distance from midget cells to
parasol cells, suggesting that S-cone cells form a distinct functional subgroup
of ganglion cells. Small bistratified cells and large sparse cells were the most 
commonly labeled wide-field cells following LGN injections in koniocellular layer
K3. This is consistent with physiological evidence that the role of this layer
includes transmission of S-cone signals to the visual cortex. Other wide-field
cell types were also labeled following injections including K3, and other
koniocellular LGN layers; these cell types may correspond to "non-blue
koniocellular" receptive fields recorded in physiological studies.

Copyright 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21783 
PMID: 18626946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

