

2255. Acta Trop. 2008 Aug;107(2):179-85. doi: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2008.05.020. Epub
2008 May 29.

Natural Plasmodium infections in Brazilian wild monkeys: reservoirs for human
infections?

Duarte AM(1), Malafronte Rdos S, Cerutti C Jr, Curado I, de Paiva BR, Maeda AY,
Yamasaki T, Summa ME, Neves Ddo V, de Oliveira SG, Gomes Ade C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Bioquímica e Biologia Molecular, Superintendência de Controle
de Endemias (SUCEN), Secretaria de Estado da Saúde, Rua Paula Souza 166, São
Paulo, Brazil. amrcd@usp.br

Four hundred and forty-eight samples of total blood from wild monkeys living in
areas where human autochthonous malaria cases have been reported were screened
for the presence of Plasmodium using microscopy and PCR analysis. Samples came
from the following distinct ecological areas of Brazil: Atlantic forest (N=140), 
semideciduous Atlantic forest (N=257) and Cerrado (a savannah-like habitat)
(N=51). Thick and thin blood smears of each specimen were examined and Plasmodium
infection was screened by multiplex polymerase chain reaction (multiplex PCR).
The frequency of Plasmodium infections detected by PCR in Alouatta guariba
clamitans in the São Paulo Atlantic forest was 11.3% or 8/71 (5.6% for Plasmodium
malariae and 5.6% for Plasmodium vivax) and one specimen was positive for
Plasmodium falciparum (1.4%); Callithrix sp. (N=30) and Cebus apella (N=39)
specimens were negative by PCR tests. Microscopy analysis was negative for all
specimens from the Atlantic forest. The positivity rate for Alouatta caraya from 
semideciduous Atlantic forest was 6.8% (16/235) in the PCR tests (5.5, 0.8 and
0.4% for P. malariae, P. falciparum and P. vivax, respectively), while C. apella 
specimens were negative. Parasitological examination of the samples using thick
smears revealed Plasmodium sp. infections in only seven specimens, which had few 
parasites (3.0%). Monkeys from the Cerrado (a savannah-like habitat) (42
specimens of A. caraya, 5 of Callithrix jacchus and 4 of C. apella) were negative
in both tests. The parasitological prevalence of P. vivax and P. malariae in wild
monkeys from Atlantic forest and semideciduous Atlantic forest and the finding of
a positive result for P. falciparum in Alouatta from both types of forest support
the hypothesis that monkeys belonging to this genus could be a potential
reservoir. Furthermore, these findings raise the question of the relationship
between simian and autochthonous human malaria in extra-Amazonian regions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2008.05.020 
PMID: 18620330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

