

2258. J Virol. 2008 Sep;82(18):9035-42. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00674-08. Epub 2008 Jul 9.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) as a nonhuman primate model to assess the
virulence of eastern equine encephalitis virus strains.

Adams AP(1), Aronson JF, Tardif SD, Patterson JL, Brasky KM, Geiger R, de la
Garza M, Carrion R Jr, Weaver SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Sealy Center for Vaccine Development, University
of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555, USA.

Eastern equine encephalitis virus (EEEV) produces the most severe human arboviral
disease in North America (NA) and is a potential biological weapon. However,
genetically and antigenically distinct strains from South America (SA) have
seldom been associated with human disease or mortality despite serological
evidence of infection. Because mice and other small rodents do not respond
differently to the NA versus SA viruses like humans, we tested common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) by using intranasal infection and monitoring for weight
loss, fever, anorexia, depression, and neurologic signs. The NA EEEV-infected
animals either died or were euthanized on day 4 or 5 after infection due to
anorexia and neurologic signs, but the SA EEEV-infected animals remained healthy 
and survived. The SA EEEV-infected animals developed peak viremia titers of 2.8
to 3.1 log(10) PFU/ml on day 2 or 4 after infection, but there was no detectable 
viremia in the NA EEEV-infected animals. In contrast, virus was detected in the
brain, liver, and muscle of the NA EEEV-infected animals at the time of
euthanasia or death. Similar to the brain lesions described for human EEE, the NA
EEEV-infected animals developed meningoencephalitis in the cerebral cortex with
some perivascular hemorrhages. The findings of this study identify the common
marmoset as a useful model of human EEE for testing antiviral drugs and vaccine
candidates and highlight their potential for corroborating epidemiological
evidence that some, if not all, SA EEEV strains are attenuated for humans.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00674-08 
PMCID: PMC2546911
PMID: 18614636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

