

2264. PLoS Genet. 2008 Jun 20;4(6):e1000100. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000100.

An evolutionarily conserved sexual signature in the primate brain.

Reinius B(1), Saetre P, Leonard JA, Blekhman R, Merino-Martinez R, Gilad Y, Jazin
E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Development and Genetics, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

The question of a potential biological sexual signature in the human brain is a
heavily disputed subject. In order to provide further insight into this issue, we
used an evolutionary approach to identify genes with sex differences in brain
expression level among primates. We reasoned that expression patterns important
to uphold key male and female characteristics may be conserved during evolution. 
We selected cortex for our studies because this specific brain region is
responsible for many higher behavioral functions. We compared gene expression
profiles in the occipital cortex of male and female humans (Homo sapiens, a great
ape) and cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis, an old world monkey), two
catarrhine species that show abundant morphological sexual dimorphism, as well as
in common marmosets (Callithrix Jacchus, a new world monkey) which are relatively
sexually monomorphic. We identified hundreds of genes with sex-biased expression 
patterns in humans and macaques, while fewer than ten were differentially
expressed between the sexes in marmosets. In primates, a general rule is that
many of the morphological and behavioral sexual dimorphisms seen in polygamous
species, such as macaques, are typically less pronounced in monogamous species
such as the marmosets. Our observations suggest that this correlation may also be
reflected in the extent of sex-biased gene expression in the brain. We identified
85 genes with common sex-biased expression, in both human and macaque and 2
genes, X inactivation-specific transcript (XIST) and Heat shock factor binding
protein 1 (HSBP1), that were consistently sex-biased in the female direction in
human, macaque, and marmoset. These observations imply a conserved signature of
sexual gene expression dimorphism in cortex of primates. Further, we found that
the coding region of female-biased genes is more evolutionarily constrained
compared to the coding region of both male-biased and non sex-biased brain
expressed genes. We found genes with conserved sexual gene expression dimorphism 
in the occipital cortex of humans, cynomolgus macaques, and common marmosets.
Genes within sexual expression profiles may underlie important functional
differences between the sexes, with possible importance during primate evolution.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000100 
PMCID: PMC2413013
PMID: 18566661  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

