

2271. J Neurophysiol. 2008 Aug;100(2):888-906. doi: 10.1152/jn.00884.2007. Epub 2008
Jun 4.

Neural response properties of primary, rostral, and rostrotemporal core fields in
the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys.

Bendor D(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University, 720 Rutland Avenue, Traylor 410, Baltimore, MD
21205, USA.

The core region of primate auditory cortex contains a primary and two
primary-like fields (AI, primary auditory cortex; R, rostral field; RT,
rostrotemporal field). Although it is reasonable to assume that multiple core
fields provide an advantage for auditory processing over a single primary field, 
the differential roles these fields play and whether they form a functional
pathway collectively such as for the processing of spectral or temporal
information are unknown. In this report we compare the response properties of
neurons in the three core fields to pure tones and sinusoidally amplitude
modulated tones in awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). The main
observations are as follows. (1) All three fields are responsive to spectrally
narrowband sounds and are tonotopically organized. (2) Field AI responds more
strongly to pure tones than fields R and RT. (3) Field RT neurons have lower best
sound levels than those of neurons in fields AI and R. In addition, rate-level
functions in field RT are more commonly nonmonotonic than in fields AI and R. (4)
Neurons in fields RT and R have longer minimum latencies than those of field AI
neurons. (5) Fields RT and R have poorer stimulus synchronization than that of
field AI to amplitude-modulated tones. (6) Between the three core fields the more
rostral regions (R and RT) have narrower firing-rate-based modulation transfer
functions than that of AI. This effect was seen only for the nonsynchronized
neurons. Synchronized neurons showed no such trend.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00884.2007 
PMCID: PMC2525707
PMID: 18525020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

