

2277. J Reprod Immunol. 2008 Jul;78(2):125-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jri.2008.03.005. Epub
2008 May 19.

Expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase in the rhesus monkey and common
marmoset.

Drenzek JG(1), Breburda EE, Burleigh DW, Bondarenko GI, Grendell RL, Golos TG.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
1223 Capitol Court, Madison, WI 53715, USA.

Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) catalyzes the initial and rate-limiting step of
tryptophan degradation along the kynurenine pathway, and is hypothesized to limit
tryptophan availability at embryo implantation and prevent maternal T cell
activation at the maternal-fetal interface. To determine if nonhuman primates are
suitable models for investigating the role of IDO during pregnancy, we defined
the expression of IDO in the rhesus monkey and common marmoset with particular
attention to the female reproductive tract and placenta. IDO mRNA was detected by
RT-PCR in the rhesus monkey term placenta, lung, small intestine, spleen, lymph
node and nonpregnant uterus, and also in the common marmoset placenta.
Immunohistochemical analysis of rhesus monkey tissues localized IDO to glandular 
epithelium of nonpregnant endometrium and first trimester decidua, vessel
endothelium of nonpregnant myometrium, first trimester decidua and term decidua, 
and villous vessel endothelium and syncytiotrophoblast of term placenta. Western 
blot analysis confirmed IDO in rhesus monkey term placenta. In the common
marmoset, IDO was detected in glandular epithelium of the nonpregnant uterus and 
in the decidua at day 60 and day 128 of gestation. IDO activity was higher in
rhesus monkey and common marmoset decidua and placentas than in other tissues.
Confirmation of IDO expression in rhesus monkey and common marmoset uterine and
placental tissues supports the hypothesis that this enzyme regulates immune
activation at the maternal-fetal interface and demonstrates that nonhuman
primates may provide models with distinct similarities to human placentation to
study the role of IDO in maternal-fetal immune dialogue.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jri.2008.03.005 
PMID: 18490060  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

