

2279. J Virol. 2008 Jul;82(14):7167-79. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02664-07. Epub 2008 May 14.

Characterization of the New World monkey homologues of human poliovirus receptor 
CD155.

Khan S(1), Peng X, Yin J, Zhang P, Wimmer E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Stony Brook University,
Stony Brook, NY 11794-5222, USA.

In contrast to Old World monkeys, most New World monkeys (NWMs) are not
susceptible to poliovirus (PV), regardless of the route of infection. We have
investigated the molecular basis of restricted PV pathogenesis of NWMs with two
kidney cell lines of NWMs, TMX (tamarin) and NZP-60 (marmoset), and characterized
their PV receptor homologues. TMX cells were susceptible to infection by PV1
(Mahoney) and PV3 (Leon) but not by PV2 (Lansing). Binding studies to TMX cells
indicated that the formation of PV/receptor complexes increased when measured
first at 4 degrees C and then at 25 degrees C, whereas PV2 did not significantly 
bind to TMX cells at either temperature. On the other hand, NZP-60 cells were not
susceptible to infection by any of the PV serotypes. However, a low amount of PV1
bound to NZP-60 cells at 4 degrees C, but there was no increase of binding at 25 
degrees C. In contrast, both NWM cell lines supported genome replication and
virion formation when transfected with viral RNAs of either serotype, an
observation indicating that infection was blocked in receptor-virus interaction. 
To overcome the receptor block, we substituted 3 amino acids in the marmoset
receptor (nCD155), H80Q, N85S, and P87S, found in the human PV receptor, hCD155. 
Cells expressing the mutant receptor (L-nCD155mt) were now susceptible to
infection with PV1, which correlated with an increase in PV1-bound receptor
complexes from 4 degrees C to 25 degrees C. L-nCD155mt cells were, however, still
resistant to PV2 and PV3. These data show that an increase in the formation of
PV/receptor complexes, when measured at 4 degrees C and at 25 degrees C,
correlates with and is an indicator of successful infection at 37 degrees C,
suggesting that the complex formed at 25 degrees C may be an intermediate in PV
uptake.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02664-07 
PMCID: PMC2446954
PMID: 18480448  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

