

2282. Horm Behav. 2008 Aug;54(2):302-11. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2008.03.004. Epub 2008
Mar 25.

Different ovarian responses to potential mates underlie species-specific breeding
strategies in common marmoset and Goeldi's monkey.

Mattle FM(1), Pryce CR, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland. frama@aim.uzh.ch

Callitrichids are cooperative breeders, characterized by obligate twinning,
extensive paternal care, and monopolization of reproduction by the dominant
female. This is the case in the common marmoset, and in common marmoset groups of
more than one adult female, subordinate females are typically acyclic consistent 
with infertility. However, one callitrichid, Goeldi's monkey, gives birth to
singletons and exhibits low paternal care. Given these reproductive traits of
Goeldi's monkey, we hypothesized that there would not be suppression of ovarian
activity. To test this hypothesis, we applied non-invasive endocrine methods in a
step-wise experiment with laboratory groups of both species. In each species, six
pairs of sisters were studied alone, in visual contact with an unrelated male and
in a polygynous trio with the male, and urine samples were collected for
determination of oestrogen titres reflecting ovarian activity. Common marmoset
sister pairs exhibited a marked difference in social status: during the study 5
of 6 dominant females conceived but only 1 of 6 subordinate females; the
remaining 5 subordinates were acyclic at the end of the study, and instances of
ovulation typically resulted in aggression. Goeldi's monkey sister pairs showed
no status differences: in all pairs, however, both sisters exhibited a temporary 
cessation of ovarian cyclicity on trio formation, followed by ovulation and
conception. We conclude that these marked differences in ovarian responses
reflect the differences in inter-female competition for paternal caregiving
resources. In common marmosets with high inter-female competition, suppression of
ovulation functions to reduce aggression received by subordinate females; in
Goeldi's monkey with low competition, temporary cessation of ovulation could
facilitate female choice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2008.03.004 
PMID: 18471815  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

