

2285. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 Jul 1;36(Web Server issue):W140-4. doi:
10.1093/nar/gkn253. Epub 2008 May 7.

OREST: the online resource for EST analysis.

Waegele B(1), Schmidt T, Mewes HW, Ruepp A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Bioinformatics and Systems Biology (MIPS), Helmholtz Zentrum
München - German Research Center for Environmental Health (GmbH), Ingolstädter
Landstrasse 1, D-85764 Neuherberg, Germany.
brigitte.waegele@helmholtz-muenchen.de

The generation of expressed sequence tag (EST) libraries offers an affordable
approach to investigate organisms, if no genome sequence is available. OREST
(http://mips.gsf.de/genre/proj/orest/index.html) is a server-based EST analysis
pipeline, which allows the rapid analysis of large amounts of ESTs or cDNAs from 
mammalia and fungi. In order to assign the ESTs to genes or proteins OREST maps
DNA sequences to reference datasets of gene products and in a second step to
complete genome sequences. Mapping against genome sequences recovers additional
13% of EST data, which otherwise would escape further analysis. To enable
functional analysis of the datasets, ESTs are functionally annotated using the
hierarchical FunCat annotation scheme as well as GO annotation terms. OREST also 
allows to predict the association of gene products and diseases by Morbid Map
(OMIM) classification. A statistical analysis of the results of the dataset is
possible with the included PROMPT software, which provides information about
enrichment and depletion of functional and disease annotation terms. OREST was
successfully applied for the identification and functional characterization of
more than 3000 EST sequences of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
as part of an international collaboration.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn253 
PMCID: PMC2447738
PMID: 18463135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

