

2288. Nature. 2008 Jun 19;453(7198):1102-6. doi: 10.1038/nature06910. Epub 2008 May 4.

Neural substrates of vocalization feedback monitoring in primate auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
seliades@jhu.edu

Vocal communication involves both speaking and hearing, often taking place
concurrently. Vocal production, including human speech and animal vocalization,
poses a number of unique challenges for the auditory system. It is important for 
the auditory system to monitor external sounds continuously from the acoustic
environment during speaking despite the potential for sensory masking by
self-generated sounds. It is also essential for the auditory system to monitor
feedback of one's own voice. This self-monitoring may play a part in
distinguishing between self-generated or externally generatedauditory inputs and 
in detecting errors in our vocal production. Previous work in humans and other
animals has demonstrated that the auditory cortex is largely suppressed during
speaking or vocalizing. Despite the importance of self-monitoring, the underlying
neural mechanisms in the mammalian brain, in particular the role of
vocalization-induced suppression, remain virtually unknown. Here we show that
neurons in the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) are
sensitive to auditory feedback during vocal production, and that changes in the
feedback alter the coding properties of these neurons. Furthermore, we found that
the previously described cortical suppression during vocalization actually
increased the sensitivity of these neurons to vocal feedback. This heightened
sensitivity to vocal feedback suggests that these neurons may have an important
role in auditory self-monitoring.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06910 
PMID: 18454135  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

