

2294. Arch Toxicol. 2008 Oct;82(10):717-27. doi: 10.1007/s00204-008-0296-8. Epub 2008
Apr 17.

Human CYP2E1 mediates the formation of glycidamide from acrylamide.

Settels E(1), Bernauer U, Palavinskas R, Klaffke HS, Gundert-Remy U, Appel KE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Experimental Toxicology, Federal Institute for Risk Assessment,
Thielallee 88-92, 14195 Berlin, Germany.

Regarding the cancer risk assessment of acrylamide (AA) it is of basic interest
to know, as to what amount of the absorbed AA is metabolized to glycidamide (GA) 
in humans, compared to what has been observed in laboratory animals. GA is
suspected of being the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite of AA. From experiments
with CYP2E1-deficient mice it can be concluded that AA is metabolized to GA
primarily by CYP2E1. We therefore examined whether CYP2E1 is involved in GA
formation in non-rodent species with the focus on humans by using human CYP2E1
supersomes, marmoset and human liver microsomes and in addition, genetically
engineered V79 cells expressing human CYP2E1 (V79h2E1 cells). Special emphasis
was placed on the analytical detection of GA, which was performed by gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry. The results show that AA is metabolized to GA
in human CYP2E1 supersomes, in marmoset and human liver microsomes as well as in 
V79h2E1 cells. The activity of GA formation is highest in supersomes; in human
liver it is somewhat higher than in marmoset liver. A monoclonal CYP2E1 human
selective antibody (MAB-2E1) and diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC) were used as
specific inhibitors of CYP2E1. The generation of GA could be inhibited by MAB-2E1
to about 80% in V79h2E1 cells and to about 90% in human and marmoset liver
microsomes. Also DDC led to an inhibition of about 95%. In conclusion, AA is
metabolized to GA by human CYP2E1. Overall, the present work describes (1) the
application and refinement of a sensitive methodology in order to determine low
amounts of GA, (2) the applicability of genetically modified V79 cell lines in
order to investigate specific questions concerning metabolism and (3) the
involvement, for the first time, of human CYP2E1 in the formation of GA from AA. 
Further studies will compare the activities of GA formation in genetically
engineered V79 cells expressing CYP2E1 from different species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-008-0296-8 
PMID: 18418580  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

