

2297. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2008 Apr;67(4):326-40. doi:
10.1097/NEN.0b013e31816a6851.

Autoimmunity against myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein is dispensable for the
initiation although essential for the progression of chronic encephalomyelitis in
common marmosets.

Jagessar SA(1), Smith PA, Blezer E, Delarasse C, Pham-Dinh D, Laman JD, Bauer J, 
Amor S, 't Hart B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

To elucidate the pathogenetic significance of myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG)-specific autoreactivity in a genetically and immunologically heterogeneous 
nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis, we analyzed experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the outbred common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). One 
sibling each of 5 bone marrow chimeric marmoset twins was immunized with myelin
derived from wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice (WT myelin); the other sibling was
immunized with myelin from MOG-deficient C57BL/6 mice (MOG -/- myelin). One twin 
pair developed acute EAE simultaneously; the 4 remaining twin siblings immunized 
with WT myelin developed chronic progressive EAE, whereas siblings of these 4
monkeys remained free of clinical disease signs. Many EAE-related abnormalities
were identified in the CNS of both groups by magnetic resonance imaging and
histologic analysis, but mean percentages of spinal cord demyelination were lower
in monkeys immunized with MOG -/- myelin (8.2%) than in WT myelin-immunized
animals (40.5%). There was a strong correlation between the development of overt 
clinical EAE and seropositivity for anti-MOG antibodies, but blood and lymph node
T-cell proliferative responses showed no relationship to disease. These results
indicate that the initiation of CNS inflammation and demyelination can take place
in the absence of detectable autoimmunity against MOG, but the clinical
progression and histopathologic severity depends on the presence of antibodies
against MOG in this multiple sclerosis model.

DOI: 10.1097/NEN.0b013e31816a6851 
PMID: 18379435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

