

2309. Vis Neurosci. 2008 Jan-Feb;25(1):67-76. doi: 10.1017/S0952523808080073.

Distribution of bipolar input to midget and parasol ganglion cells in marmoset
retina.

Eriköz B(1), Jusuf PR, Percival KA, Grünert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Australia.

Different types of retinal ganglion cell show differences in their response
properties. Here we investigated the question of whether these differences are
related to the distribution of the synaptic input to the dendritic tree. We
measured the distribution and density of synaptic input to the dendrites of
midget and parasol ganglion cells in the retina of a New World monkey, the
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. Ganglion cells were retrogradely labeled by dye
injection into parvocellular or magnocellular regions of the lateral geniculate
nucleus and subsequently photo-filled. Presumed bipolar cell synapses were
identified immunocytochemically using antibodies against the ribbon protein CtBP2
or the GluR4 subunit of the AMPA receptor. For all cells, colocalized
immunoreactive puncta were distributed across the entire dendritic tree. The
density of the presumed bipolar input to midget ganglion cells was comparable for
both synaptic markers, suggesting that the AMPA receptor GluR4 subunit is
expressed at all synapses between midget bipolar and midget ganglion cells.
Midget ganglion cells had an average of nine colocalized immunoreactive puncta
per 100 microm2 dendritic surface, and parasol cells had an average of seven
colocalized immunoreactive puncta per 100 microm2 dendritic surface. The
densities were comparable in different regions of the dendritic tree and were not
influenced by the location of the cells with respect to the fovea. Our findings
suggest that the differences in the response characteristics of midget and
parasol cells are not due to differences in the density of synaptic input to
their dendritic tree.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523808080073 
PMID: 18282311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

