

2312. Brain Res. 2008 Mar 10;1198:160-70. doi: 10.1016/j.brainres.2007.12.065. Epub
2008 Jan 4.

Cerebrospinal fluid to brain transport of manganese in a non-human primate
revealed by MRI.

Bock NA(1), Paiva FF, Nascimento GC, Newman JD, Silva AC.

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Unit, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1065, USA. bockn@mail.nih.gov

Manganese overexposure in non-human primates and humans causes a
neurodegenerative disorder called manganism thought to be related to an
accumulation of the metal in the basal ganglia. Here, we assess changes in the
concentration of manganese in regions of the brain of a non-human primate (the
common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus) following four systemic injections of 30
mg/kg MnCl2 H2O in the tail vein using T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging
(MRI) and compare these to changes in the rat following the same exposure route
and dose. The doses were spaced 48 h apart and we imaged the animals 48 h after
the final dose. We find that marmosets have significantly larger T1-weighted
image enhancements in regions of the brain compared to rats, notably in the basal
ganglia and the visual cortex. To confirm this difference across species reflects
actual differences in manganese concentrations and not variations in the MRI
properties of manganese, we measured the longitudinal relaxivity of manganese
(chi1) in the in vivo brain and found no significant species' difference. The
high manganese uptake in the marmoset basal ganglia and visual cortex can be
explained by CSF-brain transport from the large lateral ventricles and we confirm
this route of uptake with time-course MRI during a tail-vein infusion of
manganese. There is also high uptake in the substructures of the hippocampus that
are adjacent to the ventricles. The large manganese accumulation in these
structures on overexposure may be common to all primates, including humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2007.12.065 
PMCID: PMC2276322
PMID: 18243167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

