

2316. Pharmacogenet Genomics. 2008 Jan;18(1):53-66. doi: 10.1097/FPC.0b013e3282f313f8.

CYP3 phylogenomics: evidence for positive selection of CYP3A4 and CYP3A7.

Qiu H(1), Taudien S, Herlyn H, Schmitz J, Zhou Y, Chen G, Roberto R, Rocchi M,
Platzer M, Wojnowski L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: CYP3A metabolizes 50% of currently prescribed drugs and is frequently 
involved in clinically relevant drug interactions. The understanding of roles and
regulations of the individual CYP3A genes in pharmacology and physiology is
incomplete.
METHODS: Using genomic sequences from 16 species we investigated the evolution of
CYP3 genomic loci over a period of 450 million years.
RESULTS: CYP3A genes in amniota evolved from two ancestral CYP3A genes. Upon the 
emergence of eutherian mammals, one of them was lost, whereas, the other acquired
a novel genomic environment owing to translocation. In primates, CYP3A underwent 
rapid evolutionary changes involving multiple gene duplications, deletions,
pseudogenizations, and gene conversions. The expansion of CYP3A in catarrhines
(Old World monkeys, great apes, and humans) differed substantially from New World
primates (e.g. common marmoset) and strepsirrhines (e.g. galago). We detected two
recent episodes of particularly strong positive selection acting on primate CYP3A
protein-coding sequence: (i) on CYP3A7 early in hominoid evolution, which was
accompanied by a restriction of its hepatic expression to fetal period and (ii)
on human CYP3A4 following the split of the chimpanzee and human lineages. In
agreement with these findings, three out of four positively selected amino acids 
investigated in previous biochemical studies of CYP3A affect the activity and
regioselectivity.
CONCLUSIONS: CYP3A7 and CYP3A4 may have acquired catalytic functions especially
important for the evolution of hominoids and humans, respectively.

DOI: 10.1097/FPC.0b013e3282f313f8 
PMID: 18216722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

