

2317. J Immunol. 2008 Feb 1;180(3):1326-37.

Fast progression of recombinant human myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in marmosets is
associated with the activation of MOG34-56-specific cytotoxic T cells.

Kap YS(1), Smith P, Jagessar SA, Remarque E, Blezer E, Strijkers GJ, Laman JD,
Hintzen RQ, Bauer J, Brok HP, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The recombinant human (rh) myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in the common marmoset is
characterized by 100% disease incidence, a chronic disease course, and a variable
time interval between immunization and neurological impairment. We investigated
whether monkeys with fast and slow disease progression display different anti-MOG
T or B cell responses and analyzed the underlying pathogenic mechanism(s). The
results show that fast progressor monkeys display a significantly wider
specificity diversification of anti-MOG T cells at necropsy than slow
progressors, especially against MOG(34-56) and MOG(74-96). MOG(34-56) emerged as 
a critical encephalitogenic peptide, inducing severe neurological disease and
multiple lesions with inflammation, demyelination, and axonal injury in the CNS. 
Although EAE was not observed in MOG(74-96)-immunized monkeys, weak T cell
responses against MOG(34-56) and low grade CNS pathology were detected. When
these cases received a booster immunization with MOG(34-56) in IFA, full-blown
EAE developed. MOG(34-56)-reactive T cells expressed CD3, CD4, or CD8 and CD56,
but not CD16. Moreover, MOG(34-56)-specific T cell lines displayed specific
cytotoxic activity against peptide-pulsed B cell lines. The phenotype and
cytotoxic activity suggest that these cells are NK-CTL. These results support the
concept that cytotoxic cells may play a role in the pathogenesis of multiple
sclerosis.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.180.3.1326 
PMID: 18209026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

