

2319. Hippocampus. 2008;18(4):425-34. doi: 10.1002/hipo.20403.

Calretinin expression in hilar mossy cells of the hippocampal dentate gyrus of
nonhuman primates and humans.

Seress L(1), Abrahám H, Czéh B, Fuchs E, Léránth C.

Author information: 
(1)Central Electron Microscopic Laboratory, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Pécs, Pécs, Hungary. laszlo.seress@aok.pte.hu

Mossy cells, the major excitatory neurons of the hilus of the dentate gyrus
constitutively express calretinin in several rodent species, including mouse and 
hamster, but not in rats. Several studies suggest that mossy cells of the monkey 
dentate gyrus are calretinin-positive, but others have reported mossy cells in
monkeys to be devoid of detectable calretinin-like immunoreactivity. In the
present study, the hilar region was investigated throughout the entire
longitudinal extent of the hippocampal dentate gyrus in both Old World and New
World monkeys, as well as in humans. In the examined four monkey species, mossy
cells were found to be calretinin-positive at the uncal pole and at variable
length within the main body of the dentate gyrus but not in the tail part. The
associational pathway, formed by axons of mossy cells in the inner dentate
molecular layer was calretinin-positive in more caudal sections, suggesting that 
mossy cell axon terminals may contain calretinin, whereas mossy cell somata may
contain calretinin in a concentration too low to be detected by
immunocytochemistry. In contrast, human mossy cells appear to be devoid of
calretinin immunoreactivity in both their somata and their axon terminals. Taken 
together, mossy cells of nonhuman primates and humans exhibit different
expression pattern for calretinin whereas they show similarities in neurochemical
content, such as the cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript peptide.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.20403 
PMID: 18189312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

