

232. J Hum Evol. 2020 Dec;149:102882. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2020.102882. Epub 2020 Oct
24.

Meat eating by nonhuman primates: A review and synthesis.

Watts DP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Anthropology, Yale University, P.O. Box 208277, New Haven, CT,
06520-8277, United States. Electronic address: david.watts@yale.edu.

Most nonhuman primates prey on vertebrates. Meat-eating, defined as ingestion of 
vertebrate tissue, occurs in 12 families, ≥39 genera, and ≥89 species. It is most
common in capuchins (Cebus and Sapajus spp.), baboons (Papio spp.), bonobos (Pan 
paniscus), and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and modestly common in blue monkeys 
(Cercopithecus mitis), callitrichids (Callithrix spp. and Saguinus spp.), and
squirrel monkeys (Saimiri spp.). It is uncommon in other cercopithecines, rare in
other haplorhines and in lemurs, and virtually absent in colobines. Birds are the
prey class eaten by the most species (≥53), followed by reptiles (≥48),
amphibians (≥38), mammals (≥35), and fish (≥7). Major hypotheses for the
importance of meat eating are that it is (1) mainly an energy source, especially 
(1a) when plant-source foods (PSFs) with high energy return rates are scarce
(energy shortfall hypothesis); (2) mainly a protein source; and (3) mainly a
source of micronutrients scarce in PSFs. Meat eating bouts sometimes provide
substantial energy and protein, and some chimpanzees gain substantial protein
from meat monthly or annually. However, meat typically accounts for only small
proportions of feeding time and of total energy and protein intake, and
quantitative data are inconsistent with the energy shortfall hypothesis. PSFs
and/or invertebrates are presumably the main protein sources, even for
chimpanzees. Support is strongest for the micronutrient hypothesis. Most
chimpanzees eat far less meat than recorded for hunter-gatherers, but the highest
chimpanzee estimates approach the lowest for African hunter-gatherers. In
fundamental contrast to the human predatory pattern, other primates only eat
vertebrates much smaller than they are, tool-assisted predation is rare except in
some capuchins and chimpanzees, and tool use in carcass processing is virtually
absent. However, harvesting of small prey deserves more attention with reference 
to the archaeological and ethnographic record.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2020.102882 
PMID: 33137551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The author declares no
conflict of interest.

