

2320. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2008 Apr;33(3):321-7. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.11.014. Epub 2008 Jan 9.

Effects of acute systemic cocaine administration on the cortisol, ACTH and
prolactin levels of black tufted-ear marmosets.

Lima D(1), Sp√≠ndola DB, Dias LO, Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Health Sciences, University
of Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

The effect of acute systemic cocaine administration on total circulating
cortisol, adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and prolactin levels of nine adult
black tufted-ear marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) was investigated. For 
each subject, two blood samples were obtained after an i.p. injection of 10 and
20mg/kg of cocaine: one sample was drawn 30-min post-injection, while the second 
was following a 60-min interval. Blood samples were also obtained 0, 30 and 60
min following a saline injection. The 20 mg/kg dose of cocaine induced a
significant decrease in ACTH levels 60 min after being administered. Circulating 
levels of cortisol, on the other hand, increased significantly 60 min after the
20 mg/kg dose. Prolactin concentrations decreased significantly 30 and 60 min
after both doses of cocaine had been administered (10 and 20 mg/kg). Finally, the
content of the three hormones analyzed remained constant 0, 30 and 60 min
post-saline administrations. Therefore, an acute systemic cocaine challenge
alters the basal circulating levels of ACTH, cortisol and prolactin of marmoset
monkeys. A distinct response pattern was observed for each hormone analyzed,
possibly related to specific negative feedback mechanisms and/or this species
glucocorticoid-resistance. The use of this small neotropical primate may thus
provide a unique opportunity to investigate cocaine-induced neuroendocrine
effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.11.014 
PMID: 18187261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

