

2322. Endocrinology. 2008 Apr;149(4):1736-47. doi: 10.1210/en.2007-1325. Epub 2008 Jan 
3.

Complete spermatogenesis in orthotopic but not in ectopic transplants of
autologously grafted marmoset testicular tissue.

Luetjens CM(1), Stukenborg JB, Nieschlag E, Simoni M, Wistuba J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstrasse 11,
MÃ¼nster, Germany.

Testicular grafting has the potential to become a method to preserve fertility in
prepubertal boys undergoing cancer treatment. The possibility of successful germ 
cell maturation after autologous grafting should be proven preclinically in a
nonhuman primate model. Therefore, in two experiments, we analyzed the potential 
of autologous testicular grafting in the marmoset model. A first experiment in
immature and adult hemi-castrated monkeys addressed the question of whether full 
spermatogenesis in an ectopic graft could be achieved under a relatively normal
endocrine milieu and whether the donor's age is of influence. A second experiment
in castrated immature animals examined whether the transplantation site [ectopic 
(back skin) or orthotopic (scrotum)] influences spermatogenic progress and
whether cryopreserved tissue can be successfully transplanted. Grafts were
analyzed by histology, immunohistochemistry, and morphometry. Bioactive chorionic
gonadotropin and serum testosterone were measured. In the adults, ectopic grafts 
degenerated, whereas in the immature animals, grafts survived at the
spermatogonial level. In the castrates, none of the cryopreserved grafts
survived, ectopic grafts were meiotically arrested, but orthotopic transplants
completed spermatogenesis. Androgen and bioactive chorionic gonadotropin levels
were not decisive for graft development. When ectopic and orthotopic
transplantation sites were compared, the scrotum has a substantially lower
temperature. Thus, the higher temperature at the ectopic transplantation site may
contribute to spermatogenic arrest. Autologous grafting of nonhuman primate
testicular tissues can result in complete spermatogenesis. Our findings indicate 
that transplantation site and developmental age of the tissue play a role more
important than the endocrine milieu.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2007-1325 
PMID: 18174281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

