

2328. Neurodegener Dis. 2008;5(1):38-52.

Preclinical assessment of therapeutic antibodies against human CD40 and human
interleukin-12/23p40 in a nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis.

't Hart BA(1), Hintzen RQ, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

BACKGROUND: Proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-23, and
costimulatory molecules on antigen-presenting cells (APC), such as CD40, are
critical to autoreactive T cell activation by APC, and hence, are considered
relevant targets of therapy for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMID).
OBJECTIVE: The current review discusses the preclinical evaluation of two novel
immunotherapeutic monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), one directed against human
IL-12/23p40 and the other against CD40. As the antibodies only recognize their
target molecule in primates, the efficacy could not be tested in rodent models.
RESULTS: As a preclinical IMID model for the in vivo evaluation of both mAbs, we 
have used the experimental autoimmune/allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in
common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Both mAbs show beneficial
activities in the EAE model when administered early in disease development as
well as after the onset of brain inflammation. The treatment effects were
evaluated using a combination of quantitative magnetic resonance imaging and a
series of ex vivo and immunopathological evaluations.
CONCLUSION: The promising effects during ongoing disease in a relevant
preclinical IMID model illustrate the potential of these two antibodies as
treatment of IMID, in particular for multiple sclerosis on which disease EAE has 
been modeled.

Copyright (c) 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000109937 
PMID: 18075274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

