

233. Neuroimage. 2021 Jan 15;225:117521. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117521. Epub
2020 Nov 1.

The role of MRI in applying the 3Rs to non-human primate neuroscience.

Prescott MJ(1), Poirier C(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in
Research (NC3Rs), Gibbs Building, 215 Euston Road, London NW1 2BE, UK. Electronic
address: mark.prescott@nc3rs.org.uk.
(2)Biosciences Institute & Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle
University, Medical School, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.
Electronic address: colline.poirier@ncl.ac.uk.

Magnetic resonance imaging is playing a significant role in applying the 3Rs to
neuroscience studies using non-human primates. MRI scans are contributing to
refinement by enhancing the selection and assignment of animals, guiding the
manufacture of custom-fitted recording and head fixation devices, and assisting
with the diagnosis of health issues and their treatment. MRI is also being used
to better understand the impact of neuroscience procedures on the welfare of
NHPs. MRI has helped to optimise NHP use and make greater scientific progress
than would otherwise be made using larger numbers of animals. Whilst human fMRI
studies have replaced some NHP studies, their potential to directly replace NHP
electrophysiology is limited at present. Given the considerable advantages of MRI
for electrophysiology experiments, including improved welfare of NHPs,
consideration should be given to focusing NHP electrophysiology laboratories
around MRI facilities. Greater sharing of MRI data sets, and improvements in MRI 
contrast and resolution, are expected to further advance the 3Rs in the future.

Copyright Â© 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117521 
PMID: 33137476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare no competing interests.

