

2334. DNA Cell Biol. 2008 Jan;27(1):45-54.

The cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus) has five beta-microseminoprotein genes,
two of which are pseudogenes.

Valtonen-André C(1), Lundwall A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Chemistry, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund
University, University Hospital MAS, Malmö, Sweden.

beta-Microseminoprotein (MSP) is one of the most abundant proteins in human
seminal plasma and is secreted from the prostate gland. Its evolution can be
traced from primates down to nonvertebrate species such as amphioxus, despite
substantial differences in the primary structure. Most mammals are known to have 
one single MSP gene, but we have previously shown that the cotton-top tamarin and
the common marmoset-two New World monkeys-carry several MSP genes. In this study 
we continue our characterization of MSP genes in the cotton-top tamarin by
presenting the full nucleotide sequence of the three previously identified genes,
mspA, mspE, and mspJ. A promoter analysis using the luciferase reporter showed
that mspE is as transcriptionally active as the single human MSP gene, whereas
mspA and mspJ display no activity with this assay. Two novel MSP genes were also 
identified, mspB and mspH, both of which are pseudogenes. MspB has a frameshift
mutation in the third exon resulting in a new C-terminus and premature stop of
translation. MspH has the features of a processed pseudogene, originating from a 
transcript of mspE. It is integrated into the genome together with another
processed pseudogene originating from a transcript of the nucleoporin gene NUP88.
The MSP genes described in this study probably arose by phylogenetically rather
late duplication or retrotransposition, suggesting that they are confined to a
limited number of New World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.2007.0641 
PMID: 18020964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

