

2335. Mol Hum Reprod. 2007 Nov;13(11):781-9.

Regulation of tight junction proteins occludin and claudin 5 in the primate ovary
during the ovulatory cycle and after inhibition of vascular endothelial growth
factor.

Rodewald M(1), Herr D, Fraser HM, Hack G, Kreienberg R, Wulff C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Ulm, Prittwitzstrasse
43, 89075 Ulm, Germany.

Ovarian follicular and corpus luteum development, including angiogenesis, are
characterized by cell-cell rearrangements that may require dynamic changes in
cell-cell adhesion. The present study investigates the expression of tight
junction proteins occludin and claudin 5 during follicular and luteal development
in the primate ovary and after inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF) by VEGF trap treatment. Occludin was localized to the plasma membrane of
granulosa cells. During follicular development occludin staining decreased
significantly (P < 0.05) and disappeared completely by the ovulatory stage. After
inhibition of VEGF, occludin staining was significantly (P < 0.05) higher in the 
granulosa of secondary and tertiary follicles compared with controls. Claudin 5
was exclusively localized to the theca vasculature. A significant (P < 0.05)
increase in staining was detected from the pre-antral to the antral and ovulatory
stage. However, dual staining with CD31 revealed that within the theca
endothelium the amount of claudin 5 remained constant during follicular
development. Treatment with VEGF trap throughout the follicular phase revealed a 
lack of claudin 5 staining in the theca interna but no difference was observed in
the remaining theca externa vasculature. In the corpus luteum, claudin 5 was also
localized in the vasculature. Treatment with VEGF trap in the mid-luteal phase
resulted in a significant increase in staining (P < 0.05). These results led us
to hypothesize that tight junctions are involved in regulation of follicular
growth, antrum transition and follicular angiogenesis which is compromised by
VEGF inhibition. VEGF may influence luteal vascular permeability by regulation of
the endothelial specific tight junction protein claudin 5.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gam066 
PMID: 18006538  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

