

2337. Immunology. 2008 Apr;123(4):566-74. Epub 2007 Nov 14.

Isolation and characterization of dendritic cells from common marmosets for
preclinical cell therapy studies.

Ohta S(1), Ueda Y, Yaguchi M, Matsuzaki Y, Nakamura M, Toyama Y, Tanioka Y,
Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Okano H, Kawakami Y, Toda M.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Research Group, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.

Dendritic cells (DCs) have important functions as modulators of immune responses,
and their ability to activate T cells is of great value in cancer immunotherapy. 
The isolation of DCs from the peripheral blood of rhesus and African green
monkeys has been reported, but the immune system in the common marmoset remains
poorly characterized, although it offers many potential advantages for
preclinical studies. In the present study, we devised methods, based on
techniques developed for mouse and human DC preparation, for isolating DCs from
three major tissue sources in the common marmoset: bone marrow (BM), spleen and
peripheral blood. Each set of separated cells was analysed using the cell surface
DC-associated markers CD11c, CD80, CD83, CD86 and human leucocyte antigen
(HLA)-DR, all of which are antibodies against human antigens, and the cells were 
further characterized both functionally and morphologically as antigen-presenting
cells. BM proved to be an excellent cell source for the isolation of DCs intended
for preclinical studies on cell therapy, for which large quantities of cells are 
required. In the BM-derived CD11c(+) cell population, cells exhibiting the
characteristic features of DCs were enriched, with the typical DC morphology and 
the abilities to undergo endocytosis, to secrete interleukin (IL)-12, and to
stimulate Xenogenic T cells. Moreover, BM-derived DCs produced the neurotrophic
factor NT-3, which is also found in murine splenic DCs. These results suggest
that BM-derived DCs from the common marmoset may be useful for biological
analysis and for preclinical studies on cell therapy for central nervous system
diseases and cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2567.2007.02727.x 
PMCID: PMC2433308
PMID: 18005037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

