

2338. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Nov;26(10):2906-21.

Characterization and synaptic connectivity of melanopsin-containing ganglion
cells in the primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Lee SC, Hannibal J, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Cnr Keppel & Cardigan
Streets, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

Melanopsin is a photopigment expressed in retinal ganglion cells, which are
intrinsically photosensitive and are also involved in retinal circuits arising
from rod and cone photoreceptors. This circuitry, however, is poorly understood. 
Here, we studied the morphology, distribution and synaptic input to
melanopsin-containing ganglion cells in a New World monkey, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). The dendrites of melanopsin-containing cells in marmoset
stratify either close to the inner nuclear layer (outer stratifying), or close to
the ganglion cell layer (inner stratifying). The dendritic fields of
outer-stratifying cells tile the retina, with little overlap. However, the
dendritic fields of outer-stratifying cells largely overlap with the dendritic
fields of inner-stratifying cells. Thus, inner-stratifying and outer-stratifying 
cells may form functionally independent populations. The synaptic input to
melanopsin-containing cells was determined using synaptic markers (antibodies to 
C-terminal binding protein 2, CtBP2, for presumed bipolar synapses, and
antibodies to gephyrin for presumed amacrine synapses). Both outer-stratifying
and inner-stratifying cells show colocalized immunoreactive puncta across their
entire dendritic tree for both markers. The density of CtBP2 puncta on inner
dendrites was about 50% higher than that on outer dendrites. The density of
gephyrin puncta was comparable for outer and inner dendrites but higher than the 
density of CtBP2 puncta. The inner-stratifying cells may receive their input from
a type of diffuse bipolar cell (DB6). Our results are consistent with the idea
that both outer and inner melanopsin cells receive bipolar and amacrine input
across their dendritic tree.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05924.x 
PMID: 18001286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

