

234. Acta Vet Hung. 2020 Sep 30;68(3):323-327. doi: 10.1556/004.2020.00039.

Complete genome analysis confirms that the pygmy marmoset adenovirus is a variant
of the skunk adenovirus 1 - Short communication.

Doszpoly A(1), Hornyák Á(2), Bányai K(1).

Author information: 
(1)1Institute for Veterinary Medical Research, Centre for Agricultural Research, 
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Hungária krt. 21, H-1143 Budapest, Hungary.
(2)2Veterinary Diagnostic Directorate, National Food Chain Safety Office,
Budapest, Hungary.

The complete genomic sequence along with phylogenetic analyses of an adenovirus
(AdV), isolated from a dead captive pygmy marmoset (Callithrix pygmaea) from a
Hungarian zoo is reported. Earlier, based on the phylogenetic analysis of the
sequence of a PCR-amplified fragment from the DNA polymerase gene, the pygmy
marmoset AdV (PMAdV) has been reported to cluster closest to certain chiropteran 
AdVs. In the following years similar AdVs were discovered in additional mammalian
hosts, including a skunk (Mephitis mephitis), African pygmy hedgehogs (Atelerix
albiventris), North American porcupines (Erethizon dorsatum) and grey fox
(Urocyon cinereoargenteus). After the full genome analysis of the skunk
adenovirus (SkAdV-1), a novel species Skunk mastadenovirus A (SkAdV-A) has been
established. The AdVs, originating from the African pygmy hedgehogs, have been
found to belong to virus species SkAdV-A. Partial gene sequences from the
porcupine AdVs have also implied their very close genetic relatedness to SkAdV-A.
The complete genomic sequence of PMAdV, examined in this study, was found to
share 99.83% nucleotide identity with SkAdV-1, thus unequivocally represents a
genomic variant of SkAdV-1. The observation that viruses classifiable as SkAdV-A 
are able to infect and cause diseases in several, distantly related mammals seems
to deserve further studies to elucidate the infection biology of this intriguing 
AdV.

DOI: 10.1556/004.2020.00039 
PMID: 33128521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

