

2342. J Neurosci. 2007 Oct 31;27(44):11991-8.

In vivo tracing of neural tracts in the intact and injured spinal cord of
marmosets by diffusion tensor tractography.

Fujiyoshi K(1), Yamada M, Nakamura M, Yamane J, Katoh H, Kitamura K, Kawai K,
Okada S, Momoshima S, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Keio University School of Medicine,
Shinjuku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.

In spinal cord injury, axonal disruption results in motor and sensory function
impairment. The evaluation of axonal fibers is essential to assess the severity
of injury and efficacy of any treatment protocol, but conventional methods such
as tracer injection in brain parenchyma are highly invasive and require
histological evaluation, precluding clinical applications. Previous advances in
magnetic resonance imaging technology have led to the development of diffusion
tensor tractography (DTT) as a potential modality to perform in vivo tracing of
axonal fibers. The properties and clinical applications of DTT in the brain have 
been reported, but technical difficulties have limited DTT studies of the spinal 
cord. In this study, we report the effective use of DTT to visualize both intact 
and surgically disrupted spinal long tracts in adult common marmosets. To verify 
the feasibility of spinal cord DTT, we first performed DTT of postmortem
marmosets. DTT clearly illustrated spinal projections such as the corticospinal
tract and afferent fibers in control animals, and depicted the severed long
tracts in the injured animals. Histology of the spinal cords in both control and 
injured groups were consistent with DTT findings, verifying the accuracy of DTT. 
We also conducted DTT in live marmosets and demonstrated that DTT can be
performed in live animals to reveal in vivo nerve fiber tracing images, providing
an essential tool to evaluate axonal conditions in the injured spinal cord. Taken
together, these findings demonstrate the feasibility of applying DTT to
preclinical and clinical studies of spinal cord injury.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3354-07.2007 
PMCID: PMC6673369
PMID: 17978040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

