

2346. Am J Primatol. 2008 Mar;70(3):294-300.

Orchidectomized (orx) marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model to study the
development of osteopenia/osteoporosis.

Seidlov√°-Wuttke D(1), Schlumbohm C, Jarry H, Dullin C, Wuttke W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Endocrinology, University of
Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.

The common marmoset serves as a primate model for many human diseases.
Hypogonadal and particularly aged men develop osteopenia or osteoporosis. Whether
marmosets develop osteoporosis after orchidectomy is not known. This was tested
in seven young and two older adult male orchidectomy animals using quantitative
computer tomography, which allowed quantification of total surface and density of
the cortex and of the cancellous structures of the metaphysis of the tibia and of
the fifth or sixth lumbal vertebra (L5/L6) before or after orchidectomy (orx),
and 1, 6 and 12 months later. Surrogate parameters of whole skeletal bone
metabolism (osteocalcin, OC) and C-terminal breakdown products (telopeptides) of 
collagen-alpha1 (CrossLaps) were also measured. Male marmosets lost between 5 and
20% of their initial cancellous density in the metaphysis of the tibia and this
was statistically significant 6 months after castration. No loss of cancellous
density was observed in L5/L6 of young marmosets and OC and the CrossLaps in the 
serum were decreased at this time point while a reduction was observed in bone
mineral density of L5/L6 in two aged animals. It is concluded that castration of 
young male marmoset for 1 year results in a significant loss of bone mineral
density in the metaphysis of the tibia resulting in osteopenia but not in the
vertebra. The results indicate that male orx marmosets become osteopenic within
12 months after castration and may be a more human-like experimental model for
bone research.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20493 
PMID: 17948894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

