

2353. Eur J Immunol. 2007 Nov;37(11):3229-39.

Relevant antibody subsets against MOG recognize conformational epitopes
exclusively exposed in solid-phase ELISA.

Menge T(1), von BÃ¼dingen HC, Lalive PH, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)University of California San Francisco, Department of Neurology, San Francisco
CA, USA.

A pathogenic role for circulating anti-myelin antibodies is difficult to
establish in multiple sclerosis (MS). Here, we unravel a broad heterogeneity
within the anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) antibodies in humans
and non-human primates, and demonstrate that detection of important epitopes of
MOG within the pathogenic repertoire is exclusively dependent on presentation on 
a solid-phase MOG conformer. Results of ELISA and those of a liquid-phase assay
were compared using a MOG protein with identical sequence but different
conformations. We tested sera from 50 human subjects, plasma of Callithrix
jacchus marmosets known to contain antibodies reactive to either conformational
or linearized MOG, and monoclonal, conformation-dependent anti-MOG antibodies. We
have found no antibody reactivity against the soluble MOG conformer in human
serum, and show that this lack of detection is not due to technical artifacts.
Rather, dominant epitopes of MOG are not displayed in soluble phase, as shown by 
a complete lack of binding of conformation-dependent mAb. In MP4-immune marmosets
that exhibit demyelinating pathology due to spreading of antibody determinants to
myelin-embedded MOG, only ELISA can detect pathogenic circulating anti-MOG
antibodies. Thus, the accurate detection of important subsets of pathogenic
anti-MOG antibodies requires methods in which MOG is displayed similarly to its
natural conformation in myelin.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200737249 
PMID: 17918203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

