

2364. J Med Chem. 2007 Oct 4;50(20):4832-44. Epub 2007 Sep 8.

Structural modification of the P2' position of 2,7-dialkyl-substituted
5(S)-amino-4(S)-hydroxy-8-phenyl-octanecarboxamides: the discovery of aliskiren, 
a potent nonpeptide human renin inhibitor active after once daily dosing in
marmosets.

Maibaum J(1), Stutz S, GÃ¶schke R, Rigollier P, Yamaguchi Y, Cumin F, Rahuel J,
Baum HP, Cohen NC, Schnell CR, Fuhrer W, Gruetter MG, Schilling W, Wood JM.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, NOVARTIS Pharma AG, WKL-136.683, 
CH-4002 Basel, Switzerland. juergen_klaus.maibaum@novartis.com

Due to its function in the rate limiting initial step of the renin-angiotensin
system, renin is a particularly promising target for drugs designed to control
hypertension, a growing risk to health worldwide. Despite vast efforts over more 
than two decades, no orally efficacious renin inhibitor had reached the market.
As a result of a structure-based topological design approach, we have identified 
a novel class of small-molecule inhibitors with good oral blood-pressure lowering
effects in primates. Further lead optimization aimed for improvement of in vivo
potency and duration of action, mainly by P2' modifications at the
hydroxyethylene transition-state isostere. These efforts resulted in the
discovery of aliskiren (46, CGP060536B, SPP100), a highly potent, selective
inhibitor of renin, demonstrating excellent efficacy in sodium-depleted marmosets
after oral administration, with sustained duration of action in reducing
dose-dependently mean arterial blood pressure. Aliskiren has recently received
regulatory approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1021/jm070316i 
PMID: 17824680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

