

2365. J Med Chem. 2007 Oct 4;50(20):4818-31. Epub 2007 Sep 8.

Novel 2,7-dialkyl-substituted 5(S)-amino-4(S)-hydroxy-8-phenyl-octanecarboxamide 
transition state peptidomimetics are potent and orally active inhibitors of human
renin.

GÃ¶schke R(1), Stutz S, Rasetti V, Cohen NC, Rahuel J, Rigollier P, Baum HP,
Forgiarini P, Schnell CR, Wagner T, Gruetter MG, Fuhrer W, Schilling W, Cumin F, 
Wood JM, Maibaum J.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, NOVARTIS Pharma AG, CH-4002
Basel, Switzerland.

The action of renin is the rate-limiting step of the renin-angiotensin system
(RAS), a key regulator of blood pressure. Effective renin inhibitors directly
block the RAS entirely at source and, thus, may provide a vital weapon for
hypertension therapy. Our efforts toward identifying novel small-molecule
peptidomimetic renin inhibitors have resulted in the design of transition-state
isosteres such as 1 bearing an all-carbon 8-phenyl-octanecarboxamide framework.
Optimization of the extended P3 portion of 1 and extensive P2' modifications
provided analogues with improved in vitro potencies in the presence of plasma.
X-ray resolution of rh-renin/38a in the course of SAR work surprisingly unveiled 
the exploitation of a previously unexplored pocket (S3sp) important for strong
binding affinities. Several inhibitors demonstrated oral efficacy in
sodium-depleted marmosets. The most potent, 38a, induced dose-dependently a
pronounced reduction in mean arterial blood pressure, paralleled by complete
blockade of active plasma renin, up to 8 h post-dose. Oral bioavailability of 38a
was 16% in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1021/jm070314y 
PMID: 17824679  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

