

2366. Mol Hum Reprod. 2007 Oct;13(10):729-36. Epub 2007 Sep 5.

Effects of inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor at time of selection 
on follicular angiogenesis, expansion, development and atresia in the marmoset.

Taylor PD(1), Wilson H, Hillier SG, Wiegand SJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, University of Edinburgh, The Queen's Medical Research
Institute, Edinburgh, UK.

This study determined the effects of inhibiting vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) at follicle selection. Marmosets were given an injection of VEGF
antagonist, the VEGF Trap on Day 5 of the follicular phase and ovaries were
evaluated on Day 10 or 15. Ovaries from controls were assessed on Day 5 (time of 
selection), Day 10 (peri-ovulatory) and Day 15 (luteal phase). At Day 10, ovaries
of four of the five controls contained dominant follicles, while one had
ovulated. VEGF Trap-treated ovaries also contained large follicles on Day 10, but
VEGF inhibition had suppressed endothelial cell proliferation, leading to
reductions in the thecal vascularization and plasma estradiol relative to
controls. By Day 15, ovaries of controls contained active corpora lutea whereas
ovaries of four of the five treated animals still contained large antral
follicles similar in size to pre-ovulatory follicles, and one had small,
avascular corpora lutea. However, these follicles had a restricted vasculature,
increased incidence of activated caspase-3 staining and morphological features
indicating they would become degenerative non-functional cysts. These results
show that after follicle selection, VEGF is essential for angiogenesis and the
generation of healthy ovulatory follicles and corpora lutea, but fluid
accumulation can still occur in selected follicles in the absence of VEGF.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gam056 
PMID: 17804434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

