

2372. J Mol Endocrinol. 2007 Aug;39(2):91-104.

Gene structure and promoter functional analysis of the marmoset type II GnRH
receptor.

Faurholm B(1), Cochrane S, Millar RR, Katz AA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/UCT Research Group for Receptor Biology, Institute of Infectious Disease
and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, Cape
Town, Observatory 7925, South Africa.

The marmoset type II GnRH receptor (GnRH-R) gene has the same structure and
genomic organisation as the human and other type II GnRH-R genes. The gene
consists of three exons and two introns and overlaps in the antisense orientation
on its 5' end with peroxisomal membrane protein 11beta and on its 3' end with the
RNA-binding motif protein 8A. However, these genes occur only at one locus in the
marmoset genome, while in the human at two loci. Employing 5' rapid amplification
of cDNA ends demonstrated that the marmoset type II GnRH-R gene has two
transcriptional start sites at -341 and -567 nucleotides relative to the
translational start codon and both start sites lack TATA and CAAT consensus
sequences. A luciferase reporter construct with a 2.3 kb 5' flanking region of
the type II GnRH-R gene was active in a wide variety of cell lines tested,
consistent with the wide tissue expression of the receptor. Progressive 5' and 3'
deletions were employed to identify sequences required for basal expression of
the type II GnRH-R gene. This analysis identified negative regulatory elements in
the regions -2342/-1995, -1679/-1084 and -458/-1 and positive regulatory elements
in the regions -1995/-1679, -1084/-458 and -458/-1 relative to the translational 
start site. The strongest of the positive regions located between -766/-665 has
enhancer activity when cloned in front of a heterologous minimal promoter and is 
critical for basal expression of the type II GnRH-R.

DOI: 10.1677/JME-06-0064 
PMID: 17693609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

