

2374. Reproduction. 2007 Aug;134(2):341-53.

Oestrogen and progesterone receptors in the marmoset endometrium: changes during 
the ovulatory cycle, early pregnancy and after inhibition of vascular endothelial
growth factor, GnRH or ovariectomy.

Silvestri A(1), Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, The Queen's Medical
Research Institute, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4TJ, UK.

Marmosets are widely used, but detailed studies on localisation of endometrial
oestrogen receptors alpha and beta (ER alpha and ER beta ), and the progesterone 
receptor (PR) are lacking. These receptors were localised and semi-quantitatively
analysed throughout the ovulatory cycle, weeks 2, 3 and 4 of pregnancy and after 
treatment with GnRH antagonist, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) Trap or
ovariectomy. The PR in epithelial cells increased markedly between the mid- and
late proliferative phases before declining in the mid-secretory phase and
pregnancy. PR in stromal cells was present throughout the cycle and levels were
maintained in pregnancy. ER alpha was present at the mid-proliferative phase and 
increased in glands at the late proliferative and early secretory phases, before 
declining at the late secretory phase and week 4 of pregnancy. Stromal ER alpha
showed a similar trend, but decreased earlier, by the mid-secretory phase. ER
beta was highly expressed in epithelial cells throughout the cycle and in
pregnancy. In stroma, increases in ER beta expression were observed at the late
proliferative phase with the staining index decreasing by half as the secretory
phase progressed and in pregnancy. GnRH antagonist, VEGF Trap or ovariectomy
caused significant reductions in PR and ER beta expression, but not in ER alpha
when compared with the late proliferative phase of the normal cycle. Endothelial 
cells expressed ER beta , but not ER alpha or PR. It is concluded that the
steroid receptor profile in the marmoset endometrium is generally similar to the 
human and should provide a useful model for studies on hormonal manipulation of
the endometrium.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-06-0266 
PMID: 17660243  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

