

2375. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2007 Sep 21;361(2):294-300. Epub 2007 Jul 16.

Efficient regulation of viral replication by siRNA in a non-human primate
surrogate model for hepatitis C.

Yokota T(1), Iijima S, Kubodera T, Ishii K, Katakai Y, Ageyama N, Chen Y, Lee YJ,
Unno T, Nishina K, Iwasaki Y, Maki N, Mizusawa H, Akari H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Science, Graduate School, Tokyo
Medical and Dental University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8519, Japan. 
tak-yokota.nuro@tmd.ac.jp

RNA interference (RNAi) represents a new technology which could offer potential
applications for the therapeutics of human diseases. RNAi-mediated therapy has
recently been shown to be effective toward infectious diseases in in vitro and
rodent models, however, it remains unclear whether RNAi therapy with systemic
application could be effective in primates. In this study, we examined if RNAi
therapy could be effective toward infectious diseases by using a non-human
primate surrogate model for hepatitis C. Administration into marmosets of
cationic liposome-encapsulated siRNA (CL-siRNA) for GB virus B (GBV-B), which is 
most closely related to hepatitis C virus, repressed GBV-B replication in a
dose-dependent manner. Especially, 5 mg/kg of the CL-siRNA completely inhibited
the viral replication. Since the serum interferons (IFNs) were induced by
CL-siRNA in vivo, inhibition of viral regulation by anti-GBV-B CL-siRNA may
include an antiviral effect of IFN. However, contribution of induced IFN may be
partial, since the control CL-siRNA which induced a stronger IFN response than
GBV-B CL-siRNA could only delay the viral replication. Our results suggest the
feasibility of systemic administration of CL-siRNA as an antiviral strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2007.06.182 
PMID: 17655825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

