

2380. PLoS One. 2007 Jul 11;2(7):e611.

Imitation as faithful copying of a novel technique in marmoset monkeys.

Voelkl B(1), Huber L.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Neurobiology and Cognition Research, University of Vienna,
Vienna, Austria.

Imitative learning has received great attention due to its supposed role in the
development of culture and the cognitive demands it poses on the individual.
Evidence for imitation in non-human primate species, therefore, could shed light 
on the early origins of proto-cultural traits in the primate order. Imitation has
been defined as the learning of an act by seeing it done or, more specifically,
as the copying of a novel or otherwise improbable act. But despite a century of
research and the detection of mirror neurons the empirical basis for this most
advanced form of observational learning is weak. Few, if any, studies have shown 
that the observer has learned the response topography, i.e., the specific action 
by which the response is made. In an experimental set-up we confronted marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with a conspecific model that was previously trained
to open a plastic box in a peculiar way. Employing detailed motion analyses we
show that the observers precisely copied the movement patterns of the novel
action demonstrated by the model. A discriminant analysis classified 13 out of 14
observer movements (92.86%) as model movements and only one as non-observer
movement. This evidence of imitation in non-human primates questions the dominant
opinion that imitation is a human-specific ability. Furthermore, the high
matching degree suggests that marmosets possess the neuronal mechanism to code
the actions of others and to map them onto their own motor repertoire, rather
than priming existing motor-templates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000611 
PMCID: PMC1905941
PMID: 17622356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

