

2385. BMC Genomics. 2007 Jun 25;8:190.

Development of the first marmoset-specific DNA microarray (EUMAMA): a new genetic
tool for large-scale expression profiling in a non-human primate.

Datson NA(1), Morsink MC, Atanasova S, Armstrong VW, Zischler H, Schlumbohm C,
Dutilh BE, Huynen MA, Waegele B, Ruepp A, de Kloet ER, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Pharmacology, Leiden/Amsterdam Center for Drug Research
and Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands.
datson_n@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl

BACKGROUND: The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus), a small
non-endangered New World primate native to eastern Brazil, is becoming
increasingly used as a non-human primate model in biomedical research, drug
development and safety assessment. In contrast to the growing interest for the
marmoset as an animal model, the molecular tools for genetic analysis are
extremely limited.
RESULTS: Here we report the development of the first marmoset-specific
oligonucleotide microarray (EUMAMA) containing probe sets targeting 1541
different marmoset transcripts expressed in hippocampus. These 1541 transcripts
represent a wide variety of different functional gene classes. Hybridisation of
the marmoset microarray with labelled RNA from hippocampus, cortex and a panel of
7 different peripheral tissues resulted in high detection rates of 85% in the
neuronal tissues and on average 70% in the non-neuronal tissues. The expression
profiles of the 2 neuronal tissues, hippocampus and cortex, were highly similar, 
as indicated by a correlation coefficient of 0.96. Several transcripts with a
tissue-specific pattern of expression were identified. Besides the marmoset
microarray we have generated 3215 ESTs derived from marmoset hippocampus, which
have been annotated and submitted to GenBank [GenBank: EF214838-EF215447,
EH380242-EH382846].
CONCLUSION: We have generated the first marmoset-specific DNA microarray and
demonstrated its use to characterise large-scale gene expression profiles of
hippocampus but also of other neuronal and non-neuronal tissues. In addition, we 
have generated a large collection of ESTs of marmoset origin, which are now
available in the public domain. These new tools will facilitate molecular genetic
research into this non-human primate animal model.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-8-190 
PMCID: PMC1929077
PMID: 17592630  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

