

2387. J Immunol. 2007 Jun 1;178(11):7151-61.

Genomics and diversity of the common marmoset monkey NK complex.

Averdam A(1), Kuhl H, Sontag M, Becker T, Hughes AL, Reinhardt R, Walter L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Primate Genetics, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that is
increasingly used in biomedical research as a model organism. Due to the
occurrence of natural bone marrow chimerism, it represents a particularly useful 
primate model in immunological research. In this study, we describe the genomic
organization of the CD94, NKG2, and LY49L genes in the NK complex (NKC) of the
common marmoset based on complete sequencing of a bacterial artificial chromosome
clonal contig. This region of the marmoset NKC is 1.5 times smaller than its
human counterpart, but the genes are colinear and orthologous. One exception is
the activating NKG2CE gene, which is probably an ancestral form of the NKG2C- and
NKG2E-activating receptor genes of humans and great apes. The two completely
sequenced marmoset bacterial artificial chromosome clones are derived from
distinct haplotypes, which differ by 200 sites in the overlapping sequence.
Analyses of NKC genes in nine additional marmoset individuals revealed a moderate
degree of polymorphism of the CD94, NKG2A, NKG2CE, and NKG2D genes. Furthermore, 
expression analyses identified several alternatively spliced transcripts,
particularly of the CD94 gene. Several products of alternative splicing of NKC
genes are highly conserved among primates. Alternative transcriptional start
sites were found, but these probably do not lead to a change of the translational
start site or result in longer or shorter cytoplasmic regions of these type II
membrane receptors.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.178.11.7151 
PMID: 17513764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

