

2389. Mol Endocrinol. 2007 Aug;21(8):1984-96. Epub 2007 May 15.

Genomic checkpoints for exon 10 usage in the luteinizing hormone receptor type 1 
and type 2.

Gromoll J(1), Lahrmann L, Godmann M, Müller T, Michel C, Stamm S, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital, D-48129 Münster,
Germany. Joerg.Gromoll@ukmuenster.de

Alternative splicing is a hallmark of glycoprotein hormone receptor gene
regulation, but its molecular mechanism is unknown. The LH receptor (LHR) gene
possesses 11 exons, but exon 10 is constitutively skipped in the New World monkey
lineage (LHR type 2), whereas it is constitutively spliced in the human (LHR type
1). This study identifies the regulatory elements of exon 10 usage. Sequencing of
genomic marmoset DNA revealed that the cryptic LHR exon 10 is highly homologous
to exon 10 from other species and displays intact splice sites. Functional
studies using a minigene approach excluded the contribution of intronic,
marmoset-specific long interspersed nucleotide-1 elements to exon 10 skipping.
Sequencing of the genomic regions surrounding exon 10 from several primate
lineages, sequence comparisons including the human and mouse LHR gene, revealed
the presence of unique nucleotides at 3'-intronic position -19 and -10 and at
position +26 within exon 10 of the marmoset LHR. Exon trap experiments and in
vitro mutagenesis of these nucleotides resulted in the identification of a
composite regulatory element of splicing consisting of cis-acting elements
represented by two polypyrimidine tracts and a trans-acting element within exon
10, which affect the secondary RNA structure. Changes within this complex
resulted either in constitutive exon inclusion, constitutive skipping, or
alternative splicing of exon 10. This work delineates the molecular pathway
leading to intronization of exon 10 in the LHR type 2 and reveals, for the first 
time, the essential function of regulatory and structural elements involved in
glycoprotein hormone receptor splicing.

DOI: 10.1210/me.2006-0506 
PMID: 17505059  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

