

2395. Tissue Antigens. 2007 Apr;69 Suppl 1:72-5.

The common marmoset as a novel preclinical transplant model: identification of
new MHC class II DRB alleles and prediction of in vitro alloreactivity.

Prasad S(1), Humphreys I, Kireta S, Gilchrist RB, Bardy P, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Immunology Laboratory, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital,
Woodville, SA, Australia.

The difficulties with using nonhuman primate species such as rhesus macaques and 
baboons have led us to investigate the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as an
alternative preclinical model for transplantation research. This requires
reliable methods of detecting alloreactivity between donor and recipient pairs,
particularly if colonies are inbred and share just a few common alleles for
leucocyte antigens. We firstly identified marmoset major histocompatibility
complex (MHC) Class II DRB genes (Caja-DRB*W1201, Caja-DRB1*03, Caja-DRB*W16)
using sequence-based typing techniques. Genomic DNA (n= 49) was extracted from
whole blood or spleen tissue. Exon 2 of target genes was amplified by PCR using
primers specific for known marmoset alleles, and then sequenced using ABI
PRISM((R)) Big Dye Terminator technology and Assign sequence analysis software.
DRB*W1201 was universally present. Eight DRB*W16 alleles and five DRB1*03 alleles
were identified in this colony. We also identified two previously unreported
DRB*W16 alleles, and confirmed inheritance of these alleles within several
sibling groups. Subsequently, we investigated whether matching at MHC Class II
DRB loci alone could predict alloreactivity, as assessed in vitro by two-way
mixed lymphocyte reactions (MLRs). Fully DRB-matched, partially mismatched and
fully mismatched animal pairs were prospectively chosen. MLR was performed using 
mononuclear cells (MNC) isolated from whole blood by density gradient separation.
T-cell proliferation after 5-day culture was measured by (3)H-thymidine
incorporation. Combined MNC from fully mismatched and partially mismatched animal
pairs exhibited significant in vitro T-cell proliferation above single cell
controls (P < 0.01). MNC from fully DRB-matched (but unrelated) animal pairs
exhibited no proliferation compared with controls (P= 0.3). Using DRB genotyping,
suitably alloreactive donor-recipient pairs may therefore be rapidly and
accurately identified for use in further studies of cellular and solid organ
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0039.2006.760_7.x 
PMID: 17445171  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

