

2398. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Mar;25(6):1767-79.

Development of non-phosphorylated neurofilament protein expression in neurones of
the New World monkey dorsolateral frontal cortex.

Burman KJ(1), Lui LL, Rosa MG, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Victoria, Australia.

We studied developmental changes in the expression of non-phosphorylated
neurofilament protein (NNF) (a marker of the structural maturation of pyramidal
neurones) in the dorsolateral frontal cortex of marmoset monkeys, between
embryonic day 130 and adulthood. Our focus was on cortical fields that send
strong projections to extrastriate cortex, including the dorsal and ventral
subdivisions of area 8A, area 46 and area 6d. For comparison, we also
investigated the maturation of prefrontal area 9, which has few or no connections
with visual areas. The timing of expression of NNF immunostaining in early life
can be described as the result of the interaction of two developmental gradients.
First, there is an anteroposterior gradient of maturation in the frontal lobe,
whereby neurones in caudal areas express NNF earlier than those in rostral areas.
Second, there is a laminar gradient, whereby the first NNF-immunoreactive
neurones emerge in layer V, followed by those in progressively more superficial
parts of layer III. Following a peak in density of NNF-immunopositive cell
numbers in layer V at 2-3 months of age, there is a gradual decline towards
adulthood. In contrast, the density of immunopositive cells in layer III
continues to increase throughout the first postnatal year in area 6d and until
late adolescence (> 1.5 years of age) in prefrontal areas. The present results
support the view that the maturation of visual cognitive functions involves
relatively late processes linked to structural changes in frontal cortical areas.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05442.x 
PMID: 17432964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

