

2399. Invest Clin. 2007 Mar;48(1):57-67.

[Obtention of a heterohybridoma for production of type IgM monoclonal antibodies 
against the D antigen of the Rh system].

[Article in Spanish]

León-González G(1), Cruz C.

Author information: 
(1)Banco Municipal de Sangre del Distrito Capital, Esquina de Pirineos San José, 
Caracas, Venezuela. gonzaleo@cantv.net

The objective was to obtain a heterohybridoma capable of producing a monoclonal
antibody with IgM type anti-D specificity (Rh system), that could be used as a
reactive for hemoclasification. Mononuclear cells (MNC) were extracted from a
blood sample of a highly sensitized woman, five days after giving birth to an Rh 
positive child. These were then transformed with the culture supernatant (CSN) of
B05.8 cells, rich in Epstein Barr virus (EBV). Once transformed and in
exponential growth, they were fused with K6H6/B5 line cells using PEG 4.000 as a 
fusing agent in a 1:1 proportion. After fusion, they were seeded in culture
plates in order to evaluate the formation of hybrids and the secretion of
specific antibodies in the CSN of each well. The efficiency of the fusion was 1.8
x 10(-6), making it possible to obtain an anti-D IgM producing clone, which we
named BMS-9. This clone could be maintained in constant culture for three months,
producing antibodies in a concentration of 4 microg/mL in de CSN. It was also
possible to obtain antibodies with an Artificial Capilar System (ACS) reaching a 
concentration of 24 microg/mL. Potency was determined using Ror cells. In CSN at 
immediate centrifugation (IC): 1 x 32, score 52; 15' from incubation at room
temperature (RT): 1 x 1,024 score 105. With that ACS product at IC: 1 x 32 score 
54; 15' from incubation at RT: 1 x 8.192 score 136; and a 37 degrees C: 1 x 8,192
score 136. Reactivity was detected with red cells D(IIIa), D(IV), D(Va), D(VI)
type IV, D(VII), DFR, DNU, STEM+, DAR and DAU. There was no reactivity with red
cells D(IIIc), DI(Va), D(V) type II, D(VI) types I, II y III, Ro(HAR), DOL and
weak D type II. During field study, no false negative or false positive reactions
were detected. A stable heterohybridoma was obtained, producer of IgM type
anti-D, with enough qualities to be used in blood typing. Given the excellent
qualities of the antibody, we are evaluating dilution media and the addition of
type IgG antibodies in order to manufacture a reactive for use in
hemoclassification.


PMID: 17432544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

