

24. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2022 Mar 1;61(2):113-131. doi:
10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-21-000061. Epub 2022 Jan 7.

Factors Affecting Hematologic and Serum Biochemical Parameters in Healthy Common 
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Kramer RM(1), Sheh A(1), Toolan CH(1), Muthupalani S(1), Carrasco SE(1), Artim
SC(1), Burns MA(1), Fox JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA.

Physiologic changes during development, aging, and pregnancy may affect clinical 
parameters. Previously available reference values have been based on samples that
may include wild and captive marmosets, with little representation of geriatric
or pregnant animals. Establishing reference values under various conditions would
support better recognition of pathologic conditions in marmosets. One hundred and
forty-seven (70 males and 77 females) healthy marmosets from a research colony
were included in this study. Exclusion criteria were abnormal physical exam
findings at the time of blood sampling, chronic medications, or clinical or
pathologic evidence of disease. Reference intervals were calculated for serum
chemistry and hematology. Using metadata, samples were classified based on age,
sex, colony source and pregnancy status. Multiple tests indicated significant
differences with varying effect sizes, indicating that developing reference
intervals based on metadata can be useful. Across all the comparisons, medium or 
large effect sizes were observed most frequently in blood urea nitrogen (BUN),
calcium, total protein, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), weight and serum albumin. We 
report normative clinical pathologic data for captive common marmosets through
all life stages and reproductive status. Significant differences were observed in
most parameters when stratifying data based on age, sex, colony source, or
pregnancy, suggesting that developing reference intervals considering this
information is important for clinicians.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-JAALAS-21-000061 
PMID: 34996528 

