

2401. J Neuroendocrinol. 2007 May;19(5):354-63.

Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release in marmosets II: pulsatile release
of GnRH and pituitary gonadotrophin in adult females.

Tannenbaum PL(1), Schultz-Darken NJ, Woller MJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.

Unlike other mammals, including rodents, Old World primates and humans, common
marmosets and probably all other New World primates synthesise and release
chorionic gonadotrophin (CG), and not luteinising hormone (LH) from pituitary
gonadotrophs. However, little is known about the physiological dynamics of
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH)-regulated CG release from gonadotrophs and
whether such CG release has pulsatile release characteristics similar to those of
LH in other mammalian species. Consequently, we performed a series of in vivo and
in vitro studies in ovariectomised laboratory rats and female marmosets to
compare GnRH-induced pituitary LH and CG release characteristics, respectively.
Exogenous GnRH stimulated a slower onset of release of marmoset pituitary CG,
both in vivo and in vitro, and induced an approximately 400% greater increase in 
the duration of marmoset pituitary CG release compared to that for rat LH. Not
surprisingly, hypothalamic pulsatile release of GnRH in vivo was not obviously
concordant with endogenous episodic changes in circulating levels of CG in
marmosets, in contrast to the clear concordance observed between in vivo GnRH and
LH release previously demonstrated in rats and other mammals. Pituitary CG
release in marmosets thus demonstrates considerable divergence from the timely
hypothalamic GnRH-regulated LH release in other female mammals, implying
potentially different physiological dynamics in gonadotrophin regulation of
marmoset ovarian function.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2826.2007.01535.x 
PMID: 17425610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

