

2404. J Physiol. 2007 Jun 15;581(Pt 3):1083-100. Epub 2007 Apr 5.

Linking lateral interactions in flicker perception to lateral geniculate nucleus 
cell responses.

Kozyrev V(1), Silveira LC, Kremers J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Ophthalmology, University of TÃ¼bingen Eye Hospital,
Germany.

The perception of flicker strength in a circular stimulus can be changed by
altering the relative temporal phase of a simultaneously flickering surrounding
annulus: perceived flicker is weak when the two stimuli are modulated in-phase
and strong when the two are modulated in counter-phase. Previously, we found that
responses of single neurons in the monkey lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) to
such stimuli resemble the psychophysical data. On the basis of the resemblance in
data, it was proposed that the physiological basis for the flicker perception may
be present as proximal as the LGN. To strengthen this hypothesis, we simulated
the response of an array of LGN neurons, the receptive fields (RFs) of which are 
covered by the stimulus. The simulations were based upon single-cell recordings
in the LGN of anaesthetized marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) using the same stimuli
as previously. The measurements were repeated for different spatial displacement 
between the stimulus and the RF. The responses depended upon the spatial
displacement and the relative phase between centre and surround stimuli. The
neuronal responses can be adequately described by a difference-of-Gaussians (DOG)
model with a time delay in the RF surround. The model responses at different
displacements can be considered to be identical to the output of an array of
ideal and identical LGN cells with different RF locations. To be able to describe
physiological and psychophysical data, obtained at different stimulus contrasts, 
it was necessary to consider previously described non-linear interactions between
the RF centres and surrounds. We applied a spatial peak-to-trough detector with a
subsequent saturation and threshold to simulate a simple cortical decision
mechanism. The output of this peak-to-trough detector could adequately describe
the psychophysical data.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2007.129486 
PMCID: PMC2170833
PMID: 17412770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

