

2405. J Virol. 2007 Jun;81(12):6482-90. Epub 2007 Apr 4.

Lassa virus infection in experimentally infected marmosets: liver pathology and
immunophenotypic alterations in target tissues.

Carrion R Jr(1), Brasky K, Mansfield K, Johnson C, Gonzales M, Ticer A,
Lukashevich I, Tardif S, Patterson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology and Immunology, Southwest National Primate Research
Center, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, P.O. Box 760549, San
Antonio, TX 78245-0549, USA.

Lassa virus causes thousands of deaths annually in western Africa and is
considered a potential biological weapon. In an attempt to develop a small
nonhuman primate model of Lassa fever, common marmosets were subcutaneously
inoculated with Lassa virus strain Josiah. This inoculation resulted in a
systemic disease with clinical and morphological features mirroring those in
fatal human Lassa infection: fever, weight loss, high viremia and viral RNA load 
in tissues, elevated liver enzymes, and severe morbidity between days 15 and 20. 
The most prominent histopathology findings included multifocal hepatic necrosis
with mild inflammation and hepatocyte proliferation, lymphoid depletion, and
interstitial nephritis. Cellular aggregates in regions of hepatocellular necrosis
were largely composed of HAM56-positive macrophages, devoid of CD3-positive and
CD20-positive cells, and characterized by marked reductions in the intensity of
HLA-DP, DQ, DR staining. A marked reduction in the major histocompatibility
complex class II expression was also observed in the lymph nodes.
Immunophenotypic alterations in spleen included reductions in overall numbers of 
CD20-positive and CD3-positive cells and the disruption of lymphoid follicular
architecture. These findings identify the common marmoset as an appropriate model
of human Lassa fever and present the first experimental evidence that replication
of Lassa virus in tissues is associated with alterations that would be expected
to impair adaptive immunity.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02876-06 
PMCID: PMC1900113
PMID: 17409137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

