

2406. Am J Primatol. 2007 Aug;69(8):877-89.

Treatment with CRH-1 antagonist antalarmin reduces behavioral and endocrine
responses to social stressors in marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

French JA(1), Fite JE, Jensen H, Oparowski K, Rukstalis MR, Fix H, Jones B,
Maxwell H, Pacer M, Power ML, Schulkin J.

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, NE
68182, USA. jfrench@mail.unomaha.edu

Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) has multiple roles in coordinating the
behavioral and endocrine responses to a host of environmental challenges,
including social stressors. In the present study we evaluated the role of CRH in 
mediating responses to a moderate social stressor in Wied's black tufted-eared
marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii). Male and female marmosets (n=14) were administered
antalarmin (a selective CRH-1 receptor antagonist; 50 microg/kg, p.o.) or vehicle
in a blind, counterbalanced, crossover design. One hr after treatment, marmosets 
were separated from long-term pairmates and then housed alone in a novel
enclosure for 7 hr. Behavior was recorded during separation and upon reunion with
the partner, and urine samples for cortisol assay collected before, during, and
after the intervention. Separation from partners elevated urinary cortisol
concentrations over baseline for both conditions, but antalarmin treatment
reduced the magnitude of the elevation. Antalarmin also lowered rates of
behavioral patterns associated with arousal (alarm and "e-e" vocalizations,
object manipulate/chew), but had no effect on contact calls, locomotory activity 
or alertness. Although most patterns of social behavior upon reunion with the
partner were not affected by antalarmin, antalarmin-treated marmosets displayed
more sexual behavior (mounts and copulations) upon reunion. These data indicate
that antagonism of the CRH-1 receptor acts to reduce the magnitude of both
endocrine and behavioral responses to a moderate social stressor without causing 
any overall reduction in alertness or general activity. This supports the
hypothesis that CRH, acting through its type 1 receptor, is involved in
coordinating the responses to anxiety-producing events. These results further
suggest that the marmoset is a useful model for exploration of the role of CRH in
mediating the behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to psychosocial stressors, 
particularly in the context of heterosexual social relationships.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20385 
PMCID: PMC2987612
PMID: 17397037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

