

2409. Am J Primatol. 2007 Nov;69(11):1210-22.

Response to novel food and the role of social influences in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) and Goeldi's monkeys (Callimico goeldii).

Addessi E(1), Chiarotti F, Visalberghi E, Anzenberger G.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of ZÃ¼rich, Switzerland.
elsa.addessi@istc.cnr.it

Neophobia, defined as showing caution toward novel features of the environment,
is widespread in birds and mammals; it can be affected by ecology, early
experience, and social context. In this study, we aimed to (i) investigate the
response to novel food in adult common marmosets and Goeldi's monkeys and (ii)
assess the role of social influences. We used an experimental paradigm employed
previously with capuchin monkeys and children, in which a subject (observer) was 
presented with a novel food under three conditions: (i) Presence: group members
did not have food; (ii) Different color: group members received familiar food
whose color differed from that of the observer's novel food; (iii) Same color:
group members received familiar food of the same color as the observer's novel
food. Although most common marmosets tasted and/or ate the novel food, none of
the Goeldi's monkeys ate it and only two sampled it. Differences in home range
size and early social experience might explain the divergent behavior of the two 
species. Observers of both species similarly attended to group members and their 
visual attention increased with the number of group members eating, especially
when the observer's and group members' foods were perceptually similar. However, 
we observed social influences on explorative behavior in Goeldi's monkeys but not
on explorative or eating behavior in common marmosets. This result might be
explained by the different pattern of response to novel food observed in the two 
species. Moreover, social influences on Goeldi's monkeys' behavior were
nonspecific, i.e. they were not based on an appreciation that the food is safe
because eaten by group members.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20429 
PMID: 17387731  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

