

241. Curr Biol. 2020 Dec 21;30(24):5026-5032.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.09.049. Epub 
2020 Oct 15.

Domestication Phenotype Linked to Vocal Behavior in Marmoset Monkeys.

Ghazanfar AA(1), Kelly LM(2), Takahashi DY(2), Winters S(3), Terrett R(4), Higham
JP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA;
Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ
08544, USA. Electronic address: asifg@princeton.edu.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA.
(3)Department of Anthropology, New York University, New York, NY 10003, USA; New 
York Consortium in Evolutionary Primatology, New York, NY 10016, USA.
(4)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton,
NJ 08544, USA.

The domestication syndrome refers to a set of traits that are the by-products of 
artificial selection for increased tolerance toward humans [1-3]. One hypothesis 
is that some species, like humans and bonobos, "self-domesticated" and have been 
under selection for that same suite of domesticated phenotypes [4-8]. However,
the evidence for this has been largely circumstantial. Here, we provide evidence 
that, in marmoset monkeys, the size of a domestication phenotype-a white facial
fur patch-is linked to their degree of affiliative vocal responding. During
development, the amount of parental vocal feedback experienced influences the
rate of growth of this facial white patch, and this suggests a mechanistic link
between the two phenotypes, possibly via neural crest cells. Our study provides
evidence for links between vocal behavior and the development of morphological
phenotypes associated with domestication in a nonhuman primate.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.09.049 
PMCID: PMC8204797
PMID: 33065007  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

