

2414. J Comp Neurol. 2007 May 20;502(3):442-54.

OFF midget bipolar cells in the retina of the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
express AMPA receptors.

Puller C(1), Haverkamp S, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroanatomy, Max-Planck-Institute for Brain Research, D-60528
Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

Recent studies suggested that different types of OFF bipolar cells express
specific types of ionotropic (AMPA or kainate) glutamate receptors (GluRs) at
their contacts with cone pedicles. However, the question of which GluR type is
expressed by which type of OFF bipolar cell in primate retina is still open. In
this study, the expression of AMPA and kainate receptor subunits at the dendritic
tips of flat (OFF) midget bipolar (FMB) cells was analyzed in the retina of the
common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus. We used preembedding electron microscopy and
double immunofluorescence with subunit-specific antibodies. The FMB cells were
labeled with antibodies against the carbohydrate epitope CD15. Cone pedicles were
identified with peanut agglutinin. Immunoreactivity for the GluR1 subunit and for
CD15 is preferentially located at triad-associated flat contacts. Furthermore,
the large majority of GluR1 immunoreactive puncta is localized at the dendritic
tips of FMB cells. These results suggest that FMB cells express the AMPA receptor
subunit GluR1. In contrast, the kainate receptor subunit GluR5 is not colocalized
with the dendritic tips of FMB cells or with the GluR1 subunit. Immunoreactive
puncta for the GluR1 subunit are found at all M/L-cone pedicles but are only
rarely associated with S-cone pedicles. This is consistent with our recent
findings in marmoset retina that FMB cells do not contact S-cone pedicles. The
presence of GluR5 clusters at S-cone pedicles indicates that in primate retinas
OFF bipolar cells expressing kainate receptor subunits receive some S-cone input.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21315 
PMID: 17366611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

