

2415. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2007 May;32(4):331-49. Epub 2007 Mar 23.

Behavioral and physiological effects of an infant-neglect manipulation in a
bi-parental, twinning primate: impact is dependent on familial factors.

Dettling AC(1), Schnell CR, Maier C, Feldon J, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
ZÃ¼rich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

Experimental animal studies and epidemiological and clinical human studies
demonstrate that atypical infant-caregiving can exert short- and long-term
effects on offspring phenotype, including increased long-term risk of affective
disorders. Whilst the early environment is therefore a major determinant of
behavioral, physiological and neurobiological phenotypes, the effects of early
adversity exhibit individual variation, presumably due to differences in
environment-genotype interactions. Twin studies provide a powerful model with
which to study such interactions. However, human twin studies rarely include
analysis of genotype-environment interactions or of individuals exposed to
extreme environments, and rat studies have rarely attempted to utilize
littermates (i.e. dizygotic twins) to investigate environment-genotype
interactions. Here, we report on the effects of repeated deprivation of
caregiving in the common marmoset, a primate that exhibits dizygotic twinning and
bi-parental care. Breeding pairs each contributed early deprived (ED) twins and
control (CON) twins, thereby allowing for the study of effects of ED, parentage
and ED-parentage interaction. Significant ED x parentage interaction effects were
obtained for basal urinary, plasma and cerebrospinal-fluid cortisol titers
(infancy-adolescence), and basal levels of social and maintenance behaviors
(juveniles); basal urinary cortisol titers during a 2-week period of repeated
psychosocial challenge (juveniles), and social and exploratory behavior during
psychosocial challenge (juveniles). Significant main effects of ED were obtained 
for: basal levels of time spent in contact with parents (ED>CON; juveniles) and
in locomotor activity (ED<CON; adolescents); basal and
psychosocial-stress-related systolic blood pressure (ED>CON; juveniles); time
spent in locomotor activity (ED<CON), contact calling (ED<CON) and exploring
novelty (ED>CON) during psychosocial challenge (juveniles). This study provides
evidence for long-term effects of early environment on bio-behavioral traits and 
states in marmosets specifically, and the importance of including parental
factors in developmental studies in mammals generally.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2007.01.005 
PMID: 17363175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

