

2416. Vision Res. 2007 Apr;47(9):1228-44. Epub 2007 Mar 13.

Accommodation and induced myopia in marmosets.

Troilo D(1), Quinn N, Baker K.

Author information: 
(1)The New England College of Optometry, 424 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02115,
USA. troilod@neco.edu

Accommodation may indirectly influence visually guided eye growth by affecting
the retinal defocus signal used to guide growth. Specifically, increased lags of 
accommodation associated with low stimulus-response (S-R) function slopes will
impose increased hyperopic blur on the retina and may induce axial elongation and
myopia. The purpose of this study was (1) to measure accommodation in awake, free
viewing marmosets and (2) compare accommodation behavior in marmosets before and 
after inducing different amounts of myopia with binocular spectacle lenses. In
untreated marmosets, the average accommodation S-R slope approached one, but
showed considerable inter-individual variability (mean+/-SD: 0.964+/-0.249 for
monocular viewing; 0.895+/-0.235 for binocular viewing; monocular and binocular
measures not significantly different). The monocular S-R slopes were
significantly reduced following a period of lens rearing that produced axial
myopia (change in slope=-0.30+/-0.30, p<.01) and the reduction in slope was
proportional to the amount of myopia induced (p<.01). The S-R slopes measured
either under monocular or binocular conditions before induction of myopia were
not well correlated with the degree of myopia induced (monocular: r=-.240,
p=.453; binocular: r=-.060, p=.824). These results support the hypothesis that
the reduction in S-R slope in myopes is a consequence of the myopia induced. The 
alternative hypothesis-that low S-R slope increases susceptibility to the
development of myopia--is not supported by the weak correlation between the
pre-manipulation S-R slopes and the magnitude of the myopic shift.

DOI: 10.1016/j.visres.2007.01.018 
PMCID: PMC1892168
PMID: 17360018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

