

2417. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2007 Oct;32(10):2163-72. Epub 2007 Mar 14.

SB-649915-B, a novel 5-HT1A/B autoreceptor antagonist and serotonin reuptake
inhibitor, is anxiolytic and displays fast onset activity in the rat high light
social interaction test.

Starr KR(1), Price GW, Watson JM, Atkinson PJ, Arban R, Melotto S, Dawson LA,
Hagan JJ, Upton N, Duxon MS.

Author information: 
(1)Schizophrenia and Bipolar Research, Psychiatry Centre of Excellence in Drug
Discovery, GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park, Essex CM19 5AW, UK.

Preclinically, the combination of an SSRI and 5-HT autoreceptor antagonist has
been shown to reduce the time to onset of anxiolytic activity compared to an SSRI
alone. In accordance with this, clinical data suggest the coadministration of an 
SSRI and (+/-) pindolol can decrease the time to onset of
anxiolytic/antidepressant activity. Thus, the dual-acting novel SSRI and
5-HT(1A/B) receptor antagonist, SB-649915-B, has been assessed in acute and
chronic preclinical models of anxiolysis. SB-649915-B (0.1-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.)
significantly reduced ultrasonic vocalization in male rat pups separated from
their mothers (ED(50) of 0.17 mg/kg). In the marmoset human threat test
SB-649915-B (3.0 and 10 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly reduced the number of postures
with no effect on locomotion. In the rat high light social interaction (SI),
SB-649915-B (1.0-7.5 mg/kg, t.i.d.) and paroxetine (3.0 mg/kg, once daily) were
orally administered for 4, 7, and 21 days. Ex vivo inhibition of [(3)H]5-HT
uptake was also measured following SI. SB-649915-B and paroxetine had no effect
on SI after 4 days. In contrast to paroxetine, SB-649915-B (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg,
p.o., t.i.d.) significantly (p<0.05) increased SI time with no effect on
locomotion, indicative of an anxiolytic-like profile on day 7. Anxiolysis was
maintained after chronic (21 days) administration by which time paroxetine also
increased SI significantly. 5-HT uptake was inhibited by SB-649915-B at all time 
points to a similar magnitude as that seen with paroxetine. In conclusion,
SB-649915-B is acutely anxiolytic and reduces the latency to onset of anxiolytic 
behavior compared to paroxetine in the SI model.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.npp.1301341 
PMID: 17356576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

