

2419. Behav Pharmacol. 2007 Mar;18(2):155-60.

Plasma levels of rotigotine and the reversal of motor deficits in MPTP-treated
primates.

Rose S(1), Scheller DK, Breidenbach A, Smith L, Jackson M, Stockwell K, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)aNeurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College London, UK.

Rotigotine is a nonergolinic dopamine D3/D2/D1-receptor agonist used clinically
for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. This study aimed to determine the
relationship between peak antiparkinsonian activity and drug plasma levels after 
administration of rotigotine to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropytidine-treated primates. Using single
subcutaneous injections of rotigotine and blood sampling at two subsequent time
points, the relationship between improvement in motor activity and plasma
rotigotine level was evaluated in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropytidine-treated common marmosets. Rotigotine
(0.01875-0.3 mg/kg subcutaneously) produced an increase in locomotor activity
even at the lowest dose tested. Total increase in motor activity and duration of 
drug effect were dose related. Motor disability was similarly improved by
rotigotine in a dose-dependent manner. At the highest doses, hyperactivity and
stereotypy were observed. Plasma concentrations of rotigotine were linearly
related to dose over dosage range employed, but not to behavioral response.
Results show that pulsatile administration of rotigotine effectively normalizes
motor activity in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropytidine-treated marmosets.
Although dose and plasma concentrations of rotigotine are closely related, drug
effects in the brain measured as locomotion and improvement of disability
dissociate from plasma levels. Plasma levels corresponding to the optimal dose
range (0.01875-0.075 mg/kg) will guide a continuous administration regimen of
rotigotine in a subsequent study using the same experimental model of Parkinson's
disease.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0b013e3280ebb400 
PMID: 17351422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

