

2421. J Comp Neurol. 2007 May 1;502(1):126-40.

Connections of diffuse bipolar cells in primate retina are biased against
S-cones.

Lee SC(1), Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, VIC 3053, Australia.

In mammalian retina, each diffuse bipolar type stratifies in a distinct layer of 
the inner plexiform layer. Thus, different types of bipolar cells provide output 
to distinct visual pathways. Here, the question of whether diffuse bipolar cell
types differ with respect to their contacts with short wavelength-sensitive (S-) 
cones was investigated in the retinas of a New World monkey, Callithrix jacchus, 
and an Old World monkey, Macaca fascicularis. Subpopulations of OFF bipolar cells
were labeled with antibodies to the glutamate transporter Glt-1 and ON bipolar
cells were labeled with antibodies to the alpha subunit of the Go protein
(Goalpha). Two types of diffuse ON bipolar cells, DB4 and DB6, were identified
with antibodies to protein kinase Calpha and CD15, respectively. Cone pedicles
were labeled either with peanut agglutinin coupled to fluorescein or with
antibodies to the ribbon protein, C-terminus binding protein 2. We found that
immunoreactivity for Glt-1 (OFF bipolar cells) is reduced at S-cones in
comparison to medium/long wavelength-sensitive (M/L-) cones. Immunoreactivity for
Goalpha (ON bipolar cells) is comparable at all cone types. Nearly all M/L-cone
pedicles contact the diffuse ON bipolar types DB4 and DB6, but only between 60%
and 75% of the S-cone pedicles make contact. Furthermore, the number of dendritic
tips of DB4 and DB6 cells at S-cone pedicles is lower than that at M/L-cone
pedicles. These results suggest that there is a bias in the S-cone connectivity
of diffuse bipolar cells.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21284 
PMID: 17335043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

