

2422. J Comp Neurol. 2007 May 1;502(1):86-112.

Forebrain connectivity of the prefrontal cortex in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus): an anterograde and retrograde tract-tracing study.

Roberts AC(1), Tomic DL, Parkinson CH, Roeling TA, Cutter DJ, Robbins TW, Everitt
BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, CB2 3EB, UK. acr4@cam.ac.uk

The cortical and subcortical forebrain connections of the marmoset prefrontal
cortex (PFC) were examined by injecting the retrograde tracer, choleratoxin, and 
the anterograde tracer, biotin dextran amine, into four sites within the PFC. Two
of the sites, the lateral and orbital regions, had previously been shown to
provide functionally dissociable contributions to distinct forms of behavioral
flexibility, attentional set-shifting and discrimination reversal learning,
respectively. The dysgranular and agranular regions lying on the orbital and
medial surfaces of the frontal lobes were most closely connected with limbic
structures including cingulate cortex, amygdala, parahippocampal cortex,
subiculum, hippocampus, hypothalamus, medial caudate nucleus, and nucleus
accumbens as well as the magnocellular division of the mediodorsal nucleus of the
thalamus and midline thalamic nuclei, consistent with findings in the rhesus
monkey. In contrast, the granular region on the dorsal surface closely resembled 
area 8Ad in macaques and had connections restricted to posterior parietal cortex 
primarily associated with visuospatial functions. However, it also had
connections with limbic cortex, including retrosplenial and caudal cingulate
cortex as well as auditory processing regions in the superior temporal cortex.
The granular region on the lateral convexity had the most extensive connections. 
Based on its architectonics and functionality, it resembled areas 12/45 in
macaques. It had connections with high-order visual processing regions in the
inferotemporal cortex and posterior parietal cortex, higher-order auditory and
polymodal processing regions in the superior temporal cortex. In addition it had 
extensive connections with limbic regions including the amygdala, parahippocampal
cortex, cingulate, and retrosplenial cortex.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21300 
PMID: 17335041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

