

2423. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 2007 Jan;62(1):70-88.

[Pathological and biochemical studies of 30 Niigata autopsy cases related to
Minamata disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Eto K(1), Takahashi H, Kakita A, Tokunaga H, Yasutake A, Nakano A, Sawada M,
Kinjo Y.

Author information: 
(1)f National Institute for Minamata Disease, 4058-18 Hama, Minamata City,
Kumamoto 867-0008, Japan. kometo@nimd.go.jp

OBJECTIVES: To reevaluate pathologically and biochemically 30 autopsy cases
related to Minamata disease (MD) in Niigata Prefecture (NP) and compare the
findings with those of autopsy cases related to MD in Kumamoto Prefecture (KP).
METHODS: Recently, a set of pathological materials of these 30 autopsy cases has 
been sent from the Brain Research Institute at the University of Niigata to the
National Institute for Minamata Disease (NIMD). The materials from each autopsy
case were reexamined at the NIMD.
RESULTS: There were no postnatal and fetal cases of MD in the NP autopsy
materials. The contents of total mercury (T-Hg), methylmercury (Me-Hg), inorganic
mercury (I-Hg) and selenium were measured in the organs of cerebrum, cerebellum, 
liver and kidney. The contents of T-Hg, Me-Hg and I-Hg were much higher in two
cases than in controls. The pathological findings leading to the diagnosis of MD 
in the NP cases were essentially the same as those in KP, including the
peripheral nerve lesions. In the most severely affected case of MD in NP,
formation of multiple vacuoles of various sizes was observed in the cerebellar
cortex, which was never encountered in the KP cases. The KP lesions were similar 
to that observed in an acute case of Me-Hg-treated common marmoset studied in the
NIMD.
CONCLUSION: The pathological features were essentially the same between the adult
cases of MD in NP and KP.


PMID: 17334095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

