

2440. Vet Microbiol. 2007 Apr 15;121(3-4):363-7. Epub 2006 Dec 22.

Yersiniosis in zoo marmosets (Callitrix jacchuss) caused by Yersinia
enterocolitica 4/O:3.

Fredriksson-Ahomaa M(1), Naglic T, Turk N, Seol B, GrabareviÄ‡ Z, Bata I, Perkovic
D, Stolle A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Hygiene and Technology of Food of Animal Origin, Ludwig
Maximilian University, Munich, Germany. m.fredriksson@lmu.de

The aim of this research was to describe two fatal cases of Yersinia
enterocolitica bioserotype 4/O:3 infection in non-human primates and to
characterise the isolates by PCR and PFGE. In July 2004, two marmosets (Callitrix
jacchuss) born in captivity in Zagreb Zoo, died following a few days of
intermittent diarrhoea in intervals of 2 weeks. The pathomorphological diagnosis 
of the female (born in 1997) and the male (born in 1995) marmoset, was
disseminated miliary necrosis of the liver. Y. enterocolitica 4/O:3 was isolated 
from both livers showing that monkeys are susceptible to this bioserotype. The
ail gene, which is an essential chromosomal virulence factor in pathogenic Y.
enterocolitica isolates, was present in the marmoset isolates. Two different PFGE
patterns were obtained from the isolates of the male liver with NotI enzyme. One 
genotype of the male marmoset isolate was indistinguishable from the genotype of 
the female marmoset isolate when NotI, ApaI and XhoI enzymes were used indicating
a common infection source for the marmosets. The genotypes of the marmoset
isolates differed only slightly from one human (of seven Croatian isolates) and
from one pig isolate (representing a common genotype found among human and
porcine isolates in Germany) suggesting that raw pork fed to the marmoset could
have been the infection source.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetmic.2006.12.010 
PMID: 17223285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

