

2441. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2007 Feb;265-266:93-101. Epub 2007 Jan 10.

Gender and gonadal status differences in zona reticularis expression in marmoset 
monkey adrenals: Cytochrome b5 localization with respect to cytochrome P450
17,20-lyase activity.

Pattison JC(1), Saltzman W, Abbott DH, Hogan BK, Nguyen AD, Husen B, Einspanier
A, Conley AJ, Bird IM.

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Research Laboratories, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53715, USA.

Neonatal marmosets express an adrenal fetal zone comparable to humans. While
adult males fail to express a functional ZR, with barely detectable blood DHEA
levels, females produce higher levels of DHEA than males in adulthood. We
investigated the presence of a putative functional ZR in adult female marmosets. 
In contrast to males, immunohistochemical analysis showed the ZR marker
cytochrome b5 was elevated in the innermost zone in cycling females (compared to 
testis-intact males), further elevated in the adrenals from anovulatory females, 
and substantially elevated and continuous in ovariectomized females. As a
functional test in vivo, following overnight dexamethasone treatment, cycling and
anovulatory females showed higher levels of DHEA relative to males, but DHEA
failed to increase in response to ACTH. In direct contrast, while ovariectomized 
females exhibited lower initial DHEA levels, clear increases were detectable
after ACTH administration (p<0.05), suggesting an adrenal origin. The apparent
differences in cytochrome b5 expression between groups were also further verified
by Western blotting of adrenal microsomes, and compared to 17,20-lyase activity; 
the two parameters were positively correlated (p<0.01) across multiple treatment 
groups. We conclude that the cycling female marmoset expresses a rudimentary ZR
with at least a capacity for DHEA production that becomes significantly
ACTH-responsive after anovulation. Expression of cytochrome b5 in this region may
be directly or indirectly controlled by gonadal function, and is, at least in
part, a critical determinant in the development of an adrenal ZR that is more
defined and significantly ACTH-responsive.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2006.12.023 
PMCID: PMC1839875
PMID: 17222503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

