

2443. J Med Primatol. 2006 Dec;35(6):361-8.

GnRH-antagonist mediated down-regulation of the estrous cycle in marmosets.

Luetjens CM(1), Wesselmann R, Kuhlmann M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, MÃ¼nster, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Because of its small size and unproblematic captivity behavior the
marmoset monkey is an attractive New World primate model for early developmental 
questions. However, superovulation protocols used in Old World monkeys and women 
are not successful in the female marmoset. A novel protocol is needed to utilize 
these New World monkeys as an efficient animal model for in vitro fertilization
experiments or embryo stem cell research.
METHODS: To create such a protocol we first examined the effects of long-term
estrous cycle control, secondly, in a dose-finding study, we determined the
length of a down-regulation protocol with a gonadotropic releasing hormone
(GnRH)-antagonist. Twenty-nine female marmosets were grouped according to the
number of estrous cycles, which had been controlled for a period of 12 months in 
which 88 cycles were monitored. Application of PGF2alpha in the mid-luteal phase 
led to immediate onset of the follicular phase. The blood progesterone
concentration rapidly declined and increased again on day 9-11.
RESULTS: The results show that the controlled ovarian cycle length and
progesterone response are not altered by the number of PGF2alpha injections. The 
rapid decline was similar in all groups, indicating that all animals, independent
of the number of controlled cycles, react equally to multiple PGF2alpha
injections. To determine the proper dosage for a GnRH-antagonist (Cetrorelix), 12
animals in three groups of four female marmosets were treated with two different 
dosages and a sham dosage. Cetrorelix was applied in the mid-luteal phase, three 
times over 2 days. In both Cetrorelix-treated animal groups the early
progesterone levels matched those in the controls. In the low-dose treatment
group [0.01 mg/100 g body weight (BW)] the expected progesterone rise on day 10
was delayed between 9 and 15 days whereas in the high-dose treatment group (0.1
mg/100 g BW) the progesterone rise was delayed between 21 and 41 days. In the
low-dose group the steepness of the slope from day 20 onwards was almost
identical to that of the control group. This was reflected in the bioCG levels
measured.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the GnRH-antagonist studies, complete ovarian
down-regulation in female marmosets can be achieved by applying a low-dose
regimen, and intrinsic gonadotropins would not interfere with an ovarian
superstimulation protocol.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.2006.00165.x 
PMID: 17214664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

