

2446. J Hered. 2007 Mar-Apr;98(2):165-8. Epub 2006 Dec 22.

Evolution and differentiation of MSHR gene in different species.

Li XL(1), Zheng GR, Zhou RY, Li LH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, College of Animal Science and Technology,
Agricultural University of Hebei, Baoding, China. lizianglongcn@yahoo.com

Coat color offers some prospects for evolutionary studies due to its large amount
of presumably adaptive coat color variation and conserved genetic mechanisms of
generating different coat colors in different species. Melanocyte-stimulating
hormone receptor (MSHR) gene is responsible for intraspecific and interspecific
color variation in mammals and birds. A total number of 206 MSHR gene sequences
belonging to 84 species, 58 genera, and 20 families were analyzed to investigate 
its evolution and differentiation in different species. Most of the species have 
954 bp and stop codon TGA. Species in Callithrix and Callimico have a stop codon 
mutation from TGA to TGG and elongate 81 bp with TAG as stop codon. Species in
Phasianidae, Fringillidae, and Lemuridae also use TAG as stop codon. The Sus
scrofa had an insertion of AACCAGACC encoding Asn-Gln-Thr from 85 to 93 bp. In
Bovidae, a brown strain of cow with 966 bp due to the 12-bp duplication of
GGCATTGCCCGG from 670 to 681 bp encoding for Gly-Ile-Ala-Arg was found. Teiidae
has the smallest number of total mutations (6), silent mutations (3),
nonsynonymous mutations (3), average number of nucleotide differences (1.519),
synonymous nucleotide diversity (pi(s) = 0.0030), and nonsynonymous nucleotide
diversity (pi(a) = 0.0029), and Hominidae, Lemuridae, Canidae, and Teiidae have
higher ratio of pi(a)/pi(s) (0.537-0.973). The reconstructed phylogenetic tree of
MSHR gene of families is basically consistent with the taxonomy of National
Center for Biotechnology Information.

DOI: 10.1093/jhered/esl059 
PMID: 17189597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

