

245. Nat Protoc. 2020 Nov;15(11):3615-3631. doi: 10.1038/s41596-020-0388-3. Epub 2020 
Oct 12.

Intracellular neuronal recording in awake nonhuman primates.

Gao L(1)(2), Wang X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
lxgao10@zju.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Neurology of the Second Affiliated Hospital, Interdisciplinary
Institute of Neuroscience and Technology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine,
Key Laboratory for Biomedical Engineering of Ministry of Education, Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, China. lxgao10@zju.edu.cn.
(3)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Intracellular neuronal recordings from the brain of awake nonhuman primates have 
remained difficult to obtain because of several formidable technical challenges, 
such as poor recording stability and difficulties in maintaining long-term
recording conditions. We have developed a technique to record neuronal activity
by using a coaxial guide tube and sharp electrode assembly, which allows
researchers to repeatedly and reliably perform intracellular recordings in the
cortex of awake marmosets. Recordings from individual neurons last from several
minutes to more than an hour. A key advantage of this approach is that it does
not require dura removal, permitting recordings over weeks and months in a single
animal. This protocol describes the step-by-step procedures for construction of a
custom-made marmoset chair, head-cap implantation, preparation of the sharp
electrode and guide tube, neuronal recording and data analysis. As the technique 
is practical and easy to adapt, we anticipate that it can also be applied to
other mammalian models, including larger-size nonhuman primates.

DOI: 10.1038/s41596-020-0388-3 
PMID: 33046899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

