

2453. J Virol. 2007 Mar;81(5):2401-17. Epub 2006 Dec 6.

Intracellular Tat of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 activates lytic cycle
replication of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus: role of JAK/STAT
signaling.

Zeng Y(1), Zhang X, Huang Z, Cheng L, Yao S, Qin D, Chen X, Tang Q, Lv Z, Zhang
L, Lu C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing
210029, People's Republic of China.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection significantly increases the
risk of Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) occurrence in individuals infected with Kaposi's
sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). KSHV infection appears to be necessary but
not sufficient for KS development without other cofactors. However, factors that 
facilitate KSHV to cause KS have not been well defined. Previously, we determined
that human herpesvirus 6 was one of the cofactors that activated lytic cycle
replication of KSHV. Here, we demonstrate that the Tat protein of HIV-1 is a
potentially important factor in the pathogenesis of KS, as determined by
production of lytic phase mRNA transcripts and viral proteins in BCBL-1 cells.
Mechanistic studies showed ectopic expression of Tat induced the production of
human interleukin-6 (huIL-6) and its receptor (huIL-6Ra) and activated STAT3
signaling. Neutralization of huIL-6 or huIL-6R or inhibition of STAT3 signaling
enhanced the replication. In addition, IL-4/STAT6 signaling also partially
contributed to Tat-induced KSHV replication. These findings suggest that Tat may 
participate in KS pathogenesis by inducing KSHV replication and increasing KSHV
viral load. These data also suggest that JAK/STAT signaling may be of therapeutic
value in AIDS-related KS patients.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02024-06 
PMCID: PMC1865948
PMID: 17151125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

