

2456. FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol. 2007 Feb;49(1):62-7. Epub 2006 Nov 21.

Detection of four lymphotropic herpesviruses in Hungarian patients with multiple 
myeloma and lymphoma.

Csire M(1), Mikala G, Peto M, Jánosi J, Juhász A, Tordai A, Jákó J, Domján G,
Dolgos J, Berencsi G, Vályi-Nagy I.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Virology, National Center for Epidemiology, Budapest, Hungary.
csirem@oek.antsz.hu

It has been suggested that human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8), also known as KSHV
(Kaposi's sarcoma-associated human herpesvirus), might possess a promoting effect
in the development and progression of monoclonal gammopathies. In this study, the
presence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), human cytomegalovirus (CMV), human
herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) and human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) were tested in patients
with multiple myeloma (MM) using both serologic and nucleic acid amplification
techniques. The transient reactivation or continuous presence of EBV, CMV, HHV-6 
and HHV-8 could be detected in, respectively, 36, eight, 13 and 29 of 69 MM
patients; nine, one, four and six of 16 monoclonal gammopathy of unknown
significance patients; and seven, four, zero and five of 10 Waldenström's
macroglobulinemia patients. The total number of MM patients was 95. HHV-8
PCR-positivity was significantly more frequent in the MM group than in the
control group of patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). However, serologic
testing did not reveal significant differences between the two patient groups.
The number of MM patients with concomitant herpesvirus infections as detected by 
PCR was as follows: 15 double, seven triple and two quadruple virus nucleic acid 
positive. In 13/95 MM patients, the simultaneous presence of acute EBV infection 
and HHV-8 PCR-positivity was detected compared with none of the control group
(P=0.009). These results indicate that in addition to HHV-8, the transitional
reactivation of EBV may also play a role in the pathogenesis of MM.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-695X.2006.00171.x 
PMID: 17132141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

