

2458. J Physiol. 2007 Feb 15;579(Pt 1):29-51. Epub 2006 Nov 23.

Response variability of marmoset parvocellular neurons.

Victor JD(1), Blessing EM, Forte JD, Buz√°s P, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, New York, NY 10021, USA.

This study concerns the properties of neurons carrying signals for colour vision 
in primates. We investigated the variability of responses of individual
parvocellular lateral geniculate neurons of dichromatic and trichromatic
marmosets to drifting sinusoidal luminance and chromatic gratings. Response
variability was quantified by the cycle-to-cycle variation in Fourier components 
of the response. Averaged across the population, the variability at low contrasts
was greater than predicted by a Poisson process, and at high contrasts the
responses were approximately 40% more variable than responses at low contrasts.
The contrast-dependent increase in variability was nevertheless below that
expected from the increase in firing rate. Variability falls below the Poisson
prediction at high contrast, and intrinsic variability of the spike train
decreases as contrast increases. Thus, while deeply modulated responses in
parvocellular cells have a larger absolute variability than weakly modulated
ones, they have a more favourable signal: noise ratio than predicted by a Poisson
process. Similar results were obtained from a small sample of magnocellular and
koniocellular ('blue-on') neurons. For parvocellular neurons with pronounced
colour opponency, chromatic responses were, on average, less variable (10-15%,
p<0.01) than luminance responses of equal magnitude. Conversely, non-opponent
parvocellular neurons showed the opposite tendency. This is consistent with a
supra-additive noise source prior to combination of cone signals. In summary,
though variability of parvocellular neurons is largely independent of the way in 
which they combine cone signals, the noise characteristics of retinal circuitry
may augment specialization of parvocellular neurons to signal luminance or
chromatic contrast.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2006.122283 
PMCID: PMC2075379
PMID: 17124265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

