

2459. Exp Neurol. 2007 Mar;204(1):162-70. Epub 2006 Nov 16.

Decreased expression of l-dopa-induced dyskinesia by switching to ropinirole in
MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Jackson MJ(1), Smith LA, Al-Barghouthy G, Rose S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Current concepts suggest that pulsatile stimulation of dopamine receptors
following L-dopa administration leads to priming for dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates, while continuous dopaminergic stimulation with long-acting dopamine
agonists does not. We investigated whether L-dopa-induced dyskinesia is reduced
by switching to a dopamine agonist. MPTP-treated marmosets received chronic
treatment with L-dopa or ropinirole in doses producing equivalent motor activity 
and reversal of motor deficits. Administration of L-dopa led to the rapid onset
of moderate to severe dyskinesia, whereas ropinirole produced only mild
dyskinesia. Animals initially treated with L-dopa were switched to an equivalent 
dose of ropinirole and those treated with ropinirole were switched to an
equivalent dose of L-dopa for 56 days. L-dopa-primed animals that were switched
to ropinirole showed a trend towards a reduction of dyskinesia intensity, whereas
animals initially treated with ropinirole and switched to L-dopa showed a trend
toward increased dyskinesia intensity. A subsequent, acute L-dopa challenge
reversed motor deficits and induced intense dyskinesia in both groups. This
suggests that L-dopa leads to the priming and expression of dyskinesia, but that 
expression is not maintained when switching to a long-acting dopamine agonist. In
contrast, dopamine agonists may prime for dyskinesia, but do not lead to its full
expression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2006.10.005 
PMID: 17113078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

