

2461. J Neurophysiol. 2007 Feb;97(2):1135-48. Epub 2006 Nov 15.

Spatial summation, end inhibition and side inhibition in the middle temporal
visual area (MT).

Lui LL(1), Bourne JA, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia.

We investigated the responses of single neurons in the middle temporal area (MT) 
of anesthetized marmoset monkeys to sine-wave gratings of various lengths and
widths. For the vast majority of MT cells maximal responses were obtained on
presentation of gratings of specific dimensions, which were typically
asymmetrical along the length and width axes. The strength of end inhibition was 
dependent on the width of the stimulus, with many cells showing clear end
inhibition only when wide gratings were used. Conversely, the strength of side
inhibition was dependent on stimulus length. Furthermore, for over one third of
MT cells length summation properties could not be defined without consideration
of stimulus width and vice versa. These neurons, which we refer to as
"length-width inseparable" (LWI) cells, were rare in layer 4. The majority of LWI
neurons was strongly inhibited by wide-field stimuli and responded preferentially
to gratings that were elongated, along either the length or width dimensions.
However, rather than forming a homogeneous and entirely distinct group, LWI cells
represented the upper end of a continuum of complexity in spatial summation
response properties, which characterized the population of MT cells. Only a
minority of MT neurons (22.3%) showed no evidence of inhibition by wide-field
stimuli, with this type of response being common among layer 5 cells. These
results demonstrate distinct patterns of spatial selectivity in MT, supporting
the notion that neurons in this area can perform various roles in terms of
grouping and segmentation of motion signals.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.01018.2006 
PMID: 17108088  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

