

2464. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2006 Nov;56(Pt 11):2671-2676. doi:
10.1099/ijs.0.64378-0.

Pseudomonas simiae sp. nov., isolated from clinical specimens from monkeys
(Callithrix geoffroyi).

Vela AI(1), Gutiérrez MC(2), Falsen E(3), Rollán E(4), Simarro I(1), García P(4),
Domínguez L(1), Ventosa A(2), Fernández-Garayzábal JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento Sanidad Animal, Facultad de Veterinaria, Universidad Complutense,
Avda Puerta de Hierro s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Microbiología y Parasitología, Facultad de Farmacia, Sevilla, 
Spain.
(3)Culture Collection, Department of Clinical Bacteriology, University of
Göteborg, Sweden.
(4)Departamento de Medicina y Cirugía Animal, Facultad de Veterinaria,
Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain.

An unusual Gram-negative, catalase- and oxidase-positive, rod-shaped bacterium
isolated from different clinical samples from two monkeys (Callithrix geoffroyi) 
was characterized by phenotypic and molecular genetic methods. The micro-organism
was tentatively identified as a Pseudomonas species on the basis of the results
of cellular morphological and biochemical tests. Fatty acid studies confirmed
this generic placement and comparative 16S rRNA gene sequencing studies
demonstrated that the unknown isolates were phylogenetically closely related to
each other (100% sequence similarity) and were part of the 'Pseudomonas
fluorescens intrageneric cluster'. The novel bacterium, however, was
distinguished from other phylogenetically related species of Pseudomonas by
DNA-DNA hybridization studies and biochemical tests. On the basis of both
phenotypic and phylogenetic findings, it is proposed that the novel Pseudomonas
isolates are classified as Pseudomonas simiae sp. nov. The type strain of P.
simiae is OLiT (=CCUG 50988T=CECT 7078T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijs.0.64378-0 
PMID: 17082409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

