

2467. FASEB J. 2006 Dec;20(14):2582-4. Epub 2006 Oct 26.

An unusual mode of concerted evolution of the EGF-TM7 receptor chimera EMR2.

Kwakkenbos MJ(1), Matmati M, Madsen O, Pouwels W, Wang Y, Bontrop RE, Heidt PJ,
Hoek RM, Hamann J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Immunology, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, P.O. Box 22700, 1100 DE Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The epidermal growth factor (EGF)-TM7 receptors CD97, EMR1, EMR2, EMR3, and EMR4 
form a group of adhesion class heptahelical molecules predominantly expressed by 
cells of the immune system. These receptors bind cellular ligands through
EGF-like domains, localized N-terminal to a large extracellular region.
Remarkably, EMR2 possesses a chimeric structure with a seven-span transmembrane
(TM7) region most related to EMR3 and an EGF domain region nearly identical to
CD97. By comparing EGF-TM7 receptors in primates and dogs, we identified an
intriguing pattern of concerted evolution, apparently mediated by gene
conversion, among EMR2 and the oppositely orientated and physically adjacent
genes CD97 and EMR3. This concerted evolution has continuously maintained the
chimeric structure of EMR2 since early mammal radiation. Most highly conserved
between EMR2 and CD97 is the fourth EGF domain, which mediates binding to
chondroitin sulfate, a ligand specificity shared by both receptors. Another
ligand, CD55, is bound effectively only by CD97. We show that different molecular
mechanisms (mutations vs. alternative splicing) prevent CD55 binding by EMR2 in
hominoids. Our findings illustrate how various and partially opposing
evolutionary events have shaped the structure and ligand specificity of a modern 
mammalian gene family.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.06-6500fje 
PMID: 17068111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

