

2468. J Neurosci. 2006 Oct 25;26(43):11148-61.

Specificity of M and L cone inputs to receptive fields in the parvocellular
pathway: random wiring with functional bias.

Buz√°s P(1), Blessing EM, Szmajda BA, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

Many of the parvocellular pathway (PC) cells in primates show red-green spectral 
selectivity (cone opponency), but PC ganglion cells in the retina show no
anatomical signs of cone selectivity. Here we asked whether responses of PC cells
are compatible with "random wiring" of cone inputs. We measured
long-wavelength-sensitive (L) and medium-wavelength-sensitive (M) cone inputs to 
PC receptive fields in the dorsal lateral geniculate of marmosets, using discrete
stimuli (apertures and annuli) to achieve functional segregation of center and
surround. Receptive fields between the fovea and 30 degrees eccentricity were
measured. We show that, in opponent PC cells, the center is dominated by one (L
or M) cone type, with normally <20% contribution from the other cone type (high
"cone purity"), whereas non-opponent cells have mixed L and M cone inputs to the 
receptive field center. Furthermore, opponent response strength depends on the
overall segregation of L and M cone inputs to center and surround rather than
exclusive input from one cone type to either region. These data are consistent
with random wiring. The majority of PC cells in both foveal (<8 degrees) and
peripheral retina nevertheless show opponent responses. This arises because cone 
purity in the receptive field surround is at least as high as in the center, and 
the surround in nearly all opponent PC cells is dominated by the opposite cone
type to that which dominates the center. These functional biases increase the
proportion of opponent PC cells, but their anatomical basis is unclear.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3237-06.2006 
PMCID: PMC6674646
PMID: 17065455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

