

2470. Int Immunopharmacol. 2006 Dec 5;6(12):1755-64. Epub 2006 Sep 1.

Development of methods to measure humoral immune responses against selected
antigens in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and the effect of
pyridostigmine bromide administration.

Griffiths GD(1), Hornby RJ, Jagger CP, Brown AP, Stoten A, Pearce PC, Scott L,
Pritchard DI.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences, Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, Porton Down,
Salisbury, UK. gdgriffiths@dstl.gov.uk

This methodological study was carried out in preparation for a major long term
study, also reported in this volume, which was designed to investigate whether
the combination of vaccines and pyridostigmine bromide (PB) could have been
responsible for adverse signs and symptoms reported by a number of veterans of
the 1990/1991 Gulf conflict. In this context, the marmoset has been used to model
aspects of the human immune system. The purposes of this methodological study
were to select appropriate immunochemical reagents to measure humoral responses
induced in marmosets in response to selected health and hygiene and biological
warfare vaccines and to initially assess the effects of PB on the responses
recorded. Vaccines were administered at 1/5th of a human dose, and also
investigated in combination with the nerve agent pretreatment compound PB. PB
dosing was selected to induce an inhibition of erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase
by 30%. In order to assess the functionality of the immune system, antibody
responses to a neo-antigen (keyhole limpet haemocyanin--KLH), administered some 2
months following the completion of the vaccination schedule, were measured. The
present study identified appropriate isotyping reporter reagents which
cross-reacted with equivalent marmoset immunoglobulins. Robust antibody responses
were identified against anthrax protective antigen (PA), whole cell pertussis
vaccine and KLH, while weaker responses were measured against cholera and typhoid
vaccines. The killed whole cell plague vaccine induced a response which was at
the limit of detection of the assay. Coadministered PB had no discernable effect 
on immunological responses in this study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2006.08.005 
PMID: 17052666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

