

2472. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Oct;24(8):2389-405. Epub 2006 Oct 17.

A distinct anatomical network of cortical areas for analysis of motion in far
peripheral vision.

Palmer SM(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

We defined cortical areas involved in the analysis of motion in the far
peripheral visual field, a poorly understood aspect of visual processing in
primates. This was accomplished by small tracer injections within and around the 
representations of the monocular field of vision ('temporal crescents') in the
middle temporal area (MT) of marmoset monkeys. Quantitative analyses demonstrate 
that the representation of the far periphery receives specific connections from
the retrosplenial cortex (areas 23v and prostriata), as well as comparatively
stronger inputs from the primary visual area (V1) and from areas surrounding MT
(in particular, the medial superior temporal area, MST). In contrast, the far
peripheral representation receives little or no input from most other
extrastriate areas, including the second visual area (V2), the densely myelinated
areas of the dorsomedial cortex, and ventral stream areas; these areas are shown 
to have robust projections to other parts of MT. Our results demonstrate that the
responses of cells in different parts of a same visual area can be determined by 
different combinations of synaptic inputs, in terms of areas of origin. They also
suggest that the interconnections responsible for motion processing in the far
periphery of the visual field convey information that is crucial for
rapid-response aspects of visual function such as orienting, postural and
defensive reactions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.05113.x 
PMID: 17042793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

