

2475. Vis Neurosci. 2006 Sep-Oct;23(5):815-24.

Processing of first-order motion in marmoset visual cortex is influenced by
second-order motion.

Barraclough N(1), Tinsley C, Webb B, Vincent C, Derrington A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Hull, East Yorkshire, United Kingdom. 
n.barraclough@hull.ac.uk

We measured the responses of single neurons in marmoset visual cortex (V1, V2,
and the third visual complex) to moving first-order stimuli and to combined
first- and second-order stimuli in order to determine whether first-order motion 
processing was influenced by second-order motion. Beat stimuli were made by
summing two gratings of similar spatial frequency, one of which was static and
the other was moving. The beat is the product of a moving sinusoidal carrier
(first-order motion) and a moving low-frequency contrast envelope (second-order
motion). We compared responses to moving first-order gratings alone with
responses to beat patterns with first-order and second-order motion in the same
direction as each other, or in opposite directions to each other in order to
distinguish first-order and second-order direction-selective responses. In the
majority (72%, 67/93) of cells (V1 73%, 45/62; V2 70%, 16/23; third visual
complex 75%, 6/8), responses to first-order motion were significantly influenced 
by the addition of a second-order signal. The second-order envelope was more
influential when moving in the opposite direction to the first-order stimulus,
reducing first-order direction sensitivity in V1, V2, and the third visual
complex. We interpret these results as showing that first-order motion processing
through early visual cortex is not separate from second-order motion processing; 
suggesting that both motion signals are processed by the same system.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523806230141 
PMID: 17020636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

