

2479. Biochem Pharmacol. 2006 Dec 15;72(12):1738-48. Epub 2006 Sep 29.

Cloning of a cDNA encoding a novel marmoset CYP2C enzyme, expression in yeast
cells and characterization of its enzymatic functions.

Narimatsu S(1), Torigoe F, Tsuneto Y, Saito K, Hanioka N, Masuda K, Katsu T,
Yamamoto S, Yamano S, Baba T, Miyata A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Health Chemistry, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Okayama
700-8530, Japan. shizuo@pharm.okayama-u.ac.jp

We cloned a cDNA encoding a novel CYP2C enzyme, called P450 M-2C, from a marmoset
liver. The deduced amino acid sequence showed high identities to those of human
CYP2C8 (87%), CYP2C9 (78%) and CYP2C19 (77%). The P450 M-2C enzyme expressed in
yeast cells catalyzed p-methylhydroxylation of only tolbutamide among four
substrates tested, paclitaxel as a CYP2C8 substrate, diclofenac and tolbutamide
as CYP2C9 substrates and S-mephenytoin as a CYP2C19 substrate.
p-Methylhydroxylation of tolbutamide by marmoset liver microsomes showed
monophasic kinetics, and the apparent K(m) value (1.2 mM) for the substrate was
similar to that of the recombinant P450 M-2C (1.8 mM). Although all of the
recombinant human CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 expressed in yeast cells catalyzed
tolbutamide p-methylhydroxylation, the kinetic profile of CYP2C8 was most similar
to that of P450 M-2C. Tolbutamide oxidation by the marmoset liver microsomes and 
the recombinant P450 M-2C was inhibited most effectively by quercetin, a CYP2C8
inhibitor, followed by omeprazole, a CYP2C19 inhibitor, whereas sulfaphenazole, a
CYP2C9 inhibitor, was less potent under the conditions used. These results
indicate that P450 M-2C is the major tolbutamide p-methylhydroxylase in the
marmoset liver.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2006.08.025 
PMID: 17010942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

