

2482. J Acoust Soc Am. 2006 Sep;120(3):1655-70.

Acoustic analysis of vocal development in a New World primate, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Pistorio AL(1), Vintch B, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

In contrast to humans and songbirds, there is limited evidence of vocal learning 
in nonhuman primates. While previous studies suggested that primate vocalizations
exhibit developmental changes, detailed analyses of the extent and time course of
such changes across a species' vocal repertoire remain limited. In a highly vocal
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), we studied developmental
changes in the acoustic structure of species-specific communication sounds
produced in a social setting. We performed detailed acoustic analyses of the
spectral and temporal characteristics of marmoset vocalizations during
development, comparing differences between genders and twin pairs, as well as
with vocalizations from adult marmosets residing in the same colony. Our analyses
revealed significant changes in spectral and temporal features as well as
variability of particular call types over time. Infant and juvenile vocalizations
changed progressively toward the vocalizations produced by adult marmosets. Call 
types observed early in development that were unique to infants disappeared
gradually with age, while vocal exchanges with conspecifics emerged. Our
observations clearly indicate that marmoset vocalizations undergo both
qualitative and quantitative postnatal changes, establishing the basis for
further studies to delineate contributions from maturation of the vocal apparatus
and behavioral experience.

DOI: 10.1121/1.2225899 
PMID: 17004487  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

