

2483. ChemMedChem. 2006 Nov;1(11):1237-48.

Protein-structure-based prediction of animal model suitability for
pharmacodynamic studies of subtype-selective estrogens.

Toschi L(1), Hilbig J, Wintermantel T, Engelhaupt A, Walter A, Fritzemeier KH,
Hillisch A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genomics and Bioinformatics, Schering AG, MÃ¼llerstrasse 170-178,
13342 Berlin, Germany. luisella.toschi@schering.de

Subtype-selective estrogens are of increasing importance as tools used to unravel
physiological roles of the estrogen receptors, ERalpha and ERbeta, in various
species. Although human ERalpha and ERbeta differ by only two amino acids within 
the binding pockets, we and others recently succeeded in generating
subtype-selective agonists. We have proposed that the selectivity of the
steroidal compounds 16alpha-lactone-estradiol (16alpha-LE(2), hERalpha selective)
and 8beta-vinyl-estradiol (8beta-VE(2), hERbeta selective) is based on the
interaction of certain substituents of these compounds with essentially one amino
acid in the respective ER binding pockets. For in vitro and ex vivo
pharmacological experiments with these compounds we intended to use bovine
tissues available from slaughterhouses in larger quantities. Using homology
modeling techniques we determined that the amino acid conferring high
hERbeta-selectivity to 8beta-VE(2) is not exchanged between human and bovine
ERalpha and bovine ERbeta. Thus, we predicted our steroidal hERbeta-selective
compound to exhibit only weak agonistic activity at bERbeta and that bovine
tissue is therefore not suited for investigation of ERbeta functions. The
situation is presumably identical for pig, sheep, and the common marmoset,
whereas rats, mice, and rhesus macaques are appropriate animal models to study
pharmacological effects of 8beta-VE(2) in vivo. This prediction was confirmed in 
transactivation studies assessing estradiol (E(2)) and the two subtype-selective 
ligands on bovine ERbeta and on a series of hERalpha and hERbeta with mutations
in their respective ligand-binding pockets. We have shown that the detailed
understanding of the interactions of a compound with its target protein enables
the identification of relevant species for pharmacological studies.

DOI: 10.1002/cmdc.200600183 
PMID: 17001712  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

