

2484. Mov Disord. 2006 Dec;21(12):2090-5.

Antiparkinsonian effects of the novel D3/D2 dopamine receptor agonist, S32504, in
MPTP-lesioned marmosets: Mediation by D2, not D3, dopamine receptors.

Hill MP(1), Ravenscroft P, McGuire SG, Brotchie JM, Crossman AR, Rochat C, Millan
MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Motac Neuroscience, Ltd., Manchester, United Kingdom. m.hill@motac.com

L-dopa remains the most common treatment for Parkinson's disease. However, there 
is considerable interest in D3/D2 receptor agonists such as the novel agent
S32504, since they exert antiparkinsonian properties in the absence of
dyskinesia. An important question concerns the roles of D2 vs. D3 receptors, an
issue we addressed with the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease. In L-dopa-primed
animals, S32504 (0.16-2.5 mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently enhanced locomotor
activity. This action was abolished by the D2 antagonist, L741,626 (2.5 mg/kg),
but potentiated by the D3 antagonist, S33084 (0.63 mg/kg). Both antagonists were 
inactive alone. In drug-naive animals, a maximally effective dose of S32504 (2.5 
mg/kg p.o.) displayed pronounced antiparkinsonian properties from the third day
of administration, and its actions were expressed rapidly and durably. Thus, on
day 33, antiparkinsonian properties of S32504 were apparent within 5 minutes and 
present for > 4 hours. Moreover, they were associated with neither wearing off
nor significant dyskinesia. In conclusion, the novel D3/D2 agonist S32504 may
offer advantages over L-dopa in the treatment of newly diagnosed parkinsonian
patients. Its actions are expressed primarily by activation of D2, not D3,
receptors.

Copyright 2006 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21106 
PMID: 16991143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

