

2485. Neurosci Lett. 2006 Nov 13;408(2):89-93. Epub 2006 Sep 18.

Time-dependent increase in Nogo-A expression after focal cerebral ischemia in
marmoset monkeys.

Eslamboli A(1), Grundy RI, Irving EA.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology and GI CEDD, GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park North,
Third Avenue, Harlow, Essex CM19 5AW, United Kingdom.

Nogo-A is a myelin-associated protein that has been shown to inhibit axonal
sprouting after lesions to the CNS. Several studies have demonstrated that
blocking the activity or expression of this inhibitor can induce structural and
functional recovery after CNS lesions. However, there are limited and
contradictory data on the expression of Nogo-A after CNS lesions. In the present 
study, marmoset monkeys received permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral
artery (MCAo). Two, 3, or 4 months after the onset of injury brain sections were 
stained for Nogo-A protein. Two sham operated marmosets were included as a
control. Nogo-A protein expression was quantified in white matter and grey matter
in the areas adjacent to the lesion (or the equivalent areas in the intact side).
At 2 months after injury, but not at 3 or 4 months, there was a significant
increase in the number of oligodendrocytes that were Nogo-A immunopositive. This 
increase was observed in white matter structures that were adjacent to the lesion
(e.g. corona radiate (CR)); but not in: white matter structures distal to the
lesion (e.g. corpus callosum (CC)); cortical regions adjacent to the lesion;
contralateral regions or in sham operated marmosets. These data suggest that
Nogo-A levels are significantly increased within oligodendrocytes in areas
adjacent to the lesion up to 2 months following cerebral ischaemia. Future
studies will determine whether this offers the opportunity to promote plasticity 
by targeting Nogo-A weeks or months following stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2006.08.056 
PMID: 16982144  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

