

2491. Mov Disord. 2006 Nov;21(11):1879-91.

Pharmacological characterization of psychosis-like behavior in the MPTP-lesioned 
nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Visanji NP(1), Gomez-Ramirez J, Johnston TH, Pires D, Voon V, Brotchie JM, Fox
SH.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada.

Investigation of the pathophysiology of psychosis in Parkinson's disease (PD), as
well as the assessment of potential novel therapeutics, has been limited by the
lack of a well-validated animal model. MPTP-lesioned primates exhibit abnormal
behaviors that are distinct from dyskinesia and parkinsonism and may represent
behavioral correlates of neural processes related to psychosis in PD. Here we
assess four types of behavior--agitation, hallucinatory-like responses to
nonapparent stimuli, obsessive grooming, and stereotypies that are termed
"psychosis-like"--and define their pharmacology using a psychosis-like behavior
rating scale. By assessing the actions of drugs known to enhance or attenuate
psychosis in PD patients, we find that the pharmacology of these behaviors
recapitulates, in several respects, the pharmacology of psychosis in PD. Thus,
levodopa and apomorphine elicited psychosis-like behaviors. Amantadine
significantly decreased levodopa-induced dyskinesia but exacerbated
psychosis-like behaviors. Haloperidol reduced psychosis-like behaviors but at the
expense of increased parkinsonian disability while the atypical neuroleptics
clozapine and quetiapine reduced psychosis-like behaviors without significant
effect on parkinsonian disability. The response of different components of the
psychotomimetic behavior suggested the involvement of both dopaminergic and
nondopaminergic mechanisms in their expression.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21073 
PMID: 16960862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

