

2496. Arch Toxicol. 2007 Mar;81(3):219-26. Epub 2006 Aug 26.

Induction of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha)-related
enzymes by di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) treatment in mice and rats, but not 
marmosets.

Ito Y(1), Yamanoshita O, Kurata Y, Kamijima M, Aoyama T, Nakajima T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, Nagoya University
Graduate School of Medicine, 65 Tsurumai-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan.

To clarify species differences in the induction of peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha)-related enzymes by
di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) exposure, we investigated the inductions of
PPARalpha and its target genes (mitochondrial medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase
(MCAD) and peroxisomal keto-acyl-CoA thiolase (PT) in liver from mice (CD-1),
rats (Sprague-Dawley), and marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) exposed to DEHP. Male
mice and rats were treated with 0, 1.25 and 2.5 mmol/kg DEHP for 2 weeks, and
marmosets with 0, 0.25, 1.25 and 6.25 mmol/kg DEHP for 15 months by gavage.
Hepatic mono(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (MEHP) levels were significantly higher in
mice and rats than in marmosets. The constitutive expression of hepatic PPARalpha
was 5-7 times greater in rats and mice than in marmosets, but DEHP treatment did 
not induce PPARalpha-mRNA in all animals. The treatment-induced PT expression
detected either by anti-PT antibody or PT-mRNA levels in the liver only from mice
and rats, and the induction of the mRNA was greater in the latter than in the
former. Thus, DEHP used in this experiment influenced the peroxisomal enzymes in 
mice and rats, but did not affect the mitochondrial enzymes in any animals or the
peroxisomal enzymes in marmosets. These results suggest that there are species
differences in the induction of PPARalpha-related enzymes, especially in
peroxisomal enzymes by DEHP treatment, and their underlying mechanism may in part
reside in the different constitutive levels of PPARalpha and different forming
levels of MEHP.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-006-0141-x 
PMID: 16937134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

