

2501. Eur J Pharmacol. 2006 Sep 28;546(1-3):82-7. Epub 2006 Jul 25.

The novel adenosine A2a receptor antagonist ST1535 potentiates the effects of a
threshold dose of L-DOPA in MPTP treated common marmosets.

Rose S(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Stockwell K, Johnson L, Carminati P, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, School of Health and Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London SE1 1UL UK.

Adenosine A(2a) receptor antagonists may represent a novel non-dopaminergic
approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, there is little
information available on their ability to reverse motor deficits in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates. We have studied the effects of the novel A(2a) receptor antagonist
2-butyl-9-methyl-8-(2H-1,2,3-triazol 2-yl)-9 H-purin-6-ylamine (ST1535) alone and
in combination with l-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in MPTP-treated common
marmosets. ST1535 (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, p.o.) when administered alone to
MPTP-treated common marmosets produced a dose related increase in locomotor motor
activity and tended to reverse motor disability. Treatment with a threshold dose 
of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) produced an increase in locomotor activity and again 
tended to reverse motor disability. When L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) was
administered in combination with ST1535 (20 mg/kg, p.o.), there was an
enhancement in the intensity and duration of the effect of L-DOPA (2.5 mg/kg,
p.o.) in reversing motor deficits as shown by both a further increase in
locomotor activity and reversal of motor disability. The combination of L-DOPA
(2.5 mg/kg, p.o.) plus ST1535 (20 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly increased "on time" 
in these animals. These data substantiate the evidence that adenosine A(2a)
receptor antagonists are able to reverse motor deficits in a highly predictive
model of clinical efficacy in Parkinson's disease. The data suggests that ST1535 
will be an effective anti-parkinsonian agent in combination with L-DOPA and allow
a reduction in l-DOPA usage in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2006.07.017 
PMID: 16925991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

