

2510. Reproduction. 2006 Aug;132(2):355-63.

Changes in endocrine profile and reproductive organs during puberty in the male
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Chandolia RK(1), Luetjens CM, Wistuba J, Yeung CH, Nieschlag E, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Reproductive Medicine of the University, Domagkstr 11, D-48129
Muenster, Germany.

Data on pubertal maturation in male marmoset, a model for human reproduction, are
scant and conflicting. We collected data on novel parameters to characterize
puberty. Twenty-five marmoset monkeys were assigned to five age groups by weeks
(wk): 21 (pre-pubertal), 43 (onset of puberty), 52 (fully pubertal), 70 (mature),
and 116 (fully adult). Serum and intratesticular testosterone and pituitary
bioactive chorionic gonadotropin (bioCG) were measured. Testicular development
was assessed by ultrasonography, histology, and flow cytometry. Three consecutive
blood samples revealed extreme fluctuations in testosterone concentrations,
suggesting an erratic secretion. Age-related changes in serum testosterone and
pituitary bioCG concentrations were observed. Intratesticular androgens (ITAs)
showed high fluctuations within groups at all ages and were high in some animals 
by 21 wk. Unexpectedly, no correlation between pituitary bioCG and serum
testosterone or ITAs was found, but these parameters significantly correlated
with testicular weight and volume. These observations were consistent a
dependence on the testis growth on bioCG. Unfortunately, the low serum levels of 
bioCG were not measurable in this study. At 43 wk, the animals reached puberty.
At 52 wk of age, animals attained maximum body and epididymal weights and
qualitatively normal spermatogenesis, but testes continued growing, reaching a
maximum of all parameters at 70 wk of age, without further major changes at the
age of 116 wk. It is concluded that (1) gonadal activation is evident at wk 21,
(2) the male marmoset reaches the pubertal threshold around 43 wk of age, attains
qualitative parameters at 52 wk, matures further to sexual maturity at 70 wk, and
(3) serum testosterone and ITAs are highly variable without any identifiable
correlation with pituitary bioCG.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.1.01186 
PMID: 16885543  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

