

2511. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jul;24(1):314-28.

Cholinergic modulation of response properties and orientation tuning of neurons
in primary visual cortex of anaesthetized Marmoset monkeys.

Zinke W(1), Roberts MJ, Guo K, McDonald JS, Robertson R, Thiele A.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology, Brain and Behaviour, Henry Wellcome Building, University of
Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 HH, UK.

Cortical processing is strongly influenced by the actions of neuromodulators such
as acetylcholine (ACh). Early studies in anaesthetized cats argued that
acetylcholine can cause a sharpening of orientation tuning functions and an
improvement of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of neuronal responses in primary
visual cortex (V1). Recent in vitro studies have demonstrated that acetylcholine 
reduces the efficacy of feedback and intracortical connections via the activation
of muscarinic receptors, and increases the efficacy of feed-forward connections
via the activation of nicotinic receptors. If orientation tuning is mediated or
enhanced by intracortical connections, high levels of acetylcholine should
diminish orientation tuning. Here we investigate the effects of acetylcholine on 
orientation tuning and neuronal responsiveness in anaesthetized marmoset monkeys.
We found that acetylcholine caused a broadening of the orientation tuning in the 
majority of cells, while tuning functions became sharper in only a minority of
cells. Moreover, acetylcholine generally facilitated neuronal responses, but
neither improved signal-to-noise ratio, nor reduced trial-to-trial firing rate
variance systematically. Acetylcholine did however, reduce variability of spike
occurrences within spike trains. We discuss these findings in the context of
dynamic control of feed-forward and lateral/feedback connectivity by
acetylcholine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04882.x 
PMCID: PMC1888486
PMID: 16882027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

