

2515. J Immunol Methods. 2006 Jul 31;314(1-2):153-63. Epub 2006 Jul 24.

MHC Class II DRB genotyping is highly predictive of in-vitro alloreactivity in
the common marmoset.

Prasad S(1), Humphreys I, Kireta S, Gilchrist RB, Bardy P, Russ GR, Coates PT.

Author information: 
(1)Transplantation Immunology Laboratory and Department of Medicine, University
of Adelaide, The Queen Elizabeth Hospital Campus, 28 Woodville Road, Woodville,
SA 5011, Australia.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is emerging as a promising alternative
pre-clinical model for transplantation and immunological research. It is
therefore important to establish a rapid and reliable method of confirming
alloreactivity between donor-recipient pairs. In this study of a large marmoset
colony (n=49), we firstly characterised MHC Class II genes (Caja-DRB*W1201,
Caja-DRB1*03, Caja-DRB*W16) using, for the first time in this species,
sequence-based allelic typing techniques. Exon 2 was amplified using M13-tailed
PCR primers specific for known marmoset alleles, and sequenced using universal
M13 sequencing primers and dye terminator cycle sequencing. Twenty-six genotypes 
involving monomorphic Caja-DRB*W1201, 8 Caja-DRB*W16 and 5 Caja-DRB1*03 alleles
were observed. Two new DRB*W16 alleles were identified. Subsequently we
investigated whether matching at MHC-DRB loci alone could accurately predict
in-vitro alloreactivity as assessed by mixed lymphocyte reactions. Peripheral
blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) isolated from fully and partially DRB-matched and 
fully mismatched animal pairs were mixed and co-cultured for T-cell
proliferation. PBMC co-cultured from fully or partially mismatched pairs
exhibited significant T cell proliferation above single cell controls (p<0.01).
Mixed PBMC from fully DRB-matched pairs exhibited no proliferation over controls 
(p=0.3). Thus using Caja-DRB genotyping, suitably alloreactive donor-recipient
pairs can be rapidly and accurately identified for use in further studies of
cellular and solid organ transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2006.06.009 
PMID: 16860822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

