

2519. Toxicol Pathol. 2006;34(4):357-63.

Spontaneous lesions of the cardiovascular system in purpose-bred laboratory
nonhuman primates.

Chamanza R(1), Parry NM, Rogerson P, Nicol JR, Bradley AE.

Author information: 
(1)Charles River Laboratories, Preclinical Services Edinburgh, Tranent, EH33 2NE,
Scotland, United Kingdom.

This retrospective study was performed to determine the range, occurrence and
incidence of spontaneously arising histopathological findings of the
cardiovascular system in purpose-bred laboratory nonhuman primates. Data were
collected from 84 controlled toxicological studies with equal numbers of male and
female animals and full tissue lists. Attempts were also made to standardize
pathological terms used by various original pathologists. Tissue sections from
2464 animals, which included 2050 cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), 284
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and 130 rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta)
were examined. The most common cardiac finding was focal myocardial inflammation,
subcategorized as either "inflammatory cell infiltration" (339) or "focal
myocarditis" (131). Other cardiac findings included mineralization (29),
endocarditis (16), pericarditis (10), squamous cysts (6) and ectopic thyroid
tissue (5). Perivasculitis/vasculitis in the kidney, lung, meninges, sciatic
nerve, and other tissues (206) was the most common vascular lesion. Focal
myocarditis was more common in male (60%) than female (40%) animals. Cardiac
mineralization and extramedullary hematopoiesis were more common in marmosets
than other species while ectopic thyroid tissue was present in marmosets and
cynomolgus monkeys. To our knowledge, this is the first study to demonstrate the 
range and incidence of spontaneous cardiovascular lesions in laboratory nonhuman 
primates.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230600809737 
PMID: 16844663  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

