

2523. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Jun;23(11):3119-23.

Selective prefrontal serotonin depletion impairs acquisition of a detour-reaching
task.

Walker SC(1), Mikheenko YP, Argyle LD, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK. 
scw34@cam.ac.uk

We have recently shown that serotonin in the primate orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)
contributes to the flexible control of behaviour. 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced
5-HT depletions of OFC impair performance on a serial reversal discrimination
task [Clarke et al. (2004)Science, 304, 878-880]. The deficit is characterized by
perseverative responding to the previously rewarded stimulus, a deficit similar
to that seen following lesions of the intrinsic neurones of the OFC [Dias et al. 
(1996)Nature, 380, 69-72]. The effect is neurochemically selective as
dopaminergic lesions of the OFC, induced by 6-hydroxydopamine, have no effect
[Clarke et al. (2006)Cerebral Cortex]. In order to test for the generality of the
effect of serotonin on orbitofrontal processing and, in particular, its effects
on flexible behaviour, the present study investigated the effects of serotonin
depletions of OFC on performance of another task dependent upon an intact OFC,
the detour-reaching task [Wallis et al. (2001)European Journal of Neuroscience,
13, 1797-1808]. Successful performance of this task requires inhibition of the
animal's prepotent response tendency to reach directly along its line of sight to
the reward. Compared with sham-operated controls, we found that lesioned monkeys 
made significantly more barrier reaches directly along their line of sight to the
visible reward during task acquisition. This finding provides further support for
the role of prefrontal serotonin in inhibitory control processes specifically in 
tasks sensitive to OFC dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04826.x 
PMCID: PMC1867317
PMID: 16820002  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

