

2529. Microbes Infect. 2006 Jul;8(8):2130-7. Epub 2006 Jun 2.

Immunogenicity of a recombinant protein containing the Plasmodium vivax vaccine
candidate MSP1(19) and two human CD4+ T-cell epitopes administered to non-human
primates (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Rosa DS(1), Iwai LK, Tzelepis F, Bargieri DY, Medeiros MA, Soares IS, Sidney J,
Sette A, Kalil J, Mello LE, Cunha-Neto E, Rodrigues MM.

Author information: 
(1)CINTERGEN, Departamento de Microbiologia, Imunologia e Parasitologia,
Universidade Federal de São Paulo-Escola Paulista de Medicina, Rua Botucatu 862, 
6th floor, São Paulo, SP 04023-062, Brazil.

One of the most promising vaccine candidates against the erythrocytic forms of
malaria is the 19 kDa C-terminal region of the merozoite surface protein 1
(MSP1(19)). As part of our studies aimed at the development of a Plasmodium vivax
malaria vaccine, we characterized the immunogenic properties of a new bacterial
recombinant protein containing the P. vivax MSP1(19) and two helper T-cell
epitopes, the synthetic universal pan allelic DR epitope (PADRE) and a new
internal MSP1 P. vivax epitope (DYDVVYLKPLAGMYK). We found that the recognition
of His6MSP1(19)-DYDVVYLKPLAGMYK-PADRE was as good as the recognition of
His6MSP1(19) indicating that the presence of the T-cell epitopes PADRE and
DYDVVYLKPLAGMYK did not modify the MSP1(19) epitopes recognized by human IgG. The
recombinant protein His6MSP1(19)-DYDVVYLKPLAGMYK-PADRE proved to be highly
immunogenic in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) when administered in
incomplete Freund's adjuvant. However, when administered in other adjuvant
formulations such as Quil A, CpG ODN 2006 or MPL/TDM, antibody titers to MSP1(19)
were significantly lower. Among these three adjuvants, Quil A proved to be the
most efficient one generating antibody titers significantly higher than the
others. These results indicated that under the circumstances evaluated, adjuvants
were key for the immunogenicity of the recombinant protein
His6MSP1(19)-DYDVVYLKPLAGMYK-PADRE.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micinf.2006.03.012 
PMID: 16797207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

