

2531. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2006 May-Jun;29(3):112-25.

Switching from levodopa to the long-acting dopamine D2/D3 agonist piribedil
reduces the expression of dyskinesia while maintaining effective motor activity
in MPTP-treated primates.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Johnston L, Kuoppamaki M, Rose S, Al-Barghouthy G, Del
Signore S, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, School of Biomedical and Health
Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Comment in
    Clin Neuropharmacol. 2007 Jan-Feb;30(1):60-2.

BACKGROUND: The control of motor complications following dopaminergic medication 
in late-stage Parkinson disease remains problematic.
OBJECTIVE: We now investigate the potential of oral administration of the
long-acting dopamine D2/D3 agonist piribedil to decrease the expression of
dyskinesia induced by prior exposure to levodopa in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP)-treated
primates.
METHODS: MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with equieffective doses of
levodopa (10.0-12.5 mg/kg PO, twice daily) or piribedil (3.0-4.0 mg/kg PO, once
daily) for 30 days and then switched to the alternative treatment for a further
35 days.
RESULTS: Levodopa administration markedly improved motor function, but dyskinesia
rapidly appeared and intensified as treatment progressed. Administration of
piribedil produced a similar reversal of MPTP-induced motor deficits but with
comparatively mild dyskinesia. On switching from levodopa to piribedil, the
intensity of dyskinesia decreased without altering the improvement in motor
deficits. However, on switching from piribedil to levodopa, the rapid increase in
dyskinesia despite the improvement in motor function being maintained suggests
that piribedil also primes for but does not markedly express dyskinesia.
CONCLUSION: The study confirms the low dyskinesia expression resulting from
piribedil treatment compared with an equieffective dose of levodopa. Importantly,
the results show that switching from levodopa to piribedil rapidly results in a
sustained decrease in dyskinesia intensity.

DOI: 10.1097/01.WNF.0000220818.71231.DF 
PMID: 16772809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

