

2538. J Biol Chem. 2006 Jul 21;281(29):19861-71. Epub 2006 May 23.

Evolution of the primate cathelicidin. Correlation between structural variations 
and antimicrobial activity.

Zelezetsky I(1), Pontillo A, Puzzi L, Antcheva N, Segat L, Pacor S, Crovella S,
Tossi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Trieste, Trieste, I-34127, Italy.

Cathelicidin genes homologous to the human CAMP gene, coding for the host defense
peptide LL-37, have been sequenced and analyzed in 20 primate species, including 
Great Apes, hylobatidae, cercopithecidae, callithricidae, and cebidae. The region
corresponding to the putative mature antimicrobial peptide is subject to a strong
selective pressure for variation, with evidence for positive selection throughout
the phylogenetic tree relating the peptides, which favors alterations in the
charge while little affecting overall hydrophobicity or amphipathicity. Selected 
peptides were chemically synthesized and characterized, and two distinct types of
behavior were observed. Macaque and leaf-eating monkey RL-37 peptides, like other
helical antimicrobial peptides found in insect, frog, and mammalian species, were
unstructured in bulk solution and had a potent, salt and medium independent
antimicrobial activity in vitro, which may be the principal function also in
vivo. Human LL-37 and the orangutan, hylobates, and callithrix homologues instead
showed a salt-dependent structuring and likely aggregation in bulk solution that 
affected antimicrobial activity and its medium dependence. The two types of
peptides differ also in their interaction with host cells. The evolution of these
peptides has thus resulted in distinct mechanisms of action that affect the
direct antimicrobial activity and may also modulate accessory antimicrobial
functions due to interactions with host cells.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M511108200 
PMID: 16720578  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

