

2541. Am J Primatol. 2006 Jun;68(6):585-604.

Individual olfactory signatures in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Smith T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Chester, Chester, United
Kingdom. Teressa.smith@chester.ac.uk

Individual discrimination is likely a prerequisite for most primate social
interactions. Olfactory cues are one set of stimuli used by primates to
discriminate between individuals. Despite the importance of these olfactory
signatures, there is little published research assessing the existence or
function of individually unique odors among primates. This review systematically 
assesses behavioral and biochemical aspects of individual odors in a New World
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). There are three objectives to 
this review: First, behavioral evidence for odors unique to the individual is
evaluated in the context of results demonstrating that marmosets are able to
discriminate between the scents from a familiar and a novel individual
conspecific in behavioral bioassays under a variety of conditions. Second,
biochemical evidence for individual scent signatures is debated with reference to
studies examining qualitative and quantitative differences between the chemical
compositions of scent-mark pools from adult females. A combined gas
chromatography (GC) and mass spectrometry (MS) analysis demonstrated that each
female had a unique ratio of highly volatile chemicals in the scent mark that
could affect individual discrimination. Finally, the possible adaptive
significance of individual odors in marmosets is debated. Individual odors may
play a key role in regulating both female intrasexual competition and intersexual
communication by providing a basis for the assessment of individual quality.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20254 
PMID: 16715508  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

