

2547. J Neurosci. 2006 May 3;26(18):4785-95.

Plasticity of temporal pattern codes for vocalization stimuli in primary auditory
cortex.

Schnupp JW(1), Hall TM, Kokelaar RF, Ahmed B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Physiology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PT, United
Kingdom. jan.schnupp@physiol.ox.ac.uk

It has been suggested that "call-selective" neurons may play an important role in
the encoding of vocalizations in primary auditory cortex (A1). For example,
marmoset A1 neurons often respond more vigorously to natural than to
time-reversed twitter calls, although the spectral energy distribution in the
natural and time-reversed signals is the same. Neurons recorded in cat A1, in
contrast, showed no such selectivity for natural marmoset calls. To investigate
whether call selectivity in A1 can arise purely as a result of auditory
experience, we recorded responses to marmoset calls in A1 of naive ferrets, as
well as in ferrets that had been trained to recognize these natural marmoset
calls. We found that training did not induce call selectivity for the trained
vocalizations in A1. However, although ferret A1 neurons were not call selective,
they efficiently represented the vocalizations through temporal pattern codes,
and trained animals recognized marmoset twitters with a high degree of accuracy. 
These temporal patterns needed to be analyzed at timescales of 10-50 ms to ensure
efficient decoding. Training led to a substantial increase in the amount of
information transmitted by these temporal discharge patterns, but the fundamental
nature of the temporal pattern code remained unaltered. These results emphasize
the importance of temporal discharge patterns and cast doubt on the functional
significance of call-selective neurons in the processing of animal communication 
sounds at the level of A1.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4330-05.2006 
PMCID: PMC6674162
PMID: 16672651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

