

2551. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2006 May;47(5):1768-77.

Change in the synthesis rates of ocular retinoic acid and scleral
glycosaminoglycan during experimentally altered eye growth in marmosets.

Troilo D(1), Nickla DL, Mertz JR, Summers Rada JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science and Disease, The New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. troilod@neco.edu

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to examine the possibility that
all-trans-retinoic acid (RA) in the eye is a signal related to changes in scleral
extracellular matrix in a primate model of postnatal eye growth.
METHODS: Juvenile marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were divided into two
experimental groups based on their response to monocular deprivation with
diffusers: group 1, treated eyes becoming longer than fellow control eyes (n =
8), and group 2, treated eyes becoming shorter than control eyes (n = 7). Eyes
were enucleated, dissected, and assayed for changes in the rates of scleral
glycosaminoglycan (GAG) synthesis and ocular RA synthesis. The rate of
incorporation of (35)SO4 into CPC-precipitable GAG in scleras was taken as a
measure of the rate of synthesis of proteoglycans. In the same eyes the rate of
RA synthesis in vivo was measured separately in the retina and the choroid/RPE
(choroid with RPE attached) by HPLC. The effect of RA on the rate of scleral GAG 
synthesis was also examined in tissue-cultured pieces of sclera from additional
marmosets.
RESULTS: Induced changes in vitreous chamber length in diffuser-treated eyes
correlated inversely with the rate of scleral GAG synthesis (P < 0.05) and
directly correlated with the rate of RA synthesis measured separately in the
retina (P < 0.05) and the choroid/RPE (P < 0.05). In group 1, the rate of scleral
GAG synthesis was significantly lower (P < 0.01) in the treated eyes relative to 
control eyes, and the rate of RA synthesis in both the retina and the choroid/RPE
was significantly higher (P < 0.01). In group 2, the rates of scleral GAG
synthesis and RA synthesis in either the retina or choroid/RPE were not found to 
change significantly in the treated eyes compared with the control eyes. RA
partially reduces the rate of scleral GAG synthesis in tissue-cultured primate
sclera in a dose-dependent manner after several days.
CONCLUSIONS: RA may play a role in the visual control of postnatal eye growth in 
primates, possibly by inducing changes in scleral extracellular matrix associated
with increasing eye size. Decreasing growth rate below control levels may involve
other mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.05-0298 
PMCID: PMC1892188
PMID: 16638980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

