

2554. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2006 Jul;31(6):692-702. Epub 2006 Apr 18.

Hypoestrogenism does not mediate social suppression of cortisol in subordinate
female marmosets.

Saltzman W(1), Hogan BK, Allen AJ, Horman BM, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.
saltzman@ucr.edu

Behaviorally subordinate female marmosets undergo social suppression of ovulation
and hypoestrogenism, as well as chronic reductions in circulating basal cortisol 
concentrations. Because estrogen elevates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis
activity and circulating glucocorticoid levels in other species, we tested the
hypothesis that socially induced hypoestrogenism contributes to cortisol
reductions in subordinate female marmosets. We characterized morning basal plasma
cortisol levels, as well as cortisol responses to exogenous adrenocorticotropic
hormone (ACTH; 0, 1, or 10 microg/kg), in seven anovulatory subordinate females
and six ovariectomized, non-subordinate females under two conditions: during
long-term treatment with estradiol (E2) and control. Circulating E2 and cortisol 
levels were compared to those of six dominant females undergoing ovulatory
cycles. Basal cortisol concentrations in the control condition were significantly
lower in subordinates than in both dominant and ovariectomized females. E2
treatment elevated circulating E2 levels of subordinate and ovariectomized
females into the range seen in dominant females but did not increase either mean 
basal or ACTH-stimulated cortisol levels. To the contrary, E2 treatment caused a 
decline in basal cortisol levels over time, especially in ovariectomized animals.
These results indicate that treatment with exogenous estrogen does not elevate
circulating cortisol levels in previously hypoestrogenemic female marmosets and, 
correspondingly that socially induced hypoestrogenism does not diminish cortisol 
levels in subordinate females.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2006.01.006 
PMID: 16624494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

