

2555. Eur J Neurosci. 2006 Apr;23(7):1766-74.

MPTP treatment of common marmosets impairs proteasomal enzyme activity and
decreases expression of structural and regulatory elements of the 26S proteasome.

Zeng BY(1), Iravani MM, Lin ST, Irifune M, Kuoppamäki M, Al-Barghouthy G, Smith
L, Jackson MJ, Rose S, Medhurst AD, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, GKT School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasome system occurs in the substantia nigra
(SN) in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, it is unknown whether this is a
primary cause or a secondary consequence of other components of the pathogenic
process. We have investigated in nonhuman primates whether initiating cell death 
through mitochondrial complex I inhibition using
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride (MPTP) altered
proteasomal activity or the proteasomal components in the SN. Chymotrypsin-like, 
trypsin-like and peptidylglutamyl-peptide hydrolase (PGPH) activating of 20S
proteasome were decreased in SN homogenates of MPTP-treated marmosets compared to
naïve animals. Western blotting revealed a marked decrease in the expression of
20S-alpha subunits, but no change in 20S-beta subunits in the SN of MPTP-treated 
marmoset compared to naïve animals. There was a marked decrease in the expression
of the proteasome activator 700 (PA700) and proteasome activator 28 (PA28)
regulatory complexes. The 20S-alpha4 subunit immunoreactivity was decreased in
the nucleus of colocalized tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells of
MPTP-treated animals compared to naïve animals but no difference in the intensity
of 20S-beta1i subunit staining. Immunoreactivity for PA700-Rpt5 and PA28-alpha
subunits within surviving TH-positive cells of MPTP-treated marmoset was reduced 
compared to naïve controls. Overall, the changes in proteasomal function and
structure occurring follow MPTP-induced destruction of the SN in common marmosets
were very similar to those found in PD. This suggests that altered proteasomal
function in PD could be a consequence of other pathogenic processes occurring in 
SN as opposed to initiating cell death as previously suggested.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.04718.x 
PMID: 16623833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

