

2556. Peptides. 2006 Sep;27(9):2214-23. Epub 2006 Apr 18.

Interaction of the tachykinin NK3 receptor agonist senktide with behavioral
effects of cocaine in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

de Souza Silva MA(1), Mello EL Jr, M체ller CP, Jocham G, Maior RS, Huston JP,
Tomaz C, Barros M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiological Psychology and Center for Biological and Medical
Research, University of D체sseldorf, Universit채tsstr. 1, 40225 D체sseldorf,
Germany.

Brain neuropeptide transmitters of the tachykinin family are involved in the
organization of many behaviors. However, little is known about their contribution
to the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse. Recently, antagonism of the
tachykinin NK3-receptor (NK3-R), one of the three tachykinin receptors in the
brain, was shown to attenuate the acute and chronic behavioral effects of cocaine
in rats and the acute effects in non-human primates. In order to expand these
findings we investigated the effects of the NK3-R agonist, succinyl-[Asp6,
Me-Phe8]SP(6-11) (senktide), on the acute behavioral effects of cocaine in
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) using a figure-eight maze procedure.
Animals were pretreated with senktide (0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4 mg/kg, s.c.), and
received either a treatment with cocaine (10 mg/kg) or saline (i.p.). Cocaine
increased locomotor activity and the duration of aerial scanning behavior, but
reduced exploratory activity, bodycare activity, the frequency of aerial
scanning, and terrestrial glance behavior. Senktide blocked the effects of
cocaine on locomotor activity, but enhanced the cocaine effects on exploratory
activity, aerial scanning frequency, and terrestrial glance behavior. Senktide
alone did not significantly influence monkey behavior in this study. These data
expand previous findings suggesting a complex role of the NK3-R in the acute
behavioral effects of cocaine in non-human primates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.peptides.2006.03.005 
PMID: 16621146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

