

2558. J Neurosci. 2006 Apr 12;26(15):3908-17.

Random wiring in the midget pathway of primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Department of Optometry and
Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

The present study addresses the questions of how topographically organized
neuronal populations are connected, and whether there is anatomical evidence for 
color-selective wiring in retinal pathways for red-green color vision. The
connectivity of OFF midget bipolar and OFF midget ganglion cells was studied in
the peripheral retina of dichromatic ("red-green color blind") and trichromatic
("color normal") marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Midget bipolar cells were
identified immunohistochemically. Midget ganglion cells were retrogradely labeled
from the lateral geniculate nucleus and photofilled. Comparable results were
obtained from all retinas studied. Between 3 and 16 bipolar terminals converge
onto each ganglion cell. Nearly all bipolar terminals investigated show regions
of colocalization (areas of presumed synaptic contacts) with ganglion cell
dendrites. This contact area makes up approximately 14% of the axon surface area 
for a typical midget bipolar cell. The output from individual midget bipolar
axons is often shared between midget ganglion cells so that, on average, <70% of 
the axon terminal area of a midget bipolar cell shows overlap with the dendritic 
field of a given midget ganglion cell. We conclude that there is no morphological
evidence of red-green color selectivity in the connections between midget bipolar
and midget ganglion cell mosaics. Furthermore, the results suggest that
convergence is based on local interactions between axons and dendrites rather
than cell-by-cell recognition between members of each mosaic.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4891-05.2006 
PMCID: PMC6673888
PMID: 16611806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

