

2564. Neuropharmacology. 2006 Jun;50(8):975-83. Epub 2006 Mar 31.

Characterisation of the selective 5-HT1B receptor antagonist SB-616234-A
(1-[6-(cis-3,5-dimethylpiperazin-1-yl)-2,3-dihydro-5-methoxyindol-1-yl]-1-[2'-met
hyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methanone hydrochloride): in 
vivo neurochemical and behavioural evidence of anxiolytic/antidepressant
activity.

Dawson LA(1), Hughes ZA, Starr KR, Storey JD, Bettelini L, Bacchi F, Arban R,
Poffe A, Melotto S, Hagan JJ, Price GW.

Author information: 
(1)Psychiatry Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery, GlaxoSmithKline, New
Frontiers Science Park (North), 3rd Avenue, Harlow, Essex CM19 5AW, UK.
lee.a.dawson@gsk.com

The 5-HT1B receptor has attracted significant interest as a potential target for 
the development of therapeutics for the treatment of affective disorders such as 
anxiety and depression. Here we present the in vivo characterisation of a novel, 
selective and orally bioavailable 5-HT1B receptor antagonist, SB-616234-A
(1-[6-(cis-3,5-dimethylpiperazin-1-yl)-2,3-dihydro-5-methoxyindol-1-yl]-1-[2'-met
hyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methanone hydrochloride).
SB-616234-A reversed the 5-HT1/7 receptor agonist, SKF-99101H-induced hypothermia
in guinea pigs in a dose related manner with an ED50 of 2.4 mg/kg p.o. Using in
vivo microdialysis in freely moving guinea pigs, SB-616234-A (3-30 mg/kg p.o.)
caused a dose-related increase in extracellular 5-HT in the dentate gyrus.
Evaluation of antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects of this 5-HT1B receptor
antagonist was performed in a variety of models and species. SB-616234-A produced
a decrease in immobility time in the mouse forced swim test; an effect suggestive
of antidepressant activity. Furthermore, SB-616234-A produced dose-related
anxiolytic effects in both rat and guinea pig maternal separation-induced
vocalisation models with an ED50 of 1.0 and 3.3 mg/kg i.p., respectively (vs
fluoxetine treatment ED50 = 2.2 mg/kg i.p. in both species). Also a significant
reduction in posturing behaviours was observed in the human threat test in
marmosets; an effect indicative of anxiolytic activity. In summary, SB-616234-A
is a novel, potent and orally bioavailable 5-HT1B receptor antagonist which
exhibits a neurochemical and behavioural profile that is consistent with both
anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like activity in a variety of species. Taken
together these data suggest that SB-616234-A may have therapeutic efficacy in the
treatment of affective disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2006.01.010 
PMID: 16581092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

