

2570. Mov Disord. 2006 Jun;21(6):839-46.

Histamine H3 receptor agonists reduce L-dopa-induced chorea, but not dystonia, in
the MPTP-lesioned nonhuman primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Gomez-Ramirez J(1), Johnston TH, Visanji NP, Fox SH, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, University
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

L-dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) remains a major complication of the treatment of 
Parkinson's disease. The neural mechanisms underlying LID are thought to involve 
overactivity of striatal glutamatergic neurotransmission, with resultant
underactivation of the output regions of the basal ganglia. Histamine H3
heteroreceptors can reduce glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)
transmission in the striatum and substantia nigra reticulata, respectively. Thus,
we tested whether the histamine H3 receptor agonists immepip and imetit can
alleviate LID in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.
Coadministration of immepip (1 mg/kg) with L-dopa (15 mg/kg) was associated with 
significantly less total dyskinesia than L-dopa alone. When dyskinesia was
separately rated as chorea and dystonia, coadministration of L-dopa with either
immepip or imetit (both 10 mg/kg) significantly reduced chorea but had no effect 
on dystonia. The antidyskinetic actions of the H3 agonists were not accompanied
by alteration of the antiparkinsonian actions of L-dopa. However, immepip (10
mg/kg), when administered as monotherapy, significantly increased parkinsonian
disability compared to vehicle. Overall, the results obtained in this study
suggest that histamine H3 receptors may be involved in the neural mechanisms
underlying L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.20828 
PMID: 16532454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

