

2571. Drug Metab Dispos. 2006 Jun;34(6):971-5. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

In vitro blood distribution and plasma protein binding of the iron chelator
deferasirox (ICL670) and its iron complex Fe-[ICL670]2 for rat, marmoset, rabbit,
mouse, dog, and human.

Weiss HM(1), Fresneau M, Camenisch GP, Kretz O, Gross G.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland. markus.weiss@novartis.com

Deferasirox (Exjade, ICL670) is an orally active iron chelator. Two molecules of 
deferasirox can form a complex with ferric iron (Fe-[ICL670]2) that can be
excreted, reducing body iron overload. The blood binding parameters across
species and the interaction with human serum albumin were analyzed for
deferasirox and its iron complex. Both molecules were very highly bound to plasma
proteins in all the tested species with unbound fractions in plasma in the range 
of 0.4 to 1.8% and 0.2 to 1.2% for deferasirox and Fe-[ICL670]2, respectively;
binding of the iron complex was either similar or higher in all the species. The 
high plasma protein binding was in line with a distribution mainly into the
plasma fraction of blood; the fraction in plasma was around 100% for Fe-[ICL670]2
in all the species and 65 to 95% for deferasirox depending on the species.
Investigations with isolated proteins pointed to serum albumin as the principal
binding protein for deferasirox and its iron complex in human plasma. Competition
binding experiments indicated that deferasirox at high concentrations displaced
markers from the two main drug binding sites of human albumin, whereas
Fe-[ICL670]2 displaced only warfarin. In the context of the pharmacokinetic
properties of deferasirox and Fe-[ICL670]2, the data indicate the importance of
plasma protein binding for their disposition and support a comparison of the
pharmacokinetics of deferasirox and its iron complex across species. The low
likelihood of clinically relevant drug displacement by deferasirox in plasma is
discussed.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.105.006429 
PMID: 16531476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

