

2575. Immunogenetics. 2006 Apr;58(2-3):122-8. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

Restrictive and diversifying elements of the anti-myelin/oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein antibody response in primate experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis.

von Büdingen HC(1), Menge T, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Zürich, 8091, Zürich,
Switzerland.

Autoantibody responses against conformational epitopes of myelin/oligodendrocyte 
glycoprotein (MOG) possess myelin destructive potential, as demonstrated in the
marmoset model of human multiple sclerosis (MS) and in some rodent models of
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. We have previously characterized
monoclonal Fab fragments specific for conformational epitopes of MOG that were
derived from a combinatorial antibody library generated from a MOG-immune
marmoset. In this paper, we address the molecular heterogeneity of humoral
responses against MOG in this outbred model of MS by studying additional antibody
clones derived from a genetically unrelated animal. We find that all MOG-specific
IgGkappa Fab fragments, unrelated to genetic make-up, utilize a restricted set of
variable region genes, IGHV1 and IGHV3 for the H chain and IGKV1, IGKV3, and
IGKV5 for the L chain. Despite these restricting factors, diversity within these 
antibody repertoires can be observed, predominantly within the H-chain CDR3
regions. Our findings suggest that only a limited set of Ig genes is necessary to
launch a diverse, destructive humoral immune response against a single CNS
antigen in primates. These results are the first to contribute to a better
understanding of how myelin-directed and potentially destructive autoantibody
responses may develop in human MS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-006-0100-y 
PMID: 16528499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

