

2581. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Feb 28;103(9):3186-91. Epub 2006 Feb 17.

Phylogenetic comparisons suggest that distance from the locus control region
guides developmental expression of primate beta-type globin genes.

Johnson RM(1), Prychitko T, Gumucio D, Wildman DE, Uddin M, Goodman M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Wayne State University
School of Medicine, Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

Phylogenetic inferences drawn from comparative data on mammalian beta-globin gene
clusters indicate that the ancestral primate cluster contained a locus control
region (LCR) and five paralogously related beta-type globin loci
(5'-LCR-epsilon-gamma-psieta-delta-beta-3'), with epsilon and gamma expressed
solely during embryonic life. A gamma locus tandem duplication
(5'-gamma(1)-gamma(2)-3') triggered gamma's evolution toward fetal expression but
by a different trajectory in platyrrhines (New World monkeys) than in catarrhines
(Old World monkeys and apes, including humans). In platyrrhine (e.g., Cebus)
fetuses, gamma(1) at the ancestral distance from epsilon is down-regulated,
whereas gamma(2) at increased distance is up-regulated. Catarrhine gamma(1) and
gamma(2) acquired longer distances from epsilon (14 and 19 kb, respectively), and
both are up-regulated throughout fetal life with gamma(1)'s expression
predominating over gamma(2)'s. On enlarging the platyrrhine expression data, we
find Aotus gamma is embryonic, Alouatta gamma is inactive at term, and in
Callithrix, gamma(1) is down-regulated fetally, whereas gamma(2) is up-regulated.
Of eight mammalian taxa now represented per taxon by embryonic, fetal, and
postnatal beta-type globin gene expression data, four taxa are primates, and data
for three of these primates are from this laboratory. Our results support a model
in which a short distance (<10 kb) between epsilon and the adjacent gamma is a
plesiomorphic character that allows the LCR to drive embryonic expression of both
genes, whereas a longer distance (>10 kb) impedes embryonic activation of the
downstream gene.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0511347103 
PMCID: PMC1413942
PMID: 16488971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

