

2583. Cereb Cortex. 2007 Jan;17(1):18-27. Epub 2006 Feb 15.

Cognitive inflexibility after prefrontal serotonin depletion is behaviorally and 
neurochemically specific.

Clarke HF(1), Walker SC, Dalley JW, Robbins TW, Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing
Street, Cambridge, CB2 3EB, UK. hfc23@cam.ac.uk

We have previously demonstrated that prefrontal serotonin depletion impairs
orbitofrontal cortex (OFC)-mediated serial discrimination reversal (SDR) learning
but not lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC)-mediated attentional set shifting. To
address the neurochemical specificity of this reversal deficit, Experiment 1
compared the effects of selective serotonin and selective dopamine depletions of 
the OFC on performance of the SDR task. Whereas serotonin depletions markedly
impaired performance, OFC dopamine depletions were without effect. The behavioral
specificity of this reversal impairment was investigated in Experiment 2 by
examining the effect of OFC serotonin depletion on performance of a modified SDR 
task designed to distinguish between 3 possible causes of the impairment. The
results showed that the reversal deficit induced by prefrontal serotonin
depletion was not due to a failure to approach a previously unrewarded stimulus
(enhanced learned avoidance) or reduced proactive interference. Instead, it was
due specifically to a failure to inhibit responding to the previously rewarded
stimulus. The neurochemical and behavioral specificity of this particular form of
cognitive inflexibility is of particular relevance to our understanding of the
aetiology and treatment of inflexible behavior apparent in many neuropsychiatric 
and neurodegenerative disorders involving the PFC.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhj120 
PMID: 16481566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

