

2589. Cancer Lett. 2006 Feb 8;232(2):189-98.

siRNA targeting LMP1-induced apoptosis in EBV-positive lymphoma cells is
associated with inhibition of telomerase activity and expression.

Mei YP(1), Zhu XF, Zhou JM, Huang H, Deng R, Zeng YX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Research, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in
Southern China, Cancer Center, Sun Yat-sen University, 651 DongFeng Road East,
GuangZhou 510060, China.

Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) is closely associated with B cell malignancies. However,
whether EBV appears to be absolutely required for cell proliferation and survival
in lymphoma cells is still unknown. In this study, small interfering RNA (siRNA) 
targeting LMP1 was employed to investigate the effect of LMP1 on cell
proliferation in EBV-positive lymphoblastoid B-cell line. A plasmid stable
encoding 21-nt small RNA specifically and efficiently interfering LMP1 was
constructed, resulting in a substantial loss of LMP1 mRNA and a significantly
decreased LMP1 protein expression. Our data demonstrated that cell proliferation 
was completely inhibited and apoptosis was induced after knockdown of LMP1 gene
in lymphoblastoid B-cell line. Also, we found that suppression of LMP1 caused
downregulation of telomerase protein expression and decreased telomerase activity
in lymphoma cells. In EBV-negative NPC cell line, transfection of plasmid
expressing LMP1 greatly enhanced telomerase protein expression. Our results
suggested that siRNA targeting LMP1 can induce apoptosis in EBV-positive lymphoma
cells and is associated with inhibition of telomerase activity and expression.
siRNA-directed LMP1 silencing may be of the therapeutic value for preventing and 
treating those EBV-associated tumors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2005.02.010 
PMID: 16458115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

