

2591. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Mar 10;495(2):149-72.

Cytoarchitectonic subdivisions of the dorsolateral frontal cortex of the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus), and their projections to dorsal visual areas.

Burman KJ(1), Palmer SM, Gamberini M, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.
kathleen.burman@med.monash.edu.au

We describe the organization of the dorsolateral frontal areas in marmoset
monkeys using a combination of architectural methods (Nissl, cytochrome oxidase, 
and myelin stains) and injections of fluorescent tracers in extrastriate areas
(the second visual area [V2], the dorsomedial and dorsoanterior areas [DM, DA],
the middle temporal area and middle temporal crescent [MT, MTc], and the
posterior parietal cortex [area 7]). Cytoarchitectural field 8 comprises three
subdivisions: 8Av, 8Ad, and 8B. The ventrolateral subdivision, 8Av, forms the
principal source of frontal projections to the "dorsal stream," having
connections with each of the injected visual areas. The cytoarchitectural
characteristics of 8Av suggest that this subdivision corresponds to the
marmoset's frontal eye field. The intermediate subdivision of area 8 (8Ad) has
efferent projections to area 7, while the dorsomedial subdivision (8B) has few or
no connections with extrastriate cortex. Area 46, located rostrolateral to area
8Av, has substantial connections with the medial extrastriate areas (DM, DA, and 
area 7) and with MT, while the cortex lateral to 8Av (area 12/45) projects
primarily to MT and to the MTc. The rostromedial prefrontal (area 9) and
frontopolar (area 10) regions have very few extrastriate projections. Finally,
cells in dorsal area 6 (6d) have sparse projections to DM, MT, and the MTc, as
well as strong projections to DA and to area 7. These results illuminate aspects 
of the evolutionary development of the primate frontal cortex, and serve as a
basis for further research into cognitive functions using a marmoset model.

Copyright 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20837 
PMID: 16435289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

