

2597. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2006 Feb 26;246(1-2):107-13. Epub 2006 Jan 6.

Expression of steroid hormone receptors, proliferation and apoptotic markers in
primate endometrium.

Narkar M(1), Kholkute S, Chitlange S, Nandedkar T.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Division, National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health 
(ICMR), J.M. Street, Parel, Mumbai 400 012, India.

In humans, circulating levels of steroid hormones vary during the menstrual
cycle, with oestrogen elevated in the proliferative phase and progesterone
increased during the secretory phase. In humans, oestrogen levels also increased 
during the mid-secretory phase, but this is not observed in non-human primates.
In marmosets, the New World monkeys, plasma oestrogen and progesterone levels
exhibit similar profiles as those found in Old World monkeys, however, these
animals do not menstruate. Proliferative and apoptotic changes occur at specific 
phases of the menstrual cycle, suggesting regulation by steroid hormones. It was,
therefore, of interest to compare expression of steroid hormone receptors,
proliferation and apoptotic markers in the uterine endometrium of marmosets and
humans. Localization of oestrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) was observed in
glandular epithelial cells during the proliferative phase in marmosets and in
human endometria. A decrease in ER-alpha and progesterone receptor (PR-A) was
observed during the mid luteal phase in both species although a postovulatory
oestradiol peak is observed in human but not in marmoset. A decrease in PR-A in
the late secretory phase was seen in marmoset as well as in human endometria. The
proliferation marker PCNA was enhanced in the proliferative phase in both
species, but it was increased in late secretory phase only in marmosets.
Apoptosis as revealed by a TUNEL assay was moderate in early stage in both
species. Surprisingly, apoptosis, as well as the localization of the
pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family member, Bax, was optimal in marmosets during the
mid-secretory phase when plasma progesterone levels were high. On the other hand,
in the human, apoptosis was maximal by TUNEL assay in late secretory phase, but
Bax protein was highest in the mid-secretory phase. Thus, Bax may be initiating
apoptosis in the endometrial glands as well as in the stroma. Although the
pattern of steroid receptor expression in endometria of marmosets and humans are 
similar, proliferation and apoptosis markers appear to be regulated by other
factors along with steroid hormones.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2005.11.029 
PMID: 16406267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

