

260. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Oct 6;117(40):25116-25127. doi:
10.1073/pnas.2009657117. Epub 2020 Sep 21.

Ventromedial prefrontal area 14 provides opposing regulation of threat and
reward-elicited responses in the common marmoset.

Stawicka ZM(1)(2), Massoudi R(1)(2), Horst NK(2)(3), Koda K(1)(2), Gaskin
PLR(1)(2), Alexander L(1)(2), Santangelo AM(1)(2), McIver L(1)(2), Cockcroft
GJ(1)(2), Wood CM(4)(2), Roberts AC(4)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.
(2)Behavioral and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United
Kingdom.
(4)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom; cmw84@cam.ac.uk acr4@cam.ac.uk.

The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) is a key brain structure implicated in
mood and anxiety disorders, based primarily on evidence from correlational
neuroimaging studies. Composed of a number of brain regions with distinct
architecture and connectivity, dissecting its functional heterogeneity will
provide key insights into the symptomatology of these disorders. Focusing on area
14, lying on the medial and orbital surfaces of the gyrus rectus, this study
addresses a key question of causality. Do changes in area 14 activity induce
changes in threat- and reward-elicited responses within the nonhuman primate, the
common marmoset, similar to that seen in mood and anxiety disorders? Area 14
overactivation was found to induce heightened responsivity to uncertain,
low-imminence threat while blunting cardiovascular and behavioral anticipatory
arousal to high-value food reward. Conversely, inactivation enhanced the arousal 
to high-value reward cues while dampening the acquisition of cardiovascular and
behavioral responses to a Pavlovian threat cue. Basal cardiovascular activity,
including heart rate variability and sympathovagal balance, which are
dysfunctional in mood and anxiety disorders, are insensitive to alterations in
area 14 activity as is the extinction of conditioned threat responses. The
distinct pattern of dysregulation compared to neighboring region area 25
highlights the heterogeneity of function within vmPFC and reveals how the effects
of area 14 overactivation on positive and negative reactivity mirror symptoms of 
anhedonia and anxiety that are so often comorbid in mood disorders.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2009657117 
PMCID: PMC7547281
PMID: 32958652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

