

2606. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Dec;22(11):2886-902.

Heteromodal connections supporting multisensory integration at low levels of
cortical processing in the monkey.

Cappe C(1), Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Cerveau & Cognition, CNRS-UMR 5549 Universit√© Paul Sabatier, Toulouse III,
Toulouse, France.

While multisensory integration is thought to occur in higher hierarchical
cortical areas, recent studies in man and monkey have revealed plurisensory
modulations of activity in areas previously thought to be unimodal. To determine 
the cortical network involved in multisensory interactions, we performed multiple
injections of different retrograde tracers in unimodal auditory (core),
somatosensory (1/3b) and visual (V2 and MT) cortical areas of the marmoset. We
found three types of heteromodal connections linking unimodal sensory areas.
Visuo-somatosensory projections were observed originating from visual areas
[probably the ventral and dorsal fundus of the superior temporal area (FSTv and
FSTd), and middle temporal crescent (MTc)] toward areas 1/3b. Somatosensory
projections to the auditory cortex were present from S2 and the anterior bank of 
the lateral sulcus. Finally, a visuo-auditory projection arises from an area
anterior to the superior temporal sulcus (STS) toward the auditory core.
Injections in different sensory regions allow us to define the frontal convexity 
and the temporal opercular caudal cortex as putative polysensory areas. A
quantitative analysis of the laminar distribution of projecting neurons showed
that heteromodal connections could be either feedback or feedforward. Taken
together, our results provide the anatomical pathway for multisensory integration
at low levels of information processing in the primate and argue against a strict
hierarchical model.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04462.x 
PMID: 16324124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

