

2607. J Comp Neurol. 2006 Jan 10;494(2):260-74.

Synaptic connectivity in the midget-parvocellular pathway of primate central
retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053.

The synaptic connectivity of OFF midget bipolar cells was investigated in the
central retina of two primate species, the New World common marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus, and the Old World macaque monkey, Macaca fascicularis. In
marmosets, dichromatic and trichromatic animals were compared. Bipolar output
synapses were identified with antibodies against ribbon proteins (kinesin,
C-terminal binding protein 2) or with an antiserum that recognizes postsynaptic
glutamate receptor clusters (GluR4). The midget bipolar cells were identified
immunocytochemically with antibodies to CD15 (marmoset) or an antiserum to
recoverin (macaque). In marmosets, midget ganglion cells were retrogradely
labeled from the parvocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus.
Consistent with previous studies of Old World primates, in marmoset, midget
bipolar cells contacted midget ganglion cells at a ratio of 1:1. The number of
output synapses made by OFF midget bipolar cells was quantified for 104 cells in 
two dichromatic marmosets, 108 cells in one trichromatic marmoset, and 118 cells 
in one macaque. The number of output synapses was comparable for all animals,
ranging from 10-71 in the dichromatic marmoset (average 29.7 +/- 12.4 SD), 12-86 
in the trichromatic marmoset (average 28.6 +/- 11.7 SD) and 9-48 in the macaque
(average 26.5 +/- 9.3 SD) per axon terminal. In all animals the number of output 
synapses per axon terminal showed a unimodal distribution. Our results suggest
that the midget circuitry is comparable in dichromatic and trichromatic animals.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20804 
PMID: 16320234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

