

2608. Biol Reprod. 2006 Apr;74(4):616-24. Epub 2005 Nov 30.

The seminiferous epithelium cycle length in the black tufted-ear marmoset
(Callithrix penicillata) is similar to humans.

Leal MC(1), Fran√ßa LR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Biology, Department of Morphology, Institute of
Biological Sciences, Federal University of Minas Gerais, 31270-901 Belo Horizonte
MG, Brazil.

Marmosets are New World small primates phylogenetically close to humans and are
commonly used in biomedical research. Although the reproductive biology of the
common marmoset Callithrix jacchus is fairly well investigated, there are few
data available for testis function for its close relative, Callithrix
penicillata. In this regard, the present study was performed to investigate
testis structure, spermatogenic cycle length, and spermatogenic and Sertoli cell 
efficiencies in eight captive C. penicillata. These animals received
(3)H-thymidine injections and had their testes perfused-fixed with glutaraldehyde
and embedded in plastic at different time periods after (3)H-thymidine
injections, for histomorphometric and autoradiographic evaluation. The analysis
of the different germ cell associations showed that two or more stages were
observed in about 30% of the seminiferous tubule cross sections investigated. The
values found for spermatogenic cycle length and for total duration of
spermatogenesis in the marmoset C. penicillata, 15.4 and 69.3 days respectively, 
were very close to those cited in the literature for humans. However, the results
observed for Sertoli cell efficiency (number of round spermatids per Sertoli
cell; 8:1) and spermatogenic efficiency (daily sperm production per gram of
testis; 18.4 million) were substantially higher than those observed for humans.
The results found in the present investigation suggest that the black tufted-ear 
marmoset C. penicillata might represent an alternative and useful experimental
model to perform comparative studies regarding the spermatogenic process,
particularly in investigations related to the expansion of spermatogonial stem
cells and the establishment of spermatogenic waves.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.105.048074 
PMID: 16319285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

