

2611. J Med Chem. 2005 Dec 1;48(24):7808-20.

Adenosine kinase inhibitors. 6. Synthesis, water solubility, and antinociceptive 
activity of 5-phenyl-7-(5-deoxy-beta-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidines
substituted at C4 with glycinamides and related compounds.

Bookser BC(1), Ugarkar BG, Matelich MC, Lemus RH, Allan M, Tsuchiya M, Nakane M, 
Nagahisa A, Wiesner JB, Erion MD.

Author information: 
(1)Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., 9390 Towne Centre Drive, San Diego, California
92121, USA. bookser@mbasis.com

4-(Phenylamino)-5-phenyl-7-(5-deoxy-beta-D-ribofuranosyl)pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine
1 and related compounds known as "diaryltubercidin" analogues are potent
inhibitors of adenosine kinase (AK) and are orally active in animal models of
pain such as the rat formalin paw model (GP3269 ED50= 6.4 mg/kg). However, the
utility of this compound class is limited by poor water solubility that can be
attributed to the high energy of crystallization caused by stacking of the
parallel C4 and C5 aryl rings in the solid state (compound 1 and GP3269 each with
pH 7.4 solubility <0.05 microg/mL). To increase water solubility, the hydrophobic
C4-phenylamino substituent was replaced with a more hydrophilic group,
glycinamide. This modification resulted in improved water solubility while
retaining AK inhibition potency. Analogues were studied where changes in the
glycinamide moiety were combined with changes to the base and sugar. A lead
compound,
4-N-(N-cyclopropylcarbamoylmethyl)amino-5-phenyl-7-(5-deoxy-beta-D-ribofuranosyl)
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine (16c) (IC50= 3 nM and water solubility = 32 +/- 9
microg/mL at pH 7.4), was further characterized in biological assays. Compound
16c exhibited strong oral efficacy in the rat formalin paw model (ED50 of 2.5
mg/kg). In the most advanced assay, 16c was found to inhibit bradykinin-induced
licking in marmoset monkeys with an ED50 estimated at 0.9 mg/kg without producing
evidence of side effects such as ataxia, sedation, and emesis at this dose.
However, lethal toxicity in the rat formalin paw model occurred with high doses
of 16c, and further work on this series was discontinued.

DOI: 10.1021/jm050394a 
PMID: 16302820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

