

2613. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Sep;16(9):1361-75. Epub 2005 Nov 16.

Quantitative analysis of the corticocortical projections to the middle temporal
area in the marmoset monkey: evolutionary and functional implications.

Palmer SM(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.

The connections of the middle temporal area (MT) were investigated in the
marmoset, one of the smallest primates. Reflecting the predictions of studies
that modeled cortical allometric growth and development, we found that in adult
marmosets MT is connected to a more extensive network of cortical areas than in
larger primates, including consistent connections with retrosplenial, cingulate, 
and parahippocampal areas and more widespread connections with temporal, frontal,
and parietal areas. Quantitative analyses reveal that MT receives the majority of
its afferents from other motion-sensitive areas in the temporal lobe and from the
occipitoparietal transition areas, each of these regions containing approximately
30% of the projecting cells. Projections from the primary visual area (V1) and
the second visual area (V2) account for approximately 20% of projecting neurons, 
whereas "ventral stream" and higher-order association areas form quantitatively
minor projections. A relationship exists between the percentage of supragranular 
layer neurons forming the projections from different areas and their putative
hierarchical rank. However, this relationship is clearer for projections from
ventral stream areas than it is for projections from dorsal stream or frontal
areas. These results provide the first quantitative data on the connections of MT
and extend current understanding of the relationship between cortical anatomy and
function in evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhj078 
PMID: 16292001  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

