

262. mSphere. 2020 Sep 16;5(5). pii: e00794-20. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00794-20.

Fecal Short-Chain Fatty Acid Concentrations Increase in Newly Paired Male
Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Zhu L(1)(2), Suhr Van Haute MJ(2)(3), Hassenstab HR(4), Smith C(2)(3), Rose
DJ(2)(3), Mustoe AC(4)(2)(5), Benson AK(2)(3), French JA(4)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA
zhulf2020@126.com.
(2)Nebraska Food for Health Center, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln,
Nebraska, USA.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, University of Nebraska-Lincoln,
Lincoln, Nebraska, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska,
USA.

The role by which the gut microbiome influences host health (e.g., energy
equilibrium and immune system) may be partly mediated by short-chain fatty acids,
which are bacterial fermentation products from the dietary fibers. However,
little is known about longitudinal changes in gut microbiome metabolites during
cohabitation alongside social contact. In common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), 
the gut microbiome community is influenced by social contact, as newly paired
males and females develop convergent microbial profiles. Here, we monitored the
dynamics of short-chain fatty acid concentrations in common marmoset feces from
the prepairing (PRE) to postpairing (POST) stages. In males, we observed that the
concentrations of acetate, propionate, isobutyrate, and isovalerate significantly
increased in the POST stage compared to the PRE stage. However, no significant
changes were found in females. We further found that the propionate concentration
was significantly positively correlated with the abundance of
Phascolarctobacterium in the male feces. Thus, the sex difference in the changes 
in the concentrations of short-chain fatty acids might be related to sex-biased
gut microbiome transmission after pairing. We suggest that the significant
changes in the gut microbiomes and some short-chain fatty acids of the common
marmoset during cohabitation may contribute to physiological homeostasis during
pairing.IMPORTANCE This study addressed a knowledge gap about longitudinal
changes in the gut microbiome metabolites during animal pairing. This research in
the laboratory common marmoset can control for the confounding factors such as
diet and other environmental conditions. Phascolarctobacterium showed the highest
contribution to the sex-biased transmission of the female to the male after
pairing. Here, we observed the sex difference in the increase in short-chain
fatty acid concentration in the feces of newly paired marmosets, which may be
caused by the sex-biased gut microbiome transmission after pairing.

Copyright Â© 2020 Zhu et al.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00794-20 
PMCID: PMC7494834
PMID: 32938699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

