

2622. J Neurophysiol. 2006 Feb;95(2):1244-62. Epub 2005 Oct 5.

Virtual vocalization stimuli for investigating neural representations of
species-specific vocalizations.

DiMattina C(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Neuroscience, The Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Most studies investigating neural representations of species-specific
vocalizations in non-human primates and other species have involved studying
neural responses to vocalization tokens. One limitation of such approaches is the
difficulty in determining which acoustical features of vocalizations evoke neural
responses. Traditionally used filtering techniques are often inadequate in
manipulating features of complex vocalizations. Furthermore, the use of
vocalization tokens cannot fully account for intrinsic stochastic variations of
vocalizations that are crucial in understanding the neural codes for categorizing
and discriminating vocalizations differing along multiple feature dimensions. In 
this work, we have taken a rigorous and novel approach to the study of
species-specific vocalization processing by creating parametric "virtual
vocalization" models of major call types produced by the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus). The main findings are as follows. 1) Acoustical parameters 
were measured from a database of the four major call types of the common
marmoset. This database was obtained from eight different individuals, and for
each individual, we typically obtained hundreds of samples of each major call
type. 2) These feature measurements were employed to parameterize models defining
representative virtual vocalizations of each call type for each of the eight
animals as well as an overall species-representative virtual vocalization
averaged across individuals for each call type. 3) Using the same
feature-measurement that was applied to the vocalization samples, we measured
acoustical features of the virtual vocalizations, including features not
explicitly modeled and found the virtual vocalizations to be statistically
representative of the callers and call types. 4) The accuracy of the virtual
vocalizations was further confirmed by comparing neural responses to real and
synthetic virtual vocalizations recorded from awake marmoset auditory cortex. We 
found a strong agreement between the responses to token vocalizations and their
synthetic counterparts. 5) We demonstrated how these virtual vocalization stimuli
could be employed to precisely and quantitatively define the notion of
vocalization "selectivity" by using stimuli with parameter values both within and
outside the naturally occurring ranges. We also showed the potential of the
virtual vocalization stimuli in studying issues related to vocalization
categorizations by morphing between different call types and individual callers.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00818.2005 
PMID: 16207780  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

