

2623. IEEE Trans Neural Syst Rehabil Eng. 2005 Sep;13(3):263-71.

Wireless multichannel biopotential recording using an integrated FM telemetry
circuit.

Mohseni P(1), Najafi K, Eliades SJ, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Wireless Integrated MicroSystems (WIMS), Department of Electrical
Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122, USA.
pmohseni@umich.edu

This paper presents a four-channel telemetric microsystem featuring on-chip
alternating current amplification, direct current baseline stabilization, clock
generation, time-division multiplexing, and wireless frequency-modulation
transmission of microvolt- and millivolt-range input biopotentials in the very
high frequency band of 94-98 MHz over a distance of approximately 0.5 m. It
consists of a 4.84-mm2 integrated circuit, fabricated using a 1.5-microm
double-poly double-metal n-well standard complementary metal-oxide semiconductor 
process, interfaced with only three off-chip components on a custom-designed
printed-circuit board that measures 1.7 x 1.2 x 0.16 cm3, and weighs 1.1 g
including two miniature 1.5-V batteries. We characterize the microsystem
performance, operating in a truly wireless fashion in single-channel and
multichannel operation modes, via extensive benchtop and in vitro tests in saline
utilizing two different micromachined neural recording microelectrodes, while
dissipating approximately 2.2 mW from a 3-V power supply. Moreover, we
demonstrate successful wireless in vivo recording of spontaneous neural activity 
at 96.2 MHz from the auditory cortex of an awake marmoset monkey at several
transmission distances ranging from 10 to 50 cm with signal-to-noise ratios in
the range of 8.4-9.5 dB.

DOI: 10.1109/TNSRE.2005.853625 
PMID: 16200750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

