

2626. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Sep;22(6):1305-18.

Unilateral pallidotomy in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated
common marmosets exhibiting levodopa-induced dyskinesia.

Iravani MM(1), Costa S, Al-Bargouthy G, Jackson MJ, Zeng BY, Kuoppam√§ki M, Obeso 
JA, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences, 
King's College London, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Pallidotomy paradoxically reduces the intensity of levodopa-induced dyskinesia
without worsening motor symptoms. The reasons for this are not clear and no
experimental study has investigated this phenomenon. The objective of this
investigation was to evaluate the effects of unilateral pallidotomy on locomotor 
activity, motor disability and levodopa-induced dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated levodopa-primed common
marmosets. Animals were primed to exhibit dyskinesia by daily administration of
levodopa until stable dyskinesia was evoked by each dose. Locomotor activity,
motor disability and dyskinesia were assessed weekly at baseline and following an
acute levodopa challenge. Prior to pallidotomies, two distinct groups of animals 
emerged: poor responders to levodopa with mild dyskinesia (Group 1) and those
exhibiting a marked increase in motor activity and pronounced dyskinesia (Group
2). Electrolytic lesions were placed in the left internal segment of the globus
pallidus. Pallidotomy had no effect on basal or levodopa-induced motor activity
in either group but significantly improved basal motor disability in Group 2.
Following pallidotomy, the ability of levodopa to reduce motor disability was
significantly increased in both groups. Pallidotomy improved dyskinesia in both
Groups 1 and 2 but it was more effective in reducing dystonia compared with
chorea. The effect of pallidotomy on dyskinesia in Group 2 was transient, with
the intensity of involuntary movements reverting to presurgery levels 4 weeks
later. This study shows that in levodopa-primed, parkinsonian marmosets,
placement of discrete globus pallidus lesions can ameliorate levodopa-induced
dyskinesia but not akinesia. This model allows the evaluation of
pallidotomy-induced biochemical changes in dyskinetic primates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04308.x 
PMID: 16190886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

