

2627. J Med Chem. 2005 Oct 6;48(20):6430-41.

Adenosine kinase inhibitors. 5. Synthesis, enzyme inhibition, and analgesic
activity of diaryl-erythro-furanosyltubercidin analogues.

Boyer SH(1), Ugarkar BG, Solbach J, Kopcho J, Matelich MC, Ollis K, Gomez-Galeno 
JE, Mendonca R, Tsuchiya M, Nagahisa A, Nakane M, Wiesner JB, Erion MD.

Author information: 
(1)Metabasis Therapeutics Inc., 9390 Towne Centre Drive, San Diego, California
92121, USA. boyer@mbasis.com

Adenosine is an endogenous neuromodulator that when produced in the central and
the peripheral nervous systems has anticonvulsant, anti-inflammatory, and
analgesic properties. However, efforts to use adenosine receptor agonists are
plagued by dose-limiting cardiovascular side effects. As an alternative, we
explored the use of adenosine kinase inhibitors (AKIs) as potential antiseizure
agents and demonstrated an adenosine receptor mediated therapeutic effect in the 
absence of overt cardiovascular side effects. These activities were associated
with elevation of extracellular adenosine concentrations due to inhibition of AK 
in a site and event specific manner. Several tubercidin based AKIs, including the
ribo- and lyxo-furanosyltubercidin analogues as well as the newly discovered
erythro-furanosyltubercidin analogues, designed to prevent 5'-O-phosphorylation
and associated toxicities, were tested for their analgesic activity in the rat
formalin paw model. Described herein are the synthesis, enzyme inhibition
structure-activity relationships (SARs) of erythro-furanosyltubercidin analogues,
and SARs of analgesic activity of various classes of AKIs. Also reported is the
characterization of a lead AKI, 19d (GP3966), an orally bioavailable compound (F%
= 60% in dog) which exhibits broad-spectrum analgesic activities (ED50 < or = 4
mg/kg, per os) that are reversible with an adenosine receptor antagonist
(theophylline).

DOI: 10.1021/jm0503650 
PMID: 16190769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

