

2629. Neuroscience. 2005;136(1):231-40. Epub 2005 Sep 21.

Mossy cells and different subpopulations of pyramidal neurons are immunoreactive 
for cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in the hippocampal
formation of non-human primates and tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri).

Abrahám H(1), Czéh B, Fuchs E, Seress L.

Author information: 
(1)Central Electron Microscopic Laboratory, University of Pécs, Faculty of
Medicine, Szigeti u. 12, P.O. Box. 99, 7643 Pécs, Hungary.

Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide mRNA was discovered in the 
rat striatum following cocaine and amphetamine administration. Since both
psychostimulants elicit memory-related effects, localization of cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in the hippocampal formation may have
functional importance. Previous studies demonstrated different cellular
localizations of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide in humans 
and in rodents. Mossy cells were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated
transcript-positive in the human dentate gyrus, whereas granule cells contained
this peptide in the rat. In the present study, the localization of cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide was examined using immunohistochemistry 
in the hippocampal formation of the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta), the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) and in the tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri). In
these species principal neurons of the hippocampal formation were cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive. In both monkeys and tree shrews,
mossy cells of the hilus were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated
transcript-positive whereas granule cells of the dentate gyrus were cocaine- and 
amphetamine-regulated transcript-negative. The dense cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive axonal plexus of the
associational pathway outlined the inner one-third of the dentate molecular
layer. In the hippocampus of the tree shrew and marmoset monkey, a subset of CA3 
pyramidal cells were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated
transcript-immunoreactive. In the marmoset monkey, cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript labeling was found only in layer V pyramidal
cells of the entorhinal cortex, while in the rhesus monkey, pyramidal cells of
layers II and III were cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated
transcript-immunopositive. Our results show that cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript positive neurons in the dentate gyrus of
non-human primates are similar to that of the human. Furthermore, in the
hippocampal formation of the tree shrew similar cocaine- and
amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactive cell-types were observed as in
monkeys, supporting their evolutionary relationship with primates. Mossy cells
and granule cells are members of a mutual excitatory intrahippocampal circuitry, 
therefore cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript-immunoreactivity of these
neurons in primates and rodents suggests that psychostimulants cocaine and
amphetamine may induce memory-related effects at different points of the same
excitatory circuitry in the hippocampal formation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2005.07.030 
PMID: 16181735  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

