

2635. Am J Primatol. 2005 Sep;67(1):37-50.

Behavioral strategies and hormonal profiles of dominant and subordinate common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) females in wild monogamous groups.

Sousa MB(1), Albuquerque AC, Albuquerque Fda S, Araujo A, Yamamoto ME, Arruda Mde
F.

Author information: 
(1)Curso de Pós-graduação em Psicobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil. mdesousa@cb.ufrn.br

New insights into the mating systems of common marmosets suggest that they are
mainly monogamous, although polygyny and polyandry occasionally occur. Long-term 
monitoring of wild common marmosets has shown that some reports of polygynous
groups (i.e., groups that contain more than one reproducing female) in fact
indicate an unbalanced reproductive output associated with extragroup copulation.
In this study we describe the behavioral and hormonal profiles of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) females living in three wild monogamous groups (Q, PBf, and 
T), varying from five to 11 individuals, at Nísia Floresta field station, RN,
Brazil. The mating system of the groups was previously characterized in terms of 
affiliative, sexual, and mate-guarding behaviors. Behavioral data were collected 
once a week, and fecal samples were collected at least twice a week for 10-16
months, depending on the group. A preferential allogrooming relationship was
recorded between dominant males and females. Under field conditions the
reproductive inhibition of subordinate females appears to be more behavioral than
hormonal, since subordinate females of the three groups ovulated and two
conceived during the study. In these cases, the subordinate and dominant females 
reproduced 1 month apart, and infanticide (one case confirmed and one suspected) 
appeared to be part of the reproductive strategy of dominant females. Following
the infanticide, ovarian inhibition (group T) or emigration and return to the
natal group (group PBf) were observed. In the third group (Q) the subordinate
female showed hormonal profiles compatible with pregnancy, but no infants were
seen. These findings reflect the different alternatives that wild subordinate
common marmoset females use to reproduce.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.20168 
PMID: 16163713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

