

2636. J Med Chem. 2005 Sep 22;48(19):5921-31.

Development of human calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists.
1. Potent and selective small molecule CGRP antagonists.
1-[N2-[3,5-dibromo-N-[[4-(3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-oxoquinazolin-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]car
bonyl]-D-tyrosyl]-l-lysyl]-4-(4-pyridinyl)piperazine: the first CGRP antagonist
for clinical trials in acute migraine.

Rudolf K(1), Eberlein W, Engel W, Pieper H, Entzeroth M, Hallermayer G, Doods H.

Author information: 
(1)Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG, Research Division, Birkendorfer
Strasse 65, 88397 Biberach/RISS, Germany.
klaus.rudolf@bc.boehringer-ingelheim.com

Although the triptans have greatly improved the acute treatment of migraine
headache, there are yet many shortcomings. Therefore, new strategies for the
treatment of migraine are needed which offer advantages over current therapy,
e.g. triptans. Our novel approach was based on the hypothesis that the release of
calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) could play a causative role in migraine
headache. Thus we initiated a program aimed at the design and synthesis of small 
molecule CGRP receptor antagonists. High throughput screening led to the
identification of (R)-Tyr-(S)-Lys dipeptide-like compounds that showed weak but
unequivocal binding to the human CGRP receptor. Lead optimization afforded highly
potent CGRP antagonists, the prototype being compound 19 (BIBN4096). This
compound exhibiting a favorable biological profile was selected for initial
clinical trials. A proof of concept study indicated that intravenous application 
of 19 was effective in the treatment of acute migraine headache. This finding
strongly supports our initial working hypothesis that CGRP plays an important
role in the pathophysiology of migraine.

DOI: 10.1021/jm0490641 
PMID: 16161996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

