

2641. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2006 Jan;192(1):27-38.
Epub 2005 Aug 31.

Sensory-motor interactions modulate a primate vocal behavior: antiphonal calling 
in common marmosets.

Miller CT(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
ctmiller@bme.jhu.edu

A fundamental issue in neuroscience pertains to how different cortical systems
interact to generate behavior. One of the most direct ways to address this issue 
is to investigate how sensory information is encoded and used to produce a motor 
response. Antiphonal calling is a natural vocal behavior that involves
individuals producing their species-specific long distance vocalization in
response to hearing the same call and engages both the auditory and motor
systems, as well as the cognitive neural systems involved in decision making and 
categorization. Here we present results from a series of behavioral experiments
investigating the auditory-vocal interactions during antiphonal calling in the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We manipulated sensory input by placing
subjects in different social contexts and found that the auditory input had a
significant effect on call timing and propensity to call. Playback experiments
tested the significance of the timing of vocal production in antiphonal calling
and showed that a short latency between antiphonal calls was necessary to
maintain reciprocal vocal interactions. Overall, this study shows that
sensory-motor interactions can be experimentally induced and manipulated in a
natural primate vocal behavior. Antiphonal calling represents a promising model
system to examine these issues in non-human primates at both the behavioral and
neural levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-005-0043-z 
PMID: 16133500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

