

2642. Int J Androl. 1997 Oct;20(5):287-96.

CASA as an aid to selecting sperm suspensions for artificial insemination in
Callithrix jacchus.

Morrell JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The ability to use sperm motility parameters, obtained by computer-assisted sperm
motility analysis (CASA), as an aid to selecting sperm samples for artificial
insemination (AI) would have considerable benefits for commercial organizations
and for the captive breeding of endangered species. In this study the Hobson
sperm tracker (HST) was validated for use with spermatozoa from Callithrix
jacchus, the common marmoset, by comparing values for straight line velocity by
CASA with those obtained by direct measurement of sperm tracks. Using the
settings established during validation, ejaculated and epididymal spermatozoa
were analysed with the HST. The range of values for velocity parameters were used
to establish expected motility profiles for the two types of spermatozoa as
follows: for epididymal spermatozoa (concentration 2.2 - 85.8 x 10(6)
spermatozoa/mL) VCL 109.8-155.9, VSL 75.2-141.5, VAP 85.8-142.1, MAD 13.7-40.7,
ALH 3.8-7.8, BCF 1.4-4.2, LIN 40.5-91.1% and STR 70.1-97.1%; for ejaculated
spermatozoa (concentration 3.2-82.0 x 10(6) spermatozoa/mL) VCL 89.6-136.7, VSL
69.6-110.3, VAP 74.5-121.9, MAD 19.2-29.3, ALH 3.0-9.9, BCF 2.8-5.5., LIN
65.4-85.3% and STR 93.8-97.7%. Epididymal spermatozoa from males which were not
sexually active had significantly lower values for VCL, VSL and VAP, while values
for MAD were significantly higher than for spermatozoa from sexually active males
(p < 0.031). Sperm concentration affected motility parameters significantly.
Although motility parameters differed according to the batch of medium used, the 
differences were not statistically significant. Epididymal sperm samples had
significantly higher VCL, VSL and VAP but lower BCF and LIN than ejaculated sperm
samples of the same concentration diluted in the same batch of medium, while MAD,
ALH and STR were not different. Urine contamination significantly reduced VCL,
VSL and VAP (p < 0.008, < 0.016 and < 0.008, respectively, sample size = 7)
whereas MAD, ALH, BCF, LIN and STR were not affected. Therefore CASA could be
useful in screening ejaculates for use in Al to eliminate samples with unusual
motility patterns.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2605.1997.00072.x 
PMID: 16130273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

