

2643. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Oct 3;490(4):335-53.

Species differences in tachykinin receptor distribution: further evidence that
the substance P (NK1) receptor predominates in human brain.

Rigby M(1), O'Donnell R, Rupniak NM.

Author information: 
(1)In Vivo Neuroscience, Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories, Neuroscience 
Research Centre, Terlings Park, Harlow, Essex CM20 2QR, United Kingdom.
Michael_Rigby@Merck.com

Marked species differences in the distribution of central tachykinin receptors
are reported but uncertainty remains about the ability of available ligands to
detect NK2 and NK3 receptors in human brain. We compared the distribution of NK1,
NK2, and NK3 receptors in sections from rodent, primate, and human brain using
the 125I-labeled ligands substance P (SP) for the NK1 receptor, neurokinin A
(NKA) for the NK2 receptor, and neurokinin B (NKB) and eledoisin for NK3
receptors. Duration of exposure to autoradiographic film was from 7 days for
[125I]SP up to 90 days for the other ligands. High levels of specific [125I]SP
binding were seen throughout the brains of all species studied. Specific
[125I]NKA binding was detected in brains from neonatal rat, and to a lesser level
in adult rat, gerbil, and guinea pig; it was not detected in monkey or human
brain, but was present in circular muscle of human duodenum, confirming that this
ligand binds to human NK2 receptors under our experimental conditions. Specific
[125I]NKB and [125I]eledoisin binding was widespread in brain sections from rats,
gerbils, and guinea pigs, and very low levels were also detected in marmoset,
squirrel monkey, and rhesus monkey brain after prolonged (up to 90 days)
exposure. We failed to identify specific eledoisin binding in human brain, even
after prolonged exposures. These findings demonstrate that the NK1 receptor is
the predominant tachykinin receptor expressed in primate and human brain, but
that low levels of NK3 receptor are present in nonhuman, primate brain.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20664 
PMID: 16127708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

