

265. Exp Neurobiol. 2020 Aug 31;29(4):285-299. doi: 10.5607/en20025.

Synchrony of Spontaneous Burst Firing between Retinal Ganglion Cells Across
Species.

Ahn J(1), Phan HL(2), Cha S(1), Koo KI(2), Yoo Y(3), Goo YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Chungbuk National University School of Medicine,
Cheongju 28644, Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Ulsan, Ulsan 44610, Korea.
(3)Department of Electronics Engineering, Incheon National University, Incheon
22012, Korea.

Neurons communicate with other neurons in response to environmental changes.
Their goal is to transmit information to their targets reliably. A burst, which
consists of multiple spikes within a short time interval, plays an essential role
in enhancing the reliability of information transmission through synapses. In the
visual system, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), the output neurons of the retina,
show bursting activity and transmit retinal information to the lateral geniculate
neuron of the thalamus. In this study, to extend our interest to the population
level, the burstings of multiple RGCs were simultaneously recorded using a
multi-channel recording system. As the first step in network analysis, we focused
on investigating the pairwise burst correlation between two RGCs. Furthermore, to
assess if the population bursting is preserved across species, we compared the
synchronized bursting of RGCs between marmoset monkey (callithrix jacchus), one
species of the new world monkeys and mouse (C57BL/6J strain). First, monkey RGCs 
showed a larger number of spikes within a burst, while the inter-spike interval, 
burst duration, and inter-burst interval were smaller compared with mouse RGCs.
Monkey RGCs showed a strong burst synchronization between RGCs, whereas mouse
RGCs showed no correlated burst firing. Monkey RGC pairs showed significantly
higher burst synchrony and mutual information than mouse RGC pairs did.
Comprehensively, through this study, we emphasize that two species have a
different bursting activity of RGCs and different burst synchronization
suggesting two species have distinctive retinal processing.

DOI: 10.5607/en20025 
PMCID: PMC7492847
PMID: 32921641 

