

2652. Virus Res. 2005 Dec;114(1-2):154-7. Epub 2005 Jul 28.

Acute GB virus B infection of marmosets is accompanied by mutations in the NS5A
protein.

Kyuregyan KK(1), Poleschuk VF, Zamyatina NA, Isaeva OV, Michailov MI, Ross S,
Bukh J, Roggendorf M, Viazov S.

Author information: 
(1)Gamaleya Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Gamaleya 16, 123098
Moscow, Russia.

GBV-B, a member of the Flaviviridae family of viruses, is the virus most closely 
related to HCV, and GBV-B infection in tamarin monkeys might represent a valuable
surrogate animal model of HCV infection. In the current study, GBV-B was
successfully transmitted to two marmosets (Callithrix jaccus). The infection
resulted in viremia of 14- and 17-week duration, respectively, and was
accompanied by elevation of isocitrate dehydrogenase activity. These data confirm
that marmosets might represent an attractive model for GBV-B infection. The
sequence of GBV-B NS5A, which was previously reported to have one of the highest 
mutation rates during infection in tamarins, was determined for viruses recovered
from the inoculum and from marmoset blood samples obtained at weeks 1, 8, and 14 
post inoculation in one marmoset and at weeks 2, 8, and 17 post inoculation in
the other marmoset. In both animals, we detected four substitutions (R1945K,
K2052G, F2196L, and G2268E), in the virus recovered immediately before viral
clearance. Interestingly, two of these mutations (F2196L and G2268E) were
described recently for viruses recovered from persistently infected tamarins.
Appearance of these mutations presumably reflects a mechanism of immune escape
rather than adaptation of the virus to a new host.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2005.06.009 
PMID: 16054723  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

