

2654. Vet Radiol Ultrasound. 2005 May-Jun;46(3):217-24.

Radiographic anatomy of the thorax and abdomen of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Wagner WM(1), Kirberger RM.

Author information: 
(1)Diagnostic Imaging Section, Department of Companion Animal Clinical Studies,
Onderstepoort Veterinary Academic Hospital, University of Pretoria, Private Bag
X04, Onderstepoort, 0110, Republic of South Africa. wencke.wagner@up.ac.za

A standard radiographic procedure was developed for the thorax and abdomen in the
common marmoset. A description and reference values for the corresponding
radiographic anatomy are given. Radiographs were obtained from 17 anaesthetized
healthy mature marmosets ranging from 1.5 to 9 years and 328 to 506 g.
Left-to-right lateral recumbent and ventrodorsal whole-body radiographs made at
end inspiration are recommended. Images of the heart, lungs, liver, gastric axis,
and at least one kidney could be evaluated consistently. A generalized
interstitial/peribronchial pattern was normally present. The mean of the
vertebral heart size +/- SD on dorsoventral or ventrodorsal views was 9.42 (+/-
0.44), ranging from 8.8 to 10.6. Abdominal detail was generally poor. The
gastrointestinal structures could often only be identified because of their
luminal gas. The right liver lobes were prominent and extended caudally beyond
the costal arch. The pylorus was in a central position and the spleen could not
be distinguished. Additionally, pancreas, lymph nodes, urinary bladder, and
ureters were not identified. A statistically significant difference (P < or =
0.05) between female and male kidney length existed. This study emphasizes that
significant species differences exist, and simply applying canine or feline
radiographic interpretation will result in misinterpretation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1740-8261.2005.00044.x 
PMID: 16050279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

