

2655. Am J Pathol. 2005 Aug;167(2):455-63.

Pneumonitis and multi-organ system disease in common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) infected with the severe acute respiratory syndrome-associated
coronavirus.

Greenough TC(1), Carville A, Coderre J, Somasundaran M, Sullivan JL, Luzuriaga K,
Mansfield K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01605, USA. thomas.greenough@umassmed.edu

Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) is a significant emerging infectious
disease. Humans infected with the etiological agent, SARS-associated coronavirus 
(SARS-CoV), primarily present with pneumonitis but may also develop hepatic,
gastrointestinal, and renal pathology. We inoculated common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with the objective of developing a small nonhuman primate model of SARS.
Two groups of C. jacchus were inoculated intratracheally with cell culture
supernatant containing SARS-CoV. In a time course pathogenesis study, animals
were evaluated at 2, 4, and 7 days after infection for morphological changes and 
evidence of viral replication. All animals developed a multifocal mononuclear
cell interstitial pneumonitis, accompanied by multinucleated syncytial cells,
edema, and bronchiolitis in most animals. Viral antigen localized primarily to
infected alveolar macrophages and type-1 pneumocytes by immunohistochemistry.
Viral RNA was detected in all animals from pulmonary tissue extracts obtained at 
necropsy. Viral RNA was also detected in tracheobronchial lymph node and
myocardium, together with inflammatory changes, in some animals. Hepatic
inflammation was observed in most animals, predominantly as a multifocal
lymphocytic hepatitis accompanied by necrosis of individual hepatocytes. These
findings identify the common marmoset as a promising nonhuman primate to study
SARS-CoV pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)62989-6 
PMCID: PMC1603565
PMID: 16049331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

