

2656. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Jul;22(2):437-47.

S-cones do not contribute to the OFF-midget pathway in the retina of the
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Lee SC(1), Telkes I, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, The University of
Melbourne, Carlton VIC 3053, Australia.

It is well established that in primate retina both medium- and
long-wavelength-sensitive cone types provide input to the midget-parvocellular
pathway. The question, however, whether short-wavelength-sensitive (S or 'blue') 
cones provide input to the OFF-division of the midget-parvocellular pathway is
still controversial. In the present study, we investigated the connections of
nearly 400 S-cones with OFF-midget bipolar cells in central and peripheral retina
of a New World monkey, the marmoset. Horizontal sections or pieces of whole
retinae were double-labelled with an antiserum to S-cone opsin to identify
S-cones and antibodies to the cell adhesion molecule CD15 to identify OFF-midget 
bipolar cells. Peanut agglutinin coupled to a fluorescent tag was used to label
the cone pedicles of all cone types. Peanut agglutinin was also used to
distinguish S-cones from the other cone types. The sections were analysed with
deconvolution microscopy. We found that nearly all pedicles of medium- and
long-wavelength-sensitive cones are located opposite distinct dendritic clusters 
formed by OFF-midget bipolar cells. By contrast, the S-cone pedicles are not
located opposite dendritic clusters. Instead, S-cones make sparse contacts with
CD15-labelled processes. Some of these processes protruded from OFF-midget
bipolar clusters, whereas others could be traced to a diffuse bipolar cell type. 
Thus, in the marmoset retina the midget-parvocellular system does not carry a
blue-OFF signal.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04231.x 
PMID: 16045497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

