

266. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 Nov;131:110638. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110638. Epub
2020 Sep 8.

Inhibitory effect of simiao qingwen baidu decoction on epstein-barr virus EA, VCA
expression and DNA replication in vitro.

Yan Y(1), Yang X(1), Sun X(1), Zhang H(1), Liu L(2), Ran R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China.
(2)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China. Electronic address:
llling087@163.com.
(3)Pediatric Zone 5, First Affiliated Hospital of Henan University of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou, 450000, Henan, China. Electronic address:
ruiyruan@hotmail.com.

This article aims to investigate the role of Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction
(traditional Chinese medicine) in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced infectious
mononucleosis. Sprague Dawley rats were given Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction by
gavage, and the medicated serum was collected. EBV-latent infected human Burkitt 
lymphomas Raji and EBV-transformed marmosets B lymphoblast cell B95-8 were
treated with medicated serum. CCK8 assay and flow cytometry were performed to
detect cell proliferation and apoptosis. Indirect immunofluorescence assay was
performed to analyze EA or VCA positive expression. The copy-number of EBV-DNA
and the gene expression were detected by quantitative PCR or quantitative
real-time PCR. We found that the medicated serum inhibited proliferation of Raji 
and B95-8 cells, especially 10 %-medicated serum. The 10 %-medicated serum
significantly suppressed EA expression in Raji cells and VCA expression in B95-8 
cells. The expression of BZLF1, BRLF1, BMLF1 and EBNA-1 in Raji cells was
significantly inhibited by 10 %-medicated serum. 10 %-medicated serum caused a
decrease in the copy-number of EBV-DNA in Raji cells. In conclusion, our data
imply that Simiao Qingwen Baidu Decoction represses the expression of EA and VCA,
and EBV-DNA replication. Thus, our work suggests that Simiao Qingwen Baidu
Decoction may play a vital role in anti-EBV.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.110638 
PMID: 32916537  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

