

2660. J Hum Evol. 2005 Sep;49(3):370-89.

Variation in maxillary sinus anatomy among platyrrhine monkeys.

Nishimura TD(1), Takai M, Tsubamoto T, Egi N, Shigehara N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Physical Anthropology, Department of Zoology, Graduate School of
Science, Kyoto University, Kitashirakawa Oiwake-cho, Sakyo, Kyoto 606-8502,
Japan. nishimur@anthro.zool.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Variations in the maxillary sinus anatomy of extant and fossil catarrhine
primates have been extensively examined using computed tomography (CT), and have 
potential utility for phylogenetic analyses. This approach has also been used to 
demonstrate its anatomical variation in eight of the 16 extant genera of
platyrrhines and the absence of the sinus in Saimiri and Cacajao. We used this
approach to evaluate the three-dimensional anatomy of the maxillary sinus in all 
extant platyrrhine genera, and here argue the phylogenic implications of this
variation. This study confirms, for the most part, previous CT studies and
augments them with the six genera not studied previously: Ateles, Lagothrix,
Callithrix, Cebuella, Pithecia and Chiropotes. The entire maxilla is pneumatized 
by the sinus in the atelines, Cebus, and Callicebus, whereas the sinus
pneumatizes only the medial part of the maxilla in the callitrichines and Aotus. 
Pithecia has a unique conformation in which the maxillary sinus and the expanded 
inferior meatus pneumatize the posteromedial and anterolateral parts of the
entire maxilla, respectively. Chiropotes has no sinus, and the inferior meatus
possibly expands into the area between the middle meatus and medial surface of
the maxilla to disturb sinus formation, as in the case of its close relative
Cacajao. Finally, we argue that the sinus that pneumatizes the entire maxilla is 
a primitive feature in extant platyrrhines and was probably shared by the last
common ancestor of the anthropoids.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2005.05.001 
PMID: 16009397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

