

2666. Environ Mol Mutagen. 2005 Dec;46(4):253-9.

Micronucleated erythrocyte frequencies in old and new world primates: measurement
of micronucleated erythrocyte frequencies in peripheral blood of Callithrix
jacchus as a model for evaluating genotoxicity in primates.

Zúñiga-González GM(1), Gómez-Meda BC, Zamora-Perez AL, Ramos-Ibarra ML,
Batista-González CM, Lemus-Varela ML, Rodríguez-Avila JL, Gallegos-Arreola MP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio de Mutagénesis, Centro de Investigación Biomédica de Occidente,
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Guadalajara, Jalisco, México.

Nonhuman primates are of particular relevance in evaluating the potential
toxicity of drugs and environmental agents. We have used previously published
information and data from the present study to establish a relationship for New
World (NW) and Old World (OW) primates on the basis of the frequency of
spontaneous micronucleated erythrocytes (MNEs) observed in peripheral blood. Data
on spontaneous MNEs in peripheral blood from 15 species of primates, including
humans, indicate that NW primates have significantly (P < 0.01) higher MNE
frequencies (group mean, 9.5 +/- 7.3 MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes; range,
0.7-20.5/10,000 erythrocytes) than OW primates (group mean, 1.0 +/- 0.9
MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes; range, 0.0-2.6 MNEs/10,000 erythrocytes). Humans are
believed to have developed in the OW, and human MNE frequencies were similar to
those described for OW primate species. We selected the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a NW primate, to determine whether therapeutic pediatric
doses of Metotrexate (MTX; 2.5 mg/kg), Cyclophosphamide (CP; 5 mg/kg),
Cytosine-arabinoside (Ara-C; 3 mg/kg), or 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU; 10 mg/kg),
administered daily for two consecutive days, increase the frequency of
micronuclei. Micronucleated polychromatic erythrocyte frequencies were increased 
significantly in groups receiving MTX, CP and Ara-C, while MNE frequencies were
increased by the Ara-C treatment. The results of this study indicate that NW
primates have higher spontaneous MNE frequencies than OW primates, and because of
this, NW primates like the common marmoset, may be suitable for evaluating the
genotoxicity of chemical agents.

DOI: 10.1002/em.20154 
PMID: 15971258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

