

2667. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2005 Sep;314(3):1274-89. Epub 2005 Jun 10.

Lecozotan (SRA-333): a selective serotonin 1A receptor antagonist that enhances
the stimulated release of glutamate and acetylcholine in the hippocampus and
possesses cognitive-enhancing properties.

Schechter LE(1), Smith DL, Rosenzweig-Lipson S, Sukoff SJ, Dawson LA, Marquis K, 
Jones D, Piesla M, Andree T, Nawoschik S, Harder JA, Womack MD, Buccafusco J,
Terry AV, Hoebel B, Rada P, Kelly M, Abou-Gharbia M, Barrett JE, Childers W.

Author information: 
(1)Wyeth, Neuroscience Discovery Research, Princeton, NJ 08543, USA.
schechl@wyeth.com

Recent data has suggested that the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A) receptor is
involved in cognitive processing. A novel 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist,
4-cyano-N-{2R-[4-(2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]-dioxin-5-yl)-piperazin-1-yl]-propyl}-N-py
ridin-2-yl-benzamide HCl (lecozotan), which has been characterized in multiple in
vitro and in vivo pharmacological assays as a drug to treat cognitive
dysfunction, is reported. In vitro binding and intrinsic activity determinations 
demonstrated that lecozotan is a potent and selective 5-HT(1A) receptor
antagonist. Using in vivo microdialysis, lecozotan (0.3 mg/kg s.c.) antagonized
the decrease in hippocampal extracellular 5-HT induced by a challenge dose (0.3
mg/kg s.c.) of 8-hydroxy-2-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and had no effects
alone at doses 10-fold higher. Lecozotan significantly potentiated the potassium 
chloride-stimulated release of glutamate and acetylcholine in the dentate gyrus
of the hippocampus. Chronic administration of lecozotan did not induce 5-HT(1A)
receptor tolerance or desensitization in a behavioral model indicative of
5-HT(1A) receptor function. In drug discrimination studies, lecozotan (0.01-1
mg/kg i.m.) did not substitute for 8-OH-DPAT and produced a dose-related blockade
of the 5-HT(1A) agonist discriminative stimulus cue. In aged rhesus monkeys,
lecozotan produced a significant improvement in task performance efficiency at an
optimal dose (1 mg/kg p.o.). Learning deficits induced by the glutamatergic
antagonist MK-801
[(-)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate]
(assessed by perceptually complex and visual spatial discrimination) and by
specific cholinergic lesions of the hippocampus (assessed by visual spatial
discrimination) were reversed by lecozotan (2 mg/kg i.m.) in marmosets. The
heterosynaptic nature of the effects of lecozotan imbues this compound with a
novel mechanism of action directed at the biochemical pathologies underlying
cognitive loss in Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.105.086363 
PMID: 15951399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

