

2668. J Reprod Immunol. 2005 Jun;66(1):53-67.

Circulating auto-antibodies against the zona pellucida and thyroid microsomal
antigen in women with premature ovarian failure.

Kelkar RL(1), Meherji PK, Kadam SS, Gupta SK, Nandedkar TD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, National Institute for Research in Reproductive
Health, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.

Premature ovarian failure (POF) is a disorder of multicausal etiology leading to 
infertility in women. Development of ovarian auto-antibodies is a causative
factor in most POF cases, but no consensus on the ovarian antigenic determinants 
has been reached till date. In the present study, sera from 15 POF cases, seven
normally cycling women and eight menopausal women were studied by
immunohistochemistry (IHC) for the presence of anti-ovarian antibodies. 10 of the
15 POF sera (66.6%) presented with anti-ovarian antibodies (Ao). Of these, two
demonstrated antibodies to the zona pellucida (ZP) as well as strong
immunoreactivity to granulosa cells (Azg), while the remaining eight exhibited
anti-ZP antibodies with negligible staining in granulosa cells (Az). The
antibodies showed cross-reactivity with ZP from various species such as human,
sheep, marmoset, pig and mouse. Among various murine tissues, the antibodies
cross-reacted only with thyroid and not with uterus, spleen, kidney, liver,
adrenal, pancreas and pituitary. Five of the eight Az individuals presented with 
significant titres of anti-thyroid antibodies (Azt). In the control group, one
menopausal control presented with reactivity to both ZP and GC, the autoimmunity 
possibly being a consequence of surgical trauma; while one normally cycling woman
tested positive for anti-thyroid antibodies. The IHC results were confirmed by
ELISA using heat-solubilized isolated ZP (SIZP) as the antigen. Out of seven Ao
samples assessed by ELISA, five reacted with SIZP. Preincubation of these five
samples with varying concentrations of SIZP demonstrated a dose-dependent
decrease in reactivity in ELISA and abolished staining in IHC, confirming the
specificity of auto-antibodies to ZP in the POF group. Our results thus suggest
that ZP is an important ovarian antigen in autoimmune POF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jri.2005.02.003 
PMID: 15949562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

