

2669. Cereb Cortex. 2006 Mar;16(3):405-14. Epub 2005 Jun 8.

Hierarchical development of the primate visual cortex, as revealed by
neurofilament immunoreactivity: early maturation of the middle temporal area
(MT).

Bourne JA(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Centre for Brain and Behaviour, Monash
University, Melbourne, VIC 3800, Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

It has been suggested that the development of the cerebral cortex reflects its
hierarchical organization, with the primary sensory areas being the first to
reach structural and functional maturity, and higher-order association areas
being the last. In the present study, we labelled the cortex of New World
marmoset monkeys of late fetal and early postnatal ages with an antibody to
non-phosphorylated neurofilament, a marker of structural maturation of a subset
of pyramidal cells. Supporting the concept of hierarchical maturation, we found
that at birth labelled cells were found in the primary visual, auditory and
somatosensory areas, but not in most other cortical fields. The exception was
visual area MT, which revealed an infragranular pattern of labelling comparable
to the one observed in the primary areas, as well as some supragranular staining.
In MT, an adult-like pattern of labelled cells, including both supragranular and 
infragranular layer neurons, emerged within the first postnatal month. In
comparison, the development of other extrastriate areas was delayed, with the
first signs of neurofilament staining not present until the third week. The
present results support the concept of MT as another primary visual area, an idea
previously advanced on the basis of functional and anatomical evidence.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhi119 
PMID: 15944371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

