

2673. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2005 Jun;38(6):915-24. Epub 2005 Jun 1.

Density, proportion, and dendritic coverage of retinal ganglion cells of the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Gomes FL(1), Silveira LC, Saito CA, Yamada ES.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiologia, Universidade Federal do Pará, Belém, PA, Brasil.

We performed a quantitative analysis of M and P cell mosaics of the
common-marmoset retina. Ganglion cells were labeled retrogradely from optic nerve
deposits of Biocytin. The labeling was visualized using horseradish peroxidase
(HRP) histochemistry and 3-3'diaminobenzidine as chromogen. M and P cells were
morphologically similar to those found in Old- and New-World primates.
Measurements were performed on well-stained cells from 4 retinas of different
animals. We analyzed separate mosaics for inner and outer M and P cells at
increasing distances from the fovea (2.5-9 mm of eccentricity) to estimate cell
density, proportion, and dendritic coverage. M cell density decreased towards the
retinal periphery in all quadrants. M cell density was higher in the nasal
quadrant than in other retinal regions at similar eccentricities, reaching about 
740 cells/mm(2) at 2.5 mm of temporal eccentricity, and representing 8-14% of all
ganglion cells. P cell density increased from peripheral to more central regions,
reaching about 5540 cells/mm(2) at 2.5 mm of temporal eccentricity. P cells
represented a smaller proportion of all ganglion cells in the nasal quadrant than
in other quadrants, and their numbers increased towards central retinal regions. 
The M cell coverage factor ranged from 5 to 12 and the P cell coverage factor
ranged from 1 to 3 in the nasal quadrant and from 5 to 12 in the other quadrants.
These results show that central and peripheral retinal regions differ in terms of
cell class proportions and dendritic coverage, and their properties do not result
from simply scaling down cell density. Therefore, differences in functional
properties between central and peripheral vision should take these distinct
regional retinal characteristics into account.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2005000600014 
PMID: 15933786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

