

2674. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Jul 15;81(2):190-8.

Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 activation in a primate model of multiple
sclerosis.

Kauppinen TM(1), Suh SW, Genain CP, Swanson RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California at San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94121, USA.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an immune-mediated disabling neurological disorder
involving inflammation, demyelination, axonal damage, and neurodegeneration.
Poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase-1 (PARP-1), a nuclear enzyme linked to DNA repair, has
been shown to regulate the cellular inflammatory response through interactions
with nuclear factor-kappaB. Extensive PARP-1 activation can, by separate
mechanisms, also cause cell death. PARP-1 activation in brain occurs in several
settings associated with oxidative stress and DNA damage, and PARP-1 inhibition
has been shown to attenuate inflammation and improve neuronal survival in these
settings. Here we studied the pattern of PARP-1 activation in a nonhuman primate 
model of MS, marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis (EAE). Characteristic of this model is relapsing and remitting 
focal demyelination typical of human MS. Immunostaining for poly(ADP-ribose), the
enzymatic product of PARP-1, showed PARP-1 activation specifically in plaque
areas of EAE brains. Robust immunostaining was found in astrocytes surrounding
demyelinated EAE plaques and in scattered nearby microglia, oligodendrocytes, and
neurons. The immunostaining also suggested PARP-1 activation in occasional
endothelial cells surrounded by microglia or infiltrating peripheral blood cells.
Given the importance of PARP-1 in both inflammation and cell death processes,
these findings suggest that PARP-1 activation may be a significant factor in the 
pathogenesis of MS.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.20525 
PMID: 15931673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

