

2675. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 2005 Mar;75(2):126-32.

Extra-hepatic vitamin A concentrations in captive Rhesus (Macaca mulatta) and
Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys fed excess vitamin A.

Mills JP(1), Penniston KL, Tanumihardjo SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
WI 53706, USA.

Recent work examining vitamin A (VA) status of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta)
used as models for human biomedical research has revealed subtoxic hepatic VA
concentrations. Livers of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), another
experimental animal, were also high in VA as was serum retinyl ester
concentration. Both species consumed common research diets that provided up to
four times the amount of VA (retinyl acetate) as currently recommended by the
National Research Council. To further define the effects of chronically high
dietary VA as found in many human subpopulations, we analyzed lung and kidney
tissues from subtoxic rhesus and marmoset monkeys (n = 10 each) for retinol and
retinyl esters. Marmoset kidneys contained 0.88 +/- 0.66 micromol VA/g and was
nearly the same as hepatic VA at 1.40 +/- 0.44 micromol/g (p = 0.143). In
contrast, rhesus kidney VA concentrations were 0.0100 +/- 0.0032 micromol/g, even
though liver reserves were 18.8 +/- 6.4 micromol VA/g (p < 0.0001). Lung tissue
VA concentrations, 0.0022 +/- 0.0012 and 0.0061 +/- 0.0025 micromol/g for
marmosets and rhesus, respectively, were lower as compared with kidney (p <
0.011). Kidney and lung VA in monkeys with adequate, but not excessive, VA stores
have not been determined; hence, interpretation of these findings is limited to
tissue retinol and retinyl ester profiles and extrapolation from other species
rather than direct comparison to "normal" values.

DOI: 10.1024/0300-9831.75.2.126 
PMID: 15929633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

