

2676. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Jul 25;488(2):113-28.

Localization of glycine receptor alpha subunits on bipolar and amacrine cells in 
primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Haverkamp S, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)The National Vision Research Institute of Australia, Carlton, Victoria 3053,
Australia.

The major inhibitory neurotransmitter glycine is used by about half of the
amacrine cells in the retina. Amacrine cells provide synaptic output to bipolar, 
ganglion, and other amacrine cells. The present study investigated whether
different bipolar and amacrine cell types in the primate retina differ with
respect to the expression of glycine receptor (GlyR) subtypes. Antibodies
specific for the alpha1, alpha2, and alpha3 subunits of the GlyR were combined
with immunohistochemical markers for bipolar and amacrine cells and applied to
vertical sections of macaque (Macaca fascicularis) and marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) retinae. For all subunits, punctate immunoreactivity was expressed in
the inner plexiform layer. The GlyRalpha2 immunoreactive (IR) puncta occur at the
highest density, followed by GlyR(alpha)3 and GlyR(alpha)1 IR puncta.
Postembedding electron microscopy showed the postsynaptic location of all
subunits. Double immunofluorescence demonstrated that the three alpha subunits
are clustered at different postsynaptic sites. Two OFF cone bipolar cell types
(flat midget and diffuse bipolar DB3), are predominantly associated with the
alpha1 subunit. Two ON bipolar cell types, the DB6 and the rod bipolar cell, are 
predominantly associated with the alpha2 subunit. The glycinergic AII amacrine
cell is presynaptic to the alpha1 subunit in the OFF-sublamina, and postsynaptic 
to the alpha2 subunit in the ON-sublamina. Another putative glycinergic cell, the
vesicular glutamate transporter 3 cell, is predominantly presynaptic to the
alpha2 subunit. The dopaminergic amacrine cell expresses the alpha3 subunit at a 
low density.

(c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20555 
PMID: 15924342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

