

2677. Haematologica. 2005 May;90(5):625-34.

Anti-Gal-mediated targeting of human B lymphoma cells to antigen-presenting
cells: a potential method for immunotherapy using autologous tumor cells.

Manches O(1), Plumas J, Lui G, Chaperot L, Molens JP, Sotto JJ, Bensa JC, Galili 
U.

Author information: 
(1)Research and Development Laboratory, EFS Rh√¥ne-Alpes, Grenoble, EA 2021,
France.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The residual tumor cells remaining after completion of
standard chemotherapy and radiation treatment in B lymphoma patients, may be
eradicated by active immunotherapy that stimulates tumor-specific T lymphocytes. 
Irradiated autologous lymphoma cells expressing tumor-associated antigens (TAA)
may serve as a potential tumor vaccine, provided that they are effectively
targeted to the antigen-presenting cells (APC). We propose exploiting the natural
anti-Gal antibody in order to target vaccinating tumor cells to APC. Anti-Gal
constitutes 1% of IgG in human serum and interacts specifically with the
alpha-gal epitope (Galalpha1-3Galphalbeta1-4GlcNAc-R).
DESIGN AND METHODS: Alpha-gal epitopes were synthesized in vitro on the membrane 
of primary lymphoma cells by using the recombinant glycosylation enzyme
alpha1,3galactosyltransferase (alpha1,3GT). Processed tumor cells were opsonized 
by purified anti-Gal antibodies and studied for uptake (phagocytosis) by APC
including monocyte-derived macrophages and dendritic cells. Cross-presentation of
tumor antigens after phagocytosis of processed MHC-I negative lymphoma cells was 
measured by activation of a tumor-specific CD8+ T-cell line.
RESULTS: We demonstrate synthesis of alpha-gal epitopes on freshly isolated B
lymphoma cells of various types following the use of the recombinant enzyme
alpha1,3GT. The subsequent binding of anti-Gal to the de novo synthesized
alphagal epitopes opsonizes these tumor cells for effective uptake by macrophages
and dendritic cells, through phagocytosis mediated by FcgammaR1 (CD64). Moreover,
anti-Gal-mediated phagocytosis resulted in cross-presentation of TAA by dendritic
cells.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that immunization with
irradiated autologous lymphoma cells processed to express alpha-gal epitopes will
result in anti-Gal-mediated, in vivo targeting of the autologous tumor vaccine to
APC.


PMID: 15921377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

