

2678. Curr Biol. 2005 May 24;15(10):974-9.

Small nuclear RNAs encoded by Herpesvirus saimiri upregulate the expression of
genes linked to T cell activation in virally transformed T cells.

Cook HL(1), Lytle JR, Mischo HE, Li MJ, Rossi JJ, Silva DP, Desrosiers RC, Steitz
JA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Molecular Biophysics and
Biochemistry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.

Seven small nuclear RNAs of the Sm class are encoded by Herpesvirus saimiri
(HVS), a gamma Herpesvirus that causes aggressive T cell leukemias and lymphomas 
in New World primates and efficiently transforms T cells in vitro. The
Herpesvirus saimiri U RNAs (HSURs) are the most abundant viral transcripts in
HVS-transformed, latently infected T cells but are not required for viral
replication or transformation in vitro. We have compared marmoset T cells
transformed with wild-type or a mutant HVS lacking the most highly conserved
HSURs, HSURs 1 and 2. Microarray and Northern analyses reveal that HSUR 1 and 2
expression correlates with significant increases in a small number of host mRNAs,
including the T cell-receptor beta and gamma chains, the T cell and natural
killer (NK) cell-surface receptors CD52 and DAP10, and intracellular
proteins--SKAP55, granulysin, and NKG7--linked to T cell and NK cell activation. 
Upregulation of three of these transcripts was rescued after transduction of
deletion-mutant-HVS-transformed cells with a lentiviral vector carrying HSURs 1
and 2. These changes indicate an unexpected role for the HSURs in regulating a
remarkably defined and physiologically relevant set of host targets involved in
the activation of virally transformed T cells during latency.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2005.04.034 
PMID: 15916956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

