

268. Curr Biol. 2020 Nov 2;30(21):4276-4283.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.08.019. Epub
2020 Sep 3.

Theta Synchronization of Phonatory and Articulatory Systems in Marmoset Monkey
Vocal Production.

Risueno-Segovia C(1), Hage SR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Social Communication, Department of Otolaryngology, Head and
Neck Surgery, Hearing Research Centre, University of Tübingen Medical Center,
Elfriede-Aulhorn-Str. 5, 72076 Tübingen, Germany; Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076
Tübingen, Germany; Graduate School of Neural & Behavioural Sciences -
International Max Planck Research School, University of Tübingen, Österberg-Str. 
3, 72074 Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Neurobiology of Social Communication, Department of Otolaryngology, Head and
Neck Surgery, Hearing Research Centre, University of Tübingen Medical Center,
Elfriede-Aulhorn-Str. 5, 72076 Tübingen, Germany; Werner Reichardt Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076
Tübingen, Germany. Electronic address: steffen.hage@uni-tuebingen.de.

Human speech shares a 3-8-Hz theta rhythm across all languages [1-3]. According
to the frame/content theory of speech evolution, this rhythm corresponds to
syllabic rates derived from natural mandibular-associated oscillations [4]. The
underlying pattern originates from oscillatory movements of articulatory muscles 
[4, 5] tightly linked to periodic vocal fold vibrations [4, 6, 7]. Such
phono-articulatory rhythms have been proposed as one of the crucial
preadaptations for human speech evolution [3, 8, 9]. However, the evolutionary
link in phono-articulatory rhythmicity between vertebrate vocalization and human 
speech remains unclear. From the phonatory perspective, theta oscillations might 
be phylogenetically preserved throughout all vertebrate clades [10-12]. From the 
articulatory perspective, theta oscillations are present in non-vocal lip
smacking [1, 13, 14], teeth chattering [15], vocal lip smacking [16], and clicks 
and faux-speech [17] in non-human primates, potential evolutionary precursors for
speech rhythmicity [1, 13]. Notably, a universal phono-articulatory rhythmicity
similar to that in human speech is considered to be absent in non-human primate
vocalizations, typically produced with sound modulations lacking concomitant
articulatory movements [1, 9, 18]. Here, we challenge this view by investigating 
the coupling of phonatory and articulatory systems in marmoset vocalizations.
Using quantitative measures of acoustic call structure, e.g., amplitude envelope,
and call-associated articulatory movements, i.e., inter-lip distance, we show
that marmosets display speech-like bi-motor rhythmicity. These oscillations are
synchronized and phase locked at theta rhythms. Our findings suggest that
oscillatory rhythms underlying speech production evolved early in the primate
lineage, identifying marmosets as a suitable animal model to decipher the
evolutionary and neural basis of coupled phono-articulatory movements.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.08.019 
PMID: 32888481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

