

2691. Behav Brain Res. 2005 May 28;160(2):267-76. Epub 2005 Jan 11.

Postural changes after lesions of the substantia nigra pars reticulata in
hemiparkinsonian monkeys.

Henderson JM(1), Stanic D, Tomas D, Patch J, Horne MK, Bourke D, Finkelstein DI.

Author information: 
(1)Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, University of New South Wales,
Sydney, Australia. jasmine@med.usyd.edu.au

Current neurosurgical strategies target overactive brain regions including the
subthalamic nucleus, globus pallidus and thalamus to control various symptoms of 
Parkinson's disease. Subthalamotomy improves akinesia and can induce postural
deficits in both parkinsonian humans and animals, pallidotomy improves limb
dyskinesia and more variably, distal bradykinesia whilst thalamotomy improves
tremor. Because the SNr also becomes overactive in PD and there are few surgical 
studies in parkinsonian primates, we therefore evaluated the effects of lesioning
the SNr in hemiparkinsonian marmosets to establish the effects on symptomatology.
Nine monkeys received unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions. Seven weeks 
later, four received kainic acid lesions of the SNr. Behavioural tests were
performed prior to 6-OHDA surgery and then fortnightly for 14 weeks. Unilateral
6-OHDA lesions induced ipsilateral postural bias, ipsilateral rotation after
amphetamine injection and bradykinesia. Whilst, SNr lesions significantly altered
the direction of head position and amphetamine-induced rotation relative to
6-OHDA lesions, there was no improvement in 6-OHDA-induced reaching deficits or
sensorimotor neglect. Unbiased quantitation of the nigral lesions showed on
average 88% loss of dopaminergic neurons after 6-OHDA lesions and 77% loss of
non-dopaminergic neurons after SNr lesions. Our results demonstrate that the SNr 
is important in body orientation changes in parkinsonism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2004.12.008 
PMID: 15863223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

