

2696. J Neurosci Methods. 2005 May 15;144(1):53-61.

Spectral representation--analyzing single-unit activity in extracellularly
recorded neuronal data without spike sorting.

Luczak A(1), Narayanan NS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey, 197 University Avenue, Newark, NJ 07102, USA.
Luczak@cs.yale.edu

One step in the conventional analysis of extracellularly recorded neuronal data
is spike sorting, which separates electrical signal into action potentials from
different neurons. Because spike sorting involves human judgment, it can be
subjective and time intensive, particularly for large sets of neurons. Here we
propose a simple, automated way to construct alternative representations of
neuronal activity, called spectral representation (SR). In this approach,
neuronal spikes are mapped to a discrete space of spike waveform features and
time. Spectral representation enables us to find single-unit stimulus-related
changes in neuronal activity without spike sorting. We tested the ability of this
method to predict stimuli using both simulated data and experimental data from an
auditory mapping study in anesthetized marmoset monkeys. We find that our
approach produces more accurate classification of stimuli than spike-sorted data 
for both simulated and experimental conditions. Furthermore, this method lends
itself to automated analysis of extracellularly recorded neuronal ensembles.
Additionally, we suggest ways in which these representations can be readily
extended to assist in spike sorting and the evaluation of single-neuron
peri-stimulus time histograms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2004.10.009 
PMID: 15848239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

