

2698. Eur J Neurosci. 2005 Mar;21(6):1521-35.

Postnatal ontogeny of hippocampal expression of the mineralocorticoid and
glucocorticoid receptors in the common marmoset monkey.

Pryce CR(1), Feldon J, Fuchs E, Knuesel I, Oertle T, Sengstag C, Spengler M,
Weber E, Weston A, Jongen-RÃ©lo A.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology,
Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland. pryce@behav.biol.ethz.ch

The mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) are nuclear 
transcription factors that mediate many of the basal and stress functions and
effects of the corticosteroid hormones, including those related to brain
development. Despite this, relatively little is known about the postnatal
ontogeny of MR and GR gene and protein expression in the central nervous system, 
and this is particularly true of the primates, including humans. Here we describe
the postnatal ontogeny of central MR and GR gene and protein expression in the
common marmoset monkey. By developing marmoset-specific riboprobes and using in
situ hybridization, it was demonstrated that MR mRNA expression in the dentate
gyrus and Ammon's horn was significantly greater in marmoset infants (aged 4-6
weeks) than in neonates (1-2 days), juveniles (4-5 months) and adults (3-6
years), with expression in the latter three ontogenetic stages being broadly
similar. In the same subjects and ontogenetic stages, GR mRNA expression was
developmentally consistent in the marmoset dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn, as
well as in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Qualitative
immunohistochemical comparison of infants and adults demonstrated that MR protein
expression in the hippocampus was, as for mRNA, also greater in infants than
adults, and that hippocampal GR protein was, as for mRNA, also similar in infants
and adults. The increase in MR mRNA expression between the stages of neonate and 
infant co-occurred with a reduction in basal plasma ACTH and cortisol titres. The
ontogenetic profiles of MR and GR gene expression in the marmoset monkey are
therefore fundamentally different from those described for the rat and the mouse.
This evidence for the postnatal ontogeny of central corticosteroid nuclear
receptor expression in a primate is important for understanding both the
developmental stage-specific significance of stress exposure and its potential
long-term effects on health and disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2005.04003.x 
PMID: 15845080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

