

2699. J Comp Neurol. 2005 May 30;486(2):179-96.

Postnatal development of alkaline phosphatase activity correlates with the
maturation of neurotransmission in the cerebral cortex.

Fonta C(1), Negyessy L, Renaud L, Barone P.

Author information: 
(1)Cerveau et Cognition, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique-Université 
Paul Sabatier UMR5549, Faculté de Médecine Rangueil, 31062 Toulouse Cedex,
France. caroline.fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

We have shown previously that the tissue nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) 
is selectively expressed in the synaptic cleft of sensory cortical areas in adult
mammals and, by using sensory deprivation, that TNAP activity depends on
thalamocortical activity. We further analyzed this structural functional
relationship by comparing the developmental pattern of TNAP activity to the
maturation of the thalamocortical afferents in the primate brain (Callithrix
jacchus). Cortical expression of alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity reflects the 
sequential maturation of the modality-specific sensory areas. Within the visual
cortex, the regional and laminar distribution of AP correlates with the
differential maturation of the magno- and parvocellular streams. AP activity,
which is transiently expressed in the white matter, exhibits a complementary
distributional pattern with myelin staining. Ultrastructural analysis revealed
that AP activity is localized exclusively to the myelin-free axonal segments,
including the node of Ranvier. It was also found that AP activity is gradually
expressed in parallel with the maturation of synaptic contacts in the neuropile. 
These data suggest the involvement of AP, in addition to neurotransmitter
synthesis previously suggested in the adult, in synaptic stabilization and in
myelin pattern formation and put forward a role of AP in cortical plasticity and 
brain disorders.

Copyright 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20524 
PMID: 15844208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

