

27. Biochem Pharmacol. 2022 Mar;197:114887. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2021.114887. Epub 2021
Dec 27.

Drug-oxidizing and conjugating non-cytochrome P450 (non-P450) enzymes in
cynomolgus monkeys and common marmosets as preclinical models for humans.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Kagoshima 890-8580, Japan.
(2)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(3)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic
address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Many drug oxidations and conjugations are mediated by a variety of cytochromes
P450 (P450) and non-P450 enzymes in humans and non-human primates. These non-P450
enzymes include aldehyde oxidases (AOX), carboxylesterases (CES),
flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO), glutathione S-transferases (GST),
arylamine N-acetyltransferases (NAT),sulfotransferases (SULT), and uridine
5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT) and their substrates include both
endobiotics and xenobiotics. Cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis, an
Old-World monkey) are widely used in preclinical studies because of their genetic
and physiological similarities to humans. However, many reports have indicated
the usefulness of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus, a New World monkey) as an
alternative non-human primate model. Although knowledge of the drug-metabolizing 
properties of non-P450 enzymes in non-human primates is relatively limited, new
research has started to provide an insight into the molecular characteristics of 
these enzymes in cynomolgus macaques and common marmosets. This mini-review
provides collective information on the isoforms of non-P450 enzymes AOX, CES,
FMO, GST, NAT, SULT, and UGT and their enzymatic profiles in cynomolgus macaques 
and common marmosets. In general, these non-P450 cynomolgus macaque and marmoset 
enzymes have high sequence identities and similar substrate recognitions to their
human counterparts. However, these enzymes also exhibit some limited differences 
in function between species, just as P450 enzymes do, possibly due to small
structural differences in amino acid residues. The findings summarized here
provide a foundation for understanding the molecular mechanisms of polymorphic
non-P450 enzymes and should contribute to the successful application of non-human
primates as model animals for humans.

Copyright Â© 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2021.114887 
PMID: 34968483  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

