

2703. Cell Tissue Res. 2005 Jun;320(3):379-92. Epub 2005 Apr 9.

Differential expression of the GABA transporters GAT-1 and GAT-3 in brains of
rats, cats, monkeys and humans.

Pow DV(1), Sullivan RK, Williams SM, Scott HL, Dodd PR, Finkelstein D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Biomedical Sciences,
University of Queensland, Brisbane, 4072, Australia. d.pow@eaats.org

The homeostasis of GABA is critical to normal brain function. Extracellular
levels of GABA are regulated mainly by plasmalemmal gamma-aminobutyric acid
(GABA) transporters. Whereas the expression of GABA transporters has been
extensively studied in rodents, validation of this data in other species,
including humans, has been limited. As this information is crucial for our
understanding of therapeutic options in human diseases such as epilepsy, we have 
compared, by immunocytochemistry, the distributions of the GABA transporters
GAT-1 and GAT-3 in rats, cats, monkeys and humans. We demonstrate subtle
differences between the results reported in the literature and our results, such 
as the predominance of GAT-1 labelling in neurons rather than astrocytes in the
rat cortex. We note that the optimal localisation of GAT-1 in cats, monkeys and
humans requires the use of an antibody against the human sequence carboxyl
terminal region of GAT-1 rather than against the slightly different rat sequence.
We demonstrate that GAT-3 is localised mainly to astrocytes in hindbrain and
midbrain regions of rat brains. However, in species such as cats, monkeys and
humans, additional strong immunolabelling of oligodendrocytes has also been
observed. We suggest that differences in GAT distribution, especially the
expression of GAT-3 by oligodendrocytes in humans, must be accommodated in
extrapolating rodent models of GABA homeostasis to humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-004-0928-0 
PMID: 15821932  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

