

2705. Arch Toxicol. 2005 Mar;79(3):147-54. Epub 2004 Nov 11.

Species differences in the metabolism of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) in
several organs of mice, rats, and marmosets.

Ito Y(1), Yokota H, Wang R, Yamanoshita O, Ichihara G, Wang H, Kurata Y, Takagi
K, Nakajima T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health, Nagoya University
Graduate School of Medicine, 466-8550, Nagoya, Japan.

To clarify species differences in the metabolism of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate
(DEHP) we measured the activity of four DEHP-metabolizing enzymes (lipase,
UDP-glucuronyltransferase (UGT), alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), and aldehyde
dehydrogenase (ALDH)) in several organs (the liver, lungs, kidneys, and small
intestine) of mice (CD-1), rats (Sprague-Dawley), and marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). Lipase activity, measured by the rate of formation of
mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP) from DEHP, differed by 27- to 357-fold among 
species; the activity was highest in the small intestines of mice and lowest in
the lungs of marmosets. This might be because of the significant differences
between Vmax/Km values of lipase for DEHP among the species. UGT activity for
MEHP in the liver microsomes was highest in mice, followed by rats and marmosets.
These differences, however, were only marginal compared with those for lipase
activity. ADH and ALDH activity also differed among species; the activity of the 
former in the livers of marmosets was 1.6-3.9 times greater than in those of rats
or mice; the activity of the latter was higher in rats and marmosets (2-14 times)
than in mice. These results were quite different from those for lipase or UGT
activity. Because MEHP is considered to be the more potent ligand to peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor alpha involved in different toxic processes, a
possibly major difference in MEHP-formation capacity could be also considered on 
extrapolation from rodents to humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-004-0615-7 
PMID: 15798888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

