

2708. Eur J Pharmacol. 2005 Mar 21;511(1):43-52.

Serotonin1A-receptor antagonism blocks psychostimulant properties of
diethylpropion in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Mello EL Jr(1), Maior RS, Carey RJ, Huston JP, Tomaz C, MÃ¼ller CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Diethylpropion (1-phenyl-2-diethylamine-1-propanone hydrochloride) is a stimulant
drug with reinforcing properties that is used to treat obesity in humans. While
the anorectic properties of diethylpropion are mediated by a noradrenergic
mechanism, stimulant properties depend on its effects on the serotonergic (5-HT) 
and/or dopaminergic systems. In this study we investigated the role of the
5-HT1A-receptor in the acute behavioral effects of diethylpropion in marmosets
(Callithrix penicillata). Animals were pretreated with the selective
5-HT1A-receptor antagonist,
N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)
cyclohexane-carboxamide trihydrochloride (WAY 100635; 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) 
or saline (i.p.) and received a treatment with diethylpropion (10 mg/kg, i.p) or 
saline (i.p.). Diethylpropion induced an increase in locomotor activity in 60% of
the monkeys, which were classified as diethylpropion sensitive, but did not
affect locomotion in 40% of the monkeys (diethylpropion insensitive). Sensitivity
analysis revealed two types of responders to diethylpropion. In the sensitive
animals (type A) diethylpropion increased locomotor activity and anxiogenic-like 
behavior, but decreased bodycare activities. In the insensitive animals (type B) 
diethylpropion did not affect locomotor and bodycare activity after
diethylpropion, but led to a strong increase in anxiogenic-like behavioral
responses. Selective 5-HT1A-receptor antagonism modulated the acute
diethylpropion effects responder type specifically. In the sensitive (type A)
monkeys WAY 100635 blocked the diethylpropion-induced increase in locomotor
activity, while not affecting anxiogenic-like behavioral responses or the
suppression of bodycare activities. In the insensitive monkeys, WAY 100635 had no
effect on locomotor activity after diethylpropion, but blocked diethylpropion
effects on some anxiogenic-like behavioral responses. In conclusion, these
results suggest an essential contribution of the 5-HT1A-receptor to the stimulant
effects of diethylpropion, which is responder type specific. It also suggests the
5-HT1A-receptor to be a source of the interindividual variance in the acute
behavioral response to the stimulant diethylpropion in monkeys.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2005.01.037 
PMID: 15777778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

