

2710. J Neurosci Res. 2005 Apr 15;80(2):182-90.

Transplantation of human neural stem cells for spinal cord injury in primates.

Iwanami A(1), Kaneko S, Nakamura M, Kanemura Y, Mori H, Kobayashi S, Yamasaki M, 
Momoshima S, Ishii H, Ando K, Tanioka Y, Tamaoki N, Nomura T, Toyama Y, Okano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku, Tokyo,
Japan.

Recent studies have shown that delayed transplantation of neural stem/progenitor 
cells (NSPCs) into the injured spinal cord can promote functional recovery in
adult rats. Preclinical studies using nonhuman primates, however, are necessary
before NSPCs can be used in clinical trials to treat human patients with spinal
cord injury (SCI). Cervical contusion SCIs were induced in 10 adult common
marmosets using a stereotaxic device. Nine days after injury, in vitro-expanded
human NSPCs were transplanted into the spinal cord of five randomly selected
animals, and the other sham-operated control animals received culture medium
alone. Motor functions were evaluated through measurements of bar grip power and 
spontaneous motor activity, and temporal changes in the intramedullary signals
were monitored by magnetic resonance imaging. Eight weeks after transplantation, 
all animals were sacrificed. Histologic analysis revealed that the grafted human 
NSPCs survived and differentiated into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes,
and that the cavities were smaller than those in sham-operated control animals.
The bar grip power and the spontaneous motor activity of the transplanted animals
were significantly higher than those of sham-operated control animals. These
findings show that NSPC transplantation was effective for SCI in primates and
suggest that human NSPC transplantation could be a feasible treatment for human
SCI.

2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.20436 
PMID: 15772979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

