

2712. Chem Biol Interact. 2005 Feb 28;152(1):1-12.

Molecular cloning and functional analysis of cytochrome P450 1A2 from Japanese
monkey liver: comparison with marmoset cytochrome P450 1A2.

Narimatsu S(1), Oda M, Hichiya H, Isobe T, Asaoka K, Hanioka N, Yamano S, Shinoda
S, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Health Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama
University, 1-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.
shizuo@pharm.okayama-u.ac.jp

A cDNA encoding a novel cytochrome P450 1A2 (CYP1A2) was cloned from the liver of
an adult female Japanese monkey. The CYP1A2 protein was expressed in yeast cells 
and its enzymatic properties were compared with those of marmoset CYP1A2 using
ethoxyresorufin (ER) and phenacetin (PN) as substrates. The nucleotide sequence
of Japanese monkey CYP1A2 revealed 94.7, 99.5 and 93.5% identities to those of
human, cynomolgus monkey and marmoset monkey CYP1A2, respectively. Multiple amino
acid sequence alignment of Japanese monkey CYP1A2 with CYP1A2 of humans,
cynomolgus monkeys and marmosets showed that Japanese monkey CYP1A2 had 92.4,
99.0 and 91.9% identities to the human, cynomolgus monkey and marmoset enzymes,
respectively. Kinetic studies demonstrated that the enzymatic properties as ER
and PN O-deethylases were considerably different between the Japanese monkey and 
the marmoset CYP1A2. Furthermore, both of these reactions in liver microsomal
fractions from the Japanese monkey and marmoset showed biphasic kinetics. On the 
basis of the kinetic parameters, it is suggested that Japanese monkey CYP1A2 is a
high-K(m) enzyme in both ER and PN O-deethylations, whereas marmoset CYP1A2 is a 
high-K(m) and low-K(m) enzyme in ER and PN O-deethylations, respectively.
alpha-Naphthoflavone, an inhibitor of human CYP1A1 and CYP1A2, did not completely
inhibit the liver microsomal oxidations of ER and PN even at the highest
concentration (50muM), supporting the notion that CYP1A2 enzymes are not the sole
ER or PN O-deethylase in Japanese monkey and marmoset liver microsomes.
Inhibitory effects of furafylline, an inhibitor of human CYP1A2, on ER
O-deethylation by recombinant CYP1A2 enzymes were much lower than those of
alpha-naphthoflavone, but marmoset CYP1A2 was more sensitive to furafylline than 
Japanese monkey CYP1A2. These results indicate that the properties of Japanese
monkey CYP1A2 are considerably different from those of marmoset CYP1A2.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2005.01.006 
PMID: 15766918  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

