

2713. J Neurosci. 2005 Mar 9;25(10):2490-503.

Plasticity in primary auditory cortex of monkeys with altered vocal production.

Cheung SW(1), Nagarajan SS, Schreiner CE, Bedenbaugh PH, Wong A.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Memorial Laboratory and W. M. Keck Center for Integrative
Neuroscience, Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of
California, San Francisco, California 94143-0342, USA. scheung@ohns.ucsf.edu

Response properties of primary auditory cortical neurons in the adult common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) were modified by extensive exposure to
altered vocalizations that were self-generated and rehearsed frequently. A
laryngeal apparatus modification procedure permanently lowered the frequency
content of the native twitter call, a complex communication vocalization
consisting of a series of frequency modulation (FM) sweeps. Monkeys vocalized
shortly after this procedure and maintained voicing efforts until physiological
evaluation 5-15 months later. The altered twitter calls improved over time, with 
FM sweeps approaching but never reaching the normal spectral range. Neurons with 
characteristic frequencies <4.3 kHz that had been weakly activated by native
twitter calls were recruited to encode self-uttered altered twitter
vocalizations. These neurons showed a decrease in response magnitude and an
increase in temporal dispersion of response timing to twitter call and parametric
FM stimuli but a normal response profile to pure tone stimuli. Tonotopic maps in 
voice-modified monkeys were not distorted. These findings suggest a previously
unrecognized form of cortical plasticity that is specific to higher-order
processes involved in the discrimination of more complex sounds, such as
species-specific vocalizations.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5289-04.2005 
PMCID: PMC4060626
PMID: 15758157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

