

2714. Vet Pathol. 2005 Mar;42(2):117-24.

Systemic AA amyloidosis in the common marmoset.

Ludlage E(1), Murphy CL, Davern SM, Solomon A, Weiss DT, Glenn-Smith D, Dworkin
S, Mansfield KG.

Author information: 
(1)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, MA 
01772-9012, USA. elisabeth_ludlage@hms.harvard.edu

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate native to
Brazil that has been used extensively in biomedical research. A retrospective
analysis of archived hematoxylin and eosin-stained tissue sections and clinical
records was conducted at the New England Primate Research Center on 86 marmosets 
more than 1 year of age that were euthanized during the past decade because of
morbidity and failure to thrive. Approximately 17% (15 of 86) were found to have 
amyloid deposits in one or more organs, including the liver, adrenal glands,
kidneys, and intestine. This material was shown by amino acid sequence analysis
to be composed of serum amyloid A (SAA)-related protein. This type of
amyloidosis, designated AA or "secondary," is associated typically with an
inflammatory process that induces elevated levels of the SAA amyloidogenic
precursor molecule. Notably, there were no significant pathologic differences or 
other distinguishing features in animals with amyloid versus those without;
furthermore, on the basis of the limited number of serum specimens available for 
analysis, the SAA concentrations in the two groups were comparable, thus
suggesting the possible inheritable nature of the disorder. In this respect, the 
common marmoset provides a unique experimental model for study of the
pathogenesis and treatment of AA and other forms of systemic amyloidosis.

DOI: 10.1354/vp.42-2-117 
PMID: 15753464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

