

2717. Cancer Res. 2005 Feb 15;65(4):1577-86.

Functional characterization of EBV-encoded nuclear antigen 1-specific CD4+ helper
and regulatory T cells elicited by in vitro peptide stimulation.

Voo KS(1), Peng G, Guo Z, Fu T, Li Y, Frappier L, Wang RF.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Cell and Gene Therapy and Department of Immunology, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.

CD4(+) helper and regulatory T (Treg) cells play important but opposing roles in 
regulating host immune responses against cancer and other diseases. However, very
little is known about the antigen specificity of CD4(+) Treg cells. Here we
describe the generation of a panel of EBV-encoded nuclear antigen 1
(EBNA1)-specific CD4(+) T-cell lines and clones that recognize naturally
processed EBNA1-P(607-619) and -P(561-573) peptides in the context of HLA-DQ2 and
HLA-DR11, -DR12, and -DR13 molecules, respectively. Phenotypic and functional
analyses of these CD4(+) T cells revealed that they represent EBNA1-specific
CD4(+) T helper as well as Treg cells. CD4(+) Treg cells do not secrete
interleukin (IL)-10 and transforming growth factor beta cytokines but express
CD25, the glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor-related protein
(GITR), and Forkhead Box P3 (Foxp3), and are capable of suppressing the
proliferative responses of naive CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells to stimulation with
mitogenic anti-CD3 antibody. The suppressive activity of these CD4(+) Treg cells 
is mediated via cell-cell contact or in part by a cytokine-dependent manner.
Importantly, these Treg cells suppress IL-2 secretion by CD4(+) effector T cells 
specific for either EBNA1 or a melanoma antigen, suggesting that these CD4(+)
Treg cells induce immune suppression. These observations suggest that the success
of peptide-based vaccines against EBV-associated cancer and other diseases may
likely depend upon our ability to identify antigens/peptides that preferentially 
activate helper T cells and/or to design strategies to regulate the balance
between CD4(+) helper and Treg cells.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-2552 
PMID: 15735048  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

