

2720. J Immunol. 2005 Feb 15;174(4):2353-65.

Decay-accelerating factor (CD55) is expressed by neurons in response to chronic
but not acute autoimmune central nervous system inflammation associated with
complement activation.

van Beek J(1), van Meurs M, 't Hart BA, Brok HP, Neal JW, Chatagner A, Harris CL,
Omidvar N, Morgan BP, Laman JD, Gasque P.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Inflammation Immunity Group (BIIG), Cardiff University, Cardiff, United 
Kingdom. jvbe@lundbeck.com

There is compelling evidence that a unique innate immune response in the CNS
plays a critical role in host defense and clearance of toxic cell debris.
Although complement has been implicated in neuronal impairment, axonal loss, and 
demyelination, some preliminary evidence suggests that the initial insult
consequently activates surrounding cells to signal neuroprotective activities.
Using two different models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, we
herein demonstrate selective C1q complement activation on neuron cell bodies and 
axons. Interestingly, in brains with chronic but not acute experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis, C3b opsonization of neuronal cell bodies and axons 
was consistently associated with robust neuronal expression of one of the most
effective complement regulators, decay-accelerating factor (CD55). In contrast,
levels of other complement inhibitors, complement receptor 1 (CD35), membrane
cofactor protein (CD46), and CD59 were largely unaffected on neurons and reactive
glial cells in both conditions. In vitro, we found that proinflammatory stimuli
(cytokines and sublytic doses of complement) failed to up-regulate CD55
expression on cultured IMR32 neuronal cells. Interestingly, overexpression of
GPI-anchored CD55 on IMR32 was capable of modulating raft-associated protein
kinase activities without affecting MAPK activities and neuronal apoptosis.
Critically, ectopic expression of decay-accelerating factor conferred strong
protection of neurons against complement attack (opsonization and lysis). We
conclude that increased CD55 expression by neurons may represent a key protective
signaling mechanism mobilized by brain cells to withstand complement activation
and to survive within an inflammatory site.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.174.4.2353 
PMID: 15699172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

