

2722. Cereb Cortex. 2005 Oct;15(10):1510-23. Epub 2005 Feb 2.

Dynamics of auditory-vocal interaction in monkey auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Single neurons in the primate auditory cortex exhibit vocalization-related
modulations (excitatory or inhibitory) during self-initiated vocal production.
Previous studies have shown that these modulations of cortical activity are
variable in individual neurons' responses to multiple instances of vocalization
and diverse between different cortical neurons. The present study investigated
dynamic patterns of vocalization-related modulations and demonstrated that much
of the variability in cortical modulations was related to the acoustic structures
of self-produced vocalization. We found that suppression of single unit activity 
during multi-phrased vocalizations was temporally specific in that it was
maintained during each phrase, but was released between phrases. Furthermore, the
degree of suppression or excitation was correlated to the mean energy and
frequency of the produced vocalizations, accounting for much of the response
variability between multiple instances of vocalization. Simultaneous recordings
of pairs of neurons from a single electrode revealed that the modulations by
self-produced vocalizations in nearby neurons were largely uncorrelated.
Additionally, vocalization-induced suppression was found to be preferentially
distributed to upper cortical layers. Finally, we showed that the summation of
all auditory cortical activity during vocalization, including both single and
multi-unit responses, was weakly excitatory, consistent with observations from
studies of the human brain during speech.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhi030 
PMID: 15689521  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

