

2724. J Comp Neurol. 2005 Mar 7;483(2):164-91.

Resolving the organization of the New World monkey third visual complex: the
dorsal extrastriate cortex of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Rosa MG(1), Palmer SM, Gamberini M, Tweedale R, Pi√±on MC, Bourne JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Monash University Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
Monash University, Clayton VIC 3800, Australia. Marcello.Rosa@med.monash.edu.au

We tested current hypotheses on the functional organization of the third visual
complex, a particularly controversial region of the primate extrastriate cortex. 
In anatomical experiments, injections of retrograde tracers were placed in the
dorsal cortex immediately rostral to the second visual area (V2) of New World
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), revealing the topography of interconnections
between the "third tier" cortex and the primary visual area (V1). The data
indicate the presence of a dorsomedial area (DM), which represents the entire
upper and lower quadrants of the visual field, and which receives strong,
topographically organized projections from the superficial layers of V1. The
visuotopic organization and boundaries of DM were confirmed by
electrophysiological recordings in the same animals and by architectural
characteristics which were distinct from those found in ventral extrastriate
cortex rostral to V2. There was no electrophysiological or histological evidence 
for a transitional area between V2 and DM. In particular, the central
representation of the upper quadrant in DM was directly adjacent to the
representation of the horizontal meridian that marks the rostral border of V2.
The present results argue in favor of the hypothesis that the third visual
complex in New World monkeys contains different areas in its dorsal and ventral
components: area DM, near the dorsal midline, and a homolog of area 19 of other
mammals, located more lateral and ventrally. The characteristics of DM suggest
that it may correspond to visual area 6 (V6) of Old World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.20412 
PMID: 15678474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

