

2726. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004 Dec;1032:245-9.

Evidence for altered monoamine activity and emotional and cognitive disturbance
in marmoset monkeys exposed to early life stress.

Pryce CR(1), Dettling A, Spengler M, Spaete C, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal institute of Technology,
Zurich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.
pryce@behav.biol.ethz.ch

In common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus, order Primates), infants aged
2-28 days were deprived of parental care for 30-120 min/day in order to
investigate the long-term effects of this neglect-stress model on affect and
cognition in a primate species. Basal morning levels of urinary cortisol across
the first year of life were unaffected in early deprived marmosets relative to
their sibling controls. Basal morning levels of urinary dopamine were chronically
increased. This peripheral increase in dopamine activity could represent a marker
for central dopamine hyperactivity. Certainly, subadult early deprived marmosets 
exhibited performance deficits in two dopamine-regulated neuropsychological
tasks. They demonstrated: (1) impaired behavioral inhibition in an object
reaching with detour task, exhibiting significantly more nonreinforced forward
reaches to a reward visible inside a cube that could only be retrieved through an
opening to the side of the cube; and (2) impaired reversal learning in a two-way 
discrimination task based on visual icons presented on a touch-sensitive computer
screen. These findings provide further evidence for the relevance of this novel
primate model of parent-infant neglect to the environmental causes and mechanisms
of human developmental psychopathology.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1314.030 
PMID: 15677420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

