

273. Curr Biol. 2020 Oct 19;30(20):4047-4055.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.07.045. Epub 
2020 Aug 20.

Having Infants in the Family Group Promotes Altruistic Behavior of Marmoset
Monkeys.

Huang J(1), Cheng X(2), Zhang S(2), Chang L(2), Li X(2), Liang Z(3), Gong N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China; University of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100049, China.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China; Shanghai Center for Brain Science and
Brain-Inspired Intelligence Technology, Shanghai 201210, China. Electronic
address: zliang@ion.ac.cn.
(4)Institute of Neuroscience, Key Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, CAS Center 
for Excellence in Brain Science and Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China; Shanghai Center for Brain Science and
Brain-Inspired Intelligence Technology, Shanghai 201210, China. Electronic
address: ngong@ion.ac.cn.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) has attracted much attention as a useful
model for studying social behaviors [1-3]. They naturally live in a monogamous
family group and exhibit cooperative breeding [4], in which parents and older
siblings help to carry infants less than 2 months old [5-7]. Marmoset parents
also transfer foods to their offspring, a process that may help them learn the
food diet [8]. Furthermore, marmosets show spontaneous altruistic behaviors, such
as providing food to non-reciprocating and genetically unrelated individuals [9].
These social habits indicate that marmosets may be a useful non-human primate
model for studying parenting and altruistic behaviors, as well as underlying
neural mechanisms. Using a novel rescue paradigm, we found that marmoset parents 
and older siblings showed strong motivation to rescue trapped young infants but
not juvenile marmosets beyond 2 months of age, and infant calls alone could
trigger these parents' rescue behaviors. The marmoset parents showed little
rescue of each other, but young infants or infant calls could also induce such
parents' mutual rescue. Moreover, all these infant- and mate-rescue behaviors
depended on currently having young infants in the family group. Functional MRI
studies on awake adult marmosets showed that calls from young infants, but not
juvenile marmosets, elicited a large-scale activation of specific brain areas
including auditory and insular cortices, and such activation was absent in
marmosets not living with infants. Thus, such infant-induced modification of
neural activity offers a window for examining the neural basis of altruistic
behaviors in marmoset monkeys.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2020.07.045 
PMID: 32822603  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

