

2732. J Hypertens. 2005 Feb;23(2):417-26.

Aliskiren, a novel, orally effective renin inhibitor, lowers blood pressure in
marmosets and spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Wood JM(1), Schnell CR, Cumin F, Menard J, Webb RL.

Author information: 
(1)Novartis Institute for BioMedical Research, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: Aliskiren is a new renin inhibitor of a novel structural class that
has recently been shown to be efficacious in hypertensive patients after
once-daily oral dosing. We report the results of animal experiments performed in 
marmosets and rats in order to characterize aliskiren before its recent
investigation in humans.
METHODS: The effects of aliskiren were investigated in sodium-depleted marmosets 
(oral dosing) and in spontaneously hypertensive rats (dosing via subcutaneous
osmotic minipumps). Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate were measured by
radiotelemetry.
RESULTS: In sodium-depleted marmosets, single oral doses of aliskiren (1-30
mg/kg) dose-dependently lowered BP. At a dose of 3 mg/kg, peak effects were
observed 1 h after dosing (-30 +/- 4 mmHg, n = 6) and the response persisted for 
more than 12 h. A single oral dose of 3 mg/kg aliskiren was more effective than
the same dose of either remikiren or zankiren, two orally active renin inhibitors
previously tested in humans. Aliskiren (10 mg/kg) was at least as effective as
equal doses of the AT1-receptor blocker valsartan or the angiotensin-converting
enzyme inhibitor benazepril. In spontaneously hypertensive rats, aliskiren
dose-dependently (10-100 mg/kg per day) decreased BP. Aliskiren also potentiated 
the antihypertensive effects of low doses of valsartan or benazeprilat (1 or 3
mg/kg per day).
CONCLUSIONS: Aliskiren is an orally effective, long-lasting renin inhibitor that 
shows antihypertensive efficacy in animals superior to previous renin inhibitors 
and at least equivalent to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and
AT1-receptor blockers. Aliskiren may therefore represent an effective, novel
approach to the treatment of hypertension and related disorders, alone or in
combination with other antihypertensive agents.

DOI: 10.1097/00004872-200502000-00025 
PMID: 15662231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

