

2737. Toxicology. 2005 Jan 5;206(1):33-48.

Differential signatures of protein expression in marmoset liver and thymus
induced by single-dose TCDD treatment.

Oberemm A(1), Meckert C, Brandenburger L, Herzig A, Lindner Y, Kalenberg K,
Krause E, Ittrich C, Kopp-Schneider A, Stahlmann R, Richter-Reichhelm HB,
Gundert-Remy U.

Author information: 
(1)Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, Thielallee 88-92, 14195 Berlin,
Germany. a.oberemm@bfr.bund.de

2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is an ubiquitously distributed
environmental pollutant. Health effects have been studied intensively, but
low-dose effects are quite complex and not yet fully understood. In many studies,
the immune system was identified as the most sensitive target. Here, we
demonstrate changes of protein expression in liver and thymus of male marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) which were subjected to a single dose of a subcutaneous
injection of 100 ng/kg body weight TCDD. Histopathological examination revealed
myocardial fibrosis, but there were no significant findings in pathology and
histopathology of liver and thymus. In order to detect more subtle
treatment-related changes, we performed a comparative proteomic investigation of 
liver and thymus using a 2-D gel electrophoresis based proteomics approach.
Fluorescence labeling and automated image analysis was used to enhance
sensitivity and reproducibility. In both organs, distinct changes of protein
expression were detected which were more pronounced in thymus, where the pattern 
of deregulated proteins could be clearly related to immune responses. In the
thymus of treated animals, several toxicologically relevant factors were
increased, including chaperones, glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and
adseverin. Among others, vimentin, Ca-dependent protease and protein disulfide
isomerase were downregulated. In the liver, transferrins, lamin A and HSP70 were 
upregulated, whereas thymidine phosphorylase (synonyms: endothelial cell growth
factor, PD-ECGF, gliostatin) was significantly reduced. Comparative analysis of
deregulated proteins in both organs revealed a pattern of related functions,
which fits well into the existing knowledge of the toxic processes and mechanisms
underlying TCDD-mediated toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tox.2004.06.061 
PMID: 15590107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

