

274. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2020 Sep 1;117(35):21681-21689. doi:
10.1073/pnas.2003181117. Epub 2020 Aug 17.

Divergence of rodent and primate medial frontal cortex functional connectivity.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Hori Y(2), Gilbert KM(2), Gati JS(2), Menon RS(2)(3), Everling
S(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada; dschaeff@uwo.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, ON N6A 3K7, Canada.

With the medial frontal cortex (MFC) centrally implicated in several major
neuropsychiatric disorders, it is critical to understand the extent to which MFC 
organization is comparable between humans and animals commonly used in
preclinical research (namely rodents and nonhuman primates). Although the
cytoarchitectonic structure of the rodent MFC has mostly been conserved in
humans, it is a long-standing question whether the structural analogies translate
to functional analogies. Here, we probed this question using ultra high field
fMRI data to compare rat, marmoset, and human MFC functional connectivity. First,
we applied hierarchical clustering to intrinsically define the functional
boundaries of the MFC in all three species, independent of cytoarchitectonic
definitions. Then, we mapped the functional connectivity "fingerprints" of these 
regions with a number of different brain areas. Because rats do not share
cytoarchitectonically defined regions of the lateral frontal cortex (LFC) with
primates, the fingerprinting method also afforded the unique ability to compare
the rat MFC and marmoset LFC, which have often been suggested to be functional
analogs. The results demonstrated remarkably similar intrinsic functional
organization of the MFC across the species, but clear differences between rodent 
and primate MFC whole-brain connectivity. Rat MFC patterns of connectivity showed
greatest similarity with premotor regions in the marmoset, rather than
dorsolateral prefrontal regions, which are often suggested to be functionally
comparable. These results corroborate the viability of the marmoset as a
preclinical model of human MFC dysfunction, and suggest divergence of functional 
connectivity between rats and primates in both the MFC and LFC.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2003181117 
PMCID: PMC7474619
PMID: 32817555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

