

2740. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2004 Nov;79(3):391-400.

Effect of 5-HT1B/D receptor agonist and antagonist administration on motor
function in haloperidol and MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Jackson MJ(1), Al-Barghouthy G, Pearce RK, Smith L, Hagan JJ, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Science, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

An interaction between brain serotonergic and dopaminergic systems involving
5-HT(1B) receptors may contribute to motor complications arising from the drug
treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders. This study assessed the
effects of treatment with a non-selective 5-HT(1B/D) receptor agonist and a
selective 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist on akinesia induced in marmosets by
long-term treatment with haloperidol and on motor disability and l-3,
4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated marmosets. In
marmosets treated chronically with haloperidol, the 5-HT(1B) agonist SKF-99101-H 
reduced locomotor activity and induced motor disability, whereas the 5-HT(1B)
antagonist SB-224289-A had no effect on motor behaviour. Haloperidol
administration induced a suppression of locomotor activity which was not reversed
by co-administration of either SKF-99101-H or SB-224289-A. In MPTP-treated common
marmosets, neither SKF-99101-H nor SB-224289-A induced any significant change in 
motor function. However, SKF-99101-H inhibited L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and the 
reversal of motor deficits whereas SB-224289-A was without effect. The results of
this study indicate that the 5-HT(1B) receptor appears not to be an appropriate
target for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) or for the control of
drug-induced motor complications developed as a tong-term consequence of
neuroleptic or L-DOPA treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbb.2004.07.015 
PMID: 15582011  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

