

2744. Glia. 2005 Mar;49(4):520-41.

Glial glutamate transporter expression patterns in brains from multiple mammalian
species.

Williams SM(1), Sullivan RK, Scott HL, Finkelstein DI, Colditz PB, Lingwood BE,
Dodd PR, Pow DV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Biomedical Sciences,
University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

It is generally assumed that rodent brains can be used as representative models
of neurochemical function in other species, such as humans. We have compared the 
distributions of the predominant glial glutamate transporters in rodents,
rabbits, cats, pigs, monkeys, and humans. We identify similarities but also
significant differences between species. GLT-1v, which is abundantly expressed by
rodent astrocytes, is expressed only in a rare subset of astrocytes of cats and
humans, and appears to be absent from brains of rabbits and monkeys. Conversely, 
in the pig brain GLT-1v is expressed only by oligodendrocytes. GLAST and
GLT-1alpha expression differed significantly between species; while rodents and
rabbits exhibited uniform expression patterns in cortex, higher species,
including cats, pigs, monkeys, and humans, exhibited heterogeneities in cortical 
and hippocampal expression. Patches devoid of labeling intermingling with patches
of strong labeling were evident in areas such as temporal cortex and frontal
cortex. In addition, we noted that in human motor cortex, there were
inconsistencies in labeling for the C-terminal of GLT-1alpha and common domains
of GLT-1, suggesting that the C-terminal region may be missing or that an
unidentified splicing is present in many human astrocytes. Collectively our data 
suggest that assumptions as to the roles of glutamate transporters in any species
may need to be tested empirically.

DOI: 10.1002/glia.20139 
PMID: 15578656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

