

2745. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2004 Nov;112(10):574-9.

The carboxyterminal peptide of chorionic gonadotropin facilitates activation of
the marmoset LH receptor.

Müller T(1), Gromoll J, Simula AP, Norman R, Sandhowe-Klaverkamp R, Simoni M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University of Münster, Münster,
Germany.

Luteinizing hormone (LH) and chorionic gonadotropin (CG) are heterodimeric
glycoprotein hormones acting on the luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR). In the
LHR, which is genomically encoded by eleven exons, exon 10 encodes for the hinge 
region and its elimination impairs LH action, while CG maintains normal activity.
The two gonadotropins differ in the carboxyterminal peptide (CTP) present in CG
but absent in LH. Since the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) LHR naturally
lacks exon 10 (LHR type II), we generated two recombinant marmoset gonadotropin
preparations, one consisting of the wild type CG and one of truncated CG lacking 
the CTP (CG (-CTP)). After calibration in a mouse Leydig cell bioassay against
the WHO LH80/522 standard, the ED (50) of the CG preparation on a COS7 cell line 
permanently expressing the marmoset LHR was 4.25 +/- 0.21 IU/L (n = 3).
Stimulation of the COS7 cell line with equipotent concentrations of CG and CG
(-CTP) resulted in significantly different formation of cAMP (two-way ANOVA, p < 
0.001). In particular, cAMP production stimulated by CG (-CTP) was 3 - 4 times
lower compared to CG at the saturating CG concentration (8 IU/L). We conclude,
supplementing one current model of LHR activation, that exon 10 might play a
permissive role in releasing the constraint of the receptor upon hormone binding,
resulting in receptor activation. We speculate that, when exon 10 is lacking, the
CTP can overcome its absence and facilitates the opening of the receptor,
resulting in normal activation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-830409 
PMID: 15578332  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

