

2746. Brain Res. 2004 Dec 24;1030(1):94-102.

Autologous transplantation of expanded neural precursor cells into the
demyelinated monkey spinal cord.

Oka S(1), Honmou O, Akiyama Y, Sasaki M, Houkin K, Hashi K, Kocsis JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine,
Sapporo, Hokkaido 060-8543, Japan.

The objective of this study was to establish if neural precursor cells could
safely be developed from biopsy of the subventricular zone (SVZ) in the non-human
primate (marmoset), and to determine their myelinating potential after autologous
transplantation into a demyelinated lesion. Small amounts of tissue were safely
collected from the subventricular-subependymal zone of the adult primate brain
under ultrasonography without any neurological deficit. Neural precursor cells
were isolated and expanded in the presence of mitogen in vitro. The dorsal
columns of the adult marmoset spinal cord were demyelinated by X-irradiation and 
intraspinal injections of ethidium bromide in the center of the radiation field. 
Cell suspensions of the neural precursors were microinjected through a
micropipette into the demyelinated lesion site in the spinal cord. Lesions were
histologically examined 3 weeks after transplantation. Light and electron
microscopic examination of plastic embedded sections revealed a significant
number of myelinating profiles in the transplantation zone; no myelination was
observed in control lesions. The myelinated axons had predominantly peripheral
patterns of myelination. These results demonstrate that autologous
transplantation of neural precursor cells in the adult nonhuman primate can
remyelinate demyelinated central nervous system (CNS) axons, thus suggesting the 
potential utility of such an approach in demyelinating lesions in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainres.2004.09.062 
PMID: 15567341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

