

2755. Br J Nutr. 2004 Nov;92(5):841-9.

Energy restriction initiated at different gestational ages has varying effects on
maternal weight gain and pregnancy outcome in common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus).

Tardif S(1), Power M, Layne D, Smucny D, Ziegler T.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio, TX 78245-0549, USA.
stardif@icarus.sfbr.org

With relatively high fertility and short lifespan, marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus) may become useful primate models of prenatal nutritional effects on
birth condition and adult disease risk. The present study determined the effects 
of energy restriction to 75% of expected ad libitum consumption during mid- (day 
66) or late (day 99) gestation on maternal weight, fetal growth and pregnancy
outcomes in this species. Mid-restriction reliably induced the loss of pregnancy 
before term, at 92 d, on average. Of the late-restricted pregnancies, four of
seven were normal term length while three were preterm deliveries, at 101, 117
and 132 d. Control females had a mean mid-pregnancy weight gain of 0.67 g/d while
mid-restricted females lost -0.65 g/d, on average. Control pregnancies averaged a
1.06 g/d gain during late pregnancy, while energy-restricted females lost -0.67
g/d, on average. Restriction-related weight change was highly variable, ranging
from +0.55 to -2.56 g/d for mid-restriction pregnancies and from +0.79 to -3.91
g/d for late-restriction pregnancies. For mid-restriction pregnancies, the number
of restriction days was best explained by linear weight change and total weight
loss while the number of restriction days in late pregnancy was best explained by
linear weight change alone. In late-restriction pregnancies, smaller females had 
higher daily weight losses. Restrictions did not induce litter-size reduction or 
growth restriction in those infants that were delivered at term but the size of
aborted fetuses suggested that at least some pregnancies lost preterm may have
involved impaired intra-uterine growth.

DOI: 10.1079/bjn20041269 
PMID: 15533274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

