

2757. J Endocrinol. 2004 Oct;183(1):1-17.

Effects of GnRH antagonist treatment on follicular development and angiogenesis
in the primate ovary.

Taylor PD(1), Hillier SG, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, 49 Little France
Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK.

Angiogenesis is required for normal follicular development but the role of
gonadotrophins in the control of follicular angiogenesis remains to be
elucidated. This study investigated the effects of treatment with GnRH antagonist
in vivo on follicular development and angiogenesis in the marmoset. GnRH
antagonist was administered on either follicular day 0 or day 5 of the 10-day
follicular phase with ovaries collected on day 10. Ovaries from control marmosets
were studied at day 5 (mid follicular phase) and day 10 (periovulatory period).
Ovaries were fixed, serial sectioned and subjected to morphological analysis and 
immunocytochemistry to determine cell proliferation and follicular endothelial
cell area and in situ hybridization to assess changes in expression of vascular
endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Treatment with GnRH antagonist from day 0-10
resulted in an absence of dominant preovulatory follicles seen in controls. In
the remaining tertiary follicles granulosa, theca and endothelial cell
proliferation was reduced, resulting in a minor reduction in vascular density.
However, VEGF mRNA expression was unaffected by treatment. Treatment from day
5-10 did not prevent development of ovulatory size follicles, but they were
atretic and lacked VEGF mRNA. These results suggest that while VEGF expression in
the preovulatory follicle is under gonadotrophic control it is not dependent on
normal gonadotrophin secretion in tertiary follicles, indicating that there are
other paracrine factors regulating VEGF expression in the developing ovarian
follicle.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.1.05685 
PMID: 15525569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

