

2764. Chromosome Res. 2004;12(7):691-701.

Chromosome painting comparison of Leontopithecus chrysomelas (Callitrichine,
Platyrrhini) with man and its phylogenetic position.

Gerbault-Serreau M(1), Bonnet-Garnier A, Richard F, Dutrillaux B.

Author information: 
(1)FRE 2584 CNRS, Institut Curie, Section Recherche, 26 rue d'Ulm, 75248 Paris
Cedex 05, France.

Using human probes of whole chromosomes, the homoeologies between human and
Leontopithecus chrysomelas (Platyrrhini) karyotypes were established.
Thirty-three conserved segments were observed between the two species.
Intrachromosomal rearrangements between the two species were identified using
hybridization of chromosome arm probes of human chromosomes 1 and 3. We also used
chromosomal data to investigate phylogenetic relationships of Callitrichines.
These data were encoded using Cebus capucinus , a species which kept fairly
ancestral chromosomes, as reference. Two equi-parsimonious trees, including
reversion or convergence events, were obtained. The monophyly of Callitrichines
is confirmed. They share nine chromosomal rearrangements at least. The
Cebuella-Callithrix group forms a clade sharing five rearrangements at least.
According to the tree considered, the Tamarins, Leontopithecus and Saguinus share
two chromosomal rearrangements restricted to these two taxa or none. Callimico
accumulated seven chromosomal rearrangements unshared with other taxa, at least. 
To avoid convergence and reversion events, we propose the hypothesis of a network
(or populational) evolution. Six chromosomal rearrangements would have occurred
during the period of this network evolution. Finally, the karyotype of the last
common ancestor to all Callitrichines has been reconstructed. It possessed 48
chromosomes.

DOI: 10.1023/B:CHRO.0000045754.43803.db 
PMID: 15505404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

