

2765. Res Microbiol. 2004 Nov;155(9):731-40.

Antiproliferative activity of Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) actinomycetemcomitans 
and Fusobacterium nucleatum in peripheral blood mononuclear cells.

do Vale CH(1), de Oliveira Fraga LA, Costa AS, Tavares CA, Martins-Filho OA, de
Macedo Farias L, Roque de Carvalho MA.

Author information: 
(1)Núcleo de Pesquisa em Imunologia, Faculdade de Ciências da Saúde-FACS,
Universidade Vale do Rio Doce-UNIVALE, Gov. Valadares, MG, Brazil.

Several studies indicate Actinobacillus (Haemophilus) actinomycetemcomitans and
Fusobacterium nucleatum as etiologic agents of periodontal disease.
Immunosuppressive factors produced by microorganisms probably contribute to the
initiation and evolution of this disease. This study evaluated the
antiproliferative activity of ammonium precipitate fractions of A. (H.)
actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum isolates from humans and marmosets both
with and without periodontal disease. All A. (H.) actinomycetemcomitans and most 
F. nucleatum strains inhibited PBMC proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. The
degree of cell proliferative inhibition of each bacterial species differed among 
the strains and was independent of host clinical status. The in vitro inhibition 
of stimulated lymphocyte proliferation induced by different A. (H.)
actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum isolates demonstrated the importance of
this phenomenon in bacterial virulence, playing a possible suppressor role in
host defense mechanisms in vivo. Moreover, our findings pointed out a marked
difference between A. (H.) actinomycetemcomitans and F. nucleatum cytoplasmic
extracts in their antiproliferative activity, regarding the antigen concentration
required for maximum inhibition and their vulnerability to heating and
proteolytic treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resmic.2004.05.008 
PMID: 15501650  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

