

2766. Mov Disord. 2005 Mar;20(3):306-14.

Multiple small doses of levodopa plus entacapone produce continuous dopaminergic 
stimulation and reduce dyskinesia induction in MPTP-treated drug-naive primates.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Al-Barghouthy G, Rose S, Kuoppamaki M, Olanow W, Jenner 
P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, GKT School of Biomedical Sciences,
King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Long-acting dopamine agonist drugs induce a lower incidence of dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated primates and patients with Parkinson's disease compared to pulsatile
treatment with levodopa, supporting the concept of continuous dopaminergic
stimulation as a means of dyskinesia avoidance. We examined the effects of L-dopa
administered with or without the COMT inhibitor entacapone on dyskinesia
induction in previously untreated MPTP-treated common marmosets. Administration
of L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa twice daily produced fluctuating
improvement in motor behavior coupled with dyskinesia. Coadministration with
entacapone produced similar patterns of motor improvement and dyskinesia that
were not different from that produced by L-dopa alone. Treatment with L-dopa
(6.25 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa four times daily reversed motor disability and
induced dyskinesia in a manner that was not different from the twice-daily
treatment regimens. However, coadministration with entacapone produced more
continuous improvement in locomotor activity with less dyskinesia than animals
treated with L-dopa four times daily alone. These data support the notion that
pulsatile stimulation contributes to the development of dyskinesia and suggests
that more frequent dosing of L-dopa plus entacapone may be a useful treatment
strategy for patients in the early stages of Parkinson's disease.

2004 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.20317 
PMID: 15490461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

