

2767. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2005 Jan;90(1):335-9. Epub 2004 Oct 13.

Endocrine changes in full-term pregnancies and pregnancy loss due to energy
restriction in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Tardif SD(1), Ziegler TE, Power M, Layne DG.

Author information: 
(1)Southwest National Primate Research Center, P.O. Box 760549, San Antonio,
Texas 78245-0549, USA. stardif@icarus.sfbr.org

Common marmosets, a New World primate, respond to a modest energy restriction
with early termination of the pregnancy. Within female marmosets, comparisons (n 
= 6) between a normal, term pregnancy and a restriction-induced aborted pregnancy
were used to establish cortisol, free estradiol, and chorionic gonadotropin (CG) 
as urinary markers of placental and fetal function under these two conditions.
Abortions occurred 11-47 d after a 25% energy reduction during midpregnancy for
all females. Cortisol concentrations were significantly lower in the last 2 wk
for the restricted pregnancy than for matched samples in the normal term
pregnancy. Both estradiol and estrone were examined in free and conjugated forms.
Only free estradiol showed a significant reduction in mean concentrations during 
midpregnancy for the restricted females compared with their normal, term
pregnancies. Mean CG levels from each female served as an independent marker of
placental differentiation and function. CG levels were significantly lower during
the 2 wk before abortion compared with matched days from a normal, term
pregnancy. These data provide evidence that estradiol and cortisol are useful
markers of placental and fetal viability in the common marmoset, and their
reduced concentration following energy restriction suggests that restriction is
not acting as a classical stressor by increasing cortisol and, subsequently,
estradiol concentration.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2004-1064 
PMID: 15483089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

