

2769. Anat Rec A Discov Mol Cell Evol Biol. 2004 Nov;281(1):1173-81.

Distribution of olfactory epithelium in the primate nasal cavity: are microsmia
and macrosmia valid morphological concepts?

Smith TD(1), Bhatnagar KP, Tuladhar P, Burrows AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physical Therapy, Slippery Rock University, Slippery Rock,
Pennsylvania 16057, USA. timothy.smith@sru.edu

The terms "microsmatic" and "macrosmatic" are used to compare species with
greater versus lesser olfactory capabilities, such as carnivores compared to
certain primates. These categories have been morphologically defined based on the
size of olfactory bulb and surface area of olfactory epithelium in the nasal
fossa. The present study examines assumptions regarding the morphological
relationship of bony elements to the olfactory mucosa, the utility of olfactory
epithelial surface area as a comparative measurement, and the utility of the
microsmatic concept. We examined the distribution of olfactory neuroepithelium
(OE) across the anteroposterior length of the nasal fossa (from the first
completely enclosed cross-section of the nasal fossa to the choanae) in the
microsmatic marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) compared to four species of nocturnal
strepsirrhines (Otolemur crassicaudatus, O. garnetti, Microcebus murinus, and
Cheirogaleus medius). Adults of all species were examined and infant C. jacchus, 
O. crassicaudatus, M. murinus, and C. medius were also examined. All specimens
were serially sectioned in the coronal plane and prepared for light microscopic
study. Distribution of OE across all the turbinals, nasal septal surfaces, and
accessory spaces of the nasal chamber was recorded for each specimen. The right
nasal fossae of one adult C. jacchus and one neonatal M. murinus were also
three-dimensionally reconstructed using Scion Image software to reveal OE
distribution. Findings showed OE to be distributed relatively more anteriorly in 
adult C. jacchus compared to strepsirrhines. It was also distributed more
anteriorly along the nasal septal walls and recesses in neonates than adults. Our
findings also showed that OE surface area was not a reliable proxy for receptor
neuron numbers due to differing OE thickness among species. Such results indicate
that nasal cavity morphology must be carefully reconsidered regarding traditional
functional roles (olfaction versus air conditioning) assigned to various nasal
cavity structures. At present, the microsmatic concept itself lacks a basis in
nasal chamber morphology, since OE may have varying patterns of distribution
among different primates.

(c) 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.a.20122 
PMID: 15472902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

