

2773. Braz J Biol. 2004 May;64(2):363-70.

Seasonality of the activity pattern of Callithrix penicillata (Primates,
Callitrichidae) in the cerrado (scrub savanna vegetation).

Vilela SL(1), de Faria DS.

Author information: 
(1)Universidade de Brasília, Instituto de Biologia, Departamento de Ecologia.
C.P. 04631, CEP 70919-970, Brasília, DF, Brazil. sinara.vilela@ibama.gov.br

Two wild groups of Callithrix penicillata, the Black Pincelled Marmoset, were
observed from January to September 1998, in two areas, one an area of dense scrub
savanna vegetation (cerrado) and the other, a semidecidual woodland (cerradão),
both within the boundaries of the Ecological Reserve of IBGE (Brazilian Institute
of Geography and Statistics), in an environmentally protected area, the APA
(Portuguese abbreviation for "environmental protected area")
Gama/Cabeça-de-Veado, Brasília, DF. The behavioral data collected during the
rainy (January 15 to April 15) and dry season (June 1 to September 15) were
compared. Because of the proximity to the Reserve facilities, the group from the 
dense scrub savanna vegetation (CD) was submitted to antropic impacts different
from the group in the semidecidual woodland (CE), which was using as territory an
area that had been suffering from man-made fires every two years as part of a
long-term experimental project on fire impacts. The behavioral data was
quantified by instantaneous cross-section ("scan sampling") every ten minutes
with records of locomotion, rest, foraging for insects, use of exudate, and
feeding. During the whole year, the greatest percentage of time spent by CE and
CD was in foraging for insects, with 44% and 39%, respectively. It was evident
when comparing the data for the two seasons that, for both groups, foraging for
insects was more intense during the dry season, possibly to complement the
shortage of food, and locomotion increased during the rainy season. The greater
the availability and distribution of fruit in the areas, the greater the
locomotion of the groups to obtain these resources. None of the other behavioral 
patterns, including the use of exudates, presented significant differences
between the two seasons. Both groups foraged more frequently during the dry
season and locomoted more during the rainy one.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842004000200023 
PMID: 15462311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

