

2778. Nucleic Acids Res. 2004 Sep 15;32(16):e130.

Improving specificity of DNA hybridization-based methods.

Chalaya T(1), Gogvadze E, Buzdin A, Kovalskaya E, Sverdlov ED.

Author information: 
(1)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Moscow 117871,
Russia.

Methods based on DNA reassociation in solution with the subsequent PCR
amplification of certain hybrid molecules, such as coincidence cloning and
subtractive hybridization, all suffer from a common imperfection:
cross-hybridization between various types of paralogous repetitive DNA fragments.
Although the situation can be slightly improved by the addition of
repeat-specific competitor DNA into the hybridization mixture, the
cross-hybridization outcome is a significant number of background chimeric clones
in resulting DNA libraries. In order to overcome this challenge, we developed a
technique called mispaired DNA rejection (MDR), which utilizes a treatment of
resulting reassociated DNA with mismatch-specific nucleases. We examined the MDR 
efficiency using cross-hybridization of complex, whole genomic mixtures derived
from human and chimpanzee genomes, digested with frequent-cutter restriction
enzyme. We show here that both single-stranded DNA-specific and mismatched
double-stranded DNA-specific nucleases can be used for MDR separately or in
combination, reducing the background level from 60 to 4% or lower. The technique 
presented here is of universal usefulness and can be applied to both cDNA and
genomic DNA subtractions of very complex DNA mixtures. MDR is also useful for the
genome-wide recovery of highly conserved DNA sequences, as we demonstrate by
comparing human and pygmy marmoset genomes.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gnh125 
PMCID: PMC519126
PMID: 15371554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

