

2783. Exp Hematol. 2004 Sep;32(9):843-51.

Hematopoietic activity of common marmoset CD34 cells isolated by a novel
monoclonal antibody MA24.

Izawa K(1), Tani K, Nakazaki Y, Hibino H, Sugiyama H, Kawasaki A, Sasaki E,
Nishioka C, Ishii H, Soda Y, Yagita H, Tanioka Y, Tojo A, Asano S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: We focused on a small New World monkey, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), to establish a nonhuman primate model of the treatment of
hematological disorders. In this study, we developed the first monoclonal
antibodies (MAbs) against marmoset CD34 and tested the in vitro and in vivo
hemopoietic activity of cell populations isolated using one of these MAbs.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Marmoset cDNA encoding a human CD34 homologue was cloned
from bone marrow (BM)-derived RNA using reverse transcription polymerase chain
reaction and rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The amino acid sequence of the
marmoset CD34 had 81% homology with the human sequence. Five mouse MAbs were
raised against marmoset CD34 transfectant. One representative MAb, MA24 (IgM),
reacted with approximately 0.5 to 1% of BM mononuclear cells (MNCs), where the
colony-forming unit granulocyte/macrophage (CFU-GM) was enriched approximately
11- to 75-fold as compared with the whole BM MNCs. Multilineage differentiation
of marmoset CD34+ cells in NOD/SCID mice was confirmed by flow cytometry 1 month 
after xenotransplantation.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrated that MA24 is useful for the analysis and
enrichment of hematopoietic progenitor cells in the marmoset model for
preclinical experiments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2004.06.007 
PMID: 15345286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

