

2784. J Neurophysiol. 2005 Jan;93(1):22-34. Epub 2004 Sep 1.

A comparison of neuron response properties in areas A1 and CM of the marmoset
monkey auditory cortex: tones and broadband noise.

Kajikawa Y(1), de La Mothe L, Blumell S, Hackett TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson Hall 111 21Avenue 
South, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.

The purpose of this study was to compare response properties of two adjacent
areas of the marmoset monkey auditory cortex. Multiunit responses to 50 ms tones 
and broadband noise bursts (BBN) were recorded in the core area, A1, and the
caudomedial belt area, CM, of ketamine-anesthetized animals. Neurons in A1 and CM
exhibited robust low-threshold short-latency responses to BBN and tones, whereas 
neurons in adjoining lateral belt areas were poorly responsive or unresponsive to
tones and noise. Except for a population of broadly tuned units in CM, the
characteristic frequency (CF) could be determined for all recording sites in A1
and CM. Both areas were tonotopically organized and shared a high CF border.
Whereas the tonotopic gradient in A1 was smooth and continuous across the field, 
the gradient in CM was discontinuous, and the intermediate CF range was
underrepresented. For BBN stimuli, rate level functions were largely monotonic in
A1 and CM. Response profiles were also similar in both areas. As a population,
neurons in CM were distinguished from A1 by significantly shorter response
latencies, lower thresholds, and broader tuning bandwidth at higher intensities. 
The results indicated that, while A1 and CM represent anatomically and
physiologically distinct areas, their response profiles under anesthesia
overlapped considerably compared with the lateral belt areas. Therefore
refinements of current models of the primate auditory cortex may be needed to
account for differences in organization among the auditory belt areas.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00248.2004 
PMID: 15342713  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

