

2791. J Biol Chem. 2004 Oct 22;279(43):44442-59. Epub 2004 Aug 9.

Model of glycoprotein hormone receptor ligand binding and signaling.

Moyle WR(1), Xing Y, Lin W, Cao D, Myers RV, Kerrigan JE, Bernard MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of OB-GYN, Robert Wood Johnson (Rutgers) Medical School,
Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA. moyle@umdnj.edu

Studies described here were initiated to develop a model of glycoprotein hormone 
receptor structure and function. We found that the region that links the lutropin
receptor leucine-rich repeat domain (LRD) to its transmembrane domain (TMD) has
substantial roles in ligand binding and signaling, hence we term it the signaling
specificity domain (SSD). Theoretical considerations indicated the short SSDs in 
marmoset lutropin and salmon follitropin receptors have KH domain folds. We
assembled models of lutropin, follitropin, and thyrotropin receptors by aligning 
models of their LRD, TMD, and shortened SSD in a manner that explains how
substitutions in follitropin and thyrotropin receptors distant from their
apparent ligand binding sites enable them to recognize lutropins. In these
models, the SSD is parallel to the concave surface of the LRD and makes extensive
contacts with TMD outer loops 1 and 2. The LRD appears to contact TMD outer loop 
3 and a few residues in helices 1, 5, 6, and 7. We propose that signaling results
from contacts of the ligands with the SSD and LRD that alter the LRD, which then 
moves TMD helices 6 and 7. The positions of the LRD and SSD support the notion
that the receptor can be activated by hormones that dock with these domains in
either of two different orientations. This would account for the abilities of
some ligands and ligand chimeras to bind multiple receptors and for some
receptors to bind multiple ligands. This property of the receptor may have
contributed significantly to ligand-receptor co-evolution.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M406948200 
PMID: 15304493  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

