

2793. Hippocampus. 2004;14(5):615-27.

Co-expression of calretinin and gamma-aminobutyric acid in neurons of the
entorhinal cortex of the common marmoset monkey.

Pothuizen HH(1), Feldon J, Jongen-RÃªlo AL.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing interneuron population in the
entorhinal cortex has been shown to consist of several subpopulations. In
addition to GABA, these neurons contain another neurochemical substance, such as 
a neuropeptide or a calcium binding protein. In the present study, we examined
the co-localization of calretinin and GABA in the entorhinal cortex of the common
marmoset Callithrix jacchus, a New World monkey. Although the function of
calretinin remains unclear, there are indications that it might have a protective
role against cell death in a number of neuropathological diseases. Furthermore,
it might have a regulatory role in the neurotransmission of GABAergic neurons. In
contrast to the rat brain, sparse data exist regarding the degree of
co-expression of these two markers in the monkey brain. Using immunofluorescence 
and confocal laser scanning microscopy, we found that an average of 56% of the
calretinin-positive neurons in the monkey entorhinal cortex contained GABA,
whereas about 27% of the GABA-positive neurons co-expressed calretinin.
Interestingly, these numbers were higher in the superficial layers of the
entorhinal cortex in comparison with the deep layers. However, no differences
were found in co-localization percentages between the different entorhinal
subfields. In general, the degree of co-localization was higher in comparison to 
findings in the rat entorhinal cortex. The higher amount of co-localization
observed in the present study might reflect species differences between the
primate and the non-primate brain.

DOI: 10.1002/hipo.10204 
PMID: 15301438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

