

2796. J Virol. 2004 Aug;78(16):8878-84.

Expression in a recombinant murid herpesvirus 4 reveals the in vivo transforming 
potential of the K1 open reading frame of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated
herpesvirus.

Douglas J(1), Dutia B, Rhind S, Stewart JP, Talbot SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Infectious Diseases, University of Edinburgh, Summerhall, Edinburgh
EH9 1QH, United Kingdom.

Murid herpesvirus 4 (commonly called MHV-68) is closely related to Kaposi's
sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) and provides an excellent model system for 
investigating gammaherpesvirus-associated pathogenesis. MHV-76 is a naturally
occurring deletion mutant of MHV-68 that lacks 9,538 bp of the left end of the
unique portion of the genome encoding nonessential pathogenesis-related genes.
The KSHV K1 protein has been shown to transform rodent fibroblasts in vitro and
common marmoset T lymphocytes in vivo. Using homologous recombination techniques,
we successfully generated recombinants of MHV-76 that encode green fluorescent
protein (MHV76-GFP) and KSHV K1 (MHV76-K1). The replication of MHV76-GFP and
MHV76-K1 in cell culture was identical to that of MHV-76. However, infection of
BALB/c mice via the intranasal route revealed that MHV76-K1 replicated to a
10-fold higher titer than MHV76-GFP in the lungs at day 5 postinfection (p.i.).
We observed type 2 pneumocyte proliferation in areas of consolidation and
interstitial inflammation of mice infected with MHV76-K1 at day 10 p.i. MHV76-K1 
established a 2- to 3-fold higher latent viral load than MHV76-GFP in the spleens
of infected mice on days 10 and 14 p.i., although this was 10-fold lower than
that established by wild-type MHV-76. A salivary gland tumor was present in one
of four mice infected with MHV76-K1, as well as an increased inflammatory
response in the lungs at day 120 p.i. compared with that of mice infected with
MHV-76 and MHV76-GFP.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.78.16.8878-8884.2004 
PMCID: PMC479053
PMID: 15280496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

