

2799. Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2072-83.

Frontline: Epitope recognition on the myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
differentially influences disease phenotype and antibody effector functions in
autoimmune demyelination.

von BÃ¼dingen HC(1), Hauser SL, Ouallet JC, Tanuma N, Menge T, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of California-San
Francisco, 505 Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Eur J Immunol. 2004 Aug;34(8):2065-71.

Preliminary observations of humoral immunity against the myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (MOG) in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) and human
multiple sclerosis (MS) suggest that a subset of anti-MOG autoantibodies directed
against conformational epitopes is of pathogenic predominance. Here, we provide
proof that in marmoset EAE, autoantibodies reactive against conformational
epitopes of MOG are not only responsible for aggravating demyelination, but also 
an essential factor for disease dissemination in space within the central nervous
system, a hallmark for typical forms of human MS. In terms of effector
mechanisms, IgG deposition and complement activation occur exclusively in
association with presence of these conformational antibodies, while
microglial/macrophage activation appears to be a common immunopathological
finding regardless of the fine determinant specificity of anti-MOG antibodies.
These findings highlight for the first time the complex heterogeneity of function
and pathogenicity in the polyclonal anti-MOG antibody repertoire of outbred
species. Because the linear and conformational antibody determinants of MOG are
shared between marmosets and humans, these results are directly relevant to
understanding effector mechanisms of organ damage in MS.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200425050 
PMID: 15259004  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

