

280. Vet Pathol. 2020 Sep;57(5):681-686. doi: 10.1177/0300985820941271. Epub 2020 Aug 
12.

Histopathologic Patterns and Susceptibility of Neotropical Primates Naturally
Infected With Yellow Fever Virus.

Santos DOD(1), de Oliveira AR(1), de Lucena FP(2), de Mattos SA(2), de Carvalho
TP(1), Costa FB(1), Moreira LGA(1), Paixão TAD(1), Santos RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)28114Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.
(2)Instituto Municipal de Medicina Veterinária Jorge Vaistman, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.

Yellow fever is an important zoonotic viral disease that can be fatal for both
human and nonhuman primates. We evaluated histopathologic changes in free-ranging
neotropical primates naturally infected with yellow fever virus (YFV) compared
with uninfected cohorts. The most frequent lesions in primates infected with YFV 
were hepatic changes characterized by midzonal necrosis with lipidosis and mild
inflammation including lymphocytes, macrophages, plasma cells, and infrequently
neutrophils. Importantly, severe necrotizing hepatic lesions were often observed 
in Alouatta sp. (howler monkeys), whereas Callithrix sp. (common marmosets) had
nearly no hepatic changes. Moderate to severe hepatic necrosis was present in
21/23 (91%) of the YFV-positive Alouatta sp. compared with 10/29 (34%) of the
YFV-positive Callithrix sp. (P < .0001; odds ratio = 20). Similarly, hepatitis
was more intense in Alouatta sp. compared with Callithrix sp. Furthermore, the
frequency of YFV infection was significantly higher in Alouatta sp. compared with
Callithrix sp. or Sapajus sp. (capuchin monkeys). Therefore, these data support
the notion that Alouatta sp. is highly susceptible to infection and YFV-induced
lesions, whereas Callithrix sp. is susceptible to infection but has a lower
frequency of YFV-induced lesions.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985820941271 
PMID: 32783517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

