

2807. Cytogenet Genome Res. 2004;105(1):54-6.

The evolutionary conservation of the human chitotriosidase gene in rodents and
primates.

Gianfrancesco F(1), Musumeci S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Population Genetics, CNR, Alghero, Italy.
F.Gianfrancesco@igm.ss.cnr.it

Chitinases have been identified in a variety of organisms ranging from
prokaryotes to eukaryotes, known to specifically degrade chitin, an abundant
polymer of N-acetylglucosamine. Recently a human chitinolytic enzyme called CHIT1
was discovered. CHIT1 is expressed by activated macrophages and hydrolyzes
artificial chitotrioside substrates, but its specific function in humans is
unknown, since it is generally believed that man completely lacks endogenous
chitin and endogenous substrates for chitinases. An intriguing question is
whether the chitotriosidase activity is just an evolutionary remnant or it has a 
physiological function in man. To test these hypotheses we utilized a
"phylogenomic" approach performing accurate sequence analyses of this gene,
coding for CHIT1, in rodents and primates. Inspecting the sequences available in 
public databases, we determined that this gene is conserved in rodents (mouse and
rat) and primates (chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, gibbon, baboon, a common
marmoset and black macaque). Moreover we found that a 24-base pair duplication
that determines an enzymatically inactive human protein is not present in
primates, suggesting that this polymorphism was created during human evolution.
These results indicate that chitotriosidase is conserved across the evolutionary 
scale. Such conservation of the CHIT1 gene argues in favour of an important
biological role.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000078009 
PMID: 15218258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

