

281. Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2020 Oct;35(5):479-482. doi:
10.1016/j.dmpk.2020.06.002. Epub 2020 Jun 20.

Molecular cloning, sequence analysis, and tissue distribution of marmoset
monoamine oxidases A and B.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Japan.
(2)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Japan. Electronic address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate, is currently
attracting much attention as a nonhuman primate model for pharmacological and
pharmacokinetic studies in preclinical research. In this study, we newly isolated
the cDNAs of marmoset monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) and MAO-B from liver and brain,
respectively. MAO-A and MAO-B cDNAs, respectively, contained open reading frames 
of 527 and 520 amino acids and were approximately 92% and 95% identical to their 
human orthologs. Marmoset MAOs were phylogenetically closer to primate MAOs,
including human MAOs, than to pig, dog, or rodent MAOs. The genomic and gene
structures of marmoset MAOs were similar to those of humans. Among the five
marmoset tissue types analyzed, the expression levels of MAO-A mRNA were
relatively abundant in lung, liver, kidney, and small intestine, whereas the
expression levels of MAO-B mRNA were relatively abundant in brain, liver, kidney,
and small intestine; these tissue distributions are similar to those of human
MAOs. These results suggest that MAO-A and MAO-B are similar at a molecular level
in marmosets and humans.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Japanese Society for the Study of Xenobiotics. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dmpk.2020.06.002 
PMID: 32782138  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.

