

2812. Exp Neurol. 2004 Jul;188(1):128-38.

Selective blockade of D(3) dopamine receptors enhances the anti-parkinsonian
properties of ropinirole and levodopa in the MPTP-lesioned primate.

Silverdale MA(1), Nicholson SL, Ravenscroft P, Crossman AR, Millan MJ, Brotchie
JM.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

To date, the lack of highly selective antagonists at the dopamine D(3) receptor
has hampered clarification of their involvement in the actions of currently used 
therapies in Parkinson's disease. However, the novel benzopyranopyrrole, S33084, 
displays greater than 100-fold selectivity as an antagonist for D(3) versus D(2) 
receptors and all other sites tested. S33084 was administered to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned marmosets previously
primed with levodopa to elicit dyskinesia. Administered alone, S33084 exerted a
modest, but significant, anti-parkinsonian effect without provoking dyskinesia.
At low D(3)-selective doses (0.16 and 0.64 mg/kg), S33084 potentiated, though to 
different extents and in qualitatively different ways, the anti-parkinsonian
actions of both ropinirole and levodopa. At these doses, S33084 did not
significantly modify levodopa-induced or ropinirole-induced dyskinesia. These
data suggest that ropinirole and levodopa do not exert their anti-parkinsonian or
pro-dyskinetic actions via D(3) receptor stimulation. Indeed, stimulation of D(3)
receptors may be detrimental to the anti-parkinsonian properties of D(2)/D(3)
agonists. Selectivity for stimulation of D(2), over D(3), receptors may therefore
be a beneficial property of dopamine receptor agonists in management of motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease patients with established dyskinesia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.03.022 
PMID: 15191809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

