

2814. Primates. 2004 Jul;45(3):187-96. Epub 2004 Jun 4.

Behavioral and cardiophysiological responses of common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) to confrontations with opposite-sexed strangers.

Gerber P(1), Schnell CR.

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of ZÃ¼rich, Winterthurertrasse
190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. patricia.droz@bluewin.ch

Common marmosets exhibit under captive conditions socially monogamous
propensities. During confrontation with opposite-sexed stranger, in the presence 
of the pairmate, common marmosets often respond aggressively. However, in the
absence of their mates, males actively solicit contact and even sexual
interactions with strange females whereas mated females are indifferent to
strange males. In the present study behavioral and cardiophysiological responses 
of pairmates of six established pairs of common marmosets were recorded during
confrontation with an opposite-sexed stranger (1) in the presence or (2) in the
absence of the familiar pairmate. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart
rate as well as locomotor activity were recorded telemetrically through
peritoneally implanted transmitters. Behavioral responses were videotaped and in 
addition, urine samples from the female individuals were analyzed for their
estrogen concentrations to monitor their ovarian cycles. The cardiophysiological 
values did not differ significantly between the two confrontation conditions.
However, compared to baseline, heart rate values of both sexes and in males also 
blood pressure values, were significantly higher during confrontations. Hence,
confrontations with an opposite-sexed conspecific clearly affect
cardiophysiological parameters. Between confrontees affiliative behaviors could
not been recorded but aggressive and sexual behaviors occurred.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-004-0086-8 
PMID: 15179557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

