

2817. J Mol Endocrinol. 2004 Jun;32(3):703-18.

Cloning of oestrogen receptor beta from Old and New World primates:
identification of splice variants and functional analysis.

Sierens JE(1), Scobie GA, Wilson J, Saunders PT.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, The
Chancellor's Building, 49 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK.

Oestrogens have a major impact on reproductive function in both males and
females. Two oestrogen receptor genes known as ERalpha (ESR1NR3A1) and ERbeta
(ESR2NR3A2) have been cloned. Splice variant isoforms of the ERbeta gene have
been identified in human, bovine and rodents and it has been suggested that the
existence of these forms can influence oestrogen responsiveness. In the human,
splicing of an alternative eighth exon results in the formation of a C-terminal
variant called hERbetacx, or hERbeta2, but this isoform has not been identified
in other species. The aim of the present study was to clone ERbeta cDNAs from
primates so as to determine how closely they resembled the ERbeta isoforms found 
in the human. The two species studied were the stump-tailed macaque (Macaca
arctoides), an Old World primate, and the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus
jacchus), a New World primate. Full length ERbeta (wild type, ERbeta1) cDNAs were
cloned from macaque and marmoset; they encoded proteins of similar size to those 
found in human (59 and 54 kDa, long and short forms respectively) and shared
significant sequence homology (97.5% in macaque and 93.8% in marmoset) with the
human peptide sequence. Full length cDNAs homologous to the hERbeta2 variant were
identified in both primates. Marmoset ERbeta2 was slightly shorter than that of
human ERbeta2 (54 kDa compared with 55 kDa) and did not contain the peptide
sequence used to raise an anti-hERbeta2 antibody. All the macaque ERbeta2 cDNAs
contained 56 bp of intronic sequence which included an in-frame stop codon
resulting in translation of a truncated protein ( approximately 35 kDa). In all
three species, truncated, alternatively spliced mRNAs lacking exon 5 were
isolated on multiple occasions from all tissue extracts. In transient
transfection assays, ERbeta2-containing constructs were unable to induce
transcription of an oestrogen response element (ERE) reporter plasmid in the
presence of oestradiol. ERbeta1 from human, macaque and marmoset exhibited minor 
differences in their ability to induce transcription of the ERE reporter when
incubated with different ligands (oestradiol, PPT, DPN,
5-alpha-androstane-3-beta, 17beta-diol (3betaAdiol), genistein) and this may be
due to amino acid substitutions within their ligand binding domains. In
conclusion, we have identified and cloned wild type ERbeta (ERbeta1) from macaque
and marmoset and demonstrated that splice variant mRNAs homologous to hERbeta2
are formed in both species. The marmoset monkey, therefore, provides a suitable
animal model in which to investigate the impact of ERbeta variant expression on
tissue responsiveness to oestrogens.

DOI: 10.1677/jme.0.0320703 
PMID: 15171710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

