

2822. J Biol Chem. 2004 Jul 16;279(29):29944-51. Epub 2004 Apr 29.

An Hsp27-related, dominant-negative-acting intracellular estradiol-binding
protein.

Chen H(1), Hewison M, Hu B, Sharma M, Sun Z, Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California 90048, USA.

New World primates (NWPs) exhibit a compensated form of resistance to gonadal
steroid hormones. We demonstrated recently that estrogen resistance in NWP cells 
was associated with the overexpression of two proteins, a nonreceptor-related,
dominant-negative-acting estrogen response element (ERE)-binding protein (ERE-BP)
and an intracellular estradiol-binding protein (IEBP). Based on the N-terminal
sequences of tryptic fragments of IEBP isolated from a 17beta-estradiol (E2)
affinity column we cloned a full-length cDNA for IEBP from the estrogen-resistant
NWP cell line, B95-8. Subsequent sequence analysis revealed 87% sequence identity
between the deduced peptide for IEBP and human Hsp27. When hormone-responsive,
wild-type Old World primate (OWP) cells were transiently transfected with IEBP
cDNA, E2-directed ERE reporter luciferase activity was reduced by 50% compared
with vector only-transfected OWP cells (p < 0.0018). When IEBP and ERE-BP were
cotransfected, ERE promoter-reporter activity was reduced by a further 60% (p <
0.0001). Electrophoresis mobility shift analyses showed that IEBP neither bound
to ERE nor competed with the estrogen receptor (ER) for binding to ERE. However, 
there was evidence of protein-protein interaction of IEBP and ERalpha; IEBP was
coimmunoprecipitated with anti-ERalpha antibody in wild-type cells stably
transfected with IEBP. A specific interaction between ERalpha and IEBP was
confirmed in glutathione S-transferase pull-down and yeast two-hybrid assays.
Data indicate that the Hsp27-related IEBP interacts with the ligand binding
domain of the ERalpha. In summary, by inhibiting the ERalpha-E2 interaction, IEBP
acts to squelch ERalpha-directed ERE-regulated transactivation and promote
estrogen resistance in NWP cells.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M401317200 
PMID: 15123601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

