

2823. Mol Cell Biol. 2004 May;24(10):4522-33.

The Herpesvirus saimiri small nuclear RNAs recruit AU-rich element-binding
proteins but do not alter host AU-rich element-containing mRNA levels in virally 
transformed T cells.

Cook HL(1), Mischo HE, Steitz JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06536, USA.

Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) encodes seven Sm-class small nuclear RNAs, called HSURs
(for Herpesvirus saimiri U RNAs), that are abundantly expressed in
HVS-transformed, latently infected marmoset T cells but are of unknown function. 
HSURs 1, 2, and 5 have highly conserved 5'-end sequences containing the AUUUA
pentamer characteristic of AU-rich elements (AREs) that regulate the stability of
many host mRNAs, including those encoding most proto-oncogenes and cytokines. To 
test whether the ARE-containing HSURs act to sequester host proteins that
regulate the decay of these mRNAs, we demonstrate their in vivo interaction with 
the ARE-binding proteins hnRNP D and HuR in HVS-transformed T cells using a new
cross-linking assay. Comprehensive Northern and microarray analyses revealed,
however, that the levels of endogenous ARE-containing mRNAs are not altered in T 
cells latently infected with HVS mutants lacking HSURs 1 and 2. HSUR 1 binds the 
destabilizing ARE-binding protein tristetraprolin induced following activation of
HVS-transformed T cells, but even in such stimulated cells, the levels of host
ARE-containing mRNAs are not altered by deletion of HSURs 1 and 2. Instead, HSUR 
1 itself is degraded by an ARE-dependent pathway in HVS-transformed T cells,
suggesting that HVS may take advantage of the host ARE-mediated mRNA decay
pathway to regulate HSUR expression. This is the first example of
posttranscriptional regulation of the expression of an Sm small nuclear RNA.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.24.10.4522-4533.2004 
PMCID: PMC400482
PMID: 15121869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

