

283. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Oct;180:114189. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.114189. Epub 2020
Aug 5.

Expression of functional sulfotransferases (SULT) 1A1, 1A3, 1B1, 1C2, 1E1, and
2A1 in common marmosets.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Murayama N(2), Shimizu M(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima City,
Kagoshima 890 8580, Japan; Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd, Kainan,
Wakayama 642 0017, Japan. Electronic address: unoxx001@vet.kagoshima-u.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194 8543, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194 8543, Japan. Electronic address:
hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Cytosolic sulfotransferases (SULTs), which mediate the conjugation of drugs with 
3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate, have been characterized in humans and
cynomolgus monkeys. However, SULTs remain to be evaluated in common marmosets, a 
species of non-human primate often employed in drug metabolism and
pharmacokinetic studies of endogenous and exogenous compounds. In this study,
marmoset SULT1A1, 1A3, 1B1, 1C2, 1E1, and 2A1 cDNAs were isolated and
characterized, based on genome data. The deduced amino acid sequences of these
marmoset SULT cDNAs had high identities (90-95%) with their human orthologs,
except for marmoset SULT2A1, which was only 81% identical to human SULT2A1. The
amino acid sequences of the orthologs of these six SULTs in marmosets, monkeys,
and humans were closely clustered in a phylogenetic tree. The structures and
genomic organizations of marmoset SULT genes were similar to those of their human
orthologs. Among the five marmoset tissues analyzed, SULT mRNAs showed typical
expression patterns. The most abundant SULT mRNAs were SULT1B1 in liver, small
intestine, and kidney; SULT1E1 in lung; and SULT1A3 in brain. Recombinant
marmoset SULT1A1, 1A3, 1B1, 1C2, 1E1, and 2A1 proteins expressed in bacterial
cytosolic fractions mediated sulfate conjugations with
3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate of the following typical human SULT
substrates: dopamine, 1-naphthol, p-nitrophenol, estradiol, and
dehydroepiandrosterone. Taken together, these wide-ranging results suggest
functional and molecular similarities of SULTs among marmosets, monkeys, and
humans.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.114189 
PMID: 32768400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

