

2830. Exp Neurol. 2004 May;187(1):86-93.

Antiparkinsonian activity of Ro 25-6981, a NR2B subunit specific NMDA receptor
antagonist, in animal models of Parkinson's disease.

Löschmann PA(1), De Groote C, Smith L, Wüllner U, Fischer G, Kemp JA, Jenner P,
Klockgether T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Tübingen, Tuebingen, Germany.

N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists have antiakinetic and
antidyskinetic effects in animals models of Parkinson's disease (PD). However,
non-selective inhibition of NMDA receptors throughout the central nervous system 
may result in undesired effects such as ataxia and psychosis. We therefore
studied Ro 25-6981, an activity-dependent antagonist of NMDA receptors containing
the NR2B subunit which are predominantly expressed in the striatum. Ro 25-6981
induced contraversive rotations in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats
without stimulating locomotion in normal rats and reversed parkinsonian symptoms 
in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets.
Due to the small number of marmosets, there were no significant differences
between Ro 25-6981 and vehicle though there was a significant trend toward
differences, as shown by the Page test. Furthermore, Ro 25-6981 potentiated the
action of levodopa in both species and attenuated the maximal levodopa response
in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats chronically treated with levodopa without reducing the
overall response. Ro 25-6981 also potentiated the action of the dopamine receptor
agonists apomorphine, A68930 and quinpirole in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The present 
observations suggest a therapeutic potential of NR2B-selective NMDA receptor
antagonists in the management of PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2004.01.018 
PMID: 15081591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

