

2835. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 2004 Mar;43(2):28-31.

Cytologic assessment of the vaginal epithelium in the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus): a preliminary new approach to reproductive screening.

Gluckman TL(1), Walz SE, Schultz-Darken N, Bolton ID.

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin, USA.

The application of vaginal cytology in defining reproductive events is a widely
accepted and applied diagnostic tool in many species. Here we present a
preliminary approach to recognizing a correlation between changes in vaginal
epithelial cytology and circulating plasma progesterone in the common marmoset,
Callithrix jacchus, such that vaginal cytology could be diagnostically
appropriate for reproductive management. We assessed six captive-born adult
female common marmosets for the duration of one complete estrus cycle. Cytologic 
samples, collected by vaginal swab, and blood for plasma progesterone
concentration were collected twice weekly. Cytologic samples were blindly
assessed, and vaginal epithelial maturation was defined on the basis of the
karyopyknotic index (KPI). In the three consistently cycling females (cj0328,
cj0732, and cj0678), a marked increase in KPI corresponded with rising plasma
progesterone levels, which subsequently decreased throughout the duration of
follicular phase. The remaining three females who had previously irregular estrus
cycles (cj0608, cj0680, cj0724) demonstrated irregularity in their progesterone
profiles which correlated with inconsistent KPIs. Although KPI is not a very
sensitive single sampling indicator of ovulation, evaluating changes in cytologic
morphology over time aid in predicting the timing of an ovulatory event. Our
results suggest that vaginal cytology can be an effective alternative to blood
sampling for reproductive management of the common marmoset.


PMID: 15053505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

