

2839. Behav Brain Res. 2004 Apr 2;150(1-2):55-63.

Dissociation of hemi-spatial and hemi-motor impairments in a unilateral primate
model of Parkinson's disease.

Milton AL(1), Marshall JW, Cummings RM, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, Cambridge CB3 2EB, UK.

Monkeys with unilateral lesions of nigrostriatal dopamine projections were tested
on a series of spatial tasks. One task, in which monkeys were required to use one
or the other arm to retrieve food rewards from different positions, allowed
separate assessment of the use of each arm in each hemi-space in order to
distinguish hemi-spatial and hemi-motor impairments. The lesioned monkeys
exhibited a persistent neglect of contralesional space when using either arm
which could be dissociated from a motor impairment in the contralesional arm
alone. Another task allowed free use of either arm across peri-personal space and
demonstrated an ipsilesional bias in the monkeys' self-determined attention
(orientation) to a task which they were trying to perform. It is argued that the 
tendency for monkeys with this lesion to rotate ipsilesionally is due to an
ipsilesional deviation of the 'centre of interest' (determined by telencephalic
circuitry) relative to 'straight ahead' (determined by brainstem circuitry). The 
dopamine projections may contribute to cortico-subcortical circuits which
determine the spatial layout of mental representation, attention and intention.
The results in this primate model of unilateral Parkinson's disease (PD) support 
the view that patients with left-sided Parkinsonian symptoms exhibit a unilateral
deficit in spatial mental representation as well as their well-recognised motor
symptoms. Patients with bilateral Parkinson's symptoms may exhibit bilateral
deficits in mental representation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-4328(03)00231-6 
PMID: 15033279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

