

2840. Brain Res Cogn Brain Res. 2004 Apr;19(2):123-37.

Performance of the marmoset monkey on computerized tasks of attention and working
memory.

Spinelli S(1), Pennanen L, Dettling AC, Feldon J, Higgins GA, Pryce CR.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The CAmbridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB) is a
computerised battery of neuropsychological tests presented as stimuli on a
touch-sensitive computer screen that has been used to assess a wide range of
cognitive functions in neuropsychiatric patients, healthy volunteers, and species
of non-human primate, primarily the rhesus macaque. The common marmoset is a
small-bodied, tractable simian primate that breeds well under laboratory
conditions. This primate has been quite extensively studied in terms of its
abilities and limitations with respect to appetitive cognitive conditioning.
However, the CANTAB versions of sustained/divided attention and working memory
tasks have to-date not been studied in the marmoset. Here we describe adult
marmoset performance on the CANTAB five-choice serial reaction time task, a
delayed match-to-position task, and a task derived from the CANTAB visuo-spatial 
paired associates learning task that constituted two, concurrent delayed
match-to-position tasks. The acquisition and stable longitudinal performance of
these tasks provide strong evidence that the marmoset, in addition to the
macaque, can be the species of choice for CANTAB-based drug and lesion studies of
cognitive function, using tasks similar to those deployed in the study of human
cognition and diagnosis of neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cogbrainres.2003.11.007 
PMID: 15019709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

