

2847. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2003;15(7-8):367-75.

Flow cytometric sorting of frozen-thawed spermatozoa in sheep and non-human
primates.

O'Brien JK(1), Hollinshead FK, Evans KM, Evans G, Maxwell WM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Advanced Technologies in Animal Genetics and Reproduction, Faculty 
of Veterinary Science, The University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.
justineo@vetsci.usyd.edu.au

Research was conducted in sheep to determine an effective preparation method for 
high-purity sorting of frozen-thawed spermatozoa. The efficacy of sorting
frozen-thawed spermatozoa was then investigated in several non-human primate
species. An aliquot of each ejaculate (three rams, three ejaculates per ram) was 
processed as a fresh control (FRESH). Frozen spermatozoa were thawed and prepared
for sorting by no further processing (FT-NEAT), washing (FT-WASH) or gradient
centrifugation (FT-GRADIENT) and evaluated for motility at 1 h post-staining and 
motility and acrosomal status at 0 and 4 h post-sorting. Samples were analysed
using a high-speed cell sorter. High levels of purity for X- and Y-enriched
samples were achieved for all treatments (85-92%). The percentage of motile
spermatozoa before sorting was lower (P < 0.05) for frozen-thawed samples
(FT-NEAT: 32.7 +/- 2.5%; FT-WASH: 32.2 +/- 3.3%; FT-GRADIENT: 73.9 +/- 3.7%)
compared with FRESH (83.3 +/- 1.2%). Post-sorting, the percentage of motile
spermatozoa before and after incubation for FT-NEAT (60.0 +/- 5.1% and 27.2 +/-
6.1% for 0 and 4 h, respectively) was lower than that for FRESH (87.8 +/- 0.9%
and 83.3 +/- 1.2% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05), FT-WASH (80.0 +/- 2.4% 
and 71.7 +/- 3.6% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05) and FT-GRADIENT (84.4
+/- 1.3% and 77.2 +/- 1.7% for 0 and 4 h, respectively; P < 0.05). Vanguard sperm
migration distance through artificial cervical mucus was lower (P < 0.05) for
FT-NEAT (17.7 +/- 1.7 mm) compared with FT-WASH (29.1 +/- 3.8 mm) and FT-GRADIENT
(28.4 +/- 2.0 mm) and similar (P < 0.05) to FRESH (23.7 +/- 1.8 mm). Sample
preparation using a modified wash method enabled high-purity sorting (range
86-97% purity) of frozen-thawed epididymal spermatozoa in the baboon (Papio
hamadryas), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and common chimpanzee (Pan
troglodytes). For all non-human primate species, sorted spermatozoa were
progressively motile (marmoset: 20.5 +/- 5.5%; baboon: 37.5 +/- 2.5%; chimpanzee:
73.0 +/- 2.0%), acrosome intact (marmoset: 68.5 +/- 7.5%; baboon: 89.5 +/- 1.5%; 
chimpanzee: 84.0 +/- 1.0%) and able to penetrate an artificial cervical mucus. In
summary, high-purity sorting of frozen-thawed ram and non-human primate
spermatozoa with recovery of progressively motile, acrosome-intact spermatozoa
was possible after processing to remove cryodiluent.

DOI: 10.1071/RD03065 
PMID: 14984693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

