

2852. J Comp Neurol. 2004 Feb 16;469(4):494-506.

Synaptic connectivity of the diffuse bipolar cell type DB6 in the inner plexiform
layer of primate retina.

Jusuf PR(1), Lee SC, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13 and Institute for Biomedical Research, The
University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Diffuse bipolar cells in primate retina receive synaptic input from multiple
cones and provide output to ganglion cells. Diffuse bipolar cells can be
subdivided into six types (DB1-DB6) according to the stratification of their axon
terminals in the inner plexiform layer, but their synaptic connectivity in the
inner plexiform layer is not well understood. Here the stratification and
synaptic connectivity of DB6 axon terminals were studied in the retinae of New
World (marmoset) and Old World (macaque) monkeys. Immunohistochemical markers
were applied to retinal sections. The sections were analyzed by confocal and
deconvolution light microscopy as well as electron microscopy. The DB6 cells were
identified with antibodies against CD15; rod bipolar cells were identified with
antibodies against protein kinase Calpha (PKCalpha); and AII amacrine cells were 
identified with antibodies against calretinin. The axons of DB6 and rod bipolar
cells occupy distinct regions in stratum 5 of the inner plexiform layer. The
distal processes of calretinin-labeled AII cells are usually closely associated
with rod bipolar axons but sometimes also with DB6 axons. Pre-embedding
immunoelectron microscopy showed that the vast majority (over 86%) of the
synaptic output of DB6 cells is onto amacrine cell processes, whereas less than
14% goes to ganglion cell processes. In double-labeled preparations DB6 axons
occasionally made output onto calretinin-labeled amacrine processes. Thus it is
possible that AII cells receive some input from DB6 cells.

Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.11027 
PMID: 14755531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

