

2853. Eur J Neurosci. 2004 Jan;19(1):169-80.

First- and second-order stimulus length selectivity in New World monkey striate
cortex.

Bourne JA(1), Lui L, Tweedale R, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia.

Motion is a powerful cue for figure-ground segregation, allowing the recognition 
of shapes even if the luminance and texture characteristics of the stimulus and
background are matched. In order to investigate the neural processes underlying
early stages of the cue-invariant processing of form, we compared the responses
of neurons in the striate cortex (V1) of anaesthetized marmosets to two types of 
moving stimuli: bars defined by differences in luminance, and bars defined solely
by the coherent motion of random patterns that matched the texture and temporal
modulation of the background. A population of form-cue-invariant (FCI) neurons
was identified, which demonstrated similar tuning to the length of contours
defined by first- and second-order cues. FCI neurons were relatively common in
the supragranular layers (where they corresponded to 28% of the recorded units), 
but were absent from layer 4. Most had complex receptive fields, which were
significantly larger than those of other V1 neurons. The majority of FCI neurons 
demonstrated end-inhibition in response to long first- and second-order bars, and
were strongly direction selective. Thus, even at the level of V1 there are cells 
whose variations in response level appear to be determined by the shape and
motion of the entire second-order object, rather than by its parts (i.e. the
individual textural components). These results are compatible with the existence 
of an output channel from V1 to the ventral stream of extrastriate areas, which
already encodes the basic building blocks of the image in an invariant manner.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2004.03082.x 
PMID: 14750975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

