

2856. J Virol. 2004 Feb;78(4):2062-71.

Development of a GB virus B marmoset model and its validation with a novel series
of hepatitis C virus NS3 protease inhibitors.

Bright H(1), Carroll AR, Watts PA, Fenton RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, GlaxoSmithKline Medicines Research Centre, Stevenage, 
Hertfordshire SG1 2NY, United Kingdom. Helen.X.Bright@gsk.com

GB virus B (GBV-B), a flavivirus closely related to HCV, has previously been
shown to infect and replicate to high titers in tamarins (Saguinus sp.). This
study describes the use of GBV-B infection and replication in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) for the successful development and validation of a surrogate
animal model for hepatitis C virus (HCV). Infection of marmosets with GBV-B
produced a viremia that peaked at 10(8) to 10(9) genome copies/ml for a period of
40 to 60 days followed by viral clearance at 60 to 80 days postinfection. Passage
of the initial tamarin-derived GBV-B in marmosets produced an infectious stock
that gave a more reproducible and consistent infection in the marmoset. Titration
of the virus stocks in vivo indicated that they contained 1 infectious unit for
every 1,000 genome copies. Cultures of primary marmoset hepatocytes were also
successfully infected with GBV-B, with high levels of virus detected in
supernatants and cells for up to 14 days postinfection. Treatment of
GBV-B-infected hepatocyte cultures with a novel class of HCV protease inhibitor
(pyrrolidine 5,5 trans-lactams) reduced viral levels by more than 2 logs.
Treatment of GBV-B-infected marmosets with one such inhibitor resulted in a 3-log
drop in serum viral titer over 4 days of therapy. These studies provide the first
demonstration of the in vivo efficacy of a small-molecule inhibitor for HCV in an
animal model and illustrate the utility of GBV-B as a surrogate animal model
system for HCV.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.78.4.2062-2071.2004 
PMCID: PMC369465
PMID: 14747571  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

