

2857. J Appl Toxicol. 2004 Jan-Feb;24(1):59-68.

Low-level exposure of guinea pigs and marmosets to sarin vapour in air:
lowest-observable-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) for miosis.

van Helden HP(1), Trap HC, Kuijpers WC, Oostdijk JP, Benschop HP, Langenberg JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Countermeasures, TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, PO Box
45, 2280 AA Rijswijk, The Netherlands. helden@pml.tno.nl

The purpose of this pilot study was to indicate, for low-level exposure of
conscious guinea pigs and marmoset monkeys to sarin vapour in air, the
lowest-observable-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) of sarin for miosis. This is the
concentration x time (C.t) value (t = 5 h) of exposure at which miosis becomes
significant. The ratio of pupil and iris diameters, measured on digital
photographs taken on-line during exposure, was calculated as a measure for
miosis. The exposure concentrations were in the range 7-150 microg x m(-3) and
the exposure times needed to achieve significant miosis were in the range 10-300 
min. Both vehicle- and pyridostigmine-pretreated animals were used in the
experiments. The latter pretreatment resulted in ca. 30% inhibition of
erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase in both species. In vehicle-pretreated guinea
pigs and marmosets the pupil size was decreased significantly (P < 0.05) at sarin
doses of 1.8 +/- 0.3 and 2.5 +/- 0.8 mg x min x m(-3), respectively. In
pyridostigmine-pretreated guinea pigs and marmosets the pupil size was affected
significantly (P < 0.05) at 1.8 +/- 0.5 and 3.0 +/- 0.8 mg x min x m(-3),
respectively. Evidently there is no significant influence of pyridostigmine
pretreatment on the LOAEL. These data were addressed in light of the recommended 
occupational and detection limits for sarin vapour in air. It was concluded that 
miosis will occur during low-level sarin exposure at levels that are not
detectable by the currently fielded alarm systems, assuming that humans are as
sensitive for sarin vapour in air as guinea pigs and marmosets.

Copyright 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.948 
PMID: 14745848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

