

2859. Mov Disord. 2004 Jan;19(1):15-21.

The monoamine reuptake inhibitor BTS 74 398 fails to evoke established dyskinesia
but does not synergise with levodopa in MPTP-treated primates.

Hansard MJ(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Cheetham SC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) with levodopa (L-dopa) induces
dyskinesia that, once established, is provoked by each dose of L-dopa or a
dopamine (DA) agonist. In contrast, monoamine reuptake inhibitors may reverse
motor deficits in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated
primates without provoking established involuntary movements. We now examine
whether the potent monoamine reuptake blocker BTS 74 398 induces established
dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common marmosets primed previously with L-dopa and
whether co-administration of BTS 74 398 with L-dopa potentiates motor behaviour
and dyskinesia induced by acute L-dopa treatment. Administration of BTS 74 398
(2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg, p.o.) in MPTP-treated common marmosets increased
locomotor activity and reduced motor disability in a dose-related manner but did 
not provoke involuntary movements. BTS 74 398 (2.5, 5.0, or 10.0 mg/kg p.o.)
co-administered with a threshold dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg p.o.) did not evoke a 
motor response or induce dyskinesia. Similarly, concomitant administration of BTS
74 398 (5.0 mg/kg p.o.) with a submaximal L-dopa dose (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) did not
potentiate the motor response produced by L-dopa alone and there was no
alteration in the dyskinesia provoked by L-dopa challenge. BTS 74 398 reverses
motor abnormalities in MPTP-treated marmosets without evoking established
dyskinesia but no additive improvement occurs when administered in combination
with L-dopa. The lack of synergy with L-dopa may suggest different sites of drug 
action.

Copyright 2003 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10596 
PMID: 14743355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

