

2870. J Exp Biol. 2004 Jan;207(Pt 3):443-8.

Acoustic communication in noise: regulation of call characteristics in a New
World monkey.

Brumm H(1), Voss K, Köllmer I, Todt D.

Author information: 
(1)Freie Universität Berlin, Institut für Biologie, Verhaltensbiologie,
Haderslebener Strasse 9, 12163 Berlin, Germany. brumm@zedat.fu-berlin.de

This study on common marmosets Callithrix jacchus is the first to examine
noise-dependent mechanisms of vocal plasticity in a New World monkey. Since
acoustic communication can be considerably impaired by environmental noise, some 
animals have evolved adaptations to counteract its masking effects. The studied
marmosets increased the sound level of their spontaneous calls in response to
increased levels of white noise broadcast to them. Possibly, such noise-dependent
adjustment of vocal amplitude serves to maintain a specific signal-to-noise ratio
that is favourable for signal production. Concurrently, the adjustment of vocal
amplitude can maintain a given active space for communication. In contrast to
some bird species, no noise-induced increase in the number of syllables per call 
series could be found, showing that an increased serial redundancy of vocal
signals was not used to communicate under noisy conditions. Finally, we examined 
a possible noise-dependent prolongation of vocal signals. This approach was
guided by the findings of perceptional studies, which suggest an increased
detection probability of prolonged signals in noise by temporal summation.
Marmosets indeed increased the duration of their call syllables along with
increasing background noise levels. This is the first evidence of such mechanism 
of vocal plasticity in an animal communication system.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.00768 
PMID: 14691092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

