

2874. Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Dec 15;482(1-3):197-203.

Anxiolytic-like effects of the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 in
non-human primates.

Barros M(1), Mello EL, Maior RS, MÃ¼ller CP, de Souza Silva MA, Carey RJ, Huston
JP, Tomaz C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasilia, CEP 70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.

Non-human primates provide important insights into the potential use of 5-HT(1A) 
receptor antagonists in treating human anxiety disorders and as research tools,
given the existent inconsistencies in rodent tests. This study investigated the
effects of the selective silent 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist
N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexane-carboxa
mide trihydrochloride (WAY 100635), administered systemically, in an
ethologically based fear/anxiety test in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
penicillata). Subjects were tested using a figure-eight maze and a taxidermized
wild cat as 'predator' stimulus. After seven 30-min maze habituations in the
absence of the 'predator', each animal was submitted to four pseudo-randomly
assigned 30-min treatment trials in the presence of the 'predator': three WAY
100635 (0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) sessions and a saline control trial. The
'predator' stimulus caused a significant fear-induced avoidance of the maze
sections closest to where it was presented, indicating an anxiogenic effect.
However, WAY 100635 treatment reversed, significantly and dose-dependently, this 
fear-induced avoidance behavior, while increasing maze exploration. Sedation was 
not observed. This is the first study to suggest an anxiolytic-like effect of the
selective silent 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY 100635 in non-human primates,
indicating its potential use as a therapeutic agent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2003.09.064 
PMID: 14660023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

