

288. Virus Evol. 2020 Jun 30;6(1):veaa036. doi: 10.1093/ve/veaa036. eCollection 2020
Jan.

The characterization of two novel neotropical primate papillomaviruses supports
the ancient within-species diversity model.

D'arc M(1), Moreira FRR(1), Dias CA(1), Souza AR(1), Seuánez HN(2), Soares
MA(1)(2), Tavares MCH(1), Santos AFA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Diversidade e Doenças Virais, Departamento de Genética,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Av. Carlos Chagas Filho, Postal Code
21941-902, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Programa de Oncovirologia, Instituto Nacional de Câncer, Rua André Cavalcanti,
Postal Code 20231-050, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Papillomaviruses (PVs) are non-enveloped icosahedral viruses with a circular
double-stranded DNA genome of ∼8,000 base pairs (bp). More than 200 different PV 
types have been identified to date in humans, which are distributed in five
genera, with several strains associated with cancer development. Although widely 
distributed in vertebrates, Neotropical Primates (NP) PV infection was described 
for the first time only in 2016. Currently, four complete genomes of NP PVs have 
been characterized, three from Saimiri sciureus (SscPV1 to SscPV3) and one from
Alouatta guariba (AgPV1). In this work, we describe two novel PV strains
infecting Callithrix penicillata (provisionally named CpenPV1 and CpenPV2), using
anal swab samples from animals residing at the Brasilia Primatology Center and
next generation sequencing. The genomes of CpenPV1 (7,288 bp; 41.5%
guanine-cytosine content - GC) and CpenPV2 (7,250 bp; 40.7% GC) contain the
characteristic open reading frames (ORFs) for the early (E6, E7, E1, E2, and E4) 
and late (L2 and L1) PV genes. The L1 ORFs, commonly used for phylogenetic
identification, share 76 per cent similarity with each other and differ 32 per
cent from any other known PV, indicating that these new strains meet the criteria
for defining novel species. PV genes phylogenetic variance was analyzed and
different degrees of saturation revealed similar levels of topological
heterogeneity, ruling out saturation as primary etiological factor for this
phenomenon. Interestingly, the two CpenPV strains form a monophyletic clade
within the Gammapapillomavirus genus (provisionally named gammapapillomavirus
32). Unlike for other NP PV strains, which grouped into a new sister genus of
Alphapapillomavirus, this is the first report of NP PV strains grouping into a
genus previously considered to exclusively comprise Old World Primates (OWP) PVs,
including human PVs. These findings confirm the existence of a common ancestor
for Gammapapillomavirus already infecting primates before the split of OWP and NP
at ∼40 million years ago. Finally, our findings are consistent with an ancient
within-species diversity model and emphasize the importance of increasing
sampling to help understanding the PV-primate codivergence dynamics and
pathogenic potential.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/ve/veaa036 
PMCID: PMC7326299
PMID: 32665860 

