

2883. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2003 Nov 24;1:114.

Immunoexpression of the relaxin receptor LGR7 in breast and uterine tissues of
humans and primates.

Ivell R(1), Balvers M, Pohnke Y, Telgmann R, Bartsch O, Milde-Langosch K,
Bamberger AM, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research at the University of Hamburg,
Falkenried 88, 20251 Hamburg, Germany. ivell@ihf.de

BACKGROUND: The receptor for the peptide hormone relaxin has recently been
identified as the heptahelical G-protein coupled receptor, LGR7. In order to
generate molecular tools with which to characterize both in vivo and in vitro
expression of this receptor in human and primate tissues, specific monotypic
antibodies have been generated and applied to a preliminary analysis of human and
primate female reproductive tissues.
METHODS: Three peptide sequences were identified from the proposed open reading
frame of the cloned LGR7 receptor gene, representing both extracellular and
intracellular domains. Two to three rabbits were immunized for each epitope, and 
the resulting sera subjected to a systematic validation using cultured cells
transiently transfected with a receptor-expressing gene construct, or appropriate
control constructs.
RESULTS: Human and monkey (marmoset, macaque) endometrium showed consistent and
specific immunostaining in the stromal cells close to glands. Staining appeared
to be more intense in the luteal phase of the cycle. Weak immunostaining was also
evident in the endometrial epithelial cells of the marmoset. A myoma in one
patient exhibited strong immunostaining in the circumscribing connective tissue. 
Uterine expression was supported by RT-PCR results from cultured primary
endometrial and myometrial cells. Human breast tissue (healthy and tumors)
consistently indicated specific immunostaining in the interstitial connective
(stromal) tissue within the glands, but not in epithelial or myoepithelial cells,
except in some tumors, where a few epithelial and tumor cells also showed weak
epitope expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Using validated monotypic antibodies recognizing different epitopes 
of the LGR7 receptor, and from different immunized animals, and in different
primate species, a consistent pattern of LGR7 expression was observed in the
stromal (connective tissue) cells of the endometrium and breast, consistent also 
with the known physiology of the relaxin hormone.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7827-1-114 
PMCID: PMC293425
PMID: 14633277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

