

2887. J Virol. 2003 Dec;77(23):12494-506.

ORF73 of herpesvirus Saimiri strain C488 tethers the viral genome to metaphase
chromosomes and binds to cis-acting DNA sequences in the terminal repeats.

Verma SC(1), Robertson ES.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology. Tumor Virology Program, Abramson Comprehensive
Cancer Center, School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Kaposi's sarcoma (KS)-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), a human oncogenic
gamma-2-herpesvirus, transforms human endothelial cells and establishes latent
infection at a low efficiency in vitro. During latent infection, only a limited
number of genes are expressed, and the circularized viral genome is maintained as
a multicopy episome. Latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA), exclusively
expressed during latency, has been shown to have a multifunctional role in KS
pathogenesis. LANA tethers the viral episome to the host chromosome, thus
ensuring efficient persistence of the viral genome during successive rounds of
cell division. Besides episome maintenance, LANA modulates the expression of
genes of various cellular and viral pathways, including those of retinoblastoma
protein and p53. Herpesvirus saimiri (HVS), another gamma-2-herpesvirus,
primarily infects New World primates. Orf73, encoding the nuclear antigen of HVS,
is the positional homolog of the LANA gene, and the ORF73 protein has some
sequence homology to KSHV LANA. However, the function of ORF73 of HVS has not
been thoroughly investigated. In this report, we show that HVS ORF73 may be
important for episome persistence and colocalizes with the HVS genomic DNA on
metaphase chromosomes. Furthermore, HVS terminal repeats (TRs) contain a
cis-acting sequence similar to that in KSHV TRs, suggesting that the LANA binding
sequence is conserved between these two viruses. This cis-acting element is
sufficient to bind HVS ORF73 from strains C488 and A11, and plasmids containing
the HVS C488 TR element are maintained and replicate in HVS C488 ORF73-expressing
cells.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.77.23.12494-12506.2003 
PMCID: PMC262571
PMID: 14610173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

