

2889. Vis Neurosci. 2003 May-Jun;20(3):221-30.

Gain control from beyond the classical receptive field in primate primary visual 
cortex.

Webb BS(1), Tinsley CJ, Barraclough NE, Parker A, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham
NG7 2RD, UK. bsw@psychology.nottingham.ac.uk

Gain control is a salient feature of information processing throughout the visual
system. Heeger (1991, 1992) described a mechanism that could underpin gain
control in primary visual cortex (V1). According to this model, a neuron's
response is normalized by dividing its output by the sum of a population of
neurons, which are selective for orientations covering a broad range. Gain
control in this scheme is manifested as a change in the semisaturation constant
(contrast gain) of a V1 neuron. Here we examine how flanking and annular gratings
of the same or orthogonal orientation to that preferred by a neuron presented
beyond the receptive field modulate gain in V1 neurons in anesthetized marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus). To characterize how gain was modulated by surround stimuli,
the Michaelis-Menten equation was fitted to response versus contrast functions
obtained under each stimulus condition. The modulation of gain by surround
stimuli was modelled best as a divisive reduction in response gain. Response gain
varied with the orientation of surround stimuli, but was reduced most when the
orientation of a large annular grating beyond the classical receptive field
matched the preferred orientation of neurons. The strength of surround
suppression did not vary significantly with retinal eccentricity or laminar
distribution. In the marmoset, as in macaques (Angelucci et al., 2002a,b), gain
control over the sort of distances reported here (up to 10 deg) may be mediated
by feedback from extrastriate areas.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523803203011 
PMID: 14570244  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

