

2899. Neuroscience. 2003;121(2):307-14.

Dehydroepiandrosterone 7-hydroxylase CYP7B: predominant expression in primate
hippocampus and reduced expression in Alzheimer's disease.

Yau JL(1), Rasmuson S, Andrew R, Graham M, Noble J, Olsson T, Fuchs E, Lathe R,
Seckl JR.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Medicine Centre, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK.
joyce.yau@ed.ac.uk

Neurosteroids such as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), pregnenolone and
17beta-estradiol are synthesized by cytochrome P450s from endogenous cholesterol.
We previously reported a new cytochrome P450 enzyme, CYP7B, highly expressed in
rat and mouse brain that metabolizes DHEA and related steroids by hydroxylation
at the 7alpha position. Such 7-hydroxylation can enhance DHEA bioactivity in
vivo. Here we show that the reaction is conserved across mammalian species: in
addition to mouse and rat, DHEA hydroxylation activity was present in brain
extracts from sheep, marmoset and human. Northern blotting using a human CYP7B
complementary deoxyribonucleic acid (cDNA) probe confirmed the presence of CYP7B 
mRNA in marmoset and human hippocampus; CYP7B mRNA was present in marmoset
cerebellum and brainstem, with lower levels in hypothalamus and cortex. In situ
hybridization to human brain revealed higher levels of CYP7B mRNA in the
hippocampus than in cerebellum, cortex, or other brain regions. We also measured 
CYP7B expression in Alzheimer's disease (AD). CYP7B mRNA was significantly
decreased (approximately 50% decline; P<0.05) in dentate neurons from AD subjects
compared with controls. A decline in CYP7B activity may contribute the loss of
effects of DHEA with ageing and perhaps to the pathophysiology of AD.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(03)00438-x 
PMID: 14521990  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

