

29. J Virol. 2022 Feb 23;96(4):e0173921. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01739-21. Epub 2021 Dec 15.

Comparison of Experimental Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus Infection
Acquired by Three Individual Routes of Infection in the Common Marmoset.

Nelson M(1), O'Brien LM(1), Davies C(1), Keyser E(1), Butcher W(1), Smither
SJ(1), Nunez A(2), Salguero FJ(3), Lever MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)CBR Division, Defence Science and Technology Laboratorygrid.417845.b (Dstl),
Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Animal and Plant Health Agency, Weybridge, Addlestone, Surrey, United Kingdom.
(3)Public Health Englandgrid.271308.f, Salisbury, United Kingdom.

Two strains of Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), England 1
and Erasmus Medical Centre/2012 (EMC/2012), were used to challenge common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) by three routes of infection: aerosol, oral, and
intranasal. Animals challenged by the intranasal and aerosol routes presented
with mild, transient disease, while those challenged by the oral route presented 
with a subclinical immunological response. Animals challenged with MERS-CoV
strain EMC/2012 by the aerosol route responded with primary and/or secondary
pyrexia. Marmosets had minimal to mild multifocal interstitial pneumonia, with
the greatest relative severity being observed in animals challenged by the
aerosol route. Viable virus was isolated from the host in throat swabs and lung
tissue. The transient disease described is consistent with a successful host
response and was characterized by the upregulation of macrophage and neutrophil
function observed in all animals at the time of euthanasia. IMPORTANCE Middle
East respiratory syndrome is caused by a human coronavirus, MERS-CoV, similar to 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Humans typically
exhibit fever, cough, shortness of breath, gastrointestinal issues, and breathing
difficulties, which can lead to pneumonia and/or renal complications. This
emerging disease resulted in the first human lethal cases in 2012 and has a case 
fatality rate of approximately 36%. Consequently, there is a need for medical
countermeasures and appropriate animal models for their assessment. This work has
demonstrated the requirement for higher concentrations of virus to cause overt
disease. Challenge by the aerosol, intranasal, and oral routes resulted in no or 
mild disease, but all animals had an immunological response. This shows that an
appropriate early immunological response is able to control the disease.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01739-21 
PMCID: PMC8865480
PMID: 34908447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

