

290. Vet Res Commun. 2020 Nov;44(3-4):101-110. doi: 10.1007/s11259-020-09778-9. Epub
2020 Jul 10.

Infectivity, virulence, pathogenicity, host-pathogen interactions of SARS and
SARS-CoV-2 in experimental animals: a systematic review.

Sarkar J(1)(2), Guha R(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biochemistry, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow,
India.
(2)CSIR-Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, New Delhi, India.
(3)CSIR-Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research, New Delhi, India.
rajdeep.guha@cdri.res.in.
(4)Laboratory Animals Facility , CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute , Lucknow, 
India. rajdeep.guha@cdri.res.in.

The outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 in mainland China with subsequent human to human
transmission worldwide had taken up the shape of a devastating pandemic. The
ability of the virus to infect multiple species other than humans has currently
been reported in experimental conditions. Non-human primates, felines, ferrets,
rodents and host of other animals could previously be infected in experimental
conditions with SARS-CoV and recently with SARS-CoV-2, both virus using
Angiotensin-converting-enzyme 2 receptor for cellular entry. The variations in
sequence homology of ACE2 receptor across species is identified as one of the
factors determining virulence and pathogenicity in animals. The infection in
experimental animals with SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2 on most occasions are
asymptomatic, however, the virus could multiply within the respiratory tract and 
extra-pulmonary organs in most of the species. Here, we discuss about the
pathogenicity, transmission, variations in angiotensin-converting-enzyme 2
receptor-binding across species and host pathogen interactions of SARS and
SARS-CoV-2 in laboratory animals used in research.

DOI: 10.1007/s11259-020-09778-9 
PMCID: PMC7348560
PMID: 32651761  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

