

2910. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2003 Aug 15;191(1):48-62.

Toxicokinetics of the nerve agent (+/-)-VX in anesthetized and atropinized
hairless guinea pigs and marmosets after intravenous and percutaneous
administration.

van der Schans MJ(1), Lander BJ, van der Wiel H, Langenberg JP, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Division Chemical and Biological Protection, TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, PO 
Box 45, 2280 AA, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. schansm@pml.tno.nl

In continuation of our investigations on the toxicokinetics of the volatile nerve
agents C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman and (+/-)-sarin, we now report on the toxicokinetics of
the rather nonvolatile agent (+/-)-VX. A validated method was developed to
determine blood levels of (+/-)-VX by means of achiral gas chromatography at
blood levels > or =10 pg/ml. The ratio of the two enantiomers of VX in blood
could be measured at levels > or =1 ng/ml by using chiral HPLC in combination
with off-line gas chromatographic analysis. In order to obtain basic information 
on the toxicokinetics of (+/-)-VX, i.e., under conditions of 100%
bioavailability, the blood levels of this agent were measured in hairless guinea 
pigs at iv doses corresponding with 1 and 2 LD50. The derived AUCs indicate a
reasonable linearity of the toxicokinetics with dose. Also, the toxicokinetics in
marmoset primates was studied at an absolute iv dose corresponding with 1 LD50 in
the hairless guinea pig which led to approximately the same levels of (+/-)-VX in
blood as observed at 2 LD50 in the hairless guinea pig. Finally, the
toxicokinetics of (+/-)-VX were measured in hairless guinea pigs via the most
relevant porte d' entr√©e for this agent, which is the percutaneous route at a
dose corresponding with 1 LD50 (pc). Large variations were observed between
individual animals in the rate of penetration of (+/-)-VX and in concomitant
progression of AChE inhibition in blood of these animals. Blood levels of
(+/-)-VX increased gradually over a 6-h period of time. After a 7-h penetration
period, the total AUC corresponded with 2.5% bioavailability relative to iv
administration. In contrast with the G-agents C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman and (+/-)-sarin,
stereospecificity in the sequestration of the two enantiomers of (+/-)-VX is not 
a prominent phenomenon. It appears that (+/-)-VX is substantially more persistent
in vivo than the two G-agents. This persistence may undermine the efficacy of
pretreatment with carbamates of percutaneous intoxication in particular due to
gradual replacement of carbamate on AChE by (+/-)-VX, whereas classical treatment
of intoxication with oximes is hampered by the short persistence of oximes
relative to the agent.

DOI: 10.1016/s0041-008x(03)00216-3 
PMID: 12915103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

