

2915. Reproduction. 2003 Aug;126(2):227-38.

Localization of mRNA for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), angiopoietins
and their receptors during the peri-implantation period and early pregnancy in
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Rowe AJ(1), Wulff C, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, University of Edinburgh, Chancellor's Building, 49 Little
France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK.

Implantation of a blastocyst into a receptive endometrium is a prerequisite for
successful pregnancy. Angiogenesis is a key event in this process but the
mechanisms by which localized changes in vascular permeability and angiogenesis
occur have yet to be elucidated. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and
its receptors VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2 have been implicated as key players in vascular
remodelling and placentation. Angiopoietins also appear to have a significant
role in regulation of blood vessel growth, maturation and regression. The aim of 
this study was to describe the molecular regulation of angiogenesis in the first 
month of pregnancy in marmosets and to address the putative physiological roles
for these factors. Uteri were studied at weeks 2, 3 and 4 of pregnancy and
compared with late secretory non-pregnant endometrium. Implantation in marmosets 
occurs at day 11 of pregnancy; hence, these time points were chosen so that the
peri-implantation period and very early pregnancy could be studied. mRNAs for
VEGF, VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2, angiopoietin 1, angiopoietin 2 and their receptor
Tie-2 were localized and quantified by in situ hybridization. Endothelial cells
were identified by CD31 immunocytochemistry. VEGF mRNA was present in all
compartments except endothelial cells, and its expression generally increased
throughout pregnancy except in upper zone glandular epithelium and luminal
epithelium, where a decrease in expression was observed. VEGF receptor mRNAs were
found in endothelial cells of the upper zones immediately surrounding glandular
epithelium. Angiopoietin 1 mRNA was localized to glandular epithelium of the
upper and lower zones throughout pregnancy, and increased in stroma at week 4.
Expression of angiopoietin 2 mRNA was localized exclusively to endothelial cells 
of large luminal vessels and was higher in endometrium from marmosets at week 4
of pregnancy than in endometrium from all other stages. These data provide
comprehensive evidence that VEGFR-1 and -2, and angiopoietin 1, angiopoietin 2
and Tie-2 interactions may be involved in the preparation of endometrium for
implantation, remodelling of the maternal vasculature and trophoblast invasion
during the peri-implantation period in this primate species.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.0.1260227 
PMID: 12887279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

