

2916. J Virol. 2003 Aug;77(16):9099-105.

Novel gamma-1 herpesviruses identified in free-ranging new world monkeys
(golden-handed tamarin [Saguinus midas], squirrel monkey [Saimiri sciureus], and 
white-faced saki [Pithecia pithecia]) in French Guiana.

de Thoisy B(1), Pouliquen JF, Lacoste V, Gessain A, Kazanji M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de RÃ©trovirologie, Institut Pasteur de la Guyane, Cayenne, French 
Guiana.

The recent finding of a novel Epstein-Barr virus-related lymphocryptovirus
(CalHV-3) in a captive colony of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) in the
United States modifies the view that the host range of lymphocryptovirus is
restricted to humans and Old World primates. We investigated the presence of
Epstein-Barr virus-related viruses in 79 samples of New World monkeys caught in
the wild, including six species of the Cebidae family and one of the
Callitrichidae, living in the rain forest of French Guiana. Using a degenerate
consensus PCR method for the herpesvirus DNA polymerase gene, we identified three
novel lymphocryptoviruses from golden-handed tamarin (Saguinus midas) of the
Callitrichidae family and squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus) and white-faced saki
(Pithecia pithecia) of the Cebidae family. With the CalHV-3 strain, these three
novel viruses constitute a well-supported phylogenetic clade in the
Lymphocryptovirus genus, which is clearly distinct from the lineage of Old World 
lymphocryptovirus, hosted by catarrhine monkeys and humans. In tamarins, the
prevalence of the novel lymphocryptovirus was more than 50%, indicating that it
circulates well in the wild population, perhaps due to specific ecoethological
patterns such as confrontations and intergroup migration. The detection and
partial molecular characterization of the polymerase gene of three novel
Gamma-1-Herpesvirinae from New World monkeys caught in the wild clearly indicate 
that free-ranging populations of platyrrhine are natural hosts of
lymphocryptoviruses. Further characterization of these novel viruses will provide
new insight not only into the origin and evolution of Gammaherpesvirinae but also
into their pathogenicity.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.77.16.9099-9105.2003 
PMCID: PMC167222
PMID: 12885928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

