

2918. Gene Ther. 2003 Aug;10(15):1225-33.

Development of a novel non-human primate model for preclinical gene vector safety
studies. Determining the effects of intracerebral HSV-1 inoculation in the common
marmoset: a comparative study.

Deisboeck TS(1), Wakimoto H, Nestler U, Louis DN, Sehgal PK, Simon M, Chiocca EA,
Hochberg FH.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosurgical Service, Massachusetts General Hospital East, Harvard Medical
School, Charlestown, MA, USA.

The owl monkey (Aotus trivirgatus) has served as the standard non-human primate
model of herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) infection because it is highly
susceptible to HSV-1 encephalitis. Owl monkeys, however, are expensive, difficult
to obtain, and difficult to maintain in captivity, thus greatly hampering the
efficiency of preclinical gene therapy trials for brain tumors using HSV-1-based 
vectors. We have therefore compared the susceptibility of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) with the owl monkey in a model of intracerebral inoculation 
of wildtype HSV-1 F-strain at increasing titers. The common marmosets
consistently succumbed earlier to viral encephalitis than the owl monkeys. The
histological evaluation of the common marmoset revealed extensive HSV-1 infection
with a concomitant yet less marked inflammatory response compared to the owl
monkeys. PCR for HSV-1 demonstrated a similar extra-CNS shedding route in both
experimental models. Our findings show that the common marmoset is at least as
susceptible to intracerebral HSV-infection as the owl monkey and that it can
therefore serve as a valid and reliable experimental model for the important
preclinical safety tests of HSV-based therapeutic viral vector constructs in the 
brain.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.gt.3302003 
PMID: 12858187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

