

2920. Neuroscience. 2003;120(1):249-59.

Selective age-related loss of calbindin-D28k from basal forebrain cholinergic
neurons in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wu CK(1), Nagykery N, Hersh LB, Scinto LF, Geula C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neurodegenerative and Aging Research, Department of Medicine,
Harvard Medical School and Division of Gerontology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, 330 Brookline Avenue, Burlington Research Facility, Boston, MA 02215,
USA.

A significant number of the cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain of the
primate, but not the rodent brain contain the calcium binding protein
calbindin-D28k (CB). Previous experiments in our laboratory have demonstrated a
substantial age-related loss of CB from the human basal forebrain cholinergic
neurons (BFCN). The present study investigated the possible age-related loss of
CB from the BFCN in a non-human primate species, the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus). Quantitative analysis of matching sections as well as unbiased
stereological determination of neuronal number were used in 16 adult marmosets
ranging in age between 2 and 15 years. No significant changes were observed in
the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive BFCN when a group of young
animals (< or =4 years) was compared with a 6-8-year-old group and a
9-15-year-old group. Similarly, no age-related changes were observed in
Nissl-stained magnocellular basal forebrain (putatively cholinergic) neurons. In 
contrast, the BFCN of the two older groups of animals displayed a significant
loss of CB. The age-related loss of CB occurred in all sectors of the BFCN, but
was greatest in the anterior sector of this cell group. The CB loss was
neurochemically specific since the BFCN in the older groups of animals continued 
to express other markers such as high and low affinity neurotrophin receptors.
The age-related loss of CB from the marmoset BFCN was also regionally selective
as CB positive neurons in other structures, such as the cerebral cortex and the
striatum displayed no apparent age-related changes. These results indicate that
the marmoset BFCN display a significant and selective age-related loss of CB
reminiscent of that observed in the human. Therefore, the common marmoset
represents an appropriate animal model in which the consequences of BFCN CB loss 
can be investigated in depth. Loss of CB from the aged BFCN is likely to reduce
the capacity of these neurons to buffer intracellular calcium and to leave them
vulnerable to insults which can result in increased calcium levels. The
vulnerability of the CB-negative BFCN in the aged marmoset to various insults
which disturb calcium homeostasis remains to be investigated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(03)00248-3 
PMID: 12849757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

