

2921. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2003 Jul;36(7):913-8. Epub 2003 Jun 26.

Evidence of hemispheric specialization in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata)
using tympanic membrane thermometry.

Tomaz C(1), Verburg MS, Boere V, Pianta TF, Belo M.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Primatologia, Instituto de Biologia, Universidade de Brasília,
Brasília, DF, Brasil. ctomaz@unb.br

Recent studies have employed tympanic thermometry to assess lateralization of
cognitive and emotional functions in primates. However, no studies using this
technique have investigated the possibility of hemispheric specialization in New 
World monkeys. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate
tympanic membrane (TM) temperature asymmetries and their possible correlation
with stress responses in marmosets (Callithrix penicillata). Infrared TM
thermometry was completed bilaterally in 24 animals (14 males and 10 females)
during a stressful situation of capture and restraint. There were no significant 
differences between gender. A significant negative correlation was observed
between TM temperature of the right ear and the number of captures (r = -0.633;
P<0.001). Subjects with a more frequent previous history of captures (5 to 9
captures; N = 11) showed lower TM temperature when compared to those with fewer
previous captures (1 to 4 captures; N = 13). No differences were observed for the
left TM temperature. These results suggest that under intense emotional challenge
(capture and restraint) there is a stronger activation of the neural structures
situated in the right brain hemisphere. Taken together, the data reveal for the
first time evidence of hemispheric specialization in emotional physiological
processing in a New World monkey.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2003000700012 
PMID: 12845378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

