

2923. Br J Pharmacol. 2003 Jul;139(5):911-8.

Lipid-lowering properties of TAK-475, a squalene synthase inhibitor, in vivo and 
in vitro.

Nishimoto T(1), Amano Y, Tozawa R, Ishikawa E, Imura Y, Yukimasa H, Sugiyama Y.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacology Research Laboratories I, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Takeda
Chemical Industries, Ltd, Yodogawa-ku, Osaka 532-8686, Japan.

Comment in
    Br J Pharmacol. 2003 Jul;139(5):881-2.

1. Squalene synthase is the enzyme that converts farnesyl pyrophosphate to
squalene in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. We examined the lipid-lowering 
properties of
1-[[(3R,5S)-1-(3-acetoxy-2,2-dimethylpropyl)-7-chloro-5-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-o
xo-1,2,3,5-tetrahydro-4,1-benzoxazepin-3-yl]acetyl]piperidine-4-acetic acid
(TAK-475), a novel squalene synthase inhibitor. 2. TAK-475 inhibited hepatic
cholesterol biosynthesis in rats (ED(50), 2.9 mg kg(-1)) and showed
lipid-lowering effects in beagle dogs, marmosets, cynomolgus monkeys and Wistar
fatty rats. 3. In marmosets, TAK-475 (30, 100 mg kg(-1), p.o., for 4 days)
lowered both plasma non-high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and
triglyceride, but did not affect plasma HDL cholesterol. On the other hand,
atorvastatin (10, 30 mg kg(-1), p.o., for 4 days) lowered the levels of all these
lipids. A correlation between decrease in triglyceride and increase in HDL
cholesterol was observed, and TAK-475 increased HDL cholesterol with a smaller
decrease in triglyceride than did atorvastatin. 4. TAK-475 (60 mg kg(-1), p.o.,
for 15 days) suppressed the rate of triglyceride secretion from the liver in
hypertriglyceridemic Wistar fatty rats, which show an enhanced triglyceride
secretion rate from the liver compared with their lean littermates. 5. In HepG2
cells, TAK-475 and its pharmacologically active metabolite, T-91485, increased
the binding of (125)I-low-density lipoprotein (LDL) to LDL receptors. 6. These
results suggest that TAK-475 has clear hypolipidemic effects in animals via
inhibition of hepatic triglyceride secretion and upregulation of LDL receptors,
and that TAK-475 might increase HDL cholesterol by decreasing triglyceride. Thus,
TAK-475 is expected to be useful for the treatment of dyslipidemia.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0705332 
PMCID: PMC1573926
PMID: 12839864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

