

2927. Endocrinology. 2003 Jul;144(7):3130-7.

Differentiation-dependent expression of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase, type
10, in the rodent testis: effect of aging in Leydig cells.

Ivell R(1), Balvers M, Anand RJ, Paust HJ, McKinnell C, Sharpe R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg,
Falkenreid 88, 20251 Hamburg, Germany. ivell@ihf.de

Expression of the new 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD), type 10
(17beta-HSD-10), formerly known as endoplasmic reticulum-associated
amyloid-binding protein, has been investigated in the testes of various mammals
under normal and perturbed conditions. Results show that 17beta-HSD-10 is a major
product of both fetal and adult-type Leydig cells. In the former, protein
persists until late in postnatal development; and in the short-day hamster model,
it does not disappear when Leydig cells involute. During puberty in the rat,
immunohistochemical staining for 17beta-HSD-10 in adult-type Leydig cells first
becomes evident on d 20, increasing to maximal staining intensity by d 35. In the
rat, but not in the mouse or any other species examined, there is also staining
in late spermatids. Examination of testes from rats subjected to perinatal
treatment with either a GnRH antagonist or low and high doses of
diethylstilbestrol revealed that expression of 17beta-HSD-10 follows closely
Leydig cell differentiation status, correlating with 3beta-HSD expression in a
previous study. In aging (23 months) rat testes, Leydig cell (but not germ cell) 
immunostaining for 17beta-HSD-10 is markedly reduced. 17beta-HSD-10 seems to
preferentially convert 3alpha-androstanediol into dihydrotestosterone, and
estradiol to estrone. Thus, perinatal expression of this enzyme in fetal Leydig
cells may contribute to protecting these cells from estrogens and encourage
androgen formation.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2002-0082 
PMID: 12810569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

