

2930. ScientificWorldJournal. 2002 Jun 26;2:1762-73.

Embryonic stem cell lines of nonhuman primates.

Nakatsuji N(1), Suemori H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Development and Differentiation, Institute for Frontier Medical 
Sciences, Kyoto University, 53 Kawaharacho, Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507,
Japan. nnakatsu@frontier.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Human embryonic stem (ES) cell lines have opened great potential and expectation 
for cell therapy and regenerative medicine. Monkey and human ES cell lines, which
are very similar to each other, have been established from monkey blastocysts and
surplus human blastocysts from fertility clinics. Nonhuman primate ES cell lines 
provide important research tools for basic and applicative research. Firstly,
they provide wider aspects of investigation of the regulative mechanisms of stem 
cells and cell differentiation among primate species. Secondly, their usage does 
not need clearance or permission from the regulative rules in many countries that
are associated with the ethical aspects of human ES cells, although human and
nonhuman embryos and fetuses are very similar to each other. Lastly and most
importantly, they are indispensable for animal models of cell therapy to test
effectiveness, safety, and immunological reaction of the allogenic
transplantation in a setting similar to the treatment of human diseases. So far, 
ES cell lines have been established from rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta), common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), and cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis), using
blastocysts produced naturally or by in vitro fertilization (IVF) and
intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). These cell lines seem to have very
similar characteristics. They express alkaline phosphatase activity and
stage-specific embryonic antigen (SSEA)-4 and, in most cases, SSEA-3. Their
pluripotency was confirmed by the formation of embryoid bodies and
differentiation into various cell types in culture and also by the formation of
teratomas that contained many types of differentiated tissues including
derivatives of three germ layers after transplantation into the severe combined
immunodeficiency (SCID) mice. The noneffectiveness of the leukemia inhibitory
factor (LIF) signal makes culture of primate and human ES cell lines prone to
undergo spontaneous differentiation and thus it is difficult to maintain these
stem cell colonies. Also, these ES cells are more susceptible to various
stresses, causing difficulty with subculturing using enzymatic treatment and
cloning from single cells. However, with various improvements in culture methods,
it is now possible to maintain stable colonies of monkey ES cells using a
serum-free medium and subculturing with trypsin treatment. Under such conditions,
cynomolgus monkey ES cell lines can be maintained in an undifferentiated state
with a normal karyotype and pluripotency even after prolonged periods of culture 
over 1 year. Such progress should facilitate many aspects of stem cell research
using both nonhuman primate and human ES cell lines.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2002.829 
PMCID: PMC6009524
PMID: 12806169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

