

2931. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2003 Jun 15;189(3):170-9.

Long-term, low-level exposure of guinea pigs and marmosets to sarin vapor in air:
lowest observable effect level.

Van Helden HP(1), Trap HC, Oostdijk JP, Kuijpers WC, Langenberg JP, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Chemical and Biological Protection, TNO Prins Maurits Laboratory, 
P.O. Box 45, 2280 AA, Rijswijk, The Netherlands. helden@pml.tno.nl

Realistic scenarios for low-level exposure to nerve agents will often involve
exposures over several hours to extremely low doses of agent. In order to expose 
animals to the lowest controllable concentrations of agent and to increase
exposure times until a lowest observable effect level (LOEL) becomes measurable, 
a validated system was developed for exposing conscious animals to 0.05-1.0
microg/m(3) (8-160 ppt) of sarin and other nerve agents. Based on cold trapping
of sarin from the exposure air, the concentration could be measured
semicontinuously, at 4-min time intervals by means of gas chromatography. We
found that the LOEL upon a 5-h whole body exposure of guinea pigs and marmosets
to sarin vapor corresponds with the measurement of an internal dose by means of
fluoride-induced regeneration of sarin from phosphylated binding sites in plasma,
mostly BuChE. For guinea pigs the LOEL was observed at Ct = 0.010 +/- 0.002
mg/min/m(3), whereas a Ct of 0.04 +/- 0.01 mg/min/m(3) was established for the
LOEL in marmosets. These levels are several orders of magnitude lower than those 
based on classical measurement of depressed cholinesterase activities. At low
exposure levels of guinea pigs and marmosets (< or =1 microg/m(3)), a reasonable 
linearity was observed between exposure dose and internal dose. The data were
addressed in the light of the recently recommended occupational exposure limits
to sarin for workers without respiratory protection, which suggests that the
exposure limits should be reconsidered if the slightest inhibition of
cholinesterases should be prevented.

DOI: 10.1016/s0041-008x(03)00131-5 
PMID: 12791302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

