

2933. J Neurosci. 2003 May 15;23(10):4378-85.

Variable dopamine release probability and short-term plasticity between
functional domains of the primate striatum.

Cragg SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, UK.
stephanie.cragg@pharm.ox.ac.uk

Release of the neuromodulator dopamine (DA) is critical to the control of
locomotion, motivation, and reward. However, the probability of DA release is not
well understood. Current understanding of neurotransmitter release probability in
the CNS is limited to the conventional synaptic amino acid transmitters (e.g.,
glutamate and GABA). These fast neurotransmitters are released with a repertoire 
of probabilities according to synapse type, and these probabilities show
activity-dependent plasticity according to synapse use. Synapses for
neuromodulators such as DA, however, are designed for signaling that diverges
temporally and spatially from that for fast neurotransmitters: DA receptors are
exclusively metabotropic and at sites that extend to extrasynaptic locations and 
neighboring synapses. In this study, the release probability of DA was explored
in real time in limbicversus motor-associated functional domains of the striatum 
of a primate (marmoset; Callithrix jacchus) using fast-scan voltammetry at a
carbon-fiber microelectrode. We show that the probability of axonal DA release
varies with striatal domain. Furthermore, release probability exhibits a
short-term, activity-dependent plasticity that ranges from depression to
facilitation in motor-through limbic-associated regions, respectively. Rapid
plasticity does not result from metabotropic D2-like DA receptor activation or
ionotropic GABA(A) receptor effects but is dependent on Ca2+ availability. These 
data reveal that rapid dynamics in DA release probability will participate in the
transmission of the patterns and frequencies encoded by DA neuron action
potential discharge. Furthermore, the regional variation in these features
indicates that limbic-versus motor-associated DA neurons are permitted to
generate diverse DA signals in response to a given firing pattern.


PMCID: PMC6741072
PMID: 12764127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

