

2942. J Neurophysiol. 2003 Aug;90(2):930-7. Epub 2003 Apr 23.

The nature of V1 neural responses to 2D moving patterns depends on
receptive-field structure in the marmoset monkey.

Tinsley CJ(1), Webb BS, Barraclough NE, Vincent CJ, Parker A, Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham
NG7 2RD, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    J Neurophysiol. 2004 Aug;92(2):1263.

A plaid pattern is formed when two sinusoidal gratings of different orientations 
are added together. Previous work has shown that V1 neurons selectively encode
the direction and orientation of the component gratings in a moving plaid but not
the direction of the plaid itself (Movshon et al. 1985). We recorded the
responses of 49 direction-selective neurons to moving gratings and plaid patterns
in area V1 of the anesthetized marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus). The
responses of V1 neurons to rectangular patches of varying lengths and widths
containing gratings of optimal spatial frequency were used to measure size and
aspect ratio of the receptive-field subunits. We measured responses to plaid
patterns moving in different directions and graded the magnitude of the response 
to the direction of motion of the plaid and the response to the direction of
motion of the component gratings. We found significant correlations between
receptive-field structure and the type and strength of its response to moving
plaid patterns. The strength of pattern and component responses was significantly
correlated with the interrelated properties of direction tuning width (Spearman's
r = 0.82, P < 0.001), and receptive-field subunit aspect ratio (Spearman's r =
-0.79, P < 0.001). Neurons with broad direction tuning and short, wide
receptive-field subunits gave their greatest response when the plaid moved in
their preferred direction. Conversely, neurons with narrow direction tuning and
long, narrow receptive-field subunits gave their greatest responses when the
plaid moved in a direction such that one of its components moved in the preferred
direction.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00708.2002 
PMID: 12711710  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

