

2943. Brain Res. 2003 May 16;972(1-2):119-26.

Comparison of the neuroprotective effect of clomethiazole, AR-R15896AR and
NXY-059 in a primate model of stroke using histological and behavioural measures.

Marshall JW(1), Green AR, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK.
jwbm2@cus.cam.ac.uk

Three experimental neuroprotective agents (clomethiazole, AR-R15896AR and
NXY-059) have recently been tested in a primate model of acute ischaemic stroke. 
As the experimental techniques used in all three studies were similar and the
compounds were administered at clinically relevant doses, a comparative analysis 
of the functional benefits of these drug-treatments has now been performed.
Furthermore a more detailed histological analysis of the neuroprotection afforded
by the drugs has also been made. NXY-059 produced almost twice the degree of
neuroprotection than that seen following clomethiazole or AR-R15896AR. Protection
by NXY-059 was seen in measurements of damage to cortex and white matter.
Clomethiazole and AR-R15896AR provided less protection of cortex and white matter
than NXY-059. Conspicuously, AR-R15896AR was without effect in sub-cortical
regions. NXY-059 was the only compound to produce a major, statistically
significant improvement in the motor deficit induced by the stroke. All three
drugs also reduced the degree of spatial neglect 3 weeks after pMCAO, and 10
weeks later only NXY-059 still provided significant additional functional benefit
to the spontaneous improvement seen in stroked control animals not receiving
treatment. The overview of the behavioural effects and these new histological
findings suggest that NXY-059 was by far the most effective neuroprotective agent
of the three examined.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(03)02511-3 
PMID: 12711084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

