

2947. Exp Brain Res. 2003 May;150(1):19-24. Epub 2003 Mar 22.

Neurofilament protein expression in the geniculostriate pathway of a New World
monkey ( Callithrix jacchus).

Bourne JA(1), Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Biomedical Sciences, Monash University, PO
Box 13F, Victoria 3800, Australia. james.bourne@med.monash.edu.au

We examined the expression profile of non-phosphorylated neurofilament protein in
the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and striate cortex (V1) of a New
World simian, the marmoset monkey, using the monoclonal antibody SMI-32. The
overall distribution of neurofilament protein in the marmoset resembled that
previously described in Old World monkeys. While immunostained neurones were
observed throughout the LGN, there were clear laminar differences in terms of
both cellular and neuropil labelling. Neurones in the magnocellular layer cells
stained more densely than those in the parvocellular layers. The marmoset's
well-defined koniocellular layers showed an overall light stain of both neurones 
and neuropil. In V1, densely stained pyramidal cells and heavy neuropil label
were observed in the two sublayers that send projections to the middle temporal
area (MT): a supragranular band located in layer 3C (Brodmann's layer 4B) and an 
infragranular band located near the top of layer 6. More lightly stained, small
pyramidal cells were also found in layer 3Balpha. Accordingly, in both New World 
and Old World monkeys the expression of neurofilament protein is correlated with 
specific functional subdivisions of the geniculocortical pathway. In particular, 
projection neurones associated with fast-conducting pathways to the extrastriate 
'dorsal stream' appear to contain higher levels of this protein.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-003-1397-5 
PMID: 12698212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

