

2954. Eur J Neurosci. 2003 Mar;17(6):1313-8.

The pyramidal neuron in occipital, temporal and prefrontal cortex of the owl
monkey (Aotus trivirgatus): regional specialization in cell structure.

Elston GN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland,
Queensland, 4072, Australia. G.Elston@vthrc.uq.edu

Recent studies have revealed marked regional variation in pyramidal cell
morphology in primate cortex. In particular, pyramidal cells in human and macaque
prefrontal cortex (PFC) are considerably more spinous than those in other
cortical regions. PFC pyramidal cells in the New World marmoset monkey, however, 
are less spinous than those in man and macaques. Taken together, these data
suggest that the pyramidal cell has become more branched and more spinous during 
the evolution of PFC in only some primate lineages. This specialization may be of
fundamental importance in determining the cognitive styles of the different
species. However, these data are preliminary, with only one New World and two Old
World species having been studied. Moreover, the marmoset data were obtained from
different cases. In the present study we investigated PFC pyramidal cells in
another New World monkey, the owl monkey, to extend the basis for comparison. As 
in the New World marmoset monkey, prefrontal pyramidal cells in owl monkeys have 
relatively few spines. These species differences appear to reflect variation in
the extent to which PFC circuitry has become specialized during evolution. Highly
complex pyramidal cells in PFC appear not to have been a feature of a common
prosimian ancestor, but have evolved with the dramatic expansion of PFC in some
anthropoid lineages.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1460-9568.2003.02552.x 
PMID: 12670321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

