

2955. Brain Res. 2003 Apr 11;968(2):206-18.

Alterations in m-RNA expression for Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase and glutathione
peroxidase in the basal ganglia of MPTP-treated marmosets and patients with
Parkinson's disease.

Kunikowska G(1), Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Alterations occurring in the antioxidant enzymes, copper, zinc-dependent
superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) following
nigral dopaminergic denervation are unclear. We now report on the distribution
and levels of m-RNA for Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX in basal ganglia of normal and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets, and
in normal individuals and patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) using in situ
hybridization histochemistry and oligodeoxynucleotide (single-stranded DNA)
probes. Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX m-RNA was present throughout basal ganglia (nucleus
accumbens, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, substantia nigra) in the common
marmoset, with the highest levels being in substantia nigra (SN). Following MPTP 
induced nigral cell loss, Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA levels were decreased in all areas but 
the SNr, and particularly in SNc (71%, P<0.001). MPTP-treatment had no effect on 
GPX m-RNA expression in any area of basal ganglia. Cu,Zn-SOD and GPX m-RNA was
also present in the normal human SN. In PD, however, Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA was
significantly decreased (89%, P<0.005) in SNc, and there was a near-complete loss
of GPX m-RNA in both SNc (100%, P<0.005) and SNr (88%, P<0.005). The loss of
Cu,Zn-SOD m-RNA in SNc in MPTP-treated marmosets and patients with PD suggests
that it is primarily located in dopaminergic neuronal cell bodies. The loss of
GPX m-RNA in SNc in PD also suggests a localisation to dopaminergic cell bodies, 
but the similar change in SNr may indicate its presence in dopaminergic neurites.
In contrast, the absence of change in GPX m-RNA in MPTP-treated primates appears 
to rule out its presence in dopaminergic cells in this species, but this may only
be apparent and may reflect increased expression in glial cells following acute
toxin treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(03)02240-6 
PMID: 12663090  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

