

2957. Reprod Domest Anim. 2003 Apr;38(2):90-6.

In vitro development of marmoset monkey oocytes by pre-antral follicle culture.

Nayudu PL(1), Wu J, Michelmann HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Goettingen,
Germany. pnayudu@gwdg.de

A technique for in vitro maturation of oocytes from small ovarian follicles of
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) has been developed. We employed a two-step 
culture system for primary follicles (45-85 microm) and a one-step culture
technique for secondary follicles (>85 microm). The two-step technique started
with the culture of stromal tissue fragments for 2 days. Thereafter, mechanically
isolated follicles were transferred to a culture system where they attached to
the culture surface and grew for up to a further 12 days. Significant growth of
the small follicles and their oocytes was only achieved with gonadotrophins in
the medium. Oocytes with a mean diameter of 39 microm from follicles <85 microm
reached a mean diameter of 90 microm by the end of the two-step culture. After in
vitro maturation, 19% of oocytes from these follicles had progressed to the
germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD). Follicles between 85 and 170 microm in
diameter were isolated from the stroma and placed directly in the culture.
Oocytes from these follicles had a mean diameter of 64 microm. The maximum size
the oocytes reached in culture was related to the age of the females
(pre-pubertal females: 102 +/- 1.3 microm; adults: 96 +/- 1.4 microm).
Twenty-seven per cent of oocytes from pre-pubertal ovaries achieved GVBD and
nearly two-thirds of these progressed to polar body stage. From adult ovaries,
only 12% progressed to GVBD and one-third of these to polar body stage. It is
possible to develop mature oocytes in vitro from marmoset secondary pre-antral
follicles (>85 microm). From primary follicles, although near full size oocytes
were developed, maturation capacity was incomplete.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1439-0531.2003.00398.x 
PMID: 12654018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

