

296. Mol Brain. 2020 Jun 26;13(1):98. doi: 10.1186/s13041-020-00639-9.

Effects of interferon-alpha on hippocampal neurogenesis and behavior in common
marmosets.

Kaneko N(1)(2), Nakamura S(3), Sawamoto K(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Neurobiology, Institute of Brain 
Science, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 1 Kawasumi, 
Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 467-8601, Japan.
naokoka@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp.
(2)Division of Neural Development and Regeneration, National Institute for
Physiological Sciences, 5-1 Higashiyama, Myodaiji, Okazaki, Aichi, 444-8787,
Japan. naokoka@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Neurobiology, Institute of Brain 
Science, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 1 Kawasumi, 
Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 467-8601, Japan.
(4)Department of Developmental and Regenerative Neurobiology, Institute of Brain 
Science, Nagoya City University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 1 Kawasumi, 
Mizuho-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, 467-8601, Japan.
sawamoto@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp.
(5)Division of Neural Development and Regeneration, National Institute for
Physiological Sciences, 5-1 Higashiyama, Myodaiji, Okazaki, Aichi, 444-8787,
Japan. sawamoto@med.nagoya-cu.ac.jp.

In many mammalian species, the production of new neurons in the hippocampal
dentate gyrus continues throughout life. Previous studies using rodents suggest
that adult-born neurons are involved in memory and cognition tasks and mood
regulation. Interferon-alpha (IFNα), a proinflammatory cytokine used for the
treatment of chronic viral hepatitis and malignancies, frequently causes
depressive symptoms in patients and animals, including non-human primates. We
have previously demonstrated that chronic IFNα treatment decreases hippocampal
neurogenesis in mice. Here, we investigated the effects of four-week human
pegylated IFNα treatment on hippocampal neurogenesis and behavior in common
marmosets. Continuous monitoring of voluntary activity levels using an actigraphy
device suggested that adaptive ability is impaired in IFNα-treated animals.
Analyses of BrdU-labeled cells expressing a marker for immature or mature neurons
revealed a significant reduction in the number of new neurons in the hippocampus 
of IFNα-treated animals. These data indicate that chronic human IFNα treatment
causes behavioral changes and a decrease in hippocampal neurogenesis in common
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1186/s13041-020-00639-9 
PMCID: PMC7318457
PMID: 32590991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

