

2961. FASEB J. 2003 May;17(8):929-31. Epub 2003 Mar 5.

Microarray analysis of nonhuman primates: validation of experimental models in
neurological disorders.

Marvanová M(1), Ménager J, Bezard E, Bontrop RE, Pradier L, Wong G.

Author information: 
(1)Functional Genomics and Bioinformatics Laboratory, Department of Neurobiology,
A. I. Virtanen Institute, University of Kuopio, 70211 Kuopio, Finland.

Nonhuman primates (NHPs) have provided robust experimental animal models for many
human-related diseases due to their similar physiologies. Nonetheless, profound
differences remain in the acquisition, progression, and outcome of important
diseases such as AIDS and Alzheimer's, for which the underlying basis remains
obscure. We explored the utility of human high-density oligonucleotide arrays to 
survey the transcription profile of NHP genomes. Total RNA from prefrontal
cortices of human (Homo sapiens), common chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes),
cynomolgous macaque (Macaca fascicularis), and common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) was labeled and hybridized to Affymetrix U95A GeneChip probe arrays.
Corresponding data obtained previously from common chimpanzee and orangutan
(Pongo pygmaeus) were added for comparison. Qualitative (present or not detected)
and quantitative (expression level) analysis indicated that many genes known to
be involved in human neurological disorders were present and regulated in NHPs. A
gene involved in dopamine metabolism (catechol-O-methyltransferase) was absent in
macaque and marmoset. Glutamate receptor 2 was up-regulated, and
transcription-associated genes were down-regulated in NHPs compared with humans. 
We demonstrate that transcript profiling of NHPs could provide comparative
genomic data to validate and better focus experimental animal models of human
neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.02-0681fje 
PMID: 12626435  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

