

2964. J Neurophysiol. 2003 Apr;89(4):2194-207. Epub 2002 Dec 11.

Sensory-motor interaction in the primate auditory cortex during self-initiated
vocalizations.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Little is known about sensory-motor interaction in the auditory cortex of
primates at the level of single neurons and its role in supporting vocal
communication. The present study investigated single-unit activities in the
auditory cortex of a vocal primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
during self-initiated vocalizations. We found that 1) self-initiated
vocalizations resulted in suppression of neural discharges in a majority of
auditory cortical neurons. The vocalization-induced inhibition suppressed both
spontaneous and stimulus-driven discharges. Suppressed units responded poorly to 
external acoustic stimuli during vocalization. 2) Vocalization-induced
suppression began several hundred milliseconds prior to the onset of
vocalization. 3) The suppression of cortical discharges reduced neural firings to
below the rates expected from a unit's rate-level function, adjusted for known
subcortical attenuation, and therefore was likely not entirely caused by
subcortical attenuation mechanisms. 4) A smaller population of auditory cortical 
neurons showed increased discharges during self-initiated vocalizations. This
vocalization-related excitation began after the onset of vocalization and is
likely the result of acoustic feedback. Units showing this excitation responded
nearly normally to external stimuli during vocalization. Based on these findings,
we propose that the suppression of auditory cortical neurons, possibly
originating from cortical vocal production centers, acts to increase the dynamic 
range of cortical responses to vocalization feedback for self monitoring. The
excitatory responses, on the other hand, likely play a role in maintaining
hearing sensitivity to the external acoustic environment during vocalization.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00627.2002 
PMID: 12612021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

