

2966. Biol Reprod. 2003 Jun;68(6):2092-9. Epub 2003 Jan 22.

Characterization of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 7 in reproductive
tissues of the marmoset monkey.

Husen B(1), Adamski J, Brüns A, Deluca D, Fuhrmann K, Möller G, Schwabe I,
Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, 37077 Göttingen,
Germany.

In contrast to the known rodent enzymes, the physiological significance of
17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 7 (17HSD7) and its presumed function in 
reproductive biology is not well understood in primates. As a first step, we
recently cloned the complete coding regions of human and marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) 17HSD7 (cj17HSD7). In the present work the complete cDNA of 
marmoset 17HSD1 (cj17HSD1), including the proximal promoter region, and a partial
sequence of marmoset aromatase (cjARO) were sequenced in order to compare the
expression of these estradiol synthesizing enzymes with that of 17HSD7 in a
primate model and to identify tissues where 17HSD7 might participate in the
pathway of estradiol synthesis. The gene structures of cj17HSD1 and cj17HSD7 were
determined and proved to be very similar to the human orthologues. Northern
hybridization showed that cjARO mRNA seems to be coexpressed preferably with
cj17HSD1 in placenta, whereas in other tissues it is expressed in parallel only
with cj17HSD7. Especially in corpora lutea, the cj17HSD7 transcript is detectable
throughout the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle and increases during pregnancy, 
in parallel with the transcript of aromatase. Results were confirmed by
immunoblots and immunohistochemistry using new polyclonal antisera directed
against cj17HSD7 and cjARO protein. The enzymatic conversion of estrone to
estradiol was assessed in marmoset corpora lutea. The pattern of coexpression
with aromatase supports the hypothesis that luteal 17HSD7 complements placental
17HSD1, ensuring continued estradiol synthesis throughout pregnancy in primates.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod.102.012476 
PMID: 12606385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

