

2969. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2003 Mar 4;100(5):2884-9. Epub 2003 Feb 24.

Nigrostriatal alpha-synucleinopathy induced by viral vector-mediated
overexpression of human alpha-synuclein: a new primate model of Parkinson's
disease.

Kirik D(1), Annett LE, Burger C, Muzyczka N, Mandel RJ, Bj√∂rklund A.

Author information: 
(1)Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Department of Physiological Sciences, Division
of Neurobiology, Lund University, BMC A11, 221 84 Lund, Sweden.
deniz.kirik@mphy.lu.se

We used a high-titer recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector to express 
WT or mutant human alpha-synuclein in the substantia nigra of adult marmosets.
The alpha-synuclein protein was expressed in 90-95% of all nigral dopamine
neurons and distributed by anterograde transport throughout their axonal and
dendritic projections. The transduced neurons developed severe neuronal
pathology, including alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic inclusions and granular
deposits; swollen, dystrophic, and fragmented neuritis; and shrunken and
pyknotic, densely alpha-synuclein-positive perikarya. By 16 wk posttransduction, 
30-60% of the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons were lost, and the tyrosine
hydroxylase-positive innervation of the caudate nucleus and putamen was reduced
to a similar extent. The rAAV-alpha-synuclein-treated monkeys developed a type of
motor impairment, i.e., head position bias, compatible with this magnitude of
nigrostriatal damage. rAAV vector-mediated alpha-synuclein gene transfer provides
a transgenic primate model of nigrostriatal alpha-synucleinopathy that is of
particular interest because it develops slowly over time, like human Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and expresses neuropathological features (alpha-synuclein-positive 
inclusions and dystrophic neurites, in particular) that are similar to those seen
in idiopathic PD. This model offers new opportunities for the study of
pathogenetic mechanisms and exploration of new therapeutic targets of particular 
relevance to human PD.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0536383100 
PMCID: PMC151435
PMID: 12601150  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

