

2970. Toxicol Pathol. 2003 Jan-Feb;31 Suppl:123-7.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model in toxicology.

Zühlke U(1), Weinbauer G.

Author information: 
(1)Covance Laboratories GmbH, 48163 Münster, Germany.

The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is the smallest nonhuman primate
commonly used in biomedical research. Marmoset characteristics and propensities
have enabled them to be used in a wide range of research as a model of human
disease, physiology, drug metabolism, general toxicology, and reproductive
biology. This paper provides a general overview of the marmoset with special
emphasis on the benefits and disadvantages of this species as a model for
inclusion in preclinical drug development programmes. In view of its small size
in comparison with other nonrodent species marmosets have become of value for
toxicology studies with biotechnology products where compound supply is limited. 
In general toxicology studies, marmosets have been successfully used to meet
regulatory endpoints also for specific investigatory purposes. The widespread use
of this species has allowed extensive background information to become available 
and a summary of the most frequently measured parameters are presented. Marmosets
apparently represent an interesting animal model for comparative research on
primate reproductive physiology. However, several basic aspects of reproductive
processes exhibit cardinal discrepancies to those described for macaques and
human. Thus, from the viewpoint of reproductive toxicology, the relevance of the 
marmoset primate model for human reproduction remains unclear to date and further
research is obviously needed. Given our current knowledge of marmoset
reproductive features, the use of this animal model cannot be recommended for
reproductive toxicology assessment.

DOI: 10.1080/01926230390175002 
PMID: 12597440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

