

2973. Contraception. 2003 Feb;67(2):151-60.

Antifertility effect of an octapeptide, a fragment of FSH binding inhibitor, in
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Wadia P(1), Kholkute S, Nandedkar T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, National Institute for Research in Reproductive
Health, J M Street, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.

The follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) binding inhibitor (FSHBI) has been
identified as one of the factors present in follicular fluid exerting
autocrine/paracrine effects on FSH actions in the ovary. Our group has isolated
FSHBI from human ovarian follicular fluid and deduced its partial amino acid
sequence from the N-terminal region. A synthetic peptide corresponding to this
sequence also demonstrated FSH binding inhibitory activity in vitro. The
objective of the present study was to elucidate the effect of the octapeptide on 
ovarian cyclicity and pregnancy in the common marmoset. For the study, three
groups of postpartum marmosets were treated with the octapeptide during the
follicular phase. Administration of the octapeptide from days 6-10 postpartum
(pp) predominantly induced luteal insufficiency in two of seven and two of five
marmosets at a dose of 100 microg/day (group 1) and 300 microg/day (group 2),
respectively. This was confirmed by the presence of small regressing corpora
lutea on day 13 pp. Pregnancy was terminated prematurely in one animal from each 
of these groups. The treatment impaired fertility by 43% and 60% in the marmosets
of groups 1 and 2, respectively. In view of the fact that FSH levels peak on day 
2 and day 6 of the follicular phase in marmosets, a third group was administered 
200 microg/day octapeptide from days 1-8 pp. The treatment induced luteal
insufficiency in one out of four marmosets, while premature termination of
pregnancy occurred in two other marmosets of this group, demonstrating a 75%
effect on pregnancy. Thus, treatment of marmosets with the octapeptide, a
fragment of the FSHBI, predominantly induced luteal insufficiency as well as
resorption of the fetus leading to impairment of fertility.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(02)00458-4 
PMID: 12586325  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

