

2978. Genome Res. 2003 Feb;13(2):159-72.

Genomic sequence and transcriptional profile of the boundary between
pericentromeric satellites and genes on human chromosome arm 10p.

Guy J(1), Hearn T, Crosier M, Mudge J, Viggiano L, Koczan D, Thiesen HJ, Bailey
JA, Horvath JE, Eichler EE, Earthrowl ME, Deloukas P, French L, Rogers J, Bentley
D, Jackson MS.

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Human Genetics, The International Centre for Life, University
of Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 3BZ, UK.

Contiguous finished sequence from highly duplicated pericentromeric regions of
human chromosomes is needed if we are to understand the role of pericentromeric
instability in disease, and in gene and karyotype evolution. Here, we have
constructed a BAC contig spanning the transition from pericentromeric satellites 
to genes on the short arm of human chromosome 10, and used this to generate 1.4
Mb of finished genomic sequence. Combining RT-PCR, in silico gene prediction, and
paralogy analysis, we can identify two domains within the sequence. The proximal 
600 kb consists of satellite-rich pericentromerically duplicated DNA which is
transcript poor, containing only three unspliced transcripts. In contrast, the
distal 850 kb contains four known genes (ZNF248, ZNF25, ZNF33A, and ZNF37A) and
up to 32 additional transcripts of unknown function. This distal region also
contains seven out of the eight intrachromosomal duplications within the
sequence, including the p arm copy of the approximately 250-kb duplication which 
gave rise to ZNF33A and ZNF33B. By sequencing orthologs of the duplicated ZNF33
genes we have established that ZNF33A has diverged significantly at residues
critical for DNA binding but ZNF33B has not, indicating that ZNF33B has remained 
constrained by selection for ancestral gene function. These results provide
further evidence of gene formation within intrachromosomal duplications, but
indicate that recent interchromosomal duplications at this centromere have
involved transcriptionally inert, satellite rich DNA, which is likely to be
heterochromatic. This suggests that any novel gene structures formed by these
interchromosomal events would require relocation to a more open chromatin
environment to be expressed.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.644503 
PMCID: PMC420363
PMID: 12566394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

