

2980. Anal Sci. 2003 Jan;19(1):67-71.

In vivo imaging of brain dopaminergic neurotransmission system in small animals
with high-resolution single photon emission computed tomography.

Saji H(1), Iida Y, Kawashima H, Ogawa M, Kitamura Y, Mukai T, Shimazu S, Yoneda
F.

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyoto University, Yoshida,
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. hsaji@pharm.kyoto-u.ac.jp

High-resolution single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) provides a
unique capability to image the biodistribution of radiolabeled molecules in small
laboratory animals. Thus, we applied the high-resolution SPECT to in vivo imaging
of the brain dopaminergic neurotransmission system in common marmosets using two 
radiolabeled ligands, [123I]2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane
(beta-CIT) as a dopamine transporter (DAT) ligand and [123I]iodobenzamide (IBZM) 
as a dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) ligand. Specific images of the striatum, a region
with a high density of dopaminergic synapses, were obtained at 240 min and 60 min
after injection of [123I]beta-CIT and [123I]IBZM, respectively. Furthermore, a
significantly low accumulation of [123I]beta-CIT in the striatum was observed in 
MPTP-treated animals compared with results for a control group, and a similar
accumulation in the control group was observed with the pretreatment of deprenyl 
in the MPTP-treated animals. However, the striatal accumulation of [123I]IBZM
showed no changes among the control, MPTP-treated, and deprenyl-MPTP-treated
groups. These SPECT imaging results agreed well with those of DA concentration
and motor behavior. Since MPTP destroys nigrostriatal dopamine nerves and
produces irreversible neurodegeneration associated with Parkinsonian syndrome,
SPECT imaging data in this study demonstrated that deprenyl shows its
neuroprotective effect on Parkinsonism by protecting against the destruction of
presynaptic dopamine neurons.

DOI: 10.2116/analsci.19.67 
PMID: 12558026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

