

2982. Endocrinology. 2003 Feb;144(2):423-36.

A transcriptionally active human type II gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor 
gene homolog overlaps two genes in the antisense orientation on chromosome 1q.12.

Morgan K(1), Conklin D, Pawson AJ, Sellar R, Ott TR, Millar RP.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, University of
Edinburgh Academic Centre, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, United Kingdom.
k.morgan@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

GnRH-II peptide hormone exhibits complete sequence conservation across vertebrate
species, including man. Type-II GnRH receptor genes have been characterized
recently in nonhuman primates, but the human receptor gene homolog contains a
frameshift, a premature stop codon (UGA), and a 3' overlap of the RBM8A gene on
chromosome 1q.12. A retrotransposed pseudogene, RBM8B, retains partial receptor
sequence. In this study, bioinformatics show that the human receptor gene
promoter overlaps the peroxisomal protein 11-beta gene promoter and the premature
UGA is positionally conserved in chimpanzee. A CGA [arginine (Arg)] occurs in
porcine DNA, but UGA is shifted one codon to the 5' direction in bovine DNA,
suggesting independent evolution of premature stop codons. In contrast to
marmoset tissue RNA, exon- and strand-specific probes are required to distinguish
differently spliced human receptor gene transcripts in cell lines (HP75, IMR-32).
RBM8B is not transcribed. Sequencing of cDNAs for spliced receptor mRNAs showed
no evidence for alteration of the premature UGA by RNA editing, but alternative
splicing circumvents the frameshift to encode a two-membrane-domain protein
before this UGA. A stem-loop motif resembling a selenocysteine insertion sequence
and a potential alternative translation initiation site might enable expression
of further proteins involved in interactions within the GnRH system.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2002-220622 
PMID: 12538601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

