

2987. Am J Primatol. 2003 Jan;59(1):21-8.

Degree of social contact affects the emission of food calls in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Vitale A(1), Zanzoni M, Queyras A, Chiarotti F.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Comparative Psychology, Laboratorio di Fisiopatologia di Organo e
di Sistema, Istituto Superiore di Sanit√†, Rome, Italy. vitale@iss.it

The aim of this study was to investigate whether the emission of food calls in
common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) is influenced by different social contexts.
Food calls are emitted by this species only in the presence of preferred food. If
these calls have any communicative function, it may be that individuals produce
food calls in order to call family mates toward the food source. If this is the
case, the number of calls produced should vary in accordance with the number of
family mates present at the moment of the discovery of the food, i.e., the fewer 
family mates nearby, the more food calls are emitted. This hypothesis was tested 
with five pairs of common marmosets, by recording the number of food calls
emitted in four experimental conditions: 1). isolation: completely isolated from 
the family mates; 2). visual isolation: separated by a wooden panel from the
family mates; 3). visual contact: separated by a wire-mesh from the family mates;
and 4). physical interaction: together with the family mates. The results show
that the proportion of intervals during which food calls were produced by the
pairs was significantly different in the four experimental conditions. It
decreased from the isolation and visual isolation condition, through the visual
contact condition, reaching the lowest value in the physical interaction
condition. The variation observed in the proportion of intervals during which
food calls were emitted, in relation to different social contexts, is an
indication in favor of the communicative function of this vocalization.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.10060 
PMID: 12526036  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

