

2988. Eur J Pharmacol. 2003 Jan 17;459(2-3):231-7.

Motor effects of a dopamine stabilizer (GMC1111) in primate models of Parkinson
and hemiparkinsonism.

Klintenberg R(1), Arts J, Jongsma M, Wikström H, Gunne L, Andrén PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University, PO Box 591,
Biomedicum, SE-75124, Uppsala, Sweden.

The effects on motor behavior of a new potential dopamine stabilizer:
2-amino-6-(N,N-di-n-propylamino)thiazolo[4,5-f]indan (GMC1111) were investigated 
in common marmosets with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions within the median forebrain
bundle (12 unilateral, 6 bilateral). GMC1111 was administered orally or
subcutaneously (s.c.) to unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned monkeys, either 
alone or together with s.c. injections of apomorphine (0.2 mg/kg) and the effect 
on rotational behavior was examined. GMC1111 (0.03-3.0 mg/kg) alone, orally or
s.c., did not induce rotational behavior. When apomorphine and GMC1111 were
injected simultaneously, rotations were nearly abolished in three monkeys with a 
baseline apomorphine-induced rotation rate below 13/min, whereas GMC1111 did not 
modify the rotations in three high-rotating animals (>17/min). Oral
administration of GMC1111 (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg) abolished the apomorphine-induced
rotations in another six unilaterally dopamine-denervated monkeys, indicating a
good oral bioavailability. A low dose of GMC1111 (0.3 mg/kg) administered s.c. to
marmosets with bilateral nigrostriatal lesions produced a reduction of Parkinson 
symptoms of approximately the same degree as with levodopa/benserazide (15/3.75
mg/kg), while higher doses of GMC1111 were less effective. When
levodopa/benserazide was administered together with various doses of GMC1111
(0.3-3.0 mg/kg), the levodopa-induced peak-dose dyskinesias were reduced with the
highest dose of GMC1111 (3 mg/kg). Taken together, GMC1111 modifies dopaminergic 
activity in a normalizing direction. Parkinson symptoms, as well as
levodopa-induced dyskinesias are both reduced. This suggests the arrival of
another member of the new dopamine stabilizer family.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(02)02817-0 
PMID: 12524151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

