

2989. J Med Primatol. 2002 Dec;31(6):350-5.

Congenitally caused fused labia in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Isachenko EF(1), Nayudu PL, Isachenko VV, Nawroth F, Michelmann HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center Goettingen, Germany.
jeniaisachenko@yahoo.de

In this paper, the occurrence of an external genital abnormality in female
marmoset monkeys (fused labia) is discussed. This malformation was detected, for 
the first time, in a group of animals at the German Primate Center (GPC),
Goettingen. The malformed vulva was completely sealed except for an opening of
1.5-2.5 mm around the urethra sufficient for urination. Because of this defect
the animals were not able to copulate. As a consequence, the affected females
were functionally infertile although they had a normal genital tract and a
regular cycle. This vulvar abnormality was found in 12 females, offspring of 10
pairs in which either one or both came to the German Primate Center from two
genetically related colonies in Munich, Germany, and one colony in Basel,
Switzerland. The abnormality appeared to be recessive and inheritable from either
parent. In pairs in which both animals were from one of the mentioned colonies,
45% of the female offspring were affected. In pairs where only one partner came
from these colonies, 26% of female offspring had the malformation. These results 
indicate that avoidance of inbreeding, which is frequently performed in primate
colonies, may reduce, but not eliminate the expression of abnormalities of
genetic origin. Therefore selective breeding is required, and, in colonies where 
these recessive mutations are widespread, the development of genetic screening
tests would be advantageous.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0684.2002.t01-1-02002.x 
PMID: 12519214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

