

299. Cell Rep. 2020 Jun 23;31(12):107799. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.107799.

Recently Evolved Enhancers Emerge with High Interindividual Variability and Less 
Frequently Associate with Disease.

Castelijns B(1), Baak ML(1), Geeven G(1), Vermunt MW(1), Wiggers CRM(2),
Timpanaro IS(1), Kondova I(3), de Laat W(1), Creyghton MP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the
Netherlands.
(2)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the
Netherlands; Department of Pediatric Hematology, University Medical Center
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(3)Biomedical Primate Research Center, Lange Kleiweg 161, 2288GJ Rijswijk, the
Netherlands.
(4)Hubrecht Institute-KNAW & University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the
Netherlands; Erasmus University Medical Center, Department of Developmental
Biology, Wytemaweg 80, 3015 CN Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Electronic address:
m.creyghton@erasmusmc.nl.

Mutations in non-coding regulatory DNA such as enhancers underlie a wide variety 
of diseases including developmental disorders and cancer. As enhancers rapidly
evolve, understanding their function and configuration in non-human disease
models can have important clinical applications. Here, we analyze enhancer
configurations in tissues isolated from the common marmoset, a widely used
primate model for human disease. Integrating these data with human and mouse
data, we find that enhancers containing trait-associated variants are
preferentially conserved. In contrast, most human-specific enhancers are highly
variable between individuals, with a subset failing to contact promoters. These
are located further away from genes and more often reside in inactive
B-compartments. Our data show that enhancers typically emerge as instable
elements with minimal biological impact prior to their integration in a
transcriptional program. Furthermore, our data provide insight into which trait
variations in enhancers can be faithfully modeled using the common marmoset.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.107799 
PMID: 32579926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Interests The authors declare no
competing interests.

