

3002. Neuroscience. 2002;115(4):1323-33.

Characterization of calbindin-positive cones in primates.

Chiquet C(1), Dkhissi-Benyahya O, Chounlamountri N, Szel A, Degrip WJ, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U371, Cerveau et Vision, Unité 371, 18 avenue du Doyen Lépine, 69675
Cedex, Bron, France.

The aim of this study is to characterize calbindin-positive photoreceptors and
their opsin content in the retina of nocturnal prosimians (Microcebus murinus),
New World monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), Old World monkeys (Macaca fascicularis), 
and humans. To identify the calbindin and opsin content of cones, combined
multiple labeling with different fluorescent probes, antibodies directed against 
calbindin, short, and mid-long wavelength opsins, and lectin peanut agglutinin
cytochemistry were used. With the exception of Microcebus, calbindin is present
in the cones of all primates but is absent from rods. The distribution of
calbindin is similar in human and macaque cones, with dense label in the inner
segment, cell body, axon and cone pedicle. Cones in marmoset also show dense
staining in the cell body, axon and pedicle but only light label in the inner
segment. Primate cone outer segments do not contain calbindin. In the primates
studied, three patterns of calbindin and opsin localization are observed. In
macaque and marmoset all short and mid-long wavelength cones contain calbindin.
In humans, all mid-long wavelength cones contain calbindin whereas all short
wavelength cones are devoid of calbindin as confirmed by confocal microscopy. In 
the nocturnal prosimian Microcebus none of the mid-long or short wavelength cones
contain calbindin. In addition to primates, calbindin is absent in cones of other
nocturnal species but is present in cones of diurnal species suggesting a
difference in the role of calbindin possibly related to the adaptational states
or other photoreceptor properties.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00327-5 
PMID: 12453500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

