

3004. J Immunol. 2002 Dec 1;169(11):6554-63.

Prevention of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in common marmosets using
an anti-IL-12p40 monoclonal antibody.

Brok HP(1), van Meurs M, Blezer E, Schantz A, Peritt D, Treacy G, Laman JD, Bauer
J, 't Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Center, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model in the common marmoset 
approximates recognized features of the human disease multiple sclerosis (MS)
with regard to its clinical presentation as well as neuropathological and
radiological aspects of the lesions in brain and spinal cord. IL-12 is a
proinflammatory cytokine that is produced by APC and promotes differentiation of 
Th1 effector cells. IL-12 is produced in the developing lesions of patients with 
MS as well as in EAE-affected animals. Previously it was shown that interference 
in IL-12 pathways effectively prevents EAE in rodents. In this study we report
that in vivo neutralization of IL-12p40 using a novel Ab has beneficial effects
in the myelin-induced EAE model in common marmosets. The Ab was injected i.v. at 
7-day intervals starting well after immunization (day 14) and was continued until
the end of the study (day 86). Stable levels of the Ab were measured 3 days after
each injection throughout the study period. During this period anti-Ab responses 
could not be detected. We demonstrate that anti-IL-12p40 treatment has a
protective effect on the neurological dysfunction as well as on neuropathological
changes normally observed in the brain and spinal cord of EAE-affected
individuals.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.169.11.6554 
PMID: 12444167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

