

3005. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Dec 16;454(3):310-9.

Few intrinsic connections cross the hand-face border of area 3b of New World
monkeys.

Fang PC(1), Jain N, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37203,
USA.

After long-standing loss of afferents from the hand, the hand representation in
area 3b of the somatosensory cortex of monkeys becomes responsive to touch on the
face. Because the reactivation of deprived hand cortex by the face inputs could
depend on axonal connections across the hand-face border, we determined the
extent of such connections in New World marmosets, owl monkeys, and squirrel
monkeys. Small injections of anatomic tracers were placed in the hand or the face
representations after these representations were identified by microelectrode
recordings. The positions of retrogradely labeled neurons were plotted in
processed brain sections cut parallel to the brain surface, and their locations
were related to anatomic isomorphs of the hand and face representations revealed 
in adjacent brain sections stained for myelin. In these sections, the hand-face
border was clearly visualized as a myelin-poor septum. The intrinsic connections 
of area 3b labeled by injections in either the hand or face representations were 
almost completely confined to their respective representation, and very few
neurons projected across the border. In addition, neurons in the somatosensory
thalamus labeled by injections in either face or hand representations were
confined to either VPM, representing the face, or the hand subnucleus of VPL.
Thus the reactivation of hand cortex by face stimulation does not depend on a
previously existing network of intrinsic cortical connections across the
hand-face border, or mismatched thalamocortical projections.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10433 
PMID: 12442321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

