

3006. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2002 Dec;303(3):952-8.

Dopamine, but not norepinephrine or serotonin, reuptake inhibition reverses motor
deficits in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated primates.

Hansard MJ(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Cheetham SC, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's, and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

Monoamine reuptake inhibitors that do not discriminate between the transporters
for dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) 
can reverse locomotor deficits and motor disability in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets. DA 
reuptake inhibition is presumed to be primarily responsible, but the role played 
by inhibition of NE and 5-HT reuptake is unknown. We now evaluate the efficacy of
a range of monoamine reuptake inhibitors either alone or in combination in
MPTP-treated common marmosets to determine the actions required for effective
antiparkinsonian activity. Monoamine reuptake inhibitors not discriminating
between the DA, NE, and 5-HT transporters
[1-[1-(3,4-dichlororphenyl)cyclobutyl]-2-(3-diaminethylaminopropylthio)ethanone
monocitrate (BTS 74 398) and nomifensine] reversed locomotor deficits and motor
disability in MPTP-treated marmosets but bupropion was without effect. The
selective DA reuptake inhibitor
1-(2-(bis-(4-fluorophenyl)-methoxy)ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl) piperazine)
dihydrochloride (GBR 12909) also reversed these motor deficits. The relative
efficacy of the compounds (BTS 74 398 > GBR 12909 > nomifensine >> bupropion)
paralleled their potency in inhibiting DA uptake in vitro and in vivo. In
contrast, the selective NE reuptake inhibitor nisoxetine and the 5-HT reuptake
inhibitor sertraline administered alone failed to improve motor function and
tended to worsen the deficits. Coadministration of nisoxetine attenuated the
improvement in motor deficits produced by GBR 12909. Coadministration of
sertraline also abolished the reversal of motor deficits produced by GBR 12909.
Coadministration of both sertraline and nisoxetine similarly abolished the
improvement of motor deficits produced by GBR 12909. Molecules possessing potent 
DA reuptake inhibitory activity may be useful in the treatment of the motor
symptoms of Parkinson's disease. In contrast, there seems to be no role for NE or
5-HT reuptake inhibitors, and they may impair antiparkinsonian activity mediated 
through dopaminergic mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.102.039743 
PMID: 12438514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

