

3014. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Nov 12;99(23):15036-41. Epub 2002 Oct 30.

Glycoprotein gp110 of Epstein-Barr virus determines viral tropism and efficiency 
of infection.

Neuhierl B(1), Feederle R, Hammerschmidt W, Delecluse HJ.

Author information: 
(1)GSF-National Research Centre for Environment and Health, Department of Gene
Vectors, Marchioninistrasse 25, D-81377 Munich, Germany.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome has been detected in lymphomas and in tumors 
of epithelial or mesenchymal origin such as nasopharyngeal carcinoma or
leiomyosarcoma. Thus, there is little doubt that EBV can infect cells of numerous
lineages in vivo, in contrast to its in vitro infectious spectrum, which appears 
restricted predominantly to B lymphocytes. We show here that the EBV BALF4 gene
product, the glycoprotein gp110, dramatically enhances the ability of EBV to
infect human cells. gp110(high) viruses were up to 100 times more efficient than 
their gp110(low) counterparts in infecting lymphoid or epithelial cells. In
addition, gp110(high) viruses infected the carcinoma cell line HeLa and the T
cell lymphoma cell line Molt-4, both previously thought to be refractory to EBV
infection. Analysis of several virus isolates showed that the amount of BALF4
present within mature virions markedly differed among these strains. In some
strains, gp110 was found expressed during lytic replication not only at the
nuclear but also at the cellular membrane. Heterologous expression of gp110
during the virus lytic phase neither altered virus concentration nor affected
virus binding to cells. It appears that gp110 plays a crucial role after the
virus has adhered to its cellular target. gp110 constitutes an important
virulence factor that determines infection of non-B cells by EBV. Therefore, the 
use of gp110(high) viruses will help to determine the range of the target cells
of EBV beyond B lymphocytes and provide a useful in vitro model to assess the
oncogenic potential of EBV in these cells.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.232381299 
PMCID: PMC137540
PMID: 12409611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

