

3018. Cereb Cortex. 2002 Nov;12(11):1132-45.

Physiological responses of New World monkey V1 neurons to stimuli defined by
coherent motion.

Bourne JA(1), Tweedale R, Rosa MG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.

We studied the responses of neurons in area V1 of marmosets to visual stimuli
that moved against dynamic textured backgrounds. The stimuli were defined either 
by a first-order cue ('solid' bars, which were either darker or lighter than the 
background) or by a second-order cue ('camouflaged' bars, defined only by
coherent motion). Forty-two per cent of the neurons demonstrated a similar
selectivity for the direction of motion of the solid and camouflaged bars,
thereby characterizing a population of cue-invariant (CI) cells. The other cells 
either showed different selectivity to the movement of solid and camouflaged bars
(non-cue-invariant, or NCI cells), or responded equally well to movement in all
directions. CI neurons, which were rare in layer 4, tended to have larger
receptive fields and to be more strongly direction selective than NCI cells.
Although V1 neurons tended to show maximal responses to camouflaged bars that
were longer than the 'optimal' solid bars, many CI neurons preferred first- and
second-order stimuli of similar lengths. Finally, the activity evoked by the
camouflaged bars was delayed in relation to that evoked by solid bars. These
results demonstrate that motion CI responses are relatively common in primate V1,
especially among a population of strongly direction-selective neurons. They also 
indicate that this response property may depend on feedback from extrastriate
areas, or on complex intrinsic interactions within V1.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/12.11.1132 
PMID: 12379602  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

