

302. Chronobiol Int. 2020 Jul;37(7):980-992. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2020.1773495. Epub 
2020 Jun 23.

Aging-related changes on social synchronization of circadian activity rhythm in a
diurnal primate (Callithrix jacchus).

Gonçalves FB(1), Gonçalves BSB(2), Cavalcante JS(3), Azevedo CVM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Escola Multicampi de Ciências Médicas do Rio Grande do Norte, Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Caicó, RN, Brazil.
(2)Escola de Artes, Ciências e Humanidades, Universidade de São Paulo , São
Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Estudos Neuroquímicos, Departamento de Fisiologia e
Comportamento, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal, RN, Brazil.
(4)Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia e Comportamento,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal, RN, Brazil.

The input of environmental time cues and expression of circadian activity rhythms
may change with aging. Among nonphotic zeitgebers, social cues from conspecific
vocalizations may contribute to the stability and survival of individuals of
social species, such as nonhuman primates. We evaluated aging-related changes on 
social synchronization of the circadian activity rhythm (CAR) in a social diurnal
primate, the common marmoset. The activity of 18 male marmosets was recorded by
actiwatches in two conditions. (1) Experimental - 4 young adult (5 ± 2 yrs of
age) and 4 older (10 ± 2 yrs of age) animals maintained under LD 12/12 h and LL
in a room with full insulation for light but only partial insulation for sound
from vocalizations of conspecifics maintained outdoors in the colony; and (2)
Control - 10 young adult animals maintained outdoors in the colony (5 animals as 
a control per age group). In LL, the CAR of young adults showed more stable
synchronization with controls. Among the aged marmosets, two free-ran with
τ > 24 h, whereas the other two showed relative coordination during the first
30 days in LL, but free-ran thereafter. These differences were reflected in the
"social" phase angles (ψon and ψoff ) between rhythms of experimental and control
animal groups. Moreover, the activity patterns of aged animals showed lower
social synchrony with controls compared to young adults, with the time lags of
the time series between each experimental group and control group being negative 
in aged and positive in young adult animals (t-test, p < 0.05). The index of
stability of the CAR showed no differences according to age, while the intradaily
variability of the CAR was higher in the aged animals during
LD-resynchronization, who took additional days to resynchronize. Thus, the social
modulation on CAR may vary with age in marmosets. In the aged group, there was a 
lower effect of social synchronization, which may be associated with
aging-related changes in the synchronization and generation of the CAR as well as
in system outputs.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2020.1773495 
PMID: 32573282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

