

3024. Mov Disord. 2002 Sep;17(5):877-86.

The monoamine reuptake blocker brasofensine reverses akinesia without dyskinesia 
in MPTP-treated and levodopa-primed common marmosets.

Pearce RK(1), Smith LA, Jackson MJ, Banerji T, Scheel-Kr√ºger J, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas' School 
of Biomedical Sciences, London, United Kingdom.

The common marmoset develops motor deficits after MPTP treatment and exhibits
dyskinesia after chronic levodopa (L-dopa) dosing and subsequent re-challenge
with L-dopa and other dopaminergic agents. We report on the actions of the potent
monoamine reuptake blocker brasofensine on motor disability, locomotor activity, 
and dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-1, 2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) -treated
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. Oral administration of brasofensine (0.25,
0.5, 1.0, or 2.5 mg/kg) to MPTP-treated marmosets produced a long-lasting,
dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity and reduction in disability scores.
In addition, coadministration of the lowest dose of brasofensine (0.25 mg/kg
orally) with a threshold oral dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg) caused a marked increase
in locomotor activity, greater than that produced by either drug alone. In other 
MPTP-treated marmosets previously primed to exhibit dyskinesia by repeated L-dopa
dosing, brasofensine effectively reversed akinesia with a naturalistic and
prolonged motor response without the appearance of dyskinesia or stereotypy. This
finding contrasts with the severe dyskinesia, stereotypy, and hyperkinesis
produced by equivalent doses of L-dopa. The ability of brasofensine to produce a 
prolonged and naturalistic antiparkinsonian response without eliciting dyskinesia
after previous L-dopa priming may relate to actions on D(1) receptor-linked
pathways. These findings suggest that monoamine reuptake blockade may be of value
in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, both early in the disease course and
when L-dopa-induced dyskinesias complicate treatment.

Copyright 2002 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.10238 
PMID: 12360536  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

