

303. Eur J Med Genet. 2020 Sep;63(9):103971. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2020.103971. Epub
2020 Jun 18.

Natural human chimeras: A review.

Madan K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Post Box
9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, the Netherlands. Electronic address: k.madan@lumc.nl.

The term chimera has been borrowed from Greek mythology and has a long history of
use in biology and genetics. A chimera is an organism whose cells are derived
from two or more zygotes. Recipients of tissue and organ transplants are
artificial chimeras. This review concerns natural human chimeras. The first human
chimera was reported in 1953. Natural chimeras can arise in various ways. Fetal
and maternal cells can cross the placental barrier so that both mother and child 
may become microchimeras. Two zygotes can fuse together during an early embryonic
stage to form a fusion chimera. Most chimeras remain undetected, especially if
both zygotes are of the same genetic sex. Many are discovered accidently, for
example, during a routine blood group test. Even sex-discordant chimeras can have
a normal male or female phenotype. Only 28 of the 50 individuals with a
46,XX/46,XY karyotype were either true hermaphrodites or had ambiguous genitalia.
Blood chimeras are formed by blood transfusion between dizygotic twins via the
shared placenta and are more common than was once assumed. In marmoset monkey
twins the exchange via the placenta is not limited to blood but can involve other
tissues, including germ cells. To date there are no examples in humans of twin
chimeras involving germ cells. If human chimeras are more common than hitherto
thought there could be many medical, social, forensic, and legal implications.
More multidisciplinary research is required for a better understanding of this
fascinating subject.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Author. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2020.103971 
PMID: 32565253  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

