

3034. J Comp Neurol. 2002 Sep 2;450(4):366-81.

Striate cortex in dichromatic and trichromatic marmosets: neurochemical
compartmentalization and geniculate input.

Solomon SG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. samuels@cns.nyu.edu

The superficial layers of primate striate cortex (V1) contain a regular pattern
of dense staining for cytochrome oxidase (CO) reactivity ("blobs") that receive
direct input from the koniocellular layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus. It 
has been suggested that the blob regions are dedicated to processing color
information. Here, the neurochemical compartmentalization of blobs and their
input from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) was measured in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) identified as having either dichromatic or trichromatic
color vision. In all animals, layer III of V1 showed a patchy distribution of CO.
The spatial density of CO blobs (mean, 4.6 blobs/mm(2); range, 3.9-5.5), blob
diameter, and the proportion of cortical area within blobs was not significantly 
different in dichromats and trichromats. The LGN input was studied by injecting
retrograde tracer into V1. The koniocellular layers of the LGN contribute 11% of 
all relay cells, and form the only geniculate input to upper layer III of V1.
Only half of all relay cells in the KC layers express calbindin. There is no
obvious difference between dichromats and trichromats in the pattern of the
geniculate projection to V1. It is concluded that the trichromatic phenotype is
not associated with changes in the gross anatomy, neurochemistry, or organization
of the geniculate afferents to the superficial layers of V1.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.10327 
PMID: 12209849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

