

3038. J Biochem. 2002 Sep;132(3):395-400.

Effects of pravastatin sodium on mevalonate metabolism in common marmosets.

Miyazaki A(1), Koieyama T, Shimada Y, Kikuchi T, Nezu H, Ito K, Kasanuki N, Koga 
T.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacology and Molecular Biology Research Laboratories, Sankyo Co., Ltd.,
Hiromachi Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 140-8710, Japan.

In experimental animals and humans, the concentration of serum mevalonate (MVA), 
a direct product of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, is
considered to reflect the activity of whole-body sterol synthesis. The
relationship between the concentration of serum MVA and the activity of sterol
synthesis in tissues, however, has not been fully clarified. In the present
study, we examined MVA metabolism by using pravastatin, a liver-selective
inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, and common marmosets, a good model animal for
studying lipid metabolism. In the time course study, the maximal reduction in the
concentration of serum MVA was observed 2 h after a single oral administration of
30 mg/kg pravastatin to common marmosets. We, therefore, examined the
relationship between the concentrations of serum and hepatic MVA, and sterol
synthesis in some tissues at this time point. Sterol synthesis was determined ex 
vivo in tissue slices by measuring the incorporation of [14C]acetate into
digitonin-precipitable [14C]sterols. Pravastatin at 0.03-30 mg/kg reduced
dose-dependently the activity of hepatic sterol synthesis, whereas no significant
reduction of sterol synthesis was observed in other tissues such as intestine,
kidney, testis and spleen, even with the highest dose (30 mg/kg). The
liver-specific inhibition of sterol synthesis caused parallel reductions in the
concentrations of both serum and liver MVA. In addition, there were good
correlations between the concentration of either serum or hepatic MVA and the
activity of hepatic sterol synthesis. These data indicate that the major origin
of serum MVA is the liver, and that the concentration of serum MVA reflects the
concentration of hepatic MVA and the activity of hepatic sterol synthesis 2 h
after a single oral administration of pravastatin in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a003235 
PMID: 12204108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

