

3039. Reproduction. 2002 Sep;124(3):339-46.

Spermatogenesis and steroidogenesis in mouse, hamster and monkey testicular
tissue after cryopreservation and heterotopic grafting to castrated hosts.

Schlatt S(1), Kim SS, Gosden R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine, Domagkstrasse 11, 48149 MÃ¼nster, Germany.

Retrieval, extracorporal storage and autotransplantation of testicular tissue
could become an important strategy for preserving male gonadal function. The
present study used syngeneic and immunodeficient nude mice as hosts, and immature
and adult mice, neonatal and adult photoregressed Djungarian hamsters and
neonatal marmosets to identify the potential of testicular tissue grafting to
maintain the morphological and functional integrity of the testis. Testicular
tissue was grafted s.c. either as fresh tissue or after cryopreservation into
adult, orchidectomized hosts. The mice that received rodent testis tissue were
autopsied 50 days later, and blood samples were collected. Sixty-five per cent of
mouse isografts contained morphologically normal testicular tissue and
seminiferous tubules with some degree of spermatogenic recovery. Mature
spermatozoa were recovered after enzymatic disaggregation. Although the recovery 
of spermatogenesis was limited in adult mouse and hamster tissue, complete
spermatogenesis was observed in grafts from immature rodents. Testicular tissue
from neonatal marmosets developed up to the stage of spermatocytes at day 135
after xenografting. Androgen concentrations were comparable in intact control
mice and in mice receiving fresh mouse and hamster grafts, slightly lower in mice
receiving cryopreserved grafts and adult photoregressed hamster tissue, and low
in castrated control mice and in mice receiving marmoset tissue. These results
show that isografts and xenografts of immature and adult testicular tissue become
functionally active as a s.c. graft in the mouse and that this approach might be 
useful in combination with cryopreservation as a tool for storage and activation 
of the male germ line and androgen replacement therapy in patients.

DOI: 10.1530/rep.0.1240339 
PMID: 12201807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

