

3043. J Exp Med. 2002 Aug 19;196(4):431-45.

Blockade of HIV-1 infection of New World monkey cells occurs primarily at the
stage of virus entry.

LaBonte JA(1), Babcock GJ, Patel T, Sodroski J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cancer Immunology & AIDS, JFB 824, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
44 Binney Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

HIV-1 naturally infects chimpanzees and humans, but does not infect Old World
monkeys because of replication blocks that occur after virus entry into the cell.
To understand the species-specific restrictions operating on HIV-1 infection, the
ability of HIV-1 to infect the cells of New World monkeys was examined. Primary
cells derived from common marmosets and squirrel monkeys support every phase of
HIV-1 replication with the exception of virus entry. Efficient HIV-1 entry
typically requires binding of the viral envelope glycoproteins and host cell
receptors, CD4 and either CCR5 or CXCR4 chemokine receptors. HIV-1 did not
detectably bind or utilize squirrel monkey CD4 for entry, and marmoset CD4 was
also very inefficient compared with human CD4. A marmoset CD4 variant, in which
residues 48 and 59 were altered to the amino acids found in human CD4, supported 
HIV-1 entry efficiently. The CXCR4 molecules of both marmosets and squirrel
monkeys supported HIV-1 infection, but the CCR5 proteins of both species were
only marginally functional. These results demonstrate that the CD4 and CCR5
proteins of New World monkeys represent the major restriction against HIV-1
replication in these primates. Directed adaptation of the HIV-1 envelope
glycoproteins to common marmoset receptors might allow the development of New
World monkey models of HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.20020468 
PMCID: PMC2196058
PMID: 12186836  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

