

3046. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2002 Aug;43(8):2519-28.

Diurnal rhythms in intraocular pressure, axial length, and choroidal thickness in
a primate model of eye growth, the common marmoset.

Nickla DL(1), Wildsoet CF, Troilo D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science and Disease, New England College of
Optometry, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. nicklad@ne-optometry.edu

PURPOSE: In chickens, there are circadian rhythms in axial length, choroidal
thickness, and intraocular pressure (IOP), the phases of which differ, depending 
on visual manipulations that alter ocular growth rate. In this study, these same 
rhythms were sought in the common marmoset, a primate model of eye growth, to
establish whether these may play a role in ocular growth regulation across
species.
METHODS: IOP was measured by applanation tonometry in 14 untreated marmosets
ranging in age from 24 to 259 days. High-frequency A-scan ultrasonography was
used to measure ocular dimensions (axial length and choroidal thickness) in 12
marmosets ranging in age from 24 to 572 days. Four monkeys were measured when
they were juveniles (<110 days of age) and again later, when they were
adolescents. Measurements were typically made at 12-hour intervals, although
three animals were measured at 6-hour intervals. Nine monkeys had both IOP and
axial dimensions measured in the same experiment.
RESULTS: There was a diurnal rhythm in IOP in the marmosets: IOP was higher
during the dark period and lower during the light period (mean change, 3.6 mm Hg;
P < 0.005). There were also rhythms in axial length and choroidal thickness. The 
rhythm in axial length was dependent on age, with faster-growing eyes of
juveniles increasing in length during the day and decreasing at night (+25 microm
vs. -22 microm; P < 0.001) and slower-growing eyes of adolescents showing the
opposite pattern (-27 microm vs. +46 microm; P < 0.0001). The choroid thickened
during the night and thinned during the day, at all ages measured (+19 microm vs.
-16 microm; P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Diurnal rhythms in IOP, axial length, and choroidal thickness exist 
in primates. Age-related differences in the phase relationships of these rhythms 
may be associated with differences in the rates of ocular growth.


PMID: 12147579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

