

3048. Primates. 2002 Jul;43(3):179-90.

Islet hyperplasia in callitrichids.

Juan-Sallés C(1), Marco A, Ramos-Vara JA, Resendes A, Vergés J, Valls X,
Montesinos A.

Author information: 
(1)Clínica Exótics and Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
cjuansalles@yahoo.com

Five callitrichids (three common marmosets -Callithrix jacchus -, a black
tufted-eared marmoset -C. penicillata-, and a saddle-back tamarin -Saguinus
fuscicollis) were diagnosed with islet hyperplasia by histopathology and
immunohistochemistry. All were privately-owned, unrelated callitrichids ranging
from 2- to 4-year-old. Relevant findings were anorexia (3/5), vomiting (2/5),
ptyalism (1/5), polyuria/polydipsia (1/5), respiratory distress (1/5),
hyperglycemia (2/3) and glycosuria (1/1); hyperglycemia and glycosuria were
associated with pregnancy in a common marmoset and resolved after reducing simple
carbohydrates in diet. All five animals died, three of them after few premonitory
signs; in two cases, other concurrent diseases unrelated to islet hyperplasia
were considered the cause of death. Additional animals from two facilities had
high weight (4), physical obesity (3), polyuria/polydipsia/polyphagia/uriposia
(1), hyperglycemia (1), and/or glycosuria (2). Pathologic findings in the
deceased callitrichids were: islet hyperplasia (5/5); hemosiderosis (5/5);
lipomatosis (4/5) of several tissues (atria, 3/5; pancreas, gall bladder,
intestine, esophagus, and thyroid, 2/5; liver, 1/5); pancreatic necrosis or
steatonecrosis, and/or acute pancreatitis (3/5); and vacuolation of hepatocytes
and renal tubular cells most likely consistent with hepatorenal lipidosis (2/5). 
The islets of Langerhans were more numerous and larger than in a control, and
morphologically normal in all cases, except in a common marmoset that had a few
cells with a foamy cytoplasm and shrunken hyperchromatic or picknotic nucleus.
Insulin (5/5), glucagon (3/5), and somatostatin (3/5) immunohistochemistry
revealed that most cells stained positively for insulin diffusely in their
cytoplasm (5/5) (staining restricted to the vascular pole of b-cells in the
control). These findings suggest that obesity, insulin resistance and/or type II 
diabetes may be implicated and thus a prospective study on these diseases in
callitrichids is necessary to determine their etiopathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02629646 
PMID: 12145399  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

