

305. Cereb Cortex. 2020 Oct 1;30(11):5943-5959. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa168.

Altered Resting-State Functional Connectivity Between Awake and Isoflurane
Anesthetized Marmosets.

Hori Y(1), Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(1), Hayrynen LK(1), Cléry JC(1), Gati
JS(1), Menon RS(1), Everling S(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, The
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario N6A 5B7, Canada.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario N6A 5C1, Canada.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World primate that is becoming 
increasingly popular as a preclinical model. To assess functional connectivity
(FC) across the marmoset brain, resting-state functional MRI (RS-fMRI) is often
performed under isoflurane anesthesia to avoid the effects of motion,
physiological stress, and training requirements. In marmosets, however, it
remains unclear how isoflurane anesthesia affects patterns of FC. Here, we
investigated the effects of isoflurane on FC when delivered with either medical
air or 100% pure oxygen, two canonical methods of inhalant isoflurane anesthesia 
delivery. The results demonstrated that when delivered with either medical air or
100% oxygen, isoflurane globally decreased FC across resting-state networks that 
were identified in awake marmosets. Generally, although isoflurane globally
decreased FC in resting-state networks, the spatial structure of the networks was
preserved. Outside of the context of RS networks, we indexed pair-wise functional
connectivity between regions across the brain and found that isoflurane
substantially altered interhemispheric and thalamic FC. Taken together, these
findings indicate that RS-fMRI under isoflurane anesthesia is useful to evaluate 
the global structure of functional networks, but may obfuscate important nodes of
some network components when compared to data acquired in fully awake marmosets.

© The Author(s) 2020. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permission@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhaa168 
PMCID: PMC7899065
PMID: 32556184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

