

3050. Immunogenetics. 2002 Jul;54(4):230-9. Epub 2002 Jun 20.

Extensive Mhc-DQB variation in humans and non-human primate species.

Otting N(1), de Groot NG, Doxiadis GG, Bontrop RE.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Department of Immunobiology, Lange Kleiweg
139, 2280 GH Rijswijk, The Netherlands. otting@bprc.nl

Non-human primates are often used in biomedical research, and the application of 
these animals as a model in immune-related diseases necessitates the
characterisation of their MHC system. In particular, the MHC class II regions of 
the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), the rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta)and the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) have been subject of molecular biological
studies in recent years. In this study the emphasis was on MHC class II genes of 
another macaque species, Macaca fascicularis(crab eating macaque or cynomolgous
monkey). The exon 2 of the Mhc-DQB gene (Mafa-DQB) was sequenced in each of a
random panel of 60 non-pedigreed cynomolgous monkeys. This resulted in the
detection of 23 Mafa-DQB1alleles that had not previously been published. In
addition, unreported alleles were found in chimpanzees, rhesus macaques,
orang-utans (Pongo pygmaeus) and stump-tailed macaques (Macaca arctoides), of
which a few individuals were included in this study. Phylogenetic analyses
confirm the trans-species model of evolution of the MHC-DQBlineages, in which a
group of major alleles is passed on in the phylogeny, and has led to the sharing 
of allelic lineages by different species of non-human primates. The sharing of
alleles is observed only for closely related macaque species. Furthermore, this
manuscript provides an overview of all published, and whenever necessary
corrected, non-human primate Mhc-DQB exon 2 alleles.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-002-0461-9 
PMID: 12136334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

