

3056. Arch Toxicol. 2002 Jun;76(5-6):360-6. Epub 2002 Apr 11.

Low doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p-dioxin increase transforming growth
factor beta and cause myocardial fibrosis in marmosets ( Callithrix jacchus).

Riecke K(1), Grimm D, Shakibaei M, Kossmehl P, Schulze-Tanzil G, Paul M,
Stahlmann R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology (Dept. of Toxicology),
Benjamin Franklin Medical Center, Freie Universit√§t Berlin, Garystrasse 5, 14195 
Berlin, Germany.

Epidemiological studies have suggested an association between exposure to dioxins
and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. However, cardiotoxic effects of low
doses of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p-dioxin (TCDD) in animals have not been
reported so far. We studied the hearts of male marmosets ( Callithrix
jacchus)after treatment with single subcutaneous doses of 1, 10 or 100 ng TCDD/kg
body weight or vehicle (toluene/DMSO 1+2 v/v, 100 microl/kg body weight). The
animals were killed 2 or 4 weeks after treatment. Tissue samples of left
ventricular myocardium were stained with picrosirius red and examined
histologically along with quantitative image analysis. Extracellular matrix
proteins were additionally analysed by western blotting. Monkeys showed no overt 
signs of toxicity nor did their relative heart weights differ significantly
depending on treatment. Histology revealed an increase of picrosirius
red-positive area above control values in 2 of 4 (1 ng TCDD/kg body weight), 6 of
12 (10 ng/kg) and 6 of 10 (100 ng/kg) marmosets. Western blotting confirmed these
histological findings showing an increase of collagen, fibronectin and laminin in
the hearts of TCDD-treated animals. Western blotting additionally showed an
increased concentration of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) as well
as TGF-beta receptor type I which could be a functional link to the effects on
extracellular matrix. Our findings might explain the association of TCDD exposure
with increased cardiovascular mortality observed in epidemiological studies and
should stimulate further research on the role of changes in the extracellular
matrix in the toxic effects of dioxins and related substances on other organs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-002-0338-6 
PMID: 12107654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

