

3063. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2002 Feb;109(2):123-40.

The actions of a D-1 agonist in MPTP treated primates show dependence on both D-1
and D-2 receptor function and tolerance on repeated administration.

Smith LA(1), Jackson MJ, Al-Barghouthy G, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

The potent and long acting D-1 receptor agonist, A-77636 reverses motor deficits 
in MPTP treated common marmosets following subcutaneous or oral administration.
We now explore the effects of acute versus repeated administration of A-77636 and
the relative roles of D-1 and D-2 receptor involvement in its antiparkinsonian
actions. Acute oral administration (0.18-9.0 mg/kg) or subcutaneous
administration (0.036-1.08 mg/kg) of A-77636 produced well co-ordinated bouts of 
discontinuous locomotor activity. There was no evidence of repetitive or
stereotyped movements. However, oral administration of A-77636 (1.44 mg/kg) on
alternate days for 10 days produced tolerance to the increase in locomotor
activity and improvement of disability. Pretreatment with the D-1 antagonist SCH 
23390 (0.625, 2.5 or 5.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), produced a dose dependent
reduction in locomotor activity and antagonised the reduction in disability
scores following administration of A-77636 (0.36 mg/kg, subcutaneously). The
inhibitory effects of SCH 23390 lasted for some 2-5 hours after which the
activity of A-77636 was gradually restored. Unexpectedly, pretreatment with the
D-2 antagonist raclopride (1.25, 5.0 or 20.0 mg/kg, intraperitoneally),
dramatically diminished the antiparkinsonian effects of A-77636 (0.36 mg/kg,
subcutaneously) in a dose dependent manner. The dependence of the
antiparkinsonian activity of A-77636 on intact D-2 receptor function, suggests a 
need for endogenous D-2 receptor tone to express D-1 mediated locomotor activity.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020200009 
PMID: 12075853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

