

3064. J Gen Virol. 2002 Jul;83(Pt 7):1621-1633. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-83-7-1621.

Characterization of an Epstein-Barr virus-related gammaherpesvirus from common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Jenson HB(1), Ench Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Gao SJ(1), Arrand JR(2), Mackett M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pediatrics1 and Microbiology2, The University of Texas Health
Science Center, 7703 Floyd Curl Drive, San Antonio, TX 78229-3900, USA.
(2)Paterson Institute for Cancer Research, Christie Hospital NHS Trust,
Manchester, UK3.

A gammaherpesvirus related to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV; Human herpesvirus 4)
infects otherwise healthy common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Long-term
culture of common marmoset peripheral blood lymphocytes resulted in outgrowth of 
spontaneously immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines, primarily of B cell
lineage. Electron microscopy of cells and supernatants showed herpesvirus
particles. There were high rates of serological cross-reactivity to other
herpesviruses (68-86%), but with very low geometric mean antibody titres [1:12 to
human herpesvirus 6 and 1:14 to Herpesvirus papio (Cercopithecine herpesvirus
12)]. Sequence analysis of the conserved herpesvirus DNA polymerase gene showed
that the virus is a member of the lymphocryptovirus subgroup and is most closely 
related to a lymphocryptovirus from rhesus macaques and is closely related to EBV
and Herpesvirus papio. High seroprevalence (79%, with geometric mean antibody
titre of 1:110) among 28 common marmosets from two geographically distinct
colonies indicated that the virus is likely present in many common marmosets in
captivity. A New World primate harbouring a lymphocryptovirus suggests that this 
subgroup arose much earlier than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-83-7-1621 
PMID: 12075080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

