

3067. Eur J Pharmacol. 2002 May 10;442(3):187-93.

Binding properties of the novel, non-peptide CGRP receptor antagonist
radioligand, [(3)H]BIBN4096BS.

Schindler M(1), Doods HN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Research I, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma KG,
Birkendorfer Strasse 65, 88397 Biberach, Germany.
marcus.schindler@bc.boehringer-ingelheim.de

BIBN4096BS
[[R-(R,(R*,S*)]-N-[2-[[5-amino-1-[[4-(4-pyridinyl)-1-piperazinyl]carbonyl]
pentyl]amino]-1-[(3,5-dibromo-4-hydroxyphenyl)methyl]-2-oxoethyl]-4-(1,4-dihydro-
2-oxo-3(2H)-quinazolinyl)-,1-Piperidinecarboxamide] is a selective calcitonin
gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist with a picomolar affinity to the 
CGRP receptor in human neuroblastoma SK-N-MC cells. Here, we describe the
characterisation of the binding properties of the tritiated radioanalogue of
BIBN4096BS in SK-N-MC cells as well as in marmoset tissue. [(3)H]BIBN4096BS
showed reversible and saturable binding to SK-N-MC cells with a K(D) of 0.045 nM.
In competition experiments, [3(H)]BIBN4096BS is concentration-dependently
displaced from SK-N-MC cell membranes by BIBN4096BS as well as by the endogenous 
ligand CGRP and its analogues with the rank order of affinity BIBN4096BS>human
alpha-CGRP=human beta-CGRP>[Cys(Et)(2,7)]human alpha-CGRP>adrenomedullin (high
affinity site)=human alpha-CGRP-(8-37)=human beta-CGRP-(8-37)>calcitonin=amylin. 
In the marmoset cortex, saturable [(3)H]BIBN4096BS binding was observed with a
K(D) of 0.077 nM. CGRP showed biphasic competition of [(3)H]BIBN4096BS binding,
whilst BIBN4096BS monophasically displaced its radioanalogue with a K(i) of 0.099
nM. These data, using [(3)H]BIBN4096BS, confirm the high affinity of this novel
antagonist for the primate CGRP receptor and demonstrate furthermore that this
radioligand is a useful tool to study CGRP receptor pharmacology.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(02)01544-3 
PMID: 12065071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

