

3068. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2002 Jun 11;99(12):8207-12.

Molecular characterization of antibody specificities against
myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in autoimmune demyelination.

von BÃ¼dingen HC(1), Hauser SL, Fuhrmann A, Nabavi CB, Lee JI, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, Box 0114, 505
Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143-0114, USA.

Myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a target antigen for
myelin-destructive Abs in autoimmune central nervous system demyelinating
disorders. Little is known about the molecular and structural basis of these
pathogenic Ab responses. Here, we have characterized anti-MOG Ab specificities in
the marmoset model of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, by means of a
combinatorial IgG-Fab library. We found that a diverse population of Ig genes
encodes for auto-Abs that exclusively recognize conformation-dependent antigenic 
targets on MOG. These antigenic domains correspond to exposed epitopes in vivo,
as the Fab fragments recognize native MOG in situ in marmoset brain tissue. The
Ab fragments described here represent Ab specificities that are common
constituents of the humoral immune repertoire against MOG in outbred populations,
as demonstrated by their ability to displace native anti-MOG Abs present in sera 
from MOG-immune marmosets and patients with multiple sclerosis. Furthermore,
neuropathological analysis and characterization of Ab epitope specificities in
animals immunized with MOG or MOG-derived peptides revealed that only
conformation-dependent Abs are associated with demyelinating activity, suggesting
that epitope recognition is an important factor for Ab pathogenicity. Our
findings provide novel and unexpected knowledge on the diversity of anti-MOG Ab
responses in nonhuman primates and humans, and will permit the dissection of
pathogenic auto-Ab properties in multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.122092499 
PMCID: PMC123046
PMID: 12060766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

