

307. Ecol Evol. 2020 Apr 12;10(11):4691-4701. doi: 10.1002/ece3.6224. eCollection 2020
Jun.

What smells? Developing in-field methods to characterize the chemical composition
of wild mammalian scent cues.

Thompson CL(1), Bottenberg KN(1), Lantz AW(2), de Oliveira MAB(3), Melo LCO(3),
Vinyard CJ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences Grand Valley State University Allendale MI
USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry Grand Valley State University Allendale MI USA.
(3)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal Universidade Federal Rural de
Pernambuco Recife Brazil.
(4)Department of Anatomy & Neurobiology Northeast Ohio Medical University
Rootstown OH USA.

Olfactory cues play an important role in mammalian biology, but have been
challenging to assess in the field. Current methods pose problematic issues with 
sample storage and transportation, limiting our ability to connect chemical
variation in scents with relevant ecological and behavioral contexts. Real-time, 
in-field analysis via portable gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) has
the potential to overcome these issues, but with trade-offs of reduced
sensitivity and compound mass range. We field-tested the ability of portable
GC-MS to support two representative applications of chemical ecology research
with a wild arboreal primate, common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). We
developed methods to (a) evaluate the chemical composition of marmoset scent
marks deposited at feeding sites and (b) characterize the scent profiles of
exudates eaten by marmosets. We successfully collected marmoset scent marks
across several canopy heights, with the portable GC-MS detecting known components
of marmoset glandular secretions and differentiating these from in-field
controls. Likewise, variation in the chemical profile of scent marks demonstrated
a significant correlation with marmoset feeding behavior, indicating these
scents' biological relevance. The portable GC-MS also delineated species-specific
olfactory signatures of exudates fed on by marmosets. Despite the trade-offs,
portable GC-MS represents a viable option for characterizing olfactory compounds 
used by wild mammals, yielding biologically relevant data. While the decision to 
adopt portable GC-MS will likely depend on site- and project-specific needs, our 
ability to conduct two example applications under relatively challenging field
conditions bodes well for the versatility of in-field GC-MS.

Â© 2020 The Authors. Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.6224 
PMCID: PMC7297786
PMID: 32551053 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to
declare.

