

3072. Brain. 2002 Jun;125(Pt 6):1283-96.

Activity of a newly identified serine protease in CNS demyelination.

Scarisbrick IA(1), Blaber SI, Lucchinetti CF, Genain CP, Blaber M, Rodriguez M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Immunology, Mayo Medical and Graduate Schools,
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. scarisbrick.isobel@mayo.edu

We have identified a novel serine protease, myelencephalon-specific protease
(MSP), which is preferentially expressed in the adult CNS, and therein, is
abundant in both neurones and oligodendroglia. To determine the potential
activity of MSP in CNS demyelination, we examined its expression in multiple
sclerosis lesions and in two animal models of multiple sclerosis: Theiler's
murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein
(MOG)-induced experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in marmosets. High
levels of MSP were present within infiltrating mononuclear cells, including
macrophages and T cells, which characteristically fill sites of demyelination,
both in multiple sclerosis lesions and in animal models of this disease. The
functional consequence of excess MSP on oligodendroglia was determined in vitro
by evaluating the effects of recombinant MSP (r-MSP) on oligodendrocyte survival 
and process number. Application of excess r-MSP resulted in a dramatic loss of
processes from differentiated oligodendrocytes, and a parallel decrease in
process outgrowth from immature cells. Transfection of oligodendrocyte
progenitors with an MSP-green fluorescent protein construct produced similar
changes in oligodendrocyte process number. Importantly, r-MSP did not affect
oligodendrocyte survival or differentiation towards the sulphatide-positive
lineage. We further demonstrate that myelin basic protein, and to a lesser extent
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, can serve as MSP substrates. These studies
support the hypothesis that excess MSP, as is present in inflammatory CNS
lesions, promotes demyelination.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awf142 
PMID: 12023317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

