

3075. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2001;13(7-8):557-66.

Angiogenesis in the primate ovary.

Fraser HM(1), Wulff C.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology,
Edinburgh, UK. h.fraser@hrsu.mrc.ac.uk

The ovary is distinctive in undergoing cyclic changes in angiogenesis that play a
critical role in the normal functioning of the female reproductive system. The
current paper describes the use of the marmoset monkey as an in vivo model in
which the cellular and molecular regulation of angiogenesis in the ovary can be
investigated and the effects of manipulation of angiogenic factors elucidated.
The studies are based on quantifying changes in blood vessel area and endothelial
cell proliferation, monitoring changes in expression patterns of putative
angiogenic regulatory factors and targeting these factors by antagonists in vivo.
Quantification of endothelial cell proliferation shows that angiogenesis
commences in the pre-antral follicle, increases with follicular development and
becomes intense in the early corpus luteum. Vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF), a principal angiogenic factor, is synthesized by the developing follicle 
and corpus luteum. Administration of specific antagonists in vivo for selected
periods of the ovulatory cycle shows that inhibition of VEGF results in a marked 
decrease in endothelial cell proliferation in the follicle and is accompanied by 
a decline in granulosa cell proliferation. Inhibition during the early or
mid-luteal phase results in a marked suppression in luteal angiogenesis, failure 
of development of the microvascular tree and suppression of luteal function.
Manipulation of angiogenesis should be a novel approach to either promoting or
inhibiting the normal processes of folliculogenesis, ovulation and corpus luteum 
function.

DOI: 10.1071/rd01055 
PMID: 11999306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

