

308. Am J Primatol. 2020 Aug;82(8):e23159. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23159. Epub 2020 Jun 9.

Early learning in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): Behavior in the
family group is related to preadolescent cognitive performance.

Ash H(1), Ziegler TE(1), Colman RJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(2)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, Wisconsin Institutes for Medical 
Research, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, 
Wisconsin.

Early environment can have a major impact on development, with family life known 
to play an important role. Longitudinal studies can therefore help increase our
understanding of variance in cognitive abilities in young animals, as well as
over time. We followed 22 marmosets (11 male and 11 female) from infancy through 
to early adolescence. At 3 months old, the marmosets were trained to reliably
touch a rewarded stimulus. At 5 months, behavior was observed within the natal
group. At 9 months, the marmosets were given a visual discrimination task to
assess learning ability. Mann-Whitney U tests found no sex or family size
differences in number of errors at 3 or 9 months. While no significant
relationships were found between behavior in the family and learning at 3 months,
significant negative correlations were found between duration spent in locomotion
and learning errors (p = .05), as well as between frequency of calm vocalizations
and learning errors (p = .001) at 9 months. A U-shape curve was found between
amount of social play and learning at 9 months. Positive family interactions,
including moderate amounts of play, as well as calm individual behavior, may
therefore be important in learning. This study sheds light on cognitive
development in much younger marmosets than previously studied, and helps increase
understanding of how individual differences in learning may arise.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23159 
PMCID: PMC7440670
PMID: 32515834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

