

3082. J Neurophysiol. 2002 Apr;87(4):1723-37.

Representation of spectral and temporal envelope of twitter vocalizations in
common marmoset primary auditory cortex.

Nagarajan SS(1), Cheung SW, Bedenbaugh P, Beitel RE, Schreiner CE, Merzenich MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah
84112-9458, USA. sri@utah.edu

Cortical sensitivity in representations of behaviorally relevant complex input
signals was examined in recordings from primary auditory cortical neurons (AI) in
adult, barbiturate-anesthetized common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). We 
studied the robustness of distributed responses to natural and degraded forms of 
twitter calls, social contact vocalizations comprising several quasi-periodic
phrases of frequency and AM. We recorded neuronal responses to a monkey's own
twitter call (MOC), degraded forms of their twitter call, and sinusoidal
amplitude modulated (SAM) tones with modulation rates similar to those of twitter
calls. In spectral envelope degradation, calls with narrowband channels of
varying bandwidths had the same temporal envelope as a natural call. However, the
carrier phase was randomized within each narrowband channel. In temporal envelope
degradation, the temporal envelope within narrowband channels was filtered while 
the carrier frequencies and phases remained unchanged. In a third form of
degradation, noise was added to the natural calls. Spatiotemporal discharge
patterns in AI both within and across frequency bands encoded spectrotemporal
acoustic features in the call although the encoded response is an abstract
version of the call. The average temporal response pattern in AI, however, was
significantly correlated with the average temporal envelope for each phrase of a 
call. Response entrainment to MOC was significantly correlated with entrainment
to SAM stimuli at comparable modulation frequencies. Sensitivity of the response 
patterns to MOC was substantially greater for temporal envelope than for spectral
envelope degradations. The distributed responses in AI were robust to additive
continuous noise at signal-to-noise ratios > or =10 dB. Neurophysiological data
reflecting response sensitivity in AI to these forms of degradation closely
parallel human psychophysical results on the intelligibility of degraded speech
in quiet and noisy conditions.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00632.2001 
PMID: 11929894  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

