

3088. Res Microbiol. 2002 Jan-Feb;153(1):45-52.

Bacteriocin production by Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans isolated from the 
oral cavity of humans with periodontal disease, periodontally healthy subjects
and marmosets.

Lúcia LF(1), Farias FF, Eustáquio CJ, Auxiliadora M, Carvalho R, Alviano CS,
Farias LM.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Microbiologia Prof Paulo de Góes, Centro de Ciências da Saúde,
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Cidade Universitária, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.

The ability of Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans to produce bacteriocin has
rarely been reported. Antagonistic substance production may confer an important
ecological advantage for the producer microorganisms, especially in a competitive
ecosystem such as the oral cavity. In the present study, 75 A.
actinomycetemcomitans strains isolated from the oral cavity of human patients
with periodontal disease, periodontally healthy subjects and marmosets, as well
as two reference strains (A. actinomycetemcomitans ATCC 29523 and FDC Y4) were
evaluated for auto-, iso-, and heteroantagonistic activity. Fifty-one (68.00%)
strains exhibited antagonistic activity; heteroantagonism was observed more often
than isoantagonism. Isolated strains antagonized 17 different species of
gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria from the oral and nonoral microbiota.
Sensitivity to heat and to proteolytic enzymes constituted strong evidence that
the antagonistic substance has a proteic nature. Taken together, our data enabled
us to confirm that the antagonistic substance detected was a bacteriocin. The
wide spectrum of activity indicates the possibility that more than one
antagonistic substance is produced and that these substances play an important
role in the ecological balance of the oral ecosystem.

DOI: 10.1016/s0923-2508(01)01285-2 
PMID: 11881898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

