

3092. Cytogenet Cell Genet. 2001;94(3-4):206-15.

Molecular cytotaxonomy of New World monkeys (Platyrrhini) - comparative analysis 
of five species by multi-color chromosome painting gives evidence for a
classification of Callimico goeldii within the family of Callitrichidae.

Neusser M(1), Stanyon R, Bigoni F, Wienberg J, MÃ¼ller S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anthropology and Human Genetics, Ludwig Maximilian University,
Munich, Germany.

Chromosome rearrangements are considered as "rare genomic changes" and can
provide useful markers and even landmarks for reconstructing phylogenies
complementary to DNA sequence data and bio-morphological comparisons. Here, we
applied multi-directional chromosome painting to reconstruct the chromosome
phylogeny and evolutionary relationships among the New World monkey (Platyrrhini)
species Callithrix argentata, Cebuella pygmaea, Saguinus oedipus, Callithrix
jacchus and Callimico goeldii. The results clarified several aspects of New Wold 
monkey phylogeny. In particular the phylogenetic position of C. goeldii was
elucidated, which has been controversially discussed and variously classified in 
the family Callitrichidae, in the family Cebidae or in its own family
Callimiconidae. Comparative genome maps were established by multi-color
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with human, S. oedipus and Lagothrix
lagothricha chromosome- specific DNA probes. From these data we reconstructed the
putative ancestral karyotype of all Callitrichidae. Various derived chromosomal
syntenies are shared by all five species and cytogenetically define
Callitrichidae - including Callimico goeldii -- as a distinctive group within the
Platyrrhini. C. pygmaea and C. argentata share identical chromosomal syntenies
from which S. oedipus and C. jacchus differ by single independent translocations.
A common derived chromosomal change links Callimico with the marmosets to the
exclusion of the tamarins, however, it has further diverged from an ancestral
marmoset karyotype by at least four apomorphic rearrangements. Saimiri sciureus, 
representing the Cebinae, exclusively shares a derived syntenic association with 
all Callithrichidae, defining the genus Saimiri as a sister group.

Copyright 2002 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000048818 
PMID: 11856883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

