

3094. Oncogene. 2002 Jan 24;21(5):825-35.

Hypothesis: a novel route for immortalization of epithelial cells by Epstein-Barr
virus.

Gao Y(1), Lu YJ, Xue SA, Chen H, Wedderburn N, Griffin BE.

Author information: 
(1)Viral Oncology Unit, Department of Medicine, Imperial College of Science,
Technology and Medicine, Norfolk Place, London W2 1PG, UK.

Transfection of primate tissue explants with a specific sub-fragment (p31) of EBV
DNA results in epithelial (but no other) cells proliferating indefinitely
(becoming 'immortalized') without evidence of a 'growth crisis'. Molecular
evidence supports integration of viral information into the host chromosome, and 
an early genotypic alteration involving specific amplification of a sub-component
(IR1) of p31 DNA, followed by apparent loss of viral DNA from chromosomes,
consistent with a 'hit and run' mechanism. However, analysis at the individual
cell level during long-term culture, by FISH techniques, reveals chromosomal
alterations, and viral sequences surviving within double minute (DM) bodies.
Changing growth patterns occurring at different stages during propagation (>a
year in culture) may be explained by sporadic reintegration of surviving viral
DNA into the host chromosome. Notably, throughout culture, telomere lengths in
chromosomal DNAs do not alter but rather retain the length observed in the
primary cell populations. Introduction of a growth stimulating function of EBV,
BARF1, into the immortalized, non-clonable epithelial cells under conditions
which permit overexpression, allows clonal populations to be derived. Based on
the data, mechanisms of immortalization, in the absence of a proven viral
oncogene in p31 DNA, and possible genes involved, are considered.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1205130 
PMID: 11850810  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

