

3096. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2002 Feb;87(2):691-9.

Development of pituitary-adrenal endocrine function in the marmoset monkey:
infant hypercortisolism is the norm.

Pryce CR(1), Palme R, Feldon J.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural Neurobiology Laboratory, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Zurich, CH-8603 Schwerzenbach, Switzerland. pryce@toxi.biol.ethz.ch

Early life stress, involving activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal
(HPA) system, is associated with altered functioning of stress-related systems in
adulthood. In the rat, postnatal development is characterized by low basal HPA
activity and stress hyporesponsiveness, and infant exposure to atypical
glucocorticoid levels leads to chronic alteration of HPA function and
HPA-dependent peripheral and central processes. There have been few studies of
primate HPA ontogeny, and here we report a study of changes in pituitary-adrenal 
function between birth and adulthood in the common marmoset monkey. In this
simian primate, basal plasma ACTH and cortisol levels were actually elevated in
neonates (ACTH, 141 +/- 28 pg/ml; cortisol, 1903 +/- 326 microg/dl) and wk 4
infants (ACTH, 114 +/- 9 pg/ml; cortisol, 290 +/- 8 microg/dl) relative to month 
2 infants, juveniles (month 6), subadults (month 12), and adults (>2 yr; ACTH, 37
+/- 4 to 61 +/- 8 pg/ml; cortisol, 101 +/- 2 to 195 +/- 4 microg/dl). In contrast
to older life stages, neonates lacked circadian change in their plasma cortisol
levels, and this state of consistently high cortisol was associated with large
adrenal glands in addition to high ACTH levels. Cerebrospinal fluid cortisol
levels were, in accord with plasma levels, higher in wk 4 infants than in
juveniles and subadults. In terms of stress response, month 2 infants
demonstrated ACTH and cortisol peak stress responses similar to those at older
life stages (infant stress cortisol, 185 +/- 36% of basal; subadult stress
cortisol, 174 +/- 6% of basal); whereas infant ACTH recovery was also similar to 
that in older subjects, their cortisol poststress recovery was retarded. This
primate, it is proposed, provides an excellent complementary model in which to
test hypotheses derived from the rat model relating to HPA system ontogeny and
the chronic effects and biomedical implications of hypercorticoidism during early
life.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.87.2.8244 
PMID: 11836307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

