

3097. Mov Disord. 2002 Jan;17(1):13-9.

Neuroprotective effect of riluzole in a primate model of Parkinson's disease:
behavioral and histological evidence.

Obinu MC(1), Reibaud M, Blanchard V, Moussaoui S, Imperato A.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Program, Research Center of Paris, Aventis Pharma,
S.A. Vitry sur Seine, France. Marie-Carmen.Obinu@aventis.com

Our study aimed to determine whether riluzole, which has shown efficacy as a
disease-modifying agent in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), is
neuroprotective in a marmoset model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Reduction of
energy demand by riluzole could be a rational neuroprotective strategy with good 
tolerability. The efficacy of riluzole was evaluated in marmosets by testing its 
ability to reduce MPTP-induced behavioral deficits and loss of dopaminergic
nigral neurons. Marmosets were divided into two groups of four animals each:
animals in Group 1 were injected twice with MPTP (2 mg/kg subcutaneous) and
treated with riluzole (10 mg/kg per os b.i.d.), animals in Group 2 (controls)
were injected with MPTP and with the vehicle of riluzole. A third group of
marmosets which did not receive MPTP or riluzole drug was introduced for
neurohistopathological studies (normal animals). Marmosets treated with riluzole 
preserved a better motor function and neurological performance through the 26
days of assessment when compared with the controls. Histologically, there was
sparing of TH- and Nissl-stained nigral neurons and of TH-stained terminals in
the striatum and the putamen in the group treated with riluzole compared to the
controls. We conclude that riluzole protects dopaminergic neurons and reduces
behavioral deficits in a marmoset model of PD.

Copyright 2001 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.1272 
PMID: 11835434  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

