

310. Primates. 2020 Sep;61(5):707-716. doi: 10.1007/s10329-020-00824-3. Epub 2020 May 
14.

Callitrichid responses to dead and dying infants: the effects of paternal bonding
and cause of death.

Thompson CL(1), Hrit R(2), Melo LCO(3), Vinyard CJ(4), Bottenberg KN(2), de
Oliveira MAB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Grand Valley State University, Allendale,
MI, USA. thompscy@gvsu.edu.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Grand Valley State University, Allendale,
MI, USA.
(3)Departamento de Morfologia e Fisiologia Animal, Universidade Federal Rural de 
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(4)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University,
Rootstown, OH, USA.

Many primates show responses to dead infants, yet testing explanations for these 
behaviors has been difficult. Callitrichids present a unique opportunity to
delineate between hypotheses, since unlike most species, male caretakers form
closer social bonds with infants than mothers. Callitrichids are also known to
commit infanticide, leaving obvious wounds that may enable them to more readily
recognize death. We present: (1) a case study of a wild common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) group responding to an infant's natural death, and (2) a
review of published infant deaths across callitrichids (N = 16), testing for
trends in the sex of reacting individuals and cause of death. In our case study, 
several group members frequently interacted with the dead infant, attempting to
carry it. However, the strongest response was from a male that remained with the 
corpse for ~ 3 h, despite his group leaving the area. Across callitrichid
species, corpse interactions were significantly sex-biased: 100% (N = 6) of
accidental deaths involved corpse interaction by males (p = 0.007), compared to
60% (N = 3 of 5) by females (p = 0.095). Cause of death also played a significant
role, with individuals attempting to carry dead infants in 100% (N = 6) of
accidental deaths, but only 11.1% (N = 1 of 9) of infanticides (p = 0.001).
Although the available literature is small and potentially subject to publication
biases, these data support the idea that visually obvious wounds may influence
callitrichids' perception of dead conspecifics. Additionally, male-biased
patterns of corpse interaction in callitrichids indicate that social bonds likely
shape reactions to the dead, in addition to kinship. While published data on
primate thanatology are limited, this study demonstrates quantitative approaches 
that can provide empirical insights into primates' responses to dead
conspecifics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-020-00824-3 
PMID: 32409994  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

