

3102. Am J Primatol. 2002 Feb;56(2):117-27.

Does the milk of Callitrichid monkeys differ from that of larger anthropoids?

Power ML(1), Oftedal OT, Tardif SD.

Author information: 
(1)Nutrition Laboratory, Department of Conservation Biology, National Zoological 
Park, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC 20008, USA. powerm@nzp.si.edu

The generalization that anthropoid primates produce dilute milks that are low in 
protein and energy is based primarily on data from large monkeys of the families 
Cebidae and Cercopithecidae, as well as humans. The marmosets and tamarins
(Callitrichidae) are not only much smaller in body size, but also typically raise
multiple offspring during a relatively brief lactation. We hypothesized that
selection for small body size and high reproductive rate might favor secretion of
milk of higher energy and protein concentrations. To test this hypothesis, 46
milk samples collected from 10 common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus, ca. 350 g)
were assayed for dry matter (DM), crude protein (CP), fat, and sugar; and gross
energy (GE) was calculated from these constituents. We also assayed five samples 
collected from three golden lion tamarins (Leontopithecus rosalia, ca. 700 g) and
six samples collected from a single pygmy marmoset (Cebuella pygmaea, ca. 150 g) 
over two lactation periods. All samples were collected between days 10 and 57
post partum, representing mid lactation for these species. The milks of these
three species were similar, containing 14.0%, 16.1%, and 13.7% DM; 2.7%, 2.6%,
and 2.9% CP; 3.6%, 5.2%, and 3.7% fat; 7.4%, 7.2%, and 7.8% sugar; and 0.76,
0.90, and 0.82 kcal/g for common marmosets, golden lion tamarins, and the pygmy
marmoset, respectively. These species produced milks with energy values that were
within the range reported for large anthropoids, albeit with slightly higher
protein concentration. However, milk composition did vary substantially among
individual common marmoset females, especially in the proportion of milk energy
derived from fat. In contrast, CP as expressed as a percent of GE was remarkably 
constant among common marmoset females. Callitrichid milk appeared to be similar 
to that of larger anthropoid primates in GE, but was higher in CP and in the
proportion of GE from CP. However, the small sample sizes for the golden lion
tamarin and the pygmy marmoset, and the wide variation in milk composition found 
among common marmoset females cautions against definitively characterizing the
milks of callitrichids from these data.

Copyright 2002 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1068 
PMID: 11793418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

