

3108. Xenobiotica. 2001 Dec;31(12):849-60.

Evaluation of the marmoset as a model species for drug glucuronidation.

Soars MG(1), Riley RJ, Burchell B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Pathology, Ninewells Hospital and Medical
School, Dundee, UK.

1. The in vitro glucuronidation of a wide range of compounds has been studied in 
microsomes prepared from marmoset liver and kidney. These studies have been
undertaken to evaluate the marmoset as a model species for drug glucuronidation
and for comparison with conjugation by other species. 2. The compounds studied
were glucuronidated by marmoset liver microsomes to varying extents (e.g.
naproxen CLint 0.4 microl min(-1) mg(-1), 1-naphthol CLint 43 microl min(-1)
mg(-1)) Both marmoset and rat liver microsomes glucuronidated morphine at the
3-position (marmoset CLint 19 microl min(-1) mg(-1), rat CLint 6.3 microl min(-1)
mg(-1)) but glucuronidation at the 6-position was below, the level of
radiodetection in both species. 3. Interestingly, marmoset liver microsomes were 
able to catalyse the glucuronidation of the tertiary amine imipramine to a
significant extent (0.05 nmol min(-1) mg(-1)). However, no glucuronidation was
detected by rat liver microsomes. 4. Conjugation of a range of substrates was
detectable by marmoset kidney microsomes in contrast to rat kidney microsomes,
which only catalysed the glucurondation of bilirubin and 1-naphthol (CLint 17
microl min(-1) mg(-1) and 18 microl min(-1) mg(-1), respectively). 5. This report
and previous work in dog and human tissue microsomes suggest that the marmoset
may be an alternative animal model for human drug glucuronidation, especially
when the pathway of drug glucuronidation is known to differ between lower
laboratory species and man.

DOI: 10.1080/00498250110069690 
PMID: 11780760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

