

3110. Neuropharmacology. 2002 Jan;42(1):74-81.

[3H]-SB-269970 radiolabels 5-HT7 receptors in rodent, pig and primate brain
tissues.

Thomas DR(1), Atkinson PJ, Hastie PG, Roberts JC, Middlemiss DN, Price GW.

Author information: 
(1)GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals, Psychiatry Centre of Excellence for Drug
Discovery, New Frontiers Science Park (North), Third Avenue, CM19 5AW, Harlow,
Essex, UK. david_r_thomas@sbphrd.com

The selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist radioligand, [3H]-SB-269970, has been
reported to radiolabel the human cloned 5-HT7(a) receptor and 5-HT7 receptors in 
guinea pig cortex (thomas et al, 2000). Saturation analysis of [3H]-SB-269970
binding to mouse forebrain, rat cortex, pig cortex, marmoset cortex and human
thalamus membranes was consistent with labelling a homogenous population of
binding sites in each tissue. K(D) values for [3H]-SB-269970 binding in these
tissues ranged from 0.9 to 2.3 nM, being similar to those reported for the human 
cloned and guinea pig cortex 5-HT7 receptors (1.3 and 1.7 nM, respectively). Bmax
values for [3H]-SB-269970 binding to the mouse, rat, pig, marmoset and human
brain membranes were 20, 30, 31, 14 and 68 fmoles x mg x protein(-1),
respectively. For each species the profile of inhibition of [3H]-SB-269970
binding, using a number of 5-HT7 receptor agonists and antagonists, correlated
well with that reported for the human cloned 5-HT7(a) receptor (correlation
coefficients were 0.95, 0.94, 0.92, 0.95, 0.97 versus the mouse, rat, pig,
marmoset and human tissues, respectively). In conclusion, [3H]-SB-269970 has been
shown to radiolabel 5-HT7 receptors in rodent, pig and primate brain and
represents a valuable tool with which to further characterise the distribution
and function of 5-HT7 receptors in native tissues and elucidate their potential
role in disease states.

DOI: 10.1016/s0028-3908(01)00151-4 
PMID: 11750917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

