

3116. Cereb Cortex. 2002 Feb;12(2):199-211.

Vascularization in the primate visual cortex during development.

Fonta C(1), Imbert M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, UMR 5549 Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique/Université Paul Sabatier, Faculté de Médecine Rangueil,
133 route de Narbonne, 31062 Toulouse cedex, France. fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

We studied the relationship between vascularization and neuronal activity in the 
visual cortex during postnatal development in the primate. Analyses were focused 
on layer IVC that displays a sequential pattern of maturation for the magno- and 
parvocellular systems in separate sublayers, respectively IVC alpha and IVC beta.
Cytochrome oxidase and endogenous alkaline phosphatase histochemistry was used to
analyse, on the same sections, the laminar patterns of cortical activity and
vessel density in the primary visual cortex of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).
Experiments were carried out in five young and two adult animals. We showed that 
the temporal pattern of angiogenesis differs in layer IVC alpha and IVC beta.
During the first postnatal month, vessel density is higher in IVC alpha than in
IVC beta and runs parallel to cytochrome oxidase intensity. In 2-month-old
animals, both vessel densities and cytochrome oxidase activity are similar in IVC
alpha and IVC beta. In adults, the vessel densities in IVC alpha and IVC beta are
the reverse of those observed during the first postnatal month. Vessel diameter
does not account for this evolution in vascular patterns. In the discussion, we
suggest that such a developmental time-course of angiogenesis might be linked to 
the synaptogenesis requirements that proceed differently for the magno- and
parvocellular systems in the primate striate cortex.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/12.2.199 
PMID: 11739267  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

