

3117. Clin Neurophysiol. 2001 Dec;112(12):2265-73.

Investigation of the sleep electrocorticogram of the common marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus) using radiotelemetry.

Crofts HS(1), Wilson S, Muggleton NG, Nutt DJ, Scott EA, Pearce PC.

Author information: 
(1)Psychopharmacology Unit, School of Medical Sciences, University Walk,
University of Bristol, BS8 1TD, Bristol, UK. hc233@hermes.cam.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the use of a totally implantable radiotelemetry system for
recording the sleep electrocorticogram (ECoG) of a small new world primate, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) without restraint during data collection.
METHODS: Under anaesthesia a telemetry transmitter, which allowed the recording
of a single ECoG channel, was implanted intraperitoneally. This system allowed
ECoG data to be recorded overnight from animals living in pairs within their
habitual laboratory environment over a period of 12 months. Data were
subsequently scored using modified Rechtschaffen and Kales criteria (A manual of 
standardized terminology, techniques and scoring system for sleep stages of human
subjects. Los Angeles, UCLA Brain Information Service/Brain Research Institute,
1968) into stages of waking, light sleep, deep sleep and probable rapid eye
movement sleep (pREM). Concurrent video recording was used to assist in the
categorising of pREM.
RESULTS: Results showed that, as in man, the marmoset exhibits sleep cycles with 
stages alternating between non-REM (deep sleep and light sleep) and pREM sleep
throughout the night. In common with other non-human primates the duration of
each of the sleep stages was relatively short and punctuated with frequent
waking.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that sleep in marmosets housed under laboratory
conditions (a) can be recorded without restraint and (b) has potential to be used
as a model for human sleep.

DOI: 10.1016/s1388-2457(01)00699-x 
PMID: 11738198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

