

312. Behav Processes. 2020 Jul;176:104136. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2020.104136. Epub
2020 May 11.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) cannot recognize global configurations of
sound patterns but can recognize adjacent relations of sounds.

Wakita M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
Kanrin 41-2, Inuyama, Aichi 484-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
wakita.masumi.2e@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Processing the temporal configuration of discrete sounds to extract a regular
pattern is fundamental to humans' faculties of perceiving words and musical
phrases. To investigate such auditory pattern perception in monkeys, I trained
two common marmosets to discriminate between AB-AB and AA-BB patterns under two
training paradigms. One was an absolute discrimination task, in which the
discrimination between these stimuli without reference cues was required. The
other was a relative discrimination task, in which the detection of a change from
one stimulus to the other was required. The marmosets failed in the absolute
discrimination task but achieved the relative discrimination task. Failure in the
absolute task indicated that the marmosets were unable to form a representation
of the global sound patterns in their long-term memory stores. In contrast,
success in the relative task indicated that the marmosets had short-term memory
of ongoing sounds that enabled an online monitoring to detect deviations between 
incoming sounds and the anticipated upcoming sounds. Thus, the current findings
imply that marmosets can at least perceive adjacent tone relations in an auditory
stream regardless of the temporal configuration of the global sound patterns.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2020.104136 
PMID: 32404248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The author
declares no conflict of interest related to this manuscript.

