

3120. Mol Hum Reprod. 2001 Dec;7(12):1159-65.

Expression and localization of thioredoxin during early implantation in the
marmoset monkey.

Lopata A(1), Sibson MC, Enders AC, Bloomfield KL, Gregory MS, Trapani GD, Perkins
AV, Tonissen KF, Clarke FM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria 3053, Australia.

Thioredoxin is a powerful redox protein expressed in invasive cytotrophoblasts
and essential for blastocyst implantation in mice. Isolated marmoset thioredoxin 
cDNA showed that the deduced amino acid sequence differed from the human sequence
by four amino acids. The close homology of thioredoxin in the two species enabled
us to use monoclonal antibodies against human thioredoxin to detect marmoset
thioredoxin in implantation sites, blastocysts and culture medium.
Immunocytochemistry on marmoset implantation sites, on pregnancy days 12 and 15, 
showed that thioredoxin is highly expressed in uterine luminal epithelium, glands
and in some endometrial stromal cells. In attached blastocysts, thioredoxin
staining was detected in mural and polar trophoblast cells and both visceral and 
parietal endoderm, whereas no staining was present in the inner cell mass. A
similar pattern of thioredoxin expression was detected in hatched blastocysts
attached to Matrigel in tissue culture. Trophoblastic vesicles derived from
blastocysts expressed thioredoxin in inner endoderm-like cells and outer
trophoblast-like cells and secreted thioredoxin into the culture medium. These
experiments have demonstrated thioredoxin expression during early stages of
embryo-maternal interaction. We propose that thioredoxin protects the early
placenta from oxidative damage and that the marmoset is a valuable model for
studying thioredoxin regulation and function during implantation and blastocyst
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/7.12.1159 
PMID: 11719593  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

