

3122. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2001;108(8-9):985-1009.

Monoamine oxidase-inhibition and MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in the non-human
primate: comparison of rasagiline (TVP 1012) with selegiline.

Kupsch A(1), Sautter J, Götz ME, Breithaupt W, Schwarz J, Youdim MB, Riederer P, 
Gerlach M, Oertel WH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Klinikum Grosshadern, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, 
and Institute of Physiology, München, Federal Republic of Germany.
andreas.kupsch@charite.de

The neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) has been shown
to induce parkinsonism in man and non-human primates. Monoamine-oxidase B (MAO-B)
has been reported to be implicated in both MPTP-induced parkinsonism and
Parkinson's disease, since selegiline (L-deprenyl), an irreversible MAO-B
inhibitor, prevents MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in numerous species including
mice, goldfish and drosophyla. However, one disadvantage of this substance
relates to its metabolism to (-)-methamphetamine and (-)-amphetamine. Rasagiline 
(R-(+)-N-propyl-1-aminoindane) is a novel irrevesible MAO-B-inhibitor, which is
not metabolized to metamphetamine and/or amphetamine. The present study compared 
the effects of high doses of selegiline and rasagiline (10 mg/kg body weight
s.c.) on MPTP-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in a non-human primate
(Callithrix jacchus) model of PD. Groups of four monkeys were assigned to the
following six experimental groups: Group I: Saline, Group II: Selegiline/Saline, 
Group III: Rasagiline/Saline, Group IV: MPTP/Saline, Group V: Rasagiline/MPTP,
Group VI: Selegiline/MPTP. Daily treatment with MAO-B-inhibitors (either
rasagiline or selegiline, 10 mg/kg body weight s.c.) was initiated four days
prior to MPTP-exposure (MPTP-HCl, 2 mg/kg body weight subcutaneously, separated
by an interval of 24 hours for a total of four days) and was continued until the 
end of the experiment, i.e. 7 days after the cessation of the MPTP-injections,
when animals were sacrificed. MPTP-treatment caused distinct behavioural,
histological, and biochemical alterations: 1. significant reduction of motor
activity assessed by clinical rating and by computerized locomotor activity
measurements; 2. substantial loss (approx. 40%) of dopaminergic
(tyrosine-hydroxylase-positive) cells in the substantia nigra, pars compacta; and
3. putaminal dopamine depletion of 98% and its metabolites DOPAC (88%) and HVA
(96%). Treatment with either rasagiline or selegiline markedly attenuated the
neurotoxic effects of MPTP at the behavioural, histological, and at the
biochemical levels. There were no significant differences between rasagiline/MPTP
and selegiline/MPTP-treated animals in respect to signs of motor impairment, the 
number of dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra, and striatal dopamine
levels. As expected, both inhibitors decreased the metabolism of dopamine,
leading to reduced levels of HVA and DOPAC (by >95% and 45% respectively). In
conclusion, rasagiline and selegiline at the dosages employed equally protect
against MPTP-toxicity in the common marmoset, suggesting that selegiline-derived 
metabolites are not important for the neuroprotective effects of high dose
selegiline in the non-human MPTP-primate model in the experimental design
employed. However, unexpectedly, high dose treatment with both MAO-inhibitors
caused a decrease of the cell sizes of nigral tyrosine hydroxylase positive
neurons. It remains to be determined, if this histological observation represents
potential adverse effects of high dose treatment with monoamine oxidase
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1007/s007020170018 
PMID: 11716151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

