

3123. Int Immunopharmacol. 2001 Nov;1(12):2043-62.

Factors modifying the migration of lymphocytes across the blood-brain barrier.

Brown KA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Characterising the factors that control the entry of leucocytes into tissue in
response to inflammatory or microbial insult continues to generate considerable
interest. Of all the tissues studied it is probably that of the CNS which is the 
most fascinating because of the specialised properties of its blood vessel walls,
which constitute the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In health, very few leucocytes
penetrate the BBB but in disorders such as MS the barrier becomes compromised
with the result that there is an intense infiltration of the CNS by T lymphocytes
whose subsequent activity appears to underlie the onset and progression of
disease. The purpose of this article is to summarise and assess recent literature
pertaining to how lymphocytes bind to cerebral endothelial cells, migrate across 
the blood vessel walls and enter the CNS parenchyma. Particular emphasis is
devoted to the cellular and molecular aspects of these events and addressing the 
questions of whether certain subsets of circulating T lymphocytes are more
favourably disposed than others to CNS infiltration and whether entry is
dependent upon the initial expression of distinct groups of adhesion molecules
and upon the generation of chemotactic factors. This article also focuses upon
identifying the key stages of lymphocyte migration across the BBB and their
susceptibility to antagonism by therapeutic agents. It is intended that the
review will provide a useful source of information and offer additional insights 
into the mechanisms controlling lymphocyte passage across the BBB during
pathological disturbance.

DOI: 10.1016/s1567-5769(01)00129-1 
PMID: 11710535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

