

3124. Braz J Biol. 2001 Aug;61(3):397-404.

Ecological aspects of black-pincelled marmoset (Callithrix penicillata) in the
cerradão and dense cerrado of the Brazilian central plateau.

de Miranda GH(1), de Faria DS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Ecologia, Universidade de Brasília, C.P. 04631, CEP 70919-970.
guihbm@unb.br

Ecological data about three free-ranging groups of C. penicillata
(black-pincelled marmoset) were observed between March and December 1996, in one 
cerradão patch (in the Ecological Reserve of Brazilian Institute of Geography and
Statistics, RECOR) and two patches of dense cerrado (one in the RECOR and another
in the Botanical Garden of Brasília, JBB), situated in the APA (area of
environmental protection) of the Gama/Cabeça-de-Veado, Distrito Federal. Each
area was visited weekly during three periods of two months--end of the rainy
season (01/04 to 31/05), dry season (16/06 to 15/08) and beginning of the rainy
season (14/10 to 15/12)--and instantaneous scan records at fifteen minute
intervals were made for the vertical and horizontal position of each visible
individual of the target group. The group size ranged between 4 and 11 elements. 
In September, the birth of twins in both groups of the RECOR was observed.
Home-range varied from 8.25 to 18.5 hectares, while density ranged from 0.4 to
0.82 ind/ha. Twenty two species of nine tree families were identified as exudate 
sources. Qualea grandiflora (Vochysiaceae), Vochysia thyrsoidea (Vochysiaceae),
Scheflera macrocarpum (Araliaceae) and Qualea parviflora (Vochysiaceae) were more
explored. Fruits (14 species, two of which were exotics), nectar, honey,
arthropods (mainly orthopterans) and bird eggs complete their diet. The main
sleep-tree species was Emmotum nitens (Icacinaceae). Data from different seasons 
and studied groups/areas were compared along previous data from this primate
species in gallery forests. In the cerradão and dense cerrado areas C.
penicillata had a similar group size, however a larger home-range and smaller
density than in gallery forests were observed in this study.

DOI: 10.1590/s1519-69842001000300008 
PMID: 11706566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

