

3125. J Neurophysiol. 2001 Nov;86(5):2616-20.

Differential representation of species-specific primate vocalizations in the
auditory cortices of marmoset and cat.

Wang X(1), Kadia SC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.
xwang@bme.jhu.edu

A number of studies in various species have demonstrated that natural
vocalizations generally produce stronger neural responses than do their
time-reversed versions. The majority of neurons in the primary auditory cortex
(A1) of marmoset monkeys responds more strongly to natural marmoset vocalizations
than to the time-reversed vocalizations. However, it was unclear whether such
differences in neural responses were simply due to the difference between the
acoustic structures of natural and time-reversed vocalizations or whether they
also resulted from the difference in behavioral relevance of both types of the
stimuli. To address this issue, we have compared neural responses to natural and 
time-reversed marmoset twitter calls in A1 of cats with those obtained from A1 of
marmosets using identical stimuli. It was found that the preference for natural
marmoset twitter calls demonstrated in marmoset A1 was absent in cat A1. While
both cortices responded approximately equally to time-reversed twitter calls,
marmoset A1 responded much more strongly to natural twitter calls than did cat
A1. This differential representation of marmoset vocalizations in two cortices
suggests that experience-dependent and possibly species-specific mechanisms are
involved in cortical processing of communication sounds.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.86.5.2616 
PMID: 11698547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

