

3127. J Nutr. 2001 Nov;131(11):2904-9.

Subtoxic hepatic vitamin A concentrations in captive rhesus monkeys (Macaca
mulatta).

Penniston KL(1), Tanumihardjo SA.

Author information: 
(1)Integrated Graduate Program in Nutritional Sciences, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

Although the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta) is a widely used experimental animal,
its exact vitamin A requirement is unknown. An amount of 430-3600 IU/d [129-1080 
retinol equivalents (RE)] is recommended, largely on the basis of depletion
studies. Normal hepatic vitamin A appears to be 1 micromol/g liver. Our goal was 
to determine hepatic vitamin A concentrations of captive monkeys. Liver autopsy
samples from rhesus and marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys were obtained from 
the Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center. The rhesus monkeys consumed a
diet with 40 IU (12 RE) retinyl acetate/g. Male and female monkeys consumed an
estimated 250 and 175 g diet/d, respectively. Marmosets were fed a powder-based
diet consisting of 20 IU (6 RE) retinyl acetate/g. The marmosets consumed an
estimated 25 g of the diet/d. Liver samples were extracted and analyzed by HPLC. 
The vitamin A concentration of the rhesus monkey livers was very high at 17.0 +/-
6.3 micromol/g. The hepatic vitamin A of the marmosets was 1.25 +/- 0.58
micromol/g liver. Histologic examination of the livers revealed Ito cell
hypertrophy and hyperplasia in the rhesus monkeys compared with the marmosets.
Considering that the natural diet of the rhesus monkey (fruits, seeds, roots and 
insects) is not high in preformed vitamin A, the vitamin A content of the diet
appears excessive, supplying four times the NRC recommendation and resulting in
high liver stores.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/131.11.2904 
PMID: 11694616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

