

3129. Immunogenetics. 2001 Sep;53(7):557-63.

Characterization of the expressed immunoglobulin IGHV repertoire in the New World
marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

von BÃ¼dingen HC(1), Hauser SL, Nabavi CB, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California School of Medicine, 505
Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143-0114, USA.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) is a member of the
Callithrichinae, a family of outbred New World primates with limited MHC
polymorphisms and a propensity to develop spontaneous or experimentally induced
autoimmunity. C. jacchus marmosets are susceptible to experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis (EAE), and spontaneously develop autoimmune colitis and
thyroiditis. Such disease models approximate the complexity of human autoimmune
disorders, and allow an investigation of the respective roles of T-cell and
antibody responses to self-antigens in outbred species. A key issue for further
definition of the pathogenic antibody responses in human autoimmunity is to
understand the diversity of the immunoglobulin repertoire in primate models.
Here, we characterized the expressed immunoglobulin IGHV repertoire of the C.
jacchus marmoset. Six IGHV subgroups were identified which show a high degree of 
sequence similarity to their human IGHV counterparts (IGHV1, IGHV3, IGHV4, IGHV5,
IGHV6, and IGHV7). As in the expressed human IGHV repertoire, the framework
regions are more conserved when compared to the complementarity-determining
regions (CDRs), with the greatest degree of variability located in CDR3.
Predicted structural features are highly conserved between C. jacchus and human
IGHV. This information now provides a framework for studies of the
antigen-specific repertoire of pathogenic antibodies in EAE and other
immune-mediated diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s002510100362 
PMID: 11685468  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

