

3130. Exp Neurol. 2001 Nov;172(1):189-98.

Antiparkinsonian action of a delta opioid agonist in rodent and primate models of
Parkinson's disease.

Hille CJ(1), Fox SH, Maneuf YP, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QT, United
Kingdom.

The opioid peptides localized in striatal projection neurons are of great
relevance to Parkinson's disease, not only as a consequence of their
distribution, but also due to the pronounced changes in expression seen in
Parkinson's disease. It has long been suspected that increased expression of
enkephalin may represent one of the many mechanisms that compensate for dopamine 
(DA) depletion in Parkinson's disease. Here we demonstrate that a systemically
delivered, selective delta opioid agonist (SNC80) has potent antiparkinsonian
actions in both rat and primate models of Parkinson's disease. In rats treated
with either the D2-preferring DA antagonist haloperidol (1 mg/kg) or the
selective D1 antagonist SCH23390 (1 mg/kg), but not a combination of D1 and D2
antagonists, SNC80 (10 mg/kg) completely reversed the catalepsy induced by DA
antagonists. In rats rendered immobile by treatment with reserpine, SNC80
dose-dependently reversed akinesia (EC(50) 7.49 mg/kg). These effects were
dose-dependently inhibited (IC(50) 1.05 mg/kg) by a selective delta opioid
antagonist (naltrindole) and by SCH23390 (1 mg/kg), but not by haloperidol (1
mg/kg). SNC80 also reversed parkinsonian symptoms in the MPTP-treated marmoset.
At 10 mg/kg (ip), scores measuring bradykinesia and posture were significantly
reduced and motor activity increased to levels comparable with pre-MPTP-treatment
scores. Any treatment that serves to increase delta opioid receptor activation
may be a useful therapeutic strategy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease,
either in the early stages or as an adjunct to dopamine replacement therapy.
Furthermore, enhanced enkephalin expression observed in Parkinson's disease may
serve to potentiate dopamine acting preferentially at D1 receptors.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2001.7763 
PMID: 11681851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

