

3133. Eur J Immunol. 2001 Oct;31(10):2942-50.

Frequency, heterogeneity and encephalitogenicity of T cells specific for myelin
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein in naive outbred primates.

Villoslada P(1), Abel K, Heald N, Goertsches R, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, USA.
pvilloslada@unav.es

Auto-reactive T cells present in healthy subjects remain in a state of
unresponsiveness, but may trigger autoimmunity under various situations. Although
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is a potential target antigen in
multiple sclerosis (MS), MOG-reactive T cell responses are present in the blood
of both healthy subjects and MS-affected individuals. To investigate the
disease-inducing potential and regulation of these autoreactive T cells in
healthy outbred populations, we have characterized MOG-reactive T cell clones
obtained by limiting dilution from peripheral blood of unimmunized C. jacchus
marmosets. We report an extraordinarily high prevalence of circulating
MOG-reactive T cells in these naive animals (2.6 +/- 1.4 / 10(5) PBMC), and a
broadly diverse repertoire of epitope recognition encompassing at least three
regions within the extracellular domain of MOG. Adoptive transfer of a
MOG21-40-specific T cell clone resulted in mild clinical experimental allergic
encephalomyelitis, characterized pathologically by rare foci of inflammation and 
minimal demyelination. We conclude that MOG-reactive T cells are present in
healthy primates at a highly prevalent frequency, and are potentially capable of 
triggering central nervous system autoimmunity. Expansion of these autoreactive T
cells must be tightly controlled to maintain immune homeostasis in healthy
individuals.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(2001010)31:10<2942::aid-immu2942>3.0.co;2-m 
PMID: 11592070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

