

3134. Cereb Cortex. 2001 Nov;11(11):1015-26.

Differential effects of 6-OHDA lesions of the frontal cortex and caudate nucleus 
on the ability to acquire an attentional set.

Crofts HS(1), Dalley JW, Collins P, Van Denderen JC, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW,
Roberts AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Site, 
Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK. hc233@hermes.cam.ac.uk

Evidence from both human and animal studies indicates that catecholamine
(dopamine and noradrenaline) imbalances in the fronto-striatal circuitry are
associated with deficits in higher- order cognitive functions. The present study 
examined how catecholamines within this circuitry modulate attentional function, 
specifically the ability to develop, maintain, and shift an attentional set.
Catecholamine depletions within the frontal cortex of the common marmoset
impaired the ability to acquire an attentional set, and increased susceptibility 
to distraction from task-irrelevant stimuli. Analysis of set-shifting performance
with stimulus dimensions of varying salience suggested that frontal catecholamine
depletion selectively disrupts "top-down", but not "bottom-up" attentional
processing. In contrast, the ability to acquire and shift an attentional set
remained intact following dopaminergic depletion from the caudate nucleus.
However, the reduced susceptibility to distraction from task-irrelevant stimuli
displayed by monkeys with dopaminergic depletions of the caudate nucleus suggests
that responding was under more rigid control by the currently rewarded stimulus. 
The results demonstrate opposite behavioural effects of 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA) lesions in the frontal cortex and caudate nucleus in tasks requiring
selective attention. Frontal catecholamine depletion caused an increase in
distractibility while caudate dopamine loss induced greater focusing of
responding.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/11.11.1015 
PMID: 11590111  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

