

3138. J Comp Neurol. 2001 Oct 1;438(4):490-504.

Short and mid-wavelength cone distribution in a nocturnal Strepsirrhine primate
(Microcebus murinus).

Dkhissi-Benyahya O(1), Szel A, Degrip WJ, Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)I.N.S.E.R.M. Unit√© 371, Cerveau et Vision, 69675 Bron, France.

Strepsirrhines are of considerable interest for understanding the evolution of
cone photoreceptors because they represent the most ancestral living primates.
The retina of nocturnal Strepsirrhines is reported to contain a single population
of medium/long wavelength (MW/LW) cones whereas short wavelength (SW) cones are
totally absent. The area centralis of nocturnal Strepsirrhines also lacks the
degree of central specialization seen in the fovea of diurnal primates. In this
study of a nocturnal Strepsirrhine, the gray mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus), we
used specific antibodies that recognize SW and MW/LW opsins to determine the
presence of different cone subtypes and their distribution in relation to that of
rods and ganglion cells. The results are compared to two diurnal Haplorhine
species, a New World (Callithrix jacchus) and an Old World (Macaca fascicularis) 
monkey. In the mouse lemur, both antibodies to MW/LW cone opsin (COS-1 and
CERN956) label the same population of cones. A small proportion of SW cones is
only stained by the JH455 antiserum whereas the monoclonal OS-2 antibody shows
negative staining. These two antibodies label the same SW cone population in
other primates. The extracellular matrix of all cones is also labeled by the
peanut agglutinin (PNA) lectin. In mouse lemur retinal wholemounts, peak cone
density is localized at the area centralis and ranged from 7,500 to 8,000
cones/mm(2). SW cones represent less than 0.2 % of the total cone population and 
are mainly located in the nasal part of the retina. SW cones show an irregular
distribution and densities never exceed 49 cones/mm(2). The distribution of
neurons in the ganglion cell layer shows a distinct centroperipheral gradient
with a peak of 28,000 cells/mm(2) at the area centralis. Rod distribution shows a
centroperipheral gradient with the peak (850,000 rods/mm(2)) including and
extending slightly dorsal to the area centralis. The theoretical spatial
resolution of the mouse lemur (4.9 cycles/degree) is slightly lower to that of
other nocturnal primates. The densities of rods, cones, and ganglion cell layer
neurons represent a compromise between spatial resolution and sensitivity for
both photopic and scotopic vision.

Copyright 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.1330 
PMID: 11559903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

