

3140. J Neuroimmunol. 2001 Sep 3;119(1):124-30.

Novel monoclonal antibodies against proteolipid protein peptide 139-151
demonstrate demyelination and myelin uptake by macrophages in MS and marmoset EAE
lesions.

Laman JD(1), Visser L, Maassen CB, de Groot CJ, de Jong LA, 't Hart BA, van Meurs
M, Schellekens MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus University Rotterdam and University Hospital
Dijkzigt, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
Laman@immu.fgg.eur.nl

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by immunization of mice
with epitopes of the proteolipid protein (PLP), a major myelin constituent, forms
a useful model for the study of multiple sclerosis (MS). In addition, MS patients
display PLP-specific T- and B-cell responses, suggesting that PLP reactivity is
relevant to pathogenesis.Here, the generation and characterization of a panel of 
mouse monoclonal antibodies (Mab) against PLP139-151, the prominent
encephalitogenic sequence in SJL/J mice is described. Five Mab were generated by 
conventional immunization of an SJL/J mouse and hybridoma generation. These Mab
reacted well with the PLP139-151 peptide in ELISA and belonged to the IgG2a and
IgG2b subclasses, consistent with CD4+ T helper 1-cell-supported antibody
formation. The Mab also efficiently detected PLP peptide-BSA conjugates in
Western blot, confirming their multi-assay applicability. The Mab were
subsequently used to determine the occurrence of demyelination in brains of MS
patients and marmoset monkeys with EAE. Immunohistochemistry on both paraffin and
frozen sections demonstrated a homogeneous expression of PLP139-151 in normal
myelin, and a complete absence in lesions containing demyelinated areas,
confirming that the Mab can be used as a general myelin marker. In active
demyelinating MS lesions, the Mab visualized the peptide in the cytoplasm of
macrophages containing phagocytosed myelin. In conclusion, this panel of Mab
against the encephalitogenic PLP139-151 epitope forms a useful tool for further
study of autoantigen expression, demyelination/remyelination and the staging of
lesional activity in MS patients, as well as in EAE models in distinct animal
species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5728(01)00356-3 
PMID: 11525809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

