

3142. J Virol Methods. 2001 Jul;96(1):93-6.

Efficient isolation of mumps virus from a community outbreak using the marmoset
lymphoblastoid cell line B95a.

Knowles WA(1), Cohen BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Enteric Respiratory and Neurological Virus Laboratory, Virus Reference
Division, Central Public Health Laboratory, 61 Colindale Avenue, London NW9 5HT, 
UK. wknowles@phls.org.uk

The incidence of mumps infection in the UK was reduced greatly by vaccination as 
a component of MMR vaccine, but cases and outbreaks continue to occur. Although
in specialised laboratories RT-PCR is available for detection of mumps virus RNA 
in clinical samples, in routine laboratories virus isolation remains a standard
method for diagnosing mumps virus infection. Furthermore, isolation of mumps
virus strains circulating currently is important for monitoring the ability of
vaccine-induced antibody to neutralise any genotypes recognised recently and to
detect any changes in phenotype. In this study we compared rhesus monkey kidney
(RMK) cells with the cell line B95a for mumps virus isolation from twenty throat 
swabs collected during a mumps outbreak in a religious community with low MMR
coverage. Mumps virus was isolated from eight cases (40%), six were positive in
both cell cultures and two in only one, all positive samples being collected
within 2 days of onset. Virus growth in B95a cells was detected by the production
of a syncytial cytopathic effect, and confirmed by an indirect fluorescent
antibody test using a mumps monoclonal antibody. The B95a cell line was found to 
be equally as sensitive for mumps isolation as RMK cells, which are regarded as
the 'gold standard', thus providing an alternative to the use of primary animal
cell culture.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-0934(01)00326-3 
PMID: 11516492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

