

3146. J Immunol. 2001 Sep 1;167(5):2942-9.

Prevention of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) using a chimeric antagonist monoclonal antibody against
human CD40 is associated with altered B cell responses.

Boon L(1), Brok HP, Bauer J, Ortiz-Buijsse A, Schellekens MM, Ramdien-Murli S,
Blezer E, van Meurs M, Ceuppens J, de Boer M, 't Hart BA, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Tanox Pharma B.V., Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Inhibition of CD40-CD40 ligand interaction is a potentially effective approach
for treatment of autoimmune diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. We have
investigated this concept with a chimeric antagonist anti-human CD40 mAb (ch5D12)
in the marmoset monkey experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model.
Marmosets were immunized with recombinant human myelin oligodendrocyte
glycoprotein (rMOG) and treated from the day before immunization (day -1) until
day 50 with either ch5D12 (5 mg/kg every 2-4 days) or placebo. On day 41 after
the induction of EAE, four of four placebo-treated monkeys had developed severe
clinical EAE, whereas all animals from the ch5D12-treated group were completely
free of disease symptoms. High serum levels of ch5D12 associated with complete
coating of CD40 on circulating B cells were found. At necropsy placebo- and
ch5D12-treated animals showed similar MOG-specific lymphoproliferative responses 
in vitro, but ch5D12 treatment resulted in strongly reduced anti-MOG IgM Ab
responses and delayed anti-MOG IgG responses. Most importantly, treatment with
ch5D12 prevented intramolecular spreading of epitope recognition. Postmortem
magnetic resonance imaging and immunohistologic analysis of the CNS showed a
markedly reduced lesion load after ch5D12 treatment. In conclusion, the strong
reduction of clinical, pathological, and radiological aspects of EAE by ch5D12
treatment in this preclinical model points to a therapeutic potential of this
engineered antagonist anti-CD40 mAb for multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.167.5.2942 
PMID: 11509643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

