

3153. Mov Disord. 2001 Jul;16(4):631-41.

Antiparkinsonian activity and dyskinesia risk of ropinirole and L-DOPA
combination therapy in drug na√Øve MPTP-lesioned common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Maratos EC(1), Jackson MJ, Pearce RK, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenenerative Disease Research Centre, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas'
School of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, London, United Kingdom.

De novo administration of long-acting dopamine agonists, such as ropinirole, to
patients with Parkinson's disease or to
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated subhuman primates
produces a lower incidence of dyskinesia than occurs with L-DOPA. This study
compares the intensity of dyskinesia produced by combinations of L-DOPA and
ropinirole and by these drugs alone, using the MPTP-treated common marmoset model
of Parkinson's disease. The objective is to determine the optimum therapeutic
strategy for the long-term control of Parkinson's disease with a minimal risk of 
dyskinesia. MPTP-treated marmosets received either L-DOPA alone, ropinirole
alone, or one of two combinations of these drugs (either L-DOPA dominant or
ropinirole dominant) daily for 28 days in doses titrated to produce a similar
improvement in disability and increase in locomotion. In the group receiving
L-DOPA alone, there was a trend for peak dose locomotor activity to increase and 
the duration of drug effect to decline over the period of the study. L-DOPA alone
induced marked dyskinesia over the period of treatment, in contrast to ropinirole
which produced a low intensity of involuntary movements. The L-DOPA dominant
combination initially produced little dyskinesia, but this became increasingly
intense as the study progressed. In contrast, the ropinirole dominant combination
produced no greater intensity of dyskinesia than was produced by ropinirole
alone. These data suggest that in early Parkinson's disease, the use of
ropinirole alone or in combination with a low-dose L-DOPA might delay the
induction of dyskinesias while improving motor performance.

Copyright 2001 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.1149 
PMID: 11481686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

