

3158. Vis Neurosci. 2001 Mar-Apr;18(2):209-18.

Long-range interactions in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the New-World
monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Felisberti F(1), Derrington AM.

Author information: 
(1)Applied Vision Research Centre, Department of Optometry & Visual Science, City
University, London, UK. F.Felisberti@city.ac.uk

Visual stimulation of zones extending beyond the classical receptive field can
modulate the contrast gain of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of 
cats, but little is known about the effect of extra-classical visual stimulation 
on the LGN of primates. Hence, we compare the effect of long-range interactions
in parvocellular and magnocellular LGN layers of the marmoset monkey Callithrix
jacchus using optimal, incremental spots flashed on the classical receptive field
either alone or simultaneously with the shift of a grating (98% contrast; 0.1
cycles/deg) confined to a peripheral annulus (radii: 5-15 deg). The contrast
required to drive the response halfway to saturation (c50) of most LGN neurons
was raised by remote pattern shifts. The c50 ratio [(shift+spot)/spot] in
OFF-center magnocellular neurons was significantly higher than in OFF-center
parvocellular neurons. OFF-center magnocellular neurons closer to the fovea (<10 
deg eccentricity) tended to have a higher c50 ratio than in more peripheral
neurons. A significant drop in visual sensitivity to 25% contrast spots was
observed during remote motion: d' fell from 1.8 to 1.4 in parvocellular neurons
and from 2.2 to 1.7 in magnocellular neurons. Such long-range interactions
produce a reduction in visual sensitivity by changing the gain of the geniculate 
relay and point to an inhibitory, motion-sensitive extra-classical receptive
field in both parvocellular and magnocellular pathways, which may be involved in 
saccadic suppression and attentional mechanisms in early vision.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523801182064 
PMID: 11417796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

