

316. Primates. 2020 Nov;61(6):807-816. doi: 10.1007/s10329-020-00826-1. Epub 2020 May 
7.

Wild common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) employ spatial cognitive abilities to 
improve their food search and consumption: an experimental approach in
small-scale space.

Abreu F(1), Souto A(2), Schiel N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil. filipaabreu88@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Av. Professor Moraes 
Rego, 1235, Recife, PE, 50670-901, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, R. Dom Manuel
de Medeiros, s/n, Recife, PE, 52171-900, Brazil.

The ability of an animal to integrate and retain spatial information of resources
often depends on the spatial memory and the speed at which this memory
crystallizes. These become especially important once foragers reach their target 
area. However, very little is known about how wild common marmosets encode
spatial information when feeding rewards are near to each other in a small-scale 
space. With this in mind, we performed field experiments to test foraging
decisions related to a small-scale space setting. Specifically, we tested the (i)
short- and (ii) long-term spatial memory, as well as (iii) the ability to
remember the spatial location of resources after a single visit (one-trial
spatial learning). The study was conducted with four groups of wild common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) living in a semiarid Caatinga environment. We
observed that individuals were able to retain spatial information of food sources
on both a short- and long-term basis and to learn the spatial location of these
resources after a single visit. We suggest that such abilities during foraging
can improve the search for scattered resources with fluctuations of food
availability. Presumably, this would be particularly advantageous in Caatinga,
with its vegetation exhibiting asynchronous phenological patterns. Altogether,
our results demonstrate that common marmosets employ all three studied spatial
cognitive abilities to improve their food search and consumption.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-020-00826-1 
PMID: 32383127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

