

3160. Arzneimittelforschung. 2001;51(5):425-32.

Four-week oral toxicity studies of the new quinolone antibacterial agent
cetefloxacin tosylate in rats and marmoset monkeys.

Guzmán A(1), García C, Marín AP, Demestre I.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Department, Laboratorios Dr. Esteve S.A., Barcelona, Spain.

Four-week oral toxicity studies with cetefloxacin tosylate
((-)-7[3-(R)-amino-2-(S)-methyl-1-azetidinyl]-1-(2,4-
difluorophenyl)-1,4-dihydro-6-fluoro-4-oxo-3-quinolinecarboxylic acid tosylate,
CAS 141725-88-4 (base), E-4868.Ts) a new quinolone antibacterial agent, were
performed in Sprague-Dawley rats and marmoset monkeys at doses of 100, 450, 2000 
mg/kg/d and 25, 50, 125, 300 mg/kg/d, respectively. In rats, due to its toxicity 
the high dose was decreased to 1000 mg/kg/d after 3 days of treatment. Mortality 
was recorded among high dose rats receiving 2000 or 1000 mg/kg/d. Rats receiving 
dosages of 450 or 2000/1000 mg/kg/d showed less activated mandibular lymph nodes,
cortical lymphocyte depletion of mandibular and/or mesenteric lymph nodes,
atrophy of the white pulp of the spleen, cortical atrophy of thymus and thymic
apoptosis. Enlarged caeca, increased water consumption and variations in plasma
electrolyte levels were observed in animals receiving these dosages and in male
rats receiving 100 mg/kg/d. Low neutrophil counts were observed in rats receiving
dosages of 100 or 450 mg/kg/d, and increased alkaline phosphatase and alanine
transaminase plasma levels and slightly decreased plasma protein levels in
females receiving 450 or 2000/1000 mg/kg/d. Marmosets receiving dosages of 50
mg/kg/d and above displayed several clinical signs which included emesis,
diarrhoea, ptosis, occasional episodes of under- and overactivity, and excessive 
scratching activity. Skin reddening was observed during the first week of
treatment in marmosets receiving 300 mg/kg/d. On the basis of the results
obtained it can be concluded that the non-toxic doses of E-4868. Ts after 4-week 
oral administration in rats and marmoset monkeys were 100 and 25 mg/kg/d,
respectively.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1300058 
PMID: 11413745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

