

3163. J Virol. 2001 Jul;75(13):5842-50.

Morbilliviruses use signaling lymphocyte activation molecules (CD150) as cellular
receptors.

Tatsuo H(1), Ono N, Yanagi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Fukuoka
812-8582, Japan.

Morbilliviruses comprise measles virus, canine distemper virus, rinderpest virus,
and several other viruses that cause devastating human and animal diseases
accompanied by severe immunosuppression and lymphopenia. Recently, we have shown 
that human signaling lymphocyte activation molecule (SLAM) is a cellular receptor
for measles virus. In this study, we examined whether canine distemper and
rinderpest viruses also use canine and bovine SLAMs, respectively, as cellular
receptors. The Onderstepoort vaccine strain and two B95a (marmoset B cell
line)-isolated strains of canine distemper virus caused extensive cytopathic
effects in normally resistant CHO (Chinese hamster ovary) cells after expression 
of canine SLAM. The Ako vaccine strain of rinderpest virus produced strong
cytopathic effects in bovine SLAM-expressing CHO cells. The data on entry with
vesicular stomatitis virus pseudotypes bearing measles, canine distemper, or
rinderpest virus envelope proteins were consistent with development of cytopathic
effects in SLAM-expressing CHO cell clones after infection with the respective
viruses, confirming that SLAM acts at the virus entry step (as a cellular
receptor). Furthermore, most measles, canine distemper, and rinderpest virus
strains examined could any use of the human, canine, and bovine SLAMs to infect
cells. Our findings suggest that the use of SLAM as a cellular receptor may be a 
property common to most, if not all, morbilliviruses and explain the
lymphotropism and immunosuppressive nature of morbilliviruses.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.75.13.5842-5850.2001 
PMCID: PMC114299
PMID: 11390585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

