

3174. J Neurocytol. 2000 Sep;29(9):665-78.

Concentration of astrocytic filaments at the retinal optic nerve junction is
coincident with the absence of intra-retinal myelination: comparative and
developmental evidence.

Morcos Y(1), Chan-Ling T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Histology, Institute for Biomedical Research,
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

The structure of the lamina cribrosa (LC) and astrocytic density were examined in
various species with and without intra-retinal myelination. Sections of optic
nerve from various species were stained with Milligan's trichrome or antibodies
to glial fibrillary acidic protein, myelin basic protein (MBP) and antibody O4.
Marmoset, flying fox, cat, and sheep, which lack intraretinal myelination, were
shown to possess a well-developed LC as well as a marked concentration of
astrocytic filaments distal to the LC. Rat and mouse, which lack intraretinal
myelination, lacked a well-developed LC but exhibited a marked concentration of
astrocytic filaments in this region. Rabbit and chicken, which exhibit
intraretinal myelination, lacked both a well-developed LC and a concentration of 
astrocytes at the retinal optic nerve junction (ROJ). A marked concentration of
astrocytes at the ROJ of human fetuses was also apparent at 13 weeks of
gestation, prior to myelination of the optic nerve; in contrast, the LC was not
fully developed even at birth. This concentration of astrocytes was located
distal to O4 and MBP immunoreactivity in human optic nerve, and coincided with
the site of initial myelination of ganglion cell axons in marmoset and rat.
Myelination proceeded from the chiasm towards the retinal end of the human optic 
nerve. Moreover, the outer limit of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPC)
migration into the rabbit retina was restricted by the outer limit of astrocyte
spread. These observations indicate that a concentration of astrocytic filaments 
at the ROJ is coincident with the absence of intraretinal myelination.
Differential expression of tenascin-C by astrocytes at the ROJ appears to
contribute to the molecular barrier to OPC migration (see Bartsch et al., 1994), 
while expression of the homedomain protein Vax 1 by glial cells at the optic
nerve head appears to inhibit migration of retinal pigment epithelial cells into 
the optic nerve (see Bertuzzi et al., 1999). These observations combined with our
present comparative and developmental data lead us to suggest that the astrocytes
at the ROJ serve to regulate cellular traffic into and out of the retina.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1010835404754 
PMID: 11353290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

