

3177. J Neurophysiol. 2001 May;85(5):1793-804.

Characterization of tactile afferent fibers in the hand of the marmoset monkey.

Coleman GT(1), Bahramali H, Zhang HQ, Rowe MJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of New South Wales,
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

The marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, has increasingly been the subject of
experiments for the analysis of somatosensory system function in simian primates.
However, as response properties of the mechanoreceptive afferent fibers supplying
the skin have not been characterized for this primate, the present study was
undertaken to classify fibers innervating the glabrous skin of the marmoset hand 
and determine whether they resembled those described for other mammalian species,
including cat, macaque monkey, and human subjects. Forty-seven tactile afferent
fibers with receptive fields (RFs) on the glabrous skin of the hand were isolated
in fine median and ulnar nerve strands. Controlled tactile stimuli, including
static indentation and skin vibration, were used to classify fibers. Twenty-six
(55%) responded to static indentation in a sustained manner and were designated
slowly adapting (SA) fibers, while 21 (45%) were selectively sensitive to the
dynamic components of the stimulus. The SA fibers had well-defined boundaries to 
their RFs, lacked spontaneous activity in most cases (23/26 fibers), had an
irregular pattern of discharge to static skin indentation, and displayed graded
response levels as a function of indentation amplitude, attributes that were
consistent with the properties of slowly adapting type I (SAI) fibers described
in other species. The dynamically sensitive afferent fibers could be subdivided
into two distinct functional classes, based on their responses to vibrotactile
stimulation. The majority (15/21) responded best to lower frequency vibration
(~10-50 Hz) and had small RFs, whereas the second class responded preferentially 
to higher frequency vibration (50-700 Hz) with maximal sensitivity at ~200-300
Hz. These two classes resembled, respectively, the rapidly adapting (RA) and
Pacinian corpuscle-related (PC) fiber classes found in other species, and like
them, responded to vibration with tightly phase-locked patterns of response over 
a wide range of frequencies. The results demonstrate that the functional classes 
of tactile afferent fibers that supply the glabrous skin in the marmoset monkey
appear to correspond with those described previously for the cat and macaque
monkey, and are similar to those supplying the human hand and fingers, although
the SA fibers in the human hand appear to fall into two classes, the SAI and SAII
fibers. With the increasing use of the marmoset monkey as a primate model for
somatosensory system studies, these data now allow tactile neurons identified at 
central locations, such as the cerebral cortex and thalamus, to be classified in 
relation to inputs from the peripheral classes identified in the present study.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.2001.85.5.1793 
PMID: 11352997  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

