

3178. Biomed Sci Instrum. 2001;37:119-24.

Development of a wireless system for auditory neuroscience.

Lukes AJ(1), Lear AT, Snider RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Montana State University,
Bozeman, MT 59717, USA.

In order to study how the auditory cortex extracts communication sounds in a
realistic acoustic environment, a wireless system is being developed that will
transmit acoustic as well as neural signals. The miniature transmitter will be
capable of transmitting two acoustic signals with 37.5 KHz bandwidths (75 KHz
sample rate) and 56 neural signals with bandwidths of 9.375 KHz (18.75 KHz sample
rate). These signals will be time-division multiplexed into one high bandwidth
signal with a 1.2 MHz sample rate. This high bandwidth signal will then be
frequency modulated onto a 2.4 GHz carrier, which resides in the industrial,
scientic, and medical (ISM) band that is designed for low-power short-range
wireless applications. On the receiver side, the signal will be demodulated from 
the 2.4 GHz carrier and then digitized by an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter.
The acoustic and neural signals will be digitally demultiplexed from the
multiplexed signal into their respective channels. Oversampling (20 MHz) will
allow the reconstruction of the multiplexing clock by a digital signal processor 
(DSP) that will perform frame and bit synchronization. A frame is a subset of the
signal that contains all the channels and several channels tied high and low will
signal the start of a frame. This technological development will bring two
benefits to auditory neuroscience. It will allow simultaneous recording of many
neurons that will permit studies of population codes. It will also allow neural
functions to be determined in higher auditory areas by correlating neural and
acoustic signals without apriori knowledge of the necessary stimuli.


PMID: 11347373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

