

3182. Lab Anim. 2001 Apr;35(2):117-30.

The selection of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) in pharmaceutical
toxicology.

Smith D(1), Trennery P, Farningham D, Klapwijk J.

Author information: 
(1)Safety Assessment UK, AstraZeneca, Macclesfield, Cheshire.

Prior to controlled clinical trials in human volunteers or patients it is
required that novel pharmaceuticals are evaluated for pre-clinical safety in a
rodent and a non-rodent ('second') species. In most cases the rodent species used
has been the rat and the second species has been the dog or macaque (usually
cynomolgus or rhesus) monkey. However, there is an increasing trend within the
United Kingdom (UK) pharmaceutical industry to use the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) for pre-clinical toxicology programmes. This paper examines 
the practicality of using the common marmoset (henceforth referred to as 'the
marmoset') in toxicological testing and reviews metabolic and pharmacodynamic
similarities between this species and humans. It then discusses some of the
advantages and disadvantages of the use of this species when compared with two
other alternatives to the dog and macaque, namely the ferret and minipig. In
particular, the marmoset has clear advantages over the macaque in terms of animal
welfare and practicality. There is regulatory acceptance of this species for
Investigational New Drug (IND), Clinical Trial Exemption (CTX), New Drug
Application (NDA) and Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) registrations.
Whilst the dog is likely to be maintained as the primary non-rodent species in
toxicology, the marmoset has been, and will likely continue to be, adopted as an 
additional non-rodent species in pre-clinical toxicology programmes where
appropriate.

DOI: 10.1258/0023677011911444 
PMID: 11315160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

