

3183. Exp Neurol. 2001 May;169(1):122-34.

Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA normalizes preproenkephalin mRNA
expression in the sensorimotor striatum of primates with unilateral 6-OHDA
lesions.

Pirker W(1), Tedroff J, Pontén H, Gunne L, Andrén PE, Hurd YL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, S-17176, 
Sweden.

The substituted phenylpiperidine (-)-OSU6162 is a novel modulator of the
dopaminergic systems with low affinity for dopamine D(2) receptors and potent
normalizing effects on l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. We studied the effects of
coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA on the regulation of striatal
preproenkephalin (PPE) and prodynorphin (PDyn) mRNA expression in the primate
brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Common marmoset monkeys sustaining
unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway received
l-DOPA/carbidopa, l-DOPA/carbidopa plus (-)-OSU6162, or vehicle over 14 days. In 
vehicle-treated animals, PPE mRNA levels were markedly increased in the
sensorimotor territory of the lesioned striatum. By contrast, a rather uniform
lesion-induced reduction of PDyn mRNA levels was found in the vehicle group.
Subchronic l-DOPA treatment induced a further increase in PPE mRNA expression in 
a number of sensorimotor and associative subregions of the denervated striatum.
Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 with l-DOPA partially reversed the lesion- and
l-DOPA-induced elevation of PPE expression and, by affecting PPE mRNA expression 
differentially on the intact and lesioned striatum, markedly reduced the
side-to-side difference in PPE mRNA expression. The effects on PPE mRNA
expression were apparent throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the putamen and
the dorsal portions of the caudate nucleus. l-DOPA treatment resulted in an
enhancement in PDyn mRNA expression in all functional compartments of the
striatum. Coadministration of (-)-OSU6162 had no apparent influence on these
l-DOPA-induced changes in PDyn mRNA expression. The present results suggest that 
(-)-OSU6162 acts primarily by modifying striatal output via the indirect pathway.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2001.7647 
PMID: 11312565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

