

3186. Brain Res. 2001 Apr 13;898(1):136-51.

Visual agnosia and Klüver-Bucy syndrome in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
following ablation of inferotemporal cortex, with additional mnemonic effects of 
immunotoxic lesions of cholinergic projections to medial temporal areas.

Ridley RM(1), Warner KA, Maclean CJ, Gaffan D, Baker HF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Innes Building, School of Veterinary
Medicine, Madingley Road, CB3 0ES, Cambridge, UK. rmr21@cam.ac.uk

Inferotemporal ablations in the New World monkey, the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), produced a persistent impairment on visual discrimination learning and 
a florid, but transient, Klüver-Bucy syndrome. Monkeys with these ablations were 
impaired on acquisition of object discriminations to a high criterion and on
concurrent discrimination learning, to a single high criterion across all trials.
Neither the control monkeys nor the monkeys with inferotemporal ablations found
acquisition more difficult when the component discriminations of a set were
presented concurrently compared to consecutively, although the monkeys with
inferotemporal ablations found acquisition under both these conditions somewhat
more difficult than did control monkeys. This suggests that the severe impairment
caused by inferotemporal ablations on concurrent learning measured across all
trials is due to the need for sustained performance across a concurrent set
rather than to the extra mnemonic demands of concurrent presentation. When
immunotoxic lesions of the cholinergic projection to the hippocampal formation
were added to the inferotemporal ablations, a further impairment on retention,
and a differential impairment on concurrent, compared to consecutive, learning
was observed. Previous studies have shown that lesions of the cholinergic
projection to the hippocampus alone, or excitotoxic hippocampal lesions, do not
affect simple visual discrimination learning. It is suggested that large
inferotemporal ablations in monkeys produce a visual agnosia which causes severe 
'psychic blindness' in the first instance, and a persistent impairment on visual 
discrimination learning. The hippocampus makes a contribution, which may be
mnemonic, to discrimination performance after inferotemporal ablations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(01)02187-4 
PMID: 11292457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

