

3196. Braz J Biol. 2000 Nov;60(4):667-72.

Parental care in the buffy-tufted-ear marmoset (Callithrix aurita) in wild and
captive groups.

Santos CV(1), Martins MM.

Author information: 
(1)Dinâmica Projetos Ambientais, Florianópolis, SC, Brazil.

Studies on cooperative care of offspring in callitrichid primates are biased in
favor of observations in captivity. In the wild, however, individuals have to
deal with environmental pressures, which may influence their social behavior. We 
compared the individual effort attributed to parental care offered by members of 
a wild group (couple, plus a subadult helper) and two captive groups (A: couple, 
plus an subadult helper, B: couple, plus four adult helpers) of the
buffy-tufted-ear marmoset, Callithrix aurita, from weeks 1-12 after the infants' 
birth. The carrier (breeding male and female or helper) and the infant's feeding 
(food sharing and foraging for food) were recorded. Up to week four, while the
wild breeding pair shared infant carrying at similar proportions, the male from
captive group A carried 100% of the time. Adult helpers from group B were the
main carriers. Carrying behavior extended up to week 12 only in the wild group.
Food provisioning to the infant was observed earlier in the groups wild and A,
but general proportion of feeding records was lower in the wild than in
captivity. Energetic cost of travelling and searching for food may be associated 
with equal division of carrying behavior by the wild breeding pair. Higher
proportions of carrying in the groups wild and B may have delayed the development
of the infants' motor skills required in foraging. Our data agree with previous
studies: the father's lower investment in carrying when adult helpers are present
and lower contribution of subadult non-reproductive members.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-71082000000400018 
PMID: 11241967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

