

3198. J Endocrinol. 2001 Mar;168(3):409-16.

Mid-luteal angiogenesis and function in the primate is dependent on vascular
endothelial growth factor.

Dickson SE(1), Bicknell R, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, 37
Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, UK.

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is essential for the angiogenesis
required for the formation of the corpus luteum; however, its role in ongoing
luteal angiogenesis and in the maintenance of the established vascular network is
unknown. The aim of this study was to determine whether VEGF inhibition could
intervene in ongoing luteal angiogenesis using immunoneutralisation of VEGF
starting in the mid-luteal phase. In addition, the effects on endothelial cell
survival and the recruitment of periendothelial support cells were examined.
Treatment with a monoclonal antibody to VEGF, or mouse gamma globulin for control
animals, commenced on day 7 after ovulation and continued for 3 days.
Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), used to label proliferating cells to obtain a
proliferation index, was administered one hour before collecting ovaries from
control and treated animals. Ovarian sections were stained using antibodies to
BrdU, the endothelial cell marker, CD31, the pericyte marker, alpha-smooth muscle
actin, and 3' end DNA fragments as a marker for apoptosis. VEGF
immunoneutralisation significantly suppressed endothelial cell proliferation and 
the area occupied by endothelial cells while increasing pericyte coverage and the
incidence of endothelial cell apoptosis. Luteal function was markedly compromised
by anti-VEGF treatment as judged by a 50% reduction in plasma progesterone
concentration. It is concluded that ongoing angiogenesis in the mid-luteal phase 
is primarily driven by VEGF, and that a proportion of endothelial cells of the
mid-luteal phase vasculature are dependent on VEGF support.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1680409 
PMID: 11241172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

