

3200. J Neurol Sci. 2001 Feb 15;184(1):41-9.

Demyelination and axonal damage in a non-human primate model of multiple
sclerosis.

Mancardi G(1), Hart B, Roccatagliata L, Brok H, Giunti D, Bontrop R, Massacesi L,
Capello E, Uccelli A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences and Vision, University of Genoa, Via De
Toni 5, 16132 Genoa, Italy. neurolab@cisi.unige.it

The demyelinating plaque is the paradigmatic lesion of multiple sclerosis (MS),
but only recently attention has been given to axonal damage and to its role in
the pathophysiology of disease. Albeit the possible relevance of axonal loss in
MS and its experimental models, the amount and timing of axonal sufferance has
been addressed only in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) of
rodents. In this report we observed that, in the marmoset model of EAE, axonal
damage occurs early during the demyelinating process as assessed by
immunoreactivity for amyloid precursor protein (APP) and non-phosphorylated
neurofilaments (SMI-32 positive) detected mostly in early active lesions compared
to late active and normal appearing white matter. The rare occurrence of
morphological features of axonal transection, such as APP or SMI-32 positive
spheroids and swellings, as well as an increase of neurofilament density in the
demyelinated axons without accumulation of electron dense organelles or
osmiophilic bodies, at electron microscopy, suggests that early axonal damage may
be, at least in part, a reversible process. These findings are of relevance for
the development of therapies, which can protect axons and enhance their function 
and survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(00)00490-1 
PMID: 11231031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

