

3202. Mol Hum Reprod. 2001 Mar;7(3):227-36.

Differential expression of oestrogen receptor alpha and beta proteins in the
testes and male reproductive system of human and non-human primates.

Saunders PT(1), Sharpe RM, Williams K, Macpherson S, Urquart H, Irvine DS, Millar
MR.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, 37 Chalmers Street, Edinburgh EH3 9ET,
UK. p.saunders@ed.ac.uk

The role(s) oestrogens play in male adult reproductive function remains
uncertain. We have used antibodies specific for oestrogen receptor- alpha
(ERalpha) and - beta (ERbeta) to investigate their distribution within the male. 
In testes from adult human, macaque and marmoset, ERbeta protein was detected in 
Sertoli cells, Leydig cells and peritubular myoid cells. In germ cells, the
intensity of immunostaining for ERbeta was variable between species.
Immunoexpression in preleptotene, leptotene and zygotene spermatocytes was
low/absent in all species. Elongated spermatids were consistently immunonegative.
No ERalpha immunoexpression was detected in testes. ERbeta was detected in
epithelial and stromal cell nuclei throughout the male reproductive system
[efferent ductules (ED), epididymis, vas deferens, seminal vesicles] and in the
bladder. ERalpha was detected in non-ciliated epithelial cells in the ED, but
rarely in epithelial and basal cells within the epididymis. Epithelial cells from
seminal vesicles and bladder were immunonegative for ERalpha. Expression of
ERalpha in stromal cells was rare in the ED, epididymis and bladder but more
frequent in seminal vesicles. Expression of ERalpha, and long and short forms of 
ERbeta, was confirmed by Western blotting. The widespread expression of ERbeta
suggests that it is the primary target for modulation of tissue function via
oestrogenic ligands in the male reproductive system.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/7.3.227 
PMID: 11228242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

