

3207. Eur J Immunol. 2001 Feb;31(2):474-9.

Characterization of the response to myelin basic protein in a non human primate
model for multiple sclerosis.

Uccelli A(1), Giunti D, Mancardi G, Caroli F, Fiorone M, Seri M, Hauser SL,
Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences and Vision, Gaslini Institute, University 
of Genoa, Italy. auccelli@neurologia.unige.it

The common marmoset Callithrix jacchus (C. jacchus) is an outbred species
characterized by a naturally occurring bone marrow chimerism and susceptibility
to a form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) resembling multiple 
sclerosis (MS). T cell clones specific for the myelin antigen, myelin basic
protein (MBP), can be derived from both naive and immunized marmosets and can
adoptively transfer EAE to compatible chimeric siblings. Here, we demonstrate
that several different antigenic determinants of MBP are recognized by these
encephalitogenic T cell clones. Furthermore, PCR-based analysis of TCR Vbeta
families does not show the preferential usage of any gene segment.
Characterization of third complementarity determining regions (CDR3) fails to
demonstrate a recurring motif characteristic of the T cell immune response to MBP
in this species. Nevertheless, brief amino acid motifs are shared among marmoset 
clones and CDR3 sequences from MS samples. These data suggest that, due to its
outbred condition, the C. jacchus marmoset mounts a diverse pathogenic response
to MBP. However, the findings that certain CDR3 sequences are identically
expressed in different animals, or by different T cell clones, suggest that
MBP-specific T cell populations may be clonally expanded following chronic
antigenic stimulation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(200102)31:2&#60;474::aid-immu474&#62;3.0.co;2-9 
PMID: 11180112  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

