

3216. Horm Behav. 2001 Feb;39(1):70-82.

Interactions among paternal behavior, steroid hormones, and parental experience
in male marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii).

Nunes S(1), Fite JE, Patera KJ, French JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska 68182, USA.

Male black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhlii) contribute to the rearing of 
their offspring. Here we evaluated predictions of hypotheses suggesting that (1) 
T and E2 influence infant-care behavior in male marmosets, (2) levels of T and E2
are modulated by paternal experience, and (3) paternal behavior and levels of T
and E2 in male marmosets covary with stress. We observed the behavior of
marmosets in their family groups following the birth of infants and evaluated
urinary concentrations of T, E2, and the stress hormone cortisol (CORT) among
fathers before and after the birth of young. Urinary levels of T, E2, and CORT
were lower among males who carried infants at high rates than males who carried
at low rates, and T and CORT levels were negatively correlated with carrying
rates across all males. Males had significantly lower T levels while carrying the
second compared to the first litter and slightly lower rates of infant-carrying, 
possibly due to assistance provided by offspring of the first litter. There were 
increases in CORT levels of fathers after the birth of the first litter, but
decreases in CORT after the birth of the second. Our results suggest a
relationship in C. kuhlii between paternal behavior, hormones, and paternal
experience. Rates of infant-carrying appear to be linked to hormone levels, and
hormone levels in turn are affected by experience caring for young. Our data also
suggest that T, E2, and CORT have synergistic influences on infant-carrying
behavior or alternatively that associations between T and E2 and rates of
infant-carrying are influenced by stress or other glucocorticoid-related
variables. Finally, we propose a hypothesis suggesting that experience-related
changes in hormones reinforce the commitment of males to successful breeding
partnerships.

Copyright 2001 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/hbeh.2000.1631 
PMID: 11161885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

