

322. FEBS J. 2021 Jan;288(1):325-353. doi: 10.1111/febs.15341. Epub 2020 May 15.

The common marmoset as suitable nonhuman alternative for the analysis of primate 
cochlear development.

Hosoya M(1), Fujioka M(1), Murayama AY(2)(3), Okano H(2)(3), Ogawa K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Center for Brain Science, RIKEN, 
Wako, Japan.

Cochlear development is a complex process with precise spatiotemporal patterns. A
detailed understanding of this process is important for studies of congenital
hearing loss and regenerative medicine. However, much of our understanding of
cochlear development is based on rodent models. Animal models that bridge the gap
between humans and rodents are needed. In this study, we investigated the
development of hearing organs in a small New World monkey species, the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We describe the general stages of cochlear
development in comparison with those of humans and mice. Moreover, we examined
more than 25 proteins involved in cochlear development and found that expression 
patterns were generally conserved between rodents and primates. However, several 
proteins involved in supporting cell processes and neuronal development exhibited
interspecific expression differences. Human fetal samples for studies of
primate-specific cochlear development are extremely rare, especially for late
developmental stages. Our results support the use of the common marmoset as an
effective alternative for analyses of primate cochlear development.

© 2020 The Authors. The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf
of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.15341 
PMCID: PMC7818239
PMID: 32323465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

