

3220. Immunogenetics. 2000 Mar;51(3):219-30.

Sequence and diversity of DRB genes of Aotus nancymaae, a primate model for human
malaria parasites.

Nino-Vasquez JJ(1), Vogel D, Rodriguez R, Moreno A, Patarroyo ME, Pluschke G,
Daubenberger CA.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Inmunologia, Hospital San Juan de Dios, Universidad Nacional de
Colombia, Santafe de Bogota, DC. javinino@hotmail.com

The New World primate Aotus nancymaae is susceptible to infection with the human 
malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax and has therefore
been recommended by the World Health Organization as a model for evaluation of
malaria vaccine candidates. We present here a first step in the molecular
characterization of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II DRB genes
of Aotus nancymaae (owl monkey or night monkey) by nucleotide sequence analysis
of the polymorphic exon 2 segments. In a group of 15 nonrelated animals
captivated in the wild, 34 MHC DRB alleles could be identified. Six allelic
lineages were detected, two of them having human counterparts, while two other
lineages have not been described in any other New World monkey species studied.
As in the common marmoset, the diversity of DRB alleles appears to have arisen
largely by point mutations in the beta-pleated sheets and by frequent exchange of
fixed sequence motifs in the alpha-helical portion. Pairs of alleles differing
only at amino acid position b86 by an exchange of valine to glycine are present
in Aotus, as in humans. Essential amino acid residues contributing to MHC DR
peptide binding pockets number 1 and 4 are conserved or semiconserved between
HLA-DR and Aona-DRB molecules, indicating a capacity to bind similar peptide
repertoires. These results support fully our using Aotus monkeys as an animal
model for evaluation of future subunit vaccine candidates.

DOI: 10.1007/s002510050035 
PMID: 10752632  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

