

3223. J Neurosci. 2001 Jan 1;21(1):249-61.

Connectional and architectonic evidence for dorsal and ventral V3, and
dorsomedial area in marmoset monkeys.

Lyon DC(1), Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240,
USA.

The existence of a third visual area, V3, along the outer margin of V2 was
originally proposed for primates on the basis of projections from V1. The
evidence for V3 was never totally convincing because investigators failed to
demonstrate V1 projections to ventral V3, and projections to dorsal V3 could be
attributed to the dorsomedial visual area (DM). We have reexamined the issue by
placing large injections into both dorsal and ventral portions of V1 and
subsequently processing flattened cortex for myelin and cytochrome oxidase so
that borders of V1 and V2 could be determined accurately. The injections were in 
small-brained marmosets, where ventral V1 was most accessible and cortex could be
flattened easily. The results indicate that dorsal V1 (representing the lower
visual quadrant) projects to a narrow "dorsal V3" located between DM and dorsal
V2, whereas ventral V1 (representing the upper visual quadrant) projects to a
narrow "ventral V3." Architectonic borders for these dorsal and ventral strips
were clearly apparent. In addition, all parts of V1 project to DM, whereas
ventral V1 connections indicate that the dorsolateral area (DL) extends more
ventral than has been established previously. We also placed injections within
dorsal V2, dorsal and ventral DM, and dorsal, central, and ventral middle
temporal (MT) area. Results from these injections were consistent with the
proposed retinotopic organizations of V3, DM, and DL. We provide compelling
evidence for the existence of areas V3, DM, and DL in marmosets and suggest that 
these areas are likely to be found in all primates.


PMCID: PMC6762432
PMID: 11150342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

