

3224. J Neurosurg. 2001 Jan;94(1 Suppl):82-90.

Innervation of the caudal denervated ventral roots and their target muscles by
the rostral spinal motoneurons after implanting a nerve autograft in spinal
cord-injured adult marmosets.

Liu S(1), Aghakhani N, Boisset N, Said G, Tadie M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Neurosurgery, Facult√© de M ecine Paris-Sud,
University of Paris XI, France.

OBJECT: The authors conducted a study to determine the effects of using a nerve
autograft (NAG) to promote and guide axonal regrowth from the rostral spinal cord
to the caudal lumbar ventral nerve roots to restore hindlimb motor function in
adult marmosets after lower thoracic cord injury.
METHODS: Nine animals underwent a left-sided hemisection of the spinal cord at
T-12 via left-sided T9-L3 hemilaminectomy, with section of all ipsilateral
lumbrosacral ventral nerve roots. In the experimental group (five animals), an
NAG obtained from the right peroneal nerve was anastomosed with the sectioned and
electrophysiologically selected lumbar ventral roots (left L-3 and L-4)
controlling the left quadriceps muscle and then implanted into the left
ventrolateral T-10 cord. In the control group (four animals), the
sectioned/selected lumbar ventral roots were only ligated. After surgery, all
marmosets immediately suffered from complete paralysis of their left hindlimb.
Five months later, some clinical signs of reinnervation such as tension and
resistance began to appear in the paralyzed quadriceps of all experimental
animals that received autografts. Nine months postoperatively, three of the five 
experimental marmosets could maintain their lesioned hindlimb in hip flexion.
Muscle action potentials and motor evoked potentials were recorded from the
target quadriceps in all experimental marmosets, but these potentials were absent
in the control animals. Horseradish peroxidase retrograde labeling from the
distal sectioned/reconnected lumbar ventral roots traced 234+/-178 labeled
neurons in the ipsilateral T8-10 ventral horn, mainly close to the NAG tip.
Histological analysis showed numerous regenerating axons in this
denervated/reconnected nerve root pathway, as well as newly formed motor
endplates in the denervated/reinnervated quadriceps. No axonal regeneration was
detected in the control animals.
CONCLUSIONS: These data indicate that the rostral spinal neurons can regrow into 
the caudal ventral roots through an NAG, thereby innervating the target muscle in
adult marmosets after spinal cord injury.

DOI: 10.3171/spi.2001.94.1.0082 
PMID: 11147873  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

