

3225. Brain Res. 2001 Jan 5;888(1):34-50.

Visual discrimination learning impairments produced by combined transections of
the anterior temporal stem, amygdala and fornix in marmoset monkeys.

Maclean CJ(1), Gaffan D, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, Downing Street, CB2 3EB, Cambridge, UK.

Marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with bilateral transections of the anterior
temporal stem, amygdala and fornix were unable to relearn a 2-choice object
discrimination first learnt prior to surgery, and were very severely impaired at 
relearning a concurrent object discrimination task which they had learnt and
relearnt prior to surgery, indicating that they had a dense retrograde amnesia.
They also had difficulty learning new visual object discriminations but were only
mildly impaired on spatial learning. When tested on new learning of concurrent
discriminations 8 to 10 weeks after surgery, three operated monkeys were unable
to reach criterion in 400 trials while the remaining two operated monkeys
performed within the normal range. The operated monkeys were subsequently shown
to be impaired on acquisition of shape discriminations using black objects. These
anterograde effects suggest that the impairment runs mainly in the domain of
visual analysis. The monkeys also exhibited many of the features of the
Kl√ºver-Bucy syndrome. Histological analysis indicated that in addition to cutting
some of the subcortical temporal lobe efferent pathways, the surgical procedures 
had cut the cholinergic afferents to the temporal neocortex, entorhinal cortex,
and hippocampus. In a second experiment we found that treatment with the
cholinergic agonist pilocarpine, which is effective in monkeys with specific
cholinergic lesions, was unable to remediate the lesion-induced impairments. This
suggests that transection of the non-cholinergic afferents, or the temporal lobe 
subcortical efferents, contributed to the behavioural syndrome and the learning
and retention deficits seen in these monkeys.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(00)02998-x 
PMID: 11146050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

