

3226. Prog Brain Res. 2000;127:381-404.

Striatal tissue transplantation in non-human primates.

Kendall AL(1), Hantraye P, Palfi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing
Street, Cambridge CB2 3EB, UK. alk1001@cam.ac.uk

The caudate nucleus and putamen form part of a complex but topographically
connected circuitry that links the cortex, the basal ganglia and the thalamus.
Within this complex system lie a series of functionally and anatomically
segregated loops that allow the concurrent processing of a wide range of
cognitive and motor information (Alexander et al., 1986; Alexander and Crutcher, 
1990). As a constituent of these loops it has been shown that the striatum is
involved in movement initiation, response selection and attentional processes
(Robbins and Brown, 1990; Alexander, 1994; Lawrence et al., 1998). Although it is
the medium spiny GABAergic projection neurones that are primarily lost in HD, it 
is not sufficient merely to replace the GABA. Instead it is crucial for striatal 
tissue transplants to integrate with the host tissue in such a way that the
cortico-striatal-thalamic circuitry is restored and is functional. Rodent studies
have progressed a long way in establishing the principle that striatal grafts
can, at least partially, restore function and integrate appropriately with the
host (Dunnett and Svendsen, 1993; Bj√∂rklund et al., 1994; Sanberg et al., 1998)
but the limited behavioural repertoire and the undifferentiated striatum meant
that it was inevitable that studies should progress into primate models.
Anatomical tracing studies have demonstrated that motor, premotor and
somatosensory cortical areas send corticostriatal projections primarily to the
putamen region in primates, whereas the head and body of the caudate nucleus
mostly receive efferent input from associative cortical areas (Kemp and Powell,
1970; Kunzle, 1975, 1977, 1978; Selemon and Goldman-Rakic, 1985). Based on such
anatomical, and functional, studies Alexander and colleagues have proposed the
existence of at least five cortico-striatal-thalamic loops including a motor, a
dorsolateral-prefrontal and an orbito-frontal loop (Alexander et al., 1986). The 
concentration of motor inputs to the putamen region suggests a particular
involvement of this structure in the motor loop. Indeed, unilateral lesions of
the putamen disrupt motor performance in the marmoset and generate
apomorphine-induced dyskinesias in larger primates (Burns et al., 1995; Kendall
et al., 2000). The implantation of striatal grafts into marmosets that had
previously received unilateral putamen lesions ameliorated some of the motor
impairments, which suggested at least partial restoration of the motor loop. In
support of this we found direct evidence of host-graft cortico-striatal
connectivity using an anterograde tracer injected in the primary motor cortical
region (Kendall et al., 1998a). In larger primates, with lesions of the caudate
and putamen, striatal [figure: see text] allografts and xenografts have been
shown to reduce apomorphine-induced dyskinesias (Isacson et al., 1989; Hantraye
et al., 1992; Palfi et al., 1998). The mechanism by which dyskinesias are
elicited is not fully understood but alterations in firing patterns within both
segments of the globus pallidus have been identified during dyskinetic movements 
(Matsumura et al., 1995). It seems likely that it would actually require
re-establishment of afferent connections between the implanted putamen and the
globus pallidus as well as of functioning dopamine receptors within the graft for
the reduction in the dyskinetic profile to be observed. Certainly there is
evidence, from rodent studies and the marmoset study described here, that close
proximity of the graft to the globus pallidus yields better functional recovery
(Isacson et al., 1986). In addition, anatomical tracing studies in rats have
demonstrated connections between the implanted tissue and the host globus
pallidus (Wictorin et al., 1989b, 1990) However, the relationship between graft
placement and functional recovery remains to be fully substantiated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0079-6123(00)27018-0 
PMID: 11142037  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

