

3229. Biol Reprod. 2001 Jan;64(1):120-6.

Quantitative analysis of spermatogenesis and apoptosis in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) reveals high rates of spermatogonial turnover and high
spermatogenic efficiency.

Weinbauer GF(1), Aslam H, Krishnamurthy H, Brinkworth MH, Einspanier A, Hodges
JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, D-48129 MÃ¼nster,
Germany. gerhard.weinbauer@covance.com

Spermatogenesis is characterized by the succession in time and space of specific 
germ cell associations (stages). There can be a single stage (e.g., rodents and
some macaques) or more than one stage (e.g., chimpanzee and human) per tubular
cross section. We analyzed the organization of the seminiferous epithelium and
quantified testicular germ cell production and apoptosis in a New World primate, 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Tubule cross sections contained more
than one stage, and the human six-stage system could be applied to marmoset
spermatogenesis. Stereological (optical disector) analysis (n = 5) revealed high 
spermatogenic efficiency during meiosis and no loss of spermatids during
spermiogenesis. The conversion of type A to type B spermatogonia was several-fold
higher than that reported for other primates. Highest apoptotic rates were found 
for S-phase cells (20%) and 4C cells (15%) by flow cytometric analysis (n = 6
animals); histological analysis confirmed spermatogonial apoptosis. Haploid germ 
cell apoptosis was <2%. Marmoset spermatogenesis is very efficient and involves
substantial spermatogonial proliferation. The prime determinants of germ cell
production in primates appear to be proliferation and survival of spermatogonia
rather than the efficiency of meiotic divisions. Based on the organizational
similarities, common marmosets could provide a new animal model for experimental 
studies of human spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod64.1.120 
PMID: 11133666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

