

3232. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2001 Jan;280(1):R191-7.

Photic and nonphotic circadian phase resetting in a diurnal primate, the common
marmoset.

Glass JD(1), Tardif SD, Clements R, Mrosovsky N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio 442-0001,
USA. jglass@kent.edu

Despite the considerable literature on circadian entrainment, there is little
information on this subject in diurnal mammals. Contributing to this lack of
understanding is the problem of separating photic from nonphotic (behavioral)
phase-resetting events in diurnal species. In the present study, photic phase
resetting was obtained in diurnal common marmosets held under constant dim light 
(DimDim; <0.5 lx) by using a 20-s pulse of bright light to minimize time
available for behavioral arousal. This stimulus elicited phase advances at
circadian time (CT) 18-22 and phase delays at CT9-12. Daily presentation of these
20-s pulses produced entrainment with a phase angle of approximately 11 h (0 h = 
activity onset). Nonphotic phase resetting was obtained under DimDim with the use
of a 1-h-induced activity pulse, consisting of intermittent cage agitation and
water sprinkling, delivered in total darkness to minimize photic effects. This
stimulus caused phase delays at CT20-24, and entrainment to a scheduled daily
regimen of these pulses occurred with a phase angle of approximately 0 h. These
results indicate that photic and nonphotic phase-response curves (PRCs) of
marmosets are similar to those of nocturnal rodents and that nonphotic PRCs are
keyed to the phase of the suprachiasmatic nucleus pacemaker, not to the phase of 
the activity-rest cycle.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.2001.280.1.R191 
PMID: 11124151  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

