

3234. Virology. 2000 Dec 20;278(2):445-55.

Herpesvirus saimiri pathogenicity enhanced by thymidine kinase of herpes simplex 
virus.

Hiller C(1), Tamgüney G, Stolte N, Mätz-Rensing K, Lorenzen D, Hör S, Thurau M,
Wittmann S, Slavin S, Fickenscher H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Schlossgarten 4, Erlangen,
D-91054, Germany.

Herpesvirus saimiri can be used as an efficient gene expression vector for human 
T lymphocytes and thus may allow applications in experimental leukemia therapy.
We constructed recombinant viruses for the functional expression of the thymidine
kinase (TK) of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV) as a suicide gene. These viruses
reliably allowed the targeted elimination of transduced nonpermissive human T
cells in vitro after the administration of ganciclovir. To test the reliability
of this function under the most stringent permissive conditions, in this study we
analyzed the influence of the prodrugs ganciclovir and acyclovir in common
marmosets on the acute leukemogenesis induced by either wild-type herpesvirus
saimiri C488 or by a recombinant derivative expressing TK of HSV. Antiviral drug 
treatment did not influence the rapid development of acute disease. In contrast, 
the presence of the HSV tk gene resulted in a faster disease progression. In
addition, HSV TK-expressing viruses showed faster replication than wild-type
virus in culture at low serum concentrations. Thus, HSV TK accelerates the
replication of herpesvirus saimiri and enhances its pathogenicity. This should be
generally considered when HSV TK is applied as a transgene in
replication-competent DNA virus vectors for gene therapy.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.2000.0665 
PMID: 11118367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

