

3235. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2000 Sep;67(1):121-9.

Effects of ropinirole on motor behavior in MPTP-treated common marmosets.

Fukuzaki K(1), Kamenosono T, Kitazumi K, Nagata R.

Author information: 
(1)Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories Ltd., 2438 Miyanoura, 891-1394, Kagoshima,
Japan.

The effects of ropinirole (4-[2-(dipropylamino)ethyl]-2-indolinone
monohydrochloride), a nonergoline dopamine receptor agonist with a high affinity 
for native dopamine D(2)-like receptors, on Parkinsonism induced by
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 2.5 mg/animal in common
marmosets were examined and compared to the effects of bromocriptine. Ropinirole 
(0.1-3 mg/kg, PO) increased motor activity dose dependently and reversed akinesia
or uncoordinated movement in MPTP-treated marmosets. The activities for
ropinirole were very similar to those of bromocriptine. Ropinirole had, however, 
several properties that differed from those of bromocriptine. Ropinirole caused a
more rapid onset of anti-Parkinsonian activity compared to bromocriptine, and had
a potency more than five times greater than that of bromocriptine in the
improvement of motor deficits. The combination of ropinirole and L-DOPA increased
the effectiveness of ropinirole or L-DOPA alone, and produced a more marked
additive effect on motor activity than did bromocriptine and L-DOPA. Chronic
administration of ropinirole for 21 days produced a statistically significant
increase in motor activity compared to the initial administration, and akinesia
scores, measured through rating the quality of movements, were also improved
without obvious dyskinesia. This study suggests that ropinirole is a dopamine
D(2)-like receptor agonistic drug of potential use in the treatment of
Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(00)00305-1 
PMID: 11113491  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

