

3237. Br J Pharmacol. 2000 Dec;131(7):1262-74.

Differential vasoconstrictor activity of human urotensin-II in vascular tissue
isolated from the rat, mouse, dog, pig, marmoset and cynomolgus monkey.

Douglas SA(1), Sulpizio AC, Piercy V, Sarau HM, Ames RS, Aiyar NV, Ohlstein EH,
Willette RN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Pharmacology, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals,
709 Swedeland Road, King of Prussia, PA 19406-0939, USA.
steve_douglas-1@sbphrd.com

1. Urotensin-II (U-II) and its G-protein-coupled receptor, GPR14, are expressed
within mammalian cardiac and peripheral vascular tissue and, as such, may
regulate mammalian cardiovascular function. The present study details the
vasoconstrictor profile of this cyclic undecapeptide in different vascular
tissues isolated from a diverse range of mammalian species (rats, mice, dogs,
pigs, marmosets and cynomolgus monkeys). 2. The vasoconstrictor activity of human
U-II was dependent upon the anatomical origin of the vessel studied and the
species from which it was isolated. In the rat, constrictor responses were most
pronounced in thoracic aortae and carotid arteries: -log[EC(50)]s 9.09+/-0.19 and
8.84+/-0.21, R(max)s 143+/-21 and 67+/-26% 60 mM KCl, respectively (compared, for
example, to -log[EC(50)] 7.90+/-0.11 and R(max) 142+/-12% 60 mM KCl for
endothelin-1 [ET-1] in thoracic aortae). Responses were, however, absent in mice 
aortae (-log[EC(50)] <6.50). These findings were further contrasted by the
observation that U-II was a 'coronary-selective' spasmogen in the dog
(-log[EC(50)] 9.46+/-0.11, R(max) 109+/-23% 60 mM KCl in LCX coronary artery),
yet exhibited a broad spectrum of vasoconstrictor activity in arterial tissue
from Old World monkeys (-log[EC(50)]s range from 8.96+/-0.15 to 9.92+/-0.13,
R(max)s from 43+/-16 to 527+/-135% 60 mM KCl). Interestingly, significant
differences in reproducibility and vasoconstrictor efficacy were seen in tissue
from pigs and New World primates (vessels which responded to noradrenaline,
phenylephrine, KCl or ET-1 consistently). 3. Thus, human U-II is a potent,
efficacious vasoconstrictor of a variety of mammalian vascular tissues. Although 
significant species/anatomical variations exist, the data support the hypothesis 
that U-II influences the physiological regulation of mammalian cardiovascular
function.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0703690 
PMCID: PMC1572453
PMID: 11090097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

