

3242. J Virol Methods. 2000 Nov;90(2):193-204.

Production monitoring and purification of EBV encoded latent membrane protein 1
expressed and secreted by recombinant baculovirus infected insect cells.

Meij P(1), Vervoort MB, Meijer CJ, Bloemena E, Middeldorp JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University Hospital Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam,
The Netherlands. p.meij@azvu.nl

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) encoded latent membrane protein 1 (LMP1) is expressed in
malignancies with latency type II and III and is an important transforming
protein. To further study this protein LMP1 was expressed by and purified from
recombinant baculovirus infected Sf9 cells. Expression levels of LMP1 in EBV
transformed B cell lines and Sf9 cells were analyzed using a newly developed
quantitative LMP1-capture ELISA. Highest expression was found in the cell line
X50/7 (6.2 ng/10(7) cells), whereas expression levels of recombinant LMP1 (bLMP1)
in Sf9 cells reached 506 ng/10(7) cells. Surprisingly bLMP1 could also be
detected in the culture medium as a stable full-length protein. Highest
expression in Sf9 cells (506 ng/10(7) cells) was observed at 48 h post infection 
and in the culture medium (1590 ng/ml) at 96 h post infection. Before
purification bLMP1 was solubilised using 0.22 m octyl-beta-glucoside at pH 6.0.
Purification of bLMP1 using Q-Sepharose FF yielded 10-80 times enriched bLMP1
fractions, indicating that Q-Sepharose can be used for pre-purification. A
one-step monoclonal antibody based immunoaffinity chromatography yielded highly
purified bLMP1. Although the overall yields (20 microg purified LMP1 from 100 ml 
culture supernatant) and protein concentrations were low, higher concentrations
of >95% purified BLMP1 could be reached after freeze drying.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-0934(00)00233-0 
PMID: 11064119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

