

3261. Biol Reprod. 2000 Oct;63(4):1098-105.

Differential expression of estrogen receptor-alpha and -beta and androgen
receptor in the ovaries of marmosets and humans.

Saunders PT(1), Millar MR, Williams K, Macpherson S, Harkiss D, Anderson RA, Orr 
B, Groome NP, Scobie G, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Edinburgh, EH3 9ET, United Kingdom.
Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, OX3 0BP, United Kingdom. p.saunders@ed.ac.uk

Estrogens and androgens are essential for the maturation of the ovarian follicle 
and normal fertility in the female. We have used antibodies specific for both
forms of estrogen receptor (alpha [ERalpha] and beta [ERbeta]) and androgen
receptor (AR) to investigate the pattern of receptor expression in ovaries
obtained from women and from a New World primate, the Common marmoset (Callthrix 
jacchus). On Western blots, three antibodies directed against different peptides 
within human ERbeta all recognized recombinant human (h) ERbeta but did not bind 
to recombinant hERalpha. The ERbeta protein was extracted from human ovary and
prostate and marmoset ovary. In marmoset and human ovaries, ERbeta protein was
detected in the nuclei of granulosa cells in all sizes of follicle (both before
and after formation of the antrum), and it was also detected in thecal cells,
corpora lutea, surface epithelium, and stroma. In contrast, ERalpha protein was
not detected in the nuclei of granulosa cells in preantral follicles, was
low/absent from stromal and thecal cells, but was expressed in granulosa cells of
antral follicles and in the surface epithelium. The pattern of expression of AR
protein more closely resembled that of ERbeta than ERalpha. In conclusion, three 
independent antibodies have demonstrated convincingly that ERbeta is expressed in
a wide range of cells in the primate ovary. Granulosa cells in preantral
follicles could contain ERbeta:beta dimers. In antral follicles, however, ERalpha
is also expressed, and the formation of homo- or heterodimers containing ERalpha 
may influence the pattern of gene activation within these cells.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod63.4.1098 
PMID: 10993832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

