

3264. Comp Med. 2000 Feb;50(1):59-68.

Fatal lymphoproliferative disease associated with a novel gammaherpesvirus in a
captive population of common marmosets.

Ramer JC(1), Garber RL, Steele KE, Boyson JF, O'Rourke C, Thomson JA.

Author information: 
(1)The Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, USA.

Erratum in
    Comp Med. 2000 Aug;50(4):455.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Callitrichids (marmosets and tamarins) are extremely
susceptible to experimental tumor induction by herpesviruses native to other
primate species. A colony of common marmosets developed a syndrome of weight
loss, inappetence, diarrhea, and in several animals, palpable abdominal masses.
METHODS: Marmosets in the colony were subjected to histologic examination and
serologic testing for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). The DNA from tumors that
developed in the marmosets was subjected to consensus primer polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) analysis designed to amplify conserved regions of herpesvirus
genomes.
RESULTS: The mesenteric lymph nodes and intestinal mucosa were consistently
infiltrated by principally B lymphocytes, which often obliterated the normal
architecture. Of 84 clinically normal marmosets, 52 were seropositive for EBV.
The tumor DNA contained previously unreported herpesvirus sequences closely
related to but distinct from those of EBV, Herpesvirus papio, and these
lymphocryptovirus, a novel gammaherpesvirus. Results of PCR analysis of
circulating lymphocytes from EBV-positive, clinically normal marmosets were
negative for EBV antibodies and were positive for marmoset lymphocryptovirus; PCR
analysis of circulating lymphocytes from EBV-negative marmosets yielded negative 
results for EBV and this novel marmoset lymphocryptovirus.
CONCLUSION: This novel gammaherpesvirus possibly associated with tumor
development may have important management implications for captive callitrichids.


PMID: 10987671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

