

3271. Exp Neurol. 2000 Sep;165(1):136-42.

Antiparkinsonian actions of ifenprodil in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of
Parkinson's disease.

Nash JE(1), Fox SH, Henry B, Hill MP, Peggs D, McGuire S, Maneuf Y, Hille C,
Brotchie JM, Crossman AR.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Movement Disorder Laboratory, Room 1.124, Division of Neuroscience,
School of Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester,
M13 9PT, United Kingdom.

Dopamine-replacement strategies form the basis of most symptomatic treatments for
Parkinson's disease. However, since long-term dopamine-replacement therapies are 
characterized by many side effects, most notably dyskinesia, the concept of a
nondopaminergic therapy for Parkinson's disease has attracted great interest. To 
date, it has proved difficult to devise a nondopaminergic therapy with efficacy
comparable to that of dopamine replacement. In animal models of Parkinson's
disease, loss of striatal dopamine leads to enhanced excitation of striatal
NR2B-containing NMDA receptors. This is responsible, in part at least, for
generating parkinsonian symptoms. Here we demonstrate that, in the MPTP-lesioned 
marmoset, monotherapy with the NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist,
ifenprodil, administered de novo, has antiparkinsonian effects equivalent to
those of l-DOPA (administered as its methyl ester form). In MPTP-lesioned
marmosets, median mobility scores, following vehicle-treatment were 12.5/h (range
6-21), compared to 61/h (range 26-121) in normal, non-MPTP-lesioned animals.
Following ifenprodil (10 mg/kg) treatment in MPTP-lesioned marmosets, the median 
mobility score was 66/h (range 34-93), and following l-DOPA (10 mg/kg i.p.)
treatment 89/h (range 82-92). The data support the proposal that NR2B-selective
NMDA receptor antagonists have potential as a nondopaminergic monotherapy for the
treatment of parkinsonian symptoms when given de novo.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7444 
PMID: 10964492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

