

328. Am J Primatol. 2020 Jun;82(6):e23131. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23131. Epub 2020 Apr 9.

Evaluation of vitamin D3 metabolites in Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset).

Goodroe AE(1), Fitz C(2), Power ML(3), Colman RJ(2)(4), Capuano S 3rd(2), Ziegler
TE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Resources, Southwest National Primate Research Center, San Antonio,
Texas.
(2)Veterinary Services Unit, Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, Madison,
Wisconsin.
(3)Conservation Ecology Center, Smithsonian National Zoological Park and
Conservation Biology Institute, Washington, District of Columbia.
(4)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, School of Medicine and Public
Health, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.

Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) is endogenously produced in the skin of primates
when exposed to the appropriate wavelengths of ultraviolet light (UV-B). Common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) maintained indoors require dietary provision of
vitamin D3 due to lack of sunlight exposure. The minimum dietary vitamin D3
requirement and the maximum amount of vitamin D3 that can be metabolized by
marmosets is unknown. Observations of metabolic bone disease and gastrointestinal
malabsorption have led to wide variation in dietary vitamin D3 provision amongst 
research institutions, with resulting variation in circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin 
D3 (25(OH)D3 ), the accepted marker for vitamin D sufficiency/deficiency.
Multiple studies have reported serum 25(OH)D3 in captive marmosets, but 25(OH)D3 
is not the final product of vitamin D3 metabolism. In addition to serum 25(OH)D3,
we measured the most physiologically active metabolite, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 
(1,25(OH)2 D3 ), and the less well understood metabolite, 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin 
D3 (24,25(OH)2 D3 ) to characterize the marmoset's ability to metabolize dietary 
vitamin D3 . We present vitamin D3 metabolite and related serum chemistry value
colony reference ranges in marmosets provided diets with 26,367 (Colony A,
N = 113) or 8,888 (Colony B, N = 52) international units (IU) of dietary vitamin 
D3 per kilogram of dry matter. Colony A marmosets had higher serum 25(OH)D3
(426 ng/ml [SD 200] vs. 215 ng/ml [SD 113]) and 24,25(OH)2 D3 (53 ng/ml [SD 35]
vs. 7 ng/ml [SD 5]). There was no difference in serum 1,25(OH)2 D3 between the
colonies. Serum 1,25(OH)2 D3 increased and 25(OH)D3 decreased with age, but the
effect was weak. Marmosets tightly regulate metabolism of dietary vitamin D3 into
the active metabolite 1,25(OH)2 D3 ; excess 25(OH)D3 is metabolized into
24,25(OH)2 D3 . This ability explains the tolerance of high levels of dietary
vitamin D3 by marmosets, however, our data suggest that these high dietary levels
are not required.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23131 
PMCID: PMC7384697
PMID: 32270886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

