

3285. Vis Neurosci. 2000 May-Jun;17(3):437-48.

Distribution of the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor on midget and parasol 
ganglion cells in the retina of the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Macri J(1), Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been shown to 
influence the responses of ganglion cells in the mammalian retina. Consistently, 
GABA(A) receptor subunits have been localized to different ganglion cell types.
In this study, the distribution of the alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor on 
the dendrites of midget and parasol ganglion cells was investigated
quantitatively in the retina of a New World monkey, the marmoset. Ganglion cells 
were injected with Neurobiotin in a live in vitro retinal whole-mount
preparation. Retinal pieces were then processed with an antibody against the
alpha1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. Strong punctate immunoreactivity
indicative of synaptic localization is present in the ON and OFF sublamina of the
inner plexiform layer. Many of the immunoreactive puncta coincide with the
dendrites of both midget and parasol ganglion cells. Immunoreactive puncta are
present on distal and proximal dendrites of ON and OFF cells of both ganglion
cell types. On average, parasol cells show a slight increase in the spatial
density of immunoreactive puncta with distance from the soma, whereas the density
of immunoreactive puncta on midget cells stays even. Parasol ganglion cells show 
a slightly higher average density of immunoreactive puncta (0.083 puncta/microm
dendrite) than midget cells (0.054 puncta/microm dendrite).

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800173109 
PMID: 10910110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

