

3286. Vis Neurosci. 2000 May-Jun;17(3):345-52.

Effect of monocular deprivation on NMDAR1 immunostaining in ocular dominance
columns of the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Fonta C(1), Chappert C, Imbert M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, UMR 5549 Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique/Université Paul Sabatier, Faculté de Médecine Rangueil,
Toulouse, France. fonta@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

We previously showed that immunoreactivity to N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptors in primary visual cortex of Callithrix jacchus is regulated by visual
activity during the second and third postnatal months (Fonta et al., 1997). The
purpose of the present study was to show that the columnar pattern of high and
low NMDAR1 immunoreactivity observed in monocularly deprived animals corresponds 
to ocular dominance columns linked to the nondeprived and deprived eye,
respectively. We compared cortical distribution of NMDAR1 receptors and the
projection zones of thalamic afferents, revealed by transneuronal transport of
tritiated proline, in 2-month-old, either monocularly deprived or control,
marmosets. The data show that ocular dominance columns exist in 2-month-old
marmosets and that a 2-week monocular deprivation by means of eyelid suture leads
to a modification of the thalamo-cortical afferents organization. Experiments of 
neuronal tracing and immunohistochemistry performed on the same animals
demonstrated that cortical domains with decreased NMDAR1 level correspond to the 
deprived eye columns. These investigations, coupled to the previous results,
strongly suggest that the NMDA receptors, regulated by visual activity, are
involved in the refining of ocular dominance columns in the primary visual cortex
of juvenile marmoset.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800173031 
PMID: 10910103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

