

3288. J Vet Med Sci. 2000 Jun;62(6):607-14.

Thyroid hyperactivity induced by methimazole, spironolactone and phenobarbital in
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): histopathology, plasma thyroid hormone levels and
hepatic T4 metabolism.

Kurata Y(1), Wako Y, Tanaka K, Inoue Y, Makinodan F.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Kashima-gun, Ibaraki, Japan.

To determine drug-induced hyperfunction of marmoset thyroids due to inhibition of
synthesis or enhancement of metabolic elimination of thyroid hormones, males were
orally administered 10 and 30 mg/kg/day methimazole (MMI), 30 and 100 mg/kg/day
spironolactone (SPL), or 50 mg/kg/day phenobarbital (PB) for 4 weeks. MMI caused 
marked hypertrophy of follicular epithelial cells in accordance with a
significant decrease in the plasma thyroxin (T4) level. Hypertrophied epithelial 
cells were filled with dilated rough endoplasmic reticulum and reabsorbed
intracellular colloids, and the luminal surface was covered with abundant
microvilli. The colloid included vacuoles positive to anti T4 immuno-staining.
SPL and PB also caused similar histomorphological changes, although they were
less severe than those due to MMI and were not clearly associated with decrease
in the plasma T4 levels. Hepatic T4 UDPGT activities tended to increase due to
SPL and PB treatment, however, which were not so significant as increases in
microsomal cytochrome P-450 contents. Some animals treated with SPL and PB showed
marked increases in thyroid weights due to inactive dilated follicles. In
conclusion, hyperactivity of thyroid follicles was induced in marmosets not only 
due to inhibition of T4 synthesis produced by MMI but also because of enhancement
of hepatic T4 elimination produced by SPL and PB. However, hypertrophic effects
of SPL and PB were less severe than MMI, because plasma T4 levels were maintained
at almost pretreatment or control levels after SPL or PB treatment.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.62.607 
PMID: 10907687  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

