

3289. J Virol. 2000 Aug;74(16):7548-53.

Measles virus-induced immunosuppression in vitro is independent of complex
glycosylation of viral glycoproteins and of hemifusion.

Weidmann A(1), Fischer C, Ohgimoto S, Rüth C, ter Meulen V, Schneider-Schaulies
S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Virology and Immunobiology, University of Würzburg, D-97078
Würzburg, Germany.

Expression of the measles virus (MV) F/H complex on the surface of viral
particles, infected cells, or cells transfected to express these proteins
(presenter cells [PC]) is necessary and sufficient to induce proliferative arrest
in both human and rodent lymphoid cells (responder cells [RC]). This inhibition
was found to occur independent of apoptosis and soluble mediators excluded by a
pore size filter of 200 nm released from either PC or RC. We now show that
reactive oxygen intermediates which might be released by RC or PC also do not
contribute to MV-induced immunosuppression in vitro. Using an inhibitor of
Golgi-resident mannosidases (deoxymannojirimycin), we found that complex
glycosylation of the F and H proteins is not required for the induction of
proliferative arrest of RC. As revealed by our previous studies, proteolytic
cleavage of the MV F protein precursor into its F1 and F2 subunits, but not of
F/H-mediated cellular fusion, was found to be required, since fusion-inhibitory
peptides such as Z-D-Phe-L-Phe-Gly (Z-fFG) did not interfere with the induction
of proliferative inhibition. We now show that Z-fFG inhibits cellular fusion at
the stage of hemifusion by preventing lipid mixing of the outer membrane layer.
These results provide strong evidence for a receptor-mediated signal elicited by 
the MV F/H complex which can be uncoupled from its fusogenic activity is required
for the induction of proliferative arrest of human lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.16.7548-7553.2000 
PMCID: PMC112275
PMID: 10906208  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

