

3299. J Neurosci. 2000 Jul 15;20(14):5552-63.

Visual responses of neurons in the middle temporal area of new world monkeys
after lesions of striate cortex.

Rosa MG(1), Tweedale R, Elston GN.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch, and Hearing Research Centre, The University of Queensland, QLD 
4072, Australia. marcello.rosa@med.monash.edu.au

In primates, lesions of striate cortex (V1) result in scotomas in which only
rudimentary visual abilities remain. These aspects of vision that survive V1
lesions have been attributed to direct thalamic pathways to extrastriate areas,
including the middle temporal area (MT). However, studies in New World monkeys
and humans have questioned this interpretation, suggesting that remnants of V1
are responsible for both the activation of MT and residual vision. We studied the
visual responses of neurons in area MT in New World marmoset monkeys in the weeks
after lesions of V1. The extent of the scotoma in each case was estimated by
mapping the receptive fields of cells located near the lesion border and by
histological reconstruction. Two response types were observed among the cells
located in the part of MT that corresponds, in visuotopic coordinates, to the
lesioned part of V1. Many neurons (62%) had receptive fields that were displaced 
relative to their expected location, so that they represented the visual field
immediately surrounding the scotoma. This may be a consequence of a process
analogous to the reorganization of the V1 map after retinal lesions. However,
another 20% of the cells had receptive fields centered inside the scotoma. Most
of these neurons were strongly direction-selective, similar to normal MT cells.
These results show that MT cells differ in their responses to lesioning of V1 and
that only a subpopulation of MT neurons can be reasonably linked to residual
vision and blindsight.


PMCID: PMC6772324
PMID: 10884339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

