

33. J Comp Pathol. 2021 Nov;189:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2021.09.002. Epub 2021 Oct
19.

Immunohistochemical Characterization of a Duodenal Adenocarcinoma with Pulmonary,
Hepatic and Parapatellar Metastases in a Common Marmoset (Callithrixjacchus).

Peterson C(1), Plunkard J(2), Johanson A(2), Izzi J(2), Gabrielson K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Electronic address: cpeter52@jhmi.edu.
(2)Department of Molecular and Comparative Pathobiology, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

An 11-year-old male common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) presented with chronic, 
progressive weight loss and diarrhoea. Response to treatment with nutritional
supplementation, antibiotics and immunosuppressants was modest and transient, and
the animal was humanely euthanized. At necropsy, the proximal 8 cm of small
intestine was diffusely pale with transmural thickening. The lungs contained
coalescing tan, firm nodules measuring up to 4 mm in diameter. Histological
examination revealed infiltrative mucinous adenocarcinoma of the duodenum with
extensive metastases to the lungs, liver and left parapatellar adipose tissue.
The mucinous matrix secreted by the primary and metastatic lesions was strongly
periodic acid-Schiff positive. Warthin Starry staining for spirochaetes was
negative. Pancytokeratin expression was attenuated in the primary tumour as well 
as in the metastases, which correlated to a poorly differentiated phenotype. To
the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of a proximal duodenal
adenocarcinoma with extensive metastatic disease in a common marmoset.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2021.09.002 
PMCID: PMC8669625 [Available on 2022-11-01]
PMID: 34886977  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

