

3305. J Comp Neurol. 2000 Jul 10;422(4):621-51.

Visual areas in lateral and ventral extrastriate cortices of the marmoset monkey.

Rosa MG(1), Tweedale R.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, The University of Queensland, Queensland 4072, Australia.
Marcello.Rosa@rmed.rmonash.edu.au

The representation of the visual field in visual areas of the dorsolateral,
lateral, and ventral cortices was studied by means of extracellular recordings
and fluorescent tracer injections in anaesthetised marmoset monkeys. Two areas,
forming mirror-symmetrical representations of the contralateral visual field,
were found rostral to the second visual area (V2). These were termed the
ventrolateral posterior (VLP) and the ventrolateral anterior (VLA) areas. In both
areas, the representation of the lower quadrant is located dorsally, between the 
foveal representation of V2 and the middle temporal crescent (MTc), whereas the
representation of the upper quadrant is located ventrally, in the supratentorial 
cortex. A representation of the vertical meridian forms the common border of
areas VLP and VLA, whereas the horizontal meridian is represented both at the
caudal border of area VLP (with V2) and at the rostral border of area VLA (with
multiple extrastriate areas). The foveal representations of areas VLP and VLA are
continuous with that of V2, being located at the lateral edge of the hemisphere. 
The topographic and laminar patterns of projections from dorsolateral and ventral
cortices to the primary (V1) and dorsomedial (DM) visual areas both support the
present definition of the borders of areas VLP and VLA. These results argue
against a separation between dorsolateral and ventral extrastriate areas and
provide clues for the likely homologies between extrastriate areas of different
species.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1096-9861(20000710)422:4<621::aid-cne10>3.0.co;2-e 
PMID: 10861530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

