

3306. Physiol Behav. 2000 Apr 1-15;69(1-2):121-33.

Taste quality and intensity: lessons from the Morrison technique.

Ganchrow D(1), Erickson RP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv
University, Israel. anatom12@post.tau.ac.il

The nontoxic and nonshock Morrison operant technique was used to evaluate taste
quality in rat and marmoset: response to a tastant test solution in pursuit of a 
pellet reward was dependent on making a choice between two bars that had been
linked in discrimination training to qualitatively different stimulus pairs (NaCl
versus either HCl, QHCl, or NH(4)Cl). The percentage distribution of bar-press
responses to test stimuli showed: (1) stability of quality across 0.069-0.3 M
NaCl, 0.003-0.1 M HCl, and 0.0001-0.003 M QHCl; (2) for LiCl, a quality change
consistent with human reports of a "sour" to "salty" shift; (3) a suggestion that
the "salty-like" quality of NH(4)Cl and NaCl are not perceptually equivalent; (4)
NaNO(3) shares NaCl-like, QHCl-like, and NH(4)Cl-like components; (5) CaCl(2),
KCl, and MgCl(2) share QHCl-like and NH(4)Cl-like components; and (6) responses
to HCl and QHCl were not hedonically driven in the rat. Comparison of rank order 
correlations of single-unit firing rates to the distribution of bar-press
responses for the same test stimulus concentration revealed that (7) no single
level of the gustatory pathway exclusively accounts for the operant response
distribution pattern to either simple or complex tastants, and (8)
discriminations between tastants, one of which may be qualitatively complex, are 
not necessarily mediated only at levels proximal to the solitary nucleus. Thus,
the Morrison discrimination technique effectively yields statements about
gustatory quality without use of negative reinforcers and largely uninfluenced by
tastant hedonics.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(00)00196-7 
PMID: 10854924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

