

3308. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Jun;85(6):2339-44.

Inhibition of early luteal angiogenesis by gonadotropin-releasing hormone
antagonist treatment in the primate.

Dickson SE(1), Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Human Reproductive Sciences Unit, Centre for
Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. s.dickson@ed-rbu.mrc.ac.uk

Angiogenesis during luteal development is essential for normal lutein cell
function, but the control of this process and the relationships between the
steroidogenic and endothelial cells have still to be elucidated. The aim of this 
study was to: 1) quantify endothelial cell proliferation throughout the luteal
phase of the marmoset ovulatory cycle; 2) determine the effect of gonadotropin
withdrawal using GnRH antagonist treatment on the early luteal phase angiogenesis
peak; and 3) describe the resultant morphological changes in the corpus luteum
(CL). Ovaries were collected during the early, mid-, and late luteal phase, and
changes in angiogenic activity were determined by quantification of
bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. Animals were treated with a GnRH antagonist, on 
luteal days 1 and 2, and ovaries were collected on day 3. A proliferation index
was obtained by counting the number of bromodeoxyuridine immunopositive cells in 
luteal sections. Cell proliferation was maximal in the early luteal phase and
fell significantly in the mid- and late CL. GnRH antagonist treatment reduced the
early luteal phase proliferation peak by 90%, suppressed plasma progesterone, and
severely disrupted lutein cell morphology. These results demonstrate that the
intense angiogenesis in the early primate CL is dependent on gonadotropin
stimulation of lutein cells.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.85.6.6621 
PMID: 10852474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

