

331. Transl Stroke Res. 2021 Feb;12(1):98-111. doi: 10.1007/s12975-020-00804-1. Epub
2020 Apr 6.

A Reproducible New Model of Focal Ischemic Injury in the Marmoset Monkey: MRI and
Behavioural Follow-Up.

Le Friec A(#)(1), Desmoulin F(#)(1), Demain B(1), Davoust C(1), Robert L(1),
Duval T(1), Rémy F(2), Cirillo C(1), Loubinoux I(3).

Author information: 
(1)ToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center, Inserm, Université de Toulouse, UPS, UMR 
1214 -Inserm/UPSToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center CHU Purpan Pavillon Baudot
Place du Docteur Baylac, 31024 Cedex 3, Toulouse, France.
(2)CerCo, Centre de Recherche Cerveau & Cognition, CNRS, Université de Toulouse, 
UPS, Toulouse, France.
(3)ToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center, Inserm, Université de Toulouse, UPS, UMR 
1214 -Inserm/UPSToNIC, Toulouse NeuroImaging Center CHU Purpan Pavillon Baudot
Place du Docteur Baylac, 31024 Cedex 3, Toulouse, France.
isabelle.loubinoux@inserm.fr.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Transl Stroke Res. 2020 May 6;:.

Ischemic stroke mostly affects the primary motor cortex and descending motor
fibres, with consequent motor impairment. Pre-clinical models of stroke with
reproducible and long-lasting sensorimotor deficits in higher-order animals are
lacking. We describe a new method to induce focal brain damage targeting the
motor cortex to study damage to the descending motor tracts in the non-human
primate. Stereotaxic injection of malonate into the primary motor cortex produced
a focal lesion in middle-aged marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Assessment of
sensorimotor function using a neurological scale and testing of forelimb
dexterity and strength lasted a minimum of 12 weeks. Lesion evolution was
followed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 24 h, 1 week, 4 and 12 weeks
post-injury and before sacrifice for immunohistochemistry. Our model produced
consistent lesions of the motor cortex, subcortical white matter and caudate
nucleus. All animals displayed partial spontaneous recovery with long lasting
motor deficits of force (54% loss) and dexterity (≈ 70% loss). Clearly visible T2
hypointensity in the white matter was observed with MRI and corresponded to areas
of chronic gliosis in the internal capsule and lenticular fasciculus. We describe
a straightforward procedure to reproducibly injure the motor cortex in the
marmoset monkey, causing long-lasting motor deficits. The MRI signature reflects 
Wallerian degeneration and remote injury of corticospinal and corticopontine
tracts, as well as subcortical motor loops. Our model may be suitable for the
testing of therapies for post-stroke recovery, particularly in the chronic phase.

DOI: 10.1007/s12975-020-00804-1 
PMID: 32249405  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

