

3312. Biol Reprod. 2000 Jun;62(6):1685-93.

Effect of neonatal gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist administration on
sertoli cell number and testicular development in the marmoset: comparison with
the rat.

Sharpe RM(1), Walker M, Millar MR, Atanassova N, Morris K, McKinnell C, Saunders 
PT, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh EH3 9ET, Scotland, United Kingdom.

The primary purpose of this study was to establish whether Sertoli cells
proliferate in the neonatal period in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
and whether administration of a long-acting GnRH antagonist (GnRHa) during this
phase induced any transient or permanent effects on Sertoli cell number or on any
other aspect of testicular development. Male marmoset co-twins (n = 9) were
treated during Weeks 1-14 with either vehicle or GnRHa. Four sets of co-twins
were examined at Weeks 18-22 (start of infancy) and 5 sets in adulthood (92+ wk),
and Sertoli cell number was determined using either the nucleator or optical
disector methods; other testicular morphometric analyses (e.g., germ cell volume,
Leydig cell volume) used standard point-counting. Data for the marmoset were
compared with that obtained in similarly treated rats. Sertoli cell number in
marmosets treated neonatally with GnRHa was reduced by 35% compared with that of 
controls at Weeks 18-22 but was comparable to control values in adulthood.
However, seminiferous epithelium volume was reduced significantly in adult
marmosets treated neonatally with GnRHa, and there was a tendency for reduced
germ cell volume per Sertoli cell. In the same animals, there was significant
expansion of the interstitium and an increase in Leydig cell volume per testis
when compared with co-twin controls; a similar increase in Leydig cell volume was
evident in adult rats treated neonatally with GnRHa. Comparison of Sertoli cell
numbers in 6 infantile (18-24 wk) and 10 adult marmosets showed that adult
numbers of Sertoli cells were present by the start of infancy but, unlike rats,
marmosets were still able to replicate Sertoli cells beyond this period. However,
marmoset Sertoli cells supported only approximately 20% of the germ cell volume
supported by rat Sertoli cells, indicative of poor efficiency of spermatogenesis,
as shown previously in the human. This finding, together with the demonstration
of a temporal pattern of Sertoli cell replication similar to that in the human,
supports the use of marmosets as a model for human male testicular development
and function.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod62.6.1685 
PMID: 10819772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

