

3313. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2000 Jul;25(5):463-77.

Reduced adrenocortical responsiveness to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) in
socially subordinate female marmoset monkeys.

Saltzman W(1), Prudom SL, Schultz-Darken NJ, Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin Regional Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI 53715-1299, USA. saltzman@primate.wisc.edu

Socially subordinate female common marmoset monkeys undergo pronounced, chronic
reductions in basal plasma cortisol levels, which appear to result both from
socially induced suppression of reproductive hormones and from direct effects of 
social subordination. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that this cortisol 
suppression is mediated by reduced adrenocortical responsiveness to
adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Dominant, subordinate, and ovariectomized
females were given dexamethasone (5 mg/kg, IM), followed the next morning by
human ACTH(1-39) (10 microg/kg, IV) or sterile saline (0.5 ml/kg, IV); blood
samples were collected at -20 through 150 min from ACTH or saline treatment and
assayed for cortisol. ACTH, but not saline, caused a marked elevation of plasma
cortisol levels. Prior to ACTH treatment, dominant females tended to have higher 
dexamethasone-suppressed cortisol levels than subordinate and ovariectomized
females. After ACTH treatment, dominant females had significantly higher cortisol
concentrations, as well as higher peak and net integrated cortisol responses to
ACTH, than did subordinate and ovariectomized animals; the latter two groups
showed comparable cortisol responses to ACTH. These results suggest that dampened
adrenocortical responsiveness to ACTH contributes to chronic reductions in
cortisol levels in subordinate female marmosets and may be mediated by
suppression of reproductive hormones.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4530(00)00003-2 
PMID: 10818281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

