

3318. J Biochem. 2000 May;127(5):761-70.

New world monkey pepsinogens A and C, and prochymosins. Purification,
characterization of enzymatic properties, cDNA cloning, and molecular evolution.

Kageyama T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Evolution Modeling Research, Primate Research Institute,
Kyoto University, Inuyama 484-8506, Japan. kageyama@pri.kyoto-u.ac.jp

Pepsinogens A and C, and prochymosin were purified from four species of adult New
World monkeys, namely, common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), cotton-top tamarin
(Saguinus oedipus), squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus), and capuchin monkey
(Cebus apella). The occurrence of prochymosin was quite unique since this zymogen
is known to be neonate-specific and, in primates, it has been thought that the
prochymosin gene is not functional. No multiple form has been detected for any
type of pepsinogen except that two pepsinogen-A isozymogens were identified in
capuchin monkey. Pepsins A and C, and chymosin hydrolyzed hemoglobin optimally at
pH 2-2.5 with maximal activities of about 20, 30, and 15 units/mg protein.
Pepsins A were inhibited in the presence of an equimolar amount of pepstatin, and
chymosins and pepsins C needed 5- and 100-fold molar excesses of pepstatin for
complete inhibition, respectively. Hydrolysis of insulin B chain occurred first
at the Leu15-Tyr16 bond in the case of pepsins A and chymosins, and at either the
Leu15-Tyr16 or Tyr16-Leu17 bond in the case of pepsins C. The presence of
different types of pepsins might be advantageous to New World monkeys for the
efficient digestion of a variety of foods. Molecular cloning of cDNAs for three
types of pepsinogens from common marmoset was achieved. A phylogenetic tree of
pepsinogens based on the nucleotide sequence showed that common marmoset diverged
from the ancestral primate about 40 million years ago.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a022668 
PMID: 10788784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

