

3319. J Med Chem. 2000 Apr 20;43(8):1467-75.

Improving the oral bioavailability of the iron chelator HBED by breaking the
symmetry of the intramolecular H-bond network.

Faller B(1), Spanka C, Sergejew T, Tschinke V.

Author information: 
(1)Research Department, Novartis Pharma AG, WKL-122.P.33, CH-4002 Basel,
Switzerland. bernard.faller@pharma.novartis.com

Physicochemical analysis and Monte Carlo simulations were used to identify
structural features which prevent oral absorption of HBED, a potent iron
chelator. In water the dominant conformations of HBED involve the hydrophobic
collapse of the two aromatic rings. These conformations are favored in polar
media because they expose the polar phenolic hydroxy groups to the solvent and
partially shield the nonpolar aromatic rings. In a less polar solvent such as
chloroform, a symmetrical H-bond network between the carboxylates and the amines 
dominates the conformational space. This leads to the exposure of the phenolic
hydroxy groups to the solvent, which is unfavorable for solvation. The low
solubility of HBED in nonpolar solvents was confirmed experimentally by
determination of the partition coefficients in octanol, chloroform, and
cyclohexane and may explain the poor membrane permeability of this compound. The 
high conformational stability which disfavors partitioning into phospholipids is 
mainly due to the symmetrical H-bond network. Potentiometric titrations of a
monoester of HBED in MeOH/water indicate that the protonation sequence was
changed compared to that of the parent compound, suggesting that the symmetrical 
H-bond network was disrupted. Conformational analysis in chloroform confirmed
that, in contrast to HBED, no symmetric interaction between the carboxylate and
the nitrogen amines is possible in the half-ester and a variety of conformations 
which allow partial shielding of the polar phenolic OH groups are energetically
possible. This theoretical model predicting a better solubility of the
half-esters in nonpolar solvents was supported by the large increase in the
partition coefficients in octanol, chloroform, and cyclohexane measured
experimentally. The high absorbability predicted by physicochemical and computer 
simulation methods was corroborated by in vivo experiments in marmoset monkeys
where the monoethyl ester derivative of HBED was well-absorbed orally while the
parent compound was nearly ineffective in the same model.

DOI: 10.1021/jm990261n 
PMID: 10780902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

