

3321. Brain Res Bull. 2000 May 1;52(1):21-9.

Clomethiazole protects against hemineglect in a primate model of stroke.

Marshall JW(1), Cross AJ, Jackson DM, Green AR, Baker HF, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Comparative Cognition Team, Department of Experimental Psychology,
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. jwbm2@cus.cam.ac.uk

Permanent occlusion of the M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery (pMCAO) in
the marmoset, a New World species of monkey, produces unilateral functional
deficits, including motor neglect with the contralesional arm and contralesional 
spatial hemineglect. In this study we examined whether clomethiazole, a drug
which modulates the gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) receptor, reduced the severity of 
the hemineglect and other deficits in this primate model of stroke. Nine monkeys 
received pMCAO; 1 h later four of the nine were administered clomethiazole by
intraperitoneal injection and subcutaneous implantation of osmotic mini-pumps,
which released clomethiazole for 48 h. The monkeys had been trained and tested on
a number of behavioral tasks prior to surgery and were re-tested 3 and 10 weeks
later. Three weeks after pMCAO, monkeys treated with clomethiazole had a
significantly reduced degree of spatial neglect compared to untreated controls.
Clomethiazole was not effective against the severe contralesional motor
impairment in the current study, although it ameliorated a somewhat less severe
motor deficit in a previous study in which the more distal, M2 segment of the
middle cerebral artery had been occluded. Postmortem analysis of the brains
showed that clomethiazole treatment had significantly reduced the area of damage 
in part of the parietal cortex. These data suggest that clomethiazole may reduce 
the neglect that can be a debilitating consequence of right-sided stroke in man.

DOI: 10.1016/s0361-9230(99)00275-0 
PMID: 10779698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

