

3322. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2000 Mar;52(1):3-10.

Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression in liver and splenic T
lymphocyte rise are associated with liver histological damage during experimental
hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection in Callithrix jacchus.

Pinto MA(1), Marchevsky RS, Pelajo-Machado M, Santiago MA, Pissurno JW, Fran√ßa
MS, Baptista ML, Gouvea AS, Santana AA, Bertho AL, Schatzmayr HG, Gaspar AM,
Kubelka CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Virology, IOC/FIOCRUZ, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
marcelo@gene.dbbm.fiocruz.br

Callithrix jacchus is considered a reliable animal model for hepatitis A virus
(HAV) infection. All three HAV orally inoculated marmosets developed hepatitis - 
the infection was monitored by continuous virus shedding, high levels of serum
enzyme alanine aminotransferase, specific antibody and seroconversion 3-6 weeks
after HAV inoculation. HAV antigen was detected in liver by immunofluorescence 4 
days post inoculation (PI) and onwards. To gain insight into the biological role 
of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) during immune-related acute liver
injury the enzyme was searched in frozen biopsies: immunofluorescent labeling was
found in the cytoplasm of liver cells mainly Kupffer's cells and spleen
macrophages (CD68+) starting 11 days PI with maximum intensity on the fifth to
sixth week PI. Necroinflammatory liver lesions characteristic of viral hepatitis 
were also observed at 10 days PI with maximum severity at 4 to 6 weeks PI.
Furthermore, T lymphocytes (CD2+) were raised at this time point. No difference
was evident in the frequency of B lymphocytes (CD20+). Therefore, iNOS expression
preceded necroinflammatory liver lesion and maximal immunofluorescence reaction
was coincident with tissue injury, supporting the hypothesis that NO contributes 
to hepatic cytotoxic mechanism but also to virus clearance. The concomitant rise 
in T-lymphocyte population may suggest a role for these cells in this and/or
other independent HAV-induced pathological changes.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-2993(00)80006-8 
PMID: 10779146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

