

3325. Biol Reprod. 2000 May;62(5):1344-51.

Cloning and expression analysis of testis-specific cyclic 3', 5'-adenosine
monophosphate-responsive element modulator activators in the nonhuman primate
(Macaca fascicularis): comparison with other primate and rodent species.

Behr R(1), Hunt N, Ivell R, Wessels J, Weinbauer GF.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University, D-48129 MÃ¼nster,
Germany.

The cAMP-responsive element modulator (CREM) gene encodes a transcription factor 
that is essential for spermatogenesis. In mouse testis, several CREM repressors
and activators have been identified. In contrast to the situation for the mouse, 
however, little is known about CREM isoforms in the primate testis. We analyzed
CREM isoforms and mRNA expression in a clinically relevant primate model, the
cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis). A cDNA library was generated from monkey
testis; and two activator isoforms (tau2 with and without exon gamma) were
identified, which displayed high sequence identity to mouse and human isoforms.
The insertion of exon gamma was observed for the first time in the primate
testis. CREM activator expression was confined to the testis, where it was seen
in late pachytene spermatocytes and round spermatids in specific spermatogenic
stages, as revealed by in situ hybridization. Comparison of the mRNA and the
recently described protein expression indicated a lack of translational delay of 
CREM expression. Comparative analysis of testicular CREM expression by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction yielded several transcripts in the rat,
mouse, hamster, and marmoset; two transcripts in cynomolgus and rhesus monkeys;
and one transcript in men. These findings suggest an evolutionary trend from
multiple activator isoforms to a single activator transcript in men.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod62.5.1344 
PMID: 10775186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

