

3338. Br J Pharmacol. 2000 Apr;129(7):1355-64.

The effects of central aromatic amino acid DOPA decarboxylase inhibition on the
motor actions of L-DOPA and dopamine agonists in MPTP-treated primates.

Treseder SA(1), Jackson M, Jenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Research Centre, Hodgkin Building, Division of
Pharmacology & Therapeutics, Guy's, King's and St Thomas' School of Biomedical
Sciences, King's College, London, SE1 1UL, UK.

1. Endogenous L-DOPA may act as a neuromodulator contributing to the production
of motor activity. We now investigate the effects of the centrally acting
aromatic amino acid dopa decarboxylase (AADC) inhibitor NSD-1015 (3-hydroxybenzyl
hydrazine) on the motor actions of L-DOPA and dopamine agonist drugs in MPTP
treated common marmosets. 2. Pretreatment with NSD-1015 (10 - 50 mg kg(-1); i.p.)
worsened baseline motor deficits in MPTP-treated common marmosets. Similarly, it 
abolished L-DOPA (5 - 18 mg kg(-1) s.c.) induced locomotor activity and reversal 
of disability. NSD-1015 pretreatment inhibited dopamine formation and elevated
L-DOPA levels in plasma. 3. The increase in locomotor activity and improvement in
disability produced by the administration of the D-1 agonist A-86929 (0.03 - 0.
04 mg kg(-1) s.c.) or the D-2 agonist quinpirole (0.05 - 0.3 mg kg(-1) i.p.) was 
abolished by NSD-1015 (25 mg kg(-1) i.p.) pretreatment. While the effects of a
low dose combination of A-86929 (0.04 mg kg(-1) s.c.) and quinpirole (0.05 mg
kg(-1) i.p.) were inhibited by NSD-1015 (25 mg kg(-1) i.p.), there was little
effect on the action of a high dose combination of these drugs (0.08 mg kg(-1)
A-86929 and 0.1 mg kg(-1) quinpirole). 4. Following central AADC inhibition with 
NSD-1015 (25 mg kg(-1) i.p.), locomotor behaviour induced by administration of
high dose combinations of A-86929 (0.08 mg kg(-1) s.c.) and quinpirole (0.1 mg
kg(-1) i.p.) was unaffected by L-DOPA (5 mg kg(-1) s.c.) pretreatment. 5. These
results do not support a role for endogenous L-DOPA in spontaneous or drug
induced locomotor activity. Rather, they strengthen the argument for the
importance of endogenous dopaminergic tone in the motor actions of dopamine
agonists.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0703189 
PMCID: PMC1571971
PMID: 10742291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

