

3339. Exp Neurol. 2000 Apr;162(2):321-7.

Combined use of the adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW-6002 with L-DOPA or with
selective D1 or D2 dopamine agonists increases antiparkinsonian activity but not 
dyskinesia in MPTP-treated monkeys.

Kanda T(1), Jackson MJ, Smith LA, Pearce RK, Nakamura J, Kase H, Kuwana Y, Jenner
P.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd., 1188
Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho, Sunto-gun, Shizuoka, 411-8731, Japan.

The novel selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist KW-6002 improves motor
disability in MPTP-treated parkinsonian marmosets without provoking dyskinesia.
In this study we have investigated whether KW-6002 in combination with l-DOPA or 
selective D1 or D2 dopamine receptor agonists enhances antiparkinsonian activity 
in MPTP-treated common marmosets. Combination of KW-6002 with the selective
dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole or the D1 receptor agonist SKF80723
produced an additive improvement in motor disability. Coadministration of KW-6002
with a low dose of L-DOPA also produced an additive improvement in motor
disability, and increased locomotor activity. The ability of KW-6002 to enhance
antiparkinsonian activity was more marked with L-DOPA and quinpirole than with
the D1 agonist. However, despite producing an enhanced antiparkinsonian response 
KW-6002 did not exacerbate L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in MPTP-treated common
marmosets previously primed to exhibit dyskinesia by prior exposure to L-DOPA.
Selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists, such as KW-6002, may be one means
of reducing the dosage of L-DOPA used in treating Parkinson's disease and are
potentially a novel approach to treating the illness both as monotherapy and in
combination with dopaminergic drugs.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.2000.7350 
PMID: 10739638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

