

334. Genes (Basel). 2020 Apr 1;11(4). pii: E383. doi: 10.3390/genes11040383.

Evolution of the Human Chromosome 13 Synteny: Evolutionary Rearrangements,
Plasticity, Human Disease Genes and Cancer Breakpoints.

Scardino R(1), Milioto V(1), Proskuryakova AA(2), Serdyukova NA(2), Perelman
PL(2), Dumas F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences and
Technologies (STEBICEF), University of Palermo, 90100 Palermo, Italy.
(2)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, SB RAS, 630090 Novosibirsk,
Russia.

The history of each human chromosome can be studied through comparative
cytogenetic approaches in mammals which permit the identification of human
chromosomal homologies and rearrangements between species. Comparative banding,
chromosome painting, Bacterial Artificial Chromosome (BAC) mapping and genome
data permit researchers to formulate hypotheses about ancestral chromosome forms.
Human chromosome 13 has been previously shown to be conserved as a single
syntenic element in the Ancestral Primate Karyotype; in this context, in order to
study and verify the conservation of primate chromosomes homologous to human
chromosome 13, we mapped a selected set of BAC probes in three platyrrhine
species, characterised by a high level of rearrangements, using fluorescence in
situ hybridisation (FISH). Our mapping data on Saguinus oedipus, Callithrix
argentata and Alouatta belzebul provide insight into synteny of human chromosome 
13 evolution in a comparative perspective among primate species, showing
rearrangements across taxa. Furthermore, in a wider perspective, we have revised 
previous cytogenomic literature data on chromosome 13 evolution in eutherian
mammals, showing a complex origin of the eutherian mammal ancestral karyotype
which has still not been completely clarified. Moreover, we analysed biomedical
aspects (the OMIM and Mitelman databases) regarding human chromosome 13, showing 
that this autosome is characterised by a certain level of plasticity that has
been implicated in many human cancers and diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/genes11040383 
PMCID: PMC7230465
PMID: 32244767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

