

3343. Neuropharmacology. 2000 Feb 14;39(4):547-52.

The 5-HT1A antagonist, WAY 100 635, alleviates cognitive impairments induced by
dizocilpine (MK-801) in monkeys.

Harder JA(1), Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)The School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford, W. Yorks, UK.
j.a.harder@bradford.ac.uk

Central glutamate neurotransmission is modulated by an upregulatory cholinergic
influence and an inhibitory serotonergic influence. In Alzheimer's disease,
cognitive decline is associated with loss of both glutamatergic and cholinergic
neurones (Francis et al., 1992, Progress in Neurobiology 39, 517-545). While
therapeutic strategies for alleviating this cognitive decline have concentrated
on restoring cholinergic tone, we suggest that 5-HT1A antagonists also have the
potential to alleviate the cognitive symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. Previous
studies have shown that dizocilpine (MK-801), a glutamatergic antagonist acting
at the NMDA receptor, produces learning impairments in the common marmoset, a
non-human primate. Specifically, it impairs the acquisition of shape
discrimination and visuospatial conditional tasks, at doses that do not affect
locomotor behaviour or coordination (Harder et al., 1998, Society for
Neuroscience Abstracts 23(1), 219). In the present study we investigated the
effects of WAY 100 635, a 5-HT1A antagonist, on the cognitive deficits induced by
dizocilpine. The number of trials required to learn each type of task under
combined treatment with dizocilpine and WAY 100 635 was significantly lower than 
under dizocilpine treatment alone, and did not differ significantly from the
number of trials required under saline, demonstrating that the cognitive effects 
of glutamatergic blockade can be overcome by treatment with a 5-HT1A antagonist.

DOI: 10.1016/s0028-3908(99)00179-3 
PMID: 10728875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

