

3348. Drug Metabol Drug Interact. 1999;15(2-3):97-105.

In vitro metabolism of (S)-(-)-[2'-14C]nicotine, using various tissue
preparations of marmoset.

Tsai MC(1), Gorrod JW.

Author information: 
(1)Toxicology Unit, John Tabor Laboratories, University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, 
Colchester, UK.

The nicotine metabolite profile produced by marmoset liver, lung and kidney
preparations was investigated after 30 minutes incubation of
(S)-(-)-[2'-14C]nicotine. Cation-exchange high performance liquid
radiochromatography was employed to separate and quantify nicotine and its
metabolites. Cotinine-N-oxide (CNO, 0.7%), 3'-hydroxy-cotinine (3'-OH-C, 0.2%),
norcotinine (NORC, 0.9%) and nornicotine (NORN, 0.4%) were formed in the
incubates of marmoset lung homogenates; when marmoset kidney homogenates were
used, CNO, 0.4%; 3'-OH-C, 0.2%; NORC, 0.7%; NORN, 0.7%; and cotinine (COT, 0.4%) 
were detected in the incubates. These nicotine metabolites constituted only
approximately 2.2% and 2.4% of the original nicotine substrate used by lung and
kidney homogenates respectively. When marmoset hepatic homogenates and microsomes
were used, both COT and NORN were detected as the major nicotine metabolites. In 
addition, traces of CNO and 3'-OH-C were also detected in both incubates. The
amounts of COT (6.4%) and NORN (1.8%) in the hepatic homogenates were
approximately twice that of those formed by hepatic microsomes (3.8% and 0.9%,
respectively). Nicotine-1'-N-oxide (NNO, 1.1%) was only detected in the latter
preparation. Under the experimental conditions, these nicotine metabolites
constituted only 8.2% and 5.8% of the substrate nicotine used in the respective
incubates. The present results showed that both primary C-oxidation pathways,
i.e. cotinine formation and N-demethylation of nicotine, occurred in the lung,
kidney and liver of marmoset in vitro. However, N-oxidation of nicotine was only 
observed when a marmoset hepatic microsomal preparation was used.

DOI: 10.1515/dmdi.1999.15.2-3.97 
PMID: 10707116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

