

3354. Eur J Pharmacol. 2000 Feb 18;389(2-3):193-9.

Motor effects of (-)-OSU6162 in primates with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine
lesions.

Ekesbo A(1), Andr√©n PE, Gunne LM, Sonesson C, Tedroff J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Neurology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

The effects of the novel compound, (-)-OSU6162
((S)-(-)-3-methylsulfonylphenyl-1-propylpiperidine), on rotational behavior
induced by dopamine receptor agonists was investigated in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. (-)-OSU6162 per
se displayed no effect on the animals' behavior. On the other hand, pretreatment 
with (-)-OSU6162 attenuated rotational behavior induced by apomorphine
(apomorphini hydrochloridum), L-DOPA (3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine), and the
dopamine D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole (trans-(-)-4aR-4,4a,
5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1H-pyrazolol[3,4-g]quinoline hydrochloride),
without inducing motor impairment such as akinesia or dystonia. In addition,
treatment with (-)-OSU6162 for 5 consecutive days almost completely abolished the
rotational behavior provoked by apomorphine and produced a transient
subsensitization of such apomorphine-induced effects after it was discontinued.
Moreover, pretreatment with (-)-OSU6162 in two monkeys augmented the rotational
behavior elicited by the dopamine D1 receptor agonists, SKF-81297
(R(+)-6-chloro-7,8,dihydroxy-1-phenyl-2,3,4, 5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine
hydrobromide) and A-77636 ((-)-(1R,
3S)-3-adamantyl-1-(aminomethyl)-3,4-dihydro-5, 6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benzopyran
hydrochloride). The findings indicate that (-)-OSU6162 can exert indirect
state-dependent effects that differentially affect dopamine D1 and dopamine D2
receptor agonist-induced behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(99)00879-1 
PMID: 10688984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

