

3357. Eur J Pharmacol. 2000 Feb 11;389(1):41-9.

Species selectivity of a small molecule antagonist for the CCR1 chemokine
receptor.

Liang M(1), Rosser M, Ng HP, May K, Bauman JG, Islam I, Ghannam A, Kretschmer PJ,
Pu H, Dunning L, Snider RM, Morrissey MM, Hesselgesser J, Perez HD, Horuk R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceuticals Discovery, Berlex Biosciences, Richmond, CA,
USA. meina_liang@berlex.com

The species specificity of a small molecule antagonist for the human CCR1
chemokine receptor, 2-2-diphenyl-5-(4-chlorophenyl)piperidin-1-yl)valeronitrile
(CCR1 antagonist 1), has been examined using cloned CCR1 receptors from various
species. The compound was able to bind to rabbit, marmoset, and human CCR1, and
was able to block the functional activation of these receptors. However, it
failed to significantly displace radiolabeled macrophage inflammatory
protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) binding to mouse CCR1 at concentrations up to 10
microM. These data suggested that the antagonist binding site is well-conserved
in rabbit, marmoset and human CCR1, but not in mouse CCR1. The functional
selectivity and mechanism of action for CCR1 antagonist 1 were further
characterized. CCR1 antagonist 1 blocked the increase in intracellular Ca(2+)
stimulated by CCR1 agonists, but had no effect on N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (FMLP),
monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and stromal-derived factor 1alpha
(SDF1alpha)-induced Ca(2+) mobilization, demonstrating functional selectivity for
CCR1. Since CCR1 antagonist 1 is a functional antagonist of marmoset and rabbit
CCR1 receptors, it should be possible to test its efficacy in animal models of
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(99)00863-8 
PMID: 10686294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

