

336. J Hum Evol. 2020 May;142:102767. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2020.102767. Epub 2020 Mar
30.

Not all fine-branch locomotion is equal: Grasping morphology determines locomotor
performance on narrow supports.

Young JW(1), Chadwell BA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH 44272, USA; Musculoskeletal Biology Research Focus Area, 
NEOMED, Rootstown, OH 44272, USA; School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent State
University, Kent, OH 44240, USA. Electronic address: jwyoung@neomed.edu.
(2)Department of Anatomy, Idaho College of Osteopathic Medicine, Meridian, ID
83642, USA.

Fine-branch models have long played a central role in primate evolutionary
research. Nevertheless, recent studies of positional behavior in nonprimate
arboreal mammals have challenged the idea that synapomorphic primate features,
such as grasping extremities, uniquely facilitated access to the fine-branch
zone. We test the alternative hypothesis that grasping extremities specifically
improve locomotor performance in a fine-branch environment by examining how
support diameter influences locomotor mechanics in one sciurid rodent (Sciurus
carolinensis) and two platyrrhine primates (Callithrix jacchus and Saimiri
boliviensis). These species were chosen to broadly model different stages in the 
evolution of primate grasping morphology. The results showed that transitioning
from broad to narrower supports required the greatest kinematic adjustment in
squirrels and the least adjustment in squirrel monkeys, with marmosets displaying
an intermediate level of adjustment. Moreover, on any given support, squirrels'
locomotor mechanics differed from marmosets' in a manner consistent with a
greater need for stability, despite superficial ecomorphological similarities
between sciurid rodents and callitrichine primates. Morphological analyses of
autopodial size and proportions suggest that variation in locomotor performance
more closely tracked variation in overall hand and foot size rather than digit
length per se. Indeed, a broad comparative analysis revealed that for their body 
mass, primates have longer hands than similarly sized arboreal rodents and
marsupials (although only the primate-rodent comparison was significant after
incorporating phylogenetic relatedness). Inclusion of fossil stem primates
(plesiadapiforms) and euprimates (adapiforms) in these analyses suggests that
this primate-wide grade shift in relative autopodial size must have occurred
early in the evolutionary history of the group. Overall, our findings show that
basal primate morphological adaptations may have specifically facilitated
improved locomotor performance in a fine-branch niche, rather than merely
permitting access to the environment. As such, future adaptive hypotheses of
primate origins should incorporate the import of primate-like morphology on
locomotor performance as well.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2020.102767 
PMID: 32240883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

