

3361. J Virol. 2000 Mar;74(6):2550-7.

The Epstein-Barr virus pol catalytic subunit physically interacts with the
BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex.

Fujii K(1), Yokoyama N, Kiyono T, Kuzushima K, Homma M, Nishiyama Y, Fujita M,
Tsurumi T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Virology, Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute, Chikusa-ku,
Nagoya 464-8681, Japan.

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-encoded replication proteins that account for the
basic reactions at the replication fork are thought to be the EBV Pol holoenzyme,
consisting of the BALF5 Pol catalytic and the BMRF1 Pol accessory subunits, the
putative helicase-primase complex, comprising the BBLF4, BSLF1, and BBLF2/3
proteins, and the BALF2 single-stranded DNA-binding protein. Immunoprecipitation 
analyses using anti-BSLF1 or anti-BBLF2/3 protein-specific antibody with
clarified lysates of B95-8 cells in a viral productive cycle suggested that the
EBV Pol holoenzyme physically interacts with the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex to
form a large complex. Although the complex was stable in 500 mM NaCl and 1%
NP-40, the BALF5 protein became dissociated in the presence of 0.1% sodium
dodecyl sulfate. Experiments using lysates from insect cells superinfected with
combinations of recombinant baculoviruses capable of expressing each of viral
replication proteins showed that not the BMRF1 Pol accessory subunit but rather
the BALF5 Pol catalytic subunit directly interacts with the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3
complex. Furthermore, double infection with pairs of recombinant viruses revealed
that each component of the BBLF4-BSLF1-BBLF2/3 complex makes contact with the
BALF5 Pol catalytic subunit. The interactions of the EBV DNA polymerase with the 
EBV putative helicase-primase complex warrant particular attention because they
are thought to coordinate leading- and lagging-strand DNA synthesis at the
replication fork.

DOI: 10.1128/jvi.74.6.2550-2557.2000 
PMCID: PMC111743
PMID: 10684269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

