

3365. J Histochem Cytochem. 2000 Jan;48(1):95-103.

Pararosaniline fixation for detection of co-stimulatory molecules, cytokines, and
specific antibody.

Schrijver IA(1), Melief MJ, van Meurs M, Companjen AR, Laman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus University and University Hospital,
Rotterdam-Dijkzigt, The Netherlands.

Integral immunohistochemical analysis of immune responses in frozen sections
requires that, in addition to constitutively expressed membrane CD markers, less 
stable determinants can be reliably visualized. Therefore, we compared the
commonly used acetone fixation method with pararosaniline fixation for six
determinant categories. These categories included selected constitutively
expressed markers, inducible co-stimulatory molecules, pro- and anti-inflammatory
cytokines (including the novel cytokine IL-18, also known as IGIF and IL-1gamma),
antigen-specific antibody in plasma cells, bacterial peptidoglycan, and lysosomal
acid phosphatase activity. Human spleen and mouse spleen activated by agonistic
anti-CD40 antibody or TNP-Ficoll immunization were analyzed in parallel with
brain tissue from multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and marmoset monkeys with
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for MS. Fixation
with pararosaniline resulted in better morphology of all tissues and inhibited
endogenous alkaline phosphatase activity in brain tissue. Most determinants could
be reliably detected. Staining sensitivity and intensity were markedly increased 
for selected determinant-tissue combinations, e.g., for IL-4 in human spleen and 
CD40 in human and mouse spleen. These data show that pararosaniline is a useful
alternative to acetone, resulting in superior morphology and specific staining
for selected determinant-tissue combinations. This provides additional
flexibility for in situ analysis of immune reactivity.

DOI: 10.1177/002215540004800110 
PMID: 10653590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

