

3366. J Reprod Fertil. 1999 Sep;117(1):107-14.

Marmoset monkey trophoblastic tissue growth and matrix metalloproteinase
secretion in culture.

Franek AD(1), Salamonsen LA, Lopata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria, Australia.

Marmoset monkey blastocysts maintained in culture produced trophoblastic vesicles
up to 4 mm in diameter that were subdivided into fragments and subcultured to
produce new vesicles. These tissues are composed of an outer layer of
trophoblast-like cells and an inner layer of endoderm-like cells, and resemble a 
blastocyst wall. When such vesicles were cultured in serum-free medium for 14
days, they increased in size but there was no significant difference in their
protein content at the end of culture. The proliferation index, measured by BrdU 
incorporation, varied considerably within and between vesicles. The purpose of
this investigation was to determine which matrix metalloproteinases are secreted 
by marmoset monkey trophoblastic tissue in vitro, and the effect of extracellular
laminin on this secretion. It was determined by zymography that the vesicles
secreted matrix metalloproteinase 2, but not matrix metalloproteinase 9, and that
matrix metalloproteinase 2 was secreted as the proenzyme (72 kDa). Matrix
metalloproteinases 1, 3 and 7 were not detectable in the culture medium. The
addition of laminin (5-20 micrograms ml-1), either as a substrate or in solution 
in the medium, did not have a consistent effect on matrix metalloproteinase 2
secretion during the culture period. The vesicles were found to express both
matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 in both types of cell when examined by
immunohistochemistry. The expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 in the
vesicles, but the absence of its secretion, indicates that specific factors,
possibly of endometrial origin, may be required for inducing secretion.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1170107 
PMID: 10645251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

