

3368. Int J Androl. 1999 Dec;22(6):374-84.

Expression of the integrin subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 in the testes of 
the common marmoset.

Husen B(1), Giebel J, Rune G.

Author information: 
(1)University of Greifswald, Germany.

Integrin subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 were localized in the testis of
pre-pubertal or adult non-human primates (Callithrix jacchus) by
immunofluorescence staining and in situ hybridization. In animals of all ages
subunits alpha 5 and beta 1 were localized in cells of the lamina propria of the 
seminiferous epithelium. In prepubertal animals, the integrin subunits alpha 5,
alpha 6, as well as beta 1, were distributed all over the plasma membrane of
Sertoli cells. In adult animals the integrin subunits were confined to those
plasma membrane regions of Sertoli cells which are assigned to the basal
compartment, including the basement membrane of the seminiferous tubules. Protein
expression of integrin subunits alpha 6 and beta 1 was most pronounced in tubular
stages in which elongated spermatids were not yet present in the adluminal
compartment of the epithelium, suggesting that these integrin subunits are
particularly essential at certain developmental stages of spermatogenesis.
Non-radioactive in situ hybridization revealed that the mRNA for integrin
subunits alpha 5, alpha 6 and beta 1 was expressed by Sertoli cells. In situ
hybridization, together with immunofluorescence data, shows that these integrin
subunits were exclusively synthesized in Sertoli cells. As to functional aspects,
it is concluded that during primate spermatogenesis. Sertoli cell integrins may
be involved in both cell matrix as well as cell-cell interactions, particularly
during early spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2605.1999.00195.x 
PMID: 10624606  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

