

3385. Biol Reprod. 1999 Dec;61(6):1468-79.

Luteal regression in the primate: different forms of cell death during naturaland
gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist or prostaglandin analogue-induced
luteolysis.

Fraser HM(1), Lunn SF, Harrison DJ, Kerr JB.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, EH3 9ET, United Kingdom.
h.fraser@ed-rbu.mrc.ac.uk

Morphological changes in the corpus luteum following natural and induced
luteolysis in the marmoset were investigated by light and electron microscopy.
Functional corpora lutea were studied in the mid and late luteal phase, naturally
regressed corpora lutea in the early and late follicular phase, and corpora lutea
induced to regress by administration of GnRH antagonist or prostaglandin
F(2alpha) analogue in the midluteal phase. Natural luteolysis was associated with
lutein cell atrophy, condensation of cytoplasmic inclusions and organelles, and
accumulation of lipid. GnRH antagonist treatment resulted in aggregations of
smooth membranes and myelin-like bodies in the cytoplasm of the lutein cells
together with complex aggregations of degenerative cells. After prostaglandin
treatment, the lutein cells contained numerous small and large vesicles; as the
degenerative changes advanced, these vesicles coalesced into alveolar-type
vacuoles, and nuclei involuted. These results show that in the marmoset, natural 
luteolysis and the two luteolytic treatments reveal different forms of luteal
degeneration and cell death, none of which fit the ultrastructural criteria for
apoptosis. More emphasis needs to be placed on understanding these predominant
nonapoptotic forms of cell death in order to elucidate the process of luteolysis 
in the primate.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod61.6.1468 
PMID: 10569991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

