

339. Front Behav Neurosci. 2020 Mar 10;14:34. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.00034.
eCollection 2020.

Avoidant Coping Style to High Imminence Threat Is Linked to Higher Anxiety-Like
Behavior.

Quah SKL(1)(2), Cockcroft GJ(1)(2), McIver L(1)(2), Santangelo AM(1)(2), Roberts 
AC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(2)Behavioral and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Human studies with self-reported measures have suggested a link between an
avoidant coping style and high anxiety. Here, using the common marmoset as a
model, we characterize the latent factors underlying behavioral responses of
these monkeys towards low and high imminence threat and investigate if a
predominantly avoidant behavioral response to high imminence threat is associated
with greater anxiety-like behavior in a context of low imminence threat.
Exploratory factor analysis (EFA) of the human intruder test of low imminence
threat revealed a single factor in which a combination of active vigilance and
avoidance responses underpinned anxiety-like behavior. In contrast, two
negatively-associated factors were revealed in the model snake test reflecting
active and avoidant coping to high imminence threat. Subsequent analysis showed
that animals with a predominantly avoidant coping style on the model snake test
displayed higher anxiety-like behavior on the human intruder test, findings
consistent with those described in humans. Together they illustrate the richness 
of the behavioral repertoire displayed by marmosets in low and high imminence
threatening contexts and the additional insight that factor analysis can provide 
by identifying the latent factors underlying these complex behavioral datasets.
They also highlight the translational value of this approach when studying the
neural circuits underlying complex anxiety-like states in this primate model.

Copyright Â© 2020 Quah, Cockcroft, McIver, Santangelo and Roberts.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2020.00034 
PMCID: PMC7078632
PMID: 32218725 

