

3396. Mov Disord. 1999 Sep;14(5):744-53.

The alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist idazoxan reduces dyskinesia and
enhances anti-parkinsonian actions of L-dopa in the MPTP-lesioned primate model
of Parkinson's disease.

Henry B(1), Fox SH, Peggs D, Crossman AR, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Organon Laboratories Limited, Department of Pharmacology, Lanarkshire,
Scotland, UK.

Dopamine replacement therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease is plagued by
the emergence of abnormal involuntary movements known as L-dopa-induced
dyskinesias. It has been demonstrated that yohimbine can reduce L-dopa-induced
dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned primate model of Parkinson's disease. Yohimbine
is, among other things, an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist. In this study,
we demonstrate that the selective and potent alpha2-adrenergic receptor
antagonist idazoxan reduces L-dopa-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-lesioned
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease. The alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonists
rauwolscine and yohimbine also reduce L-dopa-induced dyskinesia. Furthermore, we 
demonstrate that coadministration of idazoxan with L-dopa can provide an
anti-parkinsonian action more than twice the length of that seen with L-dopa
alone. However, idazoxan as a monotherapy displayed no anti-parkinsonian actions.
We propose that idazoxan in combination with L-dopa may provide a novel approach 
to the treatment of Parkinson's disease that will not only reduce the dyskinetic 
side effects, but extend the anti-parkinsonian actions of L-dopa. Idazoxan, as an
adjunct to dopamine replacement, may prove useful in the treatment of
parkinsonian patients at all stages of disease progression.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8257(199909)14:5<744::aid-mds1006>3.0.co;2-7 
PMID: 10495035  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

