

34. Vet Pathol. 2022 Mar;59(2):358-370. doi: 10.1177/03009858211052664. Epub 2021 Dec
6.

Vascular, cardiac, and renal lesions attributed to primary systemic hypertension 
in western pygmy marmosets (Cebuella pygmaea).

Cooley AJ(1), Savage A(1), Snowdon CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.

In a retrospective study of a western pygmy marmoset (Cebuella pygmaea) colony,
postmortem examination of 1/8 juvenile and 29/47 adult animals identified
vascular, cardiac, and renal lesions consistent with systemic hypertension. This 
included frequent renal arteriolar hypertrophy, hyaline and proliferative
arteriolosclerosis, fibrinoid necrosis of arterioles, glomerulosclerosis, and
nephrosclerosis. Affected animals ranged from 0.6 to 12 years of age (mean 6
years) and had an observed male predominance. Genealogical relatedness was
evident in several breeding pairs and spanned multiple generations. Concurrent
cardiac and renal disease was commonly identified, although frequently
subclinical, and both were important causes of morbidity and mortality in
affected animals. Cardiomegaly and hypertrophy were typical features and were
accompanied by left atrial thrombosis in 10 animals. Signs of heart failure
included chronic pulmonary edema in 20 cases and body cavity effusions in 17. In 
the kidneys, 19 cases had glomerular disease and hypertensive vasculopathy, and
26 cases had nephrosclerosis or glomerulosclerosis. Common extrarenal secondary
causes of hypertension were excluded by necropsy examination. The pathogenesis is
suggested to involve primary hypertension leading to renal and cardiac disease.
Elevated sympathetic activity might be an underlying factor in the frequent
development of primary systemic hypertension in the pygmy marmoset, as for the
owl monkey.

DOI: 10.1177/03009858211052664 
PMID: 34872391 

