

3401. J Toxicol Sci. 1999 Aug;24(3):237-44.

Effects of di-isononyl phthalate (DINP) on peroxisomal markers in the
marmoset-DINP is not a peroxisome proliferator.

Hall M(1), Matthews A, Webley L, Harling R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of In Vitro Metabolism, Huntingdon Life Sciences Limited, England.

In the present study the systemic toxic potential of di-isononyl phthalate (DINP)
was assessed in a 13-week study in marmosets. Particular attention was given to
its potential for hepatic peroxisome proliferation. Three groups of four male and
four female marmosets received DINP, by oral gavage administration, at dosages of
100, 500 or 2500 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks. A fourth group served as a concurrent
Control group and received the vehicle (1% methylcellulose and 0.5% Tween) only. 
A fifth group received clofibrate at a dosage of 500 mg/kg/day to provide a
positive Control for liver peroxisome activity. At the end of the treatment
period, the animals were killed and their livers were removed. 3000 x g
supernatant and microsomal subcellular fractions were prepared from homogenised
liver by differential centrifugation. The peroxisomal marker enzyme activity,
cyanide-insensitive palmitoyl CoA oxidase, was assayed in the former, while
cytochrome P450 concentration and lauric acid 11- and 12-hydroxylase activities
(selective for CYP2E1 and 4A, respectively) were assayed in the microsomes. No
statistically significant changes were seen in any of these parameters measured
following DINP treatment, compared with the Control. Clofibrate treatment
resulted in an approximately 100% increase (p < 0.01) in both male and female
marmoset cyanide-insensitive palmitoyl CoA oxidase activity and a similar
increase (p < 0.05) in male (only) lauric acid 11-hydroxylase activity. No other 
changes were statistically significant at the 5% level. These data provide no
evidence that DINP was acting as a peroxisome proliferator when administered to
marmosets under the conditions of the study.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.24.3_237 
PMID: 10478338  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

