

3407. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1999 Sep-Oct;94(5):649-53.

Polymorphism in trypomastigotes of Trypanosoma (Megatrypanum) minasense in the
blood of experimentally infected squirrel monkey and marmosets.

Ziccardi M(1), Lourenco-de-Oliveira R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Transmissores de Hematozoários, Departamento de Entomologia,
Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 21045-900, Brasil.
ziccardi@gene.dbbm.fiocruz.br

Experimental infections by Trypanosoma (Megatrypanum) minasense were performed in
primates - Saimiri sciureus and Callithrix penicillata - with the objective of
searching for morphological variations of the blood trypomastigotes with respect 
to hosts and time of infection. We carried out morphological and morphometric
analysis of blood trypomastigotes. Illustrations are given. Both the squirrel
monkey and marmoset became infected after the injection of blood trypomastigotes 
of T. minasense, although the parasitaemia were briefer in the squirrel monkey.
The parasites detected in the later host were narrower and shorter than those
found in the inoculated marmoset. In the marmoset, the blood stream parasites
derived from culture metacyclic trypomastigotes were considerably smaller than
those derived from the inoculation of infected blood. Stronger evidence of
polymorphism was found when, at the same time of infection, the blood
trypomastigotes found in squirrel monkey had smaller length, body width and the
distance from posterior end of the body to the kinetoplast almost four times
smaller than the parasite found in the marmoset. Therefore, conflicting results
on morphology and morphometry of T. minasense obtained by previous investigators 
could be due to polymorphism.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761999000500016 
PMID: 10464410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

