

3408. Arch Toxicol. 1999 Jun-Jul;73(4-5):203-7.

Increase in urinary excretion of 6beta-hydroxycortisol in common marmosets as a
marker of hepatic CYP3A induction.

Totsuka S(1), Watanabe T, Koyanagi F, Tanaka K, Yasuda M, Manabe S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory Animal Science and Toxicology Laboratories, Sankyo Co., Ltd.,
Fukuroi, Shizuoka, Japan.

The ratio of urinary 6beta-hydroxycortisol (6beta-OHF) to free cortisol (F),
i.e., the 6beta-OHF/F ratio, has been reported to be a specific marker for human 
CYP3A induction by in vivo studies of human subjects. In the development of
drugs, it is quite beneficial to predict human CYP3A induction in preclinical
safety studies using urine samples from experimental animals. We examined the
6beta-OHF/F ratio in urine of common marmosets administered with rifampicin, a
potent inducer of CYP3A, to evaluate the usefulness of common marmosets for the
prediction of CYP3A induction. Rifampicin was orally administered to three groups
of four male common marmosets at doses of 0, 10, and 20 mg/kg per day for 4 days.
Amounts of 6beta-OHF and F in urine samples were determined by means of
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) during the experimental period. One
day after the 4th dosing, animals were killed, and P450 contents and
P450-catalyzed. 7-alkoxycoumarin O-dealkylase (ACD) activities in the liver were 
measured. Western blot analysis of liver microsomes was also performed using
anti-rat P450 (CYP1A1, 2B1/2, 3A, and 4A) antibodies. The results indicated
elevations in the 6beta-OHF/F ratios that were dependent on both the dosing
period and dose levels adopted. The ratios on day 4 reached 4.7- and 5.3-fold the
pre-administration values in the 10 and 20 mg/kg per day groups, respectively.
P450 contents and ACD activities were also elevated in all of the groups. Western
blot analysis showed specific increases in the protein which cross-reacts with
anti-rat CYP3A antibody in all of the groups. Furthermore, the 6beta-OHF/F ratio 
was well correlated with the CYP3A contents in liver (r = 0.906). These results
indicated that increase in urinary excretion of 6beta-OHF is a specific marker of
the induction of hepatic CYP3A in common marmosets just as in humans.
Consequently, the present study suggested that human CYP3A induction elicited by 
chemical agents can be predicted in common marmosets by measuring the urinary
excretion of 6beta-OHF.

DOI: 10.1007/s002040050607 
PMID: 10463384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

