

3411. Biol Reprod. 1999 Sep;61(3):582-9.

Magnetic cell sorting is a fast and effective method of enriching viable
spermatogonia from Djungarian hamster, mouse, and marmoset monkey testes.

von Schönfeldt V(1), Krishnamurthy H, Foppiani L, Schlatt S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reproductive Medicine of the University Münster, 48149 Münster,
Germany.

Germ cell transplantation, which offers promising new approaches for research and
clinical applications, has focused interest on spermatogonia. This paper
describes a procedure that permits the isolation of large quantities of viable
spermatogonia. The immunomagnetic isolation procedure was applied to testicular
cell suspensions from photoinhibited and photostimulated Djungarian hamsters,
mice, and marmoset monkeys. The cells were incubated with a polyclonal rabbit
anti-c-kit IgG, binding of which was characterized by immunohistochemical
staining. For magnetic labeling, a secondary anti-rabbit IgG conjugated to
ferromagnetic microbeads was used. Separation columns allowed the retention of
magnetically labeled cells within the matrix. The magnetic fractions were eluted 
after removal of the column from the magnetic field. All fractions were analyzed 
for cellular morphology and by flow cytometry. The final enrichment of
c-kit-positive cells in the magnetic fraction using fully active testes was in
the range of 25-55% with a viability rate of 80-90%. The magnetic fractions of
all three species were characterized by high numbers of diploid cells.
Cytological analysis revealed a strong enrichment of spermatogonia. No haploid
cells were retained in the magnetic fraction. In comparison to conventional
procedures, magnetic cell separation is an efficient and fast approach for
isolation of spermatogonia.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod61.3.582 
PMID: 10456832  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

