

3416. Ann Neurol. 1999 Aug;46(2):144-60.

Demyelination in primate autoimmune encephalomyelitis and acute multiple
sclerosis lesions: a case for antigen-specific antibody mediation.

Raine CS(1), Cannella B, Hauser SL, Genain CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology (Neuropathology), Albert Einstein College of Medicine,
Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Neurol. 1999 Aug;46(2):141-2.

Neuropathological and ultrastructural features of central nervous system
demyelination were compared in marmoset experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
(EAE) induced with myelin/oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), and in 3 cases of
multiple sclerosis (MS) displaying recent lesions. At the edges of EAE and MS
lesions, a zone of myelin vacuolation was common, whereas in the lesion proper,
myelin sheaths were consistently transformed into vesiculated membranous
networks. These networks became dissociated from axons by cell processes from
macrophages. Oligodendrocytes were remarkably spared and evidence of myelin
repair was present but not prominent. Axonal pathology was more common in the MS 
material than in marmoset EAE. Immunocytochemistry, using gold-labeled
encephalitogenic peptides of MOG and silver enhancement to detect MOG
autoantibodies, revealed the presence of MOG-specific autoantibodies over
vesiculated myelin networks. Gold-labeled antibody to IgG also gave a positive
reaction. Gold-labeled peptide of myelin basic protein did not react with MOG/EAE
tissue, but the same conjugate gave positive staining in MS (and in marmoset EAE 
induced by whole white matter), perhaps indicating broader spectrum
immunoreactivity or sensitization to myelin antigens. Thus, vesicular disruption 
of myelin was a constant feature in these evolving, highly active lesions in
primate EAE and MS and appeared causally related to the deposition of
antigen-specific autoantibodies.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8249(199908)46:2<144::aid-ana3>3.0.co;2-k 
PMID: 10443879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

