

3420. Electrophoresis. 1999 Jun;20(7):1527-32.

Simultaneous analysis of endogenous neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in brain 
tissue using capillary electrophoresis--microelectrospray-tandem mass
spectrometry.

Jäverfalk-Hoyes EM(1), Bondesson U, Westerlund D, Andrén PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, National Veterinary Institute, Uppsala, Sweden.

Capillary electrophoresis was combined with highly sensitive
microelectrospray-tandem mass spectrometry to simultaneously detect classical
small molecule neurotransmitters as well as neuropeptides from discrete regions
of the marmoset brain. A mixture of four classical neurotransmitters (glutamate, 
gamma-aminobutyric acid, acetylcholine, dopamine) and four neuropeptides
(neurotensin, methionine-enkephalin, leucine-enkephalin and substance P 1-7) was 
studied to optimize the capillary electrophoresis conditions for separation,
injection volume, and analysis time. Gamma-aminopropyltriethoxysilane-coated
capillaries and acetic acid electrolytes were used to avoid interactions between 
the sample and the capillary surface and to obtain a high anodic electroosmotic
flow, which resulted in a short analysis time. Detection was performed using
tandem mass spectrometry in the selected reaction monitoring mode using a triple 
quadrupole mass spectrometer. Samples were dissolved in ammonium acetate to
achieve a transient-isotachophoretic concentration step at the beginning of the
separation and to make it possible to inject larger sample volumes, up to 140 nL.
Small amounts of tissue from specific regions of the marmoset monkey brain were
pretreated using solid-phase extraction as a clean-up and concentrating step. In 
the striatum we could detect endogenous glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid
(GABA), acetylcholine and dopamine, as well as the neuropeptides
methionine-enkephalin and substance P 1-7 in the same analysis, using only 58 mm3
of brain tissue.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1522-2683(19990601)20:7<1527::AID-ELPS1527>3.0.CO;2-9 
PMID: 10424476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

