

3423. Anat Rec. 1999 Jul 1;255(3):241-51.

Ultrastructural studies of glycan changes in the apical surface of the uterine
epithelium during pre-ovulatory and and pre-implantation stages in the marmoset
monkey.

Niklaus AL(1), Murphy CR, Lopata A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.

It has been postulated that carbohydrates are involved in a variety of cell-cell 
interactions including blastocyst implantation. In primates, there are only
limited investigations on the ultrastructural localisation of the cyclic changes 
in uterine epithelial surface carbohydrates. Our aim was to investigate such
changes during the pre-ovulatory and pre-implantation stages of the reproductive 
cycle in the marmoset monkey. After fixation of endometrial tissues,
avidin-ferritin lectin cytochemistry was employed for apical surface glycan
detection at the ultrastructural level. Five lectins were used including
Canavalia ensiformis (Con A), Lotus tetragonolobus (LTA), Glycine max (SBA),
Phytolacca americana (PWM) and Triticum vulgaris (WGA). Morphometry was used to
quantitate changes in the intensity of lectin staining by determining the total
number of ferritin particles per unit length of membrane. Surface and
intra-cytoplasmic vesicles, stained by the lectins, were also examined.
Quantitative ferritin assessment showed that 1 day before presumed implantation
(days 11 to 12 after ovulation in the marmoset monkey) there was a significant
increase in Con A, LTA and SBA staining on the apical uterine epithelial plasma
membrane compared to the pre-ovulatory phase and earlier stages of pregnancy
(days 4-8 after ovulation). A significant increase in PWM was also detected from 
early pregnancy to pre-implantation stages. All lectins except WGA produced
reproducible staining within reproductive cycle groups. The greatest variation
and intensity of epithelial surface staining was observed with WGA and the
weakest with LTA. The patchy staining with LTA compared with thick coverage by
WGA indicated the complexity of the carbohydrate arrangement in the glycocalyx of
the uterine surface plasma membrane. Reduction of WGA reactivity after
neuraminidase treatment suggested that the lectin binding might be related to the
presence of heavily sialylated apical uterine membrane glycoconjugates. This is
the first high-resolution study in primates to report quantitative cyclic changes
in fucosyl, galactosyl, glucosyl, and mannosyl sugar residues of the apical
uterine epithelial glycocalyx. The findings support the concept that uterine
epithelial glycocalyx surface carbohydrates play a role in preparing a receptive 
uterine surface.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0185(19990701)255:3<241::AID-AR1>3.0.CO;2-K 
PMID: 10411392  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

