

3432. J Med Primatol. 1999 Feb;28(1):36-47.

Efficacy and effects of short- and medium-term contraception in the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) using melengestrol acetate implants.

Möhle U(1), Heistermann M, Einspanier A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen.
moehle@www.dpz.gwdg.de

This study examines the effect of melengestrol acetate (MGA) implants on
reproductive function and various biochemical parameters, ovarian activity, and
uterine morphology in ten female common marmosets implanted for either 6-8 or
19-21 months. Measures of body weight, concentrations of urinary glucose and
blood liver enzymes were taken. Ovarian activity was assessed by analysis of
urinary progestin levels and ultrasound examinations of the ovaries.
Ultrasonography was also used to evaluate uterine morphology. MGA was highly
effective in preventing pregnancies in the study animals. No changes in
biochemical parameters were found; however, seven females developed a substantial
weight gain during the study. Follicular development was not suppressed, as
indicated by the presence of antral follicles, luteinized structures, and
elevated urinary progestin levels. The uteri of the MGA-treated subjects were
moderately enlarged with a thickened endometrium that showed a marked change in
structural appearance indicative of hypertrophy and decidualization. After
implant removal these changes quickly disappeared and all females ovulated within
3 weeks and conceived within 4 months post-treatment. MGA appears to be an
acceptable contraceptive in the marmoset, although non-steroidal methods should
be evaluated as possible potential alternatives.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1999.tb00087.x 
PMID: 10372539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

