

3438. J Physiol. 1999 Jun 15;517 ( Pt 3):907-17.

Temporal contrast sensitivity in the lateral geniculate nucleus of a New World
monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Solomon SG(1), White AJ, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, University of 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

Comment in
    J Physiol. 1999 Jun 15;517 ( Pt 3):630.

1. The temporal contrast sensitivity of koniocellular, parvocellular and
magnocellular cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of nine adult
marmosets was measured. The receptive fields of the cells were between 0.3 and 70
deg from the fovea. The stimulus was a large spatially uniform field which was
modulated in luminance at temporal frequencies between 0.98 and 64 Hz. 2. For
each cell group there was a gradual increase in modulation sensitivity,
especially for temporal frequencies below 8 Hz, with increasing distance from the
fovea. At any given eccentricity, magnocellular cells had the greatest
sensitivity. In central visual field, the sensitivity of koniocellular cells lay 
between that of parvocellular and magnocellular cells. In peripheral visual field
(above 10 deg eccentricity) koniocellular and parvocellular cells had similar
sensitivity. 3. The contrast sensitivity of each cell class was dependent on the 
anaesthetic used. Cells from animals anaesthetized with isoflurane were less
sensitive than cells from animals anaesthetized with sufentanil. This effect was 
more marked for temporal frequencies below 4 Hz. 4. These results are
incompatible with the notion that the koniocellular pathway is functionally
homologous to a sluggish, W-like pathway in other mammals. At least in terms of
their temporal transfer properties, many koniocellular cells are more like
parvocellular cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7793.1999.0907s.x 
PMCID: PMC2269368
PMID: 10358129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

