

3440. J Endocrinol. 1999 Jun;161(3):433-43.

Direct effects of the prostaglandins E2 and f2alpha on progesterone release by
the corpus luteum of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) studied by in vitro
microdialysis.

Fehrenbach A(1), Hodges JK, Einspanier A.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Anatomy, Electron Microscopy, University of Göttingen, Kreuzbergring
36, D-37075 Göttingen, Germany.

The effects of the prostaglandins (PG) E2 and F2alpha on progesterone secretion
in luteal tissue (32 corpora lutea) explanted from the mid-luteal ovary of the
marmoset monkey (n=13) were investigated using an in vitro microdialysis system. 
Consecutive applications of 1, 10 and 100 microg/ml PGE2 resulted in a
significant increase in secretion of progesterone at the maximum dose of 100
microg/ml, which was shown to be the stimulatory dose in both long-period and
20-min pulse (time to collect one fraction) applications. The response varied
individually between 1.4- and 3. 4-fold above the baseline concentrations.
Application of 500 microg/ml PGF2alpha led to similar hormone responses. In
contrast, lower doses of PGF2alpha (0.5, 5 and 50 microg/ml) resulted in
significantly increased levels of secretion of progesterone, to approximately
1.4-fold baseline values, only after the application was terminated (echo
effect). Responses were less variable when a short pulse of 20 min duration was
applied, instead of long applications of 1-2 h. On the basis of the passage rates
measured for tritiated PGF2alpha, transfer through the dialysis membrane was
assumed to be in the range of 1% for both PGs. Ultrastructurally, luteal cells
lying in a sheath of five to seven cell layers around the dialysis tubing
appeared intact and were interconnected by gap junctions. Vesiculation of the
smooth endoplasmic reticulum was more prominent after PG treatment, indicating a 
stimulation of cellular synthesis/secretory activities that was in accordance
with the stimulatory action of both PGs on progesterone release under these in
vitro conditions.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1610433 
PMID: 10333546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

