

3445. Vision Res. 1999 Jan;39(2):177-87.

Normal development of refractive state and ocular component dimensions in the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Graham B(1), Judge SJ.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, Oxford, UK.

Refractive state and ocular dimensions were studied longitudinally in nine normal
marmosets. Animals were anaesthetised and examined (with some exceptions) at 4,
6, 7, 8, 10, 15, 24 and 39 weeks of age. Cycloplegic retinoscopy showed that
hyperopia early in life rapidly diminished. Refraction corrected for the artefact
of retinoscopy stabilised by 8 weeks of age, but at a slightly myopic value,
rather than at emmetropia. The ocular components continued to change throughout
the period studied. Corneal radius, measured by photokeratometry, increased
slightly during development. Anterior segment depth and vitreous chamber depth
(VCD), measured by A-scan ultrasonography, increased throughout development while
lens thickness initially increased and then decreased. Data from the eyes of
these normal animals were compared with that from the contralateral eyes of
animals which received short periods of monocular deprivation early in life
(Troilo, D., & Judge S.J. (1993). Ocular development and visual deprivation
myopia in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus). Vision Research, 33, 
1311-24); eyes which viewed through no lens or a plano lens (Graham, B. & Judge, 
S.J. (1999)). The effects of spectacle wear in infancy on eye growth and
refractive error in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Vision Research, 39,
189-206), and eyes of normal animals in another colony. There were no significant
differences between the first two groups and the normal animals in our colony
while age-matched animals from the other colony were slightly but significantly
less myopic than our animals.

DOI: 10.1016/s0042-6989(98)00188-6 
PMID: 10326129  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

