

3447. Mol Hum Reprod. 1999 Apr;5(4):342-52.

Design and evaluation of a ZP3 peptide vaccine in a homologous primate model.

Paterson M(1), Wilson MR, Jennings ZA, van Duin M, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive
Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The concept of a safe, immunocontraceptive vaccine using the zona pellucida
glycoprotein 3 (ZP3) as an immunogen has been marred by the appearance of ovarian
dysfunction in several species. However, careful selection of epitopes on mouse
ZP3 have demonstrated that it is possible to segregate contraceptive bone
marrow-derived (B)-cell epitopes from the cytotoxic thymus-derived (T)-cell
epitopes thought to be responsible for inducing ovarian disease. B-cell epitopes 
on marmoset ZP3 (mstZP3) were identified by epitope mapping studies. Using a
panel of polyclonal antibodies against recombinant mstZP3, an immunodominant
epitope mstZP3(301-320) was identified. A chimeric peptide was co-linearly
synthesized incorporating this sequence with a promiscuous tetanus toxoid
T-helper cell epitope. Using the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as an
animal model, we have compared the consequences of active immunization with
homologous recombinant mstZP3 and mstZP3(301-320) chimeric peptide vaccine.
Long-term infertility was achieved using mstZP3 but at the expense of ovarian
function. In contrast, no disruption to ovarian function was observed following
mstZP3(301-320) immunization. Antibodies to this peptide immunolocalized to the
zona pellucida of both marmoset and human ovarian sections and inhibited human
sperm-zona binding by approximately 60% in vitro. However, in-vivo studies
indicated that targeting a single ZP3 epitope was insufficient to reliably and
consistently achieve a contraceptive effect.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/5.4.342 
PMID: 10321806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

