

3450. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1999 Jun;12(1):74-82.

Molecular phylogeny of new world primates (Platyrrhini) based on
beta2-microglobulin DNA sequences.

Canavez FC(1), Moreira MA, Ladasky JJ, Pissinatti A, Parham P, Seu√°nez HN.

Author information: 
(1)Fairchild Building D-100, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford,
California, 94305-5126, USA.

Neotropical primates, traditionally grouped in the infraorder Platyrrhini,
comprise 16 extant genera. Cladistic analyses based on morphological
characteristics and molecular data resulted in topologic arrangements depicting
disparate phylogenetic relationships, indicating that the evolution of gross
morphological characteristics and molecular traits is not necessarily congruent. 
Here we present a phylogenetic arrangement for all neotropical primate genera
obtained from DNA sequence analyses of the beta2-microglobulin gene. Parsimony,
distance, and maximum likelihood analyses favored two families, Atelidae and
Cebidae, each containing 8 genera. Atelids were resolved into atelines and
pitheciines. The well-supported ateline clade branched into alouattine (Alouatta)
and ateline (Ateles, Lagothrix, Brachyteles) clades. In turn, within the Ateline 
clade, Lagothrix and Brachyteles were well-supported sister groups. The
pitheciines branched into well-supported callicebine (Callicebus) and pitheciine 
(Pithecia, Cacajao, Chiropotes) clades. In turn, within the pitheciine clade,
Cacajao and Chiropotes were well-supported sister groups. The cebids branched
into callitrichine (Saguinus, Leontopithecus, Callimico, Callithrix-Cebuella),
cebine (Cebus, Saimiri), and aotine (Aotus) clades. While the callitrichine clade
and the groupings of species and genera within this clade were all well
supported, the cebine clade received only modest support, and the position of
Aotus could not be clearly established. Cladistic analyses favored the
proposition of 15 rather than 16 extant genera by including Cebuella pygmaea in
the genus Callithrix as the sister group of the Callithrix argentata species
group. These analyses also favored the sister grouping of Callimico with
Callithrix and then of Leontopithecus with the Callithrix-Callimico clade.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1998.0589 
PMID: 10222163  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

