

3452. Free Radic Biol Med. 1999 Mar;26(5-6):495-500.

Positive correlation between mammalian life span and cellular resistance to
stress.

Kapahi P(1), Boulton ME, Kirkwood TB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine and The School of Biological Sciences,
University of Manchester, UK.

Identifying the mechanisms determining species-specific life spans is a central
challenge in understanding the biology of aging. Cellular stresses produce
damage, that may accumulate and cause aging. Evolution theory predicts that
long-lived species secure their longevity through investment in a more durable
soma, including enhanced cellular resistance to stress. To investigate whether
cells from long-lived species have better mechanisms to cope with oxidative and
non-oxidative stress, we compared cellular resistance of primary skin fibroblasts
from eight mammalian species with a range of life spans. Cell survival was
measured by the thymidine incorporation assay following stresses induced by
paraquat, hydrogen peroxide, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, sodium arsenite and
alkaline pH (sodium hydroxide). Significant positive correlations between cell
LD90 and maximum life span were found for all these stresses. Similar results
were obtained when cell survival was measured by the MTT assay, and when
lymphocytes from different species were compared. Cellular resistance to a
variety of oxidative and non-oxidative stresses was positively correlated with
mammalian longevity. Our results support the concept that the gene network
regulating the cellular response to stress is functionally important in aging and
longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(98)00323-2 
PMID: 10218637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

