

3453. Zygote. 1999 Feb;7(1):27-35.

Cloning, sequencing and site of origin of the rat sperm receptor protein, ZP3.

Scobie GA(1), Kerr LE, MacDuff P, Aitken RJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Edinburgh, UK.

The ZP3 gene encodes for a zona glycoprotein that serves as both a cell-specific 
binding site for capacitated spermatozoa and an inducer of acrosomal exocytosis
during fertilisation. In this study we have determined the nucleotide sequence of
rat ZP3 (accession no. Y10823), predicted primary amino acid structure and
determined the cellular origin of this molecule within the ovary. Rat ZP3 was
found to have an open reading frame of 1272 nucleotides encoding a polypeptide
chain of 424 amino acids that was expressed exclusively by the actively growing
oocyte population. Rat ZP3 exhibited 91%, 78% and 66% identity with the mouse,
hamster and human homologues, respectively. Key features of mouse ZP3, including 
the number and location of cysteine and proline residues and N-linked
glycosylation sites, were also conserved in the rat homologue. The putative
O-linked glycosylation sites, a series of serine residues at ZP3(329-334), were
also conserved in rat and mouse ZP3, although immediately downstream of this site
the amino acid sequences deviated over a short stretch of amino acids. The
hydropathicity profile revealed two hydrophobic domains. The first was associated
with a putative N-terminal signal sequence which is unusual in the rat in
possessing a proline residue at the -1 position relative to the signal cleavage
site, a feature it shares with human and marmoset ZP3 but not mouse. The second
hydrophobic domain was observed at the C-terminus downstream of a TGF-beta type
III receptor domain that appears to be common to all ZP3 sequences examined to
date.

DOI: 10.1017/s0967199499000362 
PMID: 10216914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

