

3457. J Hum Evol. 1999 Apr;36(4):349-78.

Hand specialization, sympatry, and mixed-species associations in callitrichines.

CÃ©sar J(1), Bicca-Marques JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 109
Davenport Hall, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

Hand morphology in callitrichines (i.e., tamarins, marmosets, and Goeldi's
monkey) is correlated with positional and foraging behaviors. This study examines
hand shape in callitrichines using an allometric approach. It addresses a series 
of questions relating hand anatomy, insect foraging behavior, and resource
partitioning in callitrichines. The main questions are: 1. Do the hands of
Leontopithecus differ in shape from all other callitrichine taxa allowing it to
perform highly manipulative prey foraging behaviors? 2. Are the hands of Saguinus
fuscicollis adapted to manipulative foraging, and are they functionally similar
to Leontopithecus' hands? 3. Is hand morphology in S. fuscicollis more similar to
the hand morphology of sympatric tamarin species with whom it does not form mixed
species troops (S. nigricollis and S. tripartitus) than to those sympatric
tamarin species with whom it does form mixed troops (S. mystax, S. labiatus, and 
S. imperator)? Measurements of hand length (HL), width (HW), and thickness (HT)
were taken from 1350 museum specimens of callitrichines (Callithrix, Cebuella,
Leontopithecus, Saguinus, and Callimico), squirrel monkeys (Saimiri), and owl
monkeys (Aotus). The analysis indicates that hand shape covaries with foraging
strategy. Specifically, the hands of Leontopithecus are adapted for manipulative 
foraging and are relatively longer and more slender than the hands of other
callitrichines. A similar pattern is observed in the hands of S. fuscicollis, S. 
tripartitus and S. nigricollis. These latter species, however, differ
significantly in shape from all other tamarin species. Large differences in hand 
morphology are observed among tamarin species that form mixed-species troops.
These anatomical differences may permit resource partitioning and coexistence
among these closely related taxa. Hand shape, expressed as log HLGM (logged hand 
length divided by the geometric mean of all measurements), is a good predictor of
manipulative and non-manipulative prey foraging techniques employed by
callitrichines.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jhev.1998.0272 
PMID: 10208791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

