

3463. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1999 Apr;11(3):459-76.

Phylogenetic relationships of the New World monkeys (Primates, platyrrhini) based
on nuclear G6PD DNA sequences.

von Dornum M(1), Ruvolo M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
02138, USA. m.dornum@ucl.ac.uk

In order to test hypotheses about the phylogenetic relationships among living
genera of New World monkeys, 1.3 kb of DNA sequence information was collected for
two introns of the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) locus, encoded on the
X chromosome, for 24 species of New World monkeys. These data were analyzed using
a maximum parsimony algorithm. The strict consensus of the three
most-parsimonious gene trees that result shows support for the following clades: 
a pitheciine clade including Callicebus within which Chiropotes and Cacajao are
sister taxa, an Alouatta-atelin clade within which Brachyteles is the sister
taxon of Lagothrix and which is sister to another clade containing the
callitrichines, and a callitrichine/Aotus/Cebus/Saimiri clade. Within the
callitrichines, Callimico is the sister taxon of Callithrix. Cebus and Saimiri
form a clade. These results are broadly consistent with previously published DNA 
sequence analyses of platyrrhine phylogeny and provide additional support for
groupings provisionally proposed in those earlier studies. Nevertheless,
questions remain as to the relative phylogenetic placement of Leontopithecus and 
Saguinus, the branching order within the Aotus/Cebus/Saimiri/callitrichine clade,
and the placement of the pitheciine clade relative to the atelines and the
callitrichines.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1998.0582 
PMID: 10196085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

