

3464. Exp Neurol. 1999 Mar;156(1):121-9.

Functional benefit from clomethiazole treatment after focal cerebral ischemia in 
a nonhuman primate species.

Marshall JW(1), Cross AJ, Ridley RM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing
Street, Cambridge, CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.

Clomethiazole (CMZ) (Zendra) is neuroprotective in rodents following focal and
global ischemia. However, its neuroprotective effects in other species,
particularly on functional outcome, have not been reported. We have therefore
examined the ability of CMZ to ameliorate the functional deficits produced by a
focal cerebral ischemic lesion in the marmoset, a New World primate. Six monkeys 
received permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO); six further monkeys 
received pMCAO with administration of CMZ, 5 min after the arterial occlusion, by
intraperitoneal bolus injection and by subcutaneous implantation of an osmotic
minipump, which released CMZ for 24 h. The monkeys were trained and tested
preoperatively on a number of behavioral tasks which were repeated 3 and 9 weeks 
after surgery. CMZ-treated monkeys were better than non-drug-treated monkeys at
using the disabled arm contralateral to the lesion and also showed a reduction in
contralateral spatial hemineglect. Postmortem histopathological analysis at
several stereotaxic levels showed a significant reduction in the area of ischemic
damage in CMZ-treated monkeys compared to that in untreated animals. CMZ
treatment reduced the overall volume of damage by 31.8% (MCA group, 370.8 +/-
37.4 mm3 of damage; CMZ group, 253.0 +/- 38.0 mm3 of damage). This study
demonstrates that CMZ is neuroprotective in a nonhuman primate species and is
able to ameliorate the level of functional disability and reduce the size of
infarct produced by focal cerebral ischemia.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.1998.6994 
PMID: 10192783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

