

3465. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1999 Feb;142(1):51-60.

Actions of the D1 agonists A-77636 and A-86929 on locomotion and dyskinesia in
MPTP-treated L-dopa-primed common marmosets.

Pearce RK(1), Jackson M, Britton DR, Shiosaki K, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Clinical Neurology, Institute of Neurology, The
National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, UK.

Common marmosets show parkinsonian motor deficits following
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) administration and develop
dyskinesias during chronic L-dopa exposure. The D1 agonists A-77636 [(1R, 3S)
3-(1'-adamantyl)-1-aminomethyl-3, 4-dihydro-5, 6-dihydroxy-1H-2-benzopyran HCl]
and A-86929 [(-)-trans 9, 10-hydroxy-2-propyl-4, 5, 5a, 6, 7,
11b-hexahydro-3-thia-5-azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene hydrochloride] possess
potent antiparkinsonian activity in the MPTP-treated marmoset and we now assess
their influence on L-dopa-induced dyskinesias. MPTP-treated marmosets with stable
motor deficits were treated with L-dopa plus carbidopa for 28 days to induce
dyskinesias. Subsequently, they received A-86929 for 10 days, initially at 0.5
micromol/kg and then at 1.0 micromol/kg for a further 5 days. Several months
later, L-dopa 12.5 mg/kg plus carbidopa 12.5 mg/kg was given orally twice daily
for 7 days, followed by A-77636 1 micromol/kg for 10 days, and then both A-77636 
and L-dopa plus carbidopa were given concurrently for 3 further days. In these
L-dopa-primed animals, A-86929 effectively reversed akinesia and produced
dose-dependent dyskinesias which were significantly less intense than those
produced by L-dopa administration. A degree of behavioral tolerance was
encountered, but antiparkinsonian activity was preserved and elicited behaviour
was free of hyperkinesis and stereotypy and more naturalistic than that seen with
L-dopa. After a week of twice-daily L-dopa dosing, administration of the
long-acting D1 agonist A-77636 initially dramatically enhanced locomotion and
reproduced dyskinesia with prominent dystonia, but after repeated administration 
of A-77636, dyskinesia and in particular chorea, gradually disappeared. Tolerance
to locomotor stimulation greater than with A-86929 occurred, although activity
remained significantly above baseline levels. There was a marked reduction in
L-dopa-induced climbing, stereotypy and hyperkinesis and behaviour more closely
resembled that of normal unlesioned marmosets. Upon reintroduction of L-dopa
concurrently with continued A-77636 administration, dystonic, but virtually no
choreic dyskinesias appeared and behaviour was once again free of stereotypy and 
hyperkinesis, contrasting dramatically with the presence of these behaviours
along with abundant chorea when L-dopa is given alone. These results show a
lesser liability of A-86929 and A-77636 to reproduce dyskinesia in L-dopa-primed 
MPTP-lesioned subjects while maintaining effective antiparkinsonian activity and 
producing a more naturalistic motor response. The differential effects of A-77636
on chorea and dystonia, with suppression of chorea and stereotypy on
co-administration with L-dopa, may reflect an altered balance of activity in the 
direct and indirect striatofugal pathways. These results suggest a possible role 
for D1 agonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s002130050861 
PMID: 10102782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

