

3466. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Mar 29;406(1):1-14.

Analysis of the short wavelength-sensitive ("blue") cone mosaic in the primate
retina: comparison of New World and Old World monkeys.

Martin PR(1), Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. paulm@physiol.usyd.edu.au

The distribution of short wavelength-sensitive (SWS or "blue") cone
photoreceptors was compared in primates with dichromatic ("red-green colour
blind") and trichromatic colour vision. We compared a New World species, the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), with an Old World species, the macaque monkey
(Macaca nemestrina). The SWS cones were identified by their immunoreactivity to
an antiserum against the human SWS cone opsin. A single retina from a male
capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) also was studied. The SWS cones make up less than 
10% of all cone photoreceptors throughout the retina of all animals studied. In
marmoset, the peak spatial density of SWS cones is close to 10,000/mm2 at the
foveola. In macaque, the peak spatial density of SWS cones, close to 6,000/mm2,
is at the fovea, but SWS cones are absent within 50 microm of the centre of the
foveola. In both species, the density of SWS cones is higher on the nasal retinal
axis than at corresponding eccentricities on the other retinal axes. The SWS
cones in macaque are arranged in a semiregular array, but they are distributed
randomly in marmoset. There is no difference in the spatial density or local
arrangement of SWS cones between dichromatic and trichromatic marmosets. The
results suggest that the SWS cone photoreceptor system is subject to different
developmental and evolutionary constraints than those that have led to the
formation of the red-green photoreceptor systems in primate vision.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19990329)406:1<1::aid-cne1>3.0.co;2-1 
PMID: 10100889  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

