

3467. Eur J Pharmacol. 1999 Feb 26;368(1):57-66.

New hyperprolactinemia and anovulation model in common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) and effect of cabergoline.

Moro M(1), Inada Y, Kojima M, Miyata H, Komatsu H, Torii R.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Laboratories, Kissei Pharmaceutical, Kashiwabara, Nagano,
Japan.

We aimed to develop an anovulation model, using sulpiride-induced
hyperprolactinemia in common marmosets. The serum prolactin level gradually
increased during the twice-daily administration of sulpiride and reached a
plateau after 4 days. Sulpiride produced as big a response at 10 mg kg(-1) as at 
50 mg kg(-1). In this study, the length of the ovarian cycle was approximately 30
days in normal common marmosets. Serum progesterone and estradiol levels showed
no consistent change during the first 2 months of treatment with sulpiride. When 
treatment with sulpiride had been continued for more than 2 months, serum
progesterone and estradiol levels fell to within the range seen in the follicular
phase of the normal cycle and absence of ovulation was recognized by laparoscopy.
A single oral administration of cabergoline (at doses between 0.01 and 0.1 mg
kg(-1)) dose dependently reduced the elevated serum prolactin level.
Bromocriptine (at an oral dose of 10 mg kg(-1)) also reduced the serum prolactin 
level at 4 and 8 h after its administration. With bromocriptine, the prolactin
level had recovered at 24 h, but with cabergoline at doses of 0.05 mg kg(-1) or
more, it had still not recovered at 48 h. In anovulatory common marmosets, oral
administration of cabergoline at a daily dose of 0.05 mg kg(-1) restored ovarian 
function and resulted in ovulation in 100% of the group (following a reduction in
the serum prolactin level). Bromocriptine at a daily oral dose of 10 mg kg(-1)
resulted in ovulation in 67% of the group, but this dose was about 200 times
higher than the dose of cabergoline. We could produce an anovulatory model
induced by sulpiride repeatedly administered over a long time period. It is
suggested that, in this anovulatory model in common marmosets, cabergoline has a 
potent and long-lasting action as a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, and thus could 
be a useful drug for the treatment of galactorrhea and hyperprolactinemic
amenorrhea and/or anovulation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-2999(98)00940-6 
PMID: 10096770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

