

3471. Am J Primatol. 1999;47(3):255-61.

Ingestion of calcium solutions by common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Power ML(1), Tardif SD, Layne DG, Schulkin J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoological Research, National Zoological Park, Washington, DC
20008, USA. MPOWER@NZP.SI.EDU

Callithrix jacchus, the common marmoset, is a small New World primate that feeds 
on insects, fruit, and gum, and has a high reproductive rate for a primate.
Insects are generally a poor source of dietary calcium, while gums may contain
significant levels of calcium. Their high reproductive rate also suggests that
reproductive female C. jacchus might be susceptible to calcium deficiency. Thus, 
we hypothesized that common marmosets might find solutions containing calcium to 
be palatable. We used choice experiments to examine this phenomenon in 14 male
and 19 female common marmosets. Animals were presented with identical water
bottles containing either deionized water or a calcium lactate solution (either
2% or 4% calcium lactate by weight) and intake was measured. Serum 25-OH-vitamin 
D was monitored in a subset of the animals in the experiment to examine the role 
of vitamin D in this behavior. Our results demonstrated that C. jacchus can
distinguish between plain water and a calcium lactate solution, and that in
general they prefer calcium solutions. Although animals with marginal vitamin D
status did have strong preferences for calcium solutions, they did not ingest
significantly more of the calcium solutions than animals that were vitamin
D-replete. Nulliparous females and males did not differ in the amounts of calcium
solutions ingested. Lactating females ingested the greatest volume of the calcium
solutions.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1999)47:3<255::AID-AJP7>3.0.CO;2-W 
PMID: 10075439  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

