

348. J Neurophysiol. 2020 Apr 1;123(4):1420-1426. doi: 10.1152/jn.00300.2019. Epub
2020 Mar 4.

A platform for semiautomated voluntary training of common marmosets for
behavioral neuroscience.

Walker JD(1)(2), Pirschel F(2), Gidmark N(3), MacLean JN(1)(4)(5), Hatsopoulos
NG(1)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois.
(2)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(3)Biology Department, Knox College, Galesburg, Illinois.
(4)Department of Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(5)Grossman Institute for Neuroscience, Quantitative Biology and Human Behavior, 
University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.

Generally behavioral neuroscience studies of the common marmoset employ
adaptations of well-established training methods used with macaque monkeys.
However, in many cases these approaches do not readily generalize to marmosets
indicating a need for alternatives. Here we present the development of one such
alternate: a platform for semiautomated, voluntary in-home cage behavioral
training that allows for the study of naturalistic behaviors. We describe the
design and production of a modular behavioral training apparatus using CAD
software and digital fabrication. We demonstrate that this apparatus permits
voluntary behavioral training and data collection throughout the marmoset's
waking hours with little experimenter intervention. Furthermore, we demonstrate
the use of this apparatus to reconstruct the kinematics of the marmoset's upper
limb movement during natural foraging behavior.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The study of
marmosets in neuroscience has grown rapidly and presents unique challenges. We
address those challenges with an innovative platform for semiautomated, voluntary
training that allows marmosets to train throughout their waking hours with
minimal experimenter intervention. We describe the use of this platform to
capture upper limb kinematics during foraging and to expand the opportunities for
behavioral training beyond the limits of traditional training sessions. This
flexible platform can easily incorporate other tasks.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00300.2019 
PMCID: PMC7191516
PMID: 32130092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

