

3481. Arzneimittelforschung. 1999 Jan;49(1):13-21.

Effects of the new angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist KRH-594 on several
types of experimental hypertension.

Inada Y(1), Murakami M, Kaido K, Nakao K.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacological Laboratories, Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Nagano, Japan.

The antihypertensive effect of dipotassium (Z)-2-[[5-ethyl-3-[2'-(1H-
tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl-1,3,4-thiadiazoline-2-
ylidene]aminocarbonyl]-1-cyclopentenecarboxylate (CAS 169328-25-0, KRH-594), a
new angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist, was studied in several
experimental hypertensive models. The effects of KRH-594 on the circulating
reninangiotensin system and on renal function were also investigated. Oral
administration of KRH-594 (0.3 or 1 mg/kg) dose-dependently inhibited the
angiotensin II-induced pressor response in common marmosets. KRH-594 (1, 3, or 10
mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently exerted a long-lasting antihypertensive effect in
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and in 2-kidney 1-clip renal hypertensive 
rats (RHRs). Furthermore, repeated oral administration of KRH-594 (3 or 10
mg/kg/d) reduced blood pressure dose-dependently in SHRs, RHRs, and renal
hypertensive dogs without tachycardia and with no evidence of a rebound
phenomenon following drug withdrawal. On the other hand, in deoxycorticosterone
acetate salt rats and normotensive rats, KRH-594 (10 or 30 mg/kg p.o.) did not
have significant effects on systolic blood pressure. In SHRs, KRH-594 (3 or 10
mg/kg/d p.o. for 2 weeks) dose-dependently increased both plasma renin activity
and the plasma angiotensin I concentration, but had no effect on the urinary
excretion of sodium, potassium, and chloride or on creatinine clearance. These
results suggest that KRH-594 should be effective in patients with essential or
renal hypertension.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0031-1300351 
PMID: 10028373  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

