

3488. Biol Reprod. 1999 Feb;60(2):445-53.

Differential splicing and expression of the relaxin-like factor gene in
reproductive tissues of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Zarreh-Hoshyari-Khah MR(1), Einspanier A, Ivell R.

Author information: 
(1)IHF Institute for Hormone and Fertility Research, University of Hamburg, 22529
Hamburg, Germany.

The relaxin-like factor (RLF) is a novel member of the
insulin/relaxin/insulin-like growth factor family of growth factors and hormones 
that is expressed predominantly in the reproductive system, with highest
expression in the Leydig cells of the testis. Using a combination of molecular
and immunological techniques, we have characterized the structure and expression 
of the RLF gene from a primate model, the marmoset monkey, with the intention of 
comparing this with recent results on the closely related hormone relaxin in this
species. As in other species, including the human, RLF gene products can be
detected maximally in Leydig cells and in the follicular theca interna cells and 
corpora lutea of the ovary. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction
analysis confirmed this expression and showed that in the corpus luteum, testis, 
and epididymis, a second, alternative RLF gene transcript was present that is
expressed at low levels and that appears to be derived by differential splicing
of a novel exon. Analysis of genomic DNA from the marmoset showed that in this
species, the single-copy gene contains a longer intronic region separating the
two exons described for the human. Alternative splicing introduces a novel exon
1A between exons 1 and 2, which leads to an altered open reading frame, with a
new stop codon, such that if translated, the novel transcript will encode a
truncated polypeptide comprising a C-terminally extended B-domain.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod60.2.445 
PMID: 9916013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

