

3493. J Hum Hypertens. 1998 Dec;12(12):839-44.

Modulation of nitric oxide improves cyclosporin A-induced hypertension in rats
and primates.

Bartholomeusz B(1), Hardy KJ, Nelson AS, Phillips PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Repatriation Medical Centre, Heidelberg, Victoria,
Australia.

Cyclosporin-induced hypertension is a major complication of immunosuppression in 
transplant recipients but its pathophysiology is only partly understood.
Cyclosporin reduces endothelium-dependent vasodilation and increases endothelin
synthesis and release, which may contribute to this hypertension. We examined the
effects of: (1) nitric oxide enhancement with L-arginine administration and
antagonism with N-nitro-L-arginine; and (2) chronic endothelin receptor blockade 
with the non-peptide endothelin receptor antagonist, bosentan, in two animal
models of cyclosporin-induced hypertension. Cyclosporin, administered daily to
female Wistar rats (10 mg/kg per day for 30 days, s.c.) and to marmosets (30
mg/kg per day for 20 days, p.o.) significantly elevated tail cuff systolic blood 
pressure (BP). L-arginine (250 mg/kg, in saline, i.p.), N-nitro-L-arginine (25
mg/kg, in saline, i.p.), bosentan (100 mg/kg, in arabic gum, p.o.) or vehicle
were given daily to the rats during the last week of cyclosporin treatment.
Marmosets received L-arginine (300 mg/kg, in water, p.o.), bosentan (100
mg/kg/day in arabic gum, p.o.) or vehicle for the last 7 days of cyclosporin
treatment. L-arginine, but not saline alone significantly lowered BP in the
cyclosporin-hypertensive rats from 129 +/- 2 mm Hg to 122 +/- 3 mm Hg (P < 0.05),
and cyclosporin-hypertensive marmosets from 156 +/- 2 mm Hg to 139 +/- 4 mm Hg (P
< 0.01). NOLA significantly increased systolic BP in cyclosporin-treated (from
133 +/- 2 mm Hg at week 3 to 142 +/- 3 mm Hg, P < 0.05) and control rats (from
124.0 +/- 2 mm Hg to 134 +/- 2 mm Hg, P < 0.05) indicating that nitric oxide
synthesis in cyclosporin-hypertensive rats could be further antagonised.
Bosentan, but not arabic gum alone, also lowered BP in the
cyclosporin-hypertensive rats from 134 +/- 1 mm Hg to 122 +/- 3 mm Hg (P < 0.01),
and cyclosporin-hypertensive marmosets from 156 +/- 2 mm Hg to 139 +/- 4 mm Hg (P
< 0.01). These results support the roles of both increased endothelin synthesis
and decreased nitric oxide activity in the pathogenesis of cyclosporin A-induced 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1000709 
PMID: 9883706  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

