

3497. J Reprod Fertil. 1998 Sep;114(1):163-8.

Ubiquitin and apoptosis in the corpus luteum of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Young FM(1), Illingworth PJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The polypeptide ubiquitin covalently binds to cytoplasmic proteins and marks them
for proteolytic degradation. Ubiquitin is upregulated during apoptosis in some
systems. Apoptosis increases during luteolysis but it is not known whether
ubiquitin is expressed in regressing corpora lutea. Marmoset ovaries were removed
on day 10 of the luteal phase from animals that had received either no treatment,
treatment with the PGF2 alpha analogue cloprostenol 24 h earlier, or treatment
with the GnRH antagonist antarelix for either 24 or 48 h before ovary collection.
Ubiquitin was localized on ovarian sections by immunocytochemistry, and
oligonucleosome formation characteristic of apoptosis was examined in isolated
corpora lutea by electrophoresis of extracted [32P]DNA. Oligonucleosome formation
was low in midluteal corpora lutea on day 10 but increased after induced luteal
regression with PGF2 alpha and GnRH antagonist. Nuclear ubiquitin
immunoreactivity was found in 1.66 +/- 0.66 steroidogenic cells and cytoplasmic
staining was found in 0.4 +/- 0.3 steroidogenic cells (per x 40 field of view) in
midluteal phase corpora lutea on day 10. Luteolytic induction with PGF2 alpha
significantly increased the number of cells exhibiting cytoplasmic
immunoreactivity to 12.24 +/- 1.6 (P < 0.05). Ubiquitin immunoreactivity was not 
observed after GnRH-induced luteal regression. Apoptotic oligonucleosome
formation was found after induced luteal regression with both PGF2 alpha and GnRH
antagonist, but ubiquitin upregulation only occurred after PGF2 alpha-induced
regression. These results indicate that ubiquitin expression is not specific for 
luteolysis and is not an indicator of luteal apoptosis, but that the polypeptide 
does play a role in luteal cellular responses to PGF2 alpha.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1140163 
PMID: 9875169  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

