

3498. J Neurosci Methods. 1998 Dec 1;85(2):201-9.

Pharmacological characterisation of dopamine overflow in the striatum of the
normal and MPTP-treated common marmoset, studied in vivo using fast cyclic
voltammetry, nomifensine and sulpiride.

Earl CD(1), Sautter J, Xie J, Kruk ZL, Kupsch A, Oertel WH.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology, University of Munich, Germany.

The in vivo measurement of electrically-evoked dopamine overflow was measured for
the first time in the striatum of control and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets using fast 
cyclic voltammetry at untreated carbon-fibre microelectrodes, (7 microm, o.d.).
The identity of dopamine was confirmed using electrochemical, pharmacological and
histological criteria and complied with rat data from earlier studies. Dopamine
overflow depended on the intensity, number of pulses, and frequency of the
applied stimuli. Maximum dopamine overflow occurred using 1.0-2.0 mA, 200 micros 
pulse width, 150-200 pulses at 80-120 Hz stimulation of the medial forebrain
bundle. Evoked dopamine overflow in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated marmosets showed a similar
electrochemical and pharmacological profile compared to healthy controls, albeit 
the concentration detected was significantly reduced. The catecholamine uptake
blocker, nomifensine, significantly increased the dopamine signal in control
marmosets. However, in contrast, nomifensine had no significant effect on evoked 
dopamine overflow in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated
marmosets. Apart from demonstrating that fast cyclic voltammetry with electrical 
stimulation can be reliably used to monitor dopamine overflow within the primate 
brain, our results describe for the first time the technical prerequisites for
the fast cyclic voltammetric technique in the non-human primate brain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0270(98)00134-4 
PMID: 9874156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

