

350. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2020 May 7;525(3):595-599. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.02.121. Epub 2020 Feb 27.

Kainic acid-induced seizures in the common marmoset.

Ishikawa A(1), Mizuno Y(1), Sakai K(1), Maki T(1), Tanaka R(1), Oda Y(1), Niimi
K(2), Takahashi E(3).

Author information: 
(1)Sleep Science Laboratories, HAMRI Co. Ltd, Ibaraki, 306-0128, Japan.
(2)Research Resources Division, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Saitama,
351-0198, Japan. Electronic address: kimie.niimi@riken.jp.
(3)Research Resources Division, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Saitama,
351-0198, Japan. Electronic address: eiki.takahashi@riken.jp.

Treatment of epilepsy remains difficult because patients suffer from
pharmacoresistant forms of the disease and drug side-effects. Thus, there is an
urgent need to identify not only new antiepileptic drug candidates but also novel
epileptic animal models. Here, we characterize seizures induced with kainic acid 
(KA) in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Adult marmosets received 0.1,
1, or 10 mg/kg of KA subcutaneously. All animals exhibited early convulsive
behavior (seizure scores of I and II on the Racine scale). Seizure scores were
low at lower KA doses, but the highest dose of KA tested triggered generalized
seizures (scores IV and V on the Racine scale). We next performed preliminary
evaluation of the efficacy of the antiepileptic drug diazepam. This drug at
1 mg/kg (delivered subcutaneously) prevented 10 mg/kg KA-induced stage V
seizures. KA administration to marmosets reliably triggers generalized seizures; 
therefore, the marmoset is a useful animal model in which to analyze the seizures
of a nonhuman primate brain and to develop new treatments for epilepsy.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.02.121 
PMID: 32115153  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

