

3504. Scand J Rheumatol. 1998;27(6):446-53.

In vitro synthesis and characterization of a cartilaginous meniscus grown from
isolated temporomandibular chondroprogenitor cells.

Girdler NM(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Newcastle Dental School & Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Internal derangement of the temporomandibularjoint can lead to perforation of the
intra-articular meniscus and osteoarthritic degeneration. Current methods of
repairing damaged menisci are limited by lack of biological compatibility of
graft materials. This project aimed to synthesise and characterise a primate
cartilaginous meniscus in vitro from harvested mandibular chondroprogenitor
cells. Isolated cells from the mandibular cartilage of 12 young adult marmosets, 
aged 9-12 months, were grown in monolayer culture. After 21 days confluent
colonies were resuspended and dispersed into a unpolymerised solution of type I
collagen and fibrinogen. The resultant cell suspension was infiltrated into a
resorbable type I collagen sponge carrier and allowed to polymerise. Aliquots of 
the cell-infiltrated sponge were maintained in organ culture for a further 14
days. Cultures were characterised using histochemical and immunocytochemical
localisation of collagen and proteoglycan species. Two-thirds of cells in
confluent 21-day monolayers expressed cartilage-specific type II collagen and
chondroitin-4-sulphate. After 35 days organ cultures had formed a viable,
organised, three-dimensional tissue mass consisting of mature chondrocytic cells 
interspersed in a dense cartilaginous matrix. The cartilaginous tissue generated 
in vitro may have potential application in the repair or replacement of damaged
menisci in vivo.

DOI: 10.1080/030097498442280 
PMID: 9855216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

