

3511. Am J Primatol. 1998;46(4):265-84.

Behavioral discrimination between circumgenital odor from peri-ovulatory dominant
and anovulatory female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Smith TE(1), Abbott DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska, Omaha, USA.
Tessa_Smith@wda.disney.com

Social peer groups of callitrichid monkeys [marmosets and tamarins] exhibit
intrasexual dominance hierarchies in captivity. This laboratory study employed
two-choice behavioral discrimination bioassys to test the hypothesis that scent
from female common marmosets contains chemical cues that permit discrimination
between dominant females in the periovulatory versus luteal phase of the ovarian 
cycle and females holding dominant versus subordinate status. When scent from
only dominant females was presented, marmosets directed significantly greater
amounts of investigatory behavior toward peri-ovulatory scent versus scent
collected during the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle. Animals of both sexes
demonstrated significant discriminatory behavior between scent deposited by
dominant versus subordinate females, but only when the dominant female was in the
peri-ovulatory phase of the ovarian cycle. Test animals directed equal amounts of
investigative behavior toward scent from luteal-phase dominant females and
subordinate females. Female test subjects deposited significantly more scent
marks over presented scents than did male subjects, particularly when the scent
had been donated by a peri-ovulatory female. Chemical odors specific to the
periovulatory and luteal phases of the ovarian cycle may play a role in mediating
behavioral interactions among marmosets.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)46:4<265::AID-AJP1>3.0.CO;2-D 
PMID: 9839902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

