

3512. Biol Reprod. 1998 Dec;59(6):1491-7.

Parthenogenetic activation of marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) oocytes and the
development of marmoset parthenogenones in vitro and in vivo.

Marshall VS(1), Wilton LJ, Moore HD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Regent's Park, London, NW1 4RY, United Kingdom.
marshall@primate.wisc.edu

Mammalian oocytes can be induced to resume meiosis without fertilization, and the
resulting parthenogenetic embryos carry only maternal chromosomes. Human oocytes 
can be activated by many chemical and physical stimuli, but postimplantation
studies of human parthenogenetic embryos are not ethically acceptable. The common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) is a good model for studying primate
parthenogenetic development postimplantation, since follicular aspiration, embryo
transfer, and early postimplantation development of biparental embryos have
already been described. Marmoset oocytes were either subjected to two series of
six electrical pulses (DC; 2 kV/cm and 70 microsec) or were incubated in 7%
ethanol in PBS. Ninety-two percent (68 of 74) and 20% (8 of 40) of marmoset
oocytes were activated by electrical stimulus or ethanol, respectively.
Parthenogenetic (n = 3) or in vitro-fertilized (n = 2) embryos were transferred
at the 4-cell stage to synchronized recipient female marmosets (n = 5).
Progesterone, chorionic gonadotropin, and inhibin in the peripheral plasma of
recipient animals were measured. After 33 days of gestation, recipient animals
were perfused and the uteri were collected. The 2 females that had received
biparental embryos and 2 of the 3 females that had received parthenogenetic
embryos displayed biochemical and histological evidence of implantation. This is 
the first report that a primate embryo comprising only parthenogenetic cells is
capable of implantation. This highlights the need to scrutinize levels of
parthenogenesis associated with human assisted reproductive technologies.
Marmoset parthenogenones also provide a unique model for elucidating the roles of
parental genomes in primate development.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod59.6.1491 
PMID: 9828197  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

