

3513. J Anat. 1998 Aug;193 ( Pt 2):185-93.

Interspecies variations in oral epithelial cytokeratin expression.

Barrett AW(1), Selvarajah S, Franey S, Wills KA, Berkovitz BK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral Pathology, Eastman Dental Institute for Oral Healthcare
Sciences, London, UK. A.Barrett@eastman.ucl.ac.uk

The aim of this study was to determine the degree to which the epidermis and oral
epithelium of species other than man express cytokeratin (CK) intermediate
filaments, which are markers of epithelial differentiation. Fixed, wax-embedded
samples of skin, buccal mucosa and gingiva from rhesus monkey, marmoset, cow,
sheep, pig, ferret, hamster, axolotl and trout were tested for CK expression
using a panel of antihuman CK antibodies and an immunoperoxidase procedure. Human
skin and oral mucosa were also stained to act as positive control. The results
showed that antihuman CK antibodies stained animal tissues, but the patterns of
staining were not always identical to the established human CK profile. Of
particular interest was the expression of CK18, typically only detected in
'simple' epithelium in man, in bovine, ferret and hamster stratified epithelium
from different sites. However, there was evidence of variable anti-CK antibody
cross-reactivity, both as a result of intrinsic variations in CK polypeptide
structure and as artifacts of fixation. We conclude that some CK are conserved
between species, but that biological variables, for example local functional
requirements, and technical factors affect the results. These considerations need
to be borne in mind in animal studies of epithelial differentiation employing CK 
immunohistochemistry. Biochemical characterisation is ultimately necessary to
determine specific differences between human and animal CK.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.1998.19320185.x 
PMCID: PMC1467838
PMID: 9827634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

