

3532. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 1998 Jul 25;142(1-2):165-74.

The unique exon 10 of the human luteinizing hormone receptor is necessary for
expression of the receptor protein at the plasma membrane in the human
luteinizing hormone receptor, but deleterious when inserted into the human
follicle-stimulating hormone receptor.

Zhang FP(1), Kero J, Huhtaniemi I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Turku, Finland.

The LH receptor (LHR) is a member of the family of G protein-coupled seven-times 
plasma membrane transversing receptors. Its gene consists of 11 exons, the last
one encoding the transmembrane and intracellular domains of the receptor. The
FSHR, and its gene, resemble structurally those of the LHR, with the exception
that the sequences corresponding to exon 10 in LHR are missing in FSHR, which is 
thus encoded by a total of ten exons. Our recent studies on the marmoset monkey
testis LHR cDNA indicated that an 81 bp nucleotide sequence, encoding the
complete exon 10 of the LHR gene in other mammalian species, is absent in this
species without affecting the LHR function. To study further the role of the exon
10 encoded sequences of the LHR in the gonadotropin receptor function, a deletion
of exon 10 from the human LHR (hLHdeltaexon10R), and a chimeric hFSHR with exon
10 from hLHR inserted (hFSHLHexon10R), were constructed in expression vectors.
The results presented here demonstrate that 293 cells transfected with the
hLHdeltaexon10R display a decrease in the proportion of the receptor binding at
the cell surface, compared with cells transfected with wild-type hLHR. However,
the cells expressing hLHdeltaexon10R showed similar high affinity binding of
[125I]iodo-hCG as those transfected with wild-type hLHR, in either intact cells
or their detergent extracts. In addition, cells expressing the hLHdeltaexon10R
and wild-type hLHR displayed similar dose-response of cAMP production to hCG
stimulation. Cells transfected with chimeric hFSHLHexon10R showed barely
detectable [125I]iodo-FSH binding in intact cells compared with those transfected
with wild-type hFSHR. The FSH binding detected in cellular detergent extracts
displayed 10-fold lower binding activity than wild-type receptors, in spite of
similar level of immunoreactive FSHR protein expression in the transfected cells.
The hFSHLHexon10R had a modest 5-fold lower binding affinity for FSH as compared 
with wild-type hFSHR. In conclusion, the present study indicates that the
sequences encoding exon 10 of the hLHR are essential for the LHR expression at
the plasma membrane, but deleterious for function if inserted into the hFSHR.

DOI: 10.1016/s0303-7207(98)00108-7 
PMID: 9783912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

