

3533. Am J Pathol. 1998 Oct;153(4):1229-37.

Human interleukin-10 expression in T/natural killer-cell lymphomas: association
with anaplastic large cell lymphomas and nasal natural killer-cell lymphomas.

Boulland ML(1), Meignin V, Leroy-Viard K, Copie-Bergman C, Brière J, Touitou R,
Kanavaros P, Gaulard P.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Pathologie, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France.

Several cytokines have been implicated in the pathogenesis of human lymphomas.
Among them, interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a pleiotropic cytokine with various
biological effects on B and T lymphocytes. Its expression has been essentially
studied in B-cell lymphomas, where it appears to act as an autocrine growth
factor. BCRF1 (also called viral IL-10), an open reading frame of Epstein-Barr
virus, exhibits extensive sequence and functional homologies with human IL-10.
Some entities belonging to T- or natural killer (NK)-cell lymphomas are
characterized by a frequent association with Epstein-Barr virus. We analyzed 39
cases of peripheral T-cell lymphoma, as well as 7 cases of nasal NK-cell
lymphoma, for the presence of IL-10 transcripts by in situ hybridization, to see 
whether this cytokine was expressed in these tumors and whether its expression
could be related to their histological subtype and to the presence of
Epstein-Barr virus. Because the riboprobe used for in situ hybridization
recognizes both human and viral IL-10, 12 cases were also analyzed by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction to verify the human or viral origin of
IL-10. It was found that 8 of 11 (73%) anaplastic large cell lymphomas (ALCLs), 2
of 11 (18%) pleomorphic T-cell lymphomas, and 3 of 7 (43%) nasal NK-cell
lymphomas exhibited a large number of IL-10-expressing cells, whereas only rare
scattered cells were detected in angioimmunoblastic (11 of 11) and in gammadelta 
T-cell lymphomas (6 of 6). In ALCLs, the pattern of IL-10 mRNA-expressing cells
showed an overlapping with the CD30 staining and preferential localization in
sinusal and perifollicular areas, thereby suggesting that IL-10-expressing cells 
were tumor cells. Furthermore, IL-10 transcripts were detected in the SU-DHL-1
anaplastic lymphoma cell line. No correlation with Epstein-Barr virus profile was
found, because all cases of ALCL were negative for EBER 1 and 2 genes by in situ 
hybridization. We confirmed the presence of human IL-10 mRNA by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction in ALCLs as well as in NK-cell lymphomas,
whereas viral IL-10 was not detected. Thus, human and not viral IL-10 is
frequently expressed by tumor cells in ALCLs and nasal NK-cell lymphomas. In view
of its function in the proliferation and the differentiation of cytotoxic T and
NK cells, and its immunosuppressive properties, IL-10 may have a role in the
pathogenesis of these lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)65667-2 
PMCID: PMC1853048
PMID: 9777954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

