

3535. Anim Reprod Sci. 1998 Aug 21;52(2):165-74.

Artificial insemination in Callithrix jacchus using fresh or cryopreserved sperm.

Morrell JM(1), Nubbemeyer R, Heistermann M, Rosenbusch J, Küderling I, Holt W,
Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, Göttingen.

Assisted reproductive techniques are needed urgently to facilitate the captive
breeding of many New World primate species which are endangered in the wild and
to assist the effective genetic management of small colonies. A protocol was
devised for artificial insemination in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
using ejaculated sperm obtained by vaginal washing after copulation. A double
insemination protocol was employed, with the first insemination taking place the 
day before ovulation was expected to occur and the second 48 h later. All six
females inseminated with fresh ejaculated sperm became pregnant, delivering a
total of 16 offspring at term. The gestation lengths and litter sizes were not
statistically different from those observed in pregnancies following natural
mating. The insemination protocol was adapted for use with cryopreserved
ejaculated sperm by including an additional insemination on the day of expected
ovulation, to take into account differences in the capacitation time of
frozen-thawed sperm compared to fresh sperm. Three out of six females inseminated
according to this triple insemination schedule, conceived, although one female
subsequently resorbed twin foetuses approximately 100 days later. The remaining
two pregnant females delivered four babies at term, one singleton and one set of 
triplets. In the final group, six females were inseminated with low doses of
cryopreserved epididymal sperm using the same triple insemination protocol used
for frozen-thawed ejaculated sperm. One female conceived, delivering triplets.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-4320(97)00092-4 
PMID: 9776489  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

