

3536. J Neurophysiol. 1998 Oct;80(4):2063-76.

Segregation of receptive field properties in the lateral geniculate nucleus of a 
New-World monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

White AJ(1), Wilder HD, Goodchild AK, Sefton AJ, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

The lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) in humans and Old-World monkeys is dominated
by the representation of the fovea in the parvocellular (PC) layers, and most PC 
cells in the foveal representation have red-green cone opponent receptive field
properties. It is not known whether these features are both unique to
trichromatic primates. Here we measured receptive field properties and the
visuotopic organization of cells in the LGN of a New-World monkey, the marmoset
Callithrix jacchus. The marmoset displays a polymorphism of cone opsins in the
medium-long wavelength (ML) range, which allows the LGN of dichromatic
("red-green color blind") and trichromatic individuals to be compared.
Furthermore, the koniocellular-interlaminar layers are segregated from the main
PC layers in marmoset, allowing the functional role of this subdivision of the
LGN to be assessed. We show that the representation of the visual field in the
LGN is quantitatively similar in dichromatic and trichromatic marmosets and is
similar to that reported for macaque; the vast majority of LGN volume is devoted 
to the central visual field. ON- and OFF-type responses are partially segregated 
in the PC layers so that responses are more commonly encountered near the
external border of each layer. The red-green (ML) opponent cells in trichromatic 
animals were all located in the PC layers, and their receptive fields were within
16 degrees of the fovea. The koniocellular zone between the PC and magnocellular 
layers contained cells that receive excitatory input from short wavelength
sensitive cones ("blue- cells") as well as other nonopponent cells. These results
suggest that the basic organization of the LGN is common to dichromatic and
trichromatic primates and provide further evidence that ML and SWS opponent
signals are carried in distinct subdivisions of the retinogeniculocortical
pathway.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.1998.80.4.2063 
PMID: 9772261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

