

3537. J Virol. 1998 Nov;72(11):8690-6.

Measles virus attenuation associated with transcriptional impediment and a few
amino acid changes in the polymerase and accessory proteins.

Takeda M(1), Kato A, Kobune F, Sakata H, Li Y, Shioda T, Sakai Y, Asakawa M,
Nagai Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Viral Infection, Institute of Medical Science, University of
Tokyo, Shirokanedai 4-6-1, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8639, USA.

Measles virus (MV) isolated in B95a cells, a marmoset B-cell line, retains full
pathogenicity for cynomolgus monkeys, while its derivative obtained by adaptation
to the growth in Vero cells, a monkey kidney cell line, loses the pathogenic
potential (F. Kobune, H. Sakata, and A. Sugiura, J. Virol. 64:700-705, 1990).
Here, we show with a pair of strains, a fresh isolate (9301B) in B95a cells and
its Vero cell-adapted form (9301V), that the in vivo attenuation parallels the
decrease of replication and syncytium-inducing capabilities in the original B95a 
cells and that these in vitro phenotypes are attributable to impediment of
transcription, which is already obvious at the level of primary transcription
catalyzed by the virion-associated RNA polymerase. On the other hand, cell fusion
assays detected no functional difference between the glycoproteins of the two
viruses. Essentially the same transcriptional impediment with reduced syncytium
induction following Vero cell adaptation was found with two other pairs of
strains that had been similarly prepared. Nucleotide sequence comparison between 
the 9301B and 9301V viruses revealed that a few (at most five) amino acid
changes, which sporadically took place in the polymerase (L and P proteins)
and/or accessory V and C proteins, were responsible for the in vitro and in vivo 
attenuation through adaptation to growth in Vero cells.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.11.8690-8696.1998 
PMCID: PMC110282
PMID: 9765410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

