

3540. Cardiovasc Res. 1998 Jul;39(1):194-215.

Characterisation, utilisation and clinical relevance of isolated perfused heart
models of ischaemia-induced ventricular fibrillation.

Curtis MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, Vascular Biology Research Centre, King's
College, London, UK. novfib@kcl.ac.uk

The isolated perfused heart has been used increasingly during the last decade as 
a model for identifying actions of drugs on ventricular fibrillation (VF) induced
by myocardial ischaemia. In addition, it has been used to explore the mechanisms 
responsible for the initiation and maintenance of VF, the concept of endogenous
myocardial protection and the phenomenon of preconditioning. This article is a
review of the available data (effects of drugs, sources of variation, comparison 
with other models and man, etc.) and an attempt to evaluate the possible clinical
relevance. For several reasons, it is not possible to make a precise judgement on
the absolute value of the model in terms of its ability to accurately predict the
effectiveness of drugs in the prevention of sudden cardiac death, the main reason
being the lack of a positive control, i.e. a drug with proven effectiveness
against sudden cardiac death caused by VF in man. Nevertheless, the means by
which one may reliably and reproducibly generate ischaemia-induced VF in
different isolated heart preparations, and the factors (such as species, heart
rate, perfusion constituents and involved zone size) that determine the incidence
of VF are now well documented. Careful selection of species and experimental
conditions permits the isolated heart of smaller inexpensive animals to function 
as a first line model for detecting anti-VF activity of probable relevance to
phase 1 arrhythmogenesis (i.e., arrhythmogenesis during the first 30 min of
ischaemia). In view of the absence of a clinical template from which to evaluate 
how well it predicts drug effectiveness in man, this model's clinical relevance, 
like that of all other preparations and models, can yet be neither accepted nor
dismissed. Recent publication patterns suggest an increasing use of the model.
Therefore, recommendations are made to facilitate its effective use.

DOI: 10.1016/s0008-6363(98)00083-2 
PMID: 9764200  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

