

355. Anim Cogn. 2020 May;23(3):581-594. doi: 10.1007/s10071-020-01363-6. Epub 2020 Feb
27.

Marmoset prosociality is intentional.

Burkart JM(1), van Schaik CP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057, Zürich, Switzerland. judith.burkart@aim.uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057, Zürich, Switzerland.

Marmoset monkeys show high levels of proactive prosociality, a trait shared with 
humans, presumably because both species rely on allomaternal care. However, it is
not clear whether the proximate regulation of this convergent trait is also
similar, in particular with regard to intentionality, which is a defining
characteristic of prosocial behavior in the human literature. The aim of this
paper was to investigate whether marmoset monkeys' prosociality fulfils the
criteria of intentionality developed in primate communication research. The
results show that marmoset prosocial behavior (i) has some degree of flexibility,
since individuals can use multiple means to reach their goal and adjust them to
specific conditions, (ii) depends on the presence of an audience, i.e. potential 
recipients (social use), and (iii) is goal-directed, because (a) it continues
exactly until the putative goal is reached, and (b) individuals check back and
look at/for their partner when their prosocial actions do not achieve the
putative goal (i.e. if their actions don't lead to the expected outcome, this
elicits distinct reactions in the actor). These results suggest that marmoset
prosociality is under some degree of voluntary, intentional control. They are in 
line with other findings that marmosets perceive each other as intentional
agents, and only learn socially from actions that are perceived as intentional.
The most parsimonious conclusion is, therefore, that prosocial behavior is
fundamentally under voluntary control in marmosets, just as it is in humans, even
though our more sophisticated cognitive abilities allow for a far more complex
integration of prosociality into a broader variety of contexts and of behavioral 
goals.

DOI: 10.1007/s10071-020-01363-6 
PMCID: PMC7181450
PMID: 32107657  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

