

3550. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1998 Sep 8;1387(1-2):143-52.

Molecular cloning in the marmoset shows that semenogelin is not the precursor of 
the TRH-like peptide pGlu-Glu-Pro amide.

Huber AE(1), Fraser H, del Rio-Garcia J, Kreil G, Smyth DG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Billrothstrasse 11, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria.

Two peptides with similar structures to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH),
pGlu-Glu-Pro amide and pGlu-Phe-Pro amide, have been identified in human seminal 
fluid and it has been shown that one of these peptides, pGlu-Glu-Pro amide, has
the ability to increase the capacitation of sperm cells, consistent with a role
in fertility. In order to select a species in which there is a high degree of
expression of the genes that code for 'TRH-like' peptides, we have determined the
levels of these peptides in the prostate, pancreas and thyroid of a range of
species including rat, rabbit, ox, marmoset, macaque and man. The peptides were
extracted from the tissues and purified before determination by RIA with TRH
antibody. In addition, trypsin digestion and TRH RIA was used to investigate the 
presence of N-extended forms. The highest concentrations of TRH-immunoreactive
peptides were found in the tissues of the marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.
Ion-exchange chromatography demonstrated that marmoset thyroid contained
principally authentic TRH, the pancreas contained both TRH and TRH-like peptides 
while the prostate contained TRH-like peptides alone. Further purification by
HPLC showed that the main TRH-immunoreactive peptide in marmoset prostate was
pGlu-Glu-Pro amide and a second component was identified as pGlu-Phe-Pro amide.
The results indicate that the biosynthesis of these peptides could be studied to 
advantage in the marmoset. The biosynthetic precursors of the TRH-like peptides
have not been identified. To examine whether pGlu-Glu-Pro amide might originate
from semenogelin, we determined the sequence of semenogelin in the marmoset. It
exhibited a high degree of homology with human semenogelin-I, but in place of the
Lys-Gln-Glu-Pro sequence that might give rise to pGlu-Glu-Pro amide, marmoset
semenogelin possessed the sequence Ser-Gln-Asp-Gln which cannot serve as a
precursor for a TRH-like peptide. Further evidence was obtained by Northern blot 
analysis of a range of marmoset tissues. The results showed that semenogelin is
not present in marmoset prostate. It is concluded that pGlu-Glu-Pro amide
originates from a precursor distinct from semenogelin, both in marmoset and in
man.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4838(98)00116-2 
PMID: 9748547  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

