

3551. Brain Res. 1998 Sep 14;805(1-2):213-9.

Is there a geniculohypothalamic tract in primates? A comparative
immunohistochemical study in the circadian system of strepsirhine and haplorhine 
species.

Chevassus-au-Louis N(1), Cooper HM.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U 371, Cerveau et Vision, 69 675 Bron, France.
chevassus@cochin.inserm.fr

In rodents, the circadian rhythm generated by the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic
nucleus (SCN) is modulated by two types of phenomena: photic phase-shifts,
mediated by the retinohypothalamic pathway and non-photic phase-shifts mediated
by the projection of the intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) to the SCN which contains 
the neuropeptide Y (NPY). In primates, the retinohypothalamic pathway has been
well-demonstrated but very little is known about the geniculohypothalamic tract. 
This prompted us to study NPY immunoreactivity in both the SCN and the IGL in
species representative of the three main primate lineages: prosimians
(Microcebus), New World monkeys (Callithrix) and Old World monkeys (Macacca). In 
species studied, we found a region in the pregeniculate nucleus containing both
NPY immunopositive cells and substance P immunopositive fibres that we identified
as the IGL. During evolution, this structure has moved from a ventral to a
dorsomedial position relative to the adjacent dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. 
By contrast, NPY-IP fibres in the SCN are dense in prosimians, but are sparse or 
absent in other primate species. We suggest that either the geniculohypothalamic 
projection is absent in higher primates as is the case in humans, or is absent in
diurnal mammals, or contains a different peptide, or that NPY immunoreactivity
varies according to other parameters.

Copyright 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(98)00741-0 
PMID: 9733968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

