

3557. Am J Pathol. 1998 Aug;153(2):649-63.

Histopathological characterization of magnetic resonance imaging-detectable brain
white matter lesions in a primate model of multiple sclerosis: a correlative
study in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis model in common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Hart BA(1), Bauer J, Muller HJ, Melchers B, Nicolay K, Brok H, Bontrop RE,
Lassmann H, Massacesi L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands. hart@bprc.nl

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the common marmoset, a nonhuman
primate species (Callithrix jacchus), is a new model for multiple sclerosis.
Given the close immunological relationship between marmosets and humans, it is an
attractive model for investigating immunopathological pathways relevant to
multiple sclerosis and to evaluate new treatments for the disease. Unlike in the 
originally documented model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis induced
without the use of Bordetella pertussis led to a chronic disease of moderate
severity. The clinical course of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in the
present model was mainly chronic and progressive, but periods of incomplete
remission did occur. At the chronic stage of the disease, actively demyelinating 
lesions were found together with inactive demyelinated and remyelinated (shadow) 
plaques. Before immunization and during clinically active experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis, T1- and T2-weighted magnetic resonance brain images were
obtained. Correlation of the data from the magnetic resonance images and the
neuropathology analysis revealed that the hyperintense regions in T2-weighted
images represented both active and inactive remyelinating lesions. Quantification
showed that the number of lesions in T2-weighted magnetic resonance images
equalled those found by pathological examination, and thus T2-weighted magnetic
resonance imaging can be used to discern the total lesion load. Extravasation of 
gadolinium-diethylenetriamine-penta-acetic acid (triple dose) was found only in
lesions, which by histopathology were shown to be engaged in the process of
active demyelination.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9440(10)65606-4 
PMCID: PMC1852983
PMID: 9708823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

