

3563. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 1998 Jun;9(3):408-13.

Phylogeny of neotropical monkeys: the interplay of morphological, molecular, and 
parasitological data.

Hugot JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mus√©um National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris, BioSystematics and Coevolution in
Parasitic Nematodes, ERS 156 du CNRS, 61, Rue Buffon, Paris Cedex 05, 75231,
France.

Separate independent hypotheses of the phylogenetic relationships among the
Platyrrhini monkeys have been produced in a recent past, either based upon
morphological or molecular data, but the results are generally conflicting and
the phylogeny of the group still is debated. The high host specificity observed
among primates and their oxyurid parasites allows to consider the result of a
morphologically based cladistic analysis of the pinworms of the Platyrrhini as an
estimate of the phylogeny of these monkeys. Using the matrix representation
method this "parasite-tree" is combined, using parsimony analysis, with several
conflicting molecular or morphological hypothesis of the phylogeny of the host
group. The results are discussed with respect to previously published
classification, or composite computations of the phylogeny, of the Neotropical
monkeys. Comparison of different hypothesis makes apparent several stable groups:
(i) the Callithrichidae + Saimiri, (ii) the Atelidae/Alouattidae, (iii) the
Pitheciidae, and (iv) the Alouattidae/Atelidae + Pitheciidae. In addition, the
parasite and the molecular trees support close relationships between Callimico
and Callithrix/Cebuella. The study also makes apparent that the parasite tree
generally portrays the results of other studies, both when they are congruous and
when they are conflicting. This is interpreted to be additional evidence for
close coevolution between the Platyrrhini and their specific pinworms. Because,
whatever the combination of data being considered no consensus can be found on
the exact position of Aotus and Callicebus, and because it is likely that the
earliest radiation of the Platyrrhini could be comparable to an evolutionary
burst, which renders identification of homologous characters difficult, it is
suggested that, possibly, not enough discriminating tracks of the evolutionary
paths have been conserved to allow to resolve this uncertainty in the future.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpev.1998.0497 
PMID: 9667989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

