

3567. J Virol. 1998 Aug;72(8):6770-6.

A role for herpesvirus saimiri orf14 in transformation and persistent infection.

Duboise M(1), Guo J, Czajak S, Lee H, Veazey R, Desrosiers RC, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

The product of open reading frame 14 (orf14) of herpesvirus saimiri (HVS)
exhibits significant homology with mouse mammary tumor virus superantigen. orf14 
encodes a 50-kDa secreted glycoprotein, as shown previously (Z. Yao, E.
Maraskovsky, M. K. Spriggs, J. I. Cohen, R. J. Armitage, and M. R. Alderson, J.
Immunol. 156:3260-3266, 1996). orf14 expressed from recombinant baculovirus
powerfully induces proliferation of CD4-positive cells originating from several
different species. To study the role of orf14 in transformation, a mutant form of
HVS (HVS Deltaorf14) was constructed with a deletion in the orf14 gene. The
transforming potential of HVS Deltaorf14 was tested in cell culture and in common
marmosets. Parental HVS subgroup C strain 488 immortalized common marmoset T
lymphocytes in vitro to interleukin-2-independent growth, while the HVS
Deltaorf14 mutant did not produce such a growth transformation. In addition, HVS 
Deltaorf14 was nononcogenic in common marmosets. In contrast to other
nononcogenic HVS mutant viruses which were repeatedly isolated from peripheral
blood mononuclear cells of infected marmosets for more than 5 months, HVS
Deltaorf14 did not persist at a high level in vivo. These results demonstrate
that orf14 of HVS is not required for replication but is required for
transformation and for high-level persistence in vivo.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.8.6770-6776.1998 
PMCID: PMC109885
PMID: 9658125  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

