

3568. J Neuroimmunol. 1998 Jun 1;86(1):30-45.

Expression of accessory molecules and cytokines in acute EAE in marmoset monkeys 
(Callithrix jacchus).

Laman JD(1), van Meurs M, Schellekens MM, de Boer M, Melchers B, Massacesi L,
Lassmann H, Claassen E, Hart BA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunological and Infectious Diseases, TNO Prevention and Health, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. jd.laman@pg.tno.nl

Accessory molecules and cytokines are involved in the immunopathogenesis of
multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in
rodent models, and are potential targets for immunotherapy. Evaluation of such
experimental therapies requires appropriate animal models. Therefore, we analysed
the expression of selected accessory molecules and cytokines in the brain of
marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with acute EAE, a newly described non-human
primate model for MS. All animals experienced active disease clinically and
histopathologically with strong resemblance to MS. Perivascular infiltrates of
mononuclear cells showed abundant expression of CD40. CD40 was expressed on
macrophages, indicating that T cell priming and macrophage effector functions may
result from local CD40-CD40L interactions. CD40 ligand (CD40L) and B7-2 (CD86)
were also expressed, but to a lower extent, while B7-1 (CD80) expression was
limited. Both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines were produced
within individual lesions during active disease (IFN-alpha, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha,
IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10 and IL-12). This suggests that relative
levels rather than sequential expression of Th1- and Th2-type cytokines determine
disease activity. These findings demonstrate the value of EAE in marmoset monkeys
as a model to assess the role of accessory molecules and cytokines in multiple
sclerosis, and to evaluate targeted intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5728(98)00024-1 
PMID: 9655470  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

