

3569. Hum Reprod. 1998 May;13(5):1169-74.

Reactivity of human trophoblast monoclonal antibodies with marmoset monkey
trophoblast cultures.

Hawes CS(1), Petropoulos A, Lopata A, Kalionis B, Jones WR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Flinders University of South
Australia, Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park.

The aim of this study was to determine whether cultured trophoblast tissues,
derived from the trophectoderm of marmoset monkey blastocysts, contain homologues
of human trophoblast antigens. This is an essential prerequisite to determine
whether the marmoset may be a suitable model for preclinical testing of a human
antitrophoblast antigen for fertility regulation. Previously evaluated monoclonal
antibodies from the Flinders University laboratory, which reacted with human
trophoblast with a high degree of specificity, were tested for
immunohistochemical reactivity using an immunoperoxidase detection method on both
frozen and paraformaldehyde-fixed sections of the cultured marmoset monkey
trophoblast. All monoclonal antibodies raised against human placenta reacted
positively, when compared to controls, suggesting that human and marmoset
trophoblast cells share common epitopes. The specificity of the monoclonal
antibodies was investigated by determining whether there was cross-reactivity
with other marmoset monkey tissues, including adrenal, spleen, kidney, liver,
muscle, ovary and testis. The specificities of the monoclonal antibodies on these
marmoset tissues were similar to those previously found on the corresponding
human tissues. We have concluded that marmoset monkey trophoblast exhibits
homologues of human trophoblast antigens. The findings also suggest that marmoset
monkeys should be evaluated further as a primate model to test suitable target
antigens for antitrophoblast vaccines that may be useful contragestation agents
in humans.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/13.5.1169 
PMID: 9647541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

