

3571. Br J Pharmacol. 1998 May;124(2):409-15.

The profile of sabcomeline (SB-202026), a functionally selective M1 receptor
partial agonist, in the marmoset.

Harries MH(1), Samson NA, Cilia J, Hunter AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Research, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, New Frontiers
Science Park, Harlow, Essex.

1. Sabcomeline (SB-202026, 0.03 mg kg(-1), p.o.), a potent and functionally
selective M1 receptor partial agonist, caused a statistically significant
improvement in the performance of a visual object discrimination task by
marmosets. No such improvement was seen after RS86 (0.1 mg kg(-1), p.o.). 2.
Initial learning, which only required an association of object with reward and an
appropriate response to be made, was not significantly affected. Reversal
learning, which required both the extinction of the previously learned response
and the acquisition of a new response strategy, was significantly improved after 
administration of sabcomeline (0.03 mg kg(-1), p.o.). 3. Sabcomeline (0.03 and
0.1 mg kg(-1), p.o.) had no significant effect on mean blood pressure measured
for 2 h after administration in the conscious marmoset. 4. Sabcomeline (0.03 mg
kg(-1), p.o.) caused none of the overt effects such as emesis or behaviours often
seen after the administration of muscarinic agonists, e.g. face rubbing and
licking. 5. This is the first study to demonstrate cognitive enhancement by a
functionally selective M1 receptor partial agonist in a normal (i.e.
non-cognitively impaired) non-human primate and this effect was seen at a dose
which did not cause side effects. 6. Perseverative behaviour and deficient
acquisition of new information are seen in patients with Alzheimer's disease
(AD). Therefore the data suggest that sabcomeline might be of therapeutic benefit
in the treatment of AD.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjp.0701844 
PMCID: PMC1565397
PMID: 9641560  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

