

3573. J Mol Evol. 1998 Jun;46(6):697-702.

Molecular genetics of spectral tuning in New World monkey color vision.

Shyue SK(1), Boissinot S, Schneider H, Sampaio I, Schneider MP, Abee CR, Williams
L, Hewett-Emmett D, Sperling HG, Cowing JA, Dulai KS, Hunt DM, Li WH.

Author information: 
(1)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas, P.O. Box 
20334, Houston, TX 77225, USA.

Although most New World monkeys have only one X-linked photopigment locus, many
species have three polymorphic alleles at the locus. The three alleles in the
squirrel monkey and capuchin have spectral peaks near 562, 550, and 535 nm,
respectively, and the three alleles in the marmoset and tamarin have spectral
peaks near 562, 556, and 543 nm, respectively. To determine the amino acids
responsible for the spectral sensitivity differences among these pigment
variants, we sequenced all exons of the three alleles in each of these four
species. From the deduced amino acid sequences and the spectral peak information 
and from previous studies of the spectral tuning of X-linked pigments in humans
and New World monkeys, we estimated that the Ala --> Ser, Ile --> Phe, Gly -->
Ser, Phe --> Tyr, and Ala --> Tyr substitutions at residue positions 180, 229,
233, 277, and 285, respectively, cause spectral shifts of about 5, -2, -1, 8, and
15 nm. On the other hand, the substitutions His --> Tyr, Met --> Val or Leu, and 
Ala --> Tyr at positions 116, 275, and 276, respectively, have no discernible
spectral tuning effect, though residues 275 and 276 are inside the transmembrane 
domains. Many substitutions between Val and Ile or between Val and Ala have
occurred in the transmembrane domains among the New World monkey pigment variants
but apparently have no effect on spectral tuning. Our study suggests that, in
addition to amino acid changes involving a hydroxyl group, large changes in
residue size can also cause a spectral shift in a visual pigment.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00006350 
PMID: 9608052  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

