

3575. Nat Med. 1998 Jun;4(6):727-9.

Functional integration of striatal allografts in a primate model of Huntington's 
disease.

Kendall AL(1), Rayment FD, Torres EM, Baker HF, Ridley RM, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology and the MRC Cambridge Centre for Brain
Repair, University of Cambridge, UK. alk1001@cus.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Nat Med. 1998 Jun;4(6):669-70.

Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant, inherited disorder that results in
progressive degeneration of the basal ganglia (especially the neostriatal caudate
nucleus and putamen) and other forebrain structures and is associated with a
clinical profile of movement, cognitive and psychiatric impairments for which
there is at present no effective therapy. Neuropathological, neurochemical and
behavioral features of the disease can all be reproduced in experimental animals 
by local injection of excitotoxic or metabolic toxins into the neostriatum. All
these features of the disease can be alleviated, at least in rats, by
transplantation of embryonic striatal tissue into the degenerated striatum, which
was the basis for commencing the first clinical trials of striatal
transplantation in Huntington's patients. However, although rat striatal
xenografts may temporarily reduce apomorphine-induced dyskinesias in monkeys,
there has been no demonstration that allograft techniques that work well in rats 
translate effectively to the much larger differentiated striatum of primates.
Here we demonstrate good survival, differentiation and integration of striatal
allografts in the primate neostriatum, and recovery in a test of skilled motor
performance. Long-term graft survival in primates indicates probable success for 
clinical transplants in Huntington's disease; in addition, our data suggest that 
graft placement has a direct influence on the pattern and extent of functional
recovery.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0698-727 
PMID: 9623985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

