

3577. Biol Reprod. 1998 Jun;58(6):1451-7.

Insulin-like and fibroblast growth factors and their receptors are differentially
expressed in the oviducts of the common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus)
during the ovulatory cycle.

Gabler C(1), Plath-Gabler A, Einspanier A, Einspanier R.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology, Technical University MÃ¼nchen-Weihenstephan, Freising,
Germany.

It is suggested that growth factors support the process of maturation and
differentiation in the mammalian oviduct. Fibroblast growth factors (FGF) and
insulin-like growth factors (IGF) are possible influences on these processes. The
present study describes for the first time the expression of FGF-1 and -2 and
their receptors as well as IGF-1 and -2 and the corresponding IGF receptor type 1
in the oviduct of the New World monkey Callithrix jacchus. Because of the limited
RNA yields from oviducts, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction
(RT-PCR) was performed to estimate expression levels. Expression patterns were
found to be similar for all examined growth factors and receptors: the highest
mRNA contents were obtained at the late proliferative and early to midsecretory
phases, compared with lower levels during the early proliferative phase. Elevated
amounts of these RNAs were correlated with high serum estradiol but not with
progesterone concentrations. Each PCR product showed a high degree of homology (>
92%) to the known human sequences. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated greater
specific staining for FGF-1 and -2 and IGF-1 before ovulation on the luminal
epithelial surface of marmoset oviducts in comparison to the other cycle phases. 
Differences in staining intensity were not observed between the ampulla and
isthmus. In summary, the marmoset oviduct expresses all components of functional 
FGF and IGF systems, thus suggesting auto-/paracrine effects of these growth
factors within the primate oviduct, possibly under the control of estrogenic
hormones.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod58.6.1451 
PMID: 9623605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

