

3581. Toxicol Sci. 1998 Mar;42(1):49-56.

Subchronic toxicity of Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate in common marmosets: lack of
hepatic peroxisome proliferation, testicular atrophy, or pancreatic acinar cell
hyperplasia.

Kurata Y(1), Kidachi F, Yokoyama M, Toyota N, Tsuchitani M, Katoh M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., 14 Sunayama, Hasaki-machi,
Kashima-gun, Ibaraki-ken, 314-02, Japan.

To evaluate the toxicological effect, di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) was
administered orally at 100, 500, and 2500 mg/kg to four male and four female
marmosets in each group for 13 weeks. Its potentials of hepatic peroxisome
proliferation, testicular atrophy, and pancreatic acinar cell hyperplasia were
evaluated more closely. Clofibrate, which potently causes peroxisome
proliferation in rodents, was administered in like manner at 250 mg/kg as a
reference drug. DEHP induced significant suppression of weight gain in males at
2500 mg/kg. However, the increase in liver mass and hypertrophy of hepatocytes
were not detected in organ weight measurements or histopathological examination. 
The number of peroxisomes, volume density, peroxisome morphology, and peroxisomal
enzyme activities were not different from those in the control group, though the 
males treated with 500 and 2500 mg/kg DEHP showed 1.3- and 1.4-fold increases in 
mean peroxisome volume, respectively. In contrast, clofibrate induced 2.2 (in
male)- and 1.9-fold (in female) increases in hepatic cyanide-insensitive acyl CoA
oxidation system activity, 1. 2 (in male)- and 1.7-fold (in female) increases in 
hepatic carnitine-dependent acetyltransferase activity, and 1.8 (in male)- and
3.0-fold (in female) increases of carnitine-dependent palmitoyltransferase
activity. Cytochrome P-450 contents tended to increase in all males and females
administered 500 and 2500 mg/kg of DEHP and clofibrate associated with the
increase in hepatic microsomal protein content, suggesting a relationship with
the treatment. The atrophic change in the testis or proliferative change in the
pancreatic acinar cells seen in rodents were not seen histopathologically; also, 
no changes were observed in testes weight, testicular zinc level, blood levels of
testosterone and estradiol, pancreas weight, and blood levels of cholecystokinin.
Finally, no changes considered to be due to the administration of DEHP were noted
in blood chemical examination or pathological examination of other organs.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/toxs.1997.2414 
PMID: 9538047  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

