

3582. J Gen Virol. 1998 May;79 ( Pt 5):1257-64.

Overexpression, purification and helix-destabilizing properties of Epstein-Barr
virus ssDNA-binding protein.

Tsurumi T(1), Kishore J, Yokoyama N, Fujita M, Daikoku T, Yamada H, Yamashita Y, 
Nishiyama Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Viral Oncology, Aichi Cancer Center Research Institute, Nagoya, 
Japan. ttsurumi@aichi-cc.pref.aichi.jp

The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) ssDNA-binding protein (SSB) encoded by the BALF2
gene is one of the essential replication proteins in the lytic phase of EBV DNA
replication. In order to obtain the amount of EBV SSB required for
characterization, a recombinant baculovirus containing the complete sequence of
the BALF2 open reading frame under the control of the baculovirus polyhedrin
promoter was constructed. Insect cells infected with the recombinant virus
produced a protein of 130 kDa, recognized by anti-BALF2 protein-specific
polyclonal antibody. The overexpressed EBV SSB was purified homogeneously from
the cytosolic fraction of the recombinant virus-infected cells. The purified
protein displaced short DNA strands from their complementary sequences in the
single-stranded form of M13. The helix-destabilizing activity was neutralized by 
the anti-BALF2 protein-specific antibody. Maximum unwinding occurred at EBV SSB
concentrations exceeding saturation level of the DNA substrate. The DNA unwinding
reaction mediated by the EBV SSB was highly cooperative and extremely rapid. The 
reaction displayed no directionality and required neither ATP nor MgCl2, two
essential cofactors for DNA helicase activity. The helix-destabilizing property
of the EBV SSB may function to melt out secondary structures on the ssDNA
template, thereby facilitating the movement of the EBV DNA polymerase.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-79-5-1257 
PMID: 9603341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

