

3590. J Virol. 1998 May;72(5):3698-704.

Substitution of ras for the herpesvirus saimiri STP oncogene in lymphocyte
transformation.

Guo J(1), Williams K, Duboise SM, Alexander L, Veazey R, Jung JU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, New England Regional
Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough, Massachusetts
01772-9102, USA.

STP-C488 (STP of herpesvirus saimiri [HVS] group C strain 488 [C488]) is the only
virus-encoded protein found to associate with cellular ras and activate ras
signal transduction pathways. To investigate an important role for ras signal
transduction in STP-dependent growth transformation, we constructed recombinant
strains of HVS C488 in which the STP-C488 oncogene was replaced with cellular
normal ras (c-ras) or viral oncogenic ras (v-ras). Recombinant HVS deltaSTP/v-ras
immortalized primary common marmoset T lymphocytes to interleukin-2-independent
growth as efficiently as wild-type HVS C488 (wt HVS), while recombinant HVS
deltaSTP/c-ras did so with low efficiency. Whereas wt HVS immortalized CD4- CD8+ 
single-positive T lymphocytes, HVS deltaSTP/c-ras- and HVS
deltaSTP/v-ras-immortalized cells were principally CD4+ CD8+ double-positive T
lymphocytes. In addition, HVS deltaSTP/v-ras-immortalized T cells showed a high
level of ras expression and exhibited an adherent macrophage-like morphology.
These phenotypes were likely caused by the drastic activation of AP-1
transcriptional factor activity. Finally, HVS deltaSTP/v-ras and HVS
deltaSTP/c-ras each induced lymphoma in one of two common marmosets, although
onset of disease was more rapid with the v-ras virus. These results demonstrate
that ras can substitute for the STP oncogene of HVS C488 to allow immortalized
growth of primary lymphoid cells and that an activated form of ras does so more
efficiently than the normal cellular form of ras.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.5.3698-3704.1998 
PMCID: PMC109591
PMID: 9557651  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

