

3593. J Comp Neurol. 1998 Apr 6;393(2):196-209.

Horizontal cell connections with short wavelength-sensitive cones in the retina: 
a comparison between New World and Old World primates.

Chan TL(1), Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Institute for Biomedical Research, The University
of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Recent studies in the Old World macaque monkey have shown that the two horizontal
cell types H1 and H2 differ with respect to their connections to short
wavelength-sensitive (SWS) cones. We wanted to establish whether this pattern of 
connectivity is common to all primates. The connections of horizontal cells with 
SWS cones were studied in the retinas of two species of New World (marmoset and
tamarin) and two species of Old World (orangutan and chimpanzee) primates by
using a double-labelling technique. Horizontal cells were labelled with DiI and
then photoconverted; SWS cones were labelled immunocytochemically. The marmoset
shows a sex-linked polymorphism of colour vision: All males are dichromats,
whereas most females are trichromats. In contrast, Old World primates are usually
trichromats. Our results show that the horizontal cells of both New World and Old
World primates have a comparable pattern of connectivity with SWS cones and thus 
indicate that the wiring of horizontal cells with SWS cones does not differ
between dichromats and trichromats and is common to all primates. The H1 cells
make no or only sparse contact with SWS cones. In marmoset, H1 cells have on
average 0.8% of their dendritic terminals at SWS cones. The H2 cells contact all 
SWS cones in their dendritic field. In marmoset, H2 cells have on average 11.8%
of their dendritic terminals at SWS cones. The axon of H2 cells contacts SWS
cones but presumably also contacts other cones.


PMID: 9548697  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

