

3595. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Mar 17;95(6):3168-71.

Proliferation of granule cell precursors in the dentate gyrus of adult monkeys is
diminished by stress.

Gould E(1), Tanapat P, McEwen BS, Fl√ºgge G, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Green Hall, Princeton, NJ
08544, USA. goulde@princeton.edu

Although granule cells continue to be added to the dentate gyrus of adult rats
and tree shrews, this phenomenon has not been demonstrated in the dentate gyrus
of adult primates. To determine whether neurons are produced in the dentate gyrus
of adult primates, adult marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were injected with
BrdU and perfused 2 hr or 3 weeks later. BrdU is a thymidine analog that is
incorporated into proliferating cells during S phase. A substantial number of
cells in the dentate gyrus of adult monkeys incorporated BrdU and approximately
80% of these cells had morphological characteristics of granule neurons and
expressed a neuronal marker by the 3-week time point. Previous studies suggest
that the proliferation of granule cell precursors in the adult dentate gyrus can 
be inhibited by stress in rats and tree shrews. To test whether an aversive
experience has a similar effect on cell proliferation in the primate brain, adult
marmoset monkeys were exposed to a resident-intruder model of stress. After 1 hr 
in this condition, the intruder monkeys were injected with BrdU and perfused 2 hr
later. The number of proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus of the intruder
monkeys was compared with that of unstressed control monkeys. We found that a
single exposure to this stressful experience resulted in a significant reduction 
in the number of these proliferating cells. Our results suggest that neurons are 
produced in the dentate gyrus of adult monkeys and that the rate of precursor
cell proliferation can be affected by a stressful experience.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.6.3168 
PMCID: PMC19713
PMID: 9501234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

