

3596. J Neurosci Res. 1998 Mar 15;51(6):723-34.

Axonal regrowth through a collagen guidance channel bridging spinal cord to the
avulsed C6 roots: functional recovery in primates with brachial plexus injury.

Liu S(1), Bodjarian N, Langlois O, Bonnard AS, Boisset N, Peulvé P, Saïd G, Tadié
M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital of Bicêtre, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.

Intraspinal implantation of a collagen guidance channel (CGC) to promote axon
regeneration was investigated in marmosets with brachial plexus injury. After
avulsion of the right C5, C6 and C7 spinal roots, a CGC containing (group B) or
not (group A) a nerve segment, or a nerve graft (group C), was ventro-laterally
implanted into the cord to bridge the ventral horn and the avulsed C6 roots. No
spinal cord dysfunction was observed following surgery. Two months later, the
postoperative flaccid paralysis of the lesioned arm improved. In five months, a
normal electromyogram of the affected biceps muscle was recorded in all repaired 
animals. Motor evoked potentials were obtained with a mean amplitude of 13.37 +/-
13.66 microV in group A, 13.21 +/- 5.16 microV in group B and 37.14 +/- 35.16
microV in group C. The force of biceps muscle contraction was 27.33 +/- 20.03 g
(group A), 24.33 +/- 17.03 g (group B) and 37.38 +/- 21.70 g (group C).
Retrograde tracing by horseradish peroxidase showed labelled motoneurons
ipsilaterally located in the C5 and C6 ventral horn, nearby the implantation
site. The mean labelled neurons was 32.33 +/- 21.13, 219.33 +/- 176.29 and 64.33 
+/- 23.54 in group A, B and C respectively. Histological analysis presented
numerous myelinated and unmyelinated regenerating axons in the implant of these
animals. Statistical analysis did not show significant difference among the three
repaired groups. Our results indicate that spinal neurons can regenerate through 
a CGC to avulsed nerve roots and induce motor recovery in primates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-4547(19980315)51:6<723::AID-JNR6>3.0.CO;2-D 
PMID: 9545086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

