

3601. J Virol. 1998 Apr;72(4):2905-16.

A single amino acid change in the hemagglutinin protein of measles virus
determines its ability to bind CD46 and reveals another receptor on marmoset B
cells.

Hsu EC(1), Sarangi F, Iorio C, Sidhu MS, Udem SA, Dillehay DL, Xu W, Rota PA,
Bellini WJ, Richardson CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

This paper provides evidence for a measles virus receptor other than CD46 on
transformed marmoset and human B cells. We first showed that most tissues of
marmosets are missing the SCR1 domain of CD46, which is essential for the binding
of Edmonston measles virus, a laboratory strain that has been propagated in Vero 
monkey kidney cells. In spite of this deletion, the common marmoset was shown to 
be susceptible to infections by wild-type isolates of measles virus, although
they did not support Edmonston measles virus production. As one would expect from
these results, measles virus could not be propagated in owl monkey or marmoset
kidney cell lines, but surprisingly, both a wild-type isolate (Montefiore 89) and
the Edmonston laboratory strain of measles virus grew efficiently in B95-8
marmoset B cells. In addition, antibodies directed against CD46 had no effect on 
wild-type infections of marmoset B cells and only partially inhibited the
replication of the Edmonston laboratory strain in the same cells. A direct
binding assay with insect cells expressing the hemagglutinin (H) proteins of
either the Edmonston or Montefiore 89 measles virus strains was used to probe the
receptors on these B cells. Insect cells expressing Edmonston H but not the
wild-type H bound to rodent cells with CD46 on their surface. On the other hand, 
both the Montefiore 89 H and Edmonston H proteins adhered to marmoset and human B
cells. Most wild-type H proteins have asparagine residues at position 481 and can
be converted to a CD46-binding phenotype by replacement of the residue with
tyrosine. Similarly, the Edmonston H protein did not bind CD46 when its Tyr481
was converted to asparagine. However, this mutation did not affect the ability of
Edmonston H to bind marmoset and human B cells. The preceding results provide
evidence, through the use of a direct binding assay, that a second receptor for
measles virus is present on primate B cells.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.4.2905-2916.1998 
PMCID: PMC109736
PMID: 9525611  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

