

3604. J Comp Neurol. 1998 Mar 30;393(1):118-34.

Transient molecular visualization of ocular dominance columns (ODCs) in normal
adult marmosets despite the desegregated termination of the
retino-geniculo-cortical pathways.

Markstahler U(1), Bach M, Spatz WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Germany.

The activity-dependent immediate early gene protein Krox-24, expressed in the
neocortex at high basal levels, decreases rapidly upon neuronal deactivation
(Chaudhuri et al. [1995] Vis. Neurosci. 12:35-50). In infant marmosets, as in
most primates, the geniculo-cortical terminations segregate into eye-specific
anatomical ocular dominance columns (ODCs), which disappear, however, during
adolescence (Spatz [1989] Brain Res. 488:376-380), resulting in balanced inputs
from the two eyes (Sengpiel et al. [1996] Vis. Neurosci. 13:145-160).
Nevertheless, we found, in adult marmosets, 24 hours after monocular retinal
activity blockade by tetrodotoxin, distinct alternating compartments of
potentiated and depressed Krox-24-like immunoreactivity (Krox-IR) in layer IV of 
area 17. This pattern of Krox-IR disappeared at 10 days of retinal silencing, but
was still present at this survival time in stains for cytochrome oxidase or
NADPH-diaphorase. After 20 days of retinal silencing, the pattern was not
demonstrable with any of the three stains. We term these compartments
physiological ODCs, in contrast to the anatomical ODCs of most primates. If the
anatomical ODCs of infant marmosets disappear by collateral sprouting into the
inappropriate ODCs, then the collateral geniculo-cortical synapses might differ
slightly in their properties from the original ones. We silenced the sets of
original and collateral synapses of the one ocularity. This apparently
transiently initiated, at the synapses driven by the intact eye, two different
complex processes leading to molecular potentiation at the original synapses and 
to molecular depression at the collateral synapses.


PMID: 9520106  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

