

3621. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Nov 3;387(4):547-67.

The second visual area in the marmoset monkey: visuotopic organisation,
magnification factors, architectonical boundaries, and modularity.

Rosa MG(1), Fritsches KA, Elston GN.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch & Hearing Research Centre, Department of Physiology and
Pharmacology, The University of Queensland, Australia. M.Rosa@vthrc.uq.edu.au

The organisation of the second visual area (V2) in marmoset monkeys was studied
by means of extracellular recordings of responses to visual stimulation and
examination of myelin- and cytochrome oxidase-stained sections. Area V2 forms a
continuous cortical belt of variable width (1-2 mm adjacent to the foveal
representation of V1, and 3-3.5 mm near the midline and on the tentorial surface)
bordering V1 on the lateral, dorsal, medial, and tentorial surfaces of the
occipital lobe. The total surface area of V2 is approximately 100 mm2, or about
50% of the surface area of V1 in the same individuals. In each hemisphere, the
receptive fields of V2 neurones cover the entire contralateral visual hemifield, 
forming an ordered visuotopic representation. As in other simians, the dorsal and
ventral halves of V2 represent the lower and upper contralateral quadrants,
respectively, with little invasion of the ipsilateral hemifield. The
representation of the vertical meridian forms the caudal border of V2, with V1,
whereas a field discontinuity approximately coincident with the horizontal
meridian forms the rostral border of V2, with other visually responsive areas.
The bridge of cortex connecting dorsal and ventral V2 contains neurones with
receptive fields centred within 1 degree of the centre of the fovea. The
visuotopy, size, shape and location of V2 show little variation among
individuals. Analysis of cortical magnification factor (CMF) revealed that the V2
map of the visual field is highly anisotropic: for any given eccentricity, the
CMF is approximately twice as large in the dimension parallel to the V1/V2 border
as it is perpendicular to this border. Moreover, comparison of V2 and V1 in the
same individuals demonstrated that the representation of the central visual field
is emphasised in V2, relative to V1. Approximately half of the surface area of V2
is dedicated to the representation of the central 5 degrees of the visual field. 
Calculations based on the CMF, receptive field scatter, and receptive field size 
revealed that the point-image size measured parallel to the V1/V2 border (2-3 mm)
equals the width of a full cycle of cytochrome oxidase stripes in V2, suggesting 
a close correspondence between physiological and anatomical estimates of the
dimensions of modular components in this area.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9861(19971103)387:4<547::aid-cne6>3.0.co;2-2 
PMID: 9373013  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

