

3624. Mov Disord. 1997 Nov;12(6):935-45.

Entacapone enhances levodopa-induced reversal of motor disability in MPTP-treated
common marmosets.

Smith LA(1), Gordin A, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, England,
U.K.

Oral administration of levodopa (L-dopa) (2.5-25.0 mg/kg) plus carbidopa (12.5
mg/kg p.o.) to MPTP-treated common marmosets produced a dose-related increase in 
locomotor activity and a corresponding decrease in motor disability. Pretreatment
with the peripheral COMT inhibitor entacapone (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) enhanced the
intensity and duration of the increase in locomotor activity and the reversal of 
motor disability produced by a threshold dose of L-dopa (2.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus
carbidopa. By contrast, entacapone pretreatment did not potentiate the increased 
locomotor activity or reversal of motor disability produced by a near-maximal
dose of L-dopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) plus carbidopa. The effects of entacapone
(5.0-25.0 mg/kg p.o.) were dose related, with doses of > 12.5 mg/kg tending to
produce less potentiation of L-dopa's effects compared to lower doses.
Pretreatment with entacapone (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) without carbidopa caused a
short-lasting enhancement of L-dopa's (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) action, whereas
pretreatment with carbidopa (12.5 mg/kg p.o.) alone had a more dramatic effect.
However, pretreatment with both carbidopa and entacapone produced the greatest
overall motor response. In conclusion, entacapone enhances the motor response
produced by a low-threshold dose of L-dopa plus carbidopa. However, optimization 
of both the dose of L-dopa and entacapone appears necessary to obtain the maximal
therapeutic response.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870120616 
PMID: 9399218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

