

3627. J Neuroimmunol. 1997 Nov;79(2):119-28.

Inhibition of allergic encephalomyelitis in marmosets by vaccination with
recombinant vaccinia virus encoding for myelin basic protein.

Genain CP(1), Gritz L, Joshi N, Panicali D, Davis RL, Whitaker JN, Letvin NL,
Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0435,
USA. claudeg@itsa.ucsf.edu

A primary demyelinating form of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE)
resembling human multiple sclerosis (MS) occurs in Callithrix jacchus marmosets
following immunization with human white matter. Participation of a T-cell immune 
response against myelin basic protein (MBP) in this disease model is supported by
observations of increased reactivity against MBP in PBMC and of adoptive transfer
of an inflammatory form of EAE by MBP-reactive T-cells. To evaluate the effects
of ectopic presentation of MBP on marmoset EAE, animals were vaccinated prior to 
induction of EAE by subcutaneous injection of attenuated strains of vaccinia
virus genetically engineered to contain either the entire coding sequence for
human MBP (vT15) or the equine herpes virus glycoprotein gH gene (vAbT249).
Vaccination with vT15 was followed by transient cytoplasmic and surface membrane 
expression of MBP in circulating PBMC (15-45 days). The onset of clinical EAE
after immunization (pi) was markedly delayed in vT15-vaccinated animals (37-97
days pi, n = 4) compared to vAbT249-vaccinated controls (14-18 days pi, n = 3).
Proliferative responses against MBP but not against vaccinia antigens or
phytohemagglutinin were suppressed in protected animals. Thus, development of
attenuated live viruses carrying genes for myelin antigens could be useful for
induction of immunologic tolerance and for modulation of autoimmune
demyelination.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-5728(97)00109-4 
PMID: 9394784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

