

3630. J Virol. 1997 Dec;71(12):9124-33.

The superantigen-homologous viral immediate-early gene ie14/vsag in herpesvirus
saimiri-transformed human T cells.

Knappe A(1), Hiller C, Thurau M, Wittmann S, Hofmann H, Fleckenstein B,
Fickenscher H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.

Herpesvirus saimiri C488 transforms human T lymphocytes to stable growth in
culture. The growth-transformed human T cells harbor the viral genome in a
nonintegrated episomal form without production of virus particles. In these
cells, virus gene expression was previously found to be confined to the
transforming genes stpC and tip. In order to analyze virus gene expression in
more detail, we applied a subtractive hybridization technique and compared
stimulated virus-transformed cells with uninfected parental T cells of the same
donor. A number of known T-cell activation genes were isolated. Viral stpC/tip
cDNAs were enriched after subtraction. In addition, the viral immediate-early,
superantigen-homologous gene ie14/vsag was represented by numerous cDNA clones
that comprised the entire spliced transcript. Whereas a weak basal expression of 
ie14/vsag was detected by reverse transcription-PCR only, the phorbol
ester-induced transcripts were readily shown by Northern blotting. ie14/vsag,
which before had been classified as a major immediate-early gene of herpesvirus
saimiri, is localized within a highly conserved region with extensive homologies 
to the cellular genome. Mutant viruses without the ie14/vsag gene are replication
competent and fully capable of transforming human and marmoset T cells. Since
ie14/vsag is transiently expressed after stimulation, it may increase T-cell
proliferation in an activation-dependent and superantigen-like but apparently
Vbeta-independent way.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.71.12.9124-9133.1997 
PMCID: PMC230213
PMID: 9371569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

