

3631. J Reprod Fertil. 1997 Sep;111(1):109-19.

Cell death during luteal regression in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Young FM(1), Illingworth PJ, Lunn SF, Harrison DJ, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The mechanism controlling luteal regression in primates is unknown but may
involve cell death by apoptosis. Marmoset ovaries containing corpora lutea were
studied at different stages of the normal ovarian cycle. Two additional groups of
animals underwent induced luteolysis with either the prostaglandin F2 alpha
analogue, cloprostenol, or the GnRH antagonist, antarelix, at the mid-luteal
phase. Apoptosis in ovarian sections was estimated both by counting the number of
cells exhibiting morphological features of apoptosis and by in situ labelling the
3' ends of the DNA fragments with digoxigenin-11-dUTP. Apoptosis was found to be 
significantly increased in corpora lutea in the early follicular phase
(equivalent to the later stage of luteal lifespan) compared with the mid-luteal
phase corpora lutea, as judged by either computerized morphometry or 3' end
labelling. Apoptosis was also increased by the administration of either
cloprostenol or antarelix when using the 3' end labelling end point, but only
after cloprostenol when using computerized morphometry. A further form of cell
death, characterized by the formation of cytoplasmic vacuoles, was also observed 
in corpora lutea undergoing both induced and spontaneous regression. These
results demonstrate that apoptosis within the primate corpus luteum is increased 
in both physiological and induced luteal regression. In addition, they show that 
an alternative form of cell death is involved in both spontaneous and induced
luteal regression, although the relative importance of the two mechanisms remains
to be determined.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1110109 
PMID: 9370974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

