

3632. Brain Res. 1997 Sep 12;768(1-2):147-56.

Vasopressin in the forebrain of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus): studies
with in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry and receptor autoradiography.

Wang Z(1), Toloczko D, Young LJ, Moody K, Newman JD, Insel TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. zwang@unix.cc.emory.edu

The distribution of vasopressin (AVP) producing cells, their projections and AVP 
receptors was examined in the brain of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
using in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry and receptor autoradiography.
Clusters of cells labeled for AVP mRNA or stained for AVP immunoreactivity
(AVP-ir) were found in the paraventricular (PVN), supraoptic (SON) and
suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Scattered AVP producing cells
were also found in the lateral hypothalamus and the bed nucleus of the stria
terminalis (BST). Neither AVP mRNA-labeled nor AVP-ir cells were detected in the 
amygdala. Although AVP-ir fibers were evident outside of the
hypothalamic-neurohypophyseal tract, a plexus of fibers in the lateral septum, as
observed in the rat brain, was not detected. Receptor autoradiography using
125I-linear-AVP revealed specific binding for AVP receptors in the nucleus
accumbens, diagonal band, lateral septum, the BST, SCN, PVN, amygdala,
anterodorsal and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, indicating sites for
central AVP action in the marmoset brain. Together, these data provide a
comprehensive picture of AVP pathways in the marmoset brain, demonstrating
differences from rodents in the distribution of cell bodies, fibers and
receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)00636-7 
PMID: 9369311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

