

364. Neuropharmacology. 2020 May 1;167:107997. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.107997. 
Epub 2020 Feb 10.

The selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist, NLX-112, exerts anti-dyskinetic and
anti-parkinsonian-like effects in MPTP-treated marmosets.

Fisher R(1), Hikima A(1), Morris R(1), Jackson MJ(1), Rose S(1), Varney MA(2),
Depoortere R(2), Newman-Tancredi A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, Hodgkin Building, King's College
London, Guy's Campus, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(2)Neurolixis SAS, 2 Rue Georges Charpak, 81100, Castres, France.
(3)Neurolixis SAS, 2 Rue Georges Charpak, 81100, Castres, France. Electronic
address: anewmantancredi@neurolixis.com.

l-DOPA is the gold-standard pharmacotherapy for treatment of Parkinson's disease 
(PD) but can lead to the appearance of troubling dyskinesia which are
attributable to 'false neurotransmitter' release of dopamine by serotonergic
neurons. Reducing the activity of these neurons diminishes l-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia (LID), but there are currently no clinically approved selective, high 
efficacy 5-HT1A receptor agonists. Here we describe the effects of NLX-112, a
highly selective and efficacious 5-HT1A receptor agonist, on LID in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated marmosets, a
non-human primate model of PD. NLX-112 exhibited modest plasma half-life (~2h)
and marked plasma protein binding (96%). When administered to parkinsonian
marmosets with l-DOPA (7 mg/kg p.o.), NLX-112 (0.025, 0.1 and 0.4 mg/kg p.o.)
reduced LID scores at early time-points after administration, whilst only
minimally interfering with the l-DOPA-induced reversal of motor disability. In
contrast, the prototypical 5-HT1A receptor agonist, (+)8-OH-DPAT (0.6 and 2 mg/kg
p. o.), reduced LID but also abolished l-DOPA's anti-disability activity.
Administered by itself, NLX-112 (0.1, 0.2 mg/kg p.o.) produced very little
dyskinesia or locomotor activity, but reduced motor disability scores by about
half the extent elicited by l-DOPA, suggesting that it may have motor
facilitation effects of its own. Both NLX-112 and (+)8-OH-DPAT induced unusual
and dose-limiting behaviors in marmoset that resembled 'serotonin behavioral
syndrome' observed previously in rat. Overall, the present study showed that
NLX-112 has anti-LID activity at the doses tested as well as reducing motor
disability. The data suggest that additional investigation of NLX-112 is
desirable to explore its potential as a treatment for PD and PD-LID.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2020.107997 
PMCID: PMC7103782
PMID: 32057799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest AN-T, MAV and
RD are employees and/or stockholders of Neurolixis Inc. The other authors have no
disclosures.

