

3642. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Sep 15;386(1):149-60.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor/neurotrophin-4 receptor TrkB is localized on
ganglion cells and dopaminergic amacrine cells in the vertebrate retina.

Cellerino A(1), Kohler K.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital, TÃ¼bingen, Germany.
alessandro.cellerino@uni-tuebingen.de

The tyrosine kinase TrkB is a receptor for the neurotrophic factors brain-derived
neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4). Retinal ganglion cells are 
responsive to BDNF, and TrkB has been localized in ganglion cells as well as in a
subpopulation of amacrine cells in the retina of the chicken and the rat. In the 
present paper, we analyzed the distribution of TrkB immunoreactivity in the
retina of marmoset monkeys, ferrets, rabbits, rats, mice, chickens, pigeons, barn
owls, Pseudemys turtles, Xenopus frogs, goldfishes, and carps. TrkB antibodies
gave a positive reaction in all of these vertebrates. TrkB immunoreactivity was
detected in the majority of retinal ganglion cells. Some amacrine cells also
contained TrkB immunoreactivity; they were located mainly at the vitreal border
of the inner nuclear layer, and their relative abundance varied in the different 
species. Until now, no information has been available concerning the
neurochemical identity of the amacrine neurons containing TrkB. In some species
(marmoset monkeys, rats, pigeons), we observed that the morphology and location
of TrkB-immunoreactive amacrine cells was reminiscent of that of the
well-described dopaminergic cells. To determine whether dopaminergic amacrine
cells contained TrkB immunoreactivity, we therefore performed double-labelling
immunohistochemistry by using tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) antibodies in combination
with TrkB antibodies in marmoset monkeys, rats, pigeons, Pseudemys turtles, and
goldfishes. The most novel finding of the present paper is that, in all of these 
species, the majority of dopaminergic neurons were found to contain TrkB
immunoreactivity. Dopaminergic neurons, on the other hand, represented only a
fraction of the TrkB+ amacrine cells. Our data suggest that BDNF and/or NT-4
might modulate expression of TH in the retina and may therefore influence the
retinal dopaminergic system. Whatever the action of TrkB ligands on the retinal
dopaminergic system, it was conserved during vertebrate evolution.


PMID: 9303531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

