

3646. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1997 Sep;58(1):85-91.

Marmoset conspecific confrontation: an ethologically-based model of anxiety.

Cilia J(1), Piper DC.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, New Frontiers Science Park, Harlow, UK.

A method of measuring confrontation-induced behavioural changes in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) together with automated monitoring of locomotor
activity has been developed as a possible model of anxiety. Recording both
affiliative and agonistic behaviours between male/female pairs of marmosets and
using diazepam as a reference drug, it has been possible to define a profile of
behavioural changes which could be regarded as representing an anxiolytic
response. Unfamiliar male/female pairs of marmosets were brought into close
(non-contact) proximity in a controlled environment, in which their locomotor
activity was recorded automatically. Simultaneously, their interactive behaviour 
was assessed by an independent observer via closed-circuit television. The
following behaviours were analysed: aggressive postures, allogrooming,
scratching, anxiety-related behaviours, social contact and self-grooming.
Administration of diazepam at 1 and 3.5 mg/kg PO induced a significant (compared 
to control) reduction in scratching, aggressive behaviours, anxiety-related
behaviours and an increase in allogrooming without affecting locomotor activity
during confrontation. Differing responses dependent on gender were not found, nor
did gender influence the effect of treatment on behaviour. Habituation to
repeated confrontation did not occur. The results from this study demonstrate
that this method can be used to measure anxiolytic activity in an objective
manner.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-3057(96)00376-0 
PMID: 9264075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

