

365. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2020 Feb 12;14(2):e0008027. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0008027. eCollection 2020 Feb.

A high infectious simian adenovirus type 23 vector based vaccine efficiently
protects common marmosets against Zika virus infection.

Luo S(1), Zhao W(2), Ma X(1), Zhang P(1), Liu B(1), Zhang L(1), Wang W(1), Wang
Y(3), Fu Y(4), Allain JP(1)(5), Li T(1), Li C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine, School of Laboratory Medicine and
Biotechnology, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Laboratory of Biosafety, School of Public Health, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, China.
(3)Experimental Animal Center, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,
Guangzhou, China.
(4)Guangzhou Blood Center, Guangzhou, China.
(5)Emeritus professor, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Zika virus (ZIKV) has spread in many countries or territories causing severe
neurologic complications with potential fatal outcomes. The small primate common 
marmosets are susceptible to ZIKV, mimicking key features of human infection.
Here, a novel simian adenovirus type 23 vector-based vaccine expressing ZIKV
pre-membrane-envelope proteins (Sad23L-prM-E) was produced in high infectious
titer. Due to determination of immunogenicity in mice, a single-dose of 3×108 PFU
Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was intramuscularly inoculated to marmosets. This vaccine
raised antibody titers of 104.07 E-specific and 103.13 neutralizing antibody
(NAb), as well as robust specific IFN-γ secreting T-cell response (1,219 SFCs/106
cells) to E peptides. The vaccinated marmosets, upon challenge with a high dose
of ZIKV (105 PFU) six weeks post prime immunization, reduced viremia by more than
100 folds, and the low level of detectable viral RNA (<103 copies/ml) in blood,
saliva, urine and feces was promptly eliminated when the secondary NAb (titer
>103.66) and T-cell response (>726 SFCs/106 PBMCs) were acquired 1-2 weeks post
exposure to ZIKV, while non-vaccinated control marmosets developed long-term high
titer of ZIKV (105.73 copies/ml) (P<0.05). No significant pathological lesions
were observed in marmoset tissues. Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was detectable in spleen,
liver and PBMCs at least 4 months post challenge. In conclusion, a prime
immunization with Sad23L-prM-E vaccine was able to protect marmosets against ZIKV
infection when exposed to a high dose of ZIKV. This Sad23L-prM-E vaccine is a
promising vaccine candidate for prevention of ZIKV infection in humans.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0008027 
PMCID: PMC7015313
PMID: 32049958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

