

3651. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1997 Aug;30(2):261-72.

Antagonism of the GPIIb/IIIa receptor with the nonpeptidic molecule BIBU52:
inhibition of platelet aggregation in vitro and antithrombotic efficacy in vivo.

Guth BD(1), Seewaldt-Becker E, Himmelsbach F, Weisenberger H, MÃ¼ller TH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Research, Dr. Karl Thomae GmbH, Biberach an der Riss,
Germany.

The glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa (the alphallb beta3 integrin) found on platelets
binds fibrinogen or von Willebrand factor when the platelet is activated, thereby
mediating the aggregation of platelets. Blockade of the GPIIb/IIIa should prevent
platelet aggregation independent of the substance or substances responsible for
activating the platelets. This comprehensive inhibition of platelet aggregation
is thought to be an effective therapeutic approach to various clinical
thromboembolic syndromes. This study investigated the platelet inhibition
provided by blocking GPIIb/IIIa by using a new nonpeptidic molecule, BIBU52, in
both in vitro and in vivo models. BIBU52 competes with [125I]fibrinogen for
binding sites on human platelets in a Ca2+ and pH-dependent manner with a 50%
inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 35 +/- 12 nM. BIBU52 inhibited the aggregation
of human platelets in platelet-rich plasma induced by collagen (1-2 microg/ml),
adenosine diphosphate (ADP; 2.5 microM), and a thrombin receptor-activating
peptide (TRAP; SFLLRNPNDKYEPF-NH2; 25 microM) with IC50 values of 82, 83, and 200
nM, respectively. The inhibition of platelet aggregation by BIBU52 was found to
be highly species dependent. BIBU52 inhibited aggregation in plasma from rhesus
and marmoset monkeys with an IC50 of 150 nM but was totally ineffective in rat
plasma. The selectivity of BIBU52 for inhibiting GPIIb/IIIa in comparison with
other adhesion molecules was investigated in a human endothelial cell adhesion
assay. The adhesion of human endothelial cells to matrices of vitronectin,
fibronectin, collagen I, or laminin was not affected by concentrations as high as
100 microM BIBU52; thus BIBU52 demonstrates a high selectivity for the human
GPIIb/IIIa. The antithrombotic effect of BIBU52 in vivo was investigated in three
animal models of recurrent arterial thrombus formation. In the guinea pig aorta, 
BIBU52 inhibited thrombus formation dose dependently, with lack of thrombus
formation for 1 h after a bolus dose of 1.0 mg/kg i.v.. Both acetylsalicylic acid
and dazoxiben were less effective in this model. In pigs with recurrent thrombus 
formation in the carotid artery, 1.0 mg/kg i.v. also inhibited thrombus
formation. Heparin was not effective in the pig, and acetylsalicylic acid was
only partially effective. In the pig, the dose of 1.0 mg/kg i.v. BIBU52 also was 
associated with a 70% inhibition of collagen-induced platelet aggregation ex vivo
but with only a transient prolongation of sublingual bleeding time to a maximum
of 2.5-fold and without other hemodynamic effects. In the marmoset monkey, a dose
of 10 microg/kg i.v. could abolish recurrent arterial thrombosis. Hemodynamic
effects of BIBU52 in anesthetized pigs were not detected in doses < or = 10
mg/kg. These data demonstrate that BIBU52 is a potent and selective antagonist of
the human GPIIb/IIIa receptor and capable of substantial inhibition of platelet
aggregation in vitro and ex vivo as well as inhibition of arterial thrombus
formation in vivo in animal models of thrombosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199708000-00017 
PMID: 9269956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

