

366. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Apr;174:113835. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.113835. Epub 2020
Feb 4.

Systematic characterization of glutathione S-transferases in common marmosets.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Tanaka S(2), Murayama N(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Kagoshima 890-8580, Japan; Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan,
Wakayama 642-0017, Japan. Electronic address: unoxx001@vet.kagoshima-u.ac.jp.
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic address:
hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The common marmoset is an important primate species used in drug metabolism
studies. However, glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), essential drug-metabolizing 
enzymes involved in the conjugation of various endogenous and exogenous
substrates, have not been identified or characterized in this species. In this
study, 20 GSTs [including 3 microsomal GSTs (MGSTs)] were identified and
characterized in marmosets. Marmoset GSTs had amino acid sequences highly
identical (86-99%) to human GSTs, except for GSTA4L, which had lower identities
(59-62%) with human GSTAs. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that marmoset GSTs were
closely clustered with their human counterparts. Marmoset GSTs had gene and
genomic structures generally similar to their human counterparts, with some
differences in GSTA, GSTM, and GSTT clusters. Marmoset GST mRNAs exhibited
distinct tissue expression patterns: GSTA1, GSTA3, GSTA4L, GSTK1, GSTT1, GSTZ1,
and MGST1 mRNAs were expressed most abundantly in liver. Other GST mRNAs were
expressed most abundantly in small intestine, lung, brain, or kidney. Expression 
of GSTT4 and GSTT4L mRNAs was detected only in testis. Among all 20 marmoset GST 
mRNAs, the most abundant mRNAs were GSTA1 mRNA in liver, small intestine, and
kidney; GSTM3 mRNA in testis; and MSGT3 mRNA in brain and lung. All 20 GSTs
mediated the conjugation of GST substrates 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene;
1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)propane; styrene 7,8-oxide; and/or 1-iodohexane, but 
with different activity levels. Kinetic analyses showed that marmoset GSTM2/GSTM5
and GSTM5/GSTT1 effectively conjugated styrene 7,8-oxide and 1-iodohexane,
respectively, with the highest affinity. These results suggest that the 20 newly 
identified marmoset GSTs were functional drug-metabolizing enzymes able to
conjugate typical GST substrates.

Copyright Â© 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2020.113835 
PMID: 32027883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this
paper.

