

3667. J Med Primatol. 1997 Jun;26(3):139-46.

Reproductive efficiency in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): a
longitudinal study from ovulation to birth monitored by ultrasonography.

Nubbemeyer R(1), Heistermann M, Oerke AK, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

This study examines reproductive efficiency in the common marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus, using sequential ultrasound examinations to establish
ovulation number, implantation rate, and incidence of prenatal loss. Ultrasound
was carried out with a 10 or 7.5 mHz probe in nonsedated animals, daily during
the late follicular phase, approximately twice a week until day 20 after
ovulation, and at days 35, 56, and 85 of pregnancy to enable visualization of
gestation sacs, heartbeats, and fetal heads, respectively. Ovulatory follicles
could be seen 3-4 days before ovulation and by day -2, 98% of ovulating follicles
were > 2mm diameter, although almost 10% of follicles of this size disappeared
without ovulating. Total number of ovulating follicles for 15 females was 45
(mean ovulation rate = 3.0, range 2-4). In the 14 animals that conceived, 41
corpora lutea were identified (mean ovulation rate = 2.9) within 10 days of
ovulation. All pregnancies went to term (no abortion occurred) resulting in the
birth of 37 neonates (9 triplets, 5 twins) and an average litter size of 2.64.
All four losses were confined to the embryonic period (< day 85), two occurring
before day 35, one between days 35 and 56, and one between days 56 and 85. In
demonstrating that 90% of ovulatory follicles gave rise to live offspring, the
results of this study indicate an extremely high reproductive efficiency in the
marmoset monkey (when maintained under favorable captive conditions) and a rate
of prenatal loss much lower than that reported for other primate species.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1997.tb00045.x 
PMID: 9379480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

