

367. Mob DNA. 2020 Feb 1;11:6. doi: 10.1186/s13100-020-0203-2. eCollection 2020.

Identification and characterization of ERV-W-like sequences in Platyrrhini
species provides new insights into the evolutionary history of ERV-W in primates.

Grandi N(1), Pisano MP(1), Demurtas M(1), Blomberg J(2), Magiorkinis G(3), Mayer 
J(4), Tramontano E(1)(5).

Author information: 
(1)1Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Cagliari,
Cittadella Universitaria di Monserrato, SS554, Monserrato, Cagliari Italy.
(2)2Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(3)3Institute of Human Genetics, University of Saarland, Homburg, Germany.
(4)4Department of Hygiene, Epidemiology, and Medical Statistics, Medical School, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(5)5Istituto di Ricerca Genetica e Biomedica (IRGB), CNR, Monserrato, Cagliari
Italy.

Background: Endogenous Retroviruses (ERVs) constitute approximately 8% of every
human genome and are relics of ancestral infections that affected the germ line
cells. The ERV-W group contributed to primate physiology by providing an envelope
protein (Syncytin-1) that has been adopted for placenta development in hominoids.
Expression of Human ERV-W (HERV-W) sequences is investigated for a pathological
role in various human diseases.
Results: We previously characterized ERV-W group genomic sequences in human and
non-human Catarrhini species. We now investigated ERV-W-like sequences in the
parvorder Platyrrhini, especially regarding two species with complete genome
assemblies, namely marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and squirrel monkey (Saimiri
boliviensis). We identified in both species proviral sequences, annotated as
ERV1-1 in respective genome assemblies, sharing high sequence similarities with
Catarrhini ERV-W. A total of 130 relatively intact proviruses from the genomes of
marmoset and squirrel monkey were characterized regarding their structural and
evolutionarily relationships with Catarrhini ERV-W elements. Platyrrhini ERV-W
sequences share several structural features with Catarrhini ERV-W elements and
are closely related phylogenetically with the latter as well as with other
ERV-W-related gammaretrovirus-like ERVs. The ERV-W group colonized Platyrrhini
primates of both Callitrichidae and Atelidae lineages, with provirus formations
having occurred mostly between 25 and 15 mya. Two LTR subgroups were associated
with monophyletic proviral bodies. A pre-gag region appears to be a sequence
feature common to the ERV-W group: it harbors a putative intron sequence that is 
missing in some ERV-W loci, holding a putative ORF as well. The presence of a
long pre-gag portion was confirmed among all gammaretroviral ERV analyzed,
suggesting a role in the latter biology. It is noteworthy that, contrary to
Catarrhini ERV-W, there was no evidence of L1-mediated mobilization for
Platyrrhini ERV-W sequences.
Conclusions: Our data establish that ERV-W is not exclusive to Catarrhini
primates but colonized both parvorders of Simiiformes, providing further insight 
into the evolution of ERV-W and the colonization of primate genomes.

Â© The Author(s). 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s13100-020-0203-2 
PMCID: PMC6995185
PMID: 32021657 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.

