

3670. Xenobiotica. 1997 Jun;27(6):557-71.

Metabolism of the calcium antagonist, mibefradil (POSICOR, Ro 40-5967). Part III.
Comparative pharmacokinetics of mibefradil and its major metabolites in rat,
marmoset, cynomolgus monkey and man.

Wiltshire HR(1), Sutton BM, Heeps G, Betty AM, Angus DW, Harris SR, Worth E,
Welker HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism, Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn
Garden City, UK.

1. The metabolism of mibefradil has been examined in rat, marmoset, cynomolgus
monkey and man after single and multiple oral administration. 2. Metabolites
typically represent between 50 and 80% of the circulating drug-related material
after single oral doses of mibefradil to man, rat and marmoset. They arise by a
combination of enzymatic processes: cytochrome P450-mediated oxidation at
saturated and unsaturated carbon atoms, cytochrome P450-catalysed dealkylation
and hydrolysis of the ester side-chain. 3. Plasma levels of mibefradil in the
cynomolgus monkey are extremely low as a result of very efficient first-pass
hydrolysis of its side-chain to give the corresponding alcohol. Steady-state
concentrations of this metabolite are comparable with those of the parent drug in
man and marmoset, but are relatively low in rat plasma. 4. Hydroxylation at the
benzylic carbon of the tetrahydronaphthyl ring leads to further important
metabolites in primates, whereas the products of O- and N-demethylation are found
in small amounts in all four species. 5. Estimates of the exposure of the various
species to the principal metabolites indicate that the choice of the rat,
marmoset and cynomolgus monkey for the toxicological assessment of mibefradil was
appropriate.

DOI: 10.1080/004982597240343 
PMID: 9211656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

