

3671. Xenobiotica. 1997 Jun;27(6):539-56.

Metabolism of the calcium antagonist, mibefradil (POSICOR, Ro 40-5967). Part II. 
Metabolism in hepatic microsomes from rat, marmoset, cynomolgus monkey, rabbit
and man.

Wiltshire HR(1), Sutton BM, Heeps G, Betty AM, Angus DW, Madigan MJ, Sharp SR.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmacokinetics and Metabolism Department, Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn Garden 
City, UK.

1. The calcium antagonist, mibefradil, is converted to some 30 metabolites after 
incubation with hepatic microsomes from the rat, marmoset, cynomolgus monkey,
rabbit and man. 2. The wide inter-species differences in metabolic profile stem
mainly from variations in the activity of the microsomal esterase, which
hydrolyses the ester side-chain of mibefradil to give the alcohol metabolite, Ro 
40-5966. Hydrolysis is especially marked in the cynomolgus monkey and rabbit,
less in man and least in the rat and marmoset. 3. The biotransformation of this
alcohol metabolite by cytochromes P450 is more facile than that of the parent
compound, leads to fewer metabolites and the metabolic profiles in all species
are similar. 4. The most important cytochrome P450-mediated metabolic process in 
microsomes in all species is hydroxylation at the benzylic carbon atom of the
tetrahydronaphthyl group; further oxidation of the resultant secondary alcohol to
a ketone also occurs. These reactions indicate the route of the biosynthetic
pathway which leads to the major, naphthyl-glucuronide metabolites previously
isolated from rat bile. 5. Dealkylation of the tertiary amino group is also
important and leads to compounds lacking either the N-methyl group or the
propylbenzimidazole moiety. 6. Hydroxylation of the benzimidazole ring at both
the 4- and 5-positions is largely restricted to mibefradil and does not occur to 
a significant extent with Ro 40-5966.

DOI: 10.1080/004982597240334 
PMID: 9211655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

