

3672. J Endocrinol. 1997 Jun;153(3):485-95.

Immunolocalisation of oestrogen receptor-alpha within the testis and excurrent
ducts of the rat and marmoset monkey from perinatal life to adulthood.

Fisher JS(1), Millar MR, Majdic G, Saunders PT, Fraser HM, Sharpe RM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh, UK.

The sites of action and the physiological role of oestrogens in the male
reproductive tract are poorly understood. We have undertaken a systematic study
of the immunoexpression of oestrogen receptor-alpha (ER alpha) in the male rat
from late fetal life through to adulthood and compared the findings with results 
obtained in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) from neonatal to adult life.
The testes, rete testis, efferent ducts and epididymis were examined from normal 
male rats (aged 4, 8, 10, 15, 20, 25, 38, 48 and 90 days) and from male rat
fetuses on days 17.5 and 18.5 of gestation; comparable tissues were examined from
neonatal, infantile, peripubertal and adult marmosets aged 8, 18-24, 54-62 and
92-112 weeks respectively. Immunolocalisation of ER alpha used antigen retrieval 
and a monoclonal antibody directed to the N-terminus, which had proved superior
to six other antisera tested. ER alpha was immunoexpressed in interstitial cells,
including the fetal/ neonatal generation of Leydig cells, in both the rat and
marmoset. In the rat, the adult generation of Leydig cells were also
immunopositive for ER alpha whereas the comparable cells in the marmoset were
only weakly immunopositive. ER alpha was not expressed in Sertoli cells,
peritubular myoid cells, blood vessels or germ cells at any time in either
species. In late fetal life in the rat, ER alpha was immunoexpressed in cells
surrounding the mesonephric tubules, whereas postnatally it was expressed in the 
epithelium of the rete testis and efferent ducts at all ages from 4 to 90 days;
this immunoexpression was most pronounced in the efferent ducts. In the marmoset,
the efferent ducts, but not the rete testis, also showed intense immunoexpression
of ER alpha. Apart from sporadic immunostaining for ER alpha in the epididymal
duct of the rat in the neonatal period, the caput, corpus and cauda epididymis
were negative for immunoexpression of ER alpha at all ages in both species. These
findings suggest that the main actions of oestrogens in the male reproductive
tract, mediated by ER alpha, are related to the development and function of the
efferent ducts and the Leydig cells. In consideration of data from this and
previous studies of oestrogen binding, we predict possible sites of expression of
other oestrogen receptors (e.g. ER beta) in Sertoli cells and the epididymis.
Interactive effects, related to the relative levels of androgens and oestrogens, 
could be physiologically important in the excurrent ducts of the adult testis.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1530485 
PMID: 9204003  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

