

3675. Endocrinology. 1997 Jun;138(6):2481-90.

Cloning and functional expression of the luteinizing hormone receptor
complementary deoxyribonucleic acid from the marmoset monkey testis: absence of
sequences encoding exon 10 in other species.

Zhang FP(1), Rannikko AS, Manna PR, Fraser HM, Huhtaniemi IT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Turku, Finland.

Based on sequence homologies among the human, porcine, rat, and mouse genes for
the LH receptor (LHR), overlapping partial fragments of LHR complementary DNAs
(cDNAs) were multiplied from marmoset monkey testicular RNA using reverse
transcription-PCR. Ligations of the individual cDNA fragments generated a
full-length monkey LHR cDNA (2031 bp) containing the complete amino acid-coding
sequence (676 amino acids). Northern hybridization analysis of monkey testicular 
RNA, using a complementary RNA probe corresponding to the full-length cDNA,
demonstrated major transcripts of 5.5 and 1.4 kilobases and minor ones of 4.0,
2.7, and 1.9 kilobases. Sequence analysis of the monkey LHR cDNA revealed a
striking feature, i.e. the absence of an 81-bp nucleotide sequence corresponding 
to exon 10, present in the LHR cDNAs of all other species studied to date. The
monkey LHR cDNA displayed 83-94% overall sequence homology with the other
mammalian LHR cDNAs. Reverse transcription-PCR with human exon 10-specific
primers demonstrated the total absence of this sequence from the monkey LHR
messenger RNA. Southern hybridization of monkey genomic DNA using a human exon 10
probe demonstrated its presence in the monkey gene and that it is totally spliced
out from the primary transcript. COS cells transfected with the monkey LHR cDNA
showed similar high affinity (Kd = 0.25 nmol/liter) of [125I]iodo-hCG binding as 
those transfected with human LHR cDNA (Kd = 0.20 nmol/liter). The cells
expressing the recombinant monkey and human LHR displayed similar responses of
extracellular cAMP and inositol trisphosphate to hCG. In conclusion, marmoset
monkey LHR seems to lack the sequence corresponding to exon 10 of the LHR gene in
other mammalian species. The truncation does not alter LHR function, as the
monkey receptor protein bound hCG and evoked cAMP and inositol trisphosphate
responses comparable to those of the human LHR containing the exon 10-encoded
structure. As the sequence homologous to exon 10 is missing in the other two
glycoprotein receptors, i.e. those of FSH and TSH, this extra exon is apparently 
inserted into the LHR messenger RNA of some species during evolution from
intronic sequences by a change in alternative splicing.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.138.6.5196 
PMID: 9165039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

