

3680. Mol Reprod Dev. 1997 May;47(1):113-9.

Fertilization-promoting peptide in reproductive tissues and semen of the male
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Kennedy AM(1), Morrell JM, Siviter RJ, Cockle SM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Animal and Microbial Sciences, University of Reading, UK.

Fertilization-promoting peptide (FPP) is present in the prostate gland and semen 
of some mammals, and has been shown to enhance the fertilizing ability of both
epididymal mouse and ejaculated human spermatozoa. The novel peptide may prove of
importance for the treatment of some cases of male infertility, and a suitable
animal model would be useful to test this hypothesis. To this end, we examined
reproductive tissues and semen of the male marmoset for the presence of FPP.
Peptides were extracted from seminal plasma, testes, prostate, and bulbourethral 
glands of intact and castrated male marmosets. The peptides were identified by
ion-exchange chromatography followed by radioimmunoassay. The mean concentration 
of FPP immunoreactivity in semen from intact males was 58.7 nM (SE +/- 9.9 nM, n 
= 10), and anion-exchange chromatography revealed FPP as the only immunoreactive 
peptide present. Analysis of tissues revealed that FPP in semen was likely to be 
derived from the prostate gland, which contained this peptide as the major source
of immunoreactivity (10.86 pmol/gland; SE +/- 4.39 pmol/gland, n = 4). Only low
concentrations of FPP were detectable in the bulbourethral glands, and the
peptide was undetectable in the testis. Surprisingly, FPP was readily detectable 
in the seminal plasma from one castrated marmoset and was present in the prostate
gland from 3 castrates at levels which did not differ significantly from those in
intact animals (5.47 pmol/gland, SE +/- 1.64 pmol/gland, n = 3). Plasma
testosterone measurements indicated that residual circulatory androgens remained 
after castration, which may be consistent both with the maintenance of mating
behavior and the presence of prostatic FPP. We conclude that FPP is present
within the prostate gland and seminal plasma of the marmoset at concentrations
consistent with a role in male fertility in this species.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2795(199705)47:1<113::AID-MRD15>3.0.CO;2-2 
PMID: 9110322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

