

3685. J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. 1997 Apr;17(4):421-9.

The effects of SB 206284A, a novel neuronal calcium-channel antagonist, in models
of cerebral ischemia.

Wood NI(1), Barone FC, Benham CD, Brown TH, Campbell CA, Cooper DG, Evans ML,
Feuerstein GZ, Hamilton TC, Harries MH, King PD, Meakin JE, Murkitt KL, Patel SR,
Price WJ, Roberts JC, Rothaul AL, Samson NA, Smith SJ, Hunter AJ.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Harlow, Essex, United Kingdom.

The effects of SB 206284A, 1-[7-(4-benzyloxyphenoxy)heptyl] piperidine
hydrochloride, have been investigated in vitro on calcium and sodium currents in 
rat-cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones and potassium-mediated calcium
influx in rat synaptosomes. Cardiovascular hemodynamic effects in both
anesthetized and conscious rats, and neuroprotective activity in in vivo cerebral
ischemia models were also investigated. In the rat DRG cells, SB 206284A caused
almost complete block of the sustained inward Ca2+ current (IC50 = 2.4 microM),
suggesting that the compound is an effective blocker of slowly inactivating,
high-voltage calcium current. SB 206284A reduced locomotor hyperactivity in the
gerbil bilateral carotid artery occlusion model without affecting
ischemia-induced damage in the hippocampal CA1 region. In the rat middle cerebral
artery occlusion model, SB 206284A reduced lesion volume in the posterior
forebrain, and in the rat photochemical cortical lesion model, lesion volume was 
reduced even when treatment was delayed until 4 hours after occlusion. At
neuroprotective doses, SB 206284A had no cardiovascular effects. These findings
show that SB 206284A is a novel calcium channel antagonist that shows
neuroprotective properties.

DOI: 10.1097/00004647-199704000-00007 
PMID: 9143224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

