

3687. Magn Reson Med. 1997 Apr;37(4):530-6.

Hepatic hemosiderosis in non-human primates: quantification of liver iron using
different field strengths.

Bulte JW(1), Miller GF, Vymazal J, Brooks RA, Frank JA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Diagnostic Radiology Research, National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892-1074, USA.

Using a non-human primate model of idiopathic hemochromatosis,
hemosiderin-induced T2 shortening of the liver was assessed at nine different
field strengths over a range of 0.05 to 1.5 Tesla. The 1/T2 values increased
linearly with field strength, with all specimens having approximately the same
zero-field intercept. The slope of the field increase, termed "field-dependent T2
proton relaxation enhancement (PRE)", appeared to be proportional to the
chemically determined tissue iron content, viz. 10.8 s-1T-1(mg Fe/g wet
tissue)-1. The correlation between iron content and field-dependent T2 PRE (r =
0.94) was better than the correlation between iron content and 1/T2 values
obtained at single field strengths. For livers containing > or = 2 mg Fe/g wet
weight, biexponential T2 relaxation behavior emerged at higher field strengths,
with the short T2 component (intracellular water) exhibiting a linear dependence 
of 1/T2 on field, while T2 of the long component (extracellular/sinusoidal water)
was nearly field-independent. After maceration of the specimens, all T2
relaxation curves became monoexponential, including those for high iron content
at high field strengths. The present data suggest that the use of double-field MR
imaging to assess the field-dependent T2 PRE has potential for specific
quantification of (liver) tissue iron stores.

DOI: 10.1002/mrm.1910370409 
PMID: 9094074  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

