

3690. J Comp Neurol. 1997 Mar 10;379(2):211-25.

Morphological analysis of the blue cone pathway in the retina of a New World
monkey, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Ghosh KK(1), Martin PR, Gr√ºnert U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13, The University of Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia. krishna@physiol.usyd.edu.au

We have studied the components of the short wavelength-sensitive (SWS or "blue") 
cone pathway in the retina of a New World primate, the marmoset Callithrix
jacchus. Of particular interest was the small bistratified ganglion cell, which
has been identified in macaque monkey to be the morphological substrate of the
blue-ON cell (Dacey and Lee [1994] Nature 367:731-735). Small bistratified cells 
were intracellularly filled with Neurobiotin in an in vitro retinal wholemount
preparation. Their morphology, size, and level of dendritic stratification were
similar to their homologues in macaque and human retina. A number of different
antibodies were applied to vertical cryostat sections, some of which were cut
through the processes of injected small bistratified or parasol ganglion cells.
We used antibodies against cholecystokinin (CCK) to label blue cone bipolar
cells, and antibodies against the human SWS cone photopigment to label SWS cones.
Double-labelled preparations showed that blue cone bipolar cell dendrites contact
SWS cone pedicles, and the inner dendrites of the small bistratified cell are
costratified with the axon terminals of blue cone bipolar cells. A monoclonal
antibody against calbindin was used to label a subpopulation of bipolar cells
that stratifies in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer. The axon
terminals of these bipolar cells occasionally cross the outer dendrites of small 
bistratified cells and show extensive costratification with the dendrites of OFF 
parasol cells. We conclude that an SWS cone pathway with similar connectivity is 
a preserved feature of the primate visual system.


PMID: 9050786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

