

3697. Biol Reprod. 1997 Feb;56(2):416-22.

Oxytocin and oxytocin receptor expression in reproductive tissues of the male
marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Ivell R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.
aeinspa@gwdg.de

Using a combination of reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to detect 
specific mRNA and immunohistochemistry employing antibodies that recognize two
different epitopes for each molecule, the local production of oxytocin (OT) and
its cognate receptor was investigated in the male marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus). There was synthesis of both OT and the oxytocin receptor (OTR) within
the testis, and both were markedly expressed within the Leydig cells. A weak
staining for both OT and its associated neurophysin could also be detected in
Sertoli cells in some animals. Expression of OT or neurophysin does not appear to
be significant in the epididymis, though there appears to be synthesis of the
receptor in some peritubular muscle cells of the epididymis and in the vas
deferens. Within the prostate, there appears to be no production of OT or
neurophysin, though there appears to be weak expression of the OTR in the basal
layers of the secretory epithelium. Similarly in the bulbourethral gland, only
OTR immunoreactivity could be detected. Receptors appear to be present in the
myoid cells encompassing the glandular lobules and are presumably able to respond
to systemic OT. An analysis of juvenile marmosets indicates that the testicular
OT system appears to become established during puberty. Thus, in this New World
monkey the testis is able to support a local OT-based paracrine-type system,
though the prostate and bulbourethral gland are probably only able to respond to 
exogenous OT.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod56.2.416 
PMID: 9116141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

