

370. Biomed Pharmacother. 2020 May;125:109832. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.109832. Epub
2020 Feb 1.

Comparison of the pharmacologic profiles of arginine vasopressin and oxytocin
analogs at marmoset, titi monkey, macaque, and human oxytocin receptors.

Pierce ML(1), French JA(2), Murray TF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, 2500
California Plaza, Omaha, NE, 68178, USA; Department of Pharmacology, Midwestern
University, 555 31St., Downers Grove, IL, 60515, USA. Electronic address:
MarshaPierce@creighton.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska Omaha, 6001 Dodge St., Omaha,
NE, 68182, USA. Electronic address: jfrench@unomaha.edu.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Creighton University School of Medicine, 2500
California Plaza, Omaha, NE, 68178, USA. Electronic address:
tfmurray@creighton.edu.

The oxytocin-arginine vasopressin (OT-AVP) ligand-receptor family influences a
variety of physiological, behavioral, and social behavioral processes in the
brain and periphery. The OT-AVP family is highly conserved in mammals, but recent
discoveries have revealed remarkable diversity in OT ligands and receptors in New
World Monkeys (NWMs) providing a unique opportunity to assess the effects of
genetic variation on pharmacological signatures of peptide ligands. The consensus
mammalian OT sequence has leucine in the 8th position (Leu8-OT), whereas a number
of NWMs, including the marmoset, have proline in the 8th position (Pro8-OT)
resulting in a more rigid tail structure. OT and AVP bind to OT's cognate
G-protein coupled receptor (OTR), which couples to various G-proteins (Gi/o, Gq, 
Gs) to stimulate diverse signaling pathways. CHO cells expressing marmoset
(mOTR), titi monkey (tOTR), macaque (qOTR), or human (hOTR) OT receptors were
used to compare AVP and OT analog-induced signaling. Assessment of Gq-mediated
increase in intracellular calcium (Ca2+) demonstrated that AVP was less potent
than OT analogs at OTRs from species whose endogenous ligand is Leu8-OT (tOTR,
qOTR, hOTR), relative to Pro8-OT. Likewise, AVP-induced membrane
hyperpolarization was less potent at these same OTRs. Evaluation of
(Ca2+)-activated potassium (K+) channels using the inhibitors apamin, paxilline, 
and TRAM-34 demonstrated that both intermediate and large conductance
Ca2+-activated K+ channels contributed to membrane hyperpolarization, with
different pharmacological profiles identified for distinct ligand-receptor
combinations. Understanding more fully the contributions of structure activity
relationships for these peptide ligands at vasopressin and OT receptors will help
guide the development of OT-mediated therapeutics.

Copyright Â© 2020 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2020.109832 
PMCID: PMC7196279
PMID: 32018219  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest None.

