

3703. Contemp Top Lab Anim Sci. 1997 Jan;36(1):52-55.

Diagnosis and Treatment of Trichospirura leptostoma Infection in Common Marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Hawkins JV(1), Clapp NK, Carson RL, Henke MA, McCracken MD, Faulkner CT, Patton
S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioresources, Henry Ford Hospital, 2799 West Grand Blvd.,
Detroit, MI 48202.

Trichospirura leptostoma is a spirurid nematode that inhabits the pancreatic
ducts of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, and other New World primates.
This parasite was diagnosed in members of this species at the Marmoset Research
Center in Oak Ridge, Tennessee colony after their importation from multiple
colonies outside the United States. Animals with few parasites in the pancreas
had few tissue changes, whereas those with many parasites had moderate to severe 
fibrosis replacing exocrine tissue. Trichospirura leptostoma can cause chronic
pancreatitis, resulting in subclinical to clinical pancreatic insufficiency and
secondary malnutrition. Clinical signs of pancreatic insufficiency in affected
marmosets included weight loss (despite good appetite) and increased fecal
volume. Because earlier reports did not mention treatments, experimental
therapeutic regimens were attempted to eliminate infections from the marmosets.
In the clinical studies, different doses and treatment periods with ivermectin
and fenbendazole were evaluated for therapeutic efficacy. Fenbendazole given
daily at a dosage of 50 mg/kg of body weight by gavage for 14 days was the most
effective treatment (PI 0.052). Control of the cockroach vector, as well as
treatment of infected animals, is needed to prevent Trichospirura
leptostoma-induced disease.


PMID: 12456185 

