

3707. Am J Primatol. 1997;43(4):347-55.

Ovarian function of pygmy marmoset daughters (Cebuella pygmaea) in intact and
motherless families.

Carlson AA(1), Ziegler TE, Snowdon CT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA.

Reproductive inhibition of subordinate Callitrichid group members has been shown 
to vary with genus; whereas female Leontopithecus subordinates have normal
ovarian cycles and occasionally breed within groups, subordinate Saguinus females
almost never do so, with Callithrix species showing intermediate levels of
reproductive inhibition. No information has been available on patterns of
reproduction or inhibition in subordinate females in the genus Cebuella. We
assessed fertility in Cebuella pygmaea daughters to allow comparison with the
remaining Callitrichid genera. Specifically, the project had two goals: 1) to
determine if there was evidence of reproductive inhibition of daughters living in
family groups, and 2) to compare the ovarian function of daughters living in
intact family groups with that of daughters residing in motherless families
(i.e., without the breeding female). We collected daily urine samples for 6-8
weeks from eight pygmy marmoset daughters living in intact family groups or
motherless families. Determination of ovulatory cycling or reproductive
quiescence depended on the hormonal profiles generated from urinary luteinizing
hormone and pregnanediol-3-glucuronide concentrations. All females in the
motherless condition (aged 13-30 months) (n = 4) ovulated during the study. In
contrast, only one of four daughters (aged 13-20 months) residing in intact
families was found to be cycling. Data from motherless groups indicate ovarian
cycling may begin between 15 and 17 months of age. Reproductive inhibition occurs
in pygmy marmosets, although in a pattern more similar to Callithrix than to
other Callitrichid genera.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)43:4<347::AID-AJP6>3.0.CO;2-X 
PMID: 9403099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

