

3722. Am J Primatol. 1997;41(3):179-93.

Development of an enzyme-immunoassay (EIA) for the measurement of
follicle-stimulating-hormone (FSH) in Callitrichid primates using a monoclonal
antibody against the human-FSH-beta-subunit.

Rosenbusch J(1), Dias JA, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, Goettingen,
Germany.

Despite the importance of Callitrichid primates in both biomedical and
conservation research, practical and reliable immunoassays for the measurement of
follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) have not yet been described. A panel of
monoclonal antibodies against specific peptide fragments within either the alpha 
or beta subunit of human FSH was evaluated for their ability to recognize FSH
from Callitrichid and other New World primates. One of these, monoclonal antibody
46.3h6.b7 raised against human FSH, was selected due to its ability to recognize 
marmoset monkey FSH and its low crossreactivity with other gonadotrophins. The
antibody formed the basis of an enzymeimmunoassay using a highly purified human
urinary FSH (Metrodin, Serono) preparation coupled to biotin as label and
unmodified as standard. After 24 h incubation, antibody bound label was
visualized by addition of streptavidin-peroxidase followed by the appropriate
substrate. Parallelism was obtained between the standard and dilutions of
pituitary extracts, urine and plasma from the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) as well as from two tamarin species (Saguinus fuscicollis and S.
oedipus) and one squirrel monkey (Saimiri sciureus). Profiles of plasma and
urinary FSH during the follicular phase are shown for two individual marmosets.
The ability to measure FSH in Callitrichidae provides new opportunities for
studies of the reproductive biology of these New World primate species.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1997)41:3<179::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-U 
PMID: 9057964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

