

3729. Biol Reprod. 1997 Jan;56(1):238-46.

Maturation, fertilization, and development of marmoset monkey oocytes in vitro.

Gilchrist RB(1), Nayudu PL, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.
rgilchrist@medicine.adelaide.edu.au

This study was conducted to investigate 1) the capacity of in vitro-matured (IVM)
marmoset oocytes to be fertilized and to support embryonic development in vitro
and 2) oocyte meiotic maturation in relation to in vivo FSH administration,
follicle size, and oocyte-cumulus cell status. Pairs of ovaries were collected on
Day 4 of the follicular phase from adult females receiving either 1) human FSH (3
IU; n = 5) or 2) control (saline; n = 5) daily for 4 days. Antral follicles were 
excised from ovaries and separated into classes according to size: class 1
(660-840 microm), class 2 (> 840-1000 microm), class 3 (> 1000-1400 microm), and 
class 4 (> 1400 microm). A total of 823 partially naked and cumulus-enclosed
oocytes (CEOs) were released from follicles and cultured in vitro. Cumulus cells 
remaining after 22 h were removed, metaphase II (MII) oocytes were inseminated
with epididymal sperm, and resulting embryos were cultured until developmental
arrest. Fluorescence microscopy was used to assess oocyte meiotic and embryo
developmental progression. Oocyte germinal vesicle breakdown (GVB)- and
MII-competencies increased significantly with follicular size (p < 0.01 and p <
0.0001, respectively), although they were independent of oocyte-cumulus cell
associations. After 24 and 32 h in vitro, 69% and 93%, respectively, of CEOs with
MII competence had completed meiotic maturation, and the rate of nuclear
maturation increased progressively with follicle size (p < 0.01) and with the
association of cumulus cells (p < 0.01). In vivo FSH priming slightly improved
oocyte GVB- and MII-competencies (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively) and
decreased the time required to achieve MII (p < 0.01). IVM oocytes from all
follicle sizes fertilized (78-92%) in vitro, with 27% developing to morula- and
4% to blastocyst-stage embryos. This study demonstrates for the first time that
IVM New World primate oocytes are able to support advanced preimplantation
embryonic development in vitro. Oocyte meiotic competence and the time course of 
nuclear maturation are profoundly influenced by their follicular origin, and
marginally by FSH treatment.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod56.1.238 
PMID: 9002655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

