

3735. J Med Primatol. 1996 Dec;25(6):424-34.

Tumors of the respiratory tract observed at the German Primate Center, 1978-1994.

Brack M(1), Schwartz P, Heinrichs T, Schultz M, Fuchs E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, German Primate Center, Göttingen, Germany.

Eight spontaneous pulmonary tumors (four bronchiolar tubular adenomas, two
bronchiolar adenocarcinomas, two squamous-cell carcinomas) occurred in a total of
54 adult tree shrews (Tupaia belangeri) of the GPC colonies between 1978 and
1994. The adenomas and adenocarcinomas consisted of tubularly or trabecularly
arranged cuboidal to cylindrical cells interspersed with some PAS-positive goblet
cells, thus resembling the epithelial lining of respiratory bronchioles of tree
shrews. The two squamous-cell carcinomas probably originated from the pulmonary
alveoles. Three more pulmonary tumors (one small-cell carcinoma, one bronchial
adenoma, one squamous-cell carcinoma) developed in 409 adult callitrichids of the
GPC colonies during the same period, and one more bronchial adenoma was observed 
in a common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) of another colony located in Göttingen.
With regard to the adenomas and squamous-cell carcinomas, a similar cellular
origin with the three shrews is assumed. The small-cell carcinoma possibly
developed from the bronchial epithelium, provided a pathogenesis parallel to that
of human small-cell carcinoma is suggested. Four of the tree shrew pulmonary
adenomas/adenocarcinomas and the small-cell Ca were macroscopically visible as
yellowish-grey nodules of 1 mm x 1 mm to 15 mm x 15 mm diameter, predominantly
involving the main lobes (2 x right main lobes, 2 x left main lobes, 1 x all
lobes). The pulmonary tumors of the other animals were below macroscopical
detectability.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0684.1996.tb00039.x 
PMID: 9210028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

