

3738. Methods. 1996 Dec;10(3):420-34.

Allergic Encephalomyelitis in Common Marmosets: Pathogenesis of a Multiple
Sclerosis-like Lesion

Genain CP(1), Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, California, 
94143-0435

Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an autoimmune disease of the
central nervous system that has been extensively studied as a model for the human
demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS). Here we describe the
characteristics of a novel form of EAE developed in a nonhuman primate. In
Callithrix jacchus marmosets (C. jacchus), immunization with whole brain white
matter induces a primary demyelinating disease with a relapsing-remitting chronic
course, closely resembling human MS. In these animals, the MS-like lesion results
from a complex immune response requiring both disease-inducing T lymphocytes and 
pathogenic antibody. T lymphocytes reactive against myelin basic protein are
capable of mediating the inflammatory component of marmoset EAE. Demyelination,
on the other hand, is antibody mediated. The quantitatively minor myelin protein 
myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) is an important antigen in this system,
as immunization against MOG, or passive transfer of anti-MOG antibodies,
reproduces the core features of the disease induced with whole white matter.
Advantages of the C. jacchus model of EAE for the study of MS include the
clinical and pathologic similarity between the two conditions, the natural bone
marrow chimerism in C. jacchus permitting adoptive transfer of T lymphocytes
between siblings, and the similarity of immune and nervous system genes and
proteins between human and nonhuman primates. A diverse immune response to
multiple myelin antigens appears to be responsible for the MS-like lesion in C.
jacchus, a finding that parallels emerging concepts of the pathogenesis of human 
MS.

DOI: 10.1006/meth.1996.0120 
PMID: 8954853 

