

3739. Brain Res. 1996 Nov 25;741(1-2):185-96.

1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced neurotoxicity in non-human
primates is antagonized by pretreatment with nimodipine at the nigral, but not at
the striatal level.

Kupsch A(1), Sautter J, Schwarz J, Riederer P, Gerlach M, Oertel WH.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Klinikum Grosshadern, Department of Neurology, 
MÃ¼nchen, Germany. akupsch@ukrv.de

The neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) has been shown
to induce parkinsonism in man and non-human primates. Hypotheses concerning the
mechanism of action of MPTP have been related to the pathogenesis of nigral cell 
death in Parkinson's disease. For instance, alterations of calcium influxes have 
been reported to be implicated in both MPTP-induced parkinsonism and Parkinson's 
disease. Recently, we reported that nimodipine, a blocker of L-type calcium
channels, prevents dopaminergic MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in C57B1/6 black mice.
The present study extended these rodent findings to the non-human primate model
of Parkinson's disease and assessed the effects of nimodipine, continuously
applied by pellet for 18 days, on behavioural, biochemical and histological
parameters, following systemic application of MPTP in common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus). The experimental design involved five groups of common
marmosets and a total of 24 animals. Monkeys assigned to group I (n = 4) received
subcutaneously implanted vehicle pellets 7 days prior to subcutaneous saline
injections (control). Monkeys of group II (n = 4) were treated with nimodipine
pellets (80 mg) and saline injections. Marmosets in group III (n = 8) were
treated with vehicle pellets and received 4 times MPTP (MPTP-HCl, 2 mg/kg body
weight subcutaneously, separated by an interval of 24 h for a total of 4 days).
Monkeys in group IV (n = 4) and V (n = 4) were treated as group-III animals
except for the implantation of nimodipine pellets (80 mg and 120 mg,
respectively) 7 days prior to toxin exposure. In common marmosets MPTP induced
severe parkinsonian symptoms, a pronounced dopamine depletion in the
caudate-putamen (more than 99% of control) and a loss of tyrosine hydroxylase
immunoreactive cells in the substantia nigra (50% percent of control) 7 days
after MPTP-administration. Pretreatment with nimodipine (120 mg pellets) did
neither attenuate the behavioural impairments in MPTP-treated animals nor
antagonize the striatal neurotoxin-induced dopamine depletion, but almost
completely prevented (in a dose-dependent manner) the MPTP-induced decrease of
nigral tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells. These data suggest that
application of nimodipine, during the observation period of 7 days, protects
against MPTP-induced neurotoxicity in common marmosets at the cellular nigral
level, but not at the synaptic striatal level, implicating differential
mechanisms of actions of MPTP-induced neurotoxicity at the nigral versus the
striatal level.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(96)00917-1 
PMID: 9001722  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

