

3747. Cereb Cortex. 1996 Nov-Dec;6(6):807-13.

Comparison of dendritic fields of layer III pyramidal neurons in striate and
extrastriate visual areas of the marmoset: a Lucifer yellow intracellular
injection.

Elston GN(1), Rosa MG, Calford MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Queensland,
Australia.

Basal dendritic field areas of layer III pyramidal neurons were compared between 
the first (V1), second (V2), dorsolateral (DL) and fundus of the superior
temporal (FST) areas in marmoset monkey visual cortex. These areas correspond to 
early stages of visual processing (V1, V2) and to areas specialized for the
analysis of shape (DL) and motion (FST). Neurons in fixed tangential cortical
slices (250 microns) were injected with Lucifer Yellow and immunohistochemically 
processed for a diaminobenzidine reaction product. Dendritic field areas were
calculated for layer III pyramidal cells whose complete basal projection was
judged to be within the section (n = 189). Borders between different visual areas
were established based on cytochrome oxidase immunohistochemistry and myelin
patterns in the experimental hemisphere, and electrophysiological recordings in
the contralateral hemisphere. Pyramidal neurons in V1 had a mean basal dendritic 
field area of 1.84 x 10(4) microns2 (SEM = 2.04 x 10(3) microns2; n = 21). Layer 
III pyramidal cells in V2 had a mean basal dendritic field 1.26 times larger
(mean = 2.32 x 10(4) +/- 1.78 x 10(3) microns2; n = 42) than that of V1 neurons. 
The mean dendritic field area of layer III pyramidal cells in DL (n = 76) was 1.5
times larger than that in V1 (mean = 2.75 x 10(4) +/- 1.59 x 10(3) microns2), and
that in FST (n = 50) was 2.3 times larger (mean = 4.26 x 10(4) +/- 2.79 x 10(3)
microns2). Our results show that there is a correlation between tangential
dendritic field area of basal dendrites of layer III pyramidal neurons and
modality of visual processing. The increase in basal dendritic field area of
layer III pyramidal cells may allow more extensive sampling of inputs as required
by higher-order processing of visual information.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/6.6.807 
PMID: 8922337  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

