

3748. Eur J Biochem. 1996 Oct 15;241(2):374-85.

Molecular basis of the variable mitochondrial and peroxisomal localisation of
alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase.

Oatey PB(1), Lumb MJ, Danpure CJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology, University College London, UK.

The molecular basis of the variable species-specific peroxisomal and/or
mitochondrial targeting of the enzyme alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase 1 (AGT)
has been studied in human fibroblasts by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy
after intranuclear microinjection of various human, rabbit, marmoset, and feline 
AGT cDNA constructs. The expression of full-length human and rabbit AGT cDNA led 
to an exclusively peroxisomal distribution of AGT. However, the distribution of
feline and marmoset AGT depended on the cDNA construct injected. In both species,
injection of the short cDNAs (from transcripts that occur naturally in marmoset
liver but not in feline liver) led to an exclusively peroxisomal distribution.
However, injection of the long cDNAs (from transcripts that occur naturally in
both species) led to most of the AGT being targeted to the mitochondria and only 
a small, yet significant, fraction to the peroxisomes. Reintroduction of the
'ancestral' first potential translation initiation site into human AGT cDNA led
to an 'ancestral' distribution of AGT (i.e. both mitochondrial and peroxisomal). 
Deletion of the second potential translation start site from the long feline cDNA
led to a distribution that was almost entirely mitochondrial, which suggests that
most peroxisomal AGT encoded by the long cDNA results from internal translation
initiation from this site with the consequent loss of the N-terminal
mitochondrial targeting sequence. Expression of rabbit cDNA and the short
marmoset and feline cDNAs in cells selectively deficient in the import of
peroxisomal matrix proteins showed that peroxisomal AGT in all these species is
imported via the peroxisomal targeting sequence type 1 (PTS1) import pathway. The
almost complete functional dominance of the N-terminal mitochondrial targeting
sequence over the C-terminal PTS. which was not due to any direct interference of
the former with peroxisomal import, was maintained even when the unusual PTS1 of 
AGT (KKL in human) was replaced by the prototypical PTS1 SKL. The results
demonstrate that the major determinant of alanine-glyoxylate aminotransferase
subcellular distribution in mammals is the presence or absence of the
mitochondrial targeting sequence rather than the peroxisomal targeting sequence. 
Various strategies have arisen during the evolution of mammals to enable the
exclusion of the mitochondrial targeting sequence from the newly synthesised
polypeptide, all of which involve the use of alternative transcription and/or
translation initiation sites.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1996.00374.x 
PMID: 8917433  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

