

3755. Am J Pathol. 1996 Oct;149(4):1369-79.

Biochemical and morphological characterization of vascular and lymphocytic
interleukin-4 receptors.

Schnyder B(1), Lugli SM, Schnyder-Candrian S, Eng VM, Moser R, Banchereau J,
Ryffel B, Car BD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology-ETH,
Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

The distribution of the interleukin (IL)-4 receptor in normal human and common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) tissues was examined by immunofluorescence and flow
cytometry using monoclonal antibodies specific for the human IL-4 receptor to
gain further insight into IL-4-mediated inflammatory and immunological events.
IL-4 receptor positivity was unequivocally demonstrated on lymphocytes,
predominantly T cells, and on blood vessels in many tissues. Vascular IL-4
receptor immunofluorescence consisted of a strong smooth muscle cell positivity
and weaker positive staining of capillary and venular endothelial cells.
Subnanomolar concentrations of IL-4 induced a genistein-sensitive up-regulation
of VCAM-1 in vascular cell cultures. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha induced a
genistein-resistant up-regulation of VCAM-1. IL-4 strongly induced expression of 
the IL-4 receptor on splenocytes (T lymphocytes) but not on vascular smooth
muscle or endothelial cell cultures. Receptor cross-linking to [125I]IL-4
revealed a 65- to 75-kDa accessory receptor subunit consistent with a recently
cloned IL-13 receptor associated with the IL-4 receptor on both vascular
endothelial and smooth muscle cells. The demonstration of a vascular distribution
pattern for the IL-4 receptor in addition to expression on lymphocytes suggests
that vascular functional alterations, transduced through a unique IL-4 receptor
complex (the type II IL-4 receptor), may be of importance during immunological
and allergic inflammatory events.


PMCID: PMC1865187
PMID: 8863684  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

