

3757. Toxicology. 1996 Sep 2;112(3):183-94.

Comparison of the efficacy of single or repeated HI-6 treatment following soman
poisoning in guinea pigs and marmoset monkeys.

Busker RW(1), Zijlstra JJ, Philippens IH, Groen B, Melchers BP.

Author information: 
(1)Research Group of Pharmacology, Prins Maurits Laboratory, TNO, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

The therapeutic efficacy of single or repeated doses of HI-6, together with
atropine, against soman poisoning were compared both in guinea pigs and in
marmoset monkeys. In addition, the pharmacokinetics of HI-6 were determined after
single or repeated injections. Both single and repeated HI-6 injections protected
guinea pigs effectively against 2 x LD50 soman. The plasma levels of HI-6 after
single HI-6 injection fitted a one-compartment elimination model. The plasma
levels of HI-6 following repeated injections were in accordance with those
predicted using the data obtained after single HI-6 injection. No evidence was
found for any disturbance of the HI-6 elimination in guinea pigs following soman 
intoxication. Marmosets were intoxicated with 2 x LD50 soman (s.c.), followed
after 1 min by i.m. injections of atropine and HI-6. One and 2 h later, four
animals received additional HI-6 injections. The pharmacokinetics of HI-6 in
plasma, after single and repeated HI-6 injections were similar to those found in 
the guinea pig. Furthermore, repeated HI-6 injections protected effectively
against soman: four out of four animals survived, in fair condition. In contrast,
only one out of four animals receiving single HI-6-treatment fully recovered
within a few days. Two animals died, the fourth animal survived, but had to be
euthanized 3 weeks after intoxication.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-483x(96)03358-6 
PMID: 8845039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

