

3760. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1996 Sep;127(1):1-9.

The antiepileptic agent gabapentin (Neurontin) possesses anxiolytic-like and
antinociceptive actions that are reversed by D-serine.

Singh L(1), Field MJ, Ferris P, Hunter JC, Oles RJ, Williams RG, Woodruff GN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Parke-Davis Neuroscience Research Center, Cambridge,
UK.

This report describes the activity of the antiepileptic agent gabapentin
(Neurontin) in animal models predictive of anxiolysis and analgesia. Gabapentin
displayed anxiolytic-like action in the rat conflict test, the mouse light/dark
box and the rat elevated X-maze with respective minimum effective doses (MEDs) of
3, 10 and 30 mg/kg. Furthermore, gabapentin also induced behavioural changes
suggestive of anxiolysis in the marmoset human threat test with a MED of 30
mg/kg. In the rat formalin test of tonic nociception, gabapentin dose-dependently
(30-300 mg/kg) and selectively blocked the late phase with a MED of 100 mg/kg.
However, it failed to block carrageenan-induced paw oedema. The
intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of the glycine/NMDA receptor agonist
D-Serine, dose-dependently (10-100 micrograms/animal) reversed the
antinociceptive action of gabapentin (200 mg/kg, SC). D-Serine (30
micrograms/animal, ICV) also reversed the anxiolytic-like effects (in the
light/dark box and the rat elevated X-maze) of gabapentin (30 mg/kg). In
contrast, L-Serine (100 micrograms, ICV) failed to block the antinociceptive
action of gabapentin. The antinociceptive action of (+)-HA-966 (25 mg/kg, SC), a 
partial agonist at the glycine/NMDA receptor, was reversed by D-Serine (100
micrograms/animal, ICV). However, D-Serine (100 micrograms/animal, ICV) failed to
affect the antinociceptive action of a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS
19755 (3 mg/kg, SC). Gabapentin has negligible affinity for the strychnine
insensitive [3H]glycine binding site. This indicates that the interaction between
gabapentin and D-Serine may not involve the NMDA receptor complex. Gabapentin may
represent a novel type of anxiolytic and analgesic agent.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02805968 
PMID: 8880937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

