

3761. Biol Psychiatry. 1996 Sep 1;40(5):317-37.

The biobehavioral consequences of psychogenic stress in a small, social primate
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus).

Johnson EO(1), Kamilaris TC, Carter CS, Calogero AE, Gold PW, Chrousos GP.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Endocrinology Branch, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

The biobehavioral consequences of psychogenic stress were examined using
neuroendocrine and ethological methods in a captive colony of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus jacchus). Specifically, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) 
axis reactivity was evaluated as a function of gender and social status in four
consecutive social environments [(1) stable heterosexual pairs; (2) isolation;
(3) unstable peer groups; and (4) stable peer groups], by measuring both basal
plasma cortisol, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and beta-endorphin
concentrations and responsiveness of these hormones to dexamethasone, ovine
corticotropin-releasing hormone (oCRH), and ACTH1-24. Socially stressful
conditions, such as isolation and peer group formation, were associated with
increased HPA axis function and behavioral arousal, and individual profiles were 
related to gender and social status. Hormonal levels prior to group formation
predicted subsequent status in peer groups. Basal morning concentrations of
plasma cortisol, as well as cortisol responsiveness to dexamethasone suppression,
were sensitive indices of HPA axis arousal during periods of social stress. The
context-dependent development of hormonal and behavioral profiles, reminiscent of
depression and/or anorexia nervosa, suggests that the common marmoset may be a
useful model of psychiatric hypercortisolism.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-3223(95)00397-5 
PMID: 8874833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

