

3765. J Virol. 1996 Sep;70(9):6314-22.

Human adenovirus-specific CD8+ T-cell responses are not inhibited by E3-19K in
the presence of gamma interferon.

Flomenberg P(1), Piaskowski V, Truitt RL, Casper JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Thomas Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19107, USA.

Adenovirus has considerable potential as a gene therapy vector, but recent animal
data suggest that transduced cells are destroyed by adenovirus-specific cytotoxic
T-lymphocyte (CTL) responses. Therefore, it will be important to develop
strategies to evade adenovirus-specific CTL responses in humans. As a first step,
an assay was developed to detect and characterize human CTLs directed against
adenovirus. Adenovirus-specific CTL responses were demonstrated to be present in 
four of five healthy adults by in vitro stimulation of peripheral blood
mononuclear cells with autologous fibroblasts infected with the adenovirus type 2
(Ad2) E3 deletion mutant Ad2+ND1. Killing by adenovirus-specific CTLs was major
histocompatibility complex class I restricted and was documented to be mediated
by CD8+ T cells. Wild-type-Ad2-infected cells were poor CTL targets compared with
cells infected with the E3 deletion mutant because of the expression of E3-19K,
an early viral glycoprotein which prevents transport of major histocompatibility 
complex class I antigens out of the endoplasmic reticulum to the cell surface.
However, preincubation of targets with gamma interferon resulted in enhanced
killing of wild-type-Ad2-infected cells, to levels comparable to those obtained
with Ad2+ ND1-infected cells. Radioimmunoprecipitation analysis revealed that
gamma interferon not only increased the synthesis of class I antigens but also
allowed excess molecules to escape from the endoplasmic reticulum. It is
concluded that E3-19K expression in adenovirus-infected cells inhibits human CTL 
recognition in vitro but that gamma interferon may help overcome the E3-19K
effect during acute infection in vivo.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.70.9.6314-6322.1996 
PMCID: PMC190657
PMID: 8709259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

