

3766. J Virol. 1996 Sep;70(9):6012-9.

Regulation of the herpesvirus saimiri oncogene stpC, similar to that of T-cell
activation genes, in growth-transformed human T lymphocytes.

Fickenscher H(1), Biesinger B, Knappe A, Wittmann S, Fleckenstein B.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Klinische und Molekulare Virologie,
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Germany.
helmutfr@viro.med.uni-erlangen.de

Herpesvirus saimiri strain C488, a T-cell tumor virus of New World primates,
transforms human T lymphocytes to stable interleukin-2-dependent growth without
need for further stimulation by antigen or mitogen. The transformed cell lines
show the phenotype of activated mature T cells and retain many essential features
of the primary parental cells, e.g., antigen specificity. In contrast to
transformed New World monkey T cells, the human lines do not support lytic growth
of the virus, even after chemical stimulation. Here we show that many viral genes
remain silent during episomal persistence. However, the viral oncogene stpC is
predominantly transcribed and translated to a stable cytoplasmic protein of 20
kDa that is heterogeneously expressed in individual cells. This 1.7-kb mRNA is
bicistronic, encoding also Tip, a viral protein interacting with the
T-cell-specific tyrosine kinase Lck. stpC/tip transcripts are heavily induced
upon stimulation by mitogen or phorbol ester. Block of protein synthesis does not
abolish transcription: treatment with cycloheximide greatly induces stpC/tip mRNA
levels. Thus, this gene complex is regulated similarly to early T-cell activation
genes. Constitutive and induced expression engage different transcription start
sites. The T-cell regulation of the viral genes stpC and tip may contribute to
the T-cell tropism of growth transformation by herpesvirus saimiri.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.70.9.6012-6019.1996 
PMCID: PMC190621
PMID: 8709223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

