

377. Eur J Neurosci. 2020 Jun;51(12):2412-2422. doi: 10.1111/ejn.14679. Epub 2020 Feb 
12.

The highly selective mGlu2 receptor positive allosteric modulator LY-487,379
alleviates l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat model of
Parkinson's disease.

Hamadjida A(1), Sid-Otmane L(2), Kwan C(1), Frouni I(1)(2), Nafade V(1), Bédard
D(1), Gagnon D(3), Wallman MJ(3), Rouillard C(4), Parent A(3), Parent M(3), Huot 
P(1)(2)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(2)Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(3)Centre de Recherche CERVO, Quebec City, QC, Canada.
(4)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Québec, Quebec
City, QC, Canada.
(5)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC,
Canada.
(6)Movement Disorder Clinic, Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience,
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.

l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA) is the most effective treatment for
Parkinson's disease (PD), but its use over a long period is marred by motors
complications such as dyskinesia. We previously demonstrated that selective
metabotropic glutamate 2/3 (mGlu2/3 ) receptor activation with LY-354,740
alleviates dyskinesia in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-lesioned marmoset and the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rat. Here,
we sought to determine the role played by selective mGlu2 activation in the
anti-dyskinetic effect of mGlu2/3 stimulation and have investigated the effect of
the highly selective mGlu2 positive allosteric modulator LY-487,379 at
alleviating established, and preventing the development of, l-DOPA-induced
dyskinesia in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rat. First, dyskinetic 6-OHDA-lesioned rats
were administered l-DOPA in combination with LY-487,379 (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or 
vehicle, and the severity of dyskinesia was determined. Second, 6-OHDA-lesioned
rats were administered LY-487,379 (0.1 or 1 mg/kg), started concurrently with
l-DOPA, once daily for 22 days, and dyskinesia severity was evaluated weekly for 
four consecutive weeks. We also assessed the effect of LY-487,379 on l-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian effect. We found that acute challenges of LY-487,379 0.1 mg/kg 
in combination with l-DOPA, significantly diminished dyskinesia severity, by ≈54%
(p < .01), when compared to vehicle. Moreover, animals treated with
l-DOPA/LY-487,379 0.1 and 1 mg/kg during the dyskinesia induction phase exhibited
milder dyskinesia, by ≈74% and ≈61%, respectively (both p < .01), when compared
to l-DOPA/vehicle. LY-487,379 did not impair l-DOPA anti-parkinsonian activity.
These results suggest that mGlu2 activation may be an effective and promising
therapeutic strategy to alleviate the severity and prevent the development of
dyskinesia.

© 2020 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.14679 
PMID: 31944461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

