

3776. Synapse. 1996 Jul;23(3):192-200.

Intraventricular infusion of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset.

Pearce RK(1), Collins P, Jenner P, Emmett C, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, UK.

Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) prevents damage to the nigrostriatal system
in rodents. We now report the effects of bFGF administered by intraventricular
infusion to adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) previously rendered
parkinsonian by the administration of 1-methy-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP). Infusion commenced 10 weeks after MPTP treatment and the animals received
bFGF in low (1.8 micrograms/l), medium (18 micrograms/l), or high (180
micrograms/l) doses over a 28-day period. At weekly intervals, automated activity
measurements, behavioral disability scoring, and videotape analyses were made.
There was no improvement in the motor deficits exhibited by MPTP-treated common
marmosets receiving bFGF infusion compared to vehicle-treated controls. Three of 
five high dose animals showed neurological impairment prior to the end of the
study. No significant differences were found between control and bFGF-infused
MPTP-treated common marmosets with respect to nigral tyrosine hydroxylase
immunoreactive cell counts and striatal [3H]mazindol binding. All high dose
animals showed hydrocephalus which was also observed in four other animals
receiving bFGF. Histological examination revealed proliferation of the choroid
plexus and ependyma which was most marked in the high dose animals. Adverse
effects, in the form of hydrocephalus and neurological deterioration, were
presumably secondary to an ependymal and choroid plexus reaction induced by bFGF.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2396(199607)23:3<192::AID-SYN8>3.0.CO;2-3 
PMID: 8807747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

