

3790. Hypertension. 1996 Jun;27(6):1341-5.

Bosentan ameliorates cyclosporin A-induced hypertension in rats and primates.

Bartholomeusz B(1), Hardy KJ, Nelson AS, Phillips PA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Cyclosporine-induced hypertension is a major problem in transplant therapy. The
pathophysiology of this disease is unclear. Cyclosporine increases endothelin
synthesis and release, which may contribute to this hypertension. We examined the
effects of chronic endothelin receptor blockade with the novel nonpeptide
endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan in two animal models of
cyclosporine-induced hypertension. Cyclosporine was administered daily to female 
Wistar rats (10 mg/kg per day SC for 30 days) and marmosets (30 mg/kg per day PO 
for 20 days). Control rats received vehicle. Tail-cuff systolic pressure was
significantly elevated in the cyclosporine-treated animals before the last week
of treatment. Bosentan (100 mg/kg) in arabic gum or arabic gum alone was given
daily to the rats by gavage during the last 5 days of cyclosporine treatment and 
to the marmosets for the last 7 days of cyclosporine treatment. Tail-cuff
systolic pressure was measured daily during bosentan treatment. Bosentan but not 
gum alone significantly lowered blood pressure in the cyclosporine-hypertensive
rats from 134 +/- l to 122 +/- 3 mm Hg (P<.Ol) and in the
cyclosporine-hypertensive marmosets from 156 +/- 2 to 139+/- 4 mm Hg (P<.Ol).
There were no differential effects on plasma creatinine concentration, endothelin
concentration, or end-organ weights. Bosentan had no effect in the
vehicle-treated rats. These data provide further evidence to support a role for
endothelin in cyclosporine-induced hypertension and demonstrate the effectiveness
of endothelin receptor antagonism as a novel treatment in cyclosporine-induced
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.27.6.1341 
PMID: 8641746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

