

3798. Br J Pharmacol. 1996 Apr;117(8):1679-84.

5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptor-mediated facilitation of the emptying phase of the
peristaltic reflex in the marmoset isolated ileum.

Tuladhar BR(1), Costall B, Naylor RJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Bradford.

1. The patterns of intestinal motility and the effect of an increase in
intraluminal pressure were studied in vitro on segments obtained from the
marmoset small intestine. 2. Segments obtained from the distal half of the
marmoset small intestine exhibited segmentation, consisting of narrow annular
contractions (lasting for 2-3 s) interposed between the relaxed segments of
varying length. The subsequent contractions occurred slightly distal to the
previous contraction, with ring-like contractions appearing to move in the aboral
direction. Such segmentation was infrequent or absent in the segments obtained
from the proximal half of the small intestine. An increase in intraluminal
pressure inhibited segmentation and finally produced peristalsis in most of the
tissues. 3. The influence of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor agonists and
antagonists on the threshold of the peristaltic reflex was investigated in the
segments obtained from the distal half of the intestine after segmentation had
subsided. The effect of drug application to the serosal surface was measured as a
change in threshold pressure required to trigger the peristaltic reflex. A
facilitation was defined in two ways (a) as a reduction in the threshold pressure
required to trigger the reflex and (b) in those tissues that failed to respond
with peristalsis on raising intraluminal pressure to the maximum attainable (1
kPa), as a reduction in threshold pressure compared to this value. 4. 5-HT (7.85 
+/- 0.19), 5-methoxytryptamine (7.79 +/- 0.24), 5-carboxamidotryptamine (6.66 +/-
0.13) and 2-methyl-5-HT (6.24 +/- 0.16) caused a concentration related
facilitation of the peristaltic reflex, the pD2 values (mean +/- s.e.mean) being 
shown in parentheses. 5. The concentration-response curves to both 5-HT and
5-methoxytryptamine were dextrally shifted in a surmountable manner in the
presence of GR 113808 (30 nM). pD2 values for 5-HT and 5-methoxytryptamine were
significantly decreased to 6.98 +/- 0.24 and 6.83 +/- 0.36 respectively in the
presence of GR 113808 (30 nM). 6. In the presence of a high concentration of (10 
microM) 5-methoxytryptamine the subsequent addition of 2-methyl-5-HT (3-10
microM) but not 5-methoxytryptamine (10 microM) facilitated peristalsis; the
effect of 3 microM 2-methyl-5-HT was significantly decreased by 2 microM
ondansetron. 7. It is concluded that the facilitation of the peristaltic reflex
in the marmoset intestine induced by 5-HT at submicromolar concentrations
involves a 5-HT4 receptor stimulation with an additional 5-HT3 receptor
activation at higher concentrations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1996.tb15339.x 
PMCID: PMC1909546
PMID: 8732276  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

