

3805. J Vet Med Sci. 1996 Mar;58(3):181-90.

Spontaneous lesions detected in the common cotton-eared marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Okazaki Y(1), Kurata Y, Makinodan F, Kidachi F, Yokoyama M, Wako Y, Yamagishi Y, 
Katsuta O, Takechi M, Tsuchitani M.

Author information: 
(1)Mitsubishi Chemical Safety Institute Ltd., Ibaraki, Japan.

Spontaneous lesions in the common cotton-eared marmosets (Callithrix jacchus),
which were maintained in our laboratory or were purchased from a commercial
breeder, were examined histopathologically. There were 39 males and 22 females,
between the ages of 7 and 100 months. The most interesting finding noted was
extramedullary hematopoiesis, which was observed in the mesenteric lymph nodes,
spleen, liver, kidney, adrenal gland, and cerebral choroid plexus. Megakaryocytes
were frequently observed in the blood vessels of the alveolar wall of the lung.
It is important to distinguish extramedullary hematopoiesis which occurs
accidentally from that induced by repeated blood sampling or that resulting from 
administration of chemicals. Extramedullary hematopoiesis was easily
distinguishable from inflammation or hematopoietic neoplasms, because of the
various cellular elements present, including megakaryocytes. In the weak and dead
animals, enterocolitis was found at a high frequency. Other common findings
included thymic involution, prominent vacuolation of liver sinusoidal cells,
which were probably Ito-cells, and basophilic changes in the renal tubular
epithelium. The liver and the kidney are frequently affected by toxic effects of 
chemicals. Therefore, it is important to distinguish the toxic changes from the
spontaneous ones. Proliferation of apocrine glands in the cervical skin was an
interesting finding; however, neither inflammatory change nor cellular atypia was
noted in this structure. Although its function is unclear, this structure may be 
a marmoset-specific tissue.

DOI: 10.1292/jvms.58.181 
PMID: 8777223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

