

3806. Vis Neurosci. 1996 Mar-Apr;13(2):335-52.

Topography of ganglion cells and photoreceptors in the retina of a New World
monkey: the marmoset Callithrix jacchus.

Wilder HD(1), Gr√ºnert U, Lee BB, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

We studied the anatomical substrates of spatial vision in a New World monkey, the
marmoset Callithrix jacchus. This species has good visual acuity and a foveal
specialization which is qualitatively similar to that of humans and other Old
World primates. We measured the spatial density of retinal ganglion cells and
photoreceptors, and calculated the relative numbers of these cell populations. We
find that ganglion cells outnumber photoreceptors by between 2.4:1 and 4.2:1 in
the fovea. The peak sampling density of ganglion cells is close to 550,000
cells/mm2. This value falls by almost 1000-fold between the fovea and peripheral 
retina; a value which approaches recent estimates of the centroperipheral
ganglion cell gradient for human and macaque monkey retina and primary visual
cortex. The marmoset shows a sex-linked polymorphism of color vision: all male
and some female marmosets are dichromats. Six of the retinas used in the present 
study came from animals whose chromatic phenotype was identified in
electrophysiological experiments and confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
amplification of cone opsin encoding genes. One animal was a trichromat and the
others were dichromats. Antibodies against short wavelength-sensitive (SWS) cones
labeled close to 8% of all cones near the fovea of one dichromat animal,
consistent with electrophysiological evidence that the SWS system is present in
all marmosets. The topography and spatial density of cone photoreceptors and
ganglion cells was similar to that reported for macaque retina, and we found no
obvious difference between dichromatic and trichromatic marmoset retinas. These
results reinforce the view that the main determinate of primate foveal topography
is the requirement for maximal spatial resolution.

DOI: 10.1017/s0952523800007586 
PMID: 8737285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

