

3807. Xenobiotica. 1996 Mar;26(3):333-45.

Pharmacokinetics of remikiren, a potent orally active inhibitor of human renin,
in rat, dog and primates.

Coassolo P(1), Fischli W, Clozel JP, Chou RC.

Author information: 
(1)Pharma Division Preclinical Research, F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG, Basel,
Switzerland.

1. An hplc method with fluorescence derivatization was developed for the
quantification of remikiren in plasma (limit of quantification 2 ng/ml). This was
used to determine the pharmacokinetics in various species of primate, in which
the compound is a potent inhibitor of renin, as well as in the rat and dog in
which it is less active. 2. After intravenous administration the mean residence
time was < or = 1.5 h in all species, and the plasma clearance approached the
corresponding hepatic blood flows. 3. Studies in the bile-duct cannulated rat and
dog demonstrated that the high clearance was due to a combination of rapid
metabolism, plus biliary and renal excretion of intact drug. 4. Consistent with
the high hepatic clearance, oral bioavailability was low ( < or = 6%) in each
species. However, all of the species tested absorbed a small proportion of an
oral dose extremely rapidly, to give peak concentrations generally within 5 min
of administration. 5. 'Simultaneous' collection of blood samples from the hepatic
portal vein and aorta of rat confirmed that shortly after oral dosing the intact 
drug did cross the liver; however, the later collections contained predominantly 
more polar metabolites. 6. The rapid absorption of intact remikiren is consistent
with the transient blockade of plasma renin activity, previously observed in
primates after oral administration. However, the high clearance appears
inconsistent with the subsequent prolonged decrease in blood pressure, suggesting
that the latter effect is mediated through a 'tissue' compartment.

DOI: 10.3109/00498259609046712 
PMID: 8730924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

