

3808. J Androl. 1996 Mar-Apr;17(2):164-72.

Influence of semen collection method on ejaculate characteristics in the common
marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Morrell JM(1), Küderling I, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Deutsches Primatenzentrum, Göttingen, Germany.

A source of normal spermatozoa (sperm) is required for many andrological and
reproductive studies. Ideally the method used for semen collection should be
repeatable and reliable but should not influence sperm characteristics or sperm
function. Two methods of semen collection from marmosets, vaginal washing after
copulation and electroejaculation, were compared in terms of the success rate in 
obtaining samples and the characteristics of the sperm suspensions. Vaginal
washing was shown to be a reliable, repeatable, and apparently non-stressful
method of obtaining ejaculates, with 8 out of 10 males ejaculating on at least
four of the five attempts. The semen was of good quality as assessed by
conventional means, and the sperm were highly fertile when used for artificial
insemination (Al; 100% conception rate). In contrast, fewer ejaculates were
obtained from the same males by electroejaculation (success rate 30%), sperm
survival in vitro was reduced compared to sperm collected by vaginal washing
(0.93 +/- 0.15 days for electroejaculated sperm compared to 1.98 +/- 0.3 days for
sperm from vaginal washing), and the number of animals giving birth after Al was 
smaller (0 vs. 6; P < 0.05). The proportions of motile (74.8 vs. 70.7%), live
(84.7 vs. 81%), and morphologically normal (91.9 vs. 87.6%) sperm in the
ejaculates were not affected by the semen collection method, but velocity
parameters, such as curvilinear velocity, straight line velocity, and average
path velocity, as assessed by computerized motility analysis, were significantly 
lower in vaginal washings than in electroejaculates (P < 0.023, 0.008, and 0.008,
respectively). Mean angular deviation and beat cross frequency were greater in
vaginal washings than in electroejaculates (P < 0.016 and 0.008, respectively).
Therefore the effect of semen collection method on sperm function should always
be considered when designing reproductive studies.


PMID: 8723441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

