

3809. Mov Disord. 1996 Mar;11(2):125-35.

An appraisal of the antiparkinsonian activity of piribedil in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets.

Smith L(1), De Salvia M, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College, London, England,
UK.

The D2 dopamine agonist piribedil is not widely used in the treatment of
Parkinson's disease because it was thought to be effective mainly on parkinsonian
tremor and to produce a high incidence of peripheral side effects, particular
nausea. In this study, we used 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP)-treated primates to reevaluate the antiparkinsonian ability of piribedil
after its oral administration in the presence or absence of domperidone
pretreatment. Adult common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) were treated with the
nigral toxin MPTP to induce a parkinsonian syndrome characterised primarily by
bradykinesia and other motor deficits. Oral administration of a solution of
piribedil [1-(3,4-methylenedioxybenzyl)-4-(2-pyrimidinyl)piperazine] produced a
dose-related reversal of all MPTP locomotor and behavioural deficits. However,
this effect was short lived and associated with unwanted effects, particular
nausea and retching, which clearly hindered locomotion. In contrast, after
pretreatment with the peripheral dopamine antagonist domperidone, administration 
of piribedil did not induce nausea or retching in MPTP-treated marmosets. In
these animals, piribedil caused a more marked and longer lasting enhancement of
locomotor activity and a further reduction in behavioural deficits than that
observed after administration of piribedil alone. In addition, piribedil induced 
increased vigilance and awareness. These data show that piribedil can reverse
akinesia and rigidity in MPTP-treated primates. In addition, they show the drug
to be effective without peripheral side effects when used in conjunction with
domperidone. These data indicate that piribedil should be an effective
monotherapy for Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870110203 
PMID: 8684381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

