

3810. Hum Reprod. 1996 Mar;11(3):568-73.

The effect of stress on semen reduction in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus).

Cui KH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Adelaide, Queen
Elizabeth Hospital, Woodville, Australia.

This study compared a number of semen parameters of two separate groups of the
common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) in order to determine the effect of a
continuous potentially stressful situation on these parameters, and thus on the
monkey's reproductive ability. The semen from 16 adult male marmoset monkeys was 
collected and analysed to compare semen parameters between a 'normal' (control)
group (n = 9) and a 'blood withdrawn' ('stress') group (n = 7). The semen
parameter values observed in the control were: pH 7.51 +/- 0.22, volume 40.2 +/- 
27.2 microliters, concentration 27.3 +/- 14.8 x 10(4)/microliters, motility 47.4 
+/- 15.9%, grade of velocity 3.5 +/- 1.2, and normal morphological forms 51.8 +/-
13.7%. The 'blood withdrawn' group of marmoset monkeys showed significantly lower
semen volume and sperm concentration than the 'normal' group. In addition, total 
count of spermatozoa, normal spermatozoa, motile spermatozoa and normal motile
spermatozoa per ejaculate per monkey was significantly reduced in the 'blood
withdrawn' group. The semen of these monkeys also revealed a significantly higher
percentage of abnormally-shaped sperm heads than the normal group, and cases of
impotence and sham ejaculation were recorded. Our study revealed that the
continuous withdrawal of a small volume of blood from a group of marmoset monkeys
appeared to be stressful to these monkeys and as a result, influenced their semen
parameters, possibly making them less fertile. In addition, electroejaculation
was found to be possibly harmful to the monkey's reproductive ability.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/11.3.568 
PMID: 8671268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

