

3813. J Comp Neurol. 1996 Feb 26;366(1):76-92.

Morphology of retinal ganglion cells in a new world monkey, the marmoset
Callithrix jacchus.

Ghosh KK(1), Goodchild AK, Sefton AE, Martin PR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology F13, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

We studied the morphology of retinal ganglion cells in a diurnal New World
primate, the marmoset Callithrix jacchus. This species is of interest as a model 
for primate vision because it has good behavioural visual acuity, and the retina 
and subcortical visual pathways are very similar to those of Old World monkeys
and humans. Ganglion cells were labelled by placing small crystals of the
carbocyanin dye DiI into the optic fibre layer, or by intracellular injection of 
neurobiotin. Two main classes of ganglion cell were labelled. We call these Group
A cells and Group B cells: they are respectively homologous to parasol and midget
cell classes. Group A and Group B cells show similar patterns of dye coupling,
dendritic stratification and dendritic field size as their counterparts in Old
World monkeys and humans. A third group of cells, which we call Group C, is
morphologically heterogeneous. Examples corresponding to wide-field ganglion cell
types described in Old World primates were encountered. One subgroup of C cells
has a morphology very similar to that of the small bistratified (blue-on) cell
described in macaque retina, suggesting that this functional pathway is common to
all primates. As for other New World monkeys, the marmoset shows a sex-linked
polymorphism of cone pigment expression, such that all males are dichromats and
the majority of females are trichromats. No systematic differences in Group B
cells were seen between male and female retinas, suggesting that trichromacy is
not accompanied by specific changes in ganglion cell morphology.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9861(19960226)366:1<76::AID-CNE6>3.0.CO;2-H 
PMID: 8866847  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

