

3816. Brain Res. 1996 Feb 19;709(2):259-64.

Dopamine D3 receptors in the basal ganglia of the common marmoset and following
MPTP and L-DOPA treatment.

Hurley MJ(1), Jolkkonen J, Stubbs CM, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, Biomedical Sciences Division,
Kings College, London, UK.

The distribution of the dopamine D3 receptor was studied by receptor
autoradiography using [3H]7-OH-DPAT in striatal and extrastriatal brain regions
of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Saturation studies demonstrated that
[3H]7-OH-DPAT bound with similar affinity to different regions of marmoset brain.
In normal marmosets, specific [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding was found in both striatal
and extrastriatal regions. Very high levels of specific [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding
were detected in the islands of Calleja and nucleus accumbens but in addition
high levels of binding were detected in rostral caudate nucleus and putamen. In
common marmosets treated with the selective nigral neurotoxin
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), the levels of specific
[3H]7-OH-DPAT binding in striatal and extrastriatal regions were not different to
those in normal animals. Chronic treatment of MPTP-treated marmosets with L-DOPA/
carbidopa did not alter the levels of specific [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding in any brain
region. These results demonstrate that in common marmosets D3 receptors are
located in both striatal and limbic regions. The receptor density is not altered 
by dopaminergic denervation or by chronic L-DOPA administration. The D3 receptor 
may, therefore, be important in both the therapeutic and adverse effects of drugs
used to treat Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-8993(95)01309-1 
PMID: 8833762  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

