

3819. Br J Pharmacol. 1996 Feb;117(3):427-434.

In vitro and in vivo profile of SB 206553, a potent 5-HT2C/5-HT2B receptor
antagonist with anxiolytic-like properties.

Kennett GA(1), Wood MD, Bright F, Cilia J, Piper DC, Gager T, Thomas D, Baxter
GS, Forbes IT, Ham P, Blackburn TP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Essex.

1. SB 206553 (5-methyl-1-(3-pyridylcarbamoyl)-1,2,3,5-tetrahydropyrrolo[2
,3-f]indole) displays a high affinity (pK1 7.9) for the cloned human 5-HT2C
receptor expressed in HEK 293 cells and the 5-HT2B receptor (pA2 8.9) as measured
in the rat stomach fundus preparation. SB 206553 has low affinity for cloned
human 5-HT2A receptors expressed in HEK 293 cells (pK1 5.8) and (pK1 < 6) for a
wide variety of other neurotransmitter receptors. 2. SB 206553 appears to be a
surmountable antagonist of 5-HT-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis in HEK 293
cells expressing the human 5-HT2C receptor (pKB 9.0). 3. The compound potently
(ID50 5.5 mg kg-1, p.o., 0.27 mg kg-1, i.v.) inhibited the hypolocomotor response
to m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP), a putative model of 5-HT2C/5-HT2B receptor
function in vivo. 4. At similar doses (2-20 mg kg-1, p.o.) SB 206553 increased
total interaction scores in a rat social interaction test and increased punished 
responding in a rat Geller-Seifter conflict test. These effects are consistent
with the possession of anxiolytic properties. 5. SB 206553 also increased
suppressed responding in a marmoset conflict model of anxiety at somewhat higher 
doses (15 and 20 mg kg-1, p.o.) but also reduced unsuppressed responding. 6.
These results suggest that SB 206553 is a potent mixed 5-HT2C/5-HT2B receptor
antagonist with selectivity over the 5-HT2A and all other sites studied and
possesses anxiolytic-like properties.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1996.tb15208.x 
PMCID: PMC1909304
PMID: 8821530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

