

3825. Am J Primatol. 1996;40(3):231-245. doi:
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)40:3<231::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-Z.

Urinary steroid and gonadotropin excretion across the reproductive cycle in
female Wied's black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli).

French JA(1), Brewer KJ(1), Schaffner CM(1), Schalley J(1), Hightower-Merritt
D(1), Smith TE(1), Bell SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Facility, Department of Psychology and Nebraska
Behavioral Biology Group, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Nebraska.

Details of the endocrinology of reproduction in the genus Callithrix are known
only for the common marmoset, C. jacchus. This paper presents the patterns of
urinary pregnandiol-3-glucuronide (PdG), urinary estrone conjugates (E1C), and
gonadotropin excretion throughout the reproductive cycle of Wied's black
tufted-ear marmoset (C. kuhli) as determined via steroid conjugate enzyme
immunoassays (EIA) and gonadotropin radioimmunoassays (RIA). Postpartum ovulation
occurred at 13.6 ± 1.2 days after parturition (n = 12) and was characterized by
low PdG and E1C concentrations accompanied by a spike in luteinizing hormone
(LH)/chorionic gonadotropin (CG) concentration. After conception, PdG
concentrations increased dramatically until they dropped to periovulatory
concentrations in the third trimester of pregnancy. Mean PdG concentrations in
the first and second trimesters (33.7 ± 8.4 and 39.0 ± 10.9 μg/mg creatinine,
respectively) were three times that of third trimester concentrations (11.7 ± 1.4
μg/mg Cr; n = 8). Urinary concentrations of E1C rose more gradually during
pregnancy and remained higher prepartum than urinary concentrations of PdG.
Urinary gonadotropin concentrations also increased after conception (first
trimester concentrations = 24.5 ± 4.5 ng/mg Cr) and continued to increase in the 
second trimester (51.4 ± 7.6 ng/mg Cr), until they finally decreased in the third
trimester (mean = 7.9 ± 1.4 ng/mg Cr; n = 8). The interbirth interval was 156.3 ±
2.9 days (n = 6), with a gestation of 143.1 ± 1.6 days (n = 8). Nonconceptive
cycle length was 24.9 ± 0.6 days (n = 4). The results of this study suggest
strong similarities in reproductive parameters in the genus Callithrix. © 1996
Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1996 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)40:3<231::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-Z 
PMID: 31918517 

