

3827. Am J Primatol. 1996;38(1):5-18. doi:
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)38:1<5::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-2.

Habitat and the evolution of social and reproductive behavior in callitrichidae.

Rylands AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

The numerous remarkable traits characterizing the ecology and behavior of
callitrichids have inspired considerable research and discussion of the flexible 
mating system (cases of monogamy, polygyny, and polyandry), cooperative breeding,
reproductive inhibition by dominant females, rapid reproductive rate,
significance of dietary differences (gum feeding, frugivory, and insectivory),
and demographics and social characteristics of the four genera, Cebuella,
Callithrix, Saguinus, and Leontopithecus. The majority of functional explanations
evaluate costs, benefits, and alternative strategies but do not address the
critical selective forces that led to the behaviors in the first place. In this
paper, it is argued that Callithrix and Saguinus evolved to occupy a small
insectivore/frugivore niche in secondary growth forest patches (gaps arising from
tree falls), and other successional forests and edge habitats; that Cebuella
evolved to occupy a gum-feeding/insectivore niche in inundated forest; and that
Leontopithecus is above all a small animal predator/frugivore and a mature forest
genus. The keys to explanations concerning the evolution of the social and
reproductive systems of these animals lie in an understanding of the resource
base in these different habitats. Finally, it should be remembered that studies
of callitrichids have in the main part been carried out in habitats highly
altered by human activities (especially the Brazilian Atlantic forest, home to
marmosets and lion tamarins) and are not the environments in which their social
and breeding behavior evolved. © 1996 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1996 Wiley‐Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1996)38:1<5::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-2 
PMID: 31914713 

