

3837. Life Sci. 1996;59(9):719-30.

Studies on the immunoglobulin-E system of the common marmoset in comparison with 
human data.

Schmidt S(1), Neubert R, Schmitt M, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center, Free University Berlin, Institute of Toxicology and
Embryopharmacology, Germany.

In the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus jacchus) immunoglobulin E (IgE) serum 
levels and IgE synthesis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in vitro
were investigated in order to look for homologies to the human system. While IgE 
was not found in marmoset blood plasma with three commercial antihuman IgE-kits
with monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), two other kits using polyclonal antibodies
against human IgE revealed detectable IgE concentrations of up to 10 kU/liter in 
plasma samples of 19 out of 21 marmosets. In accord with human data, rhIL-4
showed biological functions under in vitro conditions in PBMC of the New World
monkey. Proliferation, measured by 3H-thymidine incorporation, of isolated PBMC
of marmosets could be induced by rhIL-4. FACScan analysis showed an enhanced
expression of the low affinity IgE receptor CD23 (Fc epsilon RII) on CD20+ B
lymphocytes after incubation with rhIL-4. Furthermore, PBMC from marmosets could 
be stimulated by IL-4 alone or in combination with dexamethasone as well as with 
lipopolysaccharide (E. coli) to produce IgE in culture. The results indicate that
Callithrix jacchus is using an IgE system that is rather similar to that of
humans, although not completely identical. Antihuman mAbs and rhIL-4 can be used 
to investigate IgE regulation in vitro of marmoset PBMC. These data encourage the
development of a primate animal model for studying possible modifications of the 
IgE system under pathological conditions to find new therapeutic strategies in
atopic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(96)00358-x 
PMID: 8761025  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

