

3850. Life Sci. 1996;58(4):337-48.

Thalidomide derivatives and the immune system. 6. Effects of two derivatives with
no obvious teratogenic potency on the pattern of integrins and other surface
receptors on blood cells of marmosets.

Nogueira AC(1), Neubert R, Felies A, Jacob-MÃ¼ller U, Frankus E, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University Medical Center, Free University Berlin, Germany.

The two thalidomide (Thd) derivatives beta-EM12 and phthalimidophthalimide
(Phtpht), which exhibit no obvious teratogenicity, were tested for their ability 
to induce changes in the pattern of lymphocyte subpopulations, and especially
changes in integrin receptors, in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Previously, Thd
and its highly teratogenic derivative alpha-EM12 had been found to alter the
expression of adhesion molecules, such as CD2 (LFA-2) or CD11a/CD18 (LFA-1). None
of these typical effects on adhesion receptors were observed following
administration of the relatively high daily doses of 50 mg/kg body wt beta-EM12
and Phtpht. Nevertheless, there were some minor effects, such as alterations in
the receptor density on peripheral blood mononuclear cells, which were often
contrary to the effects induced by Thd. Mainly affected were: CD8 cells, B cells 
bearing the CD54 receptor and CD4 cells bearing the CD56 (NCAM) surface marker.
We observed an increase in the receptor density of CD11c (p150,95) on monocytes
with Phtpht but not with beta-EM12. The inability of the two substances with no
obvious teratogenic potential to typically modify beta 2-integrin receptors on
white blood cells at comparatively high doses is consistent with our hypothesis, 
that the teratogenicity of Thd may also be linked to alterations in the
expression of adhesion molecules.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(95)02293-7 
PMID: 8538370  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

