

3863. Virology. 1995 Nov 10;213(2):395-404.

HERV-H endogenous retroviruses: presence in the New World branch but
amplification in the Old World primate lineage.

Mager DL(1), Freeman JD.

Author information: 
(1)Terry Fox Laboratory, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, Canada.

The evolutionary origin and age of the HERV-H family of human endogenous
retrovirus-like sequences was investigated in this study. HERV-H elements exist
in approximately 900 partially deleted copies and 50-100 more intact forms in
humans and Old World monkeys. However, their possible presence in more divergent 
species is unknown. We have isolated a 1.6-kb genomic DNA segment from the New
World monkey marmoset that had been PCR amplified using human HERV-H primers. DNA
and protein comparisons and database searches indicate that this marmoset clone
is more closely related to human HERV-H elements than to any other sequence,
indicating that HERV-H-related sequences do exist in New World monkeys. In
contrast to the high copy numbers of deleted elements in Old World primates.
Southern blot analysis shows that such elements are present in less than 50
copies in two different species of New World monkey. To estimate evolutionary
ages of the common deleted form of the element, a selected DNA segment from the
pol region was compared from multiple human HERV-H elements. This comparison
suggests that many HERV-H elements of the abundant deleted subfamily integrated
approximately 30-35 million years ago. Very similar percentage divergence values 
between 5' and 3' long terminal repeats of individual elements of the deleted
subfamily also suggest that these elements are close in age. These results
indicate that HERV-H elements first appeared in the germline prior to the New
World/Old World divergence over 40 million years ago. Interestingly, they
remained in low numbers in the New World branch while a subfamily underwent a
major amplification in Old World primates before the time of divergence of
hominoids from Old World monkeys.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1995.0012 
PMID: 7491764  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

