

3864. Mov Disord. 1995 Nov;10(6):731-40.

Chronic L-DOPA administration induces dyskinesias in the 1-methyl-4-
phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmoset (Callithrix Jacchus).

Pearce RK(1), Jackson M, Smith L, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Centre, King's College London, England.

Dyskinesias occur in the majority of patients with Parkinson's disease
chronically treated with L-DOPA and also occur in several nonhuman primate
species after 1-methyl-4phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and L-DOPA
treatment. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) shows parkinsonian motor
deficits after MPTP administration, and we now report dyskinesias occurring in
this species during chronic L-DOPA exposure. Marmosets rendered chronically
parkinsonian after MPTP administration were treated orally with L-DOPA plus
carbidopa for 3 weeks. After several days the animals began to display chorea,
choreoathetosis, and dystonia. The severity of dyskinesias varied between the
animals, with the most severely parkinsonian animals displaying the most
dyskinetic movements. Each animal showed an idiosyncratic pattern of dyskinesias,
which was highly reproducible. These L-DOPA-primed animals also received other D2
D1, and mixed D1/D2 agonist drugs. Quinpirole, bromocriptine, pergolide,
apomorphine, and A-77636 all produce dyskinesias that were identical in character
to those seen after L-DOPA administration, but the D1 agonist A-77636 gradually
abolished dyskinesias while preserving its antiparkinsonian activity. The
MPTP-treated marmoset provides a useful model in which to study dyskinesias in
Parkinson's disease and to examine new therapeutic strategies aimed at
alleviating this common side effect of chronic dopamine replacement therapy.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.870100606 
PMID: 8749992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

