

387. Cereb Cortex. 2020 Apr 14;30(4):2658-2672. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhz267.

Motion Perception in the Common Marmoset.

Cloherty SL(1)(2), Yates JL(1), Graf D(1), DeAngelis GC(1), Mitchell JF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, University of Rochester, New York,
NY 14627, USA.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC 3800, Australia.

Visual motion processing is a well-established model system for studying neural
population codes in primates. The common marmoset, a small new world primate,
offers unparalleled opportunities to probe these population codes in key motion
processing areas, such as cortical areas MT and MST, because these areas are
accessible for imaging and recording at the cortical surface. However, little is 
currently known about the perceptual abilities of the marmoset. Here, we
introduce a paradigm for studying motion perception in the marmoset and compare
their psychophysical performance with human observers. We trained two marmosets
to perform a motion estimation task in which they provided an analog report of
their perceived direction of motion with an eye movement to a ring that
surrounded the motion stimulus. Marmosets and humans exhibited similar trade-offs
in speed versus accuracy: errors were larger and reaction times were longer as
the strength of the motion signal was reduced. Reverse correlation on the
temporal fluctuations in motion direction revealed that both species exhibited
short integration windows; however, marmosets had substantially less nondecision 
time than humans. Our results provide the first quantification of motion
perception in the marmoset and demonstrate several advantages to using analog
estimation tasks.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhz267 
PMCID: PMC7174995
PMID: 31828299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

