

3872. Am J Physiol. 1995 Oct;269(4 Pt 2):H1221-8.

Captopril-induced hypotension is inhibited by the bradykinin blocker HOE-140 in
Na(+)-depleted marmosets.

Panzenbeck MJ(1), Loughnan CL, Madwed JB, Winquist RJ, Fogal SE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunological Diseases, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals,
Ridgefield, Connecticut 06877, USA.

Inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibits formation of
angiotensin II and, by inhibition of kinin metabolism, may also increase vascular
bradykinin. The present experiments were done in sodium-depleted, conscious,
unrestrained marmosets (n = 5-11) to examine the contribution of bradykinin to
ACE inhibitor-induced hypotension. Aortic blood pressure and heart rate (HR) were
monitored via telemetry. After sodium depletion (low-sodium diet and furosemide),
captopril (1 mg/kg po) caused a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in mean arterial 
blood pressure (MABP) (-34 +/- 3 mmHg, maximally, from 79 +/- 2 mmHg) but no
change in HR compared with vehicle treatment. The bradykinin receptor antagonist 
HOE-140 (1 mg/kg sc) significantly inhibited the hypotensive response to
captopril and caused marked tachycardia (+133 +/- 14 beats/min from 214 +/- 8
beats/min). HOE-140 (1 mg/kg sc) followed by vehicle administration had no effect
on MABP but increased HR similarly. The hypotensive response to captopril was
inhibited by HOE-140 regardless of the order of administration or the route of
captopril administration (by mouth vs. subcutaneously). The hypotensive response 
to a renin inhibitor, A-72517 (3 mg/kg sc), was not inhibited by prior HOE-140
administration despite a similar HOE-140-induced tachycardia. These data suggest 
that the hypotensive effect of captopril in sodium-depleted, conscious marmosets 
is dependent on functional bradykinin B2 receptors. Also, blockade of B2
receptors uncovers marked tachycardia in this model, suggesting a tonic effect of
bradykinin on control of HR in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.1995.269.4.H1221 
PMID: 7485552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

