

3873. J Biol Chem. 1995 Sep 15;270(37):21539-44.

Eosinophil cationic protein and eosinophil-derived neurotoxin. Evolution of novel
function in a primate ribonuclease gene family.

Rosenberg HF(1), Dyer KD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Host Defenses, NIAID, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Maryland 20892, USA.

Erratum in
    J Biol Chem. 1995 Dec 15;270(50):30234.

Human eosinophil-derived neurotoxin (EDN) and eosinophil cationic protein (ECP)
are members of a unique subfamily of rapidly evolving primate ribonuclease genes 
that emerged via a gene duplication event occurring after the divergence of Old
World from New World monkeys (Rosenberg, H. F., Dyer, K. D., Tiffany, H. L., and 
Gonzalez, M. (1995) Nature Genet. 10, 219-223). In this work, we studied the
activity of the protein encoded by the EDN/ECP homolog of the New World monkey,
Saguinus oedipus (marmoset), a representative of the "ancestral" single
sequences. Although the nucleotide sequence of the single marmoset gene (mEDN)
was equally homologous (82%) to both human genes, the encoded amino acid
sequence, calculated isoelectric point, and immunoreactivity all suggested a
closer relationship with EDN. Furthermore, mEDN (at 0.3-1.0 microM
concentrations) had no measurable anti-staphylococcal activity, suggesting
functional as well as structural similarity to EDN. However, with yeast tRNA as
substrate, mEDN had significantly less ribonuclease activity than EDN; Michaelis 
constants were nearly identical (Km (mEDN) = 0.67 microM; Km (EDN) = 0.70
microM), while turnover numbers differed by a factor of 100 (kcat (mEDN) = 0.91
s-1; kcat (EDN) = 0.64 x 10(-2) s-1). Thus, evolutionary constraints appear to
have promoted two novel functions: increased cationicity/toxicity (ECP) and
enhanced ribonuclease activity (EDN). The latter result is particularly
intriguing, as it suggests a crucial role for ribonuclease activity in the (as
yet to be determined) physiologic function of EDN.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.270.37.21539 
PMID: 7665566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

