

3884. Tissue Cell. 1995 Aug;27(4):467-81.

Assessment of tissue integrity, ultrastructure and steroidogenic activity of
corpora lutea of the marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus, following in vitro
microdialysis.

Fehrenbach A(1), Einspanier A, Nicksch E, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen.

Microdialysis of marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) corpora lutea in vitro was
evaluated regarding morphology, activity of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid-dehydrogenase
(3 beta-HSD) and progesterone (P) secretion. Two different dialysis media were
used: an unbuffered ringer solution and Krebs-Henseleit buffer gassed with
carbogenium. Additionally, the effects of the luteotrophin prostaglandin E2
(PGE2) on P secretion were examined for both media. In general 3 zones of tissue 
according to the maintenance of cellular integrity could be identified after
dialysis. Structurally intact cells were found in close vicinity to the dialysis 
tubing or the bathing medium after 8 h of perfusion. These 2 zones were separated
by a sheet of cells which showed signs of ischemic injury and whose activity of
3-beta-HSD was reduced. During dialysis with ringer solution P release stayed
constantly high for a longer period of time than with Krebs buffer. With both
media PGE2 stimulated P release but could not prevent the decrease in P
production during dialysis with Krebs buffer. In general profiles of baseline
secretion, were more stable after treatment than for untreated corpora lutea.
There, under dialysis with ringer solution, the ultrastructure of cells close to 
the dialysis tubing was well preserved exhibiting euchromatic nuclei, tubular sER
and numerous mitochondria gathered in the perinuclear region. In contrast, with
Krebs buffer heterochromatization of nuclei and vesiculation of smooth
endoplasmic reticulum prevailed. After application of PGE2 no histological and
ultrastructural differences could be found between tissue dialysed with ringer or
Krebs buffer. In these specimens the sER of zone A cells generally appeared
vesiculated. Our results indicate (1) a close structure-function relationship of 
luteal cells in the tested system, (2) the suitability of the system to study
intra-luteal regulation and (3) the necessity to control structural integrity of 
the dialysed tissue.

DOI: 10.1016/s0040-8166(95)80067-0 
PMID: 7570579  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

