

3890. Acta Histochem. 1995 Jul;97(3):313-20.

Alpha-NADPH appears to be primarily oxidized by the NADPH-diaphorase activity of 
nitric oxide synthase (NOS).

Grozdanovic Z(1), Gossrau R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

Biochemical studies have shown that the NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity of
nitric oxide synthase (NOS) represents only a part of the total cellular
diaphorase pool. Histochemically, NADPH-d activity can be demonstrated in cells
expressing no constitutive NOS. Therefore, attempts aimed to improve the
specificity of the NADPH-d reaction are currently being undertaken. In this
study, the effect of replacing the natural and common diaphorase substrate
beta-NADPH with the artificial stereoisomer alpha-NADPH on the extent of NADPH-d 
staining was examined. When beta-NADPH served as the substrate, discrete
populations of central and peripheral neurons as well as numerous non-neural
cells in many organs of common laboratory rodents (mouse, rat, gerbil, hamster,
guinea pig) and marmosets were found to generate formazan. Substitution of
alpha-NADPH for beta-NADPH resulted in reduced staining intensity of nerve cells 
and muscle fibers. Furthermore, alpha-NADPH-d staining of macula densa cells,
enterocytes and granulocytes varied according to the species examined. No
reaction was observed in most other cells which stained positively for
beta-NADPH-d activity. Examination of adjacent sections, incubated for the
demonstration of NOS-immunoreactivity, revealed that alpha-NADPH-d activity and
NOS immunostaining are strictly colocalized in neurons, striated muscle fibers
and, species-dependently, in macula densa cells. It can thus be concluded that,
with the exception of gut granulocytes, alpha-NADPH is primarily metabolized by
the reductase activity of NOS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0065-1281(11)80196-0 
PMID: 8525790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

