

3904. Biol Reprod. 1995 Jun;52(6):1234-43.

Meiotic competence of marmoset monkey oocytes is related to follicle size and
oocyte-somatic cell associations.

Gilchrist RB(1), Nayudu PL, Nowshari MA, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

This study was conducted to investigate the relationships between oocyte meiotic 
competence, follicle size, and occyte-somatic cell associations in the marmoset
monkey (Callithrix jacchus). Follicles were excised from ovaries of nonstimulated
adult cyclic females (n = 6) collected on Day 7 of the follicular phase.
Follicles were separated into size groups: large preantral (260-400 microns),
periantral (420-640 microns), small antral (660-1000 microns), large antral
(1020-2000 microns), and preovulatory (> 2000 microns). Partially naked and
cumulus/granulosa-enclosed oocytes (n = 473) were released from follicles and
cultured in Waymouth's medium with 10% fetal calf serum, 1 microgram/ml human (h)
FSH, and 10 micrograms/ml hLH. Somatic cells remaining after 46 h were removed,
and oocytes were fixed after 48 h and mounted for viewing. Chromatin staining and
microtubulin fluorescence labeling were used to assess progression of meiotic
maturation and spindle normality. The follicle size distribution and
oocytesomatic cell associations are reported. Competencies of oocytes to achieve 
germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD) and metaphase II (MII) increased significantly 
(p < 0.001) with follicular size but not with the association of somatic cells.
Marmoset oocytes from antral follicles resumed (GVBD) and completed (MII) meiotic
maturation with high frequencies (98% and 72%, respectively), with no significant
differences among size groups of antral follicles. GVBD competence was virtually 
absent in oocytes from preantral follicles (2%) and was acquired coincidentally
with antrum formation (60%), although MII competence was attained after the
completion of antrum formation. Partially naked oocytes from small antral
follicles matured with a high incidence of spindle and meiotic abnormalities
(44%). Marmoset oocyte meiotic competencies are notably higher than in any other 
nonhuman primate species studied, and a possible explanation for this phenomenon 
in relation to the stage of antrum formation is offered.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod52.6.1234 
PMID: 7632831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

