

3908. J Morphol. 1995 Jun;224(3):351-68.

Comparative and functional myology of the prehensile tail in New World monkeys.

Lemelin P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Program in Anthropological Sciences, State University of New York at Stony
Brook 11794-4364, USA.

The caudal myology of prehensile-tailed monkeys (Cebus apella, Alouatta palliata,
Alouatta seniculus, Lagothrix lagotricha, and Ateles paniscus) and
nonprehensile-tailed primates (Eulemur fulvus, Aotus trivirgatus, Callithrix
jacchus, Pithecia pithecia, Saimiri sciureus, Macaca fascicularis, and
Cercopithecus aethiops) was examined and compared in order to identify muscular
differences that correlate with osteological features diagnostic of tail
prehensility. In addition, electrophysiological stimulation was carried out on
different segments of the intertransversarii caudae muscle of an adult spider
monkey (Ateles geoffroyi) to assess their action on the prehensile tail. Several 
important muscular differences characterize the prehensile tail of New World
monkeys compared to the nonprehensile tail of other primates. In atelines and
Cebus, the mass of extensor caudae lateralis and flexor caudae longus muscles is 
more uniform along the tail, and their long tendons cross a small number of
vertebrae before insertion. Also, prehensile-tailed monkeys, especially atelines,
are characterized by well-developed flexor and intertransversarii caudae muscles 
compared to nonprehensile-tailed primates. Finally, Ateles possesses a bulkier
abductor caudae medialis and a more cranial origin for the first segment of
intertransversarii caudae than do other prehensile-tailed platyrrhines. These
myological differences between nonprehensile-tailed and prehensile-tailed
primates, and among prehensile-tailed monkeys, agree with published osteological 
and behavioral data. Caudal myological similarities and differences found in
Cebus and atelines, combined with tail-use data from the literature, support the 
hypothesis that prehensile tails evolved in parallel in Cebus and atelines.

DOI: 10.1002/jmor.1052240308 
PMID: 7595958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

