

3909. Placenta. 1995 Jun;16(4):335-46.

Differential distribution of mRNA for the alpha- and beta-subunits of chorionic
gonadotrophin in the implantation stage blastocyst of the marmoset monkey.

Lopata A(1), Berka J, Simula A, Norman R, Otani T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Melbourne, Royal
Women's Hospital, Carlton, Victoria.

Erratum in
    Placenta 1995 Sep;16(6):567.

We studied the expression of mRNA encoding the alpha- and beta-subunits of
marmoset chorionic gonadotrophin (mCG) in implantation stage blastocysts and in a
trophoblastic cell line derived from such blastocysts. In this investigation in
situ hybridization was carried out using digoxygenin-labelled riboprobes to
localize the subunit transcripts. The trophoblastic cell line, known to secrete
bioactive mCG, was used as a positive control. Marmoset uterine embryos were
cultured to hatched blastocysts and following growth on Matrigel or plastic were 
processed for in situ hybridization at developmental stages ranging from 13-15
days post-conception. In serial sections mCG-beta mRNA was detected mainly in
polar trophoblast. The mRNA for mCG-alpha was expressed more uniformly in polar
and mural trophoblast. Transcripts for the beta-subunit were not expressed, or
present as weak signals, in the inner cell mass (ICM) and endoderm. However, low 
levels of mRNA for mCG-alpha were detected in the ICM and visceral endoderm. We
have concluded that mRNA for mCG-beta was primarily localized to patches of
syncytiotrophoblast at the embryonic pole and sparsely distributed in mural
trophoblast, while the transcripts for mCG-alpha were distributed more uniformly 
in differentiating cytotrophoblast and syncytium, and at much lower levels in ICM
and early endoderm.

DOI: 10.1016/0143-4004(95)90091-8 
PMID: 7567796  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

