

3913. Blood Press. 1995 May;4(3):177-86.

Fish oils modulate blood pressure and vascular contractility in the rat and
vascular contractility in the primate.

Mano MT(1), Bexis S, Abeywardena MY, McMurchie EJ, King RA, Smith RM, Head RJ.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Adelaide, Australia.

The effect of dietary fish oils on development of hypertension and vascular
response in vitro were studied in rats and a primate. Dietary fish oils (MaxEPA
and an n-3 ethyl ester concentrate of higher EPA and DHA content) were
administered to spontaneously hypertensive (SHR), stroke-prone spontaneously
hypertensive (SHR-SP) and a backcross of SHR and Wistar Kyoto (SHR/WKY) rats from
4-16 weeks of age. Blood pressure was monitored during the feeding period and
vascular responses measured in the aorta and mesenteric vascular bed in vitro.
Depending on the strain of rat used and the composition of the fish oil the
attenuation in blood pressure was 10-26 mmHg. Fish oils attenuated the response
mediated by sympathetic nerve stimulation or intralumenal norepinephrine in the
perfused mesenteric vascular bed preparation from the SHR. This attenuation was
more pronounced for fish oils enriched with eicosapentaenoic acid and
docosahexaenoic acid and was more prominent in the SHR and SHR/WKY backcross than
it was in the SHR-SP. Prostanoid synthesis or nitric oxide modulation of
alpha-adrenoceptor responses were shown not to be involved in the attenuation of 
vascular responses produced by fish oil. The maximum contraction of aortic ring
preparations in response to norepinephrine (NE) was significantly smaller in SHR 
than WKY rats fed olive oil and for SHR rats maintained on fish oils the
contraction was close to WKY olive oil values. Evidence was obtained also for a
modulation of vasoconstrictor responses by dietary fish oils in the perfused
mesenteric bed of the marmoset monkey.

DOI: 10.3109/08037059509077591 
PMID: 7670652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

