

3914. Eur J Pharmacol. 1995 Apr 24;277(2-3):235-41.

Short- and long-term changes in striatal and extrastriatal dopamine uptake sites 
in the MPTP-treated common marmoset.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Milkowski NA, Smith LA, Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, UK.

The 'short-term' (15-30 days) and 'long-term' (18-42 months) effects of the
systemic administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on
[3H]mazindol binding to dopamine uptake sites was investigated in the common
marmoset. In the 'short-term' MPTP-treated group, [3H]mazindol binding was
reduced in the caudate-putamen (by -82 to -98% with respect to controls),
substantia nigra pars compacta (-71 to -84%), ventral tegmental area (-72%) and
nucleus accumbens (-54%). [3H]Mazindol binding in the globus pallidus, frontal
cortex and substantia nigra pars reticulata was much lower and was unaffected by 
MPTP treatment. In the 'long-term' MPTP-treated group [3H]mazindol binding was
still greatly reduced in the substantia nigra pars compacta (by -76 to -89%),
ventral tegmental area (-71%) and most of the caudate-putamen (-69 to -98%),
although the reduction in [3H]mazindol binding in the nucleus accumbens (-27%)
and rostroventral caudate nucleus (-69%) was less than in the 'short-term'
MPTP-treated group. The motor deficits induced by MPTP treatment in the common
marmoset are largely reversible with increasing survival times (Ueki et al.,
1989, Neuropharmacology 28, 1089). In the present study, the apparent 'recovery' 
in [3H]mazindol binding in the rostroventral caudate nucleus and nucleus
accumbens may indicate regeneration of dopamine neurone terminals in these
regions and this may contribute to the behavioural recovery seen in this primate 
model of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(95)00086-z 
PMID: 7493614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

