

3917. J Gen Virol. 1995 Apr;76 ( Pt 4):779-90.

The role of repetitive DNA sequences in the size variation of Epstein-Barr virus 
(EBV) nuclear antigens, and the identification of different EBV isolates using
RFLP and PCR analysis.

Falk K(1), Gratama JW, Rowe M, Zou JZ, Khanim F, Young LS, Oosterveer MA, Ernberg
I.

Author information: 
(1)Microbiology and Tumorbiology Center, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
kerstin.falk@mtc.ki.se

The six Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) nuclear antigen proteins (EBNA-1-6) show
characteristic size variations between different virus isolates; this is a
feature that has been used to identify the source of virus isolates in
epidemiological studies (Ebnotyping). We have now studied the correlation between
restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) within exons coding for the
EBNAs and the molecular masses of the respective proteins. The B95-8 EBV strain
was used as the prototype virus. The variation in apparent molecular mass of
EBNA-1, -3 and -6 correlated positively with the size of RFLP coding for repeat
sequences in these polypeptides. For EBNA-2, no correlation between apparent
molecular mass and length of the repetitive sequences was found. The EBNA-4
protein showed virtually no variation in apparent molecular mass and RFLP size
across the repeat sequence. Based on the strong correlation between apparent
molecular mass and RFLP size for EBNA-6, we developed an EBNA-6 PCR assay that
discriminated between different isolates of EBV. This assay offers the advantage 
of EBV characterization using uncultured material (e.g. throat washings, blood or
biopsies), thus avoiding the selection against poorly transforming strains that
occurs during establishment of lymphoblastoid cell lines required for Ebnotyping 
at the protein level.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-76-4-779 
PMID: 9049323  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

