

3918. Cell Tissue Res. 1995 Apr;280(1):49-57.

Localisation of the high affinity facilitative glucose transporter protein GLUT 1
in the placenta of human, marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) and rat at
different developmental stages.

Hahn T(1), Hartmann M, Blaschitz A, Skofitsch G, Graf R, Dohr G, Desoye G.

Author information: 
(1)Geburtshilflich-Gynäkologische Universitätsklinik, Karl-Franzens-Universität
Graz, Austria.

In the present study, the facilitative D-glucose transporter protein GLUT 1 was
localised by immunohistochemistry in the placenta of human, marmoset (Callithrix 
jacchus) and rat at different developmental stages. A polyclonal antiserum
against a 13-amino-acid peptide of the GLUT 1 carboxy terminus was used. It
identified a protein of around 50 kDa molecular weight in immunoblotting of the
placental tissues. GLUT 1 was located in the syncytiotrophoblast, in
cytotrophoblast cells and in fetal endothelium. Similar staining patterns, except
in human extravillous cytotrophoblast cells, were observed at all differentiation
stages, despite differences in the internal placental architecture of the
species. In the marmoset placenta, GLUT 1 was undetectable in endothelial cells
of maternal vessels. In rat placentae, trophoblastic giant cells, epithelial
cells of both visceral and parietal yolk sac, yolk sac vessels and the stratum
spongiosum were stained. Reichert's membrane did not immunoreact. Preadsorption
of the antiserum with a 13-amino-acid peptide resulted in the loss of
immunoreactivity. The results suggest that GLUT 1 is a prominent isoform of
glucose transporters in mammalian placentae. It is generally abundant in
placental cell populations bordering on the maternal and fetal circulations and
may therefore facilitate an effective glucose supply to the fetus and placenta.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00304510 
PMID: 7750136  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

