

3919. Ann Neurol. 1995 Apr;37(4):519-30.

Active and passively induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in common 
marmosets: a new model for multiple sclerosis.

Massacesi L(1), Genain CP, Lee-Parritz D, Letvin NL, Canfield D, Hauser SL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco 94143, USA.

A chronic relapsing-remitting form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis
was induced in the common marmoset Callithrix jacchus following a single
immunization with human white matter. Individual animals in this species are born
as natural bone marrow chimeras, allowing transfer of functional T-cell
populations between genetically distinct siblings. The acute disease was
characterized clinically by mild neurological signs. Pathologically, the disease 
was characterized by perivascular mononuclear cell infiltrates, large foci of
primary demyelination, and reactive astrogliosis. No animal displayed
hemorrhagic-necrotic lesions or polymorphonuclear cell infiltrates characteristic
of other acute forms of primate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. A late
spontaneous relapse occurred in each of 2 animals followed for 3 to 12 months
subsequent to recovery from the acute attack. In these animals, chronic lesions
consisted of mononuclear cell infiltrates within large sharply defined areas of
demyelination and astrogliosis, and resembled active plaques of chronic multiple 
sclerosis. Proliferative responses to myelin basic protein but not to myelin
proteolipid protein were present in peripheral blood lymphocytes of immunized
animals. Furthermore, myelin basic protein-reactive T-cell lines derived from
immunized donors induced clinical signs of experimental autoimmune
encephalomyelitis when adoptively transferred into a sibling, indicating that
myelin basic protein-reactive T cells can induce disease in this species. Because
of its clinical and pathological similarity to human multiple sclerosis and the
ability to adoptively transfer experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, this
model system should prove useful in the analysis of the immunological mechanisms 
responsible for autoimmune demyelination in outbred primates.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410370415 
PMID: 7717689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

