

392. Biochem Pharmacol. 2020 Jan;171:113721. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2019.113721. Epub 2019
Nov 18.

The marmoset cytochrome P450 superfamily: Sequence/phylogenetic analyses, genomic
structure, and catalytic function.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(2)Joint Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima-city,
Kagoshima 890-8580, Japan.
(3)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic
address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a New World monkey that has attracted
much attention as a potentially useful primate model for preclinical testing. A
total of 36 marmoset cytochrome P450 (P450) isoforms in the P450 1-51 subfamilies
have been identified and characterized by the application of genome analysis and 
molecular functional characterization. In this mini-review, we provide an
overview of the genomic structures, sequence identities, and substrate
selectivities of marmoset P450s compared with those of human P450s. Based on the 
sequence identity, phylogeny, and genomic organization of marmoset P450s,
orthologous relationships were established between human and marmoset P450s.
Twenty-four members of the marmoset P450 1A, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D, 2E, 3A, 4A, and 4F
subfamilies shared high degrees of homology in terms of cDNA (>89%) and amino
acid sequences (>85%) with the corresponding human P450s; P450 2C76 was among the
exceptions. Phylogenetic analysis using amino acid sequences revealed that
marmoset P450s in the P450 1-51 families were located in the same clades as their
human and macaque P450 homologs. This finding underlines the evolutionary
closeness of marmoset P450s to their human and macaque homologs. Most marmoset
P450 1-4 enzymes catalyzed the typical drug-metabolizing reactions of the
corresponding human P450 homologs, except for some differences of P450 2A6 and
2B6. Consequently, it appears that the substrate specificities of enzymes in the 
P450 1-4 families are generally similar in marmosets and humans. The information 
presented here supports a better understanding of the functional characteristics 
of marmoset P450s and their similarities and differences with human P450s. It is 
hoped that this mini-review will facilitate the successful use of marmosets as
primate models in drug metabolism and pharmacokinetic studies.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2019.113721 
PMID: 31751534  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

