

3921. Anat Rec. 1995 Apr;241(4):469-86.

Culture of marmoset blastocysts on matrigel: a model of differentiation during
the implantation period.

Lopata A(1), Kohlman DJ, Bowes LG, Watkins WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.

BACKGROUND: The objective was to develop an experimental model for studying the
differentiation of trophoblast and inner cell mass (ICM) during the early stages 
of implantation in primates.
METHODS: Marmoset monkey blastocytes were used in these studies. Ovulation was
timed by plasma progesterone assays in ovarian cycles initiated by administering 
a luteolytic agent to mating marmosets. Embryos were recovered from the uterus
usually at the eight-cell stage and cultured in minimum essential medium
containing fetal calf serum, insulin, and transferrin. The embryos that formed
hatched blastocysts by about day 11 after ovulation were transferred for further 
development in Matrigel-coated culture chambers. After 2, 4, and 6 days of
development, two blastocysts were processed at each interval and serially
sectioned for light and electron microscopy.
RESULTS: All blastocysts adhered to the Matrigel at their embryonic pole within
24 hours. Adherent polar cytotrophoblast was differentiating to
syncytiotrophoblast at all time intervals, but syncytium was not detected in
mural trophoblast until day 4 after attachment. By day 2 syncytial microvilli and
processes had penetrated the Matrigel surface, whereas by days 4 and 6
cytotrophoblast that was differentiating to syncytiotrophoblast had invaded the
matrix. Since all blastocysts maintained their structural integrity progressive
differentiation of the ICM, endoderm and presumptive mesoderm was observed. A
small amniotic cavity was observed at 2 days and by 6 days a distinct cavity
separated polarized epiblast and amnion cells. Visceral and parietal endoderm
were present at 2 days, and a completed primary yolk sac was observed by 4 days
after attachment. In all blastocysts a basal lamina lined the inner surface of
mural and polar trophoblast and the basal surface of the differentiating ICM.
CONCLUSIONS: The developmental time sequence of the cultured blastocysts closely 
resembled the time frame reported for marmoset embryos implanting in utero. An
effective model for studying trophoblast invasion and differentiation of
embryonic germ cell layers has been established.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.1092410405 
PMID: 7604962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

