

3922. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1995 Mar;28(3):313-21.

Intragastric infection induced in marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) by a Brazilian
hepatitis A virus (HAF-203).

Vitral CL(1), Marchevsky RS, Yoshida CF, Coelho JM, Gaspar AM, Schatzmayr HG.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Virologia, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.

Several species of non-human primates have been used in studies on experimental
infection with hepatitis A virus (HAV). Attempts to infect a South-American
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) with a Brazilian HAV isolate (HAF-203) are
described here. Four seronegative animals were inoculated intragastrically and
one was sacrificed on day 11, 20, 47 and 62 after infection. One uninfected
animal was included as control. Liver, small intestine, lymph node, spleen and
kidney samples were collected for histological diagnosis and immunocytochemistry 
studies. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST)
serum enzymes and anti-HAV antibodies were monitored by a colorimetric procedure 
(Abbott) and an enzyme immunoassay (ELISA), respectively. Feces were collected
daily for HAV antigen (HAVAg) detection by ELISA. Increased levels of HAVAg were 
detected in hepatocytes 11 days after infection, with a gradual decrease during
the course of infection. Shedding of HAVAg in feces was observed from the late
incubation to the early acute phase (20th day to 47th day after infection). The
end of the incubation period was indicated by the initial increases in serum ALT 
and AST. Severe hepatic lesions such as piecemeal necrosis and bridging necrosis 
were detected during the acute phase, coinciding with the maximum transaminase
levels and the appearance of anti-HAV antibodies. On the 62nd day (convalescent
phase), the hepatic tissue showed evidence of regeneration and the transaminase
values had returned to baselines. The serological, biochemical, antigenic and
histological evidence of hepatitis A was similar to that observed in several
primate models inoculated with other HAV isolates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)


PMID: 8520524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

