

3924. J Lipid Res. 1995 Mar;36(3):451-61.

Control of lipolysis in intra-abdominal fat cells of nonhuman primates:
comparison with humans.

Bousquet-Mélou A(1), Galitzky J, Lafontan M, Berlan M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM), Faculté de
Médecine, Toulouse, France.

The mechanisms that control lipolysis in intra-abdominal fat cells from various
primate species, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), the baboon (Papio papio), and
the macaque (Macaca fascicularis), were compared to those of human intraabdominal
fat cells. Selective beta 1- or beta 2-adrenoceptor agonists induced lipolysis in
all species. Selective beta 3-agonists (BRL 37344, CL 316243, and SR 58611) acted
as partial agonists in marmoset but were inefficient in other primates, including
humans. alpha 2-Adrenoceptor number ([3H]RX 8210002 binding) equalized (baboon)
or exceeded (other primates) beta 1/beta 2-adrenoceptors ([3H]CGP 12177 binding).
Baboon fat cell membranes expressed similar amounts of coupled beta- and alpha
2-adrenoceptors. In all species, norepinephrine- or epinephrine-induced lipolysis
did not reach the lipolytic effect of isoproterenol but their effects were
enhanced after alpha 2-adrenoceptor blockade. N6-phenylisopropyladenosine (PIA)
induced a full antilipolytic effect in baboon, macaque, and human adipocytes
through adenosine receptors ([3H]DPCPX binding). Peptide YY (PYY) weakly
inhibited lipolysis in baboon. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) was inactive
whereas parathyroid hormone (PTH) partially stimulated lipolysis in primates.
Histamine was partially lipolytic in marmoset only. This study emphasizes the
similarities of the mechanisms controlling the lipolysis in nonhuman primate and 
in human adipocytes and suggests that the baboon and the macaque should provide
unique models for the study of the regulation of lipolysis.


PMID: 7775857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

