

3927. Genomics. 1995 Feb 10;25(3):623-9.

The immunoglobulin kappa locus of primates.

Ermert K(1), Mitlöhner H, Schempp W, Zachau HG.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Physiologische Chemie der Universität München, Munich, Germany.

The immunoglobulin kappa genes of nonhuman primates were studied by using
sequence information and hybridization probes derived from the human kappa gene
regions. The following results were obtained: (1) V kappa gene probes of the
three major human kappa subgroups hybridized to restriction nuclease digests of
DNA from the chimpanzees Pan troglodytes (PTR) and Pan paniscus (PPA), the
gorilla Gorilla gorilla (GGO), the orangutan Pongo pygmaeus (PPY), the macaque
Macaca mulatta (MMU), the marmoset Callithrix geoffrei (CGE), and the bushbaby
Galago demidovii (GDE), yielding patterns of decreasing similarity to the
patterns of the human V kappa multigene family. (2) The C kappa gene segments of 
PTR, GGO, and PPY were 99.6, 97, and 93%, respectively, identical in sequence to 
the human C kappa gene. A V kappa gene in PTR, GGO, PPY, and MMU was 98, 96, 96, 
and 95%, respectively, identical to the most C kappa proximal V kappa gene,
called B3. The other two J kappa-C kappa proximal V kappa genes in human, B1 and 
B2, hybridize to restriction fragments of sizes identical to that of DNA from
humans and great apes. (3) The long-range restriction maps of the human (HSA),
PTR, and GGO kappa loci as established by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)
are quite homologous. According to the maps, however, and to hybridization
studies with 11 duplication-differentiating probes, there is only one copy of the
locus in PTR and GGO. This means that the duplication of large parts of the kappa
locus as found in humans occurred after the branch-point of human and great ape
evolution.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0888-7543(95)80003-5 
PMID: 7759095  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

