

3929. J Exp Med. 1995 Feb 1;181(2):503-13.

In vivo expansion of HLA-B35 alloreactive T cells sharing homologous T cell
receptors: evidence for maintenance of an oligoclonally dominated allospecificity
by persistent stimulation with an autologous MHC/peptide complex.

Steinle A(1), Reinhardt C, Jantzer P, Schendel DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Immunology, University of Munich, Germany.

The nature of alloantigens seen by T lymphocytes, in particular the role of
peptides in allorecognition, has been studied intensively whereas knowledge about
the in vivo emergence, diversity, and the structural basis of specificity of
alloreactive T cells is very limited. Here we describe human T cell clones that
recognize HLA-B35 alloantigens in a peptide-dependent manner. TCR sequence
analysis revealed that several of these allospecific clones utilize homologous
TCR: they all express TCRAV2S3J36C1 and TCRBV4S1J2S7C2 chains with highly related
CDR3 sequences. Thus peptide-specific alloreactivity is reflected in homologous
CDR3 sequences in a manner similar to that described for T cells that recognize
nominal peptide/self-MHC complexes. The in vivo frequency of this TCR specificity
was studied in unstimulated PBL of the responding cell donor who was not
sensitized against HLA-B35. The vast majority (approximately 75%) of the VA2S3J36
junctional regions obtained from two samples of PBL, isolated at a 9-yr interval,
encode CDR3 identical or homologous to those of the functionally characterized
HLA-B35 allospecific T cells. These data are most easily explained by a model of 
alloreactivity in which persistent or recurrent exposure to a foreign
peptide/self-MHC complex led to the in vivo expansion and long-term maintenance
of specific T cells that show fortuitous crossrecognition of an HLA-B35/peptide
complex and dominate the alloresponse against HLA-B35.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.181.2.503 
PMCID: PMC2191865
PMID: 7836907  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

