

3932. Mol Cell Probes. 1995 Feb;9(1):1-8.

Molecular identification of two distinct hemagglutinin types of measles virus by 
polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism
(PCR-RFLP).

Saito H(1), Nakagomi O, Morita M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Akita Prefectural Institute of Public Health,
Japan.

Contemporary isolates of measles virus, characterized by their inability to
hemagglutinate, have been shown to possess a hemagglutinin type distinct from
that of classical strains such as the Edmonston strain in that there is a new
glycosylation site at amino acid residue 416. This change abolishes a Sau3Al site
that is found in the corresponding position of the hemagglutination-positive
classical strains. This molecular information prompted us to develop a
restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assay that is capable of
distinguishing these two distinct hemagglutinin types. The assay consists of the 
amplification of a 349-bp segment of the hemagglutinin gene by reverse
transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction and Sau3Al digestion of
this amplification product. The resulting two distinct RFLP patterns identified
the hemagglutinin types with regard to the presence or absence of the potential
new glycosylation site. This assay was applied to determine the relative
frequencies over a 28-year period of these two hemagglutinin types present in the
archival acute serum specimens taken from patients with measles. This study
revealed that strains carrying the classical hemagglutinin type predominated
until the early 1980s when it became completely replaced with strains possessing 
the contemporary hemagglutinin type. Because of its direct applicability to the
clinical specimens avoiding selection bias during cell-culture adaptation, this
assay provides a valuable asset in both clinical laboratory and epidemiological
settings.

DOI: 10.1016/s0890-8508(95)90902-8 
PMID: 7760855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

