

3936. Behav Brain Res. 1995 Jan 23;66(1-2):13-20.

Structural dynamics of synapses and synaptic components.

Wolff JR(1), Laskawi R, Spatz WB, Missler M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

Learning and memory formation are apparently based on cascades of molecular and
cellular processes with increasing time constants (ms to days and weeks), but
even the most long-lasting effects are transient. Memory traces may permanently
modify the behavior (activity patterns, gene expression) of neurons and neuronal 
networks. Therefore the question is raised whether our current view on the
stability of synapses under normal conditions is tenable. Evidence is reviewed
suggesting that as direct or indirect effects of modifications in bioelectrical
activity and chemical trophicity, synapses may be remodeled and removed within
days and weeks, and possibly within hours. Accordingly, species-specific
connectivity patterns are not restricted to the standard architecture of the CNS,
but (morpho-)genetics allow for a considerable number of alternative wiring
patterns, which appear under unusual conditions during ontogenesis and in
adulthood. Our present knowledge suggests that, rather than the formation of
synapses, they are a selective process. Until now there is no direct method of
measuring either synaptic reorganization or the average life span of synapses.
Specific cases, however, allow to estimate synapse turnover during ontogenesis,
at its lowest possible level. Such data suggest that each synapse is on average
remodeled or replaced several to many times during normal developmental, e.g. in 
the cerebral cortex of Marmoset monkeys at the very least 5 to 10 times
(corresponding to 250 million synapses eliminated per hour in area 17!). It is
discussed how the consequences of synapse turnover could be utilized by learning 
processes. Conclusions are followed by an outlook.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-4328(94)00118-y 
PMID: 7755883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

