

3939. Am J Primatol. 1995;36(3):185-200. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350360303.

Development of heterosexual relationships in wied's black tufted-ear marmosets
(Callithrix kuhli).

Schaffner CM(1), Shepherd RE(1), Santos CV(1)(2), French JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Facility, Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska at Omaha.
(2)Departmento Psicologia Experimental, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil.

In tamarins and marmosets, long-term stable sociosexual relationships are formed 
between heterosexual adults, but these "monogamous" relationships are often
formed in groups that contain multiple adults of both sexes. The patterning of
interactions during pair formation may therefore be shaped by this demographic
profile. We evaluated the development of sociosexual relationships in six captive
pairs of Wied's black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix kuhli) during the 80 days 
from the initial day of pairing. Social behavior, sexual behavior and activity
profiles were recorded. Social behaviors, including allogrooming, grooming
solicitation, and intragroup monitoring calls, increased across the four 20-day
time blocks. Males were more responsible than females for maintaining intrapair
proximity during the first 40 days of pairing. Females and males were equally
responsible for intrapair proximity maintenance after this time. The highest
rates of sexual behavior, including copulation and proceptive open mouth
displays, occurred upon pairing and then decreased non-significantly over time.
The results indicate that sexual relationships in callitrichid primates are not
dependent on the prior existence of a social relationship between males and
females. Higher rates of copulation, greater male responsibility for proximity
maintenance, and male initiative in sexual interactions early in pairing are
consistent with a male reproductive strategy in which male-male competition may
be common. © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1995 Wiley-Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350360303 
PMID: 31924092 

