

3943. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1995;395:517-22.

Oxytocin: a follicular luteinisation factor in the marmoset monkey.

Einspanier A(1), Ivell R, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproduction, German Primate Center, GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The distributions of oxytocin (OT) and the oxytocin receptor (OTR) have been
characterised in preovulatory follicles of the marmoset monkey and are described 
in relation to the process of luteinisation using a combination of in vitro and
in vivo techniques, including immunohistochemistry and granulosa cell culture.
Ovaries were collected in the periovulatory phase before and 22h after exogenous 
gonadotropin (hCG) treatment, but prior to ovulation. Before hCG treatment, OT
immunoreactivity (OT-ir) was found mostly in granulosa cells of antral follicles,
especially in the layers nearest the antrum. In contrast, oxytocin receptor
immunoreactivity (OTR-ir) was observed principally in basal granulosa cells of
antral follicles. Progesterone receptor (PR) and 3 beta hydroxysteroid
dehydrogenase (3 beta HSD), markers for luteinisation, were negative for all
ovarian tissues collected before hCG treatment. After hCG treatment, almost all
granulosa cell layers in antral follicles stained positively for both OT-ir and
OTR-ir, most prominently in preovulatory follicles and especially in the cumulus 
oophorus. This increase in staining was associated with an induction of PR and 3 
beta HSD activity in the granulosa cells of preovulatory follicles. OT production
by granulosa cells in culture was stimulated by the addition of hCG, but only in 
cultures derived from preovulatory follicles; whereas FSH was without any effect.
Addition of extrinsic OT to the cultures elicited an increase in progesterone
production only for the granulosa cells derived from preovulatory follicles.
Together, the results of the in vivo and in vitro studies point to an involvement
of OT in the process of leuteinisation in the marmoset monkey.


PMID: 8714008  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

