

3945. J Neural Transm Gen Sect. 1995;101(1-3):65-82.

Short and long-term changes in cerebral [14C]-2-deoxyglucose uptake in the
MPTP-treated marmoset: relationship to locomotor activity.

Gnanalingham KK(1), Milkowski NA, Smith LA, Hunter AJ, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, United Kingdom.

The "short-term" (0.7 +/- 0.1 months post-MPTP) and "long-term" effects (36.7 +/-
4.4 months) of MPTP treatment on motor behaviour and [14C]-2DG uptake were
investigated in the common marmoset. The subcutaneous administration of MPTP
greatly reduced locomotor activity (-94% with respect to controls) and induced
motor disability in the "short-term" MPTP-treated marmoset group. In the
"long-term" MPTP group, MPTP treatment did not significantly affect locomotor
activity (-27% with respect to controls) and there was partial recovery of motor 
disability. In the "short-term" MPTP group, there were increases in [14C]-2DG
uptake in the GPl (+31 to +37%), SNc (+34 to +42%), VTA (+35%), LC (+23%), PPN
(+19%) and in the VA (+19%), VL (+20%) and AM (+17%) thalamic nuclei. [14C]-2DG
uptake was decreased in the STN (-15%). In the "long-term" MPTP group, [14C]-2DG 
uptake was increased in the GPl (+18%), SNc (+27%), VTA (+25%), PPN (+19%),
ventral caudate nucleus (+18 to +23%), NAc (+22%), F.Ctx (+18%) and in the VA
(+34%), VL (+28%), AV (+33%) and AM (+24%) thalamic nuclei. [14C]-2DG uptake was 
unchanged in the STN. The increase in metabolic activity of the surviving DA
neurones and/or the reactive gliosis may account for the initial increase in
[14C]-2DG uptake in the SNc and VTA. On the other hand, in the "long-term"
MPTP-treated animals the increase in [14C]-2DG uptake in the SNc (though less
than in the "short-term" MPTP group), ventral caudate and NAc may reflect the
regenerative changes in the dopaminergic system in these areas. Despite the
behavioural recovery, [14C]-2DG uptake remained elevated in the target areas for 
medial pallidal output (the thalamic nuclei and PPN). However, the attenuation of
the changes in [14C]-2DG uptake in the GPl and STN of "long-term" MPTP-treated
marmosets suggest that the striato-GPl and GPl-STN outputs closely reflect motor 
function in this primate model of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01271546 
PMID: 8695058  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

