

3960. J Appl Toxicol. 1995 Jan-Feb;15(1):19-26.

Preclinical safety studies with recombinant human interleukin 6 (rhIL-6) in the
primate Callithrix jacchus (marmoset): comparison with studies in rats.

Ryffel B(1), Weber M.

Author information: 
(1)University of Zurich, Institute of Toxicology, Switzerland.

The haemopoietic and immunostimulatory properties of recombinant human
interleukin 6 (rhIL-6) might be used clinically in cancer patients. For the
preclinical assessment of the safety of such a therapy, we chose the primate
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) and Wistar rats. Recombinant hIL-6 given to
marmosets at doses of up to 1000 micrograms kg-1 day-1 over 4 and 9 weeks did not
induce fever and was very well tolerated. Haematological alterations included a
sustained two- to threefold increase of thrombocyte counts, peaking at 4 weeks,
as well as an increase in neutrophils and basophils. The number of bone marrow
megakaryocytes at 4 and 9 weeks was not increased, but the ploidy grade was
augmented. An acute-phase protein response was observed within 24 h after the
first IL-6 administration, which reached a maximum after 1 week. The acute-phase 
protein response was not accompanied by functional or morphological signs of
hepatocellular damage. Increased immunoglobulin and soluble IL-2 receptor in the 
serum levels reflected systemic immunostimulation. Recombinant hIL-6 was also
given to rats at 500 micrograms kg-1 day-1 s.c. for 4 weeks, where it induced a
stimulation of thrombopoiesis associated with increased platelet counts within 1 
week. Furthermore, rhIL-6-treated rats had signs of immunostimulation and
increased acute-phase reactants in serum, as in marmosets. There was no evidence 
of renal glomerular or hepatic pathology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jat.2550150106 
PMID: 7538156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

