

3973. J Reprod Fertil. 1994 Nov;102(2):493-500.

Molecular mass and isoelectric properties of pituitary and urinary gonadotrophins
in callitrichid primates.

Rosenbusch J(1), Bellmann A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

In this study, the molecular masses and isoelectric characteristics of pituitary 
LH and FSH in two species of callitrichid primate, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus), were
determined. Comparative data for urine samples from Callithrix jacchus are also
presented. The separation of gonadotrophins from pituitary extracts and urine was
performed under nonreducing conditions using SDS-PAGE and isoelectric focusing
procedures. Hormone activity in gel eluates was determined by in vitro bioassays 
for LH and FSH and by a microtitre plate enzymeimmunoassay for LH. The molecular 
masses of pituitary and urinary proteins were between 36 and 37 kDa for LH and
FSH, and were similar in both species. A dimer form of pituitary LH with a
molecular mass of 33 kDa was also found in the cotton-top tamarin, but not in the
marmoset. Guanidine-HCl dissociation of gonadotrophins from marmoset and tamarin 
pituitaries before electrophoresis gave proteins of 16 and 28 kDa, and 16 and 25 
kDa range, respectively. Isoelectric focusing revealed numerous peaks of
bioactivity for both LH and FSH, indicating the presence of multiple molecular
variants (isoforms) of each hormone. In both species pituitary FSH eluted over a 
narrower and more acidic pH range than LH. Isoelectric focusing profiles for
pituitary and urinary LH in the marmoset were similar (pH range 5.0-8.5), whereas
urinary FSH demonstrated a more acidic profile than the pituitary protein. These 
results give comparative information on the properties of New World primate
gonadotrophins, which should be useful in studies of their physiological action
and in aiding the development of improved reagents and assays for their
detection.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.1020493 
PMID: 7861403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

