

3980. Chronobiol Int. 1994 Oct;11(5):275-84.

Characteristics of the light-induced phase response of circadian activity rhythms
in common marmosets, Callithrix j. jacchus [primates-Cebidae].

Wechselberger E(1), Erkert HG.

Author information: 
(1)Zoologisches Institut/Tierphysiologie, Universität Tübingen, Germany.

Phase-response experiments using 1-h light pulses (LPs) of 1,100 lux applied
under constant dim light of 0.3 lux were conducted with common marmosets,
Callithrix j. jacchus, in order to obtain a complete phase-response curve
established according to the common experimental procedure in a diurnal primate. 
Maximal phase delays of the free-running circadian activity rhythm (-90 min) were
induced by LPs delivered at circadian time (CT) 12; e.g., during the beginning of
the marmosets' rest time, maximal advances (+25 min) were elicited by pulses
administered during the late subjective night at CT 21. In contrast to rodents,
neither regular transient cycles nor regular period responses resulted from LP
applications at different phases. To check whether the underlying period length
affects the phase response in primates as well, the marmosets' circadian timing
system was entrained to 25 h by a light:dark (LD) cycle of 12.5:12.5 h. The 1-h
LPs were delivered during the first circadian cycle produced under constant dim
light after the entraining LD periods. Here, LPs applied at CT 21 led to phase
advances exceeding those measured during the steady-state free run. At CT 12,
minor or no phase delays could be elicited. These findings show that the
phase-shifting effect of LPs on the circadian system of marmosets is similar to
that observed in other diurnal mammals. Some of the results indicate that in this
diurnal primate, LP-induced phase shifts may be mediated in part by a
light-induced increase in locomotor activity (arousal).

DOI: 10.3109/07420529409057243 
PMID: 7828210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

