

3986. J Mol Evol. 1994 Sep;39(3):255-67.

Molecular evolution of interleukin-3.

Burger H(1), Wagemaker G, Leunissen JA, Dorssers LC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dr. Daniel den Hoed Cancer Center/Dijkzigt,
University Hospital Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Chimpanzee, tamarin, and marmoset interleukin-3 (IL-3) genes were cloned,
sequenced, and expressed. Western blot analysis demonstrated that functional
genes were isolated. IL-3 sequences were compared with those of mouse, rat,
rhesus monkey, gibbon, and man. Multiple alignment of the IL-3 coding regions
showed that only a few regions had been conserved during mammalian evolution,
which are likely associated with functional domains of the IL-3 protein.
Substitution rates for the various lineages were calculated and the numbers of
synonymous and nonsynonymous substitutions were estimated separately. Distance
matrices of the IL-3 coding regions were used to construct phylogenetic trees
which revealed large differences in IL-3 evolution rate as well as a more rapid
substitution rate for rodents and a rate slowdown during hominoid evolution.
Extremes were rhesus monkey IL-3, which accumulated few synonymous substitutions,
and gibbon IL-3, which had almost exclusively synonymous substitutions. In rhesus
monkey IL-3, nonsynonymous substitutions outnumbered synonymous substitutions,
which could not be readily explained by a random process of substitutions. We
assume that during evolution of IL-3, the majority of the amino acid replacements
and the impaired interspecies functional cross-reactivity originate from
selection mechanisms with the most likely selective force being the structure of 
the heterodimeric IL.3 cell-surface receptor. Insight into IL-3 architecture and 
structural analysis of the IL-3 receptor are needed to analyze the unusually fast
evolution of IL-3 in more detail.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00160149 
PMID: 7932787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

