

3987. Trop Med Parasitol. 1994 Sep;45(3):272-7.

Animal pharmacokinetics and metabolism of the new antimalarial Ro 42-1611
(arteflene).

Girometta MA(1), Jauch R, Ponelle C, Guenzi A, Wiegand-Chou RC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di Farmacocinetica, Roche S.p.A., Milan, Italy.

Ro 42-1611 (arteflene) is a new synthetic structural analogue of yingzhaosu, a
Chinese traditional herbal drug, now under development for treatment of malaria. 
The in vivo activity of arteflene in a mouse animal model was 4-5 fold higher
after parenteral than after oral administration. Pharmacokinetics of the drug
were investigated in mice, rats, dogs, marmosets and cynomolgus monkeys. Plasma
concentrations of arteflene were determined using a specific HPLC-UV method; the 
limit of quantification was 45 ng/ml using 0.5 ml plasma. The oral
bioavailability was very low and variable (0.6% in mice, 4-5% in rats, 2.5 +/- 1%
in dogs, < or = 0.5% in marmosets and < 0.5% in cynomolgus) as expected from the 
high metabolic clearance and the relative short apparent half-life (1.4-4.7 h).
However, a metabolite (MA) was observed in plasma of all species indicating that 
drug was absorbed but underwent extensive first-pass metabolism. MA was also
detected in samples of human plasma, collected during an oral tolerability study 
in healthy volunteers. After incubation of 14C-arteflene with liver microsomes of
mice, rats, dogs and humans, the same major metabolite was detected and both
samples were identical to Ro 47-6936 which was chemically synthesized as a
reference compound. The in vitro activity of Ro 47-6936 was tested against
Plasmodium falciparum and found to be about 1/4 that of the parent drug.
Therefore, this metabolite makes a significant contribution to the biological
activity in vivo, partially explaining the high activity of arteflene after oral 
administration in spite of its low bioavailability. Moreover, comparison of the
metabolic patterns from human, rat and dog microsomes indicated that the dog is
an appropriate species for toxicological evaluations.


PMID: 7899803  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

