

3988. J Androl. 1994 Sep-Oct;15(5):398-409.

Growth factors (EGF, IGF-I) modulate the morphological differentiation of adult
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Sertoli cells in vitro.

Pretzer D(1), Ghaida JA, Rune GM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universit√§t-Greifswald, Germany.

The effects of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin-like growth factor I
(IGF-I) on mature marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) Sertoli cells in vitro were
investigated using light and electron microscopic and histochemical means. The
morphological data were substantiated by morphometric analysis at the electron
microscopic level. In a bicameral chamber system, cultured Sertoli cells
displayed a high degree of ultrastructural differentiation and exhibited a
polarized appearance. Basally located tight junctions joined adjacent cells. Germ
cells of early stages of development were regularly seen. Under the influence of 
IGF-I, cells developed extensive cell-cell contacts. The surface density of
smooth endoplasmic reticulum was increased. In contrast, the volume density of
lipid inclusions was decreased. The morphological integrity of enclosed germ
cells was maintained for a longer period. With EGF, cells were arranged in loose 
aggregates. Intercellular spaces were widened. The volume density of lipid
inclusions was increased. Germ cells exhibited profound signs of degeneration
early in culture, paralleled by increased development of phagolysosomes and high 
acid-beta-galactosidase activity. Under the influence of either growth factor,
mitochondria displayed a shift from the crista to the tubulo-vesicular type.
Mitochondrial dimensions and the volume density of mitochondrial compartment were
increased. In comparison with control cultures all documented changes were
statistically significant. Our findings indicate that marmoset Sertoli cells are 
target cells for EGF and IGF-I. Moreover, the dynamics of intercellular contacts,
germ cell survival, and morphological indices of lipid and/or steroid metabolism 
seem to be differentially modulated.


PMID: 7860420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

