

399. Cereb Cortex. 2020 Mar 14;30(3):1797-1812. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhz203.

Extensive Connectivity Between the Medial Pulvinar and the Cortex Revealed in the
Marmoset Monkey.

Homman-Ludiye J(1), Mundinano IC(1), Kwan WC(1), Bourne JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia.

The medial pulvinar (PM) is a multimodal associative thalamic nucleus, recently
evolved in primates. PM participates in integrative and modulatory functions,
including directed attention, and consistently exhibits alterations in disorders 
such as schizophrenia and autism. Despite essential cognitive functions, the
cortical inputs to the PM have not been systematically investigated. To date,
less than 20 cortices have been demonstrated to project to PM. The goal of this
study was to establish a comprehensive map of the cortical afferents to PM in the
marmoset monkey. Using a magnetic resonance imaging-guided injection approach, we
reveal 62 discrete cortices projecting to the adult marmoset PM. We confirmed
previously reported connections and identified further projections from discrete 
cortices across the temporal, parietal, retrosplenial-cingulate, prefrontal, and 
orbital lobes. These regions encompass areas recipient of PM efferents,
demonstrating the reciprocity of the PM-cortical connectivity. Moreover, our
results indicate that PM neurones projecting to distinct cortices are
intermingled and form multimodal cell clusters. This microunit organization,
believed to facilitate cross-modal integration, contrasts with the large
functional subdivisions usually observed in thalamic nuclei. Altogether, we
provide the first comprehensive map of PM cortical afferents, an essential
stepping stone in expanding our knowledge of PM and its function.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhz203 
PMID: 31711181  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

