

3994. Int Immunol. 1994 Aug;6(8):1133-42.

3H11, a unique cell surface molecule involved in the function of the CD45RA+
subset of CD4+ cells.

Hirose T(1), Kobata T, Nojima Y, Schlossman SF, Morimoto C.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115.

We have developed a mAb anti-3H11 by immunizing mice with a T cell line derived
from the Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset). Anti-3H11 is reactive with
approximately 48% of unfractionated T cells, 62% of CD4+ cells and 39% of CD8+
cells. Among CD4 cells, anti-3H11 preferentially reacts with the CD45RA+ T cell
subset. The majority of helper activity for pokeweed mitogen (PWM)-driven B cell 
IgG synthesis and T cell response to recall antigen such as tetanus toxoid was
found within the 3H11-CD4 cell population, whereas anti-3H11+CD4+ cells provided 
poor helper function for PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis and were more responsive
to concanavalin A and autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction. Biochemical
characterization showed that anti-3H11 precipitated a single protein band with a 
relative molecular weight of 32,000 from 125I-surface labeled cell lysate.
Biochemical, phenotypic and functional studies revealed that the 3H11 molecule
appeared to be different from previously established molecules on the T cell
surface. Interestingly, addition of anti-3H11 to the combination of CD4 and B
cells in the presence of CD8 cells but not to the combination of CD4 and B cells 
resulted in enhancement of the suppression of PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis.
Moreover, anti-3H11 had a co-mitogenic effect on T cells via the CD2 and CD3
pathways, and this co-mitogenic activity is restricted to the CD45RA+ T cells.
Taken together, our results show that the 3H11 molecule is a novel antigen which 
may play an important role in the activation and function of the CD45RA+ subset
of T cells.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/6.8.1133 
PMID: 7981142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

