

40. J Vet Dent. 2021 Jun;38(2):67-74. doi: 10.1177/08987564211041781.

Oral and Dental Examinations Findings in 15 Zoo Bolivian Squirrel Monkeys
(Saimiri boliviensis) and Black-Tufted Marmosets (Callithrix penicillata).

Žagar Ž(1), Šmalc K(1), Primožič PK(1), Kvapil P(2), Nemec A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dentistry and Oral Surgery Department, Small Animal Clinic, University of
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)ZOO Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

As part of an annual wellness evaluation, we performed oral and dental
examination under general anesthesia in 7 zoo Bolivian squirrel monkeys aged 10
and 15 years, and 8 zoo black-tufted marmosets aged between 1 and 7 years. No
oral discomfort was observed in any animal prior to the procedure. Apart from
dilacerated roots of second mandibular incisor teeth in Bolivian squirrel monkeys
and one case of presumably odontodysplasia in a black-tufted marmoset, no major
variations in number and shape of the present teeth and roots were revealed. All 
15 animals had gingivitis, but periodontitis was only diagnosed in 3 black-tufted
marmosets. Most commonly diagnosed dental pathology in Bolivian squirrel monkeys 
was attrition/abrasion, affecting 11.9% of all teeth, followed by caries, which
was only diagnosed in older animals. Altogether 8 fractured teeth were diagnosed 
in Bolivian squirrel monkeys only, with root fracture being the most common type,
followed by complicated crown fracture and complicated crown-root fracture.
Radiographic signs of endodontic disease were found in 10 teeth in Bolivian
squirrel monkeys and in one nonvital tooth with intact crown in a black-tufted
marmoset. We associated high occurrence of caries in the older Bolivian squirrel 
monkeys with their diet and saliva characteristics of these animals. Lack of any 
periodontitis in Bolivian squirrel monkeys may partially be attributed to
limitations of radiography technique, although squirrel monkeys appear to be far 
less susceptible to naturally occurring periodontitis than marmosets.

DOI: 10.1177/08987564211041781 
PMID: 34821512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

