

4001. J Histochem Cytochem. 1994 Jul;42(7):877-84.

Video image analysis of labile zinc in viable pancreatic islet cells using a
specific fluorescent probe for zinc.

Zalewski PD(1), Millard SH, Forbes IJ, Kapaniris O, Slavotinek A, Betts WH, Ward 
AD, Lincoln SF, Mahadevan I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

We used an intracellular zinc-specific fluorophore, Zinquin, in conjunction with 
fluorescence video image analysis, to reveal labile zinc in pancreatic islet
cells, which concentrate this metal for use in synthesis, storage, and secretion 
of insulin. Zinquin vividly demonstrated zinc in the islet cell secretory
granules, which formed a brightly labeled crescent in the cytoplasm between one
side of the nucleus and the plasma membrane. Lower but still appreciable amounts 
of zinc were detected in the remaining cytoplasm, but there was little labeling
in the nucleus. Fluorescence intensity varied among islet cells, suggesting
differences in zinc content. Their average fluorescence intensity greatly
surpassed that of the surrounding pancreatic acinar cells in frozen sections of
pancreas and in all other types of cell studied, including lymphocytes,
neutrophils, fibroblasts, and erythrocytes. Less labile zinc was detected in
cells of the mouse insulinoma cell line NIT-1, regardless of whether they were
maintained in long-term culture in the presence or absence of exogenous
extracellular zinc. Exposure of islet or insulinoma cells to a high concentration
of glucose or other secretagogue decreased the content of labile zinc. Zinquin
should be a useful probe for revealing changes in zinc homeostasis in islet
B-cells that may be important in their dysfunction and death during diabetes.

DOI: 10.1177/42.7.8014471 
PMID: 8014471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

