

4009. Hypertension. 1994 Jun;23(6 Pt 2):857-60.

Vasoconstrictor action of angiotensin I-convertase and the synthetic substrate
(Pro11,D-Ala12)-angiotensin I.

Mangiapane ML(1), Rauch AL, MacAndrew JT, Ellery SS, Hoover KW, Knight DR,
Johnson HA, Magee WP, Cushing DJ, Buchholz RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases, Pfizer Inc, Groton, CT
06340.

A chymase (also referred to as angiotensin I-convertase) specific for the
conversion of angiotensin (Ang) I to Ang II has been identified in human heart.
This serine protease is also present in dog and marmoset vasculature. We examined
the vasoconstrictor effects of Ang II putatively generated from an
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-resistant convertase synthetic substrate
(SUB) in vivo and in vitro. In marmosets, SUB (7 to 700 micrograms/kg i.v.) or
Ang I (0.1 to 30 micrograms/kg) caused similar dose-dependent increases in mean
arterial pressure (10 to 100 mm Hg) and decreases in heart rate. Pressor effects 
of SUB were slightly attenuated at low (but not high) doses by captopril (CAP, 1 
mg/kg i.v.) and blocked by losartan (5 mg/kg i.v.); in contrast Ang I pressor
effects were substantially blocked by both. In isolated canine superior
mesenteric artery, Ang I-induced contraction was eliminated by losartan and
reduced but not eliminated by 10 mumol/L CAP. When combined with the serine
protease inhibitor chymostatin, CAP eliminated Ang I-induced contraction, but
chymostatin alone had no effect. SUB-induced contraction was not blocked by CAP
but was equally blocked by chymostatin (25 mumol/L) alone or by the combination
of CAP (10 mumol/L) and chymostatin (25 mumol/L); losartan (10 mumol/L)
eliminated SUB-induced responses. Previous studies have suggested that Ang
I-convertase is important for production of Ang II in the heart. Our results are 
consistent with a potential role for Ang I-convertase in the production of Ang II
in the vasculature, resulting in Ang II-mediated vasoconstriction.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.23.6.857 
PMID: 8206618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

