

401. Behav Brain Res. 2020 Feb 3;379:112334. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112334. Epub 2019
Nov 4.

Sex, diurnal variation and retention interval differently affect performance of
marmoset monkeys in a recognition memory task for object location.

Vannuchi CRS(1), Costa CS(1), de Jesus FM(1), Maior RS(2), Barros M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil.
(2)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasília, 70910-900, Brasilia, Brazil; Primate Center, Institute of Biology,
University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasilia,
70910-900 Brasilia, DF, Brazil; Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University 
of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil. Electronic address: mbarros@unb.br.

In the spontaneous object-location (SOL) task, the ability to recognize where
stimuli were located in a past encounter is assessed. Even if widely used in
rodents, several aspects can affect task performance. It is thus important to
assess potentially intervening variables in the new monkey SOL task. Here we
assessed whether sex (male vs. females), circadian time (morning vs. afternoon)
and retention interval (24 vs. 48 h) affect the performance of adult marmosets in
this task. Two identical stimuli were initially explored on a 10-min sample
trial. Thereafter, preferential exploration of the displaced vs. the stationary
object was analyzed on a 10-min test trial. Both sexes similarly explored the
displaced object quicker and longer than the stationary item after a 24 h
inter-trial interval. This response pattern was also seen when males were
similarly assessed in the morning or afternoon. However, males tested after 48 h 
explored both objects equally and after a similar latency, yet spent more time
where the displaced item had been previously located. Task performance was not
related to object exploration during encoding and general activity remained
constant. Therefore, sex and diurnal variation in circadian time had no effect on
this version of the task, whereas place memory naturally decayed after 24 h. Our 
results underscore the importance of alternative task parameters to evaluate
memory decay. Given the widespread use of spontaneous recognition tasks, a more
ecologically-inclined task in monkeys will help translate animal data to clinical
research.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2019.112334 
PMID: 31697981  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

