

4013. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 1994 Jun;74(2):123-31.

The lack of v-src involvement in tumorigenicity of marmoset cells transformed in 
vitro with Rous sarcoma virus.

Marczynska B(1), Khoobyarian N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Illinois at Chicago
60612.

The transformation of nonhuman primate marmoset cells by Rous sarcoma virus of
Schmidt-Ruppin strain (RSV-SR) generates transformants which lack tumorigenicity 
in allo- and xenogeneic hosts. Marmoset cells acquire this property when they are
transformed by RSV rescued from non-tumorigenic allogeneic cells. One of the
rescued RSV, when used to infect marmoset kidney cells in vitro, yielded
transformants which became tumorigenic in adult allogeneic hosts. Cytogenetic and
molecular analyses of transformants revealed progressive genetic changes from
cell diploidy to aneuploidy and from the presence to the loss of v-src during
propagation in vitro. The loss of v-src in transformed cells coincided with the
evolution of aneuploid cell clone with specific marker chromosome (M1). Although 
both early passage diploid and late passage aneuploid transformants were
tumorigenic, the induced tumors originated from different type of cells. Tumors
induced by diploid- and v-src-positive transformants were derived predominantly
from the host cells, while tumors induced by late-passage transformants and with 
deleted v-src originated from an aneuploid cell clone that contained a rearranged
M1 marker chromosome. These results suggest that besides the v-src oncogene,
proviral integration can facilitate chromosomal rearrangements that contribute to
tumorigenic transformation of nonhuman primate cells in vitro.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-4608(94)90010-8 
PMID: 8019956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

