

4016. Biol Reprod. 1994 Jun;50(6):1216-22.

Oxytocin gene expression and oxytocin immunoactivity in the ovary of the common
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Einspanier A(1), Ivell R, Rune G, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, German Primate Centre, GÃ¶ttingen.

Oxytocin was identified in ovaries recovered on Day 5 (+/- 1) of the luteal phase
from three female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). With use of a reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay, expression of mRNA for oxytocin
and oxytocin receptor was detected in both luteal tissue and in the ovarian
remnant. Evidence for ovarian synthesis of oxytocin was provided by
immunohistochemistry, which showed positive staining for oxytocin and neurophysin
in the cytoplasm of the luteal cells. Some luteal cells had a more intensely
stained perinuclear region than others for oxytocin immunoreactivity, whereas the
staining for neurophysin was evenly distributed. Granulosa and theca cells of
antral follicles also showed positive staining for oxytocin immunoreactivity; no 
reactivity was found in fibroblast or endothelial cells. Oxytocin
immunoreactivity was also detected in the luteal tissue of all animals by
immunoassay, with values ranging from 2.8 to 12.1 ng/g wet weight. The oxytocin
concentration for the ovarian remnant was either very low (0.55-0.75 ng/g wet
weight) or nondetectable (< 0.5 ng/g wet weight). Local production of oxytocin
within the ovary was suggested by the measurement of higher oxytocin
concentrations in the blood from ovaries containing corpora lutea compared with
peripheral blood. Collectively, these results provide evidence for ovarian
biosynthesis of oxytocin and suggest the possibility of a paracrine role in the
regulation of primate ovarian function.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod50.6.1216 
PMID: 7521674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

