

4022. Hum Exp Toxicol. 1994 May;13(5):357-68.

Toxicity of a novel HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Owen K(1), Pick CR, Libretto SE, Adams MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Pathology and Toxicology Division, Glaxo Group Research Ltd, Ware,
Hertfordshire, UK.

1. GR95030X, a potent inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A
(HMG-CoA) reductase, was administered daily to marmosets by gavage. In a Maximum 
Repeatable Dose (MRD) study, doses of up to 30 mg kg-1 day-1 were administered
for 49 days. In a chronic study, animals received dosages equivalent to 0, 1,
2.5, 7.5 and 20 mg kg-1 day-1 for 204 or 205 days. Some animals were maintained
without treatment for a recovery period of 29 or 30 days. 2. Clinical signs
included poor coat condition, weakness with impaired coordination, lethargy and
other behavioural changes. There was also alimentary disturbance, and some deaths
occurred at doses of 20 mg kg-1 day-1 and above. 3. Adverse effects upon body
weight were seen although some recovery was apparent after the cessation of
treatment. 4. Serum cholesterol concentrations were reduced. Very large increases
in serum ALT, AST and CK activities were recorded with CK-MM isoenzymes
accounting for 80% or more of the total CK enzyme activity. 5. Treatment was
associated with muscle fibre atrophy and a sarcolemmal response with little
evidence of regeneration. Histological examination revealed vascular changes,
glial proliferation and cell death in the brain, with no consistent distribution.
Alveolar capillary congestion and alveolar proteinosis indicated that there may
have been a reduction in cardiac function. 6. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors have
evident potential to cause myopathy in marmosets. This is believed to be the
first report of such an effect.

DOI: 10.1177/096032719401300512 
PMID: 8043318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

