

4024. Blood. 1994 Apr 15;83(8):2093-102.

Long-term interleukin-6 administration stimulates sustained thrombopoiesis and
acute-phase protein synthesis in a small primate--the marmoset.

Ryffel B(1), Car BD, Woerly G, Weber M, DiPadova F, Kamm√ºller M, Klug S, Neubert 
R, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)University of Zurich, Institute of Toxicology, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.

Interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been ascribed significant roles in both hematopoiesis
and the immune response, although its contribution to host defence as a whole is 
poorly understood. Because short-term IL-6 treatment was previously shown to
stimulate megakaryocytopoiesis, we investigated the effect of long-term
administration of IL-6 on megakaryocytopoiesis and other systemic parameters in
nonhuman primates. We chose a small primate, the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus),
which enabled long-term administration at high doses. Recombinant human IL-6
(rhIL-6) administered at doses of up to 1,000 micrograms/kg/d over 4 and 9 weeks 
caused a sustained twofold to threefold increase of thrombocyte counts, peaking
at 4 weeks. Thrombocyte counts declined thereafter, despite continuing IL-6
administration. The number of bone marrow megakaryocytes at 4 and 9 weeks was not
increased compared with controls, but the ploidy grade was augmented, suggesting 
that IL-6 effects are restricted to mature megakaryocytes in vivo. An acute-phase
protein response was observed within 24 hours after the first IL-6 administration
and reached a maximum after 1 week of IL-6 administration at 25 micrograms/kg.
Serum C-reactive protein, haptoglobin, and ceruloplasmin were increased, whereas 
albumin and transferrin levels declined. The acute-phase protein response was not
associated with any morphologic evidence of hepatocellular damage. The increased 
levels of Ig and soluble IL-2 receptor in the serum levels reflected systemic
immunostimulation. There was no evidence of renal mesangioproliferative
pathology. Antibodies against rhIL-6 developed within 2 weeks, continuously
increasing during the course of the study. High titers of neutralizing antibodies
appeared concomitantly with the decrease in platelet counts and decline in
acute-phase proteins. Therefore, despite the pleiotropic effects of IL-6 observed
in vitro, long-term administration of IL-6 caused a selective and sustained
stimulation of thrombopoiesis in marmosets that was only ablated by the
appearance of neutralizing antibodies, and high doses were well tolerated in
marmosets. A long-term targeting of IL-6 to cells of the megakaryocytic lineage, 
without evoking general toxicity, confirms the potential therapeutic usefulness
of rhIL-6 for the chronic treatment of thrombocytopenic patients.


PMID: 7512839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

