

4025. Nihon Yakurigaku Zasshi. 1994 Apr;103(4):161-73.

[Hypotensive action of human renin inhibitor KRI-1314 in the common marmoset].

[Article in Japanese]

Saitoh H(1), Etoh Y, Murakami M, Kubota T, Miyazaki M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Osaka Medical College, Japan.

The possibility of using KRI-1314, a new cyclohexylnorstatine derivative, as an
antihypertensive drug was examined using common marmosets. KRI-1314 strongly
inhibited plasma renin activity (PRA) in both humans and marmosets, with a 50%
inhibitory concentration of 4.7 x 10(-9) and 6.9 x 10(-9) M, respectively. In
anesthetized marmosets, the increase in both blood pressure and PRA induced by
bolus intravenous injection of RH-renin (0.15 microgram/kg) was suppressed by
constant intravenous infusion of KRI-1314 (0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg/min) in a
dose-dependent manner. In the sustained hypertension induced by continuous
intravenous infusion of RH-renin (0.1 microgram/kg/min), a dose-dependent
hypotensive response was produced by bolus intravenous injection of KRI-1314
(0.03-3 mg/kg). In the sodium-depleted model, whose PRA was increased by a
two-week low-sodium diet coupled with furosemide loading, both intravenous
injection (0.1-3 mg/kg) and oral administration (10 and 30 mg/kg) of KRI-1314 to 
anesthetized and conscious animals, respectively, lowered blood pressure
dose-dependently with PRA suppression. The hypotensive activity of orally
administered KRI-1314 (30 mg/kg) was almost equal to that of orally administered 
captopril (1 mg/kg). KRI-1314 did not affect heart rate in any of the
experiments. These results indicate that the potent human renin inhibitor
KRI-1314 may become an orally effective drug for treating renin-dependent
hypertension.

DOI: 10.1254/fpj.103.161 
PMID: 8175079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

