

403. Hear Res. 2019 Dec;384:107811. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2019.107811. Epub 2019 Oct
9.

Rapid modulations of the vocal structure in marmoset monkeys.

Zhao L(1), Roy S(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA.
Electronic address: xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Humans and some animal species show flexibility in vocal production either
voluntarily or in response to environmental cues. Studies have shown rapid
spectrotemporal changes in speech or vocalizations during altered auditory
feedback in humans, songbirds and bats. Non-human primates, however, have long
been considered lacking the ability to modify spectrotemporal structures of their
vocalizations. Here we tested the ability of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate species to alter spectral and temporal
structures of their species-specific vocalizations in the presence of
perturbation signals. By presenting perturbation noises while marmosets were
vocalizing phee calls, we showed that they were able to change in real-time the
duration or spectral trajectory of an ongoing phee phrase by either terminating
it before its completion, making rapid shifts in fundamental frequency or in some
cases prolonging the duration beyond the natural range of phee calls. In some
animals, we observed fragmented phee calls which were not produced by marmosets
in their natural environment. Interestingly, some perturbation-induced changes
persisted even in the absence of the perturbation noises. These observations
provide further evidence that marmoset monkeys are capable of rapidly modulating 
their vocal structure and suggested potential voluntary vocal control by this
non-human primate species.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2019.107811 
PMID: 31678893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

