

4034. Nutrition. 1994 Mar-Apr;10(2):161-9.

Dietary fats and cardiac arrhythmia in primates.

Charnock JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Glenthorne Laboratories, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
Laboratories, Division of Human Nutrition, South Australia.

Several epidemiological surveys have suggested that an alteration in the habitual
intake of the type rather than the amount of dietary fat may offer a nutritional 
means for a reduction in mortality from severe cardiac arrhythmia which cannot be
achieved at present by the post hoc administration of anti-arrhythmic agents. We 
have examined this possibility in a series of long-term feeding studies with the 
small non-human primate marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus. In both in vitro and 
in vivo studies of the mechanical performance of cardiac muscle we have found
that diets rich in saturated fatty acids promote arrhythmia when the heart is
subjected to pharmacological or ischemic stress. Conversely, diets enriched in
either omega-6 or omega-3 PUFA are beneficial, reducing the vulnerability to
pharmacologically induced dysrhythmia in vitro or ischemic arrhythmia in vivo. In
addition, PUFA enriched diets enhance myocardial performance (left ventricular
ejection fraction and end diastolic volume) and raise the electrical threshold at
which ventricular fibrillation can be induced. These diet-induced changes in
cardiac performance are accompanied by significant alterations in the PUFA
composition of cardiac muscle membranes, and the subsequent production of
myocardial eicosanoids. Both omega-6 and omega-3 PUFA increase the ratio of
myocardial prostacyclin:thromboxane, but omega-3 PUFA is more effective as less
is required to achieve a significant decrease in pro-arrhythmic
thromboxane.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 8025371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

