

4039. Exp Neurol. 1994 Feb;125(2):228-46.

Behavioral assessment of the effects of embryonic nigral grafts in marmosets with
unilateral 6-OHDA lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway.

Annett LE(1), Martel FL, Rogers DC, Ridley RM, Baker HF, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, United
Kingdom.

Grafts of embryonic nigral tissue were made into the striatum of marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) which had previously received a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine
(6-OHDA) lesion of the nigrostriatal bundle. The grafts comprised injections of
cell suspensions prepared from embryonic (74 day) marmoset ventral mesencephalic 
tissue targeted at multiple striatal sites in the caudate nucleus, the putamen,
and the nucleus accumbens on the same side as the initial lesion. A series of
behavioral tests was used to assess the monkeys prior to surgery, following the
6-OHDA lesion, and at regular intervals for 6 months after transplantation
surgery. Lesioned and grafted (n = 6) or lesion alone (n = 4) monkeys were
matched as far as possible with respect to their scores prior to transplantation 
so that explicit graft-derived recovery could be distinguished from any
spontaneous recovery that might occur. Sham-lesioned or unoperated monkeys served
as further controls (n = 5). The grafts were functionally effective as measured
by a reduction, and in some cases a reversal, of spontaneous, amphetamine- and
apomorphine-induced rotation. The reversal of amphetamine-induced rotation
correlated with the number of dopaminergic neurons in the grafts visualized by
tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Successful use of the hands was
restored by the grafts on tasks in which the monkeys reached into tubes to
retrieve food. However, functional recovery was not seen on some other behavioral
tests. In particular, grafts did not influence ipsilateral biases induced by the 
lesion, including the position of the head with respect to the rest of the body, 
hand preference while reaching for food at a conveyor belt, and neglect of
contralateral stimuli either at the conveyor belt or of adhesive labels placed
around the feet. Indeed, the graft group was impaired compared with the lesion
group in the accuracy of reaches at the conveyor belt. Overall, these results
indicate that embryonic nigral grafts can yield a partial recovery from the
symptoms induced by unilateral nigrostriatal lesions in a primate model of
hemiparkinsonism.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.1994.1026 
PMID: 7906227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

