

4040. J Comp Neurol. 1994 Jan 22;339(4):519-34.

Distribution of cytochrome oxidase and parvalbumin in the primary visual cortex
of the adult and neonate monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Spatz WB(1), Illing RB, Weisenhorn DM.

Author information: 
(1)Unit for Morphological Brain Research, Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology,
Freiburg, Germany.

The anatomical distributions of the mitochondrial enzyme cytochrome oxidase (CO) 
and of the calcium binding protein parvalbumin (PV) were studied in the striate
cortex of adult and neonate New World monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). In the adult 
marmoset, both proteins were found in laminar arrangements similar to those
described for the macaque monkey, with prominent bands of PV-like immunoreactive 
(PV-LI) puncta in layers IV and IIIb, and fairly evenly distributed PV-LI
nonpyramidal neurons. Furthermore, the pattern of CO activity in area 17 of the
neonate marmoset was almost identical to the CO pattern described in neonate
macaque and squirrel monkeys. It came, therefore, as a surprise to find that the 
adult pattern of PV-like immunoreactivity (PV-LI) in the marmoset striate cortex 
arises from a neonatal pattern strikingly different from that seen in any
developmental stage of the macaque, or in any other mammal studied so far. In the
deep layers IV through VI of the neonate marmoset, a large number of PV-LI
neurons was stained in bandlike patterns, their number in layers IV and V
exceeding the number of PV-LI neurons present in these layers of the adult
marmoset area 17. Staining of layers IV and VI was restricted to area 17 and
involved nonpyramidal cells and their processes. The stained band of layer V, in 
contrast, continued throughout most of the neocortex. In area 17, an estimated 10
to 20% of the stained cells in layer V exhibited pyramidal shapes. The findings
show that the expression of PV by visual cortical cells occurs before birth and
suggest that the comparatively early onset of PV expression is not dependent on
the onset of textured vision. The exuberant number of stained cells in some
layers, and particularly the staining of pyramidal cells, in the neonate
marmoset, suggest that a considerable number of cells possesses the stainability 
for PV-LI only transiently, i.e., in the marmoset, these cells have a specific
demand for parvalbumin during this phase of their development.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903390405 
PMID: 8144744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

