

4044. Am J Primatol. 1994;34(2):133-143. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350340205.

Relative energetic cost of infant care in small-bodied neotropical primates and
its relation to infant-care patterns.

Tardif SD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville.

Small neotropical primates display an array of infant-care patterns, including
maternal care, paternal care, and care by non-mothers, both male and female. The 
high energetic cost of infant care has frequently been proposed as the primary
determinant of the need for caregivers other than the mother in these species.
This report examines the evidence regarding cost associated with infant care in
Aotus, Callicebus, Saimiri, Callimico, Saguinus and Callithrix genera with adult 
weights of less than 2 kg. The energetic costs of lactation (estimated from
infant growth data) and transport (estimated from relative infant weight and
travel patterns of each species) are lowest for Aotus and Callicebus, highest for
Saguinus and Callithrix (when they rear twins), and intermediate for Saimiri and 
Callimico. When these costs are compared to the extent that mothers relinquish
care to others, there is no clear relation; that is, the energetic cost of infant
care is a relatively poor predictor of the apparent "need" for additional
caregivers. Additional factors are proposed which better explain the infant-care 
patterns displayed by these species; these factors include (1) differences in the
relative cost that infant care places on foraging efficiency. These differences
are proposed to relate to differences in need for concealment as an anti-predator
strategy; (2) differences in availability of suitable helpers; (3) differences in
nursing frequency, such that the smallest, fastest growing species are more
limited in the extent to which mothers may relinquish infant carrying to others. 
© 1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350340205 
PMID: 31936968 

