

4045. Am J Primatol. 1994;33(4):309-315. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350330405.

Karyotype of Callithrix mauesi (Callitrichidae, Primates) and its relations with 
those of C. emiliae and C. jacchus.

Nagamachi CY(1)(2), Pieczarka JC(1)(2), Schwarz M(3), Paiva CMC(1), Barros
RMS(2), Mattevi MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre.
(2)Departamento de Genética, Universidade Federal do Pará. Belém.
(3)Zoobotânica Marco Schwarz, Curitiba, Brasil.

A study was conducted on the most recently described marmoset species, Callithrix
mauesi, and the results obtained were compared to those previously reported for
the karyotypes of C. jacchus and C. emiliae. No mechanism of chromosome
rearrangement differentiates the karyotypes of C. mauesi (2n = 44) and C. emiliae
(2n = 44), which diverge from C. jacchus (2n = 46) by a Robertsonian
translocation and a paracentric inversion. C. mauesi, like C. emiliae, presents
telomeric constitutive heterochromatin in various chromosomes, forming large
heterochromatic blocks in some. This does not occur in C. jacchus, which
basically presents centromeric constitutive heterochromatin. The karyotype of C. 
mauesi differs from that of C. emiliae only by the amount and distribution of
this telomeric constitutive heterochromatin. One of the chromosomes presenting a 
heterochromatic block in C. mauesi is chromosome X, a fact not previously
reported in the Order Primates. The present chromosome data show that C. mauesi
is closer to C. emiliae than to C. jacchus, in agreement with its inclusion in
the C. argentata group. In the present paper, we describe for the first time, at 
the chromosome level, chimerism between fraternal twins of the same sex (XY/XY), 
with the heterochromatic block of pair 2 being the marker. © 1994 Wiley-Liss,
Inc.

Copyright © 1994 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350330405 
PMID: 31936938 

