

4049. Fundam Appl Toxicol. 1994 Jan;22(1):58-64.

Lack of peroxisome proliferation in marmoset liver following treatment with
ciprofibrate for 3 years.

Graham MJ(1), Wilson SA, Winham MA, Spencer AJ, Rees JA, Old SL, Bonner FW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Toxicology, Sterling Winthrop Pharmaceuticals Research Division,
Alnwick, Northumberland, United Kingdom.

The effect of treatment of marmosets with ciprofibrate for 3 years on activities 
of hepatic enzymes, hepatic histomorphology, and ultrastructure were
investigated. Male and female marmosets were dosed with ciprofibrate (2, 10, and 
20 mg/kg) by oral gavage once daily for 3 years. No effect on liver weight
(adjusted for body weight) or liver morphology was observed. The activities of
catalase, glutathione peroxidase, alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase,
benzphetamine N-demethylase, and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase were unaffected by 
treatment with ciprofibrate. Activity of glutathione transferase was increased in
the low dosage group but unaffected in the mid and high dosage groups. Modest
increases in activities of peroxisomal beta-oxidation (2.5-fold, maximal),
carnitine acetyl transferase (1.7-fold, maximal), and carnitine palmitoyl
transferase (2-fold, maximal) were observed. Cytochemical staining and
quantitative image analysis failed to indicate any effect on peroxisomal number, 
size, or volume density. Similarly, there was no increase in lipofuscin
deposition. This study provides data on the effects of a potent peroxisome
proliferator on primate liver following a dosing period much greater than that
used in previously published studies and is further evidence that the marmoset is
relatively insensitive to the well-documented effects that ciprofibrate and other
peroxisome proliferators have on rat liver.

DOI: 10.1006/faat.1994.1008 
PMID: 8125214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

