

4052. Mycopathologia. 1994 Jan;125(1):19-22.

Epidemiological study of sporotrichosis and histoplasmosis in captive Latin
American wild mammals, São Paulo, Brazil.

Costa EO(1), Diniz LS, Netto CF, Arruda C, Dagli ML.

Author information: 
(1)Fac. Medicina Veterinária da Universidade de São Paulo, Dep. Medicina
Preventiva a Saúde Animal-Doenças Infecciosas, Brazil.

Sporotrichosis and histoplasmosis are deep mycosis with a high incidence in human
beings in Brazil. In domestic animals histoplasmosis has been described only in
dogs, but the occurrence of sporotrichosis among domestic animals in Brazil has
been described in dogs, cats, mules and asses. There is also a case of this
disease reported in a chimpanzee (Pan troglodites). The purpose of this research 
was to perform an epidomiological study of these mycoses using delayed
hypersensitivity tests (histoplasmin and sporotrichin) in Latin American wild
mammals. This research was assayed using 96 healthy animals at Parque Zoológico
de São Paulo, Brazil: Primates: 33 Cebus apella--weeping-capuchin and 16
Callithrix jacchus--marmoset; Procyonidae: 37 Nasua nasua--coatimundi and 10
Felidae (Panthera onca--jaguar; Felis pardalis--ocelot Felis wiedii--margay;
Felis tigrina--wild cat). For intradermic tests, the following antigens were
used: Sporothrix schenkii cell suspension (sporotrichin, histoplasmin-filtrate), 
Histoplasma capsulatum cell suspension (histoplasmin), and Histoplasma capsulatum
(polysaccharide). The positivity to histoplasmin was 44.79% (Cebidae 15.15%;
Callithricidae 6.25%; Procyonidae 86.49% and Felidae 50.00%, respectively). With 
respect to sporotrichin, 30.21% (Cebidae 6.06%, Callithricidae 0.0%; Procyonidae 
64.86% and Felidae 30.00% respectively). The pattern of infection is similar to
that shown by human beings and this may suggest that these animals could be
involved in the epidemiologic chain of sporotrichosis and histoplasmosis, the
second most prevalent human deep mycoses in Brazil. It is important to point out 
the absence of similar studies in Latin American wild animals.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01103970 
PMID: 8028639  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

