

4055. Br J Pharmacol. 1994 Jan;111(1):137-44.

Cardiovascular effects of GR117289, a novel angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist.

Hilditch A(1), Hunt AA, Gardner CJ, Twissell DJ, Polley J, Travers A, Drew GM,
Middlemiss D, Ross BC, Robertson MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular & Respiratory Pharmacology, Glaxo Group Research 
Ltd., Ware, Hertfordshire.

1. The effect of GR117289, an angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist, on diastolic
blood pressure (DBP) was determined in angiotensin-dependent and
angiotensin-independent models of hypertension in rats. In addition, the
antagonist profile of GR117289 at angiotensin AT1 receptors was determined in
conscious renal hypertensive rats and conscious normotensive rats, dogs and
marmosets. 2. Intra-arterial and oral administration of GR117289 (0.3-3 mg kg-1, 
i.a.; 1-10 mg kg-1, p.o.) to 6-day left renal artery ligated hypertensive (RALH) 
rats (DBP > 140 mmHg) produced significant, dose-related reductions in DBP with
little apparent effect on heart rate (< 15%). The antihypertensive effect of
GR117289 developed progressively over several hours and with some doses persisted
for 24-48 h after administration. 3. Administration of GR117289 (1 mg kg-1, i.a.)
on 5 consecutive days to RALH rats reduced DBP on each day. The antihypertensive 
effect of GR117289 was not cumulative as DBP had almost returned to base-line
values, 24 h after administration of each dose. 4. A dose of GR117289 (3 mg kg-1,
i.a.), which produced a substantial reduction in DBP (about 70 mmHg) in RALH
rats, was administered to rats in which blood pressure was elevated either by
unilateral renal artery clipping, sustained infusion of angiotensin II (AII),
DOCA-salt administration or genetic inbreeding. GR117289 reduced DBP in rats in
which the renin-angiotensin system was activated by renal artery clipping or AII 
infusion but had little effect in normotensive rats, DOCA-salt rats and SHR. 5.
Systemic administration of All to RALH rats and to normotensive rats, dogs and
marmosets elicited reproducible pressor responses in all species. Systemic or
oral administration of GR1 17289 (3 mg kg-1)inhibited the pressor responses
produced by All, resulting in parallel, rightward displacements of All
dose-response curves.6. Maximal displacements of All dose-response curves
occurred 1 h and 1-7 h after systemic and oral administration, respectively. GR1 
17289 produced a 32-246 fold displacement after systemic administration and a
4-12 fold displacement after oral administration. The effect in dogs was short
lasting after systemic administration but the effect of GRI17289 lasted for up to
24 h in rats and marmosets and for up to 24 h after oral administration in all
species. The antagonist activity appeared specific for angiotensin receptors as
GRi17289 did not inhibit pressor responses to phenylephrine or vasopressin.7.
These experiments demonstrate that GRI 17289 reduces blood pressure in conscious 
hypertensive rats after both systemic and oral administration, and is an
effective antagonist at angiotensin AT1 receptors in conscious rats, dogs and
marmosets.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.1994.tb14035.x 
PMCID: PMC1910000
PMID: 8012689  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

