

4056. Teratog Carcinog Mutagen. 1994;14(3):115-22.

Embryotoxic effects of thalidomide derivatives in the non-human primate
callithrix jacchus. IV. Teratogenicity of micrograms/kg doses of the EM12
enantiomers.

Heger W(1), Schmahl HJ, Klug S, Felies A, Nau H, Merker HJ, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Universitätsklinikum Rudolf 
Virchow, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.

The dose-response of the teratogenic potency of the thalidomide (Thd) derivative 
EM12 was evaluated in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The smallest
daily dose found to be effective was 30 micrograms EM12/kg body wt. This is the
lowest dose of a Thd derivative ever reported to induce severe skeletal
abnormalities. Ten micrograms EM12/kg body wt may be considered the
no-observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL) under the experimental conditions
chosen. The teratogenic potencies of the two EM12 enantiomers were tested at 100 
micrograms/kg body wt, the dose which just induces an almost 100% effect in the
case of the racemate. The S(-)-EM12 was found to induce typical severe limb
abnormalities such as amelia, phocomelia, and radius aplasia, and none of the
exposed fetuses were devoid of skeletal defects. In contrast, only few and minor 
skeletal defects were observed after application of the R(+) enantiomer. Although
a pronounced teratogenic potency of the R(+)-EM12 can now largely be excluded,
these low-dose studies are not sufficient to completely rule out any teratogenic 
potential of this enantiomer, since racemisation to small amounts of the S(-)
form may occur in vivo. Further studies with Thd derivatives which are unable to 
racemise are necessary to prove the assumed complete ineffectiveness of the R(+) 
enantiomers.

DOI: 10.1002/tcm.1770140303 
PMID: 7940403  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

