

4057. Arch Toxicol. 1994;68(10):619-31.

Effects of recombinant human interleukin 6 (rhIL-6) in marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus). 1. General toxicity and hematological changes.

Klug S(1), Neubert R, Stahlmann R, Thiel R, Ryffel B, Car BD, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Universitätsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.

The physiological and toxicological properties of recombinant human interleukin 6
(rhIL-6) were assessed in marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Two experimental
series were performed with daily subcutaneous administration: (a) 5 or 1000
micrograms rhIL-6/kg per day for three weeks and (b) 25, 100 or 500 micrograms
rhIL-6/kg per day for 3 months. RhIL-6 was well tolerated and did not induce
fever or any other non-specific signs of toxicity. The main findings were: (1) A 
two- to threefold increase in platelet counts at 2-4 weeks, which decreased
following further continuous rhIL-6 administration; (2) increase in total white
blood cells between 1 and 4 weeks of administration, including an absolute
increase in granulocytes (including band forms) and basophils. A change in the
number of monocytes was not detected; (3) an increase in total red blood cells,
which peaked at 4 weeks, sustained elevation of red cell distribution width and a
slight decrease in hemoglobin between week 1 and 4, concurrent with a distinct
decrease in mean corpuscular hemoglobin at 4 weeks. This effect persisted for 9
weeks in the 100 micrograms/kg and 500 micrograms/kg groups; (4) decrease in
plasma AST activity and increase in plasma protein concentration after 2 weeks of
treatment; (5) no clinical or biochemical signs of renal glomerular dysfunction; 
(6) RhIL-6 after s.c. administration was detectable in the plasma, peak levels
(mean values +/- SD) of 9.4 +/- 6.3 and 72.4 +/- 7.7 ng/ml were measured after a 
single dose of 100 or 1000 micrograms/kg; (7) antibodies against rhIL-6 developed
within 2 weeks, increased during administration and neutralized the biological
effect of rhIL-6 progressively from 4 to 9 weeks. In conclusion, aside from a
mild anemia, rhIL-6 was well tolerated in marmosets and had a profound and
sustained effect on thrombopoiesis. Due to the formation of neutralizing
antibodies, the chronic biological effect of rhIL-6 is lost in marmosets and
studies beyond 4 weeks are rendered less meaningful. The analyses of antibody
formation, induction of acute phase proteins, histological changes and
alterations on lymphocyte receptors will be reported in two following
publications.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03208341 
PMID: 7857201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

