

407. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2019 Nov 12;116(46):23326-23331. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1909799116. Epub 2019 Oct 28.

Retinotopic specializations of cortical and thalamic inputs to area MT.

Mundinano IC(1), Kwan WC(1), Bourne JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia.
(2)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia james.bourne@monash.edu.

Retinotopic specializations in the ventral visual stream, especially foveal
adaptations, provide primates with high-acuity vision in the central visual
field. However, visual field specializations have not been studied in the dorsal 
visual stream, dedicated to processing visual motion and visually guided
behaviors. To investigate this, we injected retrograde neuronal tracers occupying
the whole visuotopic representation of the middle temporal (MT) visual area in
marmoset monkeys and studied the distribution and morphology of the afferent
primary visual cortex (V1) projections. Contrary to previous reports, we found a 
heterogeneous population of V1-MT projecting neurons distributed in layers 3C and
6. In layer 3C, spiny stellate neurons were distributed mainly in foveal
representations, while pyramidal morphologies were characteristic of peripheral
eccentricities. This primate adaptation of the V1 to MT pathway is arranged in a 
way that we had not previously understood, with abundant stellate projection
neurons in the high-resolution foveal portions, suggesting rapid relay of motion 
information to visual area MT. We also describe that the medial portion of the
inferior pulvinar (PIm), which is the main thalamic input to area MT, shows a
retinotopic organization, likely reflecting the importance of this pathway during
development and the establishment of area MT topography.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1909799116 
PMCID: PMC6859338
PMID: 31659044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.

