

4075. Neuroscience. 1993 Oct;56(4):877-85.

Distribution of seven major neurotransmitter receptors in the striate cortex of
the New World monkey Callithrix jacchus.

Gebhard R(1), Zilles K, Schleicher A, Everitt BJ, Robbins TW, Divac I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroanatomy, University of DÃ¼sseldorf, Germany.

The distribution of seven different binding sites for the transmitters
L-glutamate (L-glutamate binding sites and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor), GABA
(GABAA receptor), noradrenaline (alpha 1 receptor), acetylcholine (muscarinic M1 
and M2 receptors) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine1 receptor) are analysed in
the primary visual cortex (area 17) of the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus,
using quantitative autoradiography. All binding sites show a well-defined laminar
pattern, which changes sharply at the cytoarchitectonic border to area 18. The
quantitative data show that the distribution of different receptors is relatively
invariant across the cortical layers. Almost all receptors show a maximum in
supragranular layers, low densities in layers IVA/IVB and a second maximum in
layer IVC. Statistical analysis of these similarities in laminar distribution
patterns of different receptors (co-distribution) reveals, as in other brain
regions and species, that L-glutamate binding sites are co-distributed with
N-methyl-D-aspartate, GABAA, and muscarinic M1 and M2 receptors. This may reflect
the structural basis of a possible interaction between these receptors and their 
respective transmitters on the level of single cortical layers. Further
co-distributions are found between N-methyl-D-aspartate, GABAA and M1, as well as
between alpha 1 and M1 and finally between M1 and M2 receptors. Since not all
receptors are co-distributed, the similarities in laminar patterns reveal
specific aspects of the neurochemical organization of the cortex when receptors
of different transmitter systems are analysed in the same brain.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(93)90134-2 
PMID: 8284040  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

