

408. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 25;9(1):15292. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-51783-9.

Reflexive gaze following in common marmoset monkeys.

Spadacenta S(1), Dicke PW(2), Thier P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
silvia.spadacenta@uni-tuebingen.de.
(2)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Cognitive
Neurology, Otfried-Müller-Str. 27, 72076, Tübingen, Germany.
thier@uni-tuebingen.de.

The ability to extract the direction of the other's gaze allows us to shift our
attention to an object of interest to the other and to establish joint attention.
By mapping one's own intentions on the object of joint attention, humans develop 
a Theory of (the other's) Mind (TOM), a functional sequence possibly disrupted in
autism. Gaze following of both humans and old world monkeys is orchestrated by
very similar cortical architectures, strongly suggesting homology. Also new world
monkeys, a primate suborder that split from the old world monkey line about 35
million years ago, have complex social structures and one member of this group,
the common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are known to follow human head-gaze.
However, the question is if they use gaze following to establish joint attention 
with conspecifics. Here we show that this is indeed the case. In a free choice
task, head-restrained marmosets prefer objects gazed at by a conspecific and,
moreover, they exhibit considerably shorter choice reaction times for the same
objects. These findings support the assumption of an evolutionarily old domain
specific faculty shared within the primate order and they underline the potential
value of marmosets in studies of normal and disturbed joint attention.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-51783-9 
PMCID: PMC6814856
PMID: 31653910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

