

4080. Biol Reprod. 1993 Sep;49(3):568-76.

Developmental changes in marmoset granulosa cell responsiveness to insulin-like
growth factor-I: interactions with follicle-stimulating hormone and estradiol.

Shaw HJ(1), Boddy SE, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park.

The biological actions of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) on granulosa cell 
steroidogenesis at defined stages of preovulatory follicular development in the
marmoset monkey were examined. Studies were carried out by primary cell culture
of granulosa cells derived from small antral (0.5-1.mm diameter) and large
preovulatory (2-3.mm diameter) follicles collected during the mid-late follicular
phase of the ovarian cycle. IGF-I (0.3-100 ng/ml) had no effect on progesterone
accumulation or aromatase activity during 48-h culture of granulosa cells from
small follicles. Progesterone accumulation by cells from large follicles was also
unaffected by IGF-I over the same time period, although aromatase activity was
stimulated in a dose-dependent manner (18-fold increase over basal levels with a 
maximally stimulatory dose of 30 ng IGF-I/ml). In contrast, granulosa cells from 
small and large follicles responded to IGF-I in terms of both progesterone
accumulation and aromatase activity after longer periods of culture (4 days for
progesterone; 6 days for aromatase). Concurrent treatment of granulosa cells from
small follicles with estradiol (10(-7) M) enhanced the dose-dependent actions of 
IGF-I on both indices of steroidogenesis and advanced the time at which IGF-I
stimulated activity was first detectable. The effects of estradiol on granulosa
cell IGF-I responsiveness were independent of cell number. A synergistic action
of IGF-I on FSH-stimulated granulosa cell steroidogenesis was not
apparent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod49.3.568 
PMID: 8399851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

