

4081. Eur J Immunol. 1993 Sep;23(9):2250-6.

Human immunoglobulin class and IgG subclass regulation: dual action of
interleukin-4.

Kotowicz K(1), Callard RE.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Immunology Unit, Institute of Child Health, London, GB.

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) was used as a polyclonal human B cell mitogen to
investigate the regulation of immunoglobulin class and IgG subclass responses by 
interleukin-4 (IL-4). Activation of tonsillar B cells with EBV resulted in an
early peak of polyclonal immunoglobulin secretion between days 13 and 14
consisting of IgM, IgA, and IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, but not IgE. Addition of
IL-4 to EBV-activated B cells at concentrations of 100 U/ml or greater induced
the production of IgE and enhanced IgG4 secretion, but had no effect, or more
often inhibited the other isotypes. In contrast, low concentrations of IL-4 (1-5 
U/ml) significantly increased the production of IgM, IgA, IgG1, IgG2 and IgG3,
but had no effect on IgG4 or IgE. The increase in immunoglobulin secretion
obtained with low concentrations of IL-4 was found to occur only with
high-density (resting) B cells, suggesting that IL-4 was not functioning simply
as a late-acting differentiation factor. Low concentrations of IL-4 significantly
increased IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, and IgA production by surface (s) IgM+ (sIgG-/sIgA-) 
B cells which is consistent with heavy chain switching. In some experiments,
however, IL-4 enhanced IgM secretion by sIgM+ B cells, and IgA, IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 
by sIgM- B cells, suggesting that it may have an additional B cell
differentiation factor activity which was not isotype specific. The different
effect of IL-4 at high and low concentrations were similar to those observed in B
cell activation experiments, and may be due to the existence of high- and
low-affinity IL-4 receptors.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.1830230930 
PMID: 8396532  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

