

4090. Neuroscience. 1993 Aug;55(3):629-41.

Protective effects of SR 57746A in central and peripheral models of
neurodegenerative disorders in rodents and primates.

Fournier J(1), Steinberg R, Gauthier T, Keane PE, Guzzi U, Coudé FX, Bougault I, 
Maffrand JP, Soubrié P, Le Fur G.

Author information: 
(1)Sanofi Recherche, Toulouse, France.

Compounds possessing neurotrophic properties may represent a possible treatment
for neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. SR 57746A,
1-[2-(naphth-2-yl)ethyl]-4-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)-1,2,5,6- tetrahydropyridine 
hydrochloride, is a new compound with neurotrophic activity in a number of in
vitro preparations. The neurotrophic effects of this compound have been evaluated
in vivo using four distinct rat models of neurodegeneration: transient global
ischaemia produced by a four-vessel occlusion; septohippocampal lesion produced
by injection of vincristine sulphate into the medial septum; sciatic nerve
crushing; and acrylamide-induced peripheral neuropathy. Rats were administered
vehicle or 2.5-10 mg/kg p.o. SR 57746A, after initiation of the degenerative
process, then once daily for 10 days in the first two models, 16 days in the
third and 26 days in the fourth model. Median scores for ischaemia-induced
neuronal damage were reduced by 30-40% by SR 57746A treatment in hippocampal CA1,
CA2, and CA3 regions, and in the dorsal striatum. Twelve days after intraseptal
vincristine administration, there was a marked loss of septohippocampal
cholinergic neurons, as indicated by reduced choline acetyltransferase activity
in both the septum and hippocampus. SR 57746A dose-dependently reversed this
reduction in both areas. These results were confirmed by histoenzymological
evaluation of hippocampal acetylcholinesterase content. SR 57746A also reversed
the loss of hippocampal choline acetyltransferase induced by intraseptal
vincristine in marmosets. Behavioral deficits in these models (exploratory
behaviour in the former and short-term social memory in the latter) were also
significantly reduced by SR 57746A treatment. In the sciatic crush model,
sensorimotor function improved more rapidly in rats treated with 10 mg/kg SR
57746A. In this same model, SR 57746A (10 mg/kg/day) also significantly increased
the length of regenerated nerve eight days after the crush, as measured using the
pinch test. Finally, SR 57746A retarded the onset, reduced the amplitude and
accelerated the recovery of acrylamide-induced peripheral neuropathy. Thus, SR
57746A possesses notable neurotrophic activity in a variety of neurodegenerative 
models in vivo, suggesting that the compound may possess therapeutic potential
for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4522(93)90429-j 
PMID: 8413926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

