

4094. Am J Physiol. 1993 Aug;265(2 Pt 2):R414-9.

Selective retention of essential fatty acids: the role of hepatic
monoacylglycerol acyltransferase.

Xia T(1), Mostafa N, Bhat BG, Florant GL, Coleman RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 27599.

In the suckling rat, chick embryo, and hibernating marmot, fatty acids provide
the major source of energy, and despite the high rate of hepatic beta-oxidation, 
these animals selectively retain long-chain polyunsaturated derivatives of
C18:2n-6 and C18:3n-3. To determine whether the hepatic microsomal activity
monoacylglycerol acyltransferase (MGAT) (EC 2.3.1.22) could provide a mechanism
to selectively acylate monoacylglycerols that contain essential fatty acids, we
tested the ability of MGAT activity from each of the three species to acylate
sn-2-monoC18:1-, sn-2-monoC18:2-, sn-2-monoC18:3-, and sn-2-monoC20:4-glycerols. 
Hepatic MGAT activity acylated sn-2-monoC18:3-glycerol and
sn-2-monoC18:2-glycerol in preference to sn-2-monoC18:1-glycerol in each of the
three different lipolytic animals. MGAT's acyl group specificity could not be
explained by invoking differences in membrane fluidity because the apparent
affinity for sn-2-monoC20:4-glycerol was not increased. Further,
sn-2-monoC18:3-glycerol remained a preferred substrate under assay conditions
when both the C18:3 and C18:1 species were present in equal amounts. As would be 
predicted in the presence of high activity of a selective MGAT, the hepatic
glycerolipids from neonatal rats showed increases in dienoic, trienoic, and C22:6
fatty acids and relative decreases in monoenoic, saturated, and C20:4 fatty
acids. We hypothesize that, during lipolysis, the reacylation of
sn-2-monoacylglycerols by MGAT may provide a mechanism by which essential fatty
acids are retained within specific tissues.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.1993.265.2.R414 
PMID: 8368397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

