

4098. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Jul 20;238(2-3):235-40.

Effects of talipexole on motor behavior in normal and MPTP-treated common
marmosets.

Irifune M(1), Nomoto M, Fukuda T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Kagoshima University, Japan.

Administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP, 0.5
mg/animal i.v. once or twice) to common marmosets induced persistent parkinsonian
motor deficits. The postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptor agonist properties of
talipexole (B-HT 920,
2-amino-6-allyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4H-thiazolo[4,5-d]-azepine), which is believed
to be a dopamine autoreceptor agonist, were examined using normal and
MPTP-treated marmosets and were compared to these properties of bromocriptine, a 
selective dopamine D2 receptor agonist. Talipexole (20-160 micrograms/kg i.p.)
dose dependently increased motor activity and reversed the akinesia and
incoordination of movement in MPTP-treated marmosets. In normal marmosets, higher
doses of talipexole (80-160 micrograms/kg i.p.) produced a dose-dependent
increase in motor activity, while the lowest dose (20 micrograms/kg i.p.)
depressed this activity. These data for talipexole were very similar to those for
bromocriptine. Talipexole had, however, several properties different from those
of bromocriptine; it had a rapid onset of antiparkinsonian activity compared to
bromocriptine; it had more than 25 times as much activity potency as
bromocriptine; a dose of talipexole (80 micrograms/kg i.p.) sufficient to produce
the activity did not induce emesis as strongly as an insufficient dose of
bromocriptine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.). These results suggest that talipexole has
postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptor agonist properties and that these properties of
talipexole may be favorable in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90852-9 
PMID: 8104807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

