

4100. J Comp Neurol. 1993 Jul 1;333(1):53-67.

Pre- and postnatal development of the primary visual cortex of the common
marmoset. II. Formation, remodelling, and elimination of synapses as overlapping 
processes.

Missler M(1), Wolff A, Merker HJ, Wolff JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

During ontogenesis changes in the numerical density of synapses are usually
assumed to depend essentially on variations in the formation of synapses. Only
the final adjustment to adult synapse densities is thought to include the
elimination of synapses in some brain regions of certain species. Here, we focus 
attention on quantitative aspects of synapse elimination throughout development
of area 17 of marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus). Mature synapses, various
precursor forms, and indicators of lysosomal degradation of synapses were
quantitatively analysed by electron microscopy and morphometric methods. A total 
number of about 135 x 10(9) synapses was calculated for area 17 in each adult
hemisphere corresponding to a volume density of 600 x 10(6) synapses/mm3. At 3
months of age, the respective values were 508 x 10(9)/area and 1,159 x 10(6)/mm3,
while at birth these values were 69 x 10(9)/area and 328 x 10(6)/mm3.
Consequently, at least three out of four synapses are eliminated between 3 months
and adulthood. However, the real number of synapses being eliminated during
development is probably much larger if the time course of lysosomal degradation
is additionally taken into account. The frequency of lysosomes in presynaptic
endings is highest before net-elimination of synapses occurs, i.e., between 1 and
3 months. This suggests that lysosomal degradation is not directly responsible
for the majority of synapses removed during ontogenesis but apparently represents
a second mechanism for synapse remodelling and elimination. Thus, it appears from
this study that remodelling and elimination of synapses are quantitatively as
important as their formation, and accompany synaptogenesis from its very onset
onwards.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903330105 
PMID: 8340496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

