

4101. J Comp Neurol. 1993 Jul 1;333(1):41-52.

Pre- and postnatal development of the primary visual cortex of the common
marmoset. I. A changing space for synaptogenesis.

Missler M(1), Eins S, Merker HJ, Rothe H, Wolff JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The primary visual cortex of Callithrix jacchus occupies a large portion of the
occipital neocortex and can be safely delineated from fetal stages onwards. In 20
animals ranging in age from fetal to adult age the morphological development of
area 17 was evaluated and compared with the growth of whole brain, skull, and
head size. Cortical thickness, surface area, and volume of the area were
determined in addition to predominant growth directions. The volume of area 17
approximately doubles between birth (241 mm3) and three months of age (506 mm3). 
This maximum value marks an overshoot in growth (volume: 180%, surface area:
150%, thickness: 122%), which is followed by a considerable reduction before
adult values (100%) are reached. Although these values seem to indicate that the 
overall reduction in size is fairly isometric, growth and regression are locally 
anisometric. For example, layers II-IVc contribute disproportionately to the
overshoot; thickening is less pronounced than tangential growth and follows a
slightly different time course. These data suggest that the developing visual
cortex represents a highly dynamic distribution space for the developing synaptic
junctions which should be taken into account in studies on synaptogenesis. By
comparison it is suggested that this growth dynamic is not restricted to area 17 
but also occurs in some other parts of the cerebral cortex. In contrast, most
subcortical brain regions apparently do not undergo overshoot growth. Structural 
changes of the skull compensate the overshoot in cortex growth, so that head size
increases steadily.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.903330104 
PMID: 8340495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

