

4105. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1993 Jun 23;685:662-86.

Effects of small doses of dioxins on the immune system of marmosets and rats.

Neubert R(1), Stahlmann R, Korte M, van Loveren H, Vos JG, Golor G, Webb JR,
Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Childrens' Hospital (Kaiserin Auguste Victoria Haus), Freie UniversitÃ¤t
Berlin, Germany.

There is no doubt that TCDD is capable of inducing effects on a variety of
components and functions of the immune system in a variety of species. In fact,
such changes seem to belong to the most sensitive variables affected by TCDD.
Some of the biological effects, induced at rather high doses of TCDD exhibiting
general toxicity (> 3 micrograms TCDD/kg body wt), may be considered unspecific
or the result of the pronounced thymus involution. However, other effects (such
as that on lymphocyte subtype patterns in marmosets or a reduced resistance of
mice to influenza viruses) have been reported to occur at dose levels far from
those leading to thymic involution or general toxicity. It should be remembered
that the pathognomonic relevance for man of subtle modifications in the pattern
of lymphocyte surface receptors is largely unknown. Until now, such deviations
are considered rather as biological phenomena than indications or causes of
specific diseases. Nevertheless, such changes represent clear-cut biological
effects induced by TCDD. Since effects of TCDD on components and defined
functions of the immune system have been revealed in several species, it would be
surprising if humans were largely resistant to such effects, but reliable data in
humans with high exposures to defined dioxins verified by an appropriate
quantification of the exposure are scarce as of now. Data published so far have
not revealed pronounced alterations of such variables. However, no studies of
well-defined human populations with quantified body burdens have been performed
with modern methods (such as flow cytometry) analyzing a wide variety of surface 
receptors. Performance of such studies is essential for a better and reliable
risk assessment, and the technology is available. Some of the effects observed
(such as the changes in the pattern of lymphocyte subpopulations) must certainly 
be considered as biological effects induced by TCDD, and the situation is similar
to the induction of hepatic monooxygenases, which are also observable in this
dose range. However, the relevance of such changes with respect to adverse health
effects in humans is presently difficult to judge in the absence of clear-cut
functional deficits demonstrated so far either in vivo or in vitro.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb35931.x 
PMID: 8363273  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

