

4106. Circulation. 1993 Jun;87(6):1979-89.

Specific IK1 blockade: a new antiarrhythmic mechanism? Effect of RP58866 on
ventricular arrhythmias in rat, rabbit, and primate.

Rees SA(1), Curtis MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, King's College, University of London, U.K.

BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of blockade of the inwardly rectifying K+ current
(IK1) in prevention of arrhythmias is unknown. We have examined the
antiarrhythmic potential of a new selective IK1 blocker, RP58866, in rat, rabbit,
and primate (marmoset) isolated hearts in the settings of acute ischemia and
reperfusion.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In concentration-response studies (n = 12 per group), the
drug reduced ischemia-induced ventricular fibrillation (VF) in rat from control
incidence of 100 to 50%, 17% (p < 0.05), and 0% (p < 0.05) at 1, 3, and 10
mumol/L, respectively. RP58866 produced significant bradycardia at the 3- and
10-mumol/L concentrations and significant QT interval widening at all three
concentrations (p < 0.05). When rat hearts (n = 12 per group) were paced (5 Hz)
via the left atrium to prevent bradycardia, the antiarrhythmic effects of
10-mumol/L RP58866 were unmodified (ischemia-induced VF incidence was reduced by 
drug from 83% in control hearts to 8%; p < 0.05). Similarly, pacing did not
prevent the drug's QT-widening activity at 90% repolarization (QT90 was 64 +/- 3 
msec in control hearts versus 128 +/- 17 msec in the presence of 10 mumol/L of
drug after 10 minutes of ischemia; p < 0.05). These values are similar to
equivalent values in unpaced hearts (65 +/- 3 msec in control hearts versus 159
+/- 15 msec with 10 mumol/L of drug; p < 0.05). In separate groups of rat hearts 
(n = 10 per group) subjected to 10 minutes of ischemia, reperfusion-induced VF
incidence was reduced from 90% in control hearts to 10% (p < 0.05), 0% (p <
0.05), and 0% (p < 0.05) by 1-, 3-, and 10-mumol/L RP58866. To examine whether
drug actions were species-specific, we performed further studies in rabbit and
primate using the middle concentration of RP58866 (3 mumol/L). Ischemia-induced
VF incidence was too low in these species to assess the effects of the drug.
However, RP58866 widened QT interval (p < 0.05), slowed heart rate (p < 0.05),
and reduced the incidence of reperfusion-induced VF from 67% to 8% (p < 0.05) in 
rabbit. Furthermore, in the more clinically relevant primate species (marmoset; n
= 9-12 per group), RP58866 (3 mumol/L) abolished ischemia-induced VT (36%
incidence in control hearts; p < 0.05) and significantly reduced the incidence of
ischemia-induced ventricular premature beats from 91% to 33% (p < 0.05). The drug
was also effective against reperfusion VF in primates (incidence reduced from 64%
in control hearts to 11%; p < 0.05). As in rat and rabbit, RP58866 significantly 
widened QT interval in primate and caused bradycardia before and during ischemia.
RP58866 had no significant influence on coronary flow in any species. Finally, in
further studies on rat, QT widening by RP58866 was found to persist relatively
unmodified in nonischemic hearts perfused with solution containing K+ elevated to
8 mmol/L to mimic the early ischemic milieu.
CONCLUSIONS: RP58866, a selective IK1 blocker, is a potent and efficacious new
antiarrhythmic drug in ischemia and reperfusion in rat, rabbit, and primate. When
tested in rat, pharmacological activity was undiminished by cardiac pacing or
elevation of extracellular K+.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.87.6.1979 
PMID: 8504513  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

