

411. Behav Pharmacol. 2020 Feb;31(1):45-60. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000509.

Measurement of baseline locomotion and other behavioral traits in a common
marmoset model of Parkinson's disease established by a single administration
regimen of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine: providing reference data
for efficacious preclinical evaluations.

Ando K(1), Inoue T(1), Hikishima K(1)(2), Komaki Y(1), Kawai K(1), Inoue R(1),
Nishime C(1), Nishinaka E(1), Urano K(1), Okano H(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals (CIEA), Kawasakiku, Kawasaki.
(2)Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology, Graduate University, Kunigami,
Okinawa.
(3)Keio University, School of Medicine, Shinjukuku, Tokyo.
(4)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Brain Science Institute,
Wakoshi, Saitama, Japan.

Baseline locomotion and behavioral traits in the common marmoset Parkinson's
disease model were examined to provide basic information for preclinical
evaluations of medical treatments. A single regimen of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine at a cumulative dose of 5 mg/kg as
the free base over three consecutive days was administered subcutaneously to 10
marmosets. Data obtained from these marmosets were compared to
pre-1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine levels or
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine free marmosets. After the single
regimen, reduced daily locomotion, a measure of immobility (a primary sign of
Parkinsonism), was observed for more than a year. A moving tremor was also
observed by visual inspection during this period. When apomorphine (0.13 mg/kg,
s.c.) was administered, either right or left circling behavior was observed in a 
cylindrical chamber in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine marmosets,
suggestive of unequal neural damage between the two brain hemispheres to
different extents. MRI revealed that T1 relaxation time in the right substantia
nigra correlated with right circling in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine marmosets. Histology was supportive 
of dopaminergic neural loss in the striatum. These results increase our
understanding of the utility and limitations of the Parkinson's disease model in 
marmosets with a single 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine regimen, and
provide reference data for efficacious preclinical evaluations.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000509 
PMCID: PMC6964884
PMID: 31625972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

