

4110. Physiol Behav. 1993 Jun;53(6):1067-76.

Sound levels in rooms housing laboratory animals: an uncontrolled daily variable.

Milligan SR(1), Sales GD, Khirnykh K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biomedical Sciences, King's College, Strand, London, UK.

High sound levels are known to have adverse effects on the behaviour and
physiology of laboratory animals, yet their acoustic environment is rarely
monitored. In particular, high-frequency sounds that are above the limit of human
hearing, but are well within the limits of many laboratory species (i.e.,
ultrasounds), are usually ignored. In this study, the acoustic environment of
laboratory animals was investigated in a variety of different animal facilities. 
Sound pressure levels (dB SPL) were monitored for periods up to 24 h over two
frequency ranges: a relatively low range (0.01-12.5 kHz), and a high range
(12.5-70 kHz). While background sound levels in undisturbed situations were
generally low (i.e., below 50 dB SPL), marked increases in sound levels often
occurred during the working day, producing characteristic daily variations in the
sound profile. Peak SPLs commonly reached values of 80-95 dB in the low-frequency
range and 50-75 dB in the higher range. In most cases, sound levels were low over
weekends. The results suggested that human activities were a very important
source of sound in most animal facilities. In a few situations (e.g., rabbits,
marmosets, dogs), the animals themselves provided a significant contribution to
the acoustic environment. It is clear that the acoustic environment of laboratory
animals is a daily variable that is usually uncontrolled and that may have
important implications for behavioural and physiological experiments and for
animal welfare.

DOI: 10.1016/0031-9384(93)90361-i 
PMID: 8346289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

