

4114. Comp Biochem Physiol Comp Physiol. 1993 Jun;105(2):287-92.

Urinary estradiol-17 beta excretion in common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus:
diurnal pattern and relationship between creatinine-related values and excreted
amount.

Bös A(1), Probst B, Erkert HG.

Author information: 
(1)Zoologisches Institut/Tierphysiologie, Universität Tübingen, Germany.

1. The diurnal pattern of urinary estradiol and creatinine excretion was
investigated in order to evaluate the relationship between total estradiol
excretion per day and the estradiol concentration or the estradiol-to-creatinine 
ratio from single urine samples in female common marmosets (Callithrix j.
jacchus). 2. During a 36-day period, urine was collected from five adult female
marmosets in 3-hr intervals during the light time of an LD 12:12 (400:0.1 lx)
which corresponded to the animals' activity time. 3. Estradiol concentration was 
determined by radioimmunoassay after glucuronidase treatment and creatinine
concentration was measured photometrically. 4. Concentration and amount of
excreted estradiol, and the creatinine concentration showed a distinct diurnal
pattern with significantly higher levels at the beginning of the activity time
compared to later sampling times. 5. No diurnal pattern was present in the
estradiol-to-creatinine ratio, but the difference between lower follicular and
higher luteal phase levels of estradiol excretion remained significant in the
36-day period. 6. Correlation analyses revealed significantly positive
correlations between the total estrogen mass excreted per day and the
estradiol-to-creatinine ratio in "morning urine" samples. 7. Thus the
estradiol-to-creatinine ratio of single urine samples collected at the beginning 
of the activity time provides a reliable estimate of total estrogenic output in
this species. 8. Studies of the circadian pattern of urinary hormone excretion,
however, require total urine sampling.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9629(93)90210-u 
PMID: 8101157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

