

4116. Biol Reprod. 1993 May;48(5):1113-9.

Follicular development and ovulation in the marmoset monkey as determined by
repeated laparoscopic examination.

Tardif SD(1), Lacker HM, Feuer M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville 37996.

This paper describes the course of follicular development in vivo in the marmoset
monkey, the only anthropoid primate with a relatively high (2-4) and variable
ovulation number. Results are presented in relation to predictions from a
mathematical model of control of follicle selection and ovulation number.
Repeated laparoscopic examinations during the follicular phase were conducted for
14 cycles. Ovulatory follicles were 1.0 mm (median) in diameter at Day 6 and
could be distinguished from nonovulatory follicles by Day 8, at which point they 
were 2.0 mm in diameter. Ovulations were not synchronous; the most common
observation 1-2 days after the estradiol peak was ovulation of one follicle but
not the other. Examination of the course of follicular development within a cycle
and the distribution of ovulation sites both supported predictions stemming from 
a mathematical model of follicle selection developed by Lacker et al. [Biol
Reprod 1987; 37:570-580]. Specific findings were the following: 1) Variations in 
patterns of follicle growth within a cycle resembled those generated by the
model; in 64% of cycles, the 2-3 ovulatory follicles grew at similar rates.
However, in 36% of cycles, ovulatory follicles displayed disparate rates of
growth. 2) An examination of the distribution of ovulation sites (right versus
left) revealed no significant difference from a binomial distribution, suggesting
the likelihood that interovarian (rather than intraovarian) factors control this 
distribution.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod48.5.1113 
PMID: 8481474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

