

4129. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 1993 Mar;347(3):306-12.

Anorectic effect and brain concentrations of D-fenfluramine in the marmoset:
relationship to the in vivo and in vitro effects on serotonergic mechanisms.

Caccia S(1), Anelli M, Fracasso C, Frittoli E, Giorcelli P, Gobbi M, Taddei C,
Garattini S, Mennini T.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milan, Italy.

The present study investigated the anorectic activity of d-fenfluramine (d-F) and
the relationship with brain levels of unchanged drug and its metabolite
d-norfenfluramine (d-NF) in marmosets, relating them to neurochemical effects on 
the serotoninergic system. d-F and d-NF were equally active in reducing food
intake (ED50 about 3 mg/kg, p.o.). However, the brain concentrations of the
metabolite required to reduce food intake after synthetic d-NF were more than
twice those after d-F, indicating that d-NF contributes to but does not
completely explain the anorectic effect of d-F. At this dose d-F did not
appreciably modify the serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic (5-HIAA)
contents of the brain regions examined, except for a slight enhancement of 5-HIAA
in hippocampus. In vitro in brain cortical synaptosomes d-F inhibited [3H]5-HT
uptake more potently than d-NF, as in other species. d-F and d-NF showed similar 
potency in stimulating [3H]5-HT release, in a Ca++ dependent manner. The tritium 
released by d-F and d-NF appeared to be mainly unmetabolized [3H]5-HT. Like in
other species the marmoset too has saturable and specific [3H]d-F binding sites, 
for which d-NF has lower affinity. d-F and d-NF have low affinities for 5-HT
receptor subtypes, except that d-NF has appreciable affinity for 5-HT1C and
5-HT1D receptors. Unlike in rodents but similarly to primates in the striatum the
pharmacology of 5-HT receptors seems to correspond to the 5-HT1D
subtype.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00167450 
PMID: 8479546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

