

4130. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 1993 Mar;44(4-6):435-9.

Local regulation of primate granulosa cell aromatase activity.

Hillier SG(1), Mir√≥ F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

Granulosa cells produce inhibin and activin, proteins implicated in the local
regulation of preovulatory follicular development. To assess interactions among
FSH, LH, inhibin and activin on primate granulosa cell aromatase activity, we
studied primary granulosa cell cultures from the ovaries of the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a monkey with an ovarian cycle similar in length to the
human cycle. The distinctive action of activin was augmentation of
gonadotropin-responsive aromatase activity throughout antral follicular
development. FSH-stimulated aromatase activity in granulosa cells from immature
follicles was augmented many fold by picomolar amounts of activin. In cell
cultures from preovulatory follicles, the presence of activin stimulated basal
aromatase activity in the absence of gonadotropin, as well as augmenting the
action of LH. Thus, locally produced activin has the potential to modulate
aromatase activity in developing ovarian follicles. By contrast, inhibin or
inhibin alpha-subunit purified from bovine follicular fluid had minimal effects
on aromatase activity. The only significant effect was slight suppression of
FSH-inducible aromatase activity in granulosa cells from immature follicles at an
inhibin concentration of 100 ng/ml. The finding that inhibin has a negligible
effect on aromatase activity in granulosa cells from mature follicles suggests
that it is unlikely to exert a physiologically significant influence on aromatase
activity in vivo. However, evidence from other studies suggests that inhibin
might affect aromatization indirectly through acting locally to modulate thecal
androgen (aromatase substate) production. Therefore, both inhibin and activin
have the potential to contribute at different levels to paracrine and autocrine
regulation of follicular oestrogen synthesis.

DOI: 10.1016/0960-0760(93)90247-t 
PMID: 8476757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

