

4137. Eur J Orthod. 1993 Feb;15(1):33-44.

A T.E.M. stereological analysis of blood vessels and nerves in marmoset
periodontal ligament following endodontics and magnetic incisor extrusion.

Parlange LM(1), Sims MR.

Author information: 
(1)University of Adelaide, South Australia.

Maxillary incisor fracture is a common dental injury. It is frequently treated by
endodontic therapy, orthodontic extrusion, and a retention period. The aim of the
study was to mimic this regime and stereologically quantify the vascular and
neural reconstitution of the periodontal ligament (PDL). Ten marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) had the right maxillary incisor crown removed, root canal
treatment, and magnetic incisor root extrusion of 1.2 mm. After incisor retention
for 9 weeks, the animals were perfusion fixed for electron microscopy. The
incisor PDL was sectioned at 250 micron intervals from the cervical to apical
region and recorded for stereological evaluation. Further evaluations were
conducted with a two-way analysis of covariance using program 3V of the BMDP-81
statistical software package. The total luminal PDL vascular volume was
statistically unchanged. An increased occurred in the mean number of venous
capillaries from 0.07 +/- 0.3 to 0.17 +/- 0.3 per 560 microns 2 of PDL (P <
0.05). Vessel wall and luminal volume of post-capillary-sized venules decreased
from 1.64 to 1.03 per cent, and 5.32 to 3.04 per cent (P < 0.05), respectively.
Mean luminal and abluminal diameters for post-capillary-sized venules were
reduced (P < 0.05). Myelinated and unmyelinated axons showed no significant
change in volume (Vv), length (Lv), or surface (Sv) densities. Axon number/unit, 
PDL area, and mean diameters demonstrated no statistical differences. Since the
PDL demonstrated almost complete morphological re-establishment of the
microvascular and axon systems, it is considered that this clinical treatment is 
a justifiable rationale.

DOI: 10.1093/ejo/15.1.33 
PMID: 8436195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

