

4140. Eur J Pharmacol. 1993 Jan 12;230(2):177-85.

Age-related effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment of 
common marmosets.

Rose S(1), Nomoto M, Jackson EA, Gibb WR, Jaehnig P, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, King's
College, London, UK.

The effect of treatment with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) 
on juvenile (6-8 months), young adult (2-4 years) and aged (8-10 years) common
marmosets were compared. Juvenile marmosets were more resistant to the actions of
MPTP and required a greater cumulative dose over a longer period to induce the
same degree of motor disability observed in older animals. Young adult and aged
marmosets showed an equivalent motor recovery in the 4-5 weeks following
cessation of MPTP treatment, but juvenile animals were less able to compensate
for the motor impairments. Losses of putamen [3H]dopamine uptake and caudate
nucleus dopamine content were equivalent in young adult and aged animals.
However, juvenile animals showed a more marked degree of dopamine depletion and
reduction in [3H]dopamine uptake. Histological analysis showed cell loss in the
substantia nigra to be most prominent in juvenile animals although it was evident
in all groups. No loss of cells in the locus coeruleus was apparent in any of the
groups studied, and no intraneuronal eosinophilic inclusions were seen. Greater
nigral cell loss and dopamine depletion were required in juvenile animals to
impair motor function. The degree of behavioural recovery was less in juvenile
animals than in young adult and aged marmosets. The extent of behavioural
recovery appeared linked to the severity of cell loss and was not reduced in old 
age.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(93)90800-w 
PMID: 8422900  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

