

4148. Immunogenetics. 1993;38(3):210-22.

Mhc-DRB genes of platyrrhine primates.

Trtková K(1), Kupfermann H, Grahovac B, Mayer WE, O'hUigin C, Tichy H, Bontrop R,
Klein J.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biologie, Abteilung Immungenetik, Tübingen, Germany.

The two infraorders of anthropoid primates, Platyrrhini (New World monkeys) and
Catarrhini (Old World monkeys and the hominoids) are estimated to have diverged
from a common ancestor 37 million years ago. The major histocompatibility complex
class II DRB gene and haplotype polymorphism of the Catarrhini has been
characterized in several recent studies. The present study was undertaken to
obtain information on the DRB polymorphism of the Platyrrhini. Fifty-five
complete exon 2 DRB sequences were obtained from six species of Platyrrhini
representing both the Callitrichidae and the Cebidae families. Combined with the 
results of a parallel contig mapping study, our data indicate that at least three
loci (DRB1*03, DRB3, and DRB5) are shared by the Catarrhini and the Platyrrhini. 
However, the three loci are occupied by functional genes in the former infraorder
and mostly by pseudogenes in the latter. Instead of the pseudogenes, the
Platyrrhini have evolved a new set of apparently functional genes-DRB11 and
DRB*W12 through DRB*W19, which have thus far not been found in the Catarrhini.
The DRB*W13, *W14, *W15, *W17, *W18, and *W19 genes seem to be restricted to the 
Cebidae family, whereas the DRB*W16 locus has so far been documented in the
Callitrichidae family only. The DRB alleles of the cotton-top tamarin, and
perhaps also those of the common marmoset (both members of the family
Callitrichidae), are characterized by low nucleotide diversity, possibly
indicating that they diverged from a common ancestral gene relatively recently.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00211521 
PMID: 8505064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

