

4149. J Reprod Fertil. 1993 Jan;97(1):301-10.

Sensory cues and the suppression of reproduction in subordinate female marmoset
monkeys, Callithrix jacchus.

Barrett J(1), Abbott DH, George LM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology,
Zoological Society of London, UK.

Subordinate female marmoset monkeys remain anovulatory and have low plasma
concentrations of luteinizing hormone (LH) when maintained with their dominant
females. Olfactory cues from the dominant female have been implicated in
maintaining this reproductive suppression. Subordinate females that received
either ablation of the vomeronasal organ (an accessory olfactory organ; n = 3),
ablation of the main olfactory epithelium (n = 4), or both lesions (n = 5) did
not ovulate in the following 7 weeks while housed with their dominant female.
Plasma LH concentrations following either or both lesions were similar to
pre-lesion concentrations. Olfactory lesions (verified by histological and
behavioural trials) did not impair reproductive activity, as olfactory-lesioned
dominant females underwent ovarian cycles of similar duration to intact dominant 
females. Lesioned subordinate females (n = 6), maintained in visual-only contact 
with their dominant female and group ovulated 29.1 +/- 9.3 days (mean +/- SEM)
after physical separation from their dominant females; this first onset of
ovulation was significantly delayed (P < 0.05) compared with intact subordinate
females completely isolated from their dominant females and group (10.8 +/- 1.3
days, n = 8). Behavioural and visual cues together with olfaction all appear to
play important roles in maintaining the suppression of ovulation in subordinate
female marmoset monkeys.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0970301 
PMID: 8464022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

