

4150. Int Rev Exp Pathol. 1993;34 Pt B:73-101.

Comparative pathology of recombinant murine interferon-gamma in mice and
recombinant human interferon-gamma in cynomolgus monkeys.

Terrell TG(1), Green JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Safety Evaluation Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco,
California 94080.

Interferon-gamma is a highly species-specific cytokine and has the most
restricted host range of activity of the interferons. Recombinant human IFN-gamma
was one of the first species-specific recombinant proteins to be thoroughly
assessed in conventional safety models used for xenobiotics. Acute single-dose
intravenous toxicity studies with rHuIFN-gamma were performed in rats, marmosets,
and squirrel monkeys with no indications of toxicity. A complete series of
subchronic toxicity studies and segment I and II reproductive studies in the rat 
revealed no evidence of toxicity at any of the doses tested. These results
suggested that studies conducted in pharmacologically nonresponsive species may
not be predictive of clinical toxicity. Human IFN-gamma is active on nonhuman
primate cells, though not at the same level as on human cells. Multidose studies 
in cynomolgus monkeys with rHuIFN-gamma for 28 or 90 days were predictive of many
of the dose-limiting clinical toxicities. Qualitative similarity was observed
between toxicity studies employing rHuIFN-gamma in the cynomolgus monkey and
rMuIFN-gamma in the mouse. The adverse effects seen in toxicity studies with
cytokines and growth factors are often exaggerated pharmacological effects of the
molecules, and therefore can only be studied in a responsive species. In
situations in which a high degree of species specificity is encountered, studies 
employing a recombinant protein in a homologous species may provide a useful test
system for preclinical safety assessment.

DOI: 10.1016/b978-0-12-364935-5.50011-0 
PMID: 8458720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

