

4158. J Bone Miner Res. 1993 Jan;8(1):27-35.

Identification of a competitive binding component in vitamin D-resistant New
World primate cells with a low affinity but high capacity for
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.

Gacad MA(1), Adams JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, University of
California-Los Angeles School of Medicine.

Monkeys in a number of different New World primate genera express a form of
compensated target organ resistance to steroid hormones, including
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3]. Characterization of these phenotypes has
previously relied upon the study of the 1,25-(OH)2D3-receptor (VDR) interaction
in cultured dermal fibroblasts from affected primates. In this report, we show
that three of these prototypic phenotypes can be faithfully reproduced in
previously established cultured cell lines: B95-8, EBV-transformed B lymphoblasts
from the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World primate with recognized
vitamin D resistance; OMK, renal tubular epithelial cells from the owl monkey
(Aotus trivergatus), a New World primate with an Old World primate-like VDR
phenotype; and MLA144, transformed B lymphoblasts from a gibbon (Hylobates), an
Old World primate that expresses the wild-type VDR phenotype. The rank order of
specific nuclear uptake and binding of [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3 to the VDR was OMK > or =
MLA144 >> B95-8. Despite a 7- to 9-fold difference in cellular VDR content
according to ligand binding analyses, there was no discernible difference in the 
internalization constant Kin for specific cellular uptake of [3H]1,25-(OH)2D3
(0.12-0.26 nM) or in the quantity of VDR detected by immunoblot analysis. We now 
speculate that the discrepancy in VDR quantitation by binding and immunoblot
analysis in the B95-8 New World primate cell line results from the presence of an
intracellular, vitamin D metabolite binding moiety in this cell line that
competes with the VDR for metabolite binding.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.5650080105 
PMID: 8381251  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

