

4174. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1992 Dec;75(6):1556-61.

Relative effects of activin and inhibin on steroid hormone synthesis in primate
granulosa cells.

Mir√≥ F(1), Hillier SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

Ovarian granulosa cells produce inhibin and activin, structurally related
proteins with potentials to directly modulate follicular steroidogenesis. The aim
of the present study was to compare development-related effects of inhibin-A and 
activin-A on steroidogenesis in marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) granulosa
cells. Granulosa cells from "immature" (< 1.0 mm diameter) and "mature" (> 2 mm
diameter) follicles were incubated in serum-free culture medium for 96 h with and
without peptide (1-100 ng/mL), in the presence and absence of gonadotropins
[human (h) FSH or hLH] (10 ng/mL). Spent medium was collected and stored frozen
for progesterone assay. Aromatase activity was determined by incubating cells for
a further 6 h in the presence of 1 mumol testosterone and assaying accumulation
of oestradiol. Granulosa cells from immature follicles showed characteristically 
low basal rates of steroid synthesis that were unaffected by treatment alone with
either inhibin or activin. Treatment with hFSH stimulated both progesterone
production and aromatase activity. Cotreatment with activin and hFSH further
enhanced aromatase activity by up to 4-fold. The progesterone response to activin
plus hFSH was related to the effect of hFSH in the absence of activin: high-level
responsiveness to hFSH was suppressed by activin while low-level responsiveness
was enhanced. Inhibin had no significant effect on FSH-responsive progesterone
production, but at high concentrations (> 10 ng/mL) it caused slight (up to 30%) 
reduction in FSH-induced aromatase activity. Granulosa cells from mature
follicles showed relatively high basal rates of steroidogenesis, and treatment
with inhibin did not influence either basal or gonadotropin responsive
steroidogenesis. Treatment with activin had divergent effects on aromatase
activity and progesterone synthesis in that it increased both basal and
hLH-responsive aromatase activity (up to 11-fold), had no effect on basal
progesterone production, and markedly suppressed (by more than 50%) the
progesterone response to hLH. These data reveal development-dependent effects of 
inhibin and activin on granulosa cell steroidogenesis that are likely to have
physiological relevance to ovarian function in vivo.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.75.6.1464664 
PMID: 1464664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

