

4177. J Chromatogr. 1992 Nov 13;625(1):55-66.

Purification of cytochromes P-450 derived from liver microsomes of untreated and 
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin-treated marmoset monkeys.

Kastner M(1), Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Germany.

The purification of multiple forms of cytochrome P-450 (P450) from
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)-treated marmosets using fast protein
liquid chromatography (FPLC) is described. The main aim was to achieve a better
separation of certain closely related P450 sub-forms from each other than that
previously obtained using conventional chromatography. An 8-aminooctyl-Sepharose 
fraction of cholate-solubilized microsomes was obtained first and, after fast
desalting on Sephadex G-25, loaded on to a preparative Mono Q column. Five of the
six gradient peaks contained P450 and were each rechromatographed on an
analytical Mono Q column. The pass-through peak was fractionated further using a 
Mono S column. Other HPLC-quality anion- and cation-exchange gels were compared. 
For removal of excess of non-ionic detergent, five types of hydroxyapatite gels
were compared. Seven purified forms of P450 and cytochrome b5 and P420 were
isolated and characterized according to PHAST sodium
dodecylsulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoretic apparent molecular masses,
catalytic, spectral and magnetic properties and also TCDD-binding capacity (molar
ratio of [14C]TCDD to P450). There are at least two sub-forms which appear to be 
TCDD inducible, one showing a substantial ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity
and the other having a high TCDD-binding molar ratio. Two other forms appear to
be constitutive, as deduced from comparisons with forms purified from untreated
animals.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9673(92)87221-s 
PMID: 12126110  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

