

4186. Biol Reprod. 1992 Oct;47(4):554-60.

Evidence that most of the radioimmunoassayable inhibin secreted by the corpus
luteum of the common marmoset monkey is of a non-dimeric form.

Knight PG(1), Muttukrishna S, Groome N, Webley GE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Physiology, University of Reading, Whiteknights, 
United Kingdom.

Although recent data for several species of primate, including human and
marmoset, indicate that the corpus luteum secretes high levels of
radioimmunoassayable inhibin, the nature of the immunoreactive (ir) inhibin
detected has not been established. In this study, plasma ir-inhibin levels during
the ovarian cycle of the marmoset (n = 12 animals) were measured by
alpha-subunit-directed inhibin RIA, and values were compared with those estimated
by a recently developed two-site immunoradiometric assay (IRMA) specific for
inhibin alpha-beta dimer. Consistent with earlier data, plasma levels of
ir-inhibin measured by RIA (overall mean value 133 +/- 7 ng/ml; n = 171) reached 
values 4-fold higher (p less than 0.001) during the luteal phase (222 +/- 20
ng/ml) than during the follicular phase (58 +/- 8 ng/ml), being directly
correlated with plasma progesterone levels (r = 0.65; p less than 0.001). In
contrast, plasma ir-inhibin levels estimated by IRMA were substantially lower
than those measured by RIA (overall mean value 9.62 +/- 1.08 ng/ml; n = 171) and 
did not vary significantly during the cycle. Administration of a luteolytic dose 
of cloprostenol during the late luteal phase/early pregnancy led to an abrupt
fall in plasma concentrations of progesterone (95%) and alpha-inhibin measured by
RIA (82%), whereas dimeric inhibin levels remained unchanged. Analysis of
marmoset luteal extracts (n = 5) by RIA, IRMA, and inhibin bioassay yielded
inhibin estimates of 102.6 +/- 21.0, 0.632 +/- 0.103, and less than 2.0 ng/mg,
respectively, thus confirming that only a very small proportion of the inhibin
produced was dimeric (i.e., bioactive) in nature.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod47.4.554 
PMID: 1391341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

