

4187. J Anat. 1992 Oct;181 ( Pt 2):301-12.

Zonal differentiation of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) endometrium.

Rune GM(1), Leuchtenberg U, Schr√∂ter-Kermani C, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Free University of Berlin, Germany.

The differentiation of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) endometrium under
different steroid hormone levels was investigated by electron microscopy and by
the binding of different antibodies directed against collagen types. Based on
differences in the glandular and interglandular compartments, the endometrium of 
sexually mature common marmosets consists of 3 zones: basal, adluminal and
luminal. Hormone-dependent appearances are characterised. With low steroid
concentrations, intercellular spaces between glandular epithelial cells occurred 
in the adluminal and the luminal areas. Epithelial cells of the basal region
exhibited coated pits and phagolysosomes together with large apical protrusions. 
Under oestrogen dominance, phagolysosomes, fat vesicles and apical protrusions
were evident in epithelial cells in the adluminal region. Secretory granules and 
concentric glycogen accumulations were a characteristic feature in epithelial
cells of the adluminal and basal regions. With high progesterone concentrations, 
large empty vesicles were found with a higher frequency in adluminal than in
basal epithelial cells. Using FITC-labelled antibodies against types V and VI
collagen, binding was apparent adluminally in close vicinity to basement
membranes, whereas reactivity was seen in the entire interglandular region of the
basal area during this phase. Our findings indicate specific microenvironments
with distinctive structural characteristics in the marmoset endometrium that are 
hormone dependent during all phases of the endometrial cycle. They are not
related to menstruation, appear to be characteristic for primates and could
reflect epithelial-mesenchymal interaction.


PMCID: PMC1259725
PMID: 1295868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

