

4188. J Neurosci. 1992 Sep;12(9):3456-65.

Changes in the cortical map of the hand following postnatal ulnar and radial
nerve injury in monkeys: organization and modification of nerve dominance
aggregates.

Wall JT(1), Huerta MF, Kaas JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Medical College of Ohio, Toledo 43699.

The ulnar and radial nerves to the hands of 12-31-d-old marmoset monkeys were
transected and ligated, and the monkeys were subsequently reared for periods of
1.4-1.6 years with only median nerve innervation to the hand. Features of
organization in the cortical area 3b hand map were then assessed with
neurophysiological mapping procedures, and compared to features in monkeys that
had undergone either a normal postnatal development with three intact hand
nerves, or an abnormal development with two intact nerves due to postnatal injury
of the median nerve. A systematic comparison of cortical organization in these
monkeys led to three main findings. First, some features of organization show
little or no change when monkeys are reared with one, two, or three hand nerves. 
These features include receptive field size and the overall size of the hand map.
Second, other features are, in contrast, clearly altered in an injury-dependent
manner. These features include cortical neuronal thresholds to light tactile
stimuli, and the spatial location, size, shape, continuity, and somatotopic
interfacing of representations of the parts of the hand. Finally, estimates of
the peripheral innervation territories of the hand nerves, and of the
corresponding distributions of cortical neurons activated by inputs from these
territories, indicate that the normal hand map contains bandlike aggregates of
neurons that are dominantly activated by inputs from each nerve. Postnatal nerve 
injuries alter the size of these nerve dominance aggregates.


PMCID: PMC6575727
PMID: 1527590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

