

4191. Xenobiotica. 1992 Sep-Oct;22(9-10):1101-9.

Co-induction of cytochrome P4504A1 and peroxisome proliferation: a causal or
casual relationship?

Gibson GG(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Surrey, School of Biological Sciences, Molecular Toxicology
Group, Guildford, UK.

1. The hypothesis that xenobiotic induction of hepatic microsomal cytochrome
P4504A1 and peroxisome proliferation are closely-related phenomena has been
further investigated. 2. Five rat strains (Gunn, Fischer, Wistar, Long Evans and 
Sprague Dawley) were all susceptible to xenobiotic induction of both microsomal
cytochrome P4504A1 and peroxisome proliferation, and no strain exhibited a
dissociation of these phenomena. 3. In comparison to rat, the marmoset was
substantially less susceptible to the above hepatic changes. 4. Induction of both
cytochrome P4504A1 and peroxisome proliferation by a structural analogue of
clofibrate (2-(4-(4-chlorophenyl)benzyloxy)-2-phenyl acetic acid) demonstrated
stereochemical selectivity, in that the R(-)-isomer was a more potent inducer of 
both phenomena than the S(+)-antipode, with the racemic mixture exhibiting an
intermediate potency. 5. Cycloheximide inhibition of clofibrate-dependent
induction of acyl CoA mRNA, but not cytochrome P4504A1 mRNA has indicated a
protein dependency for peroxisome proliferation, not inconsistent with
participation of cytochrome P4504A1 in the biogenesis of peroxisome
proliferation. 6. Taken collectively, the data described herein provide further
evidence for a close linkage between xenobiotic induction of cytochrome P4504A1
and peroxisome proliferation, and possible molecular mechanisms inter-relating
these two phenomena are discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/00498259209051864 
PMID: 1441601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

