

4192. J Reprod Fertil. 1992 Sep;96(1):385-93.

Stimulation of immunoreactive inhibin production by preimplantation embryos
during early pregnancy in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Webley GE(1), Knight PG, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, London, UK.

The role of the embryo in promoting increased plasma concentrations of
immunoreactive inhibin after conception in the marmoset monkey was determined by 
flushing embryos from the uterus between days 5 and 9 after ovulation
(implantation commences on days 11-12). Blood samples were taken from each animal
(three times a week) after ovulation until the end of the luteal phase. Plasma
inhibin concentrations were measured using a radioimmunoassay based on antisera
against a synthetic fragment of the alpha-subunit of human inhibin. When embryos 
were flushed on days 5 and 6 (n = 6) after ovulation inhibin concentrations did
not exceed 250 ng ml-1 for the duration of the luteal phase. In contrast when
embryos were flushed on days 7 (n = 4), 8 (n = 4) and 9 (n = 3) maximum
concentrations of inhibin always exceeded 250 ng ml-1, reaching > 400 ng ml-1
when embryos were flushed on days 8 and 9. Inhibin concentrations remained high
for the duration of the luteal phase, which varied in length between 20 and 32
days. Significantly (P < 0.01) higher mean plasma concentrations of
immunoreactive inhibin were first recorded on days 7-8 after ovulation in animals
that had embryos flushed on days 7, 8 and 9 compared with concentrations in
animals that had embryos flushed on days 5 and 6. Inhibin could not be detected
in the medium of embryos cultured for up to 2 weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0960385 
PMID: 1432971  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

