

4198. J Autoimmun. 1992 Aug;5(4):511-25.

Effect of ultraviolet irradiation on selected host cell proteins including
Ro/SS-A and Epstein-Barr virus in cultured lymphoblastoid cell lines.

Newkirk MM(1), Tsoukas C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Montreal General Hospital Research Institute, McGill
University, Canada.

Although systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and Sj√∂gren's syndrome (SS) are
distinct collagen vascular illnesses, they share certain features. Both have
clinical manifestations involving skin and mucous membranes and
characteristically have high titers of circulating autoantibodies to the cellular
components Ro/SS-A, calreticulin/Ro, 52 kDa Ro and La/SS-B. Viruses have been
postulated to be involved in the pathogenesis of both diseases. Sensitivity to
sun is a cardinal feature of SLE, and UV light may be involved in its
pathogenesis. Using human B-lymphoblastoid cell lines, the effect of the resident
Epstein-Barr virus on the expression of the above cellular components was
investigated by flow cytometry. Sublethal irradiation with ultraviolet B light
appeared to diminish EBV antigen expression (gp350/220) during the first 48 to 72
hours in culture, whereas there was no change in the expression of MHC class I or
immunoglobulin host cell proteins, and an apparent increase in the expression of 
host cell autoantigens. The virus appeared to be more sensitive to UVB-induced
damage yet did appear to be able to undergo repair. No direct correlation could
be made between the presence of the virus and the increase in autoantigen
expression. La/SS-B and/or 52 kDa Ro antigen(s) were found to be present in the
cytoplasm of the B lymphoblastoid cells at a higher base level in EBV-infected
cell lines than in the EBV-negative cell lines.

DOI: 10.1016/0896-8411(92)90009-f 
PMID: 1329799  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

