

42. Exp Anim. 2021 Nov 18. doi: 10.1538/expanim.21-0134. [Epub ahead of print]

Whole blood transfusion in common marmosets: a clinical evaluation.

Yurimoto T(1), Mineshige T(1)(2), Shinohara H(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals Department of Marmoset Biology and 
Medicine.
(2)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro University of Agriculture and
Veterinary Medicine.

In veterinary medicine, blood transfusion is commonly performed on companion
animals. The common marmoset is a small nonhuman primate with increasing
popularity as an animal model in biomedical research. Because of its small whole 
blood volume, the marmoset is at high risk of exsanguination, and blood
transfusion is required to care for life-threatening bleeding. However, few
clinical evaluations exist on transfusions for marmosets. This study performed
whole blood transfusion with cross-matching on nine marmosets and surveyed the
therapeutic effects. Recipients included clinical cases with persistent bleeding,
anemia, and coma, as well as animals subjected to postoperative bleeding
prophylaxis. Donors were selected from healthy marmosets, including littermates. 
Cross-match assay before transfusion were all negative, and recipients showed no 
visible signs of transfusion-related adverse reactions. Whole blood transfusions 
caused hemostasis and successful recovery in bleeding marmosets, including
long-term improvement of anemia cases. Our results indicated that blood
transfusion is effective for marmosets with severe anemia and persistent
hemorrhage from both non-experimental and surgical causes. Furthermore, DNA
sequencing for blood-group classification revealed that all subject marmosets
were type A, suggesting that the risk of blood type mismatch may be low in this
species.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.21-0134 
PMID: 34789617 

