

4212. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1992 Jul;262(1):90-8.

Profile of action of a novel 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor ligand E-4424 to
inhibit aversive behavior in the mouse, rat and marmoset.

Costall B(1), Domeney AM, Farre AJ, Kelly ME, Martinez L, Naylor RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Postgraduate Studies in Pharmacology, School of Pharmacy, University of
Bradford, West Yorkshire, England.

E-4424 (2-(4-[4-(4-chloro-1-pyrazolyl)butyl]-1-piperazinyl)pyrimidine) was shown 
to be a 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor ligand in radioligand binding assays and
in an in vitro guinea pig ileum preparation had both 5-hydroxytryptamine1A
antagonist and agonist effects. The antagonist/agonist ratio of E-4424 was
greater than in the case of buspirone and ipsapirone. E-4424 was compared to
diazepam, buspirone and ipsapirone to inhibit the behavioral response to an
aversive situation in the mouse black and white test box, the rat social
interaction test and a marmoset human threat test. The acute administration of
E-4424 (0.0001-0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) to the mouse decreased aversion to the white area
of the test box and was as effective as diazepam (0.125-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and much
more potent than buspirone (0.25-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) or ipsapirone (0.5-5.0 mg/kg,
i.p.). E-4424 was also effective in enhancing rat social interaction and reducing
anxiety-related behaviors in the marmoset and was again more potent than
diazepam, buspirone or ipsapirone. Withdrawal from a 14-day administration of
diazepam, cocaine, nicotine or alcohol exacerbated the response to the aversive
situation in the mouse test. This was not observed after withdrawal from a
chronic treatment with E-4424, buspirone or ipsapirone. However, E-4424
administered during drug withdrawal prevented the response caused by withdrawal
from cocaine, alcohol, nicotine and diazepam: buspirone was ineffective and
ipsapirone only attenuated that syndrome after alcohol withdrawal.(ABSTRACT
TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 1352556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

