

4219. Brain. 1992 Jun;115 ( Pt 3):825-56.

Behavioural analysis of unilateral monoamine depletion in the marmoset.

Annett LE(1), Rogers DC, Hernandez TD, Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.

Unilateral stereotaxic injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the
nigrostriatal bundle of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) produced substantial
losses of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons from the substantia nigra, 
and mean dopamine (DA) depletions of 98-99% in the caudate nucleus, putamen and
nucleus accumbens, and of 91-97% in frontal cortex, on the side of the lesion.
Noradrenaline (NA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels were also affected.
Behavioural tests conducted pre-operatively and at regular intervals during the 6
mths following surgery revealed persistent deficits in the lesioned marmosets as 
a group compared with sham-lesioned controls, although individual marmosets
sometimes recovered or showed no initial deficit on some tests. The main
behavioural effects of the lesion were as follows: (i) an increase in the time
spent with the head positioned ipsilaterally with respect to the rest of the
body; (ii) ipsilateral spontaneous and amphetamine-induced rotation, although
occasional intermittent periods of contralateral rotation and head biases were
also recorded; (iii) contralateral apomorphine-induced rotation; (iv) reduced
spontaneous activity; (v) ipsilateral hand preference on a conveyor belt task,
although hand skill (measured as percentage errors when the speed of the belt was
increased) was not affected; (vi) neglect of contralateral stimuli, both at the
conveyor belt where lesioned monkeys often failed to respond on trials on which
apple pieces arrived from the contralateral side, and on a test of sensorimotor
neglect in which adhesive labels were placed around both feet. Comparisons of
biochemical measures of the lesion with behavioural scores in individual monkeys 
suggest that DA depletions in excess of 95% are essential for long-term
behavioural deficits.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/115.3.825 
PMID: 1352726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

