

422. Neurosci Res. 2020 Jun;155:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2019.09.005. Epub 2019 Oct
3.

Evaluating the efficacy of small molecules for neural differentiation of common
marmoset ESCs and iPSCs.

Yoshimatsu S(1), Nakamura M(2), Nakajima M(2), Nemoto A(2), Sato T(2), Sasaki
E(3), Shiozawa S(2), Okano H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Laboratory for Proteolytic Neuroscience, RIKEN Center for 
Brain Science, Wako City, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Wako City, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan; Department of Marmoset Biology and Medicine,
Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kanagawa, 210-0821, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center 
for Brain Science, Wako City, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address:
hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

The common marmoset (marmoset; Callithrix jacchus) harbors various desired
features as a non-human primate (NHP) model for neuroscience research. Recently, 
efforts have been made to induce neural cells in vitro from marmoset pluripotent 
stem cells (PSCs), including embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and induced pluripotent 
stem cells (iPSCs), which are characterized by their capacity to differentiate
into all cell types from the three germ layers. Successful generation of marmoset
neural cells is not only invaluable for understanding neural development and for 
modeling neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders, but is also necessary for
the phenotypic screening of genetically-modified marmosets. However, differences 
in the differentiation propensity among PSC lines hamper the applicability and
the reproducibility of differentiation methods. To overcome this limitation, we
evaluated the efficacy of small molecules for neural differentiation of marmoset 
ESCs (cjESCs) and iPSCs using multiple differentiation methods. By immunochemical
and transcriptomic analyses, we confirmed that our methods using the small
molecules are efficient for various differentiation protocols by either enhancing
the yield of a mixture of neural cells including both neurons and glial cells, or
a pure population of neurons. Collectively, our findings optimized in vitro
neural differentiation methods for marmoset PSCs, which would ultimately help
enhance the utility of the animal model in neuroscience.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. and Japan Neuroscience Society. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2019.09.005 
PMID: 31586586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

