

4220. Biochem Pharmacol. 1992 May 28;43(10):2129-34.

Identification of the proximate peroxisome proliferator(s) derived from di
(2-ethylhexyl) adipate and species differences in response.

Cornu MC(1), Lhuguenot JC, Brady AM, Moore R, Elcombe CR.

Author information: 
(1)DÃ©partement de Biochimie et Toxicologie Alimentaires, ENS.BANA, Campus
Universitaire, Dijon, France.

Identification of the proximate peroxisome proliferator(s) derived from di
(2-ethylhexyl) adipate (DEHA) has been achieved using primary hepatocyte cultures
derived from different species and cyanide-insensitive fatty acyl CoA oxidase
(PCO) as a marker enzyme for peroxisome proliferation. In rat and mouse
hepatocytes, the parent compound (DEHA) had no effect on peroxisomal
beta-oxidation, but primary metabolites of DEHA, mono (2-ethylhexyl) adipate
(MEHA) and 2-ethylhexanol (EH), were approximately equipotent in PCO induction
(5-fold at 0.5 mM final concentration). The secondary metabolite of DEHA,
2-ethylhexanoic acid (EHA), was in both species the most potent peroxisome
proliferator (25- and 9-fold induction in mice and rats, respectively, at 1 mM
final concentration). At 2 mM final concentration a tertiary metabolite of DEHA, 
2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexan-1-oic acid, was less effective in mouse and rat
hepatocytes at inducing PCO (15- and 5-fold, respectively).
2-Ethyl-5-oxohexan-1-oic acid and 2-ethylhexan-1,6-dioic acid had little effect
(2-3-fold in both rat and mouse hepatocytes). Thus, EHA was identified as the
proximate peroxisome proliferator of DEHA and mouse hepatocytes were
approximately twice as sensitive as rat hepatocytes to peroxisome proliferation
due to MEHA, EH and EHA. We investigated further species differences in response 
to peroxisome proliferators by using guinea pig and marmoset primary hepatocyte
culture. None of the chemicals studied stimulated peroxisomal beta-oxidation in
these species up to a final concentration of 2 mM. Higher concentrations lead to 
cytotoxicity. This lack of sensitivity of guinea pig and marmoset hepatocytes is 
in agreement with previous studies with di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate metabolites, 
suggesting the absence of a threat of hepatocarcinogenic damage to these species 
and confirming that primary hepatocytes cultures are useful models for
investigating the phenomenon of peroxisome proliferation.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(92)90171-e 
PMID: 1599500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

