

4221. Cell Tissue Res. 1992 May;268(2):369-76.

Intercellular communication between cultured granulosa cells of the marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Rune GM(1), Pretzer D, Beuthe W, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institut f√ºr Anatomie, Berlin, Federal Republic of Germany.

The influence of follicle-stimulating hormone, forskolin, insulin-like growth
factor type I, epidermal growth factor, and 12-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate
on marmoset granulosa cell communication via gap junctions was investigated by
morphological means and microinjection of carboxyfluorescein. Gap junctions
between neighbouring granulosa cells were present in all groups. The number, but 
not length, of gap junctions between marmoset granulosa cells increased when the 
cells had been treated with follicle-stimulating hormone, insulin-like growth
factor type I, and follicle-stimulating hormone plus insulin-like growth factor
type I. No effect on gap junctions was seen, after exposure of the cells to the
other three substances. Carboxyfluorescein and counting of the surrounding
labelled cells showed that supplementation with follicle-stimulating hormone,
forskolin, insulin-like growth factor type I and epidermal growth factor from the
beginning of cultivation led to an increase in stained cells after 48 h. When
treatment was started in 48 h cultures the substances reached their maximal
activity within 30 min (forskolin and epidermal growth factor) or 3 h
(follicle-stimulating hormone and insulin-like growth factor type I). Spreading
of the fluorescent dye was inhibited when the medium was supplemented with
12-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate. This effect was maximal after 30 min.
Additive effects regarding the coupling of the cells were seen by combining of
epidermal growth factor with follicle-stimulating hormone, but not with
insulin-like growth factor type I or forskolin plus follicle-stimulating hormone.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00318805 
PMID: 1617703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

