

4235. Lab Anim. 1992 Apr;26(2):88-99.

Sex ratio and mortality in a laboratory colony of the common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus).

Rothe H(1), Darms K, Koenig A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anthropology, University of Goettingen, Germany.

In a retrospective study sex ratio and mortality were analysed in a captive
colony of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Seven hundred and thirty-five
infants in 294 litters (20 singletons, 119 twins, 140 triplets, 14 quadruplets)
out of 57 breeding females were evaluated. The sex ratio at birth was 0.95
males:1.0 females. The frequency of males and females, as well as the sex
composition of twins and triplets confirm the assumption of dizygotic twinning in
the common marmoset. According to age at death, 9 categories were differentiated,
with perinatal mortality being the highest. Once early infancy had passed the
probability of a common marmoset infant of our colony reaching childhood is
nearly 95%. Sixty per cent of all liveborn infants survived beyond 18 months.
Mortality of infants at birth from primiparous mothers did not differ from that
of pluriparous females, nor did the survival rate of infants with the filial
generation the respective female had reached (F1 to F6). Females with a high
ratio of triplets and quadruplets had a lower reproductive success than females
with a majority of singleton or twin deliveries. Differential mortality between
males and females was not observed. The frequency of stillbirths was not strongly
related to parity, but was to litter-size. Most stillborn babies were seen in
sets of quadruplets, most abortions in singletons. A normal socialization in a
stable social environment, as well as not pairing the animals before they are
fully adult, are considered important factors in good breeding success and infant
survival.

DOI: 10.1258/002367792780745922 
PMID: 1518282  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

