

424. Vis Neurosci. 2019 Jun 18;36:E009. doi: 10.1017/S0952523819000087.

Melanopsin and calbindin immunoreactivity in the inner retina of humans and
marmosets.

Chandra AJ(1)(2), Lee SCS(1)(2), Gr√ºnert U(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Save Sight Institute, Discipline of Clinical Ophthalmology, Sydney Medical
School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia.

In primate retina, the calcium-binding protein calbindin is expressed by a
variety of neurons including cones, bipolar cells, and amacrine cells but it is
not known which type(s) of cell express calbindin in the ganglion cell layer. The
present study aimed to identify calbindin-positive cell type(s) in the amacrine
and ganglion cell layer of human and marmoset retina using immunohistochemical
markers for ganglion cells (RBPMS and melanopsin) and cholinergic amacrine (ChAT)
cells. Intracellular injections following immunolabeling was used to reveal the
morphology of calbindin-positive cells. In human retina, calbindin-labeled cells 
in the ganglion cell layer were identified as inner and outer stratifying
melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells, and ON ChAT (starburst amacrine) cells. In 
marmoset, calbindin immunoreactivity in the ganglion cell layer was absent from
ganglion cells but present in ON ChAT cells. In the inner nuclear layer of human 
retina, calbindin was found in melanopsin-expressing displaced ganglion cells and
in at least two populations of amacrine cells including about a quarter of the
OFF ChAT cells. In marmoset, a very low proportion of OFF ChAT cells was
calbindin-positive. These results suggest that in both species there may be two
types of OFF ChAT cells. Consistent with previous studies, the ratio of ON to OFF
ChAT cells was about 70 to 30 in human and 30 to 70 in marmoset. Our results show
that there are species-related differences between different primates with
respect to the expression of calbindin.

DOI: 10.1017/S0952523819000087 
PMID: 31581958  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

