

4241. Eur J Pharmacol. 1992 Mar 3;212(2-3):247-52.

Terguride stimulates locomotor activity at 2 months but not 10 months after
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment of common marmosets.

Lange KW(1), Löschmann PA, Wachtel H, Horowski R, Jähnig P, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, Biomedical
Sciences Division, King's College, London, U.K.

The mixed dopamine (DA) agonist/antagonist terguride acts as a DA antagonist on
normosensitive receptors but shows DA agonistic properties at supersensitive DA
receptors. Such a compound could offer an alternative to the treatment of
Parkinson's disease with indirect or direct DA agonists. The present study
compares the actions of terguride, 4-12 mg/kg i.p., in naive common marmosets
with its effects in animals rendered parkinsonian by administration of
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 2 months or 10 months
previously, in order to test its antiparkinsonian efficacy. Terguride reduced
locomotor activity in naive common marmosets, similar to its effects in rodents
and in line with the DA antagonistic activity of the compound. In marmosets
treated with MPTP 2 months previously and exhibiting pronounced behavioural motor
deficits, terguride stimulated locomotor activity, showing DA agonistic
properties under these conditions. In contrast, the locomotor activity of animals
that had recovered from MPTP treatment 10 months previously was not altered by
terguride. It is concluded that terguride has anti-akinetic efficacy in this
primate model of Parkinson's disease. In addition, terguride offers a unique
opportunity to differentiate, pharmacologically, the extent of dopaminergic
recovery from MPTP treatment in this primate species.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(92)90337-4 
PMID: 1350996  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

