

4244. Lipids. 1992 Mar;27(3):169-76.

The effect of dietary supplementation with eicosapentaenoic acid on the
phospholipid and fatty acid composition of erythrocytes of marmoset.

Gibson RA(1), Neumann MA, Burnard SL, Rinaldi JA, Patten GS, McMurchie EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park, Australia.

Adult male marmoset monkeys were fed eicosapentaenoic acid (20:5n-3) as the ethyl
ester in diets containing either 32% (reference diet, no added cholesterol) or 7%
(atherogenic diet with 0.2% added cholesterol) linoleic acid (18:2n-6) for 30 wk.
No changes were seen in the level of phosphatidylcholine (PC) or
phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) but minor changes were observed in both the
sphingomyelin (SPM) and phosphatidylinositol plus phosphatidylserine (PI+PS)
fractions of erythrocyte lipids. The extent of total n-3 fatty acid incorporation
into membrane lipids was higher in atherogenic diets
(polyunsaturated/monounsaturated/saturated (P/M/S) ratio 0.2:0.6:1.0) than
reference diets (P/M/S ratio 1:1:1) and this was true for both PE (33.4 +/- 1.0% 
vs 24.3 +/- 1.1%) and PC (9.3 +/- 0.5% vs 4.9 +/- 0.3%). Although suitable
controls for cholesterol effects were not included in the study, earlier results 
obtained with marmosets lead us to believe such effects were probably small.
Regardless of basic diet (atherogenic, reference), 20:5n-3 was preferentially
incorporated into PE (10.8 +/- 0.2%, 6.0 +/- 0.02%) while smaller amounts were
incorporated into PC (6.9 +/- 0.4%, 3.2 +/- 0.2%). The major n-3 polyunsaturated 
fatty acid found in PE in response to dietary 20:5n-3 was the elongation
metabolite 22:5n-3 in both the atherogenic (17.7 +/- 0.7%) and reference (14.3
+/- 1.0%) dietary groups; 22:6n-3 levels were less affected by diet (4.7 +/- 0.3%
and 3.9 +/- 0.2%, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02536173 
PMID: 1522760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

