

428. Primates. 2020 Mar;61(2):321-329. doi: 10.1007/s10329-019-00760-x. Epub 2019 Sep 
28.

Electrocutions in free-living black-tufted marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) in 
anthropogenic environments in the Federal District and surrounding areas, Brazil.

Pereira AABG(1), Dias B(1), Castro SI(1), Landi MFA(1), Melo CB(1), Wilson TM(1),
Costa GRT(2), Passos PHO(3), Romano AP(3), Szabó MPJ(4), Castro MB(5).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
(2)Environmental Health Surveillance Directorate of the Federal District (DIVAL),
SAAN-Estrada do Contorno do Bosque, lote 04, Brasília, DF, 70790-060, Brazil.
(3)Technical Group on Arbovirus Surveillance (GT-Arbovirosis) General
Coordination of Communicable Diseases (CGDT), Department of Communicable Disease 
Surveillance (DEVIT), Secretariat of Health Surveillance-Ministry of Health
(SVS/MS) SRTV 701, Via W 5 Norte-Ed. PO700-6 andar., Brasília, DF, 70723-040,
Brazil.
(4)Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Universidade Federal de Uberlândia, Av.
Pará 1720, Campus Umuarama-Bloco 2T, Uberlândia, MG, 38400-902, Brazil.
(5)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
mbcastro@unb.br.

Shrinking natural habitats exposes some non-human primates to the risk of
accidents associated with electrical transmission lines. We examined dead
marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) collected in the region from January 2015 to
April 2018 to determine the animals' cause of death and for electrocuted animals 
we examined the locations the animals had died as well as the configuration of
the power lines at these sites. We also recorded the sex of the animal, the body 
region affected, and characteristics of the injuries. We diagnosed electrocutions
in 11% (n = 34) of the marmosets studied. Most of the affected animals were male 
(n = 22) with single or double sites of injury on the limbs. Animals were injured
in urban (n = 26) and peri-urban (n = 8) areas on lower-voltage alternate current
lines, and we detected no seasonality or hotspots of electrocution. Our findings 
suggest that movement along transmission lines composed of bundled conductors is 
a major factor in electrocutions of marmosets in the Federal District and
surrounding areas. The planning of electrical power grid infrastructure should
consider arboreal primates to prevent electrocutions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-019-00760-x 
PMID: 31564005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

