

4288. Mol Immunol. 1991 Nov;28(11):1171-81.

A single amino acid substitution in a common African allele of the CD4 molecule
ablates binding of the monoclonal antibody, OKT4.

Lederman S(1), DeMartino JA, Daugherty BL, Foeldvari I, Yellin MJ, Cleary AM,
Berkowitz N, Lowy I, Braunstein NS, Mark GE, et al.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032.

The CD4 molecule is a relatively non-polymorphic 55 kDa glycoprotein expressed on
a subset of T lymphocytes. A common African allele of CD4 has been identified by 
non-reactivity with the monoclonal antibody, OKT4. The genetic basis for the
OKT4- polymorphism of CD4 is unknown. In the present paper, the structure of the 
CD4 molecule from an homozygous CD4OKT4- individual was characterized at the
molecular level. The size of the CD4OKT4- protein and mRNA were indistinguishable
from those of the OKT4+ allele. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to
map the structure of CD4OKT4- cDNAs by amplifying overlapping DNA segments and to
obtain partial nucleotide sequence after asymmetric amplification. PCR was then
used to clone CD4OKT4- cDNAs spanning the coding region of the entire, mature CD4
protein by amplification of two overlapping segments followed by PCR
recombination. The nucleotide sequence of CD4OKT4- cDNA clones revealed a G----A 
transition at bp 867 encoding an arginine----tryptophan substitution at amino
acid 240 relative to CD4OKT4+. Expression of a CD4OKT4- cDNA containing only this
transition, confirmed that the arginine----tryptophan substitution at amino acid 
240 ablates the binding of the mAb OKT4. A positively charged amino acid residue 
at this position is found in chimpanzee, rhesus macaque, mouse and rat CD4
suggesting that this mutation may confer unique functional properties to the
CD4OKT4- protein.

DOI: 10.1016/0161-5890(91)90003-3 
PMID: 1961196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

