

4300. Monatsschr Kinderheilkd. 1991 Aug;139(8):434-41.

[The significance of PCDD's/PCDF's (dioxins) in pediatrics].

[Article in German]

Krüger N(1), Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Kinderklinik, Freien Universität, Berlin.

No epidemiological data are available up to now which reveal adverse effects
induced by dioxins during an exposure through breast milk. Furthermore, very few 
data on the concentration of PCDDs/PCDFs in the newborn and during the first year
of life have been published. Of all PCDDs/PCDFs, the substance with the highest
toxicity is 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin. However, in the environment this
congener is often only a minor component. A sensitive biological effect triggered
by TCDD is the enzyme induction of hepatic monooxygenases. Using a
14CO2-breath-test the apparent enzyme induction by
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) of the metabolic conversion of
[3-methyl14C]-caffeine was studied during the perinatal period in Wistar rats and
in a non-human-primate (marmoset, Callithrix jacchus). It could be shown that the
apparent induction of monooxygenase activity by TCDD in rat offspring as measured
with the breath-test, is dose-dependent and mainly achieved by postnatal exposure
via mothers' milk. Our data indicate that caffeine is a convenient substrate for 
studying monooxygenase activities (probably P450 IA-dependent) to be induced by
TCDD, and very likely also by other congeners. These results, therefore, may
provide the rationale for applying a [13C]-caffeine breath-test in human newborn 
and infants to analyse possible biological effects induced by TCDD and similar
pollutants in breast-fed children. Since PCDDs/PCDFs are pollutants without any
benefit, strong efforts should be continued to further reduce the output of
dioxins, the human exposure, and thereby also concentrations in human
milk.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 1961212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

