

431. Front Neurosci. 2019 Aug 30;13:913. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2019.00913. eCollection
2019.

Rightward Tympanic Membrane Temperature Bias During Acute Restraint-Isolation
Stress in Marmoset Monkeys.

Pereira LC(1)(2), Maior RS(1)(3), Barros M(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Primate Center, Institute of Biology, University of Brasília, Brasília,
Brazil.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, School of Health Sciences, University of Brasília,
Brasília, Brazil.
(3)Department of Physiological Sciences, Institute of Biology, University of
Brasília, Brasília, Brazil.

Restraint is widely used to experimentally assess stress-induced effects.
Surprisingly, little is known on how marmosets - an increasingly used small
primate - process and respond to restraint stress. Here, we assessed blood
cortisol concentration and tympanic membrane temperatures (TMT) in adult marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix penicillata) during 0, 15, or 30 min of restraint and social 
isolation in a small cage. TMT reflects blood flow to the cerebral hemispheres,
which in turn reflects neural activity. Baseline TMT were subtracted from
post-test measures to establish shifts in blood flow possibly induced by
ipsilateral brain activity. Cortisol was assayed immediately after the post-test 
assessment of the TMT. Marmosets restrained-isolated for 15 or 30 min had higher 
cortisol levels than the non-restrained-isolated group. Furthermore, significant 
changes in TMT were detected only in the right ear of the restrained-isolated
groups, this effect being unrelated to overall body temperature or the time
needed to capture/measure the TMT. Adult marmosets thus readily perceive a
significant reduction in their range of movement as an event of sufficient
negative intensity and/or duration to activate a pertinent neuroendocrine
response. Also, an asymmetrical shift in their TMT reflects that such an aversive
event may be rightwardly biased in this primate.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2019.00913 
PMCID: PMC6729121
PMID: 31543757 

