

4311. J Immunol. 1991 Apr 1;146(7):2176-84.

Development of a monoclonal antibody, anti-6C2, which is involved in the
interaction of CD4 T helper cells and activated B cells.

Torimoto Y(1), Sugita K, Weinberg DS, Dang NH, Donahue C, Letvin NL, Schlossman
SF, Morimoto C.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Tumor Immunology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115.

We have developed a mAb anti-6C2, by immunizing mice with T cell line derived
from the Callithrix jacchus (common marmoset). Anti-6C2 is reactive with
approximately 50% of unfractionated T cells, 50% of CD4+ cells, and 40% of CD8+
cells. Regarding CD4+ cells, anti-6C2-reactive cells substantially overlap with
the CD29+CD45RO+ Th cell population. Moreover, anti-6C2 can divide these T cells 
into 6C2+ and 6C2- subpopulations. The CD4+CD45RO+6C2+ cells maximally respond to
soluble Ag such as tetanus toxoid and provide strong helper function for
PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis. Most interestingly, anti-6C2 was also reactive
against activated B cells but not resting B cells; furthermore, this epitope was 
inducible through activation of resting B cells or B cell line. Biochemical
characterization showed that anti-6C2 precipitated two glycoproteins with the
relative molecular weights of 180,000 and 95,000 from 125I-surface labeled cell
lysate. Sequential immunoprecipitation studies demonstrated that these two
glycoproteins were the lymphocyte function-associated antigen (LFA-1) Ag complex 
(CD11a/18). Significantly, although this antibody did not inhibit cytotoxic
killer T cell responses and Ag-induced T cell proliferation as did conventional
anti-LFA-1, it did inhibit PWM-driven B cell IgG synthesis. Because 6C2
expression was induced after B cell activation, the above results strongly
suggest that the 6C2 molecule may play a role in the interaction of CD4 helper
cells and activated B lymphocytes.


PMID: 1706389  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

