

4313. J Endocrinol. 1991 Mar;128(3):465-73.

Increased concentrations of immunoreactive inhibin during conception cycles in
the marmoset monkey: suppression with an LHRH antagonist and cloprostenol.

Webley GE(1), Knight PG, Given A, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, London.

Peripheral concentrations of immunoreactive (ir) inhibin have been measured
during the ovarian cycle and early pregnancy in the marmoset monkey. Blood
samples were taken (three per week) during conception (n = 6) and non-conception 
(n = 5) cycles. Ir-inhibin was measured by radioimmunoassay using an antiserum
raised against a synthetic peptide fragment of the alpha subunit of human
inhibin. Monomeric bovine alpha subunit and 32 kDa bovine inhibin were used as
tracer and standard respectively. In all animals low concentrations of ir-inhibin
were recorded during the follicular phase (40-60 micrograms/l) of the cycle.
After ovulation, ir-inhibin concentrations increased but the peak concentrations 
attained differed between conception and non-conception cycles. In non-pregnant
animals ir-inhibin concentrations reached a maximum of 242 +/- 16 micrograms/l on
days 12/13 after ovulation. In pregnant animals ir-inhibin concentrations were
significantly (P less than 0.05) higher (1.8-fold) than in non-pregnant animals
on days 8/9 after ovulation, and reached a maximum value of 636 +/- 141
micrograms/l on days 20/21 after ovulation. Administration of an LHRH antagonist 
during the luteal phase on days 6-8 after ovulation resulted in a significant (P 
less than 0.05) decrease in progesterone and ir-inhibin concentrations within 4
and 8 h respectively. This was prevented by co-administration with human
chorionic gonadotrophin. Administration of cloprostenol to pregnant animals
between days 17 and 20 after ovulation halved the initial concentrations of both 
inhibin and progesterone within 1.5 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1280465 
PMID: 2013750  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

