

4317. Am J Physiol. 1991 Feb;260(2 Pt 2):H379-85.

Differential effects of dietary fish oil on myocardial prostaglandin I2 and
thromboxane A2 production.

Abeywardena MY(1), McLennan PL, Charnock JS.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organization, Australia.

Marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were maintained for 24 mo on a standard
primate diet [reference (Ref) diet] or this diet supplemented (8% wt/wt) with
either sheep fat (SF), sunflower seed oil (SSO), or tuna fish oil (TFO). The
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) of myocardial phospholipids demonstrated
significant alterations as a result of the dietary (n-3) or (n-6) lipid
supplementation. The reduction (P less than 0.05) in prostaglandin (PG) I2 in
PUFA diet-fed groups (SSO, 113.8 +/- 7.8; TFO, 87.9 +/- 8.2 compared with Ref,
153.9 +/- 7.4 pg/mg dry wt) seems to be due to the rate limitation of the
endogenous substrate, because the addition of exogenous arachidonic acid (AA) has
obliterated the dietary difference. However, AA did not increase the basal PGI2
production in the Ref or SF dietary groups, which differed from that for
thromboxane (Tx) A2 where 2- to 5-fold stimulation was observed. It is suggested 
that there exists a preferential channeling mechanism to direct AA derived from
phospholipase hydrolysis of membrane phospholipids toward PGI2 synthesis.
Conversely, the bulk of the AA for TxA2 biosynthesis appears to be supplied by a 
cytosolic nonesterified fatty acid pool. The effective replacement of AA of this 
pool and a specific inhibition of TxA2 synthetase enzyme complex by the (n-3)
PUFA of fish oil are offered as likely mechanisms for the greater inhibition of
TxA2 compared with PGI2 production observed in the present and previous studies. 
The present data on myocardial eicosanoids correlate well with the beneficial
qualities of (n-3) and (n-6) dietary PUFA on cardiac function that we have
reported previously.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.1991.260.2.H379 
PMID: 1899979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

