

432. Am J Primatol. 2019 Sep;81(9):e23037. doi: 10.1002/ajp.23037. Epub 2019 Sep 12.

Noninvasive cardiac psychophysiology as a tool for translational science with
marmosets.

Murphy AM(1)(2), Ross CN(3)(4)(5), Bliss-Moreau E(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)California National Primate Research Center, University of California, Davis, 
California.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of California, Davis, California.
(3)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University, San Antonio,
Texas.
(4)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(5)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, UT Health, San Antonio,
Texas.

The importance of marmosets for comparative and translational science has grown
in recent years because of their relatively rapid development, birth cohorts of
twins, family social structure, and genetic tractability. Despite this, they
remain understudied in investigations of affective processes. In this
methodological note, we establish the validity of using noninvasive commercially 
available equipment to record cardiac physiology and compute indices of autonomic
nervous system activity-a major component of affective processes. Specifically,
we recorded electrocardiogram and impedance cardiogram, from which we derived
heart rate, respiration rate, measures of high-frequency heart rate variability
(indices of parasympathetic autonomic nervous system activity), and ventricular
contractility (an index of sympathetic autonomic nervous system activity). Our
methods produced physiologically plausible data, and further, animals with
increased heart rates during testing were also more reactive to isolation from
their social partner and presentation of novel objects, though no relationship
was observed between reactivity and specific indices of parasympathetic or
sympathetic nervous system activity.

Â© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.23037 
PMCID: PMC6989041
PMID: 31515850  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

