

4325. Arch Toxicol. 1991;65(3):213-9.

Polyhalogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the immune system. 2. In 
vitro effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on lymphocytes of
venous blood from man and a non-human primate (Callithrix jacchus).

Neubert R(1), Jacob-Müller U, Helge H, Stahlmann R, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin,
Federal Republic of Germany.

The effect of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on poke weed
mitogen-stimulated proliferation and differentiation of peripheral lymphocytes
was studied in vitro with cells from a non-human primate (marmoset monkey,
Callithrix jacchus) and from man. Monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry
(FACScan) were used for analysis. The extent of the overall mitogen-stimulated
proliferation of isolated lymphocytes in vitro from marmoset blood was only
slightly reduced in the presence of TCDD compared to the solvent control (0.01%
DMSO). However, incubation with TCDD in the culture medium together with the
mitogen led to a pronounced decrease in the percentage of the lymphocyte subset
with the surface marker CD4, and a concomitant increase in the percentage of CD8+
cells. The lowest concentration found to be effective in vitro was 1 x 10(-13) M 
TCDD (25 fg TCDD/ml). When culturing lymphocytes from human blood of different
donors under identical conditions in the presence of TCDD and the mitogen,
corresponding effects were observed to those seen with marmoset cells. A closer
analysis of the T lymphocyte subsets affected revealed the CD4+ CDw29+
(helper-inducer cells) to be the main target for the action of TCDD. A clear-cut 
change in the percentage of this subpopulation was induced at concentrations as
low as 1 x 10(-13) M TCDD. The development of the IL-2-marker in culture was only
slightly affected by TCDD, and concentrations of 1 x 10(-12) M were required to
slightly reduce the number of CD2+CD25+ cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF02307311 
PMID: 1905127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

