

4335. Exp Brain Res. 1991;84(2):233-53.

Topographical and topological organization of the thalamocortical projection to
the striate and prestriate cortex in the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Dick A(1), Kaske A, Creutzfeldt OD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institute for Biophysical Chemistry,
GÃ¶ttingen-Nikolausberg, Federal Republic of Germany.

In eleven hemispheres of nine marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), we have
investigated the thalamo-cortical organization of the projections from the
pulvinar to the striate and prestriate cortex. In each experiment, single or
multiple injections of various retrograde fluorescent tracers were injected into 
adjacent regions or areas. In two experiments, horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was
injected into the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and the lateral pulvinar,
respectively. The results show that the thalamo-cortical projection from LGN to
striate cortex and from pulvinar to the prestriate cortex are similarly
organized, but the geniculo-striate projection is more precise than the
pulvinar-prestriate projection. The pulvinar-prestriate projection is
topographically organized and preserves topological neighbourhood relations.
Projection zones to the various visual areas are concentrically wrapped around
each other. The projection zone to area 18 constitutes a central core region. It 
begins ventro-laterally in PuL where the pulvinar is in contact with the LGN.
This contact zone we called the hilus region of the pulvinar. The area
18-projection zone stretches as a central cone into the posterior pulvinar
through PuL and into PuM. It is surrounded by the projection zone to the
posterior belt of area 19 and this in turn is surrounded by the projection zone
to the anterior belt of area 19. The projection zones to area 19 are then
surrounded medially and dorsally by zones projection to the temporal and parietal
association cortex, respectively. The projection zone to area MT is located
medio-ventrally in the posterior pulvinar (PuIP and surrounding nuclei) and
coincides with a densely myelinated region. Area 17 also receives input from the 
pulvinar but probably predominantly in the region of the central visual field.
The pulvinar zone projecting to area 17 is located ventrolaterally from the
central core region projecting to area 18 and is contiguous laterally with the
LGN. If the positions of the vertical and the horizontal meridian in the pulvinar
correspond to those in the respective cortical projection zones, a second order
visual field representation such as found in area 18, with the horizontal
meridian split at an eccentricity of about 7-10 degrees, can also be recognized
in the pulvinar.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00231444 
PMID: 1712314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

