

4344. J Reprod Fertil. 1990 Nov;90(2):563-70.

Nursing does affect the duration of the post-partum to ovulation interval in
cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus).

Ziegler TE(1), Widowski TM, Larson ML, Snowdon CT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

Reports on callitrichid monkeys have not revealed a significant effect of nursing
on interbirth intervals or on post-partum to ovulation intervals. We examined 25 
post-partum intervals in cotton-top tamarin females to determine whether nursing 
infants would affect the length of the post-partum to ovulation interval. Urinary
LH/CG and oestrone conjugates were measured in urine samples collected in the 6
weeks after birth. The post-partum to ovulation interval is the number of days
between parturition and the rise of urinary LH and oestrone conjugates associated
with ovulation. There was an 84% conception rate post partum. Neither mother's
parity nor sex of the infants influenced the length of the post-partum to
ovulation interval. The post-partum to ovulation interval for females nursing 2
infants was twice as long as for those not nursing or nursing 1 infant (P less
than 0.05). The range of post-partum to ovulation interval lengths was more
variable in nursing than in non-nursing females (P less than 0.01). Females spent
less than 50% of observed time in contact and less than 20% of observed time
nursing their infants. Neither the number of tamarins within the family nor the
amount of time the mother was in contact with infants correlated with the length 
of the post-partum to ovulation interval. However, there was a positive
correlation between the percentage time that mothers nursed 1 infant at a time
and the length of the post-partum to ovulation interval (r = 0.75, P less than
0.02). The underlying mechanisms of suckling-induced delay of ovulation are
present in the cotton-top tamarin as in other primate species. However, these
nursing effects do not cause the substantial delay in fertility post partum that 
is associated with non-callitrichid primates.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0900563 
PMID: 2174459  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

