

4349. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1990 Oct-Dec;85(4):459-67.

Experimental infection with Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis and Leishmania
(Leishmania) amazonensis in the marmoset, Callithrix penicillata
(Primates:Callithricidae).

Cuba CA(1), Ferreira V, Bampi M, Magalhães A, Marsden PD, Vexenat A, De Mello MT.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Parasitologia, Faculdade de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade de 
Brasília.

Fourteen marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) were inoculated intradermally with
promastigotes and/or amastigotes of Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis (L. (V) b.)
strains MHOM/BR/83/LTB-300 MHOM/BR/85/LTB-12 MHOM/BR/81/LTB-179 and
MHOM/BR/82/LTB-250. The evolution of subsequent lesions was studied for 15 to 75 
weeks post-inoculation (PI). All but 3 of the L. (V) b. injected marmosets
developed a cutaneous lesion at the point of inoculation after 3 to 9 weeks,
characterized by the appearance of subcutaneous nodules containing parasites.
Parasites were isolated by culture (Difco Blood Agar) from all 11 positive
animals. The maximum size of the lesions was variable and ranged between 37 mm2
to 107 mm2. Ulceration of primary nodules became evident after 3 to 12 weeks in
all infected marmosets, but was faster and larger in 5 of the 11 animals. The
active lesions persisted in 9 out of 11 Callithrix until the end of the
observation period, which varied from 15-75 weeks. In 3 animals spontaneous
healing of their lesions (13 to 25 weeks, PI) was observed but with cryptic
parasitism. In another 2 infected animals there was regression followed by
reactivation of the cutaneous lesions. The appearance of smaller satellite
lesions adjacent to primary ones, as well as metastatic lesions to the ear lobes,
were documented in 2 animals. Promastigotes of L. (Leishmania) amazonensis (L.
(L) a.) MHOM/BR/77/LTB-16 were inoculated in 1 marmoset. This animal remained
chronically infected for 6 months and the lesion developed in a similar manner to
L. (V) b. infected marmosets. No significant differences in clinical and
parasitological behaviour were observed between promastigote or amastigote
derived infections of the 2 species.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761990000400011 
PMID: 2152198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

