

4357. J Comp Neurol. 1990 Jul 8;297(2):165-81.

Distribution of two morphologically distinct subsets of serotoninergic axons in
the cerebral cortex of the marmoset.

Hornung JP(1), Fritschy JM, TÃ¶rk I.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, Lausanne, Switzerland.

The serotoninergic innervation of the marmoset (New World monkey, Callithrix
jacchus) cerebral cortex has been analyzed by using immunocytochemistry. The use 
of a sensitive monoclonal antibody against serotonin allowed the visualization of
the fine morphology of individual axons. Two types of terminal axons were
demonstrated: one has sparse, small, ovoid varicosities (dia. less than 1
micron), and the other has large, spheroidal varicosities (up to 5 microns in
dia.), which are more densely clustered. The first type of axon is distributed
through all cortical layers, with a characteristic laminar distribution that
varies from area to area. The second type of axons was distributed sparsely in
all regions but was markedly denser in the frontal and anterior parietal lobes,
and in the hippocampal formation. Axons with large varicosities typically
surrounded certain cell bodies and proximal dendrites, forming pericellular
arrays, or baskets. These morphological specializations were most frequent in the
frontal and anterior parietal cortex, where they were found around stellate and
horizontal cells in layer I and around stellate and bipolar cells in layer II and
III. Similar baskets were also found in the hippocampal formation, mainly along
the border between the hilus and the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus,
across the CA4 field, and at each side of the pyramidal cell layer of the CA3
regions. The distribution and cellular morphology of the cell surrounded by the
5-HT basket fibres were suggestive of a subpopulation of interneurons, possibly
GABAergic and/or peptidergic. In agreement with previous reports on the
innervation of the cerebral cortex of other mammalian species, the marmoset
cerebral cortex is innervated by two separate subsystems of serotoninergic axons.
One of these may have a strong and specific influence on the cortical inhibitory 
circuitry, via relay through cortical interneurons.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902970202 
PMID: 2115053  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

