

4360. Eur J Pharmacol. 1990 May 31;181(1-2):97-103.

1-Methyl-4-(2'-methylphenyl)-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (2'-methyl-MPTP) is less 
neurotoxic than MPTP in the common marmoset.

Rose S(1), Nomoto M, Jackson EA, Gibb WR, Jenner P, Marsden CD.

Author information: 
(1)Parkinson's Disease Society Experimental Research Laboratories, Biomedical
Sciences Division, King's College, London, U.K.

Four adult marmosets were treated with increasing doses of
1-methyl-4-(2'-methylphenyl)-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (2'-methyl-MPTP) in the
range 0.23-4.3 mg/kg i.p. to give a cumulative dose of 11.0-11.6 mg/kg over a
6-10 day period. After 4 days of treatment, and as the dosage was gradually
increased, the animals exhibited mild motor deficits. These abnormalities slowly 
declined over the following 1-6 week period. In contrast, similar treatment of
common marmosets with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (1-4
mg/kg i.p.) for 3-5 days in a cumulative dose of 6.9-9.2 mg/kg produced gross
impairment of motor function which persisted throughout the 5 weeks period of
observation. Administration of 2'-methyl-MPTP for 6-10 days caused some decrease 
in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), but not homovanillic acid
(HVA) content in the caudate nucleus in animals 5-6 weeks after the start of
treatment. There was a small decrease in [3H]dopamine uptake into putamen
synaptosomes. This contrasted with the marked decreases in all these parameters
observed after MPTP treatment of common marmosets. Histological examination of
the substantia nigra from the four animals treated with 2'-methyl-MPTP did not
show degeneration or loss of dopamine-containing cell bodies in the zona
compacta. In contrast, MPTP caused severe destruction of these pigmented nigral
neurones. In the common marmoset 2'-methyl-MPTP does not appear to show the same 
neurotoxic action as MPTP itself. This contrasts with findings in the mouse where
2'-methyl-MPTP is more toxic to dopamine-containing cells of substantia nigra
than MPTP.

DOI: 10.1016/0014-2999(90)90249-6 
PMID: 2117541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

