

4361. J Immunol. 1990 May 15;144(10):3726-35.

Genetically distinct cell populations in naturally occurring bone marrow-chimeric
primates express similar MHC class I gene products.

Watkins DI(1), Chen ZW, Hughes AL, Hodi FS, Letvin NL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, New England Regional Primate Research Center,
Southborough, MA 01772.

The cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus) is a naturally occurring "A" +
"B"----"A" bone marrow-chimeric species. These primates usually are born as
dizygotic twins and, due to placental vascular anastomoses, develop sharing each 
others' bone marrow elements. Strikingly, almost 50% of the PBL of a member of a 
twin pair are derived from the hematopoietic stem cells of its cotwin. To clarify
the mechanisms underlying the maintenance of tolerance in these stable chimeras, 
MHC gene products have been biochemically characterized in cloned, genetically
distinct, male and female lymphocytes from two male/female cotton-top tamarin
twin pairs. Extensive MHC class II sharing between the genetically distinct cell 
populations was not seen in the two twin pairs. This was consistent with the MHC 
class II polymorphism seen in the species. However, the MHC class I gene products
expressed by one member of a twin pair were almost identical to those expressed
by its cotwin. A human minisatellite probe demonstrated restriction fragment
length polymorphism in DNA from these animals, indicating extensive polymorphism.
Thus, MHC class I sharing did not occur due to inbreeding in these animals.
Additionally, another bone marrow-chimeric primate species, the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), expresses MHC class I molecules with low levels of
variation. These studies suggest that the stable chimerism of bone
marrow-chimeric primates may be facilitated by MHC class I similarity between the
genetically distinct bone marrow derived-cell populations in their circulation.


PMID: 2110210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

