

4362. J Endocrinol. 1990 May;125(2):233-9.

Pituitary-testicular function is suppressed by an LHRH antagonist but not by an
LHRH agonist in the marmoset monkey.

Lunn SF(1), Dixson AF, Sandow J, Fraser HM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

The use of pituitary desensitization by an LHRH agonist (buserelin) to examine
pituitary-testicular function was investigated in a New World primate. Six adult 
male marmoset monkeys were injected s.c. with an LHRH agonist implant (1.5 mg in 
a rod 0.5 cm long). Pharmacokinetics, determined by radioimmunoassay of urinary
buserelin, revealed a rapid initial release of the agonist followed by a steady
decline during a 200-day period. The LHRH agonist treatment resulted in a rapid
initial rise in plasma LH followed by a return to mean values similar to those
seen in the control samples by 7 days after implantation. Using the present
protocol, no evidence of subsequent pituitary desensitization or suppression of
testicular function was observed, plasma concentrations of LH and testosterone
remaining within the normal range during the 200-day study period. In contrast,
pituitary-testicular function was suppressed in the male marmoset after blockade 
of pituitary LHRH receptors by an LHRH antagonist. Five adults were treated with 
a single s.c. injection of the antagonist
[Ac-D-Nal(2)1,D-pCl-Phe2,D-Trp3,D-Ser(Rha)6,AzGlyNH2(10)]-LHRH at a dose of 300
micrograms/kg. The LHRH antagonist induced a marked suppression of plasma LH and 
testosterone by 6-8 h, the low levels being maintained for 24-48 h. These results
show that, whereas treatment with an LHRH antagonist can inhibit
pituitary-testicular function in the male marmoset, it may be that
desensitization cannot be induced by the LHRH agonist used.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1250233 
PMID: 2165119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

