

4363. Biol Reprod. 1990 May-Jun;42(5-6):808-14.

Suppression of bioactive luteinizing hormone and testosterone by a progesterone
antagonist ZK 98.734 in adult male common marmosets, Callithrix jacchus.

Kholkute SD(1), Patil RK, Sharma S, Elger WA, Puri CP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR)3 Parel, Bombay, India.

The effects of a progesterone antagonist ZK 98.734 on release of bioactive
luteinizing hormone (LH) and testosterone were studied in adult male common
marmosets by using the following experimental protocols: (1) the blocking of the 
nocturnal rise in testosterone levels by ZK 98.734, (2) the pharmacodynamic
effects of ZK 98.734 on testosterone and LH levels, (3) the reversal of ZK
98.734-induced decrease in testosterone by treatment with human chorionic
gonadotropin (hCG), and (4) the blocking of estradiol-induced positive feedback
release of LH by ZK 98.734. Sixteen adult male common marmosets were used for
different experiments after resting them for at least 4 wk between experiments.
Testosterone and bioactive LH levels were measured by specific radioimmunoassay
and in vitro bioassay methods, respectively. Treatment (i.m.) of male common
marmosets (n = 6/group) with ZK 98.734 (1 mg or 5 mg/day) at 1700 h for 3
consecutive days significantly (p less than 0.05) suppressed the nocturnal (2200 
h) rise in testosterone levels. The effects of the two doses were not
dose-related; however, the decrease on the first day of treatment was more
pronounced with the 5-mg dose than with the 1-mg dose. Diurnal rhythms were
restored during the post-treatment period. Similarly, treatment with ZK 98.734 (5
mg, n = 8/group) at 1000 h caused a decrease in testosterone and LH levels. The
levels were significantly (p less than 0.05) lower at 3 and 6 h after treatment
compared to pretreatment levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod42.5.808 
PMID: 2116922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

