

4376. Arch Toxicol. 1990;64(5):345-59.

Polyhalogenated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the immune system. 1.
Effects on peripheral lymphocyte subpopulations of a non-human primate
(Callithrix jacchus) after treatment with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin
(TCDD).

Neubert R(1), Jacob-Müller U, Stahlmann R, Helge H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxikologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

Monoclonal antibodies were used to analyse the effects of
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on peripheral lymphocytes from
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) following injections of single low doses of TCDD. 
A reduction of the percentage and the total number of lymphocytes among the white
blood cells was seen 3 weeks after a single administration of 300 ng TCDD/kg body
wt, but not following 167 ng TCDD/kg or less. After treatment of marmosets with
the single subcutaneous dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt. we observed an average
decrease of about 20% in the percentage of CD4+ cells in the venous blood of
treated animals. This change was not seen at the time of maximum absorption (2
weeks after the injection), but was demonstrable after 4 weeks and reached its
maximum 15 weeks after the injection. The time course of the changes suggests an 
indirect effect (possibly via the thymus). Due to the considerable inter- and
intra-individual variability in the number of peripheral lymphocytes the effect
was less convincing on the basis of the total CD4+ cells per microliter blood.
There was a significant concomitant increase in the percentage of cells with the 
CD8+ marker. A closer analysis of the lymphocyte subpopulation involved revealed 
a predominant effect on the cells with the CD4CDw29 ("leu 3a+4B4+") surface
marker ("helper-inducer cells"). Subsequent to a dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt
the percentage of these cells was reduced by 50% or more when compared with the
(24) controls. On an absolute basis (number of cell/microliter blood) these
CD4+CDw29+ cells were clearly reduced in only two out of four marmosets. There
was no significant effect on the percentage of the CD4+CD45R+ ("leu3a+2H4+")
subpopulation ("suppressor-inducer cells"). The ratios: CD4+CDw29+/CD4+CD45R+, or
CD4+CDw29+/CD8+ appear to be convenient measures for monitoring the effect
described. Since the difference between the percentage of CD2+ cells minus the
sum of CD4+ plus CD8+ cells was found to be increased following rather high doses
(167 ng TCDD/kg body wt or more), this suggests that immature cells (CD2+
CD4-CD8-) are released into the periphery as a result of the exposure to TCDD.
Furthermore, a decrease in the percentage of CD20+ (B1+) cells (about 50% when
compared with controls) was observed in the treated animals following a single
dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg body wt or higher. Subsequent to a dose of 10 ng TCDD/kg
body wt the percentage of CD56+ (NKH1+) cells seemed to be slightly increased.
The dose-response for the effects observed was rather poor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01973455 
PMID: 2403285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

