

4377. Exp Brain Res. 1990;81(1):1-17.

The topology of the thalamo-cortical projections in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

Brysch W(1), Brysch I, Creutzfeldt OD, Schlingensiepen R, Schlingensiepen KH.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Neurobiologie, Max-Planck-Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie,
Göttingen, Federal Republic of Germany.

This paper addresses the question of a general topological principle of
thalamo-cortical projections. In the lissencephalic primate brain of the common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), large injections of horseradish peroxidase were
made in various parts of the neocortex. These injections were placed in different
animals and hemispheres along various caudo-rostral and medio-lateral gradients. 
Labelled cells in the thalamus were plotted and the labelling-zones resulting
from several injections along a medio-lateral and two caudo-rostral cortical
vectors were drawn into semi-schematic thalamic maps. These composite maps reveal
a topological organization of the whole thalamo-cortical projection. The thalamic
representation of the caudo-rostral and medio-lateral gradients indicate a
rotation of the posterior relative to the anterior thalamus. An attempt is made
to relate the organization of the thalamo-cortical projection to the development 
of the thalamus and the cortex. The cortex is divided into concentric zones
around the sensory-motor and insular cortex. The thalamus is divided into
corresponding projection zones. The topology of thalamo-cortical connections can 
then be regarded as a consequence of corresponding thalamic and cortical growth
gradients. This is not only consistent with the general thalamo-cortical topology
and the inversion of maps from thalamus to cortex, but also explains the
continuity and overlap of thalamic projection zones in the pulvinar to widely
separated cortical areas as the parietal, temporal and frontal association
cortex.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00230095 
PMID: 2394218  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

