

4385. Acta Anat (Basel). 1990;138(3):212-9.

Immunofluorescence-microscopic localization of collagen type IV and VI, laminin
and nidogen in the livers of Callithrix jacchus during pre- and postnatal
development.

Xu DQ(1), Schr√∂ter-Kermani C, Hinz N, Merker HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Toxicology and Prenatal Pharmacology, Free University, Berlin.

The distribution of collagen type IV and VI, laminin and nidogen was investigated
by immunofluorescence microscopy in the livers of marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) 
at various stages of development, i.e. on days 93, 111, 116 and 134 of gestation,
1 day postpartum and at the mature stage. Large amounts of collagen type IV could
in all cases be demonstrated in the sinus wall and in all basal laminae outside
the lobule. After the application of antibodies against collagen type VI the
sinus wall showed a weak fluorescence reaction at the early stages and a strong
binding towards the end of gestation which persisted up to the adult stage. In
the periportal field it was mainly localized at the border between lobule and
connective tissue. Laminin also increased gradually but could be demonstrated
only until birth. In contrast, nidogen was present during the total prenatal and 
postnatal period. Therefore, collagen type IV and VI were not very suitable for
the demonstration of an increase in matrix components under pathological
conditions, because they occur already in large amounts in normal livers.
However, the occurrence of laminin that was missing in the adult liver must be
interpreted as pathological indication. The different occurrence of laminin and
nidogen showed that these two substances were expressed and regulated
independently of each other.

DOI: 10.1159/000146942 
PMID: 2117839  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

