

4400. J Reprod Fertil. 1989 Sep;87(1):301-10.

Changing responsiveness of luteal cells of the marmoset monkey (Callithrix
jacchus) to luteotrophic and luteolytic agents during normal and conception
cycles.

Webley GE(1), Richardson MC, Summers PM, Given A, Hearn JP.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Group, Institute of Zoology, London, UK.

Dispersed marmoset luteal cells were incubated for 2 h and progesterone
production measured after exposure to hCG, cloprostenol, dibutyryl cAMP, PGF-2
alpha, PGF-2, adrenaline or melatonin. The cells were studied on Days 6, 14 and
20 after ovulation in conception and non-conception cycles. Luteal cells from Day
14 non-pregnant marmosets were compared with human luteal cells taken in the
mid-luteal phase. All the treatments stimulated progesterone production including
cloprostenol, which is luteolytic when administered to the marmoset in vivo, but 
the degree of response varied with the stage of the cycle or pregnancy and
between marmoset and human luteal cells. In the marmoset, overall analysis of the
effect of the treatments showed that, on Day 6 after ovulation, there was no
significant effect of any of the treatments in cells from pregnant or
non-pregnant animals. In contrast, luteal cells from non-pregnant animals on Day 
14 showed a significant response to the treatments (F (8,41) = 2.79, P less than 
0.0145) whereas cells from pregnant Day-14 animals were responsive; in cells from
pregnant animals, the control production of progesterone was high and already
equivalent to the levels stimulated by the treatments. By Day 20, cells from
pregnant animals produced lower control concentrations of progesterone than did
those on Day 14 and there was a significant overall effect of the treatments (F
(8,33) = 3.78, P less than 0.003). These results show that the marmoset CL gains 
responsiveness to treatment between Days 6 and 14 after ovulation in the
non-pregnant cycle. In pregnancy, on Day 14, 2 days after attachment of the
embryo, the high control concentrations of progesterone and absence of response
to treatment suggest that an embryo message may have affected the CL, providing
an endogenous stimulus.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0870301 
PMID: 2560061  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

