

4401. Exp Lung Res. 1989 Sep;15(5):739-53.

Bronchoalveolar lavage desmosine in bleomycin-induced lung injury in marmosets
and patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome.

Idell S(1), Thrall RS, Maunder R, Martin TR, McLarty J, Scott M, Starcher BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Center, Tyler 75710

Measurement of urinary desmosine in experimental models of emphysema has been
used to demonstrate elastin catabolism. In order to evaluate the hypothesis that 
accelerated elastin degradation also occurs in association with acute lung injury
characterized by fibrotic repair, we prepared acid hydrolysates of lung lavage
(LL) and used a radioimmunoassay for desmosine to measure concentrations of this 
elastic-specific cross-link in LL. Lavage desmosine (pmol/100 microliter LL) was 
measured following bleomycin-induced lung injury in marmosets and was shown to be
elevated at 1 week (median 6.0, range 5.1-7.8), 2 weeks (8.4, 6.2-8.7), and 4
weeks (7.6, 4.8-7.8) compared to control levels (1.8, 1.4-3.7). Elevations of
lavage desmosine after bleomycin were temporarily associated with remodeling of
the lung as indicated by increased total lung collagen, reduced diffusing
capacity and lung compliance, and histologic evidence of pulmonary fibrosis.
Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) desmosine was measured in patients with the Adult
Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) and compared with patients at risk, patients
with other interstitial lung diseases, and normal healthy controls. BAL desmosine
(pmol/100 microliters) was not significantly different in patients with ARDS
(3.2, 2.1-3.0), patients at risk for ARDS (2.8, 2.5-4.4), and those with
interstitial lung disease (3.0, 1.7-5.3) compared to normal controls (2.9,
1.9-4.7). There were poor correlations of BAL desmosine with physiologic indices 
of severity of disease in patients with ARDS and those at risk. Accelerated
elastolysis occurred in the lower respiratory tract during the evaluation of
bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in marmosets but was undetectable in BAL of 
patients studied within the first 3 days of ARDS.

DOI: 10.3109/01902148909062858 
PMID: 2478359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

