

4417. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 1989 Jun 1;99(1):148-60.

Comparative studies on nafenopin-induced hepatic peroxisome proliferation in the 
rat, Syrian hamster, guinea pig, and marmoset.

Lake BG(1), Evans JG, Gray TJ, Körösi SA, North CJ.

Author information: 
(1)British Industrial Biological Research Association (BIBRA), Carshalton,
Surrey, England.

Nafenopin was administered orally for 21 days to male Sprague-Dawley rats (0.5-50
mg/kg/day), Syrian hamsters (5-250 mg/kg/day), Dunkin-Hartley guinea pigs (50 and
250 mg/kg/day), and marmosets (Callithrix jacchus, 50 and 250 mg/kg/day). With
the rat, and to a lesser extent in the hamster, nafenopin treatment produced
dose-related increases in liver size and induction of peroxisomal (palmitoyl-CoA 
oxidation) and microsomal (lauric acid 12-hydroxylase) fatty acid oxidizing
enzyme activities. In contrast, in the guinea pig and marmoset, there was no
effect on liver size and only comparatively small changes were observed in these 
enzyme activities. Ultrastructural examination of liver sections from
nafenopin-treated rats and hamsters revealed increased numbers of peroxisomes
many of which lacked the characteristic crystalline nucleoid. While nafenopin had
little effect on peroxisome numbers in either the guinea pig or marmoset,
increases in microsomal cytochrome P450 content and mixed function oxidase
activities were observed in these species. These results demonstrate marked
species differences in nafenopin-induced hepatic peroxisome proliferation with
the Syrian hamster being less responsive than the rat and the guinea pig and
marmoset being only weakly responsive. As nafenopin is a known hepatocarcinogen
in the rat, comparative long-term studies in poorly responsive species, such as
the guinea pig and marmoset, may help clarify the role of organelle proliferation
in the hepatocarcinogenicity of certain peroxisome proliferators.

DOI: 10.1016/0041-008x(89)90120-8 
PMID: 2499080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

