

442. Neuroimage. 2019 Nov 15;202:116147. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116147. Epub
2019 Aug 31.

Task-based fMRI of a free-viewing visuo-saccadic network in the marmoset monkey.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(2), Hori Y(2), Hayrynen LK(2), Johnston KD(3), Gati
JS(2), Menon RS(4), Everling S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address:
dschaeff@uwo.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute,
University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.
Electronic address: severling@uwo.ca.

Saccadic tasks are often used to index aberrations of cognitive function in
patient populations, with several neuropsychiatric and neurologic disorders
characterized by saccadic dysfunction. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
has received recent attention as an additional primate model for studying the
neural basis of these dysfunctions - marmosets are amenable to a host of genetic 
manipulation techniques and have a lissencephalic cortex, which is well suited
for a variety of recording techniques (e.g., calcium imaging, laminar
electrophysiology). Because the marmoset cortex is mostly lissencephalic,
however, the locations of frontal saccade-related regions (e.g., frontal eye
fields (FEF)) are less readily identified than in Old World macaque monkeys.
Further, although high quality histology-based atlases do exist for marmosets,
identifying these regions based on histology alone is not always accurate, with
the cytoarchitectonic boundaries often inconsonant with functional boundaries. As
such, there is a need to map the functional location of these regions directly.
Task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is of utility in this
regard, allowing for detection of whole-brain signal changes in response to
moving stimuli. Here, we conducted task-based fMRI in marmosets at ultra-high
field (9.4 T) during a free-viewing visuo-saccadic task. We also conducted the
same task in humans at ultra-high field (7 T) to validate that our simple task
was indeed evoking the visuo-saccadic circuitry we expected (as defined by a
meta-analysis of fMRI saccade studies). In the marmosets, we found that the task 
evoked a robust visuo-saccadic topology, with visual cortex (V1, V2, V3, V4)
activation extending ventrally to MT, MST, FST and dorsally into V6, 19M, 23V.
This topology also included putative cingulate eye field (area 32 and 24d),
posterior parietal cortex (with strongest activation in lateral intraparietal
area (LIP)), and a frontolateral peak in area 8 aV in marmosets, extending into
45, 46, 8aD, 6DR, 8c, 6 aV, 6DC. Overall, these results support the view that
marmosets are a promising preclinical modelling species for studying saccadic
dysfunction related to neuropsychiatric or neurodegenerative human brain
diseases.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116147 
PMID: 31479755  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

