

4428. Brain Res Dev Brain Res. 1989 Feb 1;45(2):169-77.

The distribution of glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin in postnatal
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain.

McDermott KW(1), Lantos PL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropathology, Institute of Psychiatry, London.

Antisera to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin were used to
elucidate the distribution of these intermediate filament proteins in postnatal
marmoset brains of various ages. The ependyma of the lateral ventricles was
unique in being equally immunoreactive for both GFAP and vimentin at all ages.
Vimentin alone was consistently demonstrated in endothelial and leptomeningeal
cells at all ages. In neonates, vimentin immunoreactivity greatly exceeded that
of GFAP and was located primarily in radial glia in the subependymal plate of the
anterior cerebrum. Their vimentin-positive processes formed thick fascicles in
the corpus callosum but separated into fine fibres on entering the cortex. GFAP
immunoreactivity in these cells and processes was very limited. With age,
GFAP-positive cells increased in number and displayed the typical stellate
appearance of astroglia. The vimentin-positive radial glial population decreased 
considerably during this period and by 6 months had virtually disappeared. The
GFAP reaction in adult brain was even more widespread, largely due to the
increased number of positive astrocytes in the white matter. Vimentin
immunoreactivity in the adult was greatly diminished and positive radial glia
were not detectable. A major change in intermediate filament protein expression, 
therefore, occurs in the early postnatal period and probably reflects phases in
the differentiation of radial glial precursors into astrocytes.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-3806(89)90036-9 
PMID: 2496940  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

