

443. J Neurosci. 2019 Oct 9;39(41):8024-8037. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0895-19.2019.
Epub 2019 Aug 28.

Mice Discriminate Stereoscopic Surfaces Without Fixating in Depth.

Samonds JM(1), Choi V(2), Priebe NJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Learning and Memory, Center for Perceptual Systems, and The
Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712 samondjm@gmail.com.
(2)Center for Learning and Memory, Center for Perceptual Systems, and The
Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712.

Stereopsis is a ubiquitous feature of primate mammalian vision, but little is
known about if and how rodents such as mice use stereoscopic vision. We used
random dot stereograms to test for stereopsis in male and female mice, and they
were able to discriminate near from far surfaces over a range of disparities,
with diminishing performance for small and large binocular disparities. Based on 
two-photon measurements of disparity tuning, the range of disparities represented
in the visual cortex aligns with the behavior and covers a broad range of
disparities. When we examined their binocular eye movements, we found that,
unlike primates, mice did not systematically vary relative eye positions or use
vergence eye movements when presented with different disparities. Nonetheless,
the representation of disparity tuning was wide enough to capture stereoscopic
information over a range of potential vergence angles. Although mice share
fundamental characteristics of stereoscopic vision with primates and carnivores, 
their lack of disparity-dependent vergence eye movements and wide neuronal
representation suggests that they may use a distinct strategy for
stereopsis.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Binocular vision allows us to derive depth
information by comparing right and left eye information. We characterized
binocular integration in mice because tools exist in these animals to dissect the
underlying neural circuitry for binocular vision. Using random dot stereograms,
we find that behavior and disparity tuning in the visual cortex share fundamental
characteristics with primates, but we did not observe any evidence of
disparity-dependent changes in vergence angle. We propose that mice use a
distinct strategy of stereopsis compared with primates by using a broad range of 
disparities to encode depth over a large field of view and to compensate for
nonstereoscopic changes in vergence angle that arise during natural behavior.

Copyright Â© 2019 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0895-19.2019 
PMCID: PMC6786824
PMID: 31462533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

