

4442. J Hirnforsch. 1989;30(3):375-84.

Differences in transneuronal transport of horseradish peroxidase conjugated wheat
germ agglutinin in the visual system: marmoset monkey and guinea pig compared.

Spatz WB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, University of Freiburg, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

Conjugates of the lectin wheat germ agglutinin with horseradish peroxidase have
been described as effective transneuronal tracers in different neuronal systems
of various mammalian species. Here, the failure is described to detect any sign
of transneuronal transport of the tracer in the visual system of adult marmoset
monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), in spite of heavy anterograde labeling in the
primary visual centers after intravitreous injections. In contrast, in the brains
of guinea pigs processed by identical technical parameters, transneuronal
anterograde labeling was readily recognized in the contralateral striate cortex, 
thalamic reticular nucleus, and parabigeminal nucleus. Furthermore, transneuronal
retrograde labeling of cell bodies was evident in the thalamic reticular and
paragibeminal nuclei, and in the striate cortico-geniculate and
cortico-collicular cells. The transneuronal labeling of the cell bodies in the
guinea pig striate cortex, which has not been demonstrated before, is taken as a 
measure for the sensitivity of the histological procedures applied. The failure
to demonstrate transneuronal labeling in the marmoset monkey, thus, appears to
indicate an interspecies difference in the mechanisms of transneuronal transfer
of the tracer used. Positive results in other mammalian species such as other
rodents, cat, and Old World monkeys, as obtained in this and other laboratories, 
further support this view.


PMID: 2473107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

