

4455. Biochem Pharmacol. 1988 Aug 1;37(15):2939-48.

Hydrolysis of the four stereoisomers of soman catalyzed by liver homogenate and
plasma from rat, guinea pig and marmoset, and by human plasma.

de Jong LP(1), van Dijk C, Benschop HP.

Author information: 
(1)Prins Maurits Laboratory TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

Stereoselective hydrolysis at pH 7.5 and 37 degrees of C(+/-)P(+/-)-soman by
liver homogenate and plasma from rat, guinea pig and marmoset, and by human
plasma is studied by using the four single stereoisomers. The fast hydrolysis of 
the C(+/-)P(+)-isomers is monitored titrimetrically, whereas the decay of the
much slower reacting C(+/-)P(-)-isomers is followed by gas chromatographic
determination of the residual concentration. Values of Km and Vmax are evaluated 
for the enzymatic hydrolysis of the two relatively nontoxic C(+/-)P(+)-isomers.
The plasma enzymes have a high affinity for these isomers (Km: 0.01-0.04 mM); the
Km values of the liver enzymes vary between 0.04 and 0.7 mM. Except for rat liver
homogenate, only first-order rate constants can be obtained for catalyzed
hydrolysis (kc) of the highly toxic C(+/-)P(-)-isomers: most measurements with
C(+/-)P(-)-isomer concentrations greater than 0.3 mM are complicated by
epimerization to C(+/-)P(+)-isomers, which may conceal enzyme saturation with the
C(+/-)P(-)-isomers. The first-order rate constants of catalyzed hydrolysis
(Vmax/Km or kc) by all liver homogenates and plasmata decrease in the order:
C(+)P(+)- greater than C(-)P(+)- much greater than C(-)P(-)- greater than
C(+)P(-)-soman. The highest P(+)-/P(-)-stereoselectivity is found for rat plasma.
Rat liver homogenate is more potent than the other liver homogenates in
catalyzing the hydrolysis of both the C(+/-)P(+)- and the C(+/-)P(-)-isomers. Rat
plasma shows the highest activity for degradation of the C(+/-)P(+)-isomers, but 
is approximately as active as marmoset and human plasma for degradation of the
C(+/-)P(-)-isomers.

DOI: 10.1016/0006-2952(88)90279-1 
PMID: 3395367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

