

4456. J Endocrinol. 1988 Aug;118(2):259-64.

Effects of acute stress on the patterns of LH secretion in the common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

O'Byrne KT(1), Lunn SF, Dixson AF.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Reproductive Biology Unit, Centre for Reproductive Biology, Edinburgh.

Stressful stimuli associated with aggressive encounters and low social rank may
affect female fertility in a variety of mammalian species. In these experiments
we examined the effects of aggressive encounters and physical restraint in a
primate chair on the patterns of LH secretion in ovariectomized, oestrogen-primed
female marmosets. Receipt of aggression from a female conspecific, followed by
physical restraint for collection of blood samples (at 10-min intervals for 4 h),
resulted in marked declines in LH concentrations during oestradiol-induced LH
surges in five animals (from 112 +/- 24 micrograms/l to 45 +/- 12 micrograms/l;
group means +/- S.E.M.; P less than 0.05). This was due to reductions in LH pulse
amplitude rather than to changes in pulse frequency. Decreases in plasma
concentrations of LH were reversed by treating females with exogenous
LH-releasing hormone (LHRH). Cortisol treatment had no effect on LH levels during
oestrogen-induced LH surges. Effects of aggressive encounters and physical
restraint on plasma LH were not therefore due to reduced pituitary responsiveness
to LHRH or to increased plasma concentrations of cortisol. In separate
experiments it was found that physical restraint alone had no effect on plasma LH
in habituated subjects, and that decreases in plasma LH after receipt of
aggression only occurred if animals were subsequently placed in the restraint
chair. A summation of stressful effects is therefore required to produce the fall
in circulating LH. A summation of social and other environmental stressors may
also underlie the reduced fertility seen in free-living animals.

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1180259 
PMID: 3139816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

