

4457. Dig Dis Sci. 1988 Aug;33(8):1013-9.

Effect of various biological factors on spontaneous marmoset and tamarin colitis.
A retrospective histopathologic study.

Clapp NK(1), Henke ML, Lushbaugh CC, Humason GL, Gangaware BL.

Author information: 
(1)Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Medical and Health Sciences Division,
Tennessee 37831-0117.

Histological sections of colons from 69 tamarins (46 Saguinus oedipus and 23
Saguinus fuscicollis illigeri) and 27 marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that died
between 1979 and 1984 were examined for colitis. Evaluated biological factors
were species, age at death, source of animals, manner of death, presence of colon
cancer, and time after importation. Most normal colons were found in young
animals (dead at less than 1 years of age). Nearly all (approximately 96%)
animals had colitis; 70-80% of most groups were graded as chronic colitis.
Usually, one grade adequately described the condition of the entire colon. The
strongest observed correlation of factors (P less than 0.05) was between acute
colitis and colon cancer in S. oedipus. A higher percentage of S. oedipus had
acute colitis than did the other two species. When colitis incidence data were
adjusted for S. oedipus with colon cancer, there were no observed species
differences between colons of colony-born and imported animals nor between those 
that died naturally and those that were euthanized. In an additional group of 18 
S. oedipus that were imported in 1975, acute colitis was found in 60% of those
dying immediately after importation (less than 1 year of colony age) and those
that survived greater than 3 years. At this time, no causative agent has been
identified in marmoset colitis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01535999 
PMID: 3134175  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

