

4462. Endocrinology. 1988 Jun;122(6):2780-7.

Factors influencing follicle-stimulating hormone-responsive steroidogenesis in
marmoset granulosa cells: effects of androgens and the stage of follicular
maturity.

Harlow CR(1), Shaw HJ, Hillier SG, Hodges JK.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School,
Hammersmith Hospital, London, United Kingdom.

Preovulatory changes in the steroidogenic function of primate granulosa cells
were studied using the cyclic marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) as a model. Antral
follicles (greater than or equal to 0.5 mm diameter) were dissected from mid-late
follicular phase ovaries (7 days after prostaglandin-induced luteolysis) and
classified by diameter as small (0.5-1.0 mm), medium (1.1-1.9 mm) or large
(greater than or equal to 2.0 mm). Granulosa cells from follicles in each size
category were isolated and pooled to assess steroid biosynthesis. The aromatase
activity of freshly isolated granulosa cells from large follicles was 200 times
greater than that of small follicles, confirming their relatively advanced
preovulatory status. Granulosa cells were cultured for 48 h in the presence and
absence of human (h) FSH (0.1 ng/ml), with and without 0.1 microM androgen
(testosterone or 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone), to assess basal and
hormone-responsive steroidogenesis (progesterone accumulation in culture medium
and aromatase activity in washed granulosa cell monolayers). Basal granulosa cell
steroidogenesis increased with follicular size, and there was a
development-related pattern of response to hFSH and androgen. hFSH responsiveness
(maximum fold-stimulation induced by hFSH) declined with follicular size, being
2-6 times greater for granulosa cells from small vs. large follicles. On the
other hand, hFSH sensitivity increased with follicular size; the dose of hFSH
giving 50% of the maximum response (ED50) for cells from large follicles being
10-20 times less than that of cells from small follicles. For granulosa cells
from small follicles, treatment with 0.1 microM androgen in the presence of hFSH 
led to dramatic (up to 16-fold) enhancement of steroidogenic responses to hFSH.
In contrast, for granulosa cells from large follicles, the presence of androgen
substantially inhibited aromatase activity stimulated by hFSH and had weak
inhibitory effects on progesterone accumulation. These results show that
granulosa cell steroidogenesis becomes increasingly sensitive to hFSH during
preovulatory follicular development in marmosets. The marked ability of androgen 
to directly augment hFSH-responsive steroidogenesis in vitro is lost during
preovulatory development, such that androgen acts in mature granulosa cells to
suppress hFSH-stimulated aromatase activity. These observations are evidence of
development-dependent changes in granulosa cell responses to FSH and androgens
which may contribute to the control of preovulatory follicular development in
primates.

DOI: 10.1210/endo-122-6-2780 
PMID: 3131124  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

