

4465. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1988 May;76(1):39-48.

Anatomical brain asymmetries in New World and Old World monkeys: stages of
temporal lobe development in primate evolution.

Heilbroner PL(1), Holloway RL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, Columbia University New York, New York 10027.

Erratum in
    Am J Phys Anthropol 1988 Sep;77(1):141.

Relatively large (n = 20-30) samples of formalin-fixed brain specimens from five 
Old and New World monkey species were examined in a study measuring anatomical
temporal-lobe asymmetries. Linear measurements of the length of the Sylvian
fissure were taken on each cerebral hemisphere to evaluate lateral differences
related to development of auditory association cortex. The results indicate
significantly greater Sylvian fissure length on the left hemisphere than on the
right hemisphere in four of these species. Measurements of a different parameter 
on Saimiri sciureus brain specimens (length of anterior portion of the Sylvian
fissure) also suggested temporal-lobe asymmetry favoring the left hemisphere.
Other measurements (length of the Sylvian fissure lying posterior to the central 
sulcus, and dorso-ventral position of the Sylvian point) in Macaca mulatta and M.
fascicularis did not reveal significant right/left-hemisphere differences.
Sylvian-fissure length determined from photographs of M. mulatta hemispheres in
contrast to results of direct measurements did not yield significant
right/left-hemisphere asymmetry. We mention possible reasons why previous
anatomical studies of brains from monkeys did not discern temporal-lobe
asymmetry, and we also discuss whether or not certain of these asymmetries in
monkeys foreshadowed the evolution of language-processing areas of the cerebral
cortex in hominids.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.1330760105 
PMID: 3136655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

