

4469. Biol Reprod. 1988 Apr;38(3):528-35.

Effect of antiprogestin ZK 98.734 on the ovarian cycle, early pregnancy, and on
its binding to progesterone receptors in the myometrium of marmoset Callithrix
jacchus.

Puri CP(1), Kholkute SD, Pongubala JM, Patil RK, Elger WA, Jayaraman S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Reproduction (ICMR), Parel, Bombay, India.

The antiprogestin ZK 98.734 (11 beta-(4-dimethylaminophenyl-17 beta-hydroxy-17
alpha-(3-hydroxy-prop-1(Z)-enyl-4,9(10)-estradien-3-one) was administered i.m. (5
mg/day) for three consecutive days to two groups of common marmosets. In one
group (nonpregnant, n = 6), it was injected during the luteal phase, and to the
second group (pregnant, n = 7), it was injected during early pregnancy, on Days
24-26 of the mid-cycle estradiol peak. Administration of ZK 98.734 during the
luteal phase caused a sharp drop in plasma progesterone levels. The luteal phase 
was shortened whether the drug was administered during the early or the late
luteal phase. Similarly, administration of ZK 98.734 during early pregnancy
caused a significant drop in progesterone levels, and pregnancy was terminated in
all of the animals. The post-treatment cycles in both groups of animals were
ovulatory and of normal duration. 3H-ZK 98.734 showed specific binding to
myometrial cytosol fraction. ZK 98.734 also displaced the binding of
3H-progesterone to progesterone receptors. However, progesterone had higher
binding affinity than did ZK 98.734. The antifertility action of ZK 98.734 could 
be a result either of its luteolytic action or of its blocking the progesterone
receptors in the target tissue. This study, therefore, indicates that in the
common marmoset ZK 98.734 is a progesterone antagonist with a potential to
terminate early pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod38.3.528 
PMID: 3132210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

