

4475. Cell Tissue Res. 1988 Mar;251(3):621-31.

Ultrastructure of the meninges at the site of penetration of veins through the
dura mater, with particular reference to Pacchionian granulations. Investigations
in the rat and two species of New-World monkeys (Cebus apella, Callitrix
jacchus).

Krisch B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anatomisches Institut der Universit√§t Kiel, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

At the sites where a vein penetrates through the dura mater, two aspects deserve 
particular attention: (i) The delineation of the perivascular cleft, a space
belonging to the interstitial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) compartment, toward the
interior hemal milieu of the dura mater. (ii) The relationship between the
perivascular arachnoid layer and the subdural neurothelium at the point of
vascular penetration. These problems were investigated in the rat and in two
species of New-World monkeys (Cebus apella, Callitrix jacchus). Concerning the
first aspect, tight appositions of meningeal cells to the vessel wall, the basal 
lamina of which is widened and enriched with microfibrils, prevent communication 
between the interstitial CSF in the perivascular cleft and the hemal milieu in
the dura mater. With reference to the second aspect, the perivascular arachnoid
cells are transformed into neurothelial cells at the point where they become
exposed to the hemal milieu of the dura mater and subsequently continuous with
the subdural neurothelium. Leptomeningeal protrusions encompassing outer CSF
space can penetrate into the dura mater. These protrusions may expand and branch 
repeatedly, forming along the wall of the dural sinus Pacchionian granulations.
At these sites, however, the structural integrity of the sinus wall and the
Pacchionian granulation is not lost. Numerous vesiculations not only in the sinus
and vascular walls, but also in the cellular arrays of the Pacchionian
granulations or paravascular leptomeningeal protrusions indicate mechanisms of
transcellular fluid transport. Moreover, the texture of the leptomeningeal
protrusions favors an additional function of these structures as a "volume"
buffer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00214011 
PMID: 3130190  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

