

4476. J Reprod Fertil. 1988 Mar;82(2):743-52.

Induction of luteal regression in the marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus) by a
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone antagonist and the effects on subsequent
follicular development.

Hodges JK(1), Green DI, Cottingham PG, Sauer MJ, Edwards C, Lightman SL.

Author information: 
(1)MRC/AFRC Comparative Physiology Research Group, Institute of Zoology, London, 
U.K.

Doses of 100 or 200 micrograms of a novel GnRH antagonist ([N-acetyl-D beta
Na11-D-pCl-Phe2-D-Phe3-D-Arg6-Phe7-Arg8-D-Ala10]NH2 GnRH) (4 animals/dose) were
administered on Days 10/11 of the luteal phase and induced a marked suppression
of circulating bioactive LH and progesterone concentrations within 1 day of
treatment (P less than 0.01). Thereafter, progesterone concentrations remained
low or undetectable until after the next ovulation. Similar results were obtained
when 200 micrograms antagonist were given on Days 5/6 of the luteal phase (N =
4). The interval from injection of antagonist (200 micrograms but not 100
micrograms) to ovulation (based on a rise in progesterone above 10 ng/ml) was
significantly longer than that from prostaglandin-induced luteal regression to
ovulation in control cycles (N = 4/treatment) (range, 13-15 days after antagonist
vs 8-10 days after prostaglandin, P less than 0.01). This delay of 4-5 days was
equivalent to the duration for which LH concentrations were significantly
suppressed by 200 micrograms antagonist when administered to ovariectomized
animals (N = 3). Corpus luteum function during the cycle after GnRH antagonist
treatment appeared normal according to the pattern of circulating progesterone.
These results show that corpus luteum function and preovulatory follicular
development in the marmoset monkey are dependent on pituitary gonadotrophin
secretion.

DOI: 10.1530/jrf.0.0820743 
PMID: 3129559  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

