

4478. J Comp Neurol. 1988 Feb 8;268(2):234-47.

Postnatal development of dendrites of relay neurons in the lateral geniculate
nucleus of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus): a quantitative Golgi study.

Fritschy JM(1), Garey LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy, University of Lausanne, Switzerland.

Dendrites of multipolar relay neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), at various ages from birth to adulthood, were
studied in rapid Golgi preparations. The dendrites were analyzed by means of
three-dimensional computer reconstructions and decomposed into intermediate and
terminal segments, both of which were further classified according to their
centrifugal order. Measurements were made of the number of segments per dendrite,
the total length of dendrites, and the mean length of intermediate and terminal
segments. In adult marmosets, there are four stem dendrites on average per
neuron, and each dendrite divides into a mean of 14 segments. Between birth and 6
weeks of age, the mean dendritic length doubles, mainly because of changes in
terminal segments. There is a significant decrease in dendritic length into
adulthood. The total number of stem dendrites does not change after birth, but
during the first postnatal week dendrites lose distal segments, after which there
is a significant increase in the number of segments of orders 3 to 7. The mean
length of intermediate segments does not change with age, nor with order, whereas
the length of terminal segments increases from 50 to 120 microns from birth to 6 
weeks of age, and then decreases to the adult value of 80 microns. In conclusion,
during the period of most rapid visual development, important morphological
changes occur in geniculate relay-cell dendrites, involving essentially terminal 
segments. These observations correlate well with changes of geniculate volume and
neuronal density.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902680208 
PMID: 3129457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

