

4479. Toxicology. 1988 Feb;48(2):209-24.

Chronic toxicity of 3,4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl in the marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus).

van den Berg KJ(1), Zurcher C, Brouwer A, van Bekkum DW.

Author information: 
(1)Radiobiological Institute TNO, Rijswijk, The Netherlands.

Cotton top marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were orally dosed with 3, 1, 0.1
or 0 mg 3,4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB)/kg body weight twice per week for
18-23 weeks. Severe toxicity occurred in the highest dose group. Clinical signs
of toxicity were a rapid decrease in body weight, alopecia, abnormal nail growth,
nodular enlargement of the nipple area and scaly skin. Haematological analysis of
peripheral blood revealed mild leukocytosis and anemia. Biochemical alterations
observed were elevated triglyceride levels and cholesterol levels. Histopathology
revealed dose dependent changes in a variety of tissues. Squamous metaplasia was 
found in skin and adnexa as well as in salivary glands. In the stomach, parietal 
cells were decreased and mucus producing cells were increased. The duodenal
mucosa was hyperplastic. Ovaries showed an absence of corpora lutea. In the
thyroid follicular cell hyperplasia and hypertrophy were noted. Toxicity was less
severe in marmoset monkeys dosed with 1 mg TCB/kg, while minor toxic effects were
observed in the animals dosed with 0.1 mg TCB/kg. The marmoset monkey appears to 
be less sensitive to the toxic action of TCB than the rhesus monkey. The pattern 
of histological and biochemical changes induced by TCB in marmoset monkeys is
comparable to that described in humans and in other primate species exposed to
PCBs. The marmoset monkey model may be valuable for investigations on
human-related toxicity of PCBs.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-483x(88)90102-3 
PMID: 3124295  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

