

4480. J Med Virol. 1988 Feb;24(2):229-36.

Long-term protection against Argentine hemorrhagic fever in Tacaribe virus
infected marmosets: virologic and histopathologic findings.

Samoilovich SR(1), Calello MA, Laguens RP, Weissenbacher MC.

Author information: 
(1)Cátedra de Microbiología, Parasitología e Inmunología, Facultad de Medicina,
Universidad Nacional de Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Tacaribe virus may represent a better alternative than attenuated strains of
Junin virus (JV) for immunization against Argentine hemorrhagic fever (AHF)
because of possible risk of persistent infection of disease associated with live,
attenuated strains. Callithrix jacchus marmosets, which suffer 100% mortality if 
inoculated with the pathogenic XJ strain of JV, were used to evaluate possible
Tacaribe virus persistence, subclinical, or long-term disease and the duration of
protection against challenge with JV. Histologic studies did not show pathogenic 
changes due to Tacaribe virus in primates sacrificed from 7 to 480 days
postinoculation (pi). No virus was recovered in tissue samples after primary
culture or cocultures with sensitive cells. The presence of anti-Tacaribe
neutralizing serum antibodies and protection against pathogenic JV were detected 
up to 480 days after a single dose of Tacaribe virus. However, anti-Junin
antibodies were detected only after challenge. In other experiments, protection
against JV was evaluated histologically and virologically. Two primates were
immunized with Tacaribe virus, challenged with JV, and sacrificed 18 or 21 days
later. Subclinical histopathologic findings were associated with recovery of JV
only by the sensitive primary culture-coculture techniques. The immunogenicity,
degree of protection, and safety of Tacaribe virus indicate its potential as a
vaccine against human AHF.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890240213 
PMID: 2832541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

