

4482. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1988 Jan 22;937(2):347-58.

The influence of dietary lipid supplementation on cardiac beta-adrenergic
receptor adenylate cyclase activity in the marmoset monkey.

McMurchie EJ(1), Patten GS, McLennan PL, Charnock JS, Nestel PJ.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO (Australia), Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne
Laboratory,O'Halloran Hill.

Dietary lipid supplements high in either saturated fat derived from sheep kidney 
fat or unsaturated fat derived from sunflower seed oil, and a low mixed fat
reference diet were fed to marmoset monkeys for 20 months and the effects on
cardiac membrane lipid composition, and myocardial catecholamine-stimulated
adenylate cyclase and beta-adrenergic receptor binding activity were
investigated. For cardiac membranes enriched for beta-adrenergic binding
activity, the dietary lipid treatment resulted in small changes in the proportion
of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids and substantial changes in the (n - 6) to
(n - 3) series of unsaturated fatty acids in the membrane phospholipids. The
sheep kidney fat diet increased the cholesterol-to-phospholipid ratio in cardiac 
membranes in comparison to the other diets. This diet also significantly elevated
basal and isoproterenol-, epinephrine- and norepinephrine-stimulated adenylate
cyclase activity. The value of the dissociation constant (Kd) and the receptor
number (Bmax) for the binding of [125I]ICYP to the beta-adrenergic receptor was
significantly reduced in marmosets fed the sheep kidney fat diet. These results
suggest that dietary lipids can influence the activity of the
beta-adrenergic/adenylate cyclase system of the heart. Modulation of this
transmembrane signalling system may be induced by changes in the properties of
the associated membrane lipids, particularly by alteration in the membrane
cholesterol-to-phospholipid ratio. This effect may be limited to those animal
species in which the nature of the dietary fatty acid intake may be influencing
cardiac membrane cholesterol homeostasis, which is in agreement with previous
results in rats following dietary cholesterol supplementation (McMurchie et al.
(1987) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 898, 137-153). ICYP, (-)-iodocyanopindolol.

DOI: 10.1016/0005-2736(88)90257-x 
PMID: 2827774  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

