

4498. Arch Toxicol. 1988;62(2-3):200-4.

The enantiomers of the teratogenic thalidomide analogue EM 12: 1. Chiral
inversion and plasma pharmacokinetics in the marmoset monkey.

Schmahl HJ(1), Nau H, Neubert D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Toxicologie und Embryopharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin.

The plasma pharmacokinetics of the enantiomers of
2-(2,6-dioxopiperidine-3-yl)-phthalimidine (EM 12) and the racemic mixture of
this substance were investigated in Callithrix jacchus, a thalidomide-sensitive
primate. Single doses of 5 mg/kg body wt were administered orally or
intraperitoneally. Maximum plasma concentrations were reached 1 h after
administration of the enantiomers, and 3 h after application of the racemate. The
mean plasma elimination half-life was in the range of 5 h for the enantiomers, as
well as for the racemic mixture, although there was a tendency toward slower
elimination and higher plasma AUC values of the S-enantiomer: thus, after
administration of the (greater than 99%) pure enantiomers, the plasma AUC value
of the administered S-enantiomer was found to be more than one-third higher than 
that of the administered R-enantiomer. Racemisation of the R- and the S-form of
EM 12 occurred both in vitro (phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, 37 degrees C) and in
vivo. The maximum plasma concentrations of the antipodes produced via chiral
inversion were between 13% and 21%; the plasma AUC values of the resulting
antipodes were between 24% and 30% of the corresponding values of total EM 12.
The plasma pharmacokinetic data, including the extent of the chiral inversion
obtained after p.o. and i.p. application of the substances, were in the same
range. The results indicate that both enantiomers racemise with appreciable
rates; this may be expected to complicate the interpretation of studies designed 
to evaluate stereoselective differences with respect to teratological activities 
of EM 12 and related substances such as thalidomide.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00570140 
PMID: 3143339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

