

4508. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1987 Sep;10(3):293-300.

Dietary lipid modulation of myocardial beta-adrenergic mechanisms, Ca2+-dependent
automaticity, and arrhythmogenesis in the marmoset.

McLennan PL(1), Abeywardena MY, Charnock JS, McMurchie EJ.

Author information: 
(1)C.S.I.R.O. Division of Human Nutrition, Glenthorne Laboratory, O'Halloran
Hill, Australia.

Dietary lipid supplements high in either saturated fatty acids derived from sheep
perirenal fat or polyunsaturated fatty acids (65% linoleic acid) derived from
sunflower seed oil were fed to marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) for 20
months. The effect of these long-term dietary lipid supplements on myocardial
contractile function and their influence on responses to isoprenaline and
external calcium concentration were examined using isolated papillary muscles and
atria. Isoprenaline potency was increased by the sheep fat-supplemented diet,
which induced significant three- to eightfold leftward parallel shifts of
isoprenaline dose-response curves for papillary muscle and left atrial inotropy
and right atrial chronotropy. The antagonist potency of propranolol was not
influenced by diet. The incidence of isoprenaline-induced spontaneous
tachyarrhythmias in electrically driven papillary muscles and left atria was
reduced by the sunflower seed oil-supplemented diet and increased by the sheep
fat diet, as were the spontaneous beat rate and calcium-dependent automaticity of
right atria. These results show that dietary lipids can significantly modify
stimulus-response coupling and alter the susceptibility to arrhythmogenesis in
the heart of the nonhuman primate, and indicate that nutritional interventions
may modify responses to cardioactive drugs as well as influence the development
of cardiac disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-198709000-00007 
PMID: 2444777  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

