

4512. J Nutr Sci Vitaminol (Tokyo). 1987 Aug;33(4):299-312.

The influence of linoleate and vitamin E from sunflower seed oil on platelet
function and prostaglandin production in the common marmoset monkey.

McIntosh GH(1), Bulman FH, Looker JW, Russell GR, James M.

Author information: 
(1)CSIRO Division of Human Nutrition, Adelaide, Australia.

Vitamin E and linoleate, both of which are found in high concentrations in
sunflower seed oil, were examined independently for their influence on general
and blood-vascular parameters in vitamin E-deficient common marmosets. A vitamin 
E-deficient diet (-E, 4 micrograms/g) was supplemented with either 40
micrograms/g vitamin E (+E), vitamin E stripped sunflower oil (+10% SSO-E), or
SSO (+10% SSO w/w) in a 2 x 2 factorial designed experiment, and the diets fed
for 9 months to 4 even groups of common marmosets. Vitamin E deficiency was
associated in marmosets with a loss of skeletal muscle mass and of body weight,
enhanced peroxidative haemolysis of erythrocytes, increased white blood cell
counts, and in the SSO-E group a relative neutrophilia. Platelet reactivity was
increased with vitamin E deficiency, and to a greater degree with the SSO-E
group. Aortic prostacyclin production was significantly increased by the addition
of vitamin E, linoleate and both as SSO to the deficient diet, the effects being 
additive. Fatty acid changes associated with the different treatments reflected
the influence of high linoleate and vitamin E treatments. The platelet and aortic
arachidonate value in the SSO-E group showed the lowest and most variable value, 
and this was associated with greatest platelet aggregability. An adequate vitamin
E intake is essential for stabilising high PUFA diets and biomembranes and
enhancing the protective role of prostacyclin in blood vessels against
thrombogenesis.

DOI: 10.3177/jnsv.33.299 
PMID: 3437342  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

