

452. Brain Behav Evol. 2019;93(2-3):92-107. doi: 10.1159/000500500. Epub 2019 Aug 15.

Critique of Pure Marmoset.

Preuss TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,
USA, tpreuss@emory.edu.

The common marmoset, a New World (platyrrhine) monkey, is currently being
fast-tracked as a non-human primate model species, especially for genetic
modification but also as a general-purpose model for research on the brain and
behavior bearing on the human condition. Compared to the currently dominant
primate model, the catarrhine macaque monkey, marmosets are notable for certain
evolutionary specializations, including their propensity for twin births, their
very small size (a result of phyletic dwarfism), and features related to their
small size (rapid development and relatively short lifespan), which result in
these animals yielding experimental results more rapidly and at lower cost.
Macaques, however, have their own advantages. Importantly, macaques are more
closely related to humans (which are also catarrhine primates) than are
marmosets, sharing approximately 20 million more years of common descent, and are
demonstrably more similar to humans in a variety of genomic, molecular, and
neurobiological characteristics. Furthermore, the very specializations of
marmosets that make them attractive as experimental subjects, such as their rapid
development and short lifespan, are ways in which marmosets differ from humans
and in which macaques more closely resemble humans. These facts warrant careful
consideration of the trade-offs between convenience and cost, on the one hand,
and biological realism, on the other, in choosing between non-human primate
models of human biology. Notwithstanding the advantages marmosets offer as
models, prudence requires continued commitment to research on macaques and other 
primate species.

Â© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000500500 
PMCID: PMC6711801
PMID: 31416070  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

