

453. Sci Rep. 2019 Aug 7;9(1):11459. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-48009-3.

Short Interruptions of Imposed Hyperopic Defocus Earlier in Treatment are More
Effective at Preventing Myopia Development.

Benavente-Perez A(1), Nour A(2), Troilo D(2).

Author information: 
(1)SUNY College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA. abenavente@sunyopt.edu.
(2)SUNY College of Optometry, New York, NY, USA.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of interrupting negative
lens wear for short periods early or late during the development of lens-induced 
myopia in marmosets. Sixteen marmosets were reared with a -5D contact lens on
their right eye (plano on contralateral eye) for 8 weeks. Eight marmosets had
lenses removed for 30 mins twice/day during the first four weeks (early
interruption) and eight during the last four weeks (late interruption). Data were
compared to treated controls that wore lenses continuously (N = 12) and untreated
controls (N = 10). Interocular differences (IOD) in vitreous chamber (VC) depth
and central and peripheral mean spherical refractive error (MSE) were measured at
baseline and after four (T4) and eight (T8) weeks of treatment. Visual experience
during the interruptions was monitored by measuring refraction while marmosets
were seated at the center of a 1 m radius viewing cylinder. At T4 the eyes that
were interrupted early were not different from untreated controls (p = 0.10) and 
at T8 had grown less and were less myopic than those interrupted later (IOD
change from baseline, VC: +0.07 ± 0.04 mm vs +0.20 ± 0.03 mm, p < 0.05; MSE:
-1.59 ± 0.26D vs -2.63 ± 0.60D, p = 0.13). Eyes interrupted later were not
different from treated controls (MSE, p = 0.99; VC, p = 0.60) and grew at the
same rate as during the first four weeks of uninterrupted lens wear (T4 - T0:
3.67 ± 1.1 µm/day, T8 - T4: 3.56 ± 1.3 µm/day p = 0.96). Peripheral refraction
was a predictive factor for the amount of myopia developed only when the
interruption was not effective. In summary, interrupting hyperopic defocus with
short periods of myopic defocus before compensation occurs prevents axial myopia 
from developing. After myopia develops, interruption is less effective.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-48009-3 
PMCID: PMC6685965
PMID: 31391523  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

