

4538. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1987;92(4):478-83.

Rats and marmosets respond differently to serotonin agonists and antagonists.

Campos MF, Rodrigues F das C.

The actions of the serotonin precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), the agonist
5-methoxy-N,N-dimetyltryptamine (MeODMT) and quipazine (QPZ) and the antagonists 
cyproheptadine, methysergide and metergoline, were studied in the rat and in the 
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The precursor and agonists elicited head
shakes, forepaw padding, splayed hindlimbs, tremor and Straub tail in the rat.
However, head shakes were not observed after MeODMT and Straub tail was not
observed after QPZ. Carbidopa plus 5-HTP potentiated only head shakes, while
tranylcypromine (TCP) plus 5-HTP potentiated all the behaviors above. In the
marmoset, the action of these drugs elicited drowsiness, teeth chattering,
ataxia, vomiting and decreased motor activity, although vomiting was not elicited
by MeODMT and ataxia and drowsiness by QPZ. Although TCP plus 5-HTP potentiated
all these behaviors, carbidopa plus 5-HTP was not effective. Rats treated with
the antagonists (1.0, 5.0 and 10 mg/kg doses) did not show any of these
behaviors, but marmosets treated with the same drugs developed "drowsiness",
vomiting, and decreased motor activity; nonetheless, cyproheptadine (5.0 and 10
mg/kg doses) did not elicit "drowsiness", while increasing motor activity and the
number of head shakes. Pretreatment of marmosets with these antagonists blocked
only teeth chattering elicited by MeODMT (4.0 mg/kg) and QPZ (10 mg/kg).
Pretreatment with haloperidol, p-chlorophenylalanine and alpha-methyl-P-tyrosine 
had no effect. The data obtained show that rats and marmosets present
differential behavioral responses to the 5-HT drugs used.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF00176482 
PMID: 3114802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

