

4546. J Med Virol. 1987 Jan;21(1):67-74.

Protection of Junín virus-infected marmosets by passive administration of immune 
serum: association with late neurologic signs.

Avila MM, Samoilovich SR, Laguens RP, Merani MS, Weissenbacher MC.

Argentine hemorrhagic fever (Junín virus) is a human viral disease for which
immune therapy proves effective, though a late neurologic syndrome is
occasionally associated with the treatment. We attempted to determine in the
infected marmoset Callithrix jacchus whether immune therapy leads to protection
and/or CNS damage. Fifteen C jacchus were inoculated with 10(3) tissue culture
infectious dose 50% (TCID50) of the XJ strain of Junín virus. On day 6 post
infection (pi), 12 primates were treated with homologous immune serum. Animals
were observed daily; and hematologic, serologic, virologic, and histologic
studies were performed. All primates, both treated and controls, presented
leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, and weight loss from day 14 pi onward. The 
three control animals died on days 22, 25, and 32 pi. Among the 12 treated
monkeys, 3 died on days 21, 22, and 29. Hematologic values returned to normal
during the second month; initial weight was recovered by the fourth month. Three 
out of the nine survivors showed neurologic alterations of various degrees, with 
hind-limb paralysis in the most severe case. Among treated monkeys, viremia and
viral titers in the lungs, kidney, and lymph nodes were lower than in controls.
Neutralizing antibodies were present in high titers in all treated marmosets,
except in the one presenting paralysis in which values were minimal and viral
persistence was detected in CNS. In conclusion, immune serum treatment of Junín
virus-infected marmosets was found to reduce mortality from 100% to 25%. Viremia 
and viral titers in organs were lowered, and late neurologic signs appeared in
30% of treated survivors.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890210109 
PMID: 3025358  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

