

4547. Histochemistry. 1987;86(6):621-5.

Histochemical localization of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase in marmoset
ovaries during pro- and diestrus, with special reference to substrate
specificity.

Rune GM, Heger W.

We applied qualitative cytochemical procedures to investigate and compare the
distribution of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases (HSDH) in pro- and diestrus 
ovaries of sexually mature marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) using
dehydroepiandrosterone or etiocholane-3 beta-ol-17-one as the substrate. During
proestrus dehydroepiandrosterone dehydrogenase (3 beta-5 alpha-HSDH) activity was
found in the theca of tertiary follicles and in atretic granulosa cells. In
granulosa cells at advanced stages of degeneration, HSDH activity was distinctly 
higher than in thecal cells. The activity of etiocholane-3 beta-ol-17-one
dehydrogenase (3 beta-5 beta-HSDH) exhibited a gradient in preovulatory
follicles, ranging from high levels in granulosa cells adjacent to the basement
membrane to low levels in cells bordering on the antrum and in cumulus oophorus
cells. During diestrus 3 beta-5 alpha-HSDH activity was only detected in the
corpora lutea; the level of 3 beta-5 beta-HSDH activity was unchanged in the
theca of tertiary follicles and was high in the cells of the corpora lutea. HSDH 
activity was no longer detectable in atretic granulosa cells using either
dehydroepiandrosterone or etiocholane-3 beta-ol-17-one as the substrate.
Comparison of the distribution of HSDH during proestrus and diestrus revealed
that steroidogenesis in marmoset ovaries occurs in follicular elements during
diestrus and almost exclusively in the corpora lutea during diestrus. From this
phase-dependent localization, it is possible to determine the stage of the
estrous cycle. Furthermore, our findings indicate that the localization of HSDH
is dependent on the conformational structure of the substrate used.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00489557 
PMID: 2956223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

