

4550. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1987;10 Suppl 7:S96-8.

Sustained reduction in blood pressure during chronic administration of a renin
inhibitor to normotensive marmosets.

Wood JM(1), Baum HP, Jobber RA, Neisius D.

Author information: 
(1)Biological Research Department, CIBA-GEIGY Limited, Basel, Switzerland.

In this study, the hypotensive efficacy of a renin inhibitor was investigated
during chronic administration. The renin inhibitor CGP 29,287 was administered by
continuous intraperitoneal infusion with osmotic mini-pumps to normotensive
marmosets fed a low-sodium diet. Marmosets received a dose of 0.3 (n = 5), 3.0 (n
= 5), or 30 (n = 6) mg/kg/day for 14 days. Blood pressure (BP) and heart rate
(HR) were measured in conscious animals by the tail-cuff method. Plasma renin
activity (PRA) was reduced by 68% and 84%, respectively, by the 0.3 and 3.0
mg/kg/day doses. However, these doses had no significant effect on BP.
Plasma-renin activity was reduced by 93% after 2 days of administration of the 30
mg/kg/day dose, and BP was significantly reduced (-24 +/- 4 mm Hg). After 14
days, PRA had recovered to pretreatment levels, but the hypotensive response
persisted (-20 +/- 3 mm Hg). Despite the fall in BP, HR was not increased (292
+/- 22, 283 +/- 16, and 267 +/- 8 beats/min on days 0, 2, and 14, respectively). 
These findings indicate that, after 2 days of continuous administration, a dose
of CGP 29,287 that induces almost complete inhibition of PRA is required to
induce a significant fall in BP. Although there is subsequent recovery of PRA,
the hypotensive response persists for 14 days. Thus, after chronic
administration, the hypotensive efficacy of this renin inhibitor does not
correlate with the degree of inhibition of PRA. However, these results indicate
that renin inhibitors are effective hypotensive agents after chronic
administration.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-198706107-00017 
PMID: 2485073  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

