

4566. Calcif Tissue Int. 1986 Jul;39(1):22-7.

Bone in the marmoset: a resemblance to vitamin D-dependent rickets, type II.

Yamaguchi A, Kohno Y, Yamazaki T, Takahashi N, Shinki T, Horiuchi N, Suda T,
Koizumi H, Tanioka Y, Yoshiki S.

The common marmoset, a New World monkey, requires a large amount of vitamin D3 to
maintain its normal growth. This monkey is reported to have an end-organ
resistance to 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1 alpha,25(OH)2D3). In this study, 
the bone morphology of marmosets fed a high vitamin D3 diet (intake of vitamin
D3, 110 IU/day/100 g of body weight) was compared by X-ray and histological
examinations with that of rhesus monkeys (Old World monkey) fed a normal diet
(intake of vitamin D3, 5 IU/day/100 g of body weight). Three of 20 marmosets were
found by X-ray examination to have osteomalacic changes in their bones despite
the high daily intake of vitamin D3, whereas none of the 5 rhesus monkeys showed 
any signs of osteomalacia. Osteomalacic marmosets had distinct increases in
osteoid surface, relative osteoid volume, and active osteoclastic bone
resorption, whereas non-osteomalacic marmosets had no increase in osteoid tissues
in their bones. None of the marmosets, either osteomalacic or non-osteomalacic,
was hypercalcemic despite the extremely high circulating levels of 1
alpha,25(OH)2D3. However, the serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25OHD3) and
24R,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (24R,25(OH)2D3) levels were significantly lower in the
osteomalacic than in the non-osteomalacic marmosets. These results suggest that
the marmoset is likely to exhibit osteomalacic bone changes despite the high
daily intake of vitamin D3. These changes resemble those in vitamin D-dependent
rickets, type II.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02555736 
PMID: 3089562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

