

4589. Gegenbaurs Morphol Jahrb. 1986;132(4):535-54.

[Comparative scanning and transmission electron microscopy studies of the
ependyma of the central canal in the spinal cord of primates. I. Electron optical
image of the ependyma in the central canal of the spinal cord of the callithrix
monkey (Callithrix jacchus, Linn√© 1758)].

[Article in German]

Erhardt H, Meinel W.

The ependyma lining the central canal of the spinal cord of adult males and
females monkey, Callithrix jacchus, was examined by scanning and transmission
electron microscopy. The cross section of the lumen of the central canal are
round, oval, or triangular. Light and dark ependymal cells, depending on the
density of the cytoplasm, were found. The light ependymal cells are fewer than
the dark cells. The ependyma cytoplasm contained numerous mitochondria,
filamentous structures, one or more well-developed Golgi-complexes, vesicles of
the smooth endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes, lysosomes, multivesicular bodies,
profiles of the rough endoplasmic reticulum, large osmophilic bodies, and
microtubules. The nuclei of the ependyma cells usually have a simple, regular
round or oval shape. They occupy a relatively large portion of the cell volume
and lie in the central or mediobasal position. Some of the nuclei show deep
invaginations into the karyoplasm. Most of the mitochondria occupy mainly the
supranuclear portion of the apical cytoplasm. There are of the crista-typ.
Ribosomes occur free in the cytoplasm, but some attached to the profiles of the
rough endoplasmic reticulum or being arranged as polysomes. The filamentous
structures are generally prominent cytoplasmic components and are distributed at 
the apical, lateral, or basal region of the ependymocytes. They are grouped into 
bundles and arranged in parallel arrays. Some of these bundles reach the
plasmamembrane at the free lumina of the central canal, others take contact to
the filamentous structures of the zonulae adherentes of the junctional complex
below the free surface. The granular endoplasmic reticulum shows specializations.
There profiles surrounding granular substances and widely distributed
granulations in connection with the nuclear envelope. The functional significance
of the deposition of these granulations is still unknown. The luminal surface of 
the ependymocytes bears many microvilli and cilia. The cilia are regularly
arranged in cranio-caudal direction. Each cilium has the typical (9 +
2)-subfibres. The intercellular space at the surface of the ependymal layer shows
a single zonula adherens or zonulae adherentes in the row. Tight junctions and
gap junctions were not found in the material examined. Cell processes of liquor
contacting neurons between adjacent ependyma cells, protruding into the lumen of 
the central canal, could be observed. The termination of these neurons contains
accumulations of mitochondria in the central part, large amounts of vesicles, and
small dense bodies. They have short microvilli and some stereocilia at the free
surface.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)


PMID: 3098621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

