

4598. J Comp Neurol. 1985 Dec 15;242(3):425-58.

Cortical and subcortical afferent connections of the primate's temporal pole: a
study of rhesus monkeys, squirrel monkeys, and marmosets.

Markowitsch HJ, Emmans D, Irle E, Streicher M, Preilowski B.

The afferent connections of the primate's temporopolar cortex were investigated
with the retrograde horseradish peroxidase technique. Old World and New World
monkeys received small unilateral injections of horseradish peroxidase. These
labeled cells in a number of cortical, thalamic, and brainstem regions and in a
few further telencephalic and diencephalic regions. Cortically, the neighboring
areas of the inferior and superior temporal gyrus and the insula contained a
considerable number of labeled cells. Furthermore, a substantial projection arose
from the orbitofrontal and the frontopolar cortex. The cingulate gyrus contained 
only very few labeled cells. Interhemispherically, corticocortical connections
arose mainly from temporal lobe areas. Labeled cells were seen in various regions
of the basal forebrain and cells labeled only faintly in the lateral and basal
accessory nuclei of the amygdala. The claustrum contained labeled neurons only in
one rhesus monkey. On the diencephalic level, the caudal medial portion of the
medial pulvinar was the principal thalamic source of afferents to the
temporopolar cortex. Furthermore, labeled cells were found in the neighboring,
caudal part of the mediodorsal nucleus, within and along the nucleus limitans, in
the medial geniculate nucleus, and in several nuclei of the nonspecific system.
The fields of Forel, the zona incerta, and lateral and dorsomedial hypothalamic
areas contained a few labeled cells. Within the brainstem of the rhesus monkeys
those regions projecting diffusely to the cortex contained a few labeled neurons.
Furthermore, these brains had some labeled cells in the regions of the nuclei
medialis annuli aqueductus, tractus mesencephalicus nervi trigemini, and
trochlearis. Although among the three species differences in the cortical and
thalamic projection patterns were observed, the regions projecting most densely
to the temporal pole were similar in principle. This statement holds in
particular for cortical and thalamic sites. However, the greatest number of
labeled cells was found in the rhesus monkey, a fact that cannot be attributed
solely to the size of the horseradish peroxidase injections and the size of the
brain, but that appears rather to represent a true species difference. From our
results we conclude that the temporopolar cortex constitutes a cortical area
necessary for effective affectional-sensory integration.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.902420310 
PMID: 4086670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

