

46. Retrovirology. 2021 Nov 10;18(1):36. doi: 10.1186/s12977-021-00580-2.

An ancient retroviral RNA element hidden in mammalian genomes and its involvement
in co-opted retroviral gene regulation.

Kitao K(1), Nakagawa S(2), Miyazawa T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Virus-Host Coevolution, Institute for Frontier Life and Medical 
Sciences, Kyoto University, 53 Shogoin-Kawaharacho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8507,
Japan.
(2)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine,
Isehara, Kanagawa, 259-1193, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Virus-Host Coevolution, Institute for Frontier Life and Medical 
Sciences, Kyoto University, 53 Shogoin-Kawaharacho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8507,
Japan. takavet@infront.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Retroviruses utilize multiple unique RNA elements to control RNA
processing and translation. However, it is unclear what functional RNA elements
are present in endogenous retroviruses (ERVs). Gene co-option from ERVs sometimes
entails the conservation of viral cis-elements required for gene expression,
which might reveal the RNA regulation in ERVs.
RESULTS: Here, we characterized an RNA element found in ERVs consisting of three 
specific sequence motifs, called SPRE. The SPRE-like elements were found in
different ERV families but not in any exogenous viral sequences examined. We
observed more than a thousand of copies of the SPRE-like elements in several
mammalian genomes; in human and marmoset genomes, they overlapped with
lineage-specific ERVs. SPRE was originally found in human syncytin-1 and
syncytin-2. Indeed, several mammalian syncytin genes: mac-syncytin-3 of macaque, 
syncytin-Ten1 of tenrec, and syncytin-Car1 of Carnivora, contained the SPRE-like 
elements. A reporter assay revealed that the enhancement of gene expression by
SPRE depended on the reporter genes. Mutation of SPRE impaired the wild-type
syncytin-2 expression while the same mutation did not affect codon-optimized
syncytin-2, suggesting that SPRE activity depends on the coding sequence.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate multiple independent invasions of various
mammalian genomes by retroviruses harboring SPRE-like elements. Functional
SPRE-like elements are found in several syncytin genes derived from these
retroviruses. This element may facilitate the expression of viral genes, which
were suppressed due to inefficient codon frequency or repressive elements within 
the coding sequences. These findings provide new insights into the long-term
evolution of RNA elements and molecular mechanisms of gene expression in
retroviruses.

Â© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12977-021-00580-2 
PMCID: PMC8579622
PMID: 34753509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

