

4602. Carcinogenesis. 1985 Nov;6(11):1543-50.

Metabolism and tissue distribution of tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines in the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Castonguay A, Tj√§lve H, Trushin N, d'Argy R, Sperber G.

Three male marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) were injected i.v. with the
tobacco-specific carcinogen [2'-14C]N'-nitrosonornicotine (NNN) (20.3 mumol/kg
body weight) or [carbonyl-14C]4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone
(NNK) (18.8 or 420 mumol/kg body weight). They were sacrificed 4 h later. Tissue 
distribution was studied in two monkeys by whole-body autoradiography and by
computer-assisted densitometric analysis of the autoradiograms. The
autoradiograms showed a high level of radioactivity in the liver, nasal mucosa,
kidneys, melanin of the eyes, hair-follicles of the skin and in the ceruminous
ear glands of the monkeys. Total level of radioactivity was 5.7 times higher in
the liver of the [carbonyl-14C]NNK-injected monkey than in that of
[2'-14C]-NNN-injected monkey. Washing the sections with trichloroacetic acid and 
organic solvents selectively removed free metabolites leaving metabolites bound
to cellular macromolecules. Level of bound metabolites was 1.5 times higher in
the nasal mucosa than in the liver of the [2'-14C]NNN monkey. Levels of bound
metabolites were similar in the liver of NNN- and NNK-treated monkeys. The
results indicate that the liver and nasal mucosa of C. jacchus can activate NNN
and NNK to alkylating species. Unbound metabolites present in the liver, lung,
kidneys, eye, blood and urine were extracted and separated by h.p.l.c.
Hydroxylation of the carbons alpha to the N-nitroso group of NNN were the major
metabolic pathways. Unmetabolized NNN was the major radioactive component in the 
liver, lung, eye and blood. Reduction of the carbonyl of NNK yields
4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)butan-1-ol (NNAl). NNAl was present in all
tissues analyzed and was the major radioactive component in the eye and stomach
lumen. It was also excreted in the urine. NNK and NNAl were metabolized by
alpha-carbon hydroxylation. These results suggest that in C. jacchus, NNN, NNK
and NNAl are activated to alkylating species by alpha-carbon hydroxylation. In
the third monkey injected with NNK, DNA methylation was observed in the liver and
nasal mucosa but not in the lung and kidneys. Pulmonary tissues of C. jacchus,
unlike those of F344 rats, do not have the enzymic capacities to activate NNK to 
methylating species.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/6.11.1543 
PMID: 4053274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

