

4605. Hypertension. 1985 Sep-Oct;7(5):797-803.

Effects of a specific and long-acting renin inhibitor in the marmoset.

Wood JM, Gulati N, Forgiarini P, Fuhrer W, Hofbauer KG.

Inhibition of renin was induced in conscious marmosets with CGP 29 287,
Z-Arg-Arg-Pro-Phe-His-Sta-Ile-His-Lys (Boc)-OMe, a renin inhibitor with a
prolonged duration of action. In vitro, CGP 29 287 is a potent inhibitor of
primate plasma renin (inhibitory concentration, 50%: human = 1 X 10(-9) M;
marmoset = 5 X 10(-9) M) and less potent against dog (2 X 10(-7) M) or rat (3 X
10(-5) M) plasma renin. CGP 29 287 is a weak inhibitor of other aspartic
proteases such as porcine pepsin or bovine cathepsin D (inhibitory concentration,
50% = 4 X 10(-5) M). In furosemide-treated marmosets, CGP 29 287 lowered blood
pressure and inhibited plasma renin activity during intravenous infusion and
after intravenous bolus injection. The duration of action after intravenous
injection was dose dependent and ranged from 1 hour after 0.1 mg/kg to more than 
3 hours after 10 mg/kg. High doses of CGP 29 287 (100 mg/kg) were active after
oral administration. In all experiments a close relation between inhibition of
plasma renin activity and reduction of blood pressure was found. A maximum
hypotensive response to CGP 29 287 was associated with complete inhibition of
plasma renin activity, and the recovery of blood pressure was accompanied by
recovery of plasma renin activity. The hypotensive effects of CGP 29 287 were
smaller in untreated than in furosemide-treated marmosets. CGP 29 287 had no
influence on blood pressure in marmosets after bilateral nephrectomy or after
pretreatment with a converting enzyme inhibitor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.7.5.797 
PMID: 3928488  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

