

4614. Biochem J. 1985 Apr 15;227(2):555-63.

The mechanism of end-organ resistance to 1 alpha,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol in
the common marmoset.

Takahashi N, Suda S, Shinki T, Horiuchi N, Shiina Y, Tanioka Y, Koizumi H, Suda
T.

The common marmoset, a New World monkey, requires a large amount of
cholecalciferol (110 i.u./day per 100g body wt.) to maintain its normal growth.
In a previous report, we demonstrated that the circulating levels of 1 alpha,
25-dihydroxycholecalciferol [1 alpha,25(OH)2D3] in the marmosets are much higher 
than those in rhesus monkeys and humans, but the marmosets are not hypercalcaemic
[Shinki, Shiina, Takahashi, Tanioka, Koizumi & Suda (1983) Biochem. Biophys. Res.
Commun. 14, 452-457]. To compare the effect of the daily intake of
cholecalciferol, two rhesus monkeys were given a large amount of cholecalciferol 
(900 i.u./day per 100g body wt). Their serum levels of calcium,
25-hydroxycholecalciferol and 24R,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol were markedly
elevated, but the serum 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 levels remained within a range similar 
to those in the rhesus monkeys fed the normal diet (intake of cholecalciferol 5
i.u./day per 100g body wt). Intestinal cytosols prepared from both monkeys
contained similar 3.5 S macromolecules to which 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 was bound
specifically. However, the cytosols from the marmosets contained only one-sixth
as many 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 receptors as those from the rhesus monkeys.
Furthermore, the activity of the 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3-receptor complex in binding to
DNA-cellulose was very low in the marmosets. These results suggest that the
marmoset possesses an end-organ resistance to 1 alpha,25(OH)2D3 and is a useful
animal model for studying the mechanism of vitamin D-dependent rickets, type II.

DOI: 10.1042/bj2270555 
PMCID: PMC1144875
PMID: 2988503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

