

4618. J Endocrinol. 1985 Feb;104(2):251-7.

A phylogenetic study of the structural and functional characteristics of
corticosteroid binding globulin in primates.

Robinson PA, Hawkey C, Hammond GL.

A monospecific antiserum against human corticosteroid binding globulin (hCBG) has
been used to identify structural similarities between hCBG and CBG in the blood
of other primates and representative species of different vertebrate classes.
Double immunodiffusion analysis indicated that only CBG in Old World monkeys and 
apes cross-react with the hCBG antiserum. This was confirmed by a solid-phase
radioimmunoassay for hCBG which also demonstrated that CBG in apes is
immunologically identical to hCBG and that Old World monkey CBG comprises most,
but not all, of the hCBG epitopes. The electrophoretic mobilities of human,
gorilla and gibbon CBG were similar (RF 0.50-0.51), but differed from Old World
monkey CBG (RF 0.44-0.49) and chimpanzee CBG (RF 0.47). Although serum/plasma
cortisol binding capacities were similar in Old World primates, the dissociation 
half-times (t 1/2) of cortisol were higher from human and ape CBG (18-25 min)
than from Old World monkey CBG (14-18 min). The steroid binding specificities of 
human and ape (CBG corticosterone greater than cortisol greater than progesterone
greater than or equal to testosterone) were also different from those of Old
World monkey CBG (corticosterone much greater than cortisol approximately equal
to progesterone greater than testosterone). Lemur plasma cortisol binding
capacity and CBG dissociation t 1/2 of cortisol were similar to hCBG, but its
steroid binding specificity was different (cortisol greater than corticosterone
greater than progesterone greater than or equal to testosterone) and it did not
cross-react with the hCBG antiserum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.1040251 
PMID: 3918139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

