

4625. Folia Primatol (Basel). 1985;45(2):117-28.

Observations on the interaction between adult group members, group members
without rearing experience and infants in the common marmoset, Callithrix
jacchus.

Engel C.

This study describes the reactions of adult, rearing-experienced members of three
Callithrix jacchus families to interactions between animals without rearing
experience and infants. The direct involvement of adult group members in
situations in which inexperienced animals interact with infants decreases as the 
infants become older. Inexperienced animals will approach infants more seldom, if
adult, rearing-experienced animals are nearby. Adult, rearing-experienced members
of the group display primarily noninteractive behavior. This is especially true
when no physical contact has taken place between an inexperienced animal and the 
infant, or if contact was initiated by the infant. Most of the dissociative
reactions were observed in the context of competition for objects and play
activity. However, there was a similarly high percentage of associative behavior 
towards inexperienced animals during play activity. In the episodes observed, the
adult, rearing-experienced animals displayed mainly taking care behavior towards 
the infant but never any dissociative behavior. The following points appear to be
of significance for the way adult, rearing-experienced members of the group
behave: spatial distance between inexperienced animal and infant; which party was
the initiator of the interaction; the level of experience already acquired by the
animals without previous rearing experience, and the level of maturation of the
infant.

DOI: 10.1159/000156222 
PMID: 3937806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

