

4635. Gastroenterology. 1985 Jan;88(1 Pt 1):20-5.

Colonic mucin composition in primates. Selective alterations associated with
spontaneous colitis in the cotton-top tamarin.

Podolsky DK, Madara JL, King N, Sehgal P, Moore R, Winter HS.

Heterogeneity of colonic mucin glycoprotein was examined in rectal mucosal biopsy
specimens from a variety of primate species (Saguinus oedipus, n = 18; Macaca
mulatta, n = 2; Macaca fascicularis, n = 2; Aotus trivirgatus, n = 2; Saimiri
sciureus, n = 2; and Callithrix jacchus, n = 2). After initial separation of
radiolabeled mucin and nonmucin glycoproteins solubilized from mucosal biopsy
specimens, at least five labeled mucin components were found in monkey rectal
mucosa in contrast to the six mucin fractions observed in the human colon.
Although primates consistently lacked the earliest eluting component present in
human colonic mucin, other mucin components cochromatographed with comparable
fractions previously identified in human colonic biopsy specimens. The relative
proportions of each fraction were consistent throughout all species except the
cotton-top tamarin (S. oedipus), an animal that develops a chronic colitis. The
cotton-top tamarin was found to have a markedly reduced amount of one mucin
component (IV) in a manner analogous to the reduction in a human mucin fraction
previously noted in patients with ulcerative colitis. Sequential evaluation of
mucin profiles in cotton-top tamarins (n = 12) treated with sulfasalazine (50
mg/kg X day) or placebo in a 10-wk double-blind crossover study demonstrated the 
persistence of the selective reduction in tamarin species IV unrelated to disease
activity. In contrast, the relative amount of tamarin mucin III was greater in
association with increased disease activity than that observed in association
with reduced disease activity (46% +/- 11% total mucin vs. 19% +/- 7% total mucin
posttreatment).

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(85)80127-x 
PMID: 3917260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

