

4641. Gastroenterology. 1985 Jan;88(1 Pt 1):13-9.

Characterization of spontaneous colitis in cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus)
and its response to sulfasalazine.

Madara JL, Podolsky DK, King NW, Sehgal PK, Moore R, Winter HS.

Chronic colitis in the cotton-top tamarin (CTT) has been characterized by
obtaining distal colonic biopsy specimens, hematocrits, serum albumins, and
stools for bacteriologic and parasitic examination in nondebilitated living CTTs.
The species specificity of the histologic features of colitis observed in the CTT
was assessed by obtaining distal colonic biopsy specimens from 10 animals of
other primate species for histologic examination. Histologic evidence of active
colitis was found in 50% of adult CTTs but was absent in all non-CTT species
studied. Forty-two stool samples obtained from 18 CTTs yielded only one isolate
(Campylobacter). In addition to active colitis, CTT rectal mucosa also often had 
subtle irregularities in mucosal structure that were not present in nonrelated
primate species and might represent chronic colitis. Metaplasia was not observed.
The therapeutic effects of oral sulfasalazine (50 mg/kg X day) on CTT colitis
were assessed in a randomized 10-wk placebo controlled crossover study. This
study demonstrated significant improvement in disease activity as judged
histologically (p less than 0.05) and significant increases in animal weight (p
less than 0.01) and serum albumin (p less than 0.01) during sulfasalazine therapy
when compared with saline control. Sulfasalazine therapy can ameliorate the
effects of this disease and offers promise in maintaining experimental colonies
of this endangered species for future studies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(85)80126-8 
PMID: 2856876  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

