

4658. Acta Pharmacol Toxicol (Copenh). 1984 Aug;55(2):145-52.

Organ and cellular distribution of inhaled metallic mercury in the rat and
Marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus): influence of ethyl alcohol pretreatment.

Khayat A, Dencker L.

Distribution of inhaled radioactive metallic mercury vapour (203Hg0) in rats and 
Marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), with or without pretreatment by ethyl
alcohol or aminotriazole (rat), was studied by means of whole-body
autoradiography, microautoradiography and scintillation counting of excised
organs. Metallic mercury is oxidized by the catalase-H2O2 complex (Complex I) to 
the ionic form (Hg2+) and is known to be accumulated and retained in organs such 
as lungs, liver, myocardium, and brain, apparently after local oxidation in these
organs. To this list of organs can be added the whole respiratory tract (nasal
mucosa, trachea, and bronchi), a number of endocrine organs such as adrenal
cortex, thyroid, corpora lutea of the ovaries, and interstitial tissues of the
testes, the uvea and retina of the eye, and the salivary glands. In the liver, a 
regionalized pattern of distribution corresponding to the periportal hepatocytes 
was observed. Similarly, the subcapsular parts of the adrenal cortex (mainly the 
zona glomerulosa) were responsible for most of the adrenal mercury oxidation and 
retention. These organs (liver, adrenal) thus have a reserve capacity to oxidize 
Hg0. This is apparent also by the fact that ethyl alcohol and aminotriazole
(known catalase inhibitors)--which depress oxidation and retention in most organs
and whole body and thus increase blood concentrations of Hg0--cause an increased 
retention in most liver and adrenal cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0773.1984.tb01977.x 
PMID: 6437142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

