

468. Dev Psychobiol. 2020 Nov;62(7):932-940. doi: 10.1002/dev.21892. Epub 2019 Jul 9.

Vasopressin, but not oxytocin, modulates responses to infant stimuli in marmosets
providing care to dependent infants.

Taylor JH(1)(2), Carp SB(1)(2), French JA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.
(2)Callitrichid Research Center, Omaha, Nebraska.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.

In family-living species, the quality and patterning of caregiving is the product
of an individual's role within the family (mother, father, sibling) and parental 
experience, both of which interact with underlying neurobiological substrates.
Among these substrates are the nonapeptides vasopressin and oxytocin, which
modulate maternal, paternal, and alloparental care. We used a nonhuman primate
model of the "nuclear family," the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), to investigate 
relationships between caregiving experience, role within the family, and
activation of either the oxytocin or vasopressin systems in shaping
responsiveness to offspring. During two phases of offspring development (early
infancy, juvenile), mothers, fathers, and older siblings were treated with
vasopressin, oxytocin, or saline via intranasal application, and tested for
responses to infant distress stimuli in a within-subjects design. Interest in
infant stimuli was highest among marmosets that were caring for infants compared 
to those caring for juveniles, and parentally experienced marmosets were quicker 
to respond to infant stimuli than first-time caregivers. Moreover, marmosets
treated with vasopressin showed enhanced responsiveness to infant stimuli
compared to control stimuli only when caring for infants. Thus, in all classes of
marmoset caregivers, vasopressin enhances responsiveness to infant-associated
stimuli in caregivers during periods in which infant care is most crucial.

Â© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.21892 
PMCID: PMC6949433
PMID: 31290143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

