

4688. Am J Primatol. 1984;6(3):187-197. doi: 10.1002/ajp.1350060306.

Monitoring ovarian function in marmosets and tamarins by the measurement of
urinary estrogen metabolites.

Hodges JK(1), Eastman SAK(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Institute of Zoology, The Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park,
London NW1 4RY, UK.

Practical aspects of urinary estrogen analysis were considered with regard to
establishing simple and reliable methods for monitoring ovarian function in
marmosets and tamarins. Changes in the hormone:creatinine ratio in small volumes 
of urine from the common marmoset were significantly correlated with changes in
24-h excretion. Comparison of the metabolism and excretion of estrogens during
the ovarian cycle in the common marmoset and cottontop tamarin revealed
interesting species differences. High concentrations of conjugated estrone were
measured in marmoset plasma, but estradiol 17β was the predominant estrogen in
urine. In contrast, estrone was the most abundant estrogen measured in tamarin
urine. Both species excreted very little estriol. Sulfates and glucuronides were 
present in urine in similar proportions before ovulation in the marmoset,
although after ovulation sulfates were the more abundant. Conversely, most of the
estrogens in tamarin urine appeared to be conjugated as glucuronides. Direct
assay for estrone sulfate was applied to the measurement of urinary estrogen
excretion during the ovarian cycle in a marmoset. The results compared well with 
those for total estradiol 17β after hydrolysis and ether extraction. The use of
direct assays for conjugated estrogens in small volumes of urine is suggested as 
a practical method for monitoring ovarian function in marmosets and tamarins.

Copyright © 1984 Wiley‐Liss, Inc., A Wiley Company.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.1350060306 
PMID: 31986836 

