

470. J Toxicol Sci. 2019;44(7):441-457. doi: 10.2131/jts.44.441.

Telemetered common marmosets is useful for the assessment of electrocardiogram
parameters changes induced by multiple cardiac ion channel inhibitors.

Watanabe K(1)(2), Tsubouchi T(1), Yamada T(1), Hinoi E(2), Miyawaki I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Preclinical Research Unit, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Ltd.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology, Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Kanazawa University Graduate School.

The objective of this study is to assess the response of telemetered common
marmosets to multiple cardiac ion channel inhibitors and to clarify the
usefulness of this animal model in evaluating the effects of drug candidates on
electrocardiogram (ECG). Six multiple cardiac ion channel inhibitors (sotalol,
astemizole, flecainide, quinidine, verapamil and terfenadine) were orally
administered to telemetered common marmosets and changes in QTc, PR interval and 
QRS duration were evaluated. Drugs plasma levels were determined to compare the
sensitivity in common marmosets to that in humans. QTc prolongation was observed 
in the marmosets dosed with sotalol, astemizole, flecainide, quinidine, verapamil
and terfenadine. PR prolongation was noted after flecainide and verapamil
administration, and QRS widening occurred following treatment with flecainide and
quinidine. Drugs plasma levels associated with ECG changes in marmosets were
similar to those in humans, except for verapamil-induced QTc prolongation.
Verapamil-induced change is suggested due to body temperature decrease. These
results indicate that telemetered common marmoset is a useful animal for
evaluation of the ECG effects of multiple cardiac ion channel inhibitors and the 
influence of body temperature change should be considered in the assessment.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.44.441 
PMID: 31270301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

