

4705. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1983 Dec 20;754(3):321-33.

Isolation, characterization and comparative aspects of the major serum
apolipoproteins, B-100 and AI, in the common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus.

Forgez P, Chapman MJ, Mills GL.

The two major apolipoproteins of marmoset serum have been isolated and
characterized, and on the basis of physicochemical and immunological criteria are
homologous with the human AI and B-100 proteins. Marmoset apolipoprotein AI was
the principal protein of high-density lipoproteins (HDL) and was purified by gel 
filtration chromatography and electrophoresis in alkaline-urea polyacrylamide gel
followed by electrophoretic elution. Purified marmoset apolipoprotein AI
displayed an Mr of approx. 27000, was polymorphic (five forms) on isoelectric
focussing, with pI values in the range 4.8-5.0, and migrated similarly to human
apolipoprotein AI in alkaline-urea gels. An overall resemblance was seen in the
amino acid composition of marmoset apolipoprotein AI and that of its human
counterpart with the notable exception that marmoset AI contained 1 isoleucine
residue/mole. An immunological reaction of partial identity between the human and
monkey proteins was seen upon immunodiffusion of their HDLs against antiserum to 
human apolipoprotein AI. Marmoset B-100 was the predominant apoprotein of VLDL
and LDL, resembling the human protein in its elution profile on gel filtration
chromatography in anionic detergent, and in its high apparent Mr (approx.
520000). The marmoset and human B-100 proteins were alike in amino acid
composition and carbohydrate content. Moreover, their immunological behaviour
with an antiserum to marmoset apolipoprotein B showed them to share certain
antigenic determinant(s). We conclude that the physicochemical properties of the 
principle apolipoproteins of Callithrix jacchus, a New World primate, markedly
resemble those of the human AI and B-100 proteins, suggesting therefore that they
may function similarly in lipid transport and metabolism. Counterparts to human
apolipoproteins AII, E, CII and CIII have also been tentatively identified.

DOI: 10.1016/0005-2760(83)90149-2 
PMID: 6418212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

