

4727. J Endocrinol. 1983 Mar;96(3):443-50.

Sex steroids and their relationship to binding proteins in the serum of the
marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus).

Hodges JK, Eastman SA, Jenkins N.

A sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) similar to human SHBG was identified in
marmoset serum based on its gel electrophoretic mobility, isoelectric point and
steroid binding properties. Levels of serum SHBG were measured in immature and
mature males, immature females and females during the luteal phase and pregnancy;
serum progesterone, 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5 alpha-DHT), testosterone,
oestradiol-17 beta and oestrone were also measured. Mean (+/- S.E.M.)
concentrations of SHBG in immature males (336 +/- 19 nmol/l) were higher (P less 
than 0.01) than those in mature males (251 +/- 13 nmol/l), whereas values in the 
groups of females were similar (359 +/- 12, 395 +/- 17, 397 +/- 39 nmol/l in
immature, non-pregnant and pregnant females respectively). There was an inverse
relationship between SHBG and the levels of testosterone (r = -0.67) and 5
alpha-DHT (r = -0.86) in males, but the correlation was significant (P less than 
0.05) only for 5 alpha-DHT. There was no correlation between levels of SHBG and
oestrogens in males or between levels of SHBG and any of the steroids measured in
females. Equilibrium dialysis was used to assess the percentage of steroid in
serum in the unbound form. Mean percentage values for unbound testosterone and 5 
alpha-DHT were lower in immature males than in mature males (P less than 0.01)
and negatively correlated with levels of SHBG (r = -0.78, testosterone; r =
-0.56, 5 alpha-DHT).

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.0960443 
PMID: 6403644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

