

4744. J Med Virol. 1983;12(4):281-92.

Alteration of blood coagulation and complement system in neotropical primates
infected with Junin virus.

Molinas FC, Giavedoni E, Frigerio MJ, Calello MA, Barcat JA, Weissenbacher MC.

The neotropical primate Callithrix jacchus infected with Junin virus presented an
acute disease with hematological and neurological manifestations and died 17 to
24 days after infection. This picture is similar to that of human Argentine
hemorrhagic fever (AHF). Blood coagulation and complement studies were performed 
in ten C jacchus animals inoculated with 10(3) TCID50 of Junin virus, the
prototype pathogenic XJ strain. Four monkeys were used as normal controls.
Infected monkeys and normal controls were bled to death on days 7, 14, 17, and
21. A progressive decrease in the number of platelets was found after day 7 of
infection. On day 21, the last monkey had a value of 24,000/microliters. The
levels of blood clotting factors did not change until day 17, when a shortened
partial thromboplastin time activated with Kaolin (PTTK) (36 sec) and increased
factors VIII (192.2%) and VII-X (266.6%) were found. On day 21, the PTTK was
prolonged (50.7 sec) and factors II, V, and VIII, were decreased. Thrombin time
was found prolonged from day 14 onward. Fibrinogen and fibrin degradation
products (FDPs) were increased on days 17 (754 mg/dl and 9.2 microliters/ml) and 
21 (457 mg/dl and 29.4 micrograms/ml). No changes in the levels of alpha 2
macroglobulin were observed. Complement hemolytic levels were found to be low on 
day 7 (58.3 UCH50, increased on day 14 (165.1), and within normal range at the
end of infection (107.2). C3 levels showed a similar pattern. The bone marrow was
active and hypercellular, and the number and morphology of megakaryocytes were
normal in all but one of infected animals. The results of blood clotting suggest 
a limited activation. The complement system presented a profile of activation
followed by a rebound phenomenon. The activation of complement appeared ten days 
before the alteration of the clotting system was evident.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.1890120408 
PMID: 6197506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

