

475. Front Neuroanat. 2019 Jun 6;13:60. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00060. eCollection
2019.

Anatomical and Surgical Evaluation of the Common Marmoset as an Animal Model in
Hearing Research.

Kurihara S(1)(2), Fujioka M(3), Hata J(2), Yoshida T(2), Hirabayashi M(1)(2),
Yamamoto Y(1), Ogawa K(3), Kojima H(1), Okano HJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Division of Regenerative Medicine, The Jikei University School of Medicine,
Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Recent studies have indicated that direct administration of viral vectors or
small compounds to the inner ear may aid in the treatment of Sensorineural
hearing loss (SNHL). However, due to species differences between humans and
rodents, translating experimental results into clinical applications remains
challenging. The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a New World monkey, is
considered a pre-clinical animal model. In the present study, we describe
morphometric data acquired from the temporal bone of the common marmoset in order
to define the routes of topical drug administration to the inner ear. Dissection 
and diffusion tensor tractography (DTT) were performed on the fixed cadaverous
heads of 13 common marmosets. To investigate potential routes for drug
administration to the inner ear, we explored the anatomy of the round window,
oval window (OW), semicircular canal, and endolymphatic sac (ES). Among these,
the approach via the round window with posterior tympanotomy appeared feasible
for delivering drugs to the inner ear without manipulating the tympanic membrane,
minimizing the chances of conductive hearing loss. The courses of four critical
nerves [including the facial nerve (FN)] were visualized using three-dimensional 
(3D) DTT, which may help to avoid nerve damage during surgery. Finally, to
investigate the feasibility of actual drug administration, we measured the volume
of the round window niche (RWN), which was approximately 0.9 Î¼L. The present
findings may help to establish experimental standards for evaluating new
therapies in this primate model.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2019.00060 
PMCID: PMC6563828
PMID: 31244619 

