

477. Proc Biol Sci. 2019 Jun 26;286(1905):20190817. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2019.0817. Epub 
2019 Jun 26.

Long-lasting vocal plasticity in adult marmoset monkeys.

Zhao L(1), Rad BB(2), Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical
Engineering, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine , Baltimore, MD
21205 , USA.
(2)2 Department of Biological Sciences, Towson University , Towson, MD 21252 ,
USA.

Humans exhibit a high level of vocal plasticity in speech production, which
allows us to acquire both native and foreign languages and dialects, and adapt to
local accents in social communication. In comparison, non-human primates exhibit 
limited vocal plasticity, especially in adulthood, which would limit their
ability to adapt to different social and environmental contexts in vocal
communication. Here, we quantitatively examined the ability of adult common
marmosets ( Callithrix jacchus), a highly vocal New World primate species, to
modulate their vocal production in social contexts. While recent studies have
demonstrated vocal learning in developing marmosets, we know much less about the 
extent of vocal learning and plasticity in adult marmosets. We found, in the
present study, that marmosets were able to adaptively modify the spectrotemporal 
structure of their vocalizations when they encountered interfering sounds. Our
experiments showed that marmosets shifted the spectrum of their vocalizations
away from the spectrum of the interfering sounds in order to avoid the overlap.
More interestingly, we found that marmosets made predictive and long-lasting
spectral shifts in their vocalizations after they had experienced a particular
type of interfering sound. These observations provided evidence for directional
control of the vocalization spectrum and long-term vocal plasticity by adult
marmosets. The findings reported here have important implications for the ability
of this New World primate species in voluntarily and adaptively controlling their
vocal production in social communication.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2019.0817 
PMCID: PMC6599999
PMID: 31238841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

