

478. NPJ Parkinsons Dis. 2019 Jun 10;5:10. doi: 10.1038/s41531-019-0081-9. eCollection
2019.

Contractile dysfunction and nitrergic dysregulation in small intestine of a
primate model of Parkinson's disease.

Coletto E(#)(1), Dolan JS(#)(2), Pritchard S(2), Gant A(2), Hikima A(1), Jackson 
MJ(1), Benham CD(2), Chaudhuri KR(3), Rose S(1), Jenner P(1), Iravani MM(2).

Author information: 
(1)1Neurodegenerative Disease Research Group, Institute of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London,
UK.
(2)2Department of Clinical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK.
(3)3Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, The Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience
Institute, Kings College London, London, UK.
(#)Contributed equally

Bowel dysfunction is a common non-motor symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD). The 
main contractile neurotransmitter in the GI tract is acetylcholine (ACh), while
nitric oxide (NO) causes the relaxation of smooth muscle in addition to
modulating ACh release. The aim of this study was to characterise functional and 
neurochemical changes in the isolated ileum of the
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated marmoset, an
established model of PD motor dysfunction. While NO-synthase inhibitor L-NAME
concentration dependently augmented the neurogenically-evoked contractions and
inhibited the relaxations in normal tissues, it had no effects on the MPTP ileum.
Immunohistochemical analyses of the myenteric plexus showed that
ChAT-immunoreactivity (-ir) was significantly reduced and the density of the
enteric glial cells as shown by SOX-10-ir was increased. However, no change in
TH-, 5-HT-, VIP- or nNOS-ir was observed in the MPTP tissues. The enhancement of 
the neurogenically-evoked contractions and the inhibition of the relaxation phase
by L-NAME in the control tissues is in line with NO's direct relaxing effect on
smooth muscle and its indirect inhibitory effect on ACh release. The absence of
the relaxation and the inefficacy of L-NAME in the MPTP tissues suggests that
central dopaminergic loss dopamine may eventually lead to the impairment of NO
signal coupling that affects bowel function, and this may be the result of a
complex dysregulation at the level of the neuroeffector junction.

DOI: 10.1038/s41531-019-0081-9 
PMCID: PMC6557815
PMID: 31231674 

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare no
competing interests.

