

479. Methods Mol Biol. 2019;2006:309-319. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9566-0_21.

In Vitro Culture of Embryos from the Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Schmidt JK(1), Golos TG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA. jkropp@wisc.edu.
(2)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, WI, USA.

The biology of fertility, early development, and pregnancy is variable across
mammalian species. In addition, while the physiology and pathophysiology of human
diseases can be investigated in other animal models (principally, rodents),
differences between human and lower mammals often present limitations in the
applicability of physiological processes from rodent models to human biology.
Since 1984, when the first live birth from rhesus monkey in vitro fertilization
and embryo transfer was reported (Bavister et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci
81:2218-2222, 1984), there has been progress in the implementation of assisted
reproductive technologies with several nonhuman primate (NHP) species that play
important roles in biomedical research. In recent years, the significance of this
progress has been amplified by the development of genomic editing approaches for 
facile genetic manipulation of the embryo, including methods now applied to NHPs 
(Liu et al., Cell Stem Cell 14:323-328, 2014; Niu et al., Cell 156:836-843,
2014). In this review, we summarize current protocols and practices for the
common marmoset. It is our intention to provide current state-of-the-art
protocols for gamete procurement and in vitro fertilization techniques, so that
laboratories wishing to implement experimental embryology in marmoset models will
have a basic set of tools with which to initiate such studies.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-9566-0_21 
PMID: 31230289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

