

4813. Xenobiotica. 1980 Jun;10(6):421-34.

Some pathways of xenobiotic metabolism in the adult and neonatal marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus).

Hall BE, James SP.

1. An oral dose of [carboxyl-14C]benzoic acid was excreted as hippuric acid or
benzoylglucuronide by the adult marmoset Callithrix jacchus, and the relative
proportions of the metabolites were dose-dependent over the range 1-100mg/kg body
weight, the proportion of glucuronideincreasing with increasing dose level. 2.
[14C]Aspirin was rapidly absorbed by the marmoset, giving peak blood levels
within 1 h of dosing. Unchanged aspirin (trace to 5% dose) was excreted up to 3 h
after dosage. Salicylic acid was the major metabolite, relatively little
asalicyluric acid was excreted; glucuronic acid conjugates accounted for about
30% of the urinary metabolites and gentisic acid about 2%. 3. p-aminobenzoic acid
administered to adult marmosets was excreted as p-acetamidobenzoic acid, the
major urinary metabolite, unchanged p-aminobenzoates, p-aminobenzoyl glucuronide 
and p-aminohippuric acid each representing about 10% of the urinary metabolities;
one-fifth of the p-aminohippurate was acetylated. 4. After oral administration of
[35S]sulphadiazine to marmosets, peak blood levels of 35S occurred within 5 h
dosing, and immediately fell to near-zero values at 24 h. Sulphadiazine and
N-acetylsulphadiazine comprised 36% and 34% respectively of the urine 35S while
the N1-glucuronide (tentative identification) accounted for 22%. Minor
metabolites were the N4-glucuronide and N4-sulphate of sulphadiazine. 5. The
extent of acetylation of sulphadimidine by marmosets corresponded to that of fast
acetylators in man. 6. The metabolism of [14C]benzoate and of p-aminobenzoic acid
in the neonatal marmoset was compared with that in similarly dosed neonatal rats.

DOI: 10.3109/00498258009033777 
PMID: 7415222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

