

4847. Ciba Found Symp. 1978 Mar 14-16;(62):299-327.

The effects of neonatal exposure to testosterone on the development of behaviour 
in female marmoset monkeys.

Abbott DH, Hearn JP.

Experimental investigations of sexual differentiation in primates have been
mainly confined to the rhesus monkey, a highly polygamous species with marked
anatomical and behavioural sexual dimorphism. The marmoset is a monogamous monkey
which shows little anatomical or behavioural sexual dimorphism, and both sexes
exhibit positive feedback in response to the administration of oestradiol. This
monkey has a relatively short gestation period of 144 days and usually gives
birth to dizygotic twins. These share a common placental circulation and hence
develop as haematopoietic chimaeras. However, a female with a male co-twin is not
adversely affected as a result of this and the freemartin condition does not
occur. Since the newborn male experiences raised testosterone levels soon after
birth it is possible that the 'critical period' for sexual marmosets were
implanted with 25 mg of testosterone for 50 days after birth. After removal of
the implants their genitalia remained partly masculinized and they initiated more
masculine rough-and-tumble play than their controls. After puberty they exhibited
a mixture of male and female sexual behaviour when presented with unfamiliar
normal males and females during 15-minute behavioural trials. Four of the
implanted females have also ovulated. Neonatal administration of testosterone
therefore has had an organizing effect on female behaviour. Whether the marmoset 
is exceptional in this respect, or whether other primates which exhibit a male
neonatal testosterone surge, such as man and the rhesus monkey, also undergo some
postnatal behavioural differentation, remains to be seen.

DOI: 10.1002/9780470720448.ch14 
PMID: 111908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

