

4850. J Endocrinol. 1978 Feb;76(2):271-81.

Effects of gonadectomy and oestradiol treatment on plasma luteinizing hormone
concentrations in the marmoset monkey, Callithrix jacchus.

Hodges JK.

A heterologous double-antibody radioimmunoassay for marmoset LH is described in
detail. The system uses NIAMDD rat LH-I-1 for iodination, NIAMDD rat LH-RP-1 as
standard and anti-ovine rabbit LH 610V serum. The assay measures the level of
marmoset LH in plasma and shows a maximum cross-reaction (B/Bo = 50%) of 0.3%
with other rat, human or bovine pituitary hormones. The heterologous assay has
been applied to the measurement of the level of LH in the marmoset after
gonadectomy and after the subsequent implantation of oestradiol-17beta capsules. 
A clear increase in the concentration of LH in the plasma was observed by day 3
after gonadectomy and in most animals the level reached a plateau by day 9. The
rates of increase in the concentration of LH and the maximum levels attained
after gonadectomy were similar in male and female marmosets. The secretion of LH 
in long-term gonadectomized marmosets was episodic. In four of the marmosets
studied, the frequency of the pulsatile discharges of LH was circhoral, whereas
in the remaining five animals the frequency could not be determined. Subcutaneous
implants containing oestradiol-17beta were seen to have a biphasic effect on the 
secretion of LH in all gonadectomized marmosets. After a transient increase in
the concentration of LH (positive feedback) on day 1, levels fell markedly by day
4 and were undetectable 8 days after the implants were introduced (negative
feedback).

DOI: 10.1677/joe.0.0760271 
PMID: 415104  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

