

488. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2019 Aug 6;515(4):593-599. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.05.175. Epub 2019 Jun 6.

Establishment of induced pluripotent stem cells from common marmoset fibroblasts 
by RNA-based reprogramming.

Nakajima M(1), Yoshimatsu S(2), Sato T(1), Nakamura M(1), Okahara J(3), Sasaki
E(3), Shiozawa S(4), Okano H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan;
Laboratory for Proteolytic Neuroscience, RIKEN Center for Brain Science, Saitama,
Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan; Department of Marmoset Biology and Medicine, Central Institute
for Experimental Animals, Kanagawa, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan.
Electronic address: shiozawa@a7.keio.jp.
(5)Department of Physiology, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan;
Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Saitama, Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

The common marmoset (marmoset; Callithrix jacchus) shows anatomical and
physiological features that are in common with humans. Establishing induced
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from marmosets holds promise for enhancing the
utility of the animal model for biomedical and preclinical studies. However, in
spite of the presence of some previous reports on marmoset iPSCs, the
reprogramming technology in marmosets is still under development. In particular, 
the efficacy of RNA-based reprogramming has not been thoroughly investigated. In 
this study, we attempted RNA-based reprogramming for deriving iPSCs from marmoset
fibroblasts. Although we failed to derive iPSC colonies from marmoset fibroblasts
by using a conventional RNA-based reprogramming method previously validated in
human fibroblasts, we succeeded in deriving colony-forming cells with a modified 
induction medium supplemented with a novel set of small molecules. Importantly,
following one-week culture of the colony-forming cells in conventional embryonic 
stem cell (ESC) medium, we obtained iPSCs which express endogenous pluripotent
markers and show a differentiation potential into all three germ layers. Taken
together, our results indicate that RNA-based reprogramming, which is valuable
for deriving transgene-free iPSCs, is applicable to marmosets.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2019.05.175 
PMID: 31178141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

