

49. Front Immunol. 2021 Oct 19;12:716289. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.716289. eCollection
2021.

The Genomic Organization of the LILR Region Remained Largely Conserved Throughout
Primate Evolution: Implications for Health And Disease.

Storm L(1), Bruijnesteijn J(1), de Groot NG(1), Bontrop RE(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Comparative Genetics and Refinement, Biomedical Primate Research Centre,
Rijswijk, Netherlands.
(2)Theoretical Biology and Bioinformatics, Utrecht University, Utrecht,
Netherlands.

The genes of the leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor (LILR) family map to the 
leukocyte receptor complex (LRC) on chromosome 19, and consist of both activating
and inhibiting entities. These receptors are often involved in regulating immune 
responses, and are considered to play a role in health and disease. The human
LILR region and evolutionary equivalents in some rodent and bird species have
been thoroughly characterized. In non-human primates, the LILR region is
annotated, but a thorough comparison between humans and non-human primates has
not yet been documented. Therefore, it was decided to undertake a comprehensive
comparison of the human and non-human primate LILR region at the genomic level.
During primate evolution the organization of the LILR region remained largely
conserved. One major exception, however, is provided by the common marmoset, a
New World monkey species, which seems to feature a substantial contraction of the
number of LILR genes in both the centromeric and the telomeric region.
Furthermore, genomic analysis revealed that the killer-cell immunoglobulin-like
receptor gene KIR3DX1, which maps in the LILR region, features one copy in humans
and great ape species. A second copy, which might have been introduced by a
duplication event, was observed in the lesser apes, and in Old and New World
monkey species. The highly conserved gene organization allowed us to standardize 
the LILR gene nomenclature for non-human primate species, and implies that most
of the receptors encoded by these genes likely fulfill highly preserved
functions.

Copyright Â© 2021 Storm, Bruijnesteijn, de Groot and Bontrop.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.716289 
PMCID: PMC8562567
PMID: 34737739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

