

490. Front Neural Circuits. 2019 May 8;13:29. doi: 10.3389/fncir.2019.00029.
eCollection 2019.

Large-Area Fluorescence and Electron Microscopic Correlative Imaging With
Multibeam Scanning Electron Microscopy.

Shibata S(1)(2), Iseda T(1)(2), Mitsuhashi T(3), Oka A(2), Shindo T(1)(2),
Moritoki N(1), Nagai T(1), Otsubo S(2), Inoue T(4), Sasaki E(4), Akazawa C(5),
Takahashi T(3), Schalek R(6), Lichtman JW(6), Okano H(1)(2)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Electron Microscope Laboratory, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo,
Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Graduate School of Health Care
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge,
MA, United States.
(7)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Wak≈ç, Japan.

Recent improvements in correlative light and electron microscopy (CLEM)
technology have led to dramatic improvements in the ability to observe tissues
and cells. Fluorescence labeling has been used to visualize the localization of
molecules of interest through immunostaining or genetic modification strategies
for the identification of the molecular signatures of biological specimens. Newer
technologies such as tissue clearing have expanded the field of observation
available for fluorescence labeling; however, the area of correlative observation
available for electron microscopy (EM) remains restricted. In this study, we
developed a large-area CLEM imaging procedure to show specific molecular
localization in large-scale EM sections of mouse and marmoset brain. Target
molecules were labeled with antibodies and sequentially visualized in cryostat
sections using fluorescence and gold particles. Fluorescence images were obtained
by light microscopy immediately after antibody staining. Immunostained sections
were postfixed for EM, and silver-enhanced sections were dehydrated in a graded
ethanol series and embedded in resin. Ultrathin sections for EM were prepared
from fully polymerized resin blocks, collected on silicon wafers, and observed by
multibeam scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Multibeam SEM has made rapid,
large-area observation at high resolution possible, paving the way for the
analysis of detailed structures using the CLEM approach. Here, we describe
detailed methods for large-area CLEM in various tissues of both rodents and
primates.

DOI: 10.3389/fncir.2019.00029 
PMCID: PMC6517476
PMID: 31133819  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

