

4925. Dev Biol Stand. 1975;30:229-35.

Infectivity studies of hepatitis A and B in non-human primates.

Maynard JE, Krushak DH, Bradley DW, Berquist KR.

We have induced hepatitis A in marmosets of the subspecies Saguinus mystax
following primary inoculation with human serum containing the MS-1 strain of
hepatitis A virus (HAV) and in 3 further marmoset subpassages using infective
marmoset serum from each preceding passage. In each passage acquisition of serum 
antibody against 17 nm virus-like particles recovered from acute illness stools
of human volunteers who developed hepatitis following inoculation with the MS-1
strain of HAV, as well as from acute illness stools of hepatitis A cases from a
common source epidemic of heaptitis A in Arizona could be demonstrated by immune 
electron microscopy (IEM). Particle-containing stool filtrates from the latter
epidemic also induced hepatitis in chimpanzees after intravenous inoculation.
Inoculation of partially purified particles from a single banding in CsCl2 has
further resulted in the induction of hepatitis in S. mystax marmosets. We have
successfully induced hepatitis in a series of chimpanzees inoculated with sera
containing hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) of varying subspecificities.
Susceptibility appears universal in animals who are initially lacking in serum
antibody (anti-HBs) and antibody induced following experimental infection is
homologous in subspecificity to the subspecificities of the antigenic coat
components of the HBsAg in the inoculum. Results of cross challenge experiments
indicate that animals developing hepatitis following inoculation of HBsAg of one 
subspecificity set in the d/y-w/r system do not again develop hepatitis following
inoculation with HBsAg of the alternate subspecificity set.


PMID: 173599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

