

494. Neuroimage. 2019 Sep;198:44-52. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.05.023. Epub 2019 
May 17.

Microelectrode array electrical impedance tomography for fast functional imaging 
in the thalamus.

Zhu D(1), McEwan A(1), Eiber C(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Electrical and Information Engineering, The University of Sydney,
Camperdown, NSW, Australia.
(2)Save Sight Institute, The University of Sydney, 8 Macquarie St, Sydney, NSW,
Australia; School of Medical Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW,
Australia; Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Australia. Electronic address: calvin.eiber@sydney.edu.au.

Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) has the potential to be able to observe
functional tomographic images of neural activity in the brain at millisecond
time-scales. Prior modelling and experimental work has shown that EIT is capable 
of imaging impedance changes from neural depolarisation in rat somatosensory
cortex. Here, we investigate the feasibility of EIT for imaging impedance changes
using a stereotaxically implanted microelectrode array in the thalamus.
Microelectrode array EIT was simulated using an anatomically accurate marmoset
brain model. Impedance imaging was validated and detectability estimated using
physiological noise recorded from the marmoset visual thalamus. The results
suggest that visual-input-driven impedance changes in visual subcortical bodies
within 300 μm of the implanted array could be reliably reconstructed and
localised, comparable to local field potential measurements. Furthermore, we
demonstrated that microelectrode array EIT could reconstruct concurrent activity 
in multiple subcortical bodies simultaneously.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.05.023 
PMID: 31108212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

