

499. Am J Primatol. 2019 Oct;81(10-11):e983. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22983. Epub 2019 May 6.

Comparative genomics of Bifidobacterium species isolated from marmosets and
humans.

Brown CJ(1)(2)(3), Mtui D(1), Oswald BP(1)(3), Van Leuven JT(2), Vallender EJ(4),
Schultz-Darken N(5), Ross CN(6)(7), Tardif SD(6), Austad SN(8), Forney LJ(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Science, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho.
(2)Center for Modeling Complex Interactions, University of Idaho, Moscow, Idaho.
(3)Institute for Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies, University of Idaho,
Moscow, Idaho.
(4)New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical School, Southborough,
Massachusetts.
(5)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 
Wisconsin.
(6)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(7)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University, San Antonio,
Texas.
(8)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.

The genus Bifidobacterium is purported to have beneficial consequences for human 
health and is a major component of many gastrointestinal probiotics. Although
species of Bifidobacterium are generally at low relative frequency in the adult
human gastrointestinal tract, they can constitute high proportions of the
gastrointestinal communities of adult marmosets. To identify genes that might be 
important for the maintenance of Bifidobacterium in adult marmosets, ten strains 
of Bifidobacterium were isolated from the feces of seven adult marmosets, and
their genomes were sequenced. There were six B. reuteri strains, two B.
callitrichos strains, one B. myosotis sp. nov. and one B. tissieri sp. nov. among
our isolates. Phylogenetic analysis showed that three of the four species we
isolated were most closely related to B. bifidum, B. breve and B. longum, which
are species found in high abundance in human infants. There were 1357 genes that 
were shared by at least one strain of B. reuteri, B. callitrichos, B. breve, and 
B. longum, and 987 genes that were found in all strains of the four species.
There were 106 genes found in B. reuteri and B. callitrichos but not in human
bifidobacteria, and several of these genes were involved in nutrient uptake.
These pathways for nutrient uptake appeared to be specific to Bifidobacterium
from New World monkeys. Additionally, the distribution of Bifidobacterium in
fecal samples from captive adult marmosets constituted as much as 80% of the gut 
microbiome, although this was variable between individuals and colonies. We
suggest that nutrient transporters may be important for the maintenance of
Bifidobacterium during adulthood in marmosets.

Â© 2019 The Authors. American Journal of Primatology Published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22983 
PMCID: PMC6900142
PMID: 31062394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

