

506. Neuroimage. 2019 Aug 15;197:512-526. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.04.045. Epub 
2019 Apr 20.

Decoding of muscle activity from the sensorimotor cortex in freely behaving
monkeys.

Umeda T(1), Koizumi M(2), Katakai Y(3), Saito R(4), Seki K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan. Electronic
address: tumeda@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan.
(3)Administrative Section of Primate Research Facility, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo,
1878502, Japan; The Corporation for Production and Research of Laboratory
Primates, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 3050003, Japan.
(4)Administrative Section of Primate Research Facility, National Institute of
Neuroscience, National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo,
1878502, Japan.
(5)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience, National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, 1878502, Japan. Electronic
address: seki@ncnp.go.jp.

Remarkable advances have recently been made in the development of Brain-Machine
Interface (BMI) technologies for restoring or enhancing motor function. However, 
the application of these technologies may be limited to patients in static
conditions, as these developments have been largely based on studies of animals
(e.g., non-human primates) in constrained movement conditions. The ultimate goal 
of BMI technology is to enable individuals to move their bodies naturally or
control external devices without physical constraints. Here, we demonstrate
accurate decoding of muscle activity from electrocorticogram (ECoG) signals in
unrestrained, freely behaving monkeys. We recorded ECoG signals from the
sensorimotor cortex as well as electromyogram signals from multiple muscles in
the upper arm while monkeys performed two types of movements with no physical
restraints, as follows: forced forelimb movement (lever-pull task) and natural
whole-body movement (free movement within the cage). As in previous reports using
restrained monkeys, we confirmed that muscle activity during forced forelimb
movement was accurately predicted from simultaneously recorded ECoG data. More
importantly, we demonstrated that accurate prediction of muscle activity from
ECoG data was possible in monkeys performing natural whole-body movement. We
found that high-gamma activity in the primary motor cortex primarily contributed 
to the prediction of muscle activity during natural whole-body movement as well
as forced forelimb movement. In contrast, the contribution of high-gamma activity
in the premotor and primary somatosensory cortices was significantly larger
during natural whole-body movement. Thus, activity in a larger area of the
sensorimotor cortex was needed to predict muscle activity during natural
whole-body movement. Furthermore, decoding models obtained from forced forelimb
movement could not be generalized to natural whole-body movement, which suggests 
that decoders should be built individually and according to different behavior
types. These results contribute to the future application of BMI systems in
unrestrained individuals.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.04.045 
PMID: 31015029  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

