

508. Behav Neurosci. 2019 Jun;133(3):320-328. doi: 10.1037/bne0000314. Epub 2019 Apr
22.

Limited capabilities for condition-dependent modulation of vocal turn-taking
behavior in marmoset monkeys.

Dohmen D(1), Hage SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication.

Taking turns plays an important role in primate communication and involves
individuals producing species-specific calls in response to conspecific
vocalizations. Recent studies have revealed that marmoset monkeys are an ideal
primate model system to investigate vocal turn-taking behavior and the
corresponding sensory-motor interactions. However, it is largely unknown how
external factors such as conspecific call latency influence this vocal behavior. 
Using interactive playback, we systematically answered vocalizations of monkeys
with either short- or long-call response latencies. By placing marmosets in these
different behavioral conditions, we demonstrate that vocal turn taking is a
robust behavior with only minor condition-dependent changes that is exhibited not
only in the range of species-specific call latencies of vocal partners but also
in conditions well outside natural behavioral boundaries. We find that specific
features of vocal performance such as call response rates and call sequences
remain surprisingly stable, whereas others such as turn-taking rates and response
latencies exhibit condition-dependent differences during this behavior. These
condition-dependent modulations suggest that a combination of flexible and more
rigid mechanisms control marmoset vocal turn-taking behavior. (PsycINFO Database 
Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/bne0000314 
PMID: 31008628  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

