

509. Evol Hum Behav. 2019 Mar;40(2):214-221. doi: 10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2018.11.006.

Common marmosets are sensitive to simple dependencies at variable distances in an
artificial grammar.

Reber SA(1)(2), Šlipogor V(1), Oh J(1), Ravignani A(3), Hoeschele M(1)(4),
Bugnyar T(1), Fitch WT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090 
Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Philosophy, Lund University, Helgonavägen 3, 22 100 Lund,
Sweden.
(3)Artificial Intelligence Lab, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Pleinlaan 2, 1050
Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Acoustics Research Institute, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Wohllebengasse
12-14, 1040 Vienna, Austria.

Recognizing that two elements within a sequence of variable length depend on each
other is a key ability in understanding the structure of language and music.
Perception of such interdependencies has previously been documented in
chimpanzees in the visual domain and in human infants and common squirrel monkeys
with auditory playback experiments, but it remains unclear whether it typifies
primates in general. Here, we investigated the ability of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus) to recognize and respond to such dependencies. We tested
subjects in a familiarization-discrimination playback experiment using stimuli
composed of pure tones that either conformed or did not conform to a grammatical 
rule. After familiarization to sequences with dependencies, marmosets
spontaneously discriminated between sequences containing and lacking dependencies
('consistent' and 'inconsistent', respectively), independent of stimulus length. 
Marmosets looked more often to the sound source when hearing sequences consistent
with the familiarization stimuli, as previously found in human infants.
Crucially, looks were coded automatically by computer software, avoiding human
bias. Our results support the hypothesis that the ability to perceive
dependencies at variable distances was already present in the common ancestor of 
all anthropoid primates (Simiiformes).

DOI: 10.1016/j.evolhumbehav.2018.11.006 
PMCID: PMC6472617
PMID: 31007503 

