

511. Neural Netw. 2019 Aug;116:25-34. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2019.03.014. Epub 2019 Apr
1.

Semi-supervised deep learning of brain tissue segmentation.

Ito R(1), Nakae K(1), Hata J(2), Okano H(2), Ishii S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Yoshida-honmachi, Kyoto,
606-8501, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan; Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center
for Brain Science, Wako-shi, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, Yoshida-honmachi, Kyoto,
606-8501, Japan. Electronic address: ishii@i.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

Brain image segmentation is of great importance not only for clinical use but
also for neuroscience research. Recent developments in deep neural networks
(DNNs) have led to the application of DNNs to brain image segmentation, which
required extensive human annotations of whole brain images. Annotating
three-dimensional brain images requires laborious efforts by expert anatomists
because of the differences among images in terms of their dimensionality, noise, 
contrast, or ambiguous boundaries that even prevent these experts from
necessarily attaining consistency. This paper proposes a semi-supervised learning
framework to train a DNN based on a relatively small number of annotated
(labeled) images, named atlases, but also a relatively large number of unlabeled 
images by leveraging image registration to attach pseudo-labels to images that
were originally unlabeled. We applied our proposed method to two different
datasets: open human brain images and our original marmoset brain images. When
provided with the same number of atlases for training, we found our method
achieved superior and more stable segmentation results than those by existing
registration-based and DNN-based methods.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2019.03.014 
PMID: 30986724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

