

514. Brain Struct Funct. 2019 Jun;224(5):1957-1969. doi: 10.1007/s00429-019-01869-x.
Epub 2019 Apr 8.

In vivo localization of cortical areas using a 3D computerized atlas of the
marmoset brain.

Risser L(1), Sadoun A(2), Mescam M(2), Strelnikov K(2), Lebreton S(1), Boucher
S(2), Girard P(2)(3), Vayssière N(2), Rosa MGP(4)(5), Fonta C(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Mathématiques de Toulouse, UMR5219, Université de Toulouse, CNRS, 
UPS IMT, 31062, Toulouse Cedex 9, France.
(2)Centre de recherche Cerveau et Cognition (CerCo), Université de Toulouse UPS, 
CNRS, UMR 5549, CHU Purpan, Pavillon Baudot, BP 25202, 31052, Toulouse Cedex 3,
France.
(3)INSERM, Toulouse, France.
(4)Department of Physiology, Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University, 
26 Innovation Walk, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia. marcello.rosa@monash.edu.
(5)Australian Research Council, Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, VIC, 3800, Australia.
marcello.rosa@monash.edu.
(6)Centre de recherche Cerveau et Cognition (CerCo), Université de Toulouse UPS, 
CNRS, UMR 5549, CHU Purpan, Pavillon Baudot, BP 25202, 31052, Toulouse Cedex 3,
France. caroline.fonta@cnrs.fr.

We created a volumetric template of the marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) brain,
which enables localization of the cortical areas defined in the Paxinos et al.
(The marmoset brain in stereotaxic coordinates. Elsevier Academic Press,
Cambridge, 2012) marmoset brain atlas, as well as seven broader cortical regions 
(occipital, temporal, parietal, prefrontal, motor, limbic, insular), different
brain compartments (white matter, gray matter, cerebro-spinal fluid including
ventricular spaces), and various other structures (brain stem, cerebellum,
olfactory bulb, hippocampus). The template was designed from T1-weighted MR
images acquired using a 3 T MRI scanner. It was based on a single fully segmented
marmoset brain image, which was transported onto the mean of 13 adult marmoset
brain images using a diffeomorphic strategy that fully preserves the brain
topology. In addition, we offer an automatic segmentation pipeline which fully
exploits the proposed template. The segmentation pipeline was quantitatively
assessed by comparing the results of manual and automated segmentations. An
associated program, written in Python, can be used from a command-line interface,
or used interactively as a module of the 3DSlicer software. This program can be
applied to the analysis of multimodal images, to map specific cortical areas in
lesions or to define the seeds for further tractography analyses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-019-01869-x 
PMID: 30963231  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

