

521. J Neurophysiol. 2019 May 1;121(5):1924-1937. doi: 10.1152/jn.00504.2018. Epub
2019 Mar 27.

Weighting neurons by selectivity produces near-optimal population codes.

Zavitz E(1)(2)(3), Price NSC(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University , Clayton, Victoria , Australia.
(2)Biomedicine Discovery Institute, Monash University , Clayton, Victoria ,
Australia.
(3)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University , Clayton, Victoria , Australia.

Perception is produced by "reading out" the representation of a sensory stimulus 
contained in the activity of a population of neurons. To examine experimentally
how populations code information, a common approach is to decode a linearly
weighted sum of the neurons' spike counts. This approach is popular because of
the biological plausibility of weighted, nonlinear integration. For neurons
recorded in vivo, weights are highly variable when derived through optimization
methods, but it is unclear how the variability affects decoding performance in
practice. To address this, we recorded from neurons in the middle temporal area
(MT) of anesthetized marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) viewing stimuli comprising a 
sheet of dots that moved coherently in 1 of 12 different directions. We found
that high peak response and direction selectivity both predicted that a neuron
would be weighted more highly in an optimized decoding model. Although learned
weights differed markedly from weights chosen according to a priori rules based
on a neuron's tuning profile, decoding performance was only marginally better for
the learned weights. In the models with a priori rules, selectivity is the best
predictor of weighting, and defining weights according to a neuron's preferred
direction and selectivity improves decoding performance to very near the maximum 
level possible, as defined by the learned weights. NEW & NOTEWORTHY We examined
which aspects of a neuron's tuning account for its contribution to sensory
coding. Strongly direction-selective neurons are weighted most highly by optimal 
decoders trained to discriminate motion direction. Models with predefined
decoding weights demonstrate that this weighting scheme causally improved
direction representation by a neuronal population. Optimizing decoders (using a
generalized linear model or Fisher's linear discriminant) led to only marginally 
better performance than decoders based purely on a neuron's preferred direction
and selectivity.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00504.2018 
PMID: 30917063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

