

523. Comp Med. 2019 Apr 1;69(2):135-143. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000045. Epub 2019
Mar 22.

Serum Cobalamin and Folate Concentrations in Common Marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with Chronic Lymphocytic Enteritis.

Parambeth JC(1), Ross CN(2), Miller AD(3), Austad SN(4), Lidbury JA(5),
Suchodolski JS(5), Steiner JM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A and M University, College 
Station, Texas;, Email: JCyrus@cvm.tamu.edu.
(2)College of Arts and Sciences, Texas A and M University-San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Section of Anatomic Pathology, College of
Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.
(4)Department of Biology and Nathan Shock Center of Excellence in the Basic
Biology of Aging, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama.
(5)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A and M University, College 
Station, Texas.

Serum cobalamin and folate concentrations can serve as surrogate markers of
gastrointestinal disease in dogs and cats, where they can have diagnostic,
therapeutic, and prognostic implications. Chronic disease of the gastrointestinal
tract, particularly chronic lymphocytic enteritis (CLE), occurs frequently in
captive common marmosets. The aims of this study were to validate a commercially 
available assay for measuring serum cobalamin and folate concentrations in common
marmosets, to establish reference intervals for these analytes in healthy
marmosets, and to measure serum concentrations in common marmosets with CLE. The 
commercial assay was linear, accurate, precise, and reproducible for the
measurement of serum cobalamin and folate concentrations in common marmosets. In 
healthy marmosets, the serum cobalamin concentration ranged from 322 to 2642
pg/mL (n = 35) and serum folate concentration from 54.8 to 786.4 ng/mL (n = 37). 
Low serum folate concentrations were moderately sensitive (greater than 70%) for 
CLE, and low serum cobalamin concentrations were moderately (greater than 70%)
specific for CLE. Both serum cobalamin and folate concentrations were relatively 
unchanged in marmosets during 120 to 220 d. Serum cobalamin and folate
concentrations were stable for approximately 7 y when samples were stored at -80 
Â°C. Additional studies are warranted to further study the clinical implications
of low serum cobalamin and folate concentrations in common marmosets.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000045 
PMCID: PMC6464084
PMID: 30902119  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

