

530. Physiol Behav. 2019 May 15;204:290-296. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2019.03.004. Epub 
2019 Mar 7.

Dopamine receptor manipulation does not alter patterns of partner preference in
long-term marmoset pairs.

Carp SB(1), Taylor JH(2), French JA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, 6001 Dodge St, Omaha, NE 68182, United States. Electronic address:
scarp@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska
at Omaha, 6001 Dodge St, Omaha, NE 68182, United States.

The relationship between socially monogamous mates is dynamic and regulated by
neurobiological influences. Research in rodent models has indicated a key role
for the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) and its receptors (DAR) in mediating the
formation and maintenance of monogamous bonds. DAR activation was
pharmacologically manipulated in marmosets housed in long-term pairs. Marmosets
exposed to DAR manipulation were tested in a partner preference test under two
social conditions: one in which their mate could visually observe their
interactions with an opposite-sex individual, and one in which their pair mate
could not visually observe these interactions. Marmosets displayed a spatial
preference for the mate compared to an unfamiliar conspecific, however, they
displayed a sexual preference for an unfamiliar conspecific over their mate. D1R 
manipulation had no impact on marmoset partner preference. However, activation of
D2Rs reduced the time marmosets spent in contact with either stimulus animal,
indicating a decrease in social interest, but did not reduce time spent in
proximity to the stimulus animals nor number of sexual solicitations.
Additionally, social context (visibility of the mate) did not influence marmoset 
behavior. These findings suggest that D2Rs may be involved in regulating
generalized, but not partner-specific, social interest in marmoset monkeys.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2019.03.004 
PMCID: PMC6475494
PMID: 30853621  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

