

542. Comp Med. 2019 Apr 1;69(2):130-134. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000040. Epub 2019
Feb 25.

Fecal Concentrations of N-methylhistamine in Common Marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus).

Parambeth JC(1), LÃ³pez FR(2), Lopez R(3), Keyser SB(4), Lidbury JA(4),
Suchodolski JS(4), Steiner JM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences;, Email: JCyrus@cvm.tamu.edu.
(2)Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory, Center for Bioinformatical and
Genomic Systems Engineering, Texas A and M University, College Station, Texas.
(3)Engineering Experiment Station, Center for Bioinformatical and Genomic Systems
Engineering, Texas A and M University, College Station, Texas.
(4)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences,
College of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences.

Chronic lymphocytic enteritis (CLE) is a frequent disease in common marmosets.
However, no diagnostic test for early detection of CLE is available. Mast cells
have an important role in gastrointestinal disease. The purpose of this study was
to measure fecal concentrations of N-methylhistamine (NMH), a breakdown product
of histamine metabolism, in common marmosets. A previously established NMH gas
chromatography-mass spectrometry assay for canine feces and urine was used, and
partial validation was performed. The reference intervals (n = 30) established
for fecal NMH concentrations in common marmoset were 118.2 ng/g or less for a
single fecal sample, 121.7 ng/g or less for the 3-d mean, and less than or equal 
to 167.5 ng/g for the 3-d maximum. Considerable day-to-day variation was observed
in fecal NMH concentrations; the mean %CV was 42.2% (minimum, 7.1%; maximum,
141.4%). Fecal NMH concentrations were measured in 14 marmosets for which
necropsy reports were available; 7 of the 8 marmosets with CLE and the 1 animal
with lymphoma and ulcerative enteritis had increased fecal NMH concentrations.
Increased fecal NMH concentrations may serve as a potential marker for CLE;
however, further studies exploring the role of mast cells in marmosets with CLE
are needed.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000040 
PMCID: PMC6464085
PMID: 30803469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

