

544. Am J Vet Res. 2019 Mar;80(3):259-264. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.80.3.259.

Development and analytic validation of a sandwich ELISA for the measurement of
α1-proteinase inhibitor concentrations in serum and feces of common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Parambeth JC, Lidbury JA, Suchodolski JS, Steiner JM.

OBJECTIVE To develop and validate a sandwich ELISA for the measurement of
α1-proteinase inhibitor (α1-PI) concentrations in serum and fecal samples
obtained from common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). SAMPLE Leftover serum (n =
42) and fecal (23) samples submitted for diagnostic testing; paired serum and
fecal samples obtained from 30 common marmosets at 2 research colonies.
PROCEDURES A sandwich ELISA was developed and analytically validated by
determining the lower limit of detection, linearity, accuracy, precision, and
reproducibility. Reference intervals for α1-PI concentrations in serum and feces 
of common marmosets were calculated. RESULTS The standard curve was generated for
concentrations between 1 and 100 ng/mL. Mean ± SD observed-to-expected ratio for 
serial dilutions of serum and fecal samples was 117.1 ± 5.6% (range, 112.2% to
123.0%) and 106.1 ± 19.7% (range, 82.6% to 130.2%), respectively. Mean
observed-to-expected ratio for spiking recovery of serum and fecal samples was
102.9 ± 12.1% (range, 86.8% to 115.8%) and 97.9 ± 19.0% (range, 83.0% to 125.1%),
respectively. Reference interval for serum concentrations of α1-PI was 1,254 to
1,813 μg/mL, for 3-day mean fecal concentrations was 11.5 to 42.2 μg/g of feces, 
and for 3-day maximum fecal concentrations was 13.2 to 51.2 μg/g of feces.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE The ELISA was linear, accurate, precise, and
reproducible for quantification of α1-PI concentrations in serum and feces of
common marmosets. However, the ELISA had limited linearity and accuracy for
spiking recovery of fecal samples.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.80.3.259 
PMID: 30801206  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

