

546. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2019 May;69(5):1288-1298. doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003306.
Epub 2019 Feb 21.

Characterization of the phylogenetic diversity of five novel species belonging to
the genus Bifidobacterium: Bifidobacterium castoris sp. nov., Bifidobacterium
callimiconis sp. nov., Bifidobacterium goeldii sp. nov., Bifidobacterium samirii 
sp. nov. and Bifidobacterium dolichotidis sp. nov.

Duranti S(1), Lugli GA(1), Napoli S(1), Anzalone R(1), Milani C(1), Mancabelli
L(1), Alessandri G(2), Turroni F(1), Ossiprandi MC(2), van Sinderen D(2)(3),
Ventura M(1).

Author information: 
(1)1​Laboratory of Probiogenomics, Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences and
Environmental Sustainability, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(2)2​Department of Veterinary Medical Science, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(3)3​APC Microbiome Institute and School of Microbiology, National University of 
Ireland, Cork, Ireland.

Five Bifidobacterium strains, i.e. 2020BT, 2028BT, 2033BT, 2034BT and 2036BT,
were isolated from European beaver (Castor fiber), Goeldi's marmoset
(Callimicogoeldii), black-capped squirrel monkey (Saimiriboliviensissubsp.
peruviensis) and Patagonian mara (Dolichotispatagonum). All of these isolates
were shown to be Gram-positive, facultative anaerobic, d-fructose 6-phosphate
phosphoketolase-positive, non-motile and non-sporulating. Phylogenetic analyses
based on 16S rRNA gene sequences, multilocus sequences (including hsp60, rpoB,
dnaJ, dnaG and clpC genes) and the core genome revealed that bifidobacterial
strains 2020BT, 2028BT, 2033BT, 2034BT and 2036BT exhibit close phylogenetic
relatedness to Bifidobacterium biavatii DSM 23969T, Bifidobacterium bifidum LMG
11041T, Bifidobacterium choerinum LMG 10510T, Bifidobacterium gallicum LMG
11596T, Bifidobacterium imperatoris LMG 30297T, Bifidobacterium italicum LMG
30187T and Bifidobacterium vansinderenii LMG 30126T, respectively. Further
genotyping based on the genome sequence of the isolated strains combined with
phenotypic analyses, clearly show that these strains are distinct from each of
the type strains of the so far recognized Bifidobacterium species. Thus,
Bifidobacterium castoris sp. nov. (2020BT=LMG 30937T=CCUG 72816T),
Bifidobacterium callimiconis sp. nov. (2028BT=LMG 30938T=CCUG 72814T),
Bifidobacterium samirii sp. nov. (2033BT=LMG 30940T=CCUG 72817T), Bifidobacterium
goeldii sp. nov. (2034BT=LMG 30939T=CCUG 72815T) and Bifidobacterium dolichotidis
sp. nov. (2036BT=LMG 30941T=CCUG 72818T) are proposed as novel Bifidobacterium
species.

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.003306 
PMID: 30789326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

