

558. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2019 Feb 19;116(8):3239-3244. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1816653116. Epub 2019 Feb 4.

Local homogeneity of tonotopic organization in the primary auditory cortex of
marmosets.

Zeng HH(1)(2), Huang JF(1)(2), Chen M(1), Wen YQ(1), Shen ZM(3), Poo MM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, Key
Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, People's
Republic of China.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, People's Republic
of China.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, Key
Laboratory of Primate Neurobiology, Center for Excellence in Brain Science and
Intelligence Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, People's
Republic of China; zmshen@ion.ac.cn mpoo@ion.ac.cn.

Marmoset has emerged as a useful nonhuman primate species for studying brain
structure and function. Previous studies on the mouse primary auditory cortex
(A1) showed that neurons with preferential frequency-tuning responses are mixed
within local cortical regions, despite a large-scale tonotopic organization. Here
we found that frequency-tuning properties of marmoset A1 neurons are highly
uniform within local cortical regions. We first defined the tonotopic map of A1
using intrinsic optical imaging and then used in vivo two-photon calcium imaging 
of large neuronal populations to examine the tonotopic preference at the
single-cell level. We found that tuning preferences of layer 2/3 neurons were
highly homogeneous over hundreds of micrometers in both horizontal and vertical
directions. Thus, marmoset A1 neurons are distributed in a tonotopic manner at
both macro- and microscopic levels. Such organization is likely to be important
for the organization of auditory circuits in the primate brain.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1816653116 
PMCID: PMC6386663
PMID: 30718428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

