

559. J Neurosci. 2019 Apr 17;39(16):3094-3107. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2451-18.2018.
Epub 2019 Feb 4.

Glutamate Within the Marmoset Anterior Hippocampus Interacts with Area 25 to
Regulate the Behavioral and Cardiovascular Correlates of High-Trait Anxiety.

Zeredo JL(1)(2), Quah SKL(2), Wallis CU(2), Alexander L(2), Cockcroft GJ(2),
Santangelo AM(2), Xia J(3), Shiba Y(2), Dalley JW(3)(4), Cardinal RN(4)(5),
Roberts AC(2), Clarke HF(6).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Health Science and Technology, University of Brasilia,
Brasilia, Brazil.
(2)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, CB2 3EB, United 
Kingdom.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, and.
(5)Liaison Psychiatry Service, Cambridge and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust,
Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridg, CB2 OQQ, United Kingdom.
(6)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom, hfc23@cam.ac.uk.

High-trait anxiety is a risk factor for the development of affective disorders
and has been associated with decreased cardiovascular and behavioral responsivity
to acute stressors in humans that may increase the risk of developing
cardiovascular disease. Although human neuroimaging studies of high-trait anxiety
reveals dysregulation in primate cingulate areas 25 and 32 and the anterior
hippocampus (aHipp) and rodent studies reveal the importance of aHipp
glutamatergic hypofunction, the causal involvement of aHipp glutamate and its
interaction with these areas in the primate brain is unknown. Accordingly, we
correlated marmoset trait anxiety scores to their postmortem aHipp glutamate
levels and showed that low glutamate in the right aHipp is associated with
high-trait anxiety in marmosets. Moreover, pharmacologically increasing aHipp
glutamate reduced anxiety levels in highly anxious marmosets in two
uncertainty-based tests of anxiety: exposure to a human intruder with uncertain
intent and unpredictable loud noise. In the human intruder test, increasing aHipp
glutamate decreased anxiety by increasing approach to the intruder. In the
unpredictable threat test, animals showed blunted behavioral and cardiovascular
responsivity after control infusions, which was normalized by increasing aHipp
glutamate. However, this aHipp-mediated anxiolytic effect was blocked by
simultaneous pharmacological inactivation of area 25, but not area 32, areas
which when inactivated independently reduced and had no effect on anxiety,
respectively. These findings provide causal evidence in male and female primates 
that aHipp glutamatergic hypofunction and its regulation by area 25 contribute to
the behavioral and cardiovascular symptoms of endogenous high-trait
anxiety.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT High-trait anxiety predisposes sufferers to the
development of anxiety and depression. Although neuroimaging of these disorders
and rodent modeling implicate dysregulation in hippocampal glutamate and the
subgenual/perigenual cingulate cortices (areas 25/32), the causal involvement of 
these structures in endogenous high-trait anxiety and their interaction are
unknown. Here, we demonstrate that increased trait anxiety in marmoset monkeys
correlates with reduced hippocampal glutamate and that increasing hippocampal
glutamate release in high-trait-anxious monkeys normalizes the aberrant
behavioral and cardiovascular responsivity to potential threats. This
normalization was blocked by simultaneous inactivation of area 25, but not area
32. These findings provide casual evidence in primates that hippocampal
glutamatergic hypofunction regulates endogenous high-trait anxiety and the
hippocampal-area 25 circuit is a potential therapeutic target.

Copyright Â© 2019 Zeredo et al.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2451-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6468106
PMID: 30718320  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial
interests.

