

560. Behav Processes. 2019 May;162:55-63. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2019.01.014. Epub 2019
Feb 1.

Auditory sequence perception in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Wakita M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
Kanrin 41-2, Inuyama, Aichi, 484-8506, Japan. Electronic address:
wakita.masumi.2e@kyoto-u.ac.jp.

One of the essential linguistic and musical faculties of humans is the ability to
recognize the structure of sound configurations and to extract words and melodies
from continuous sound sequences. However, monkeys' ability to process the
temporal structure of sounds is controversial. Here, to investigate whether
monkeys can analyze the temporal structure of auditory patterns, two common
marmosets were trained to discriminate auditory patterns in three experiments. In
Experiment 1, the marmosets were able to discriminate trains of either 0.5- or
2-kHz tones repeated in either 50- or 200-ms intervals. However, the marmosets
were not able to discriminate ABAB from AABB patterns consisting of A
(0.5-kHz/50-ms pulse) and B (2-kHz/200-ms pulse) elements in Experiment 2, and A 
(0.5-kHz/50-ms pulse) and B (0.5-kHz/200-ms pulse) [or A (0.5-kHz/200-ms pulse)
and B (2-kHz/200-ms pulse)] in Experiment 3. Consequently, the results indicated 
that the marmosets could not perceive tonal structures in terms of the temporal
configuration of discrete sounds, whereas they could recognize the acoustic
features of the stimuli. The present findings were supported by cognitive and
brain studies that indicated a limited ability to process sound sequences.
However, more studies are needed to confirm the ability of auditory sequence
perception in common marmosets.

Copyright Â© 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2019.01.014 
PMID: 30716383  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

