

569. Cereb Cortex. 2019 Apr 1;29(4):1706-1718. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bhy327.

Thalamocortical Afferents Innervate the Cortical Subplate much Earlier in
Development in Primate than in Rodent.

Alzu'bi A(1)(2)(3), Homman-Ludiye J(4), Bourne JA(4), Clowry GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Framlington Place, Newcastle 
upon Tyne, UK.
(2)Institute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(3)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Yarmouk University,
Irbid, Jordan.
(4)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria, Australia.

Erratum in
    Cereb Cortex. 2019 Dec 17;29(12):5316.

The current model, based on rodent data, proposes that thalamocortical afferents 
(TCA) innervate the subplate towards the end of cortical neurogenesis. This
implies that the laminar identity of cortical neurons is specified by intrinsic
instructions rather than information of thalamic origin. In order to determine
whether this mechanism is conserved in the primates, we examined the growth of
thalamocortical (TCA) and corticofugal afferents in early human and monkey fetal 
development. In the human, TCA, identified by secretagogin, calbindin, and ROBO1 
immunoreactivity, were observed in the internal capsule of the ventral
telencephalon as early as 7-7.5 PCW, crossing the pallial/subpallial boundary
(PSB) by 8 PCW before the calretinin immunoreactive corticofugal fibers do.
Furthermore, TCA were observed to be passing through the intermediate zone and
innervating the presubplate of the dorsolateral cortex, and already by 10-12 PCW 
TCAs were occupying much of the cortex. Observations at equivalent stages in the 
marmoset confirmed that this pattern is conserved across primates. Therefore, our
results demonstrate that in primates, TCAs innervate the cortical presubplate at 
earlier stages than previously demonstrated by acetylcholinesterase
histochemistry, suggesting that pioneer thalamic afferents may contribute to
early cortical circuitry that can participate in defining cortical neuron
phenotypes.

Â© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bhy327 
PMCID: PMC6418397
PMID: 30668846  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

