

579. Primates. 2019 Mar;60(2):119-123. doi: 10.1007/s10329-018-00713-w. Epub 2019 Jan 
12.

Pulmonary actinomycosis in a free-living black-tufted marmoset (Callithrix
penicillata).

Sousa DER(1), Wilson TM(1), Machado M(1), Pereira AABG(1), Costa GRT(2), Dutra
V(3), Castro MB(4).

Author information: 
(1)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
(2)Environmental Health Surveillance Directorate of the Federal District (DIVAL),
SAAN-Estrada do Contorno do Bosque, lote 04, Brasília, DF, 70790-060, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Veterinary Molecular Biology, Federal University of Mato Grosso,
Veterinary Hospital, Av. Fernando Corrêa da Costa 2367, Boa Esperança, Cuiabá,
MT, 78060-900, Brazil.
(4)Veterinary Pathology Laboratory, University of Brasília, Via L4 Norte, Campus 
Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Asa Norte, Brasília, DF, 70910-900, Brazil.
mbcastro@unb.br.

Actinomycosis is a very rare infection in wild animals with a few reports in
captive non-human primates. Herein we report a case of pulmonary actinomycosis in
a free-living black-tufted marmoset in the urban area of the Federal District,
Brazil. The animal presented severe dyspnea and died in the garden of a
residence. At necropsy, the left-pulmonary lobes showed multiple nodules filled
with purulent content. A myriad of beaded, branching, filamentous Gram-positive
and modified Ziehl-Neelsen-negative bacilli arranged in aggregates or star-like
colonies, surrounded by macrophages, neutrophils, and Splendori-Hoepli phenomenon
were observed in histological sections of the lungs. According to the
pathological findings and characteristic morphotintorial pattern of the
infectious agent, pulmonary actinomycosis was diagnosed. Until now, fatal
pulmonary actinomycosis had never been reported in free-living Simiiformes.
Knowledge about the diseases that affect commensal free-range simians in urban
areas forms the basis for actions aimed at conservation of the species.

DOI: 10.1007/s10329-018-00713-w 
PMID: 30635747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

