

58. Elife. 2021 Oct 19;10. pii: e64175. doi: 10.7554/eLife.64175.

scAAVengr, a transcriptome-based pipeline for quantitative ranking of engineered 
AAVs with single-cell resolution.

Öztürk BE(1), Johnson ME(1), Kleyman M(2), Turunç S(1), He J(3), Jabalameli S(1),
Xi Z(1)(4), Visel M(5), Dufour VL(6), Iwabe S(6), Pompeo Marinho LFL(6), Aguirre 
GD(6), Sahel JA(1), Schaffer DV(5)(7), Pfenning AR(2), Flannery JG(5)(8), Beltran
WA(6), Stauffer WR(3), Byrne LC(1)(3)(6)(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, United
States.
(2)Computational Biology, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University,
Pittsburgh, United States.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, United
States.
(4)Eye Center of Xiangya Hospital, Hunan Key Laboratory of Ophthalmology, Central
South University, Changsha, China.
(5)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley,
Berkeley, United States.
(6)Division of Experimental Retinal Therapies, Department of Clinical Sciences & 
Advanced Medicine, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, United States.
(7)Chemical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, United
States.
(8)Vision Science, Herbert Wertheim School of Optometry, University of California
Berkeley, Berkeley, United States.
(9)Department of Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, United
States.

Background: Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene therapies are rapidly
advancing to the clinic, and AAV engineering has resulted in vectors with
increased ability to deliver therapeutic genes. Although the choice of vector is 
critical, quantitative comparison of AAVs, especially in large animals, remains
challenging.
Methods: Here, we developed an efficient single-cell AAV engineering pipeline
(scAAVengr) to simultaneously quantify and rank efficiency of competing AAV
vectors across all cell types in the same animal.
Results: To demonstrate proof-of-concept for the scAAVengr workflow, we
quantified - with cell-type resolution - the abilities of naturally occurring and
newly engineered AAVs to mediate gene expression in primate retina following
intravitreal injection. A top performing variant identified using this pipeline, 
K912, was used to deliver SaCas9 and edit the rhodopsin gene in macaque retina,
resulting in editing efficiency similar to infection rates detected by the
scAAVengr workflow. scAAVengr was then used to identify top-performing AAV
variants in mouse brain, heart, and liver following systemic injection.
Conclusions: These results validate scAAVengr as a powerful method for
development of AAV vectors.
Funding: This work was supported by funding from the Ford Foundation, NEI/NIH,
Research to Prevent Blindness, Foundation Fighting Blindness, UPMC Immune
Transplant and Therapy Center, and the Van Sloun fund for canine genetic
research.

plain-language-summary: Gene therapy is an experimental approach to treating
disease that involves altering faulty genes or replacing them with new, working
copies. Most often, the new genetic material is delivered into cells using a
modified virus that no longer causes disease, called a viral vector.
Virus-mediated gene therapies are currently being explored for degenerative eye
diseases, such as retinitis pigmentosa, and neurological disorders, like
Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. A number of gene therapies have also been
approved for treating some rare cancers, blood disorders and a childhood form of 
motor neuron disease. Despite the promise of virus-mediated gene therapy, there
are significant hurdles to its widespread success. Viral vectors need to deliver 
enough genetic material to the right cells without triggering an immune response 
or causing serious side effects. Selecting an optimal vector is key to achieving 
this. A type of viruses called adeno-associated viruses (AAV) are prime
candidates, partly because they can be easily engineered. However, accurately
comparing the safety and efficacy of newly engineered AAVs is difficult, due to
variation between test subjects and the labor and cost involved in careful
testing. Öztürk et al. addressed this issue by developing an experimental
pipeline called scAAVengr for comparing gene therapy vectors head-to-head. The
process involves tagging potential AAV vectors with unique genetic barcodes,
which can then be detected and quantified in individual cells using a technique
called single-cell RNA sequencing. This means that when several vectors are used 
to infect lab-grown cells or a test animal at the same time, they can be tracked.
The vectors can then be ranked on their ability to infect specific cell types and
deliver useful genetic material. Using scAAVengr, Öztürk et al. compared viral
vectors designed to target the light-sensitive cells of the retina, which allow
animals to see. First, a set of promising viral vectors were evaluated using the 
scAAVengr pipeline in the eyes of marmosets and macaques, two small primates.
Precise levels and locations of gene delivery were quantified. The top-performing
vector was then identified and used to deliver Cas9, a genome editing tool, to
primate retinas. Öztürk et al. also used scAAVengr to compare viral vectors in
mice, analysing the vectors’ ability to deliver their genetic cargo to the brain,
heart, and liver. These experiments demonstrated that scAAVengr can be used to
evaluate vectors in multiple tissues and in different organisms. In summary, this
work outlines a method for identifying and precisely quantifying the performance 
of top-performing viral vectors for gene therapy. By aiding the selection of
optimal viral vectors, the scAAVengr pipeline could help to improve the success
of preclinical studies and early clinical trials testing gene therapies.
© 2021, Öztürk et al.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.64175 
PMCID: PMC8612735
PMID: 34664552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: BÖ, MJ, MK, ST, JH, SJ, ZX, VD, SI, LP, GA No
competing interests declared, MV is an inventor on AAV capsid variants (US patent
IDs: 10,214,785, 10,745,453). MV has also received royalty payments from UC
Berkeley. The author has no other competing interests to declare, JS has served
as a consultant (with no consulting fee) for Pixium Vision, GenSight Biologics
and SparingVision. Personal financial interests: Pixium Vision, GenSight
Biologics, Prophesee and Chronolife, SparingVision, SHARPEYE, Vegavect, Newsight 
Therapeutics. The author has no other competing interests to declare, DS is named
as an inventor on patent applications on AAV capsid variants (U.S. Patent
Applications No. 16/315,032, 16/486,681). DS is also a co-founder of 4D Molecular
Therapeutics, and DS performs consultancy and owns stock options in this company.
The author has no other competing interests to declare, AP has received an
honorarium from the University of Rhode Island, and has applied for patents on
specific Nuclear-Anchored Independent Labeling System (PCT/US2020/038520 and
PCT/US2020/038528). The author has no other competing interests to declare, JF is
an inventor on patent application on AAV capsid variants (U.S. Patent Application
No. 16/315,032, 16/486,681). The author has no other competing interests to
declare, WB is an inventor on patent application on AAV capsid
variants(16/315,032). The author has no other competing interests to declare, WS 
is an inventor on a patent application for methods of AAV capsid development
(PCT/US2019/068489). The author has no other competing interests to declare, LB
is named as an inventor on patent applications on AAV capsid variants and AAV
screening methods (U.S. Patent Applications No. 16/315,032, 16/486,681,
PCT/US2019/068489). LB has consulted on AAV-mediated gene therapy for Vedere
Therapeutics, and is a named founder of Vegavect and Newsight Therapeutics. The
author has no other competing interests to declare

