

580. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22949. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22949. Epub 2019 Jan 8.

Age-related changes in myelin of axons of the corpus callosum and cognitive
decline in common marmosets.

Phillips KA(1)(2), Watson CM(1), Bearman A(1), Knippenberg AR(1), Adams J(2),
Ross C(2)(3)(4), Tardif SD(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas.
(2)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.
(3)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University-San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas.
(4)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.

Executive control is a higher-level cognitive function that involves a range of
different processes that are involved in the planning, coordination, execution,
and inhibition of responses. Many of the processes associated with executive
control, such as response inhibition and mental flexibility, decline with age.
Degeneration of white matter architecture is considered to be the one of the key 
factors underlying cognitive decline associated with aging. Here we investigated 
how white matter changes of the corpus callosum were related to cognitive aging
in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). We hypothesized that reduction in
myelin thickness, myelin density, and myelin fraction of axonal fibers in the
corpus callosum would be associated with performance on a task of executive
function in a small sample of geriatric marmosets (n = 4) and young adult
marmosets (n = 2). Our results indicated declines in myelin thickness, density,
and myelin fraction with age. Considerable variability was detected on these
characteristics of myelin and cognitive performance assessed via the detoured
reach task. Age-related changes in myelin in Region II of the corpus callosum
were predictive of cognitive performance on the detoured reach task. Thus the
detoured reach task appears to also measure aspects of corticostriatal function
in addition to prefrontal cortical function.

© 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22949 
PMCID: PMC6685070
PMID: 30620098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

