

583. Nutr Healthy Aging. 2019;5(2):97-109. doi: 10.3233/nha-180046. Epub 2019 Sep 24.

Aging research using the common marmoset: Focus on aging interventions.

Ross CN(1)(2), Salmon AB(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University San Antonio, San
Antonio, TX, USA.
(2)The Sam and Ann Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies and The
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio TX, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, The University of Texas Health Science
Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(4)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans Health
Care System, San Antonio, TX, USA.

Traditional animal models have been used to make seminal discoveries in
biomedical research including a better understanding of the biology of the aging 
process. However, translation of these findings from laboratory to clinical
populations has likely been hindered due to fundamental biological and
physiological differences between common laboratory animals and humans. Non-human
primates (NHP) may serve as an effective bridge towards translation, and
short-lived NHP like the common marmoset offer many advantages as models for
aging research. Here, we address these advantages and discuss what is currently
understood about the changes in physiology and pathology that occur with age in
the marmoset. In addition, we discuss how aging research might best utilize this 
model resource, and outline an ongoing study to address whether pharmaceutical
intervention can slow aging in the marmoset. With this manuscript, we clarify how
common marmosets might assist researchers in geroscience as a potential model for
pre-clinical translation.

DOI: 10.3233/nha-180046 
PMCID: PMC8018684
PMID: 33817407 

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors have no conflict
of interest to report.

