

584. J Neurosci. 2019 Jan 30;39(5):918-928. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0353-18.2018. Epub 
2018 Dec 26.

Adverse Effects of Aromatase Inhibition on the Brain and Behavior in a Nonhuman
Primate.

Gervais NJ(1), Remage-Healey L(2), Starrett JR(2), Pollak DJ(2), Mong JA(3),
Lacreuse A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences and Center for Neuroendocrine
Studies, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003 and
nicole.gervais@utoronto.ca.
(2)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences and Center for Neuroendocrine
Studies, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003 and.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21201.

Breast cancer patients using aromatase inhibitors (AIs) as an adjuvant therapy
often report side effects, including hot flashes, mood changes, and cognitive
impairment. Despite long-term use in humans, little is known about the effects of
continuous AI administration on the brain and cognition. We used a primate model 
of human cognitive aging, the common marmoset, to examine the effects of a 4-week
daily administration of the AI letrozole (20 μg, p.o.) on cognition, anxiety,
thermoregulation, brain estrogen content, and hippocampal pyramidal cell
physiology. Letrozole treatment was administered to both male and female
marmosets and reduced peripheral levels of estradiol (E2), but unexpectedly
increased E2 levels in the hippocampus. Spatial working memory and intrinsic
excitability of hippocampal neurons were negatively affected by the treatment
possibly due to increased hippocampal E2. While no changes in hypothalamic E2
were observed, thermoregulation was disrupted by letrozole in females only,
indicating some impact on hypothalamic activity. These findings suggest adverse
effects of AIs on the primate brain and call for new therapies that effectively
prevent breast cancer recurrence while minimizing side effects that further
compromise quality of life.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Aromatase inhibitors (AIs) are 
used as an adjuvant therapy for estrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer and are 
associated with side effects, including hot flashes, depression/anxiety, and
memory deficits severe enough for many women to discontinue this life-saving
treatment. AIs are also used by men, yet sex differences in the reported side
effects have not been systematically studied. We show that AI-treated male and
female marmosets exhibit behavioral changes consistent with these CNS symptoms,
as well as elevated hippocampal estradiol and compromised hippocampal physiology.
These findings illustrate the need for (1) a greater understanding of the precise
mechanisms by which AIs impact brain function and (2) the development of new
treatment approaches for breast cancer patients that minimize adverse effects on 
the brain.

Copyright © 2019 the authors 0270-6474/19/390918-11$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0353-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6382974
PMID: 30587540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

