

585. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22944. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22944. Epub 2018 Dec 26.

The metabolome as a biomarker of mortality risk in the common marmoset.

Hoffman JM(1), Ross C(2), Tran V(3)(4), Promislow DEL(5)(6), Tardif S(7), Jones
DP(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama.
(2)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University San Antonio, San
Antonio, Texas.
(3)Division of Pulmonary Allergy and Critical Care, Department of Medicine, Emory
University, Atlanta, Georgia.
(4)Clinical Biomarkers Laboratory, Department of Medicine, Emory University,
Atlanta, Georgia.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(6)Department of Biology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(7)Southwest National Primate Research Center, Texas Biomedical Research
Institute, San Antonio, Texas.

Recently, the common marmoset has been proposed as a non-human primate model of
aging. Their short lifespan coupled with pathologies that are similar to humans
make them an ideal model to understand the genetic, metabolic, and environmental 
factors that influence aging and longevity. However, many of the underlying
physiological changes that occur with age in the marmoset are unknown. Here, we
attempt to determine if individual metabolites are predictive of future death and
to recapitulate past metabolomic results after a change in environment (move
across the country) was imposed on a colony of marmosets. We first determined
that low levels of tryptophan metabolism metabolites were associated with risk of
death in a 2-year follow-up in the animals, suggesting these metabolites may be
used as future biomarkers of mortality. We also discovered that betaine
metabolism and methionine metabolism are associated with aging regardless of
environment for the animals, or of metabolomic assay technique. These two
metabolic pathways are therefore of particular interest to examine as future
targets for health and lifespan extending interventions. Many of the pathways
associated with age in our first study of marmoset metabolomics were not found to
have significant age effects in our second study, suggesting more work is needed 
to understand the reproducibility of large scale metabolomic studies in mammalian
models. Overall, we were able to show that while several metabolomics markers
show promise in understanding health and lifespan relationships with aging, it is
possible that choice of technique for assay and reproducibility in these types of
studies are still issues that need to be examined further.

Â© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22944 
PMCID: PMC6599709
PMID: 30585652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

