

589. J Neurosci. 2019 Feb 6;39(6):1020-1029. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2595-18.2018. Epub
2018 Dec 10.

Intrinsic Functional Boundaries of Lateral Frontal Cortex in the Common Marmoset 
Monkey.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Gilbert KM(1), Gati JS(1), Menon RS(1)(2), Everling S(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, and.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario,
London, Ontario N6A 5B7, Canada.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, Robarts Research Institute, and
severlin@uwo.ca.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate species
that has been recently targeted as a potentially powerful preclinical model of
human prefrontal cortex dysfunction. Although the structural boundaries of
frontal cortex were described in marmosets at the start of the 20th century
(Brodmann, 1909) and refined more recently (Paxinos et al., 2012), the broad
functional boundaries of marmoset frontal cortex have yet to be established. In
this study, we sought to functionally derive boundaries of the marmoset lateral
frontal cortex (LFC) using ultra-high field (9.4 T) resting-state functional
magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI). We collected RS-fMRI data in seven (four
females, three males) lightly anesthetized marmosets and used a data-driven
hierarchical clustering approach to derive subdivisions of the LFC based on
intrinsic functional connectivity. We then conducted seed-based analyses to
assess the functional connectivity between these clusters and the rest of the
brain. The results demonstrated seven distinct functional clusters within the
LFC. The functional connectivity patterns of these clusters with the rest of the 
brain were also found to be distinct and organized along a rostrocaudal gradient,
consonant with those found in humans and macaques. Overall, these results support
the view that marmosets are a promising preclinical modeling species for studying
LFC dysfunction related to neuropsychiatric or neurodegenerative human brain
diseases.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT The common marmoset is a New World primate that
has garnered recent attention as a powerful complement to canonical Old World
primate (e.g., macaques) and rodent models (e.g., rats, mice) for preclinical
modeling of the human brain in healthy and diseased states. A critical step in
the development of marmosets for such models is to characterize functional
network topologies of frontal cortex in healthy, normally functioning marmosets, 
that is, how these circuitries are functionally divided and how those topologies 
compare to human circuitry. To our knowledge, this is the first study to
demonstrate functional boundaries of the lateral frontal cortex and the
corresponding network topologies in marmoset monkeys.

Copyright Â© 2019 the authors 0270-6474/19/391020-10$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.2595-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6363921
PMID: 30530862  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

