

60. J Anim Ecol. 2022 Jan;91(1):138-153. doi: 10.1111/1365-2656.13609. Epub 2021 Oct 
31.

Foraging networks and social tolerance in a cooperatively breeding primate
(Callithrix jacchus).

De la Fuente MF(1), Sueur C(2), Garber PA(3), Bicca-Marques JC(4), Souto A(5),
Schiel N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil.
(2)Institut Pluridisciplinaire Hubert Curien (IPHC), Université de Strasbourg,
CNRS, Strasbourg, France.
(3)Department of Anthropology, Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation
Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA.
(4)Escola de Ciências da Saúde e da Vida, Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Rio
Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(5)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

Within-group competition over food resources can be a major cost of social
living. In the wild, foragers are confronted with social (e.g. hierarchical rank)
and ecological (e.g. food availability and distribution) challenges that affect
their foraging decisions and feeding success. Exhibiting prosocial behaviours,
such as tolerance at feeding sites, can benefit group members by developing
affiliative social relationships, enhancing access to resources and maximizing
fitness. We examined social tolerance at feeding sites in Callithrix jacchus, a
cooperatively breeding primate species. We investigated the set of social (rank, 
age and sex) and ecological (food availability) factors that influence the
structure and dynamics of within-group foraging association networks. We designed
and conducted an experimental field study of four wild groups of common marmosets
in which we controlled food distribution (concentrated or scattered) and
productivity (high, medium or low food rewards). Then, we used social network
analyses to assess the number and strength of foraging associations among group
members, their effects on individual food consumption, and whether recent
experiences with conspecifics during foraging affected subsequent associations.
Overall, common marmoset foraging association networks were cohesive, as group
members jointly occupied feeding sites. The number and strength of associations
varied depending on the ecological context. Associations were stronger during
conditions in which food was concentrated at a single site. Individuals obtained 
greater access to food resources when sharing a feeding site with conspecifics,
but once a food item was obtained, the forager moved to a nearby tree and
consumed it away from others. Additionally, the strength of previous foraging
associations and subsequent levels of social tolerance at feeding sites were
positively related, a relationship compatible with the ability of memorizing
associations over time and recalling the information in future decision-making.
In sum, marmosets adjusted their partner choices and the strength of foraging
associations in response to food availability. They exhibited increased social
tolerance at feeding sites during conditions in which opportunities for contest
competition were expected to be greatest. These cooperative breeding primates
appear to mutually benefit by maintaining cohesive and strong affiliative
relationships, and by increasing opportunities for coordinated behaviour and
offspring survival.

Publisher: A competição por recursos alimentares dentro do grupo pode ser um
grande custo da vida social. Na natureza, os forrageadores são confrontados com
desafios sociais (e.g. posição hierárquica) e ecológicos (e.g. disponibilidade e 
distribuição de alimentos) que afetam suas decisões de forrageio e seu sucesso
alimentar. Exibir comportamentos pró-sociais, como tolerância em sítios de
alimentação, pode beneficiar os membros do grupo, desenvolvendo relações sociais 
afiliativas, melhorando o acesso aos recursos e maximizando sua aptidão
evolutiva. Examinamos a tolerância social de um primata com reprodução
cooperativa (Callithrix jacchus) em sítios de alimentação. Investigamos a
influência de um conjunto de fatores sociais (hierarquia, idade, sexo) e
ecológicos (disponibilidade de alimento) na estrutura e dinâmica das redes de
associação de forrageio dentro do grupo social. Planejamos e conduzimos um
experimento de campo com quatro grupos de saguis-comuns de vida livre, no qual
controlamos a distribuição (concentrada e dispersa) e a produtividade de alimento
(altas, médias ou baixas recompensas). Usamos análise de redes sociais para
avaliar o número e a força das associações de forrageio entre os membros do
grupo, seu efeito no consumo individual de alimento, e se experiências recentes
de forrageio entre coespecíficos afetam associações subsequentes. Em geral, as
redes de associação de forrageio dos saguis foram coesas e os membros de cada
grupo ocuparam sítios de alimentação em conjunto. O número e a força das
associações variaram dependendo do contexto ecológico. As associações foram mais 
fortes durante as condições em que o alimento se encontrava concentrado em um
sítio. Os indivíduos obtiveram maior acesso aos recursos quando compartilharam o 
sítio de alimentação com coespecíficos, e uma vez que o item alimentar era
obtido, o forrageador o consumia em uma árvore próxima, longe dos outros. Além
disso, a força das associações recentes e os níveis subsequentes de tolerância
social em sítios de alimentação foram positivamente relacionados, compatível com 
a capacidade de memorizar associações ao longo do tempo e relembrá-las em tomadas
de decisão futuras. Em conclusão, os saguis ajustaram suas escolhas de parceiros 
e a força das associações de forrageio em resposta à disponibilidade de alimento.
Eles exibiram uma maior tolerância social em sítios de alimentação durante as
condições em que se esperava que as oportunidades de competição direta fossem
maiores. Estes primatas com reprodução cooperativa parecem se beneficiar
mutuamente ao manterem relações afiliativas coesas e fortes, as quais aumentam as
oportunidades para comportamentos coordenados e a sobrevivência da prole.
© 2021 British Ecological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/1365-2656.13609 
PMID: 34655252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

