

605. Neurobiol Aging. 2019 Feb;74:1-14. doi: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2018.10.003.
Epub 2018 Oct 11.

Key periods of cognitive decline in a nonhuman primate model of cognitive aging, 
the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Sadoun A(1), Rosito M(1), Fonta C(1), Girard P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse, UPS, Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition,
Toulouse, France; CerCo, CNRS UMR, 5549 Toulouse, France.
(2)Université de Toulouse, UPS, Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition,
Toulouse, France; CerCo, CNRS UMR, 5549 Toulouse, France; INSERM, Toulouse,
France. Electronic address: pascal.girard@cnrs.fr.

It is well established that human life expectancy increases considerably with an 
ever-growing number of people suffering from age-related cognitive decline and
degenerative brain diseases. This necessitates the development of animal models
to counteract or stop the progression of the decline early enough. Presently,
primate models are few, and many studies argue for the marmoset as an interesting
primate model presenting a short life span and being easily available in research
laboratories. In this article, we propose the marmoset as a valid model for
cognitive decline. Using a computer touch screen, we trained 35 marmosets from 2 
to 14 years of age to perform reversal learning and delayed-matching-to-position 
tasks. We found typical age-related cognitive deficits related to executive
functions and spatial working memory. Applying a recursive algorithm, we detected
2 critical periods from which deficits appear. Mainly, response strategy deficits
appear from age 4, whereas impairments in inhibitory control appear from age 7-8.
Furthermore, the presence of outliers, sometimes at an early age, suggests
pathological cognitive deficits that would require imaging exploration in
parallel to behavior.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2018.10.003 
PMID: 30391909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

