

61. J Neurosci. 2021 Nov 10;41(45):9374-9391. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0367-21.2021.
Epub 2021 Oct 13.

Broadband Dynamics Rather than Frequency-Specific Rhythms Underlie Prediction
Error in the Primate Auditory Cortex.

Canales-Johnson A(1)(2), Teixeira Borges AF(3), Komatsu M(4), Fujii N(4),
Fahrenfort JJ(5)(6), Miller KJ(7), Noreika V(8).

Author information: 
(1)Consciousness and Cognition Lab, Department of Psychology, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EB, United Kingdom afc37@cam.ac.uk
v.noreika@qmul.ac.uk.
(2)Vicerrectoría de Investigación y Posgrado, Universidad Católica del Maule,
Talca 3480122, Chile.
(3)Department of Integrative Neurophysiology, Center for Neurogenomics and
Cognitive Research, VU University Amsterdam, 1081 HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Laboratory for Adaptive Intelligence, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Saitama
351-0198, Japan.
(5)Department of Psychology, University of Amsterdam, 1018 WS, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Experimental and Applied Psychology, Vrije University Amsterdam,
1081 HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905.
(8)Department of Biological and Experimental Psychology, School of Biological and
Behavioural Sciences, Queen Mary University of London, London E1 4NS, United
Kingdom afc37@cam.ac.uk v.noreika@qmul.ac.uk.

Detection of statistical irregularities, measured as a prediction error response,
is fundamental to the perceptual monitoring of the environment. We studied
whether prediction error response is associated with neural oscillations or
asynchronous broadband activity. Electrocorticography was conducted in three male
monkeys, who passively listened to the auditory roving oddball stimuli. Local
field potentials (LFPs) recorded over the auditory cortex underwent spectral
principal component analysis, which decoupled broadband and rhythmic components
of the LFP signal. We found that the broadband component captured the prediction 
error response, whereas none of the rhythmic components were associated with
statistical irregularities of sounds. The broadband component displayed more
stochastic, asymmetrical multifractal properties than the rhythmic components,
which revealed more self-similar dynamics. We thus conclude that the prediction
error response is captured by neuronal populations generating asynchronous
broadband activity, defined by irregular dynamic states, which, unlike
oscillatory rhythms, appear to enable the neural representation of auditory
prediction error response.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT This study aimed to examine the 
contribution of oscillatory and asynchronous components of auditory local field
potentials in the generation of prediction error responses to sensory
irregularities, as this has not been directly addressed in the previous studies. 
Here, we show that mismatch negativity-an auditory prediction error response-is
driven by the asynchronous broadband component of potentials recorded in the
auditory cortex. This finding highlights the importance of nonoscillatory neural 
processes in the predictive monitoring of the environment. At a more general
level, the study demonstrates that stochastic neural processes, which are often
disregarded as neural noise, do have a functional role in the processing of
sensory information.

Copyright © 2021 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0367-21.2021 
PMCID: PMC8580146 [Available on 2022-05-10]
PMID: 34645605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

