

621. Horm Behav. 2018 Nov;106:150-161. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2018.10.009. Epub 2018 Oct
26.

Oxytocin modulates mate-guarding behavior in marmoset monkeys.

Cavanaugh J(1), Mustoe A(2), Womack SL(2), French JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States of
America. Electronic address: jonryancavanaug@unomaha.edu.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States of
America.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States of
America; Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, United States of
America.

In socially-monogamous species, intolerance of interactions between a pairmate
and a sexual rival (i.e., mate-guarding) promotes the preservation of
long-lasting partnerships. One promising neurobiological candidate for the
regulation of mate-guarding behavior in monogamous primates is the oxytocin (OT) 
system, given its established role in both the development of monogamous bonds
and the behavioral processes that facilitate the preservation of those bonds. In 
this study, male and female marmosets were exposed to a same-sex intruder in
their home environment during conditions when their pairmate was present and
absent, and across three treatment conditions (OT receptor agonist; saline
control; OT receptor antagonist). Saline-treated marmosets spent significantly
more time in proximity to the intruder, relative to the empty pairmate enclosure,
when their pairmate was absent. However, when marmosets received OT they spent
less time in proximity to the intruder, indicating that OT may reduce interest in
a same-sex stranger in a territorial context. When their pairmate was present,
saline-treated marmosets spent equal time in proximity to both intruder and
pairmate; yet when they received OT they spent significantly more time in
proximity to the intruder, indicating that OT may increase interest in a same-sex
stranger in a mate-guarding context. While OT treatment did not directly
influence the expression of aggression, OT system manipulations impacted the
expression of selective social interest during an intruder challenge, suggesting 
that OT may enhance adaptive responses to social challenges. Moreover, these
findings add to the converging evidence that the OT system regulates behavioral
processes that underlie the preservation of established relationships.

Copyright Â© 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2018.10.009 
PMCID: PMC6298842
PMID: 30342885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

