

623. Sci Rep. 2018 Oct 18;8(1):15438. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-33758-4.

Tracking EBV-encoded RNAs (EBERs) from the nucleus to the excreted exosomes of
B-lymphocytes.

Ahmed W(1), Tariq S(2), Khan G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United Arab
Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
g_khan@uaeu.ac.ae.

Epstein-Barr virus-encoded RNAs (EBER1 and EBER2) are two highly abundant,
non-protein coding RNAs consistently expressed in all EBV infected cells, but
their function remains poorly understood. Conventional in situ hybridization
studies have indicated that these RNAs are present exclusively in the nucleus. We
have recently demonstrated that EBERs can be excreted from infected cells via
exosomes. However, the details of the steps involved in their excretion remain
unknown. In this study, we aimed to directly track the journey of EBERs from the 
nucleus to the excretory exosomes of EBV immortalized B-lymphocytes. Using a
combination of molecular and novel immuno-gold labelled electron microscopy (EM) 
based techniques, we demonstrate the presence of EBERs, not only in the nucleus, 
but also in the cytoplasm of EBV infected B cell lines. EBERs were also seen in
exosomes shed from infected cells along with the EBER binding protein La. Our
results show, for the first time, that at least a proportion of EBERs are
transported from the nucleus to the cytoplasm where they appear to be loaded into
multi-vesicular bodies for eventual excretion via exosomes.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-33758-4 
PMCID: PMC6193935
PMID: 30337610  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

