

624. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2019 Apr;19(4):249-254. doi: 10.1089/vbz.2018.2348.
Epub 2018 Oct 18.

Antibodies and Molecular Detection of Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum in Samples
of Free-Ranging Marmosets (Primates: Callitrichidae: Callithrix spp.) in an Area 
of Canine Visceral Leishmaniasis in Southeastern Brazil.

Paiz LM(1), Motoie G(2), Richini-Pereira VB(3), Langoni H(4), Menozzi BD(4),
Tolezano JE(2), Donalisio MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University
of Campinas, Campinas, Brazil.
(2)2 Adolfo Lutz Institute, Center for Systemic Parasitic Diseases, São Paulo,
Brazil.
(3)3 Bauru II Center of Regional Laboratories, Adolfo Lutz Institute, Bauru,
Brazil.
(4)4 Department of Veterinary Hygiene and Public Health, School of Veterinary
Medicine and Animal Science, São Paulo State University, Botucatu, Brazil.

Leishmaniasis is a vector-borne parasitic protozoan infection that affects
mammals and involves a complex epidemiology. Although dogs are considered the
main reservoir in zoonotic visceral leishmaniasis (VL), the possible presence of 
other mammalian species acting as reservoirs has been associated as a possible
cause of lack of success in the control of human VL in many endemic areas. The
knowledge about natural infections of some species is still scarce, such as
nonhuman primates (NHP), especially from the genus Callithrix (marmosets). We
investigated the infection by Leishmania (Leishmania) infantum, the agent of VL
in the Americas, in 26 marmosets captured monthly, from April 2014 to March 2015,
in an environmentally protected area (EPA) in Southeastern Brazil. The EPA has
undergone significant environmental changes and has a transmission focus of
canine VL since 2009. Serology was performed through the direct agglutination
test, which detected low antibody titers in seven marmosets (7/26; 26.9%, 95%
confidence interval 9.9-44.0), being five Callithrix penicillata
(black-tufted-ear marmoset) and two Callithrix jacchus (white-tufted-ear
marmoset). The presence of the DNA of Leishmania was investigated in blood and
skin samples by PCR and genetic sequencing. This is the first report of the
detection of L. (L.) infantum in the skin of a marmoset, which was verified in a 
sample from one C. penicillata. The results demonstrate the natural infection of 
marmosets by L. (L.) infantum and may suggest the participation of these animals 
as hosts in the parasite's transmission cycle in the EPA. However, more
comprehensive studies are needed to elucidate their role on the VL epidemiology
in this area and also in different endemic areas, especially because these NHP
are increasingly in contact with humans and domestic animals, particularly due to
environmental changes.

DOI: 10.1089/vbz.2018.2348 
PMID: 30335584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

