

627. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):E10486-E10494. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1807192115. Epub 2018 Oct 15.

Lawful tracking of visual motion in humans, macaques, and marmosets in a
naturalistic, continuous, and untrained behavioral context.

Knöll J(1)(2)(3)(4), Pillow JW(5)(6), Huk AC(7)(2)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(3)Center for Perceptual Systems, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(4)Institute for Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
78712.
(5)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
(6)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544.
(7)Department of Psychology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712;
huk@utexas.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Oct 30;115(44):11112-11114.

Much study of the visual system has focused on how humans and monkeys integrate
moving stimuli over space and time. Such assessments of spatiotemporal
integration provide fundamental grounding for the interpretation of
neurophysiological data, as well as how the resulting neural signals support
perceptual decisions and behavior. However, the insights supported by classical
characterizations of integration performed in humans and rhesus monkeys are
potentially limited with respect to both generality and detail: Standard tasks
require extensive amounts of training, involve abstract stimulus-response
mappings, and depend on combining data across many trials and/or sessions. It is 
thus of concern that the integration observed in classical tasks involves the
recruitment of brain circuits that might not normally subsume natural behaviors, 
and that quantitative analyses have limited power for characterizing single-trial
or single-session processes. Here we bridge these gaps by showing that three
primate species (humans, macaques, and marmosets) track the focus of expansion of
an optic flow field continuously and without substantial training. This
flow-tracking behavior was volitional and reflected substantial temporal
integration. Most strikingly, gaze patterns exhibited lawful and nuanced
dependencies on random perturbations in the stimulus, such that repetitions of
identical flow movies elicited remarkably similar eye movements over long and
continuous time periods. These results demonstrate the generality of
spatiotemporal integration in natural vision, and offer a means for studying
integration outside of artificial tasks while maintaining lawful and highly
reliable behavior.

Copyright © 2018 the Author(s). Published by PNAS.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1807192115 
PMCID: PMC6217422
PMID: 30322919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

