

63. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2022 Jan 1;539:111488. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2021.111488. Epub 
2021 Oct 9.

Limited spermatogenic differentiation of testicular tissue from prepubertal
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) in an in vitro organ culture system.

Sharma S(1), Klaverkamp RS(1), Wistuba J(1), Schlatt S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Albert-Schweitzer Campus 1, Building D11, 48149, Münster,
Germany.
(2)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, Albert-Schweitzer Campus 1, Building D11, 48149, Münster,
Germany. Electronic address: stefan.schlatt@ukmuenster.de.

PURPOSE: of the research: To achieve male fertility preservation and restoration,
experimental strategies for in vitro germ cell differentiation are required. The 
effects of two different culture conditions on in vitro maintenance and
differentiation of non-human primate germ cells was studied. Three testes from
three 6-month-old marmosets were cultured using a gas-liquid interphase system
for 12 days. Testicular maturation in pre-culture control and samples cultured in
gonadotropin and serum supplemented and non-supplemented culture samples was
evaluated using Periodic Acid-Schiff (PAS) and immunohistochemical stainings.
PRINCIPLE RESULTS: Gonadotropins and serum-supplemented tissues demonstrate up to
meiotic differentiation (BOULE + Pachytene spermatocyte) and advanced
localization of germ cells (MAGEA4+). Moreover, complex (with gonadotropin and
marmoset monkey serum) conditions induced progression in somatic cell maturation 
with advanced seminiferous epithelial organization, maintenance of encapsulation 
of cultured fragments with peritubular-myoid cells, preservation of tubular
structural integrity and architecture.
MAJOR CONCLUSIONS: We report stimulation-dependent in vitro meiotic transition in
non-human primate testes. This model represents a novel ex vivo approach to
obtain crucial developmental progression.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2021.111488 
PMID: 34637880 

