

630. Am J Primatol. 2019 Feb;81(2):e22927. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22927. Epub 2018 Oct 12.

Long-term treatment with the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin has minor effect on
clinical laboratory markers in middle-aged marmosets.

Sills AM(1), Artavia JM(1), DeRosa BD(1), Ross CN(1)(2), Salmon AB(1)(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)The Sam and Ann Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, UT Health
San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.
(2)Department of Science and Mathematics, Texas A&M University at San Antonio,
San Antonio, Texas.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, UT Health San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas.
(4)Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, South Texas Veterans
Healthcare System, San Antonio, Texas.

Interventions to extend lifespan and improve health with increasing age would
have significant impact on a growing aged population. There are now several
pharmaceutical interventions that extend lifespan in laboratory rodent models
with rapamycin, an inhibitor of mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) being the 
most well studied. In this study, we report on the hematological effects in a
cohort of middle-aged common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that were enrolled in
a study to test the effects of daily rapamycin treatment on aging in this
species. In addition, we assessed whether sex was a significant factor in either 
baseline assessment or as an interaction with rapamycin treatment. Among our
cohort at baseline, we found few differences in either basic morphology or
hematological markers of blood cell counts, metabolism or inflammation between
male and female marmosets. After dosing with rapamycin, surprisingly we found
trough blood concentrations of rapamycin were significantly lower in female
compared to male marmosets. Despite this pharmacological difference, both sexes
had only minor changes in cellular blood counts after 9 months of rapamycin.
These data then suggest that the potential clinical hematological side effects of
rapamycin are not likely outcomes of long-term rapamycin in relatively healthy,
middle-aged marmosets.

Â© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22927 
PMCID: PMC6415526
PMID: 30311681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

