

631. Eur J Neurosci. 2019 Jan;49(2):179-198. doi: 10.1111/ejn.14204. Epub 2018 Nov 2.

Distributed representation of vocalization pitch in marmoset primary auditory
cortex.

Zhu S(1)(2), Allitt B(1), Samuel A(1), Lui L(1)(2), Rosa MGP(1)(2), Rajan R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of Physiology, Monash
University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Centre of Excellence in Integrative Brain Function, Australian Research
Council, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

The pitch of vocalizations is a key communication feature aiding recognition of
individuals and separating sound sources in complex acoustic environments. The
neural representation of the pitch of periodic sounds is well defined. However,
many natural sounds, like complex vocalizations, contain rich, aperiodic or not
strictly periodic frequency content and/or include high-frequency components, but
still evoke a strong sense of pitch. Indeed, such sounds are the rule, not the
exception but the cortical mechanisms for encoding pitch of such sounds are
unknown. We investigated how neurons in the high-frequency representation of
primary auditory cortex (A1) of marmosets encoded changes in pitch of four
natural vocalizations, two centred around a dominant frequency similar to the
neuron's best sensitivity and two around a much lower dominant frequency. Pitch
was varied over a fine range that can be used by marmosets to differentiate
individuals. The responses of most high-frequency A1 neurons were sensitive to
pitch changes in all four vocalizations, with a smaller proportion of the neurons
showing pitch-insensitive responses. Classically defined excitatory drive, from
the neuron's monaural frequency response area, predicted responses to changes in 
vocalization pitch in <30% of neurons suggesting most pitch tuning observed is
not simple frequency-level response. Moreover, 39% of A1 neurons showed
call-invariant tuning of pitch. These results suggest that distributed activity
across A1 can represent the pitch of natural sounds over a fine, functionally
relevant range, and exhibits pitch tuning for vocalizations within and outside
the classical neural tuning area.

Â© 2018 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.14204 
PMID: 30307660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

