

633. Am J Primatol. 2018 Nov;80(11):e22926. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22926. Epub 2018 Oct 10.

Defining predictive factors for reproductive output in captive common marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

Bakker J(1), Louwerse AL(1), Remarque EJ(2), Langermans JAM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Animal Science Department, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Virology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre, Rijswijk, The
Netherlands.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) demonstrate variations in reproductive
output, not only in terms of total reproductive output during a lifetime but also
in litter size per parturition. The present study explores factors, such as
parents' litter size, parturition number, maternal body weight at conception and 
maternal age, which may account for this variation. A retrospective analysis of
clinical records of a captive breeding colony was conducted over a 9-year period 
yielding reproductive summaries of 26 dams and 22 sires producing a total of 115 
litters. Dams born from litters of  ≤2 (N = 20) more often produced litters of
≤2, whereas dams born from litters of >2 (N = 6) more often produced litters of
>2 (p < 0.05). The dams' maternal body weight at the time of conception had also 
a significant effect on subsequent litter size. In addition, the chance of
triplets was higher after the second parturition. Maternal age, interbirth
interval, and season of birth had no effect on litter size. Factors relating to
the sire had a negligible effect on the size of the litter. Multivariate
statistical modeling revealed that the dams' original litter size, maternal
bodyweight at conception and parturition number are determining factors for the
number of babies per litter. This study identified factors determining marmoset
litter size, some of which (maternal litter size) are novel to this study and
were not reported previously. Further exploration of the potential role of
maternal litter size as a determinant of the litter sizes produced by marmoset
breeders is warranted.

© 2018 The Authors. American Journal of Primatology Published by Wiley
Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22926 
PMCID: PMC6220776
PMID: 30302782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

