

635. Behav Neurosci. 2018 Dec;132(6):526-535. doi: 10.1037/bne0000273. Epub 2018 Oct
8.

Blockade of dopamine D₁ receptors, but not D₂ receptors, decreases motivation in 
a novel effort-discounting paradigm in common marmosets.

Enomoto T(1), Konoike N(2), Takemoto A(2), Nakamura K(2), Ikeda K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd.
(2)Cognitive Neuroscience Section.

Effort-based decision-making paradigms have recently been used to measure
motivation in healthy subjects and patients with neuropsychiatric disorders. In
the present study, we developed a novel effort-discounting paradigm using a
touch-panel system in common marmosets. Marmosets were trained to choose between 
a low-reward (a piece of cake) requiring low-effort (one touch response) versus
high-reward (three pieces of cake) requiring one of three different effort levels
(one, two, or four touch responses). Because the number of trials per session was
kept constant, the selection of the high-reward choice was always the optimal
strategy to receive the maximum number of rewards. Marmosets' high-reward rates
were reduced as the physical effort requirement was increased, when they were
tested using effort discounting in either ascending or descending order of effort
intensity. It indicates that marmosets' decisions could be attributable to
cost-benefit evaluation, but not to their fatigue or satisfaction with the reward
during the progression of the paradigm. The high dose of dopamine D₁ receptor
antagonist SCH-39166 (0.03 mg/kg) reduced the high-reward choice rate, only when 
more effort was required to obtain the high-reward than the low-reward. On the
other hand, the D₂ receptor antagonist raclopride (0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg)
unexpectedly did not affect the high-reward choice rate, but the high dose did
increase omission rate. Our finding suggests that dopamine D₁ receptor signaling 
may play a more important role in effort-based decision making than D₂ receptor
signaling in marmosets. Our novel behavioral paradigm would be useful in
translational research focused on motivational deficits. (PsycINFO Database
Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/bne0000273 
PMID: 30299146  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

