

641. Folia Primatol (Basel). 2018;89(6):357-364. doi: 10.1159/000490793. Epub 2018 Oct
2.

Stay Gathered Rather than Scattered: Strategies of Common Marmosets during
Agonistic Interactions with Birds in the Atlantic Rain Forest.

Borges SCA(1), Oliveira FGS(1), Guerra R(2), Gunhold-de Oliveira T(3),
Pesendorfer MB(3)(4), Bezerra BM(2), Souto AS(2), Schiel N(5).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazil.
(2)Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(3)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(4)Cornell Lab of Ornithology, Ithaca, New York, USA.
(5)Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Recife,
Brazilnschiel@yahoo.com.

To reduce the vulnerability of their small body size, common marmosets live in
large and cohesive social groups. Thus, we hypothesized that in order to
compensate for small body size and predation risk, individuals of common
marmosets will stay gathered rather than scattered when foraging for eggs and/or 
nestling birds. Furthermore, in order to avoid costly injuries and eventual
predation risks, for both sides, the majority of interactions among common
marmosets and small birds will not involve direct physical contact. The study was
developed in a small fragment of Atlantic Forest in the northeast of Brazil. We
recorded a total of 115 interactions between common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus) with 7 different bird species. As expected, agonistic interactions were 
significantly more frequent when the marmosets were gathered. Also, most
agonistic interactions by the birds toward common marmosets involved overflights 
without physical contact. Apparently, the set of avoidance behavior leads to a
reduced predation risk for both sides. It appears that dispersed marmosets do not
represent an imminent threat that justifies an agonistic reaction by the birds as
the latter appear to avoid exposing themselves to unnecessary danger during
agonistic interactions, especially when the marmosets are gathered.

Â© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000490793 
PMID: 30278454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

