

647. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2018 Aug 29;9:467. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00467.
eCollection 2018.

Differentiation of Testis Xenografts in the Prepubertal Marmoset Depends on the
Sex and Status of the Mouse Host.

Sharma S(1), Sandhowe-Klaverkamp R(1), Schlatt S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology, Institute of Reproductive and
Regenerative Biology, MÃ¼nster, Germany.

This study investigates the effects of the endocrine milieu of immunodeficient
mouse host (intact vs. castrated male, intact male vs. intact female) on
prepubertal marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) testicular xenografts. Previous
marmoset xenografting studies used castrated nude mouse hosts which did not
support efficient graft survival and maturation. Due to the distinct endocrine
milieu in marmosets with a deletion of exon 10 in the LH receptor, we wanted to
explore whether the most efficient xenograft development occurs in intact male
mouse hosts compared to intact females or castrated males. We xenografted freshly
isolated tissue from prepubertal marmosets (age range 4-6 months) into the back
skin of three groups of nude mice (intact male, castrated male, and intact
female). We collected serum for endocrine determinations and grafts after 20
weeks and determined hormonal/reproductive status, graft survival, somatic cell
development and initiation of germ cell differentiation. Graft development,
tubular integrity, and germ cell differentiation status in the grafts retrieved
from different hosts was scored by morphometric analysis. The influence of the
different endocrine status was compared between groups of hosts. Endocrine
readouts and histological endpoints in xenografts substantiate that grafts were
exposed to different microenvironments and responded with host specific
developmental patterns. The intact male hosts supported the most significant
progression of germ cell development. Our data provide evidence for the important
role of the host milieu on survival and differentiation of marmoset xenografts.
The xenografting model offers innovative avenues to exploit development and
endocrine effects in the primate marmoset testis using limited numbers of
non-human primates for the experimental settings.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00467 
PMCID: PMC6123353
PMID: 30210448 

