

651. PLoS Pathog. 2018 Aug 30;14(8):e1007223. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007223.
eCollection 2018 Aug.

Storage lipid studies in tuberculosis reveal that foam cell biogenesis is
disease-specific.

Guerrini V(1), Prideaux B(1), Blanc L(1), Bruiners N(1), Arrigucci R(1), Singh
S(2), Ho-Liang HP(1), Salamon H(3), Chen PY(1), Lakehal K(1), Subbian S(1),
O'Brien P(1), Via LE(4), Barry CE 3rd(4), Dartois V(1), Gennaro ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Public Health Research Institute, New Jersey Medical School, Rutgers, The
State University of New Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States of America.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, New Jersey Medical School,
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Newark, NJ, United States of
America.
(3)Knowledge Synthesis, Berkeley, CA, United States of America.
(4)Tuberculosis Research Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States of America.

Foam cells are lipid-laden macrophages that contribute to the inflammation and
tissue damage associated with many chronic inflammatory disorders. Although foam 
cell biogenesis has been extensively studied in atherosclerosis, how these cells 
form during a chronic infectious disease such as tuberculosis is unknown. Here we
report that, unlike the cholesterol-laden cells of atherosclerosis, foam cells in
tuberculous lung lesions accumulate triglycerides. Consequently, the biogenesis
of foam cells varies with the underlying disease. In vitro mechanistic studies
showed that triglyceride accumulation in human macrophages infected with
Mycobacterium tuberculosis is mediated by TNF receptor signaling through
downstream activation of the caspase cascade and the mammalian target of
rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). These features are distinct from the known
biogenesis of atherogenic foam cells and establish a new paradigm for
non-atherogenic foam cell formation. Moreover, they reveal novel targets for
disease-specific pharmacological interventions against maladaptive macrophage
responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1007223 
PMCID: PMC6117085
PMID: 30161232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: Hugh Salamon is
affiliated to the commercial company Knowledge Synthesis Inc.

