

66. IBRO Neurosci Rep. 2021 Sep 22;11:128-136. doi: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2021.09.003.
eCollection 2021 Dec.

Roving oddball paradigm elicits sensory gating, frequency sensitivity, and
long-latency response in common marmosets.

O'Reilly JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biomedical Engineering, Rangsit University, 52/347 Muang-Ake,
Phaholyothin Road, Pathumthani 12000, Thailand.

Mismatch negativity (MMN) is a candidate biomarker for neuropsychiatric disease. 
Understanding the extent to which it reflects cognitive deviance-detection or
purely sensory processes will assist practitioners in making informed clinical
interpretations. This study compares the utility of deviance-detection and
sensory-processing theories for describing MMN-like auditory responses of a
common marmoset monkey during roving oddball stimulation. The following
exploratory analyses were performed on an existing dataset: responses during the 
transition and repetition sequence of the roving oddball paradigm (standard ->
deviant/S1 -> S2 -> S3) were compared; long-latency potentials evoked by deviant 
stimuli were examined using a double-epoch waveform subtraction; effects of
increasing stimulus repetitions on standard and deviant responses were analyzed; 
and transitions between standard and deviant stimuli were divided into ascending 
and descending frequency changes to explore contributions of
frequency-sensitivity. An enlarged auditory response to deviant stimuli was
observed. This decreased exponentially with stimulus repetition, characteristic
of sensory gating. A slow positive deflection was viewed over approximately
300-800 ms after the deviant stimulus, which is more difficult to ascribe to
afferent sensory mechanisms. When split into ascending and descending frequency
transitions, the resulting difference waveforms were disproportionally influenced
by descending frequency deviant stimuli. This asymmetry is inconsistent with the 
general deviance-detection theory of MMN. These findings tentatively suggest that
MMN-like responses from common marmosets are predominantly influenced by rapid
sensory adaptation and frequency preference of the auditory cortex, while
deviance-detection may play a role in long-latency activity.

© 2021 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibneur.2021.09.003 
PMCID: PMC8482433
PMID: 34622244 

