

668. Eur J Neurosci. 2018 Aug;48(4):2013-2029. doi: 10.1111/ejn.14071. Epub 2018 Aug
7.

Auditory motion does not modulate spiking activity in the middle temporal and
medial superior temporal visual areas.

Chaplin TA(1)(2), Allitt BJ(1), Hagan MA(1)(2), Rosa MGP(1)(2), Rajan R(1)(2),
Lui LL(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of
Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University
Node, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

The integration of multiple sensory modalities is a key aspect of brain function,
allowing animals to take advantage of concurrent sources of information to make
more accurate perceptual judgments. For many years, multisensory integration in
the cerebral cortex was deemed to occur only in high-level "polysensory"
association areas. However, more recent studies have suggested that cross-modal
stimulation can also influence neural activity in areas traditionally considered 
to be unimodal. In particular, several human neuroimaging studies have reported
that extrastriate areas involved in visual motion perception are also activated
by auditory motion, and may integrate audiovisual motion cues. However, the exact
nature and extent of the effects of auditory motion on the visual cortex have not
been studied at the single neuron level. We recorded the spiking activity of
neurons in the middle temporal (MT) and medial superior temporal (MST) areas of
anesthetized marmoset monkeys upon presentation of unimodal stimuli (moving
auditory or visual patterns), as well as bimodal stimuli (concurrent audiovisual 
motion). Despite robust, direction selective responses to visual motion, none of 
the sampled neurons responded to auditory motion stimuli. Moreover, concurrent
moving auditory stimuli had no significant effect on the ability of single MT and
MST neurons, or populations of simultaneously recorded neurons, to discriminate
the direction of motion of visual stimuli (moving random dot patterns with
varying levels of motion noise). Our findings do not support the hypothesis that 
direct interactions between MT, MST and areas low in the hierarchy of auditory
areas underlie audiovisual motion integration.

Â© 2018 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejn.14071 
PMID: 30019438  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

