

669. Comp Med. 2018 Aug 1;68(4):314-318. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-17-000128. Epub 2018
Jul 16.

Lung Lobe Torsion in an Adult Male Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Winn CB(1), Artim SC(1), Jamiel MS(1), Burns MA(1), Haupt JL(1), Fox JG(1),
Muthupalani S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. smuthu01@mit.edu.

A 6-y-old, intact, pair-housed male common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus)
presented with acute onset dyspnea and tachypnea immediately after sedation with 
alfaxalone; a history of gradual weight loss initiated the examination under
sedation. Thoracic radiographs revealed significant right-lung consolidation,
with a vesicular gas pattern in the right caudodorsal lung field, pleural
effusion, and dorsal displacement of the heart. The marmoset was euthanized due
to his unstable condition and poor prognosis. At necropsy, the cranial and middle
lobes of the right lung were homogenously dark red-brown, enlarged, edematous,
and twisted around the longitudinal axis at the hilus. The left lung lobes were
pale pink and slightly edematous. In light of the clinical and gross necropsy
findings, acute torsion of the right cranial and middle lung lobes was diagnosed.
Predisposing conditions for lung lobe torsion include trauma, neoplasia,
pulmonary disease, previous thoracic surgery, and diaphragmatic hernia, but none 
of these applied to this case. Initial therapy for lung lobe torsion is to
stabilize the patient and treat for underlying conditions, with prompt surgical
resection as the treatment of choice. To our knowledge, this report is the first 
description of lung lobe torsion in an experimentally unmanipulated New World
NHP.

DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-17-000128 
PMCID: PMC6103417
PMID: 30012239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

