

671. J Virol. 2018 Sep 12;92(19). pii: e00359-18. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00359-18. Print
2018 Oct 1.

Cell-Derived Viral Genes Evolve under Stronger Purifying Selection in
Rhadinoviruses.

Aswad A(1), Katzourakis A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Zoology Department, University of Oxford, Oxford, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Zoology Department, University of Oxford, Oxford, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom 
aris.katzourakis@zoo.ox.ac.uk.

Like many other large double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) viruses, herpesviruses are
known to capture host genes to evade host defenses. Little is known about the
detailed natural history of such genes, nor do we fully understand their
evolutionary dynamics. A major obstacle is that they are often highly divergent, 
maintaining very low sequence similarity to host homologs. Here we use the
herpesvirus genus Rhadinovirus as a model system to develop an analytical
approach that combines complementary evolutionary and bioinformatic techniques,
offering results that are both detailed and robust for a range of genes. Using a 
systematic phylogenetic strategy, we identify the original host lineage of viral 
genes with high confidence. We show that although host immunomodulatory genes
evolve rapidly compared to other host genes, they undergo a clear increase in
purifying selection once captured by a virus. To characterize this shift in
detail, we developed a novel technique to identify changes in selection pressure 
that can be attributable to particular domains. These findings will inform us on 
how viruses develop strategies to evade the immune system, and our synthesis of
techniques can be reapplied to other viruses or biological systems with similar
analytical challenges.IMPORTANCE Viruses and hosts have been shown to capture
genes from one another as part of the evolutionary arms race. Such genes offer a 
natural experiment on the effects of evolutionary pressure, since the same gene
exists in vastly different selective environments. However, sequences of viral
homologs often bear little similarity to the original sequence, complicating the 
reconstruction of their shared evolutionary history with host counterparts. In
this study, we use a genus of herpesviruses as a model system to comprehensively 
investigate the evolution of host-derived viral genes, using a synthesis of
genomics, phylogenetics, selection analysis, and nucleotide and amino acid
modeling.

Copyright Â© 2018 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00359-18 
PMCID: PMC6146799
PMID: 29997213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

