

673. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2018 Sep 1;1093-1094:1-7. doi:
10.1016/j.jchromb.2018.06.036. Epub 2018 Jun 19.

Development of a selective and sensitive high-performance liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry assay to support pharmacokinetic studies 
of LY-487,379 in rat and marmoset.

Gaudette F(1), Hamadjida A(1), Bédard D(1), Nuara SG(2), Gourdon JC(2), Michaud
V(3), Beaudry F(4), Huot P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(CRCHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resources Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada.
(3)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(CRCHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Faculté de Pharmacie, Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Florida, Lake Nona Campus, Orlando, FL, USA.
(4)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(CRCHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Groupe de Recherche en Pharmacologie Animal
du Québec, Département de Biomédecine Vétérinaire, Faculté de Médecine
Vétérinaire Université de Montréal, Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec, Canada.
(5)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(CRCHUM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie et de
Physiologie, Faculté de Médicine, Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec,
Canada; Unité des Troubles du Mouvement André Barbeau, Centre Hospitalier de
l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Division of Neurology, Centre
Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Electronic
address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Drugs modulating the metabotropic glutamate type 2 receptor (mGluR2) activity may
have therapeutic benefits in treating a large spectrum of neuro-psychiatric
disorders, from schizophrenia to Parkinson's disease, both as a symptomatic
therapy and potential disease-modifying paradigm. LY-487,379 is a highly
selective mGluR2 positive allosteric modulator that is widely used to study
mGluR2 function using experimental animal models. The common marmoset is a small 
primate that has long been used in neuroscience. However, given its small size
and small circulating blood volume, conducting studies to determine the PK
profile of LY-487,379 is challenging. We developed and validated a sensitive and 
selective analytical method that enables quantification of LY-487,379 using a
limited volume of plasma (10 μL). The analytical method consists of protein
precipitation followed by high-performance liquid chromatography with heat
assisted electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (HPLC-HESI-MS/MS). The
chromatographic separation was achieved using gradient elution with a mobile
phase consisting of acetonitrile and 0.01% formic acid in water on a Thermo
Scientific Aquasil C18 analytical column (100 × 2.1 mm I.D., 5 μm) operating at
40 °C and at a flow rate of 300 μL/min. The method displays a linear relationship
ranging from 0.2 to 100 ng/mL. Intra- and inter-day relative standard deviations 
are <1.4% and 7.9%, respectively and the relative error ranged from -6.9 to 9.7%.
The method was used to quantify LY-487,379 in both rat and marmoset plasma, and
PK parameters were determined after a single subcutaneous dose of 1.0 mg kg-1 in 
both species and significant differences in Cmax, AUC and T1/2 were observed.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2018.06.036 
PMID: 29980099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

