

679. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 18;13(6):e0199200. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199200.
eCollection 2018.

Characterisation of the hepatitis B virus cross-species transmission pattern via 
Na+/taurocholate co-transporting polypeptides from 11 New World and Old World
primate species.

Müller SF(1), König A(2), Döring B(1), Glebe D(2), Geyer J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Biomedical Research Center
Seltersberg, Justus Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Medical Virology, Biomedical Research Center Seltersberg, Justus 
Liebig University Giessen, Giessen, Germany.

The hepatic Na+/taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP in man, Ntcp in
animals) is the high-affinity receptor for the hepatitis B (HBV) and hepatitis D 
(HDV) viruses. Species barriers for human HBV/HDV within the order Primates were 
previously attributed to Ntcp sequence variations that disable virus-receptor
interaction. However, only a limited number of primate Ntcps have been analysed
so far. In the present study, a total of 11 Ntcps from apes, Old and New World
monkeys were cloned and expressed in vitro to characterise their interaction with
HBV and HDV. All Ntcps showed intact bile salt transport. Human NTCP as well as
the Ntcps from the great apes chimpanzee and orangutan showed transport-competing
binding of HBV derived myr-preS1-peptides. In contrast, all six Ntcps from the
group of Old World monkeys were insensitive to HBV myr-preS1-peptide binding and 
HBV/HDV infection. This is basically predetermined by the amino acid arginine at 
position 158 of all studied Old World monkey Ntcps. An exchange from arginine to 
glycine (as present in humans and great apes) at this position (R158G) alone was 
sufficient to achieve full transport-competing HBV myr-preS1-peptide binding and 
susceptibility for HBV/HDV infection. New World monkey Ntcps showed higher
sequence heterogeneity, but in two cases with 158G showed transport-competing HBV
myr-preS1-peptide binding, and in one case (Saimiri sciureus) even susceptibility
for HBV/HDV infection. In conclusion, amino acid position 158 of NTCP/Ntcp is
sufficient to discriminate between the HBV/HDV susceptible group of humans and
great apes (158G) and the non-susceptible group of Old World monkeys (158R). In
the case of the phylogenetically more distant New World monkey Ntcps amino acid
158 plays a significant, but not exclusive role.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199200 
PMCID: PMC6005513
PMID: 29912972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

