

681. Nat Commun. 2018 Jun 11;9(1):2281. doi: 10.1038/s41467-018-04500-5.

Top-down feedback controls spatial summation and response amplitude in primate
visual cortex.

Nurminen L(1), Merlin S(1)(2), Bijanzadeh M(1)(3), Federer F(1), Angelucci A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Moran Eye Institute,
University of Utah, 65 Mario Capecchi Drive, Salt Lake City, UT, 84132, USA.
(2)Medical Science, School of Science and Health, Western Sydney University,
Campbelltown, NSW, 2560, Australia.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, UCSF, San Francisco, CA, 94143, USA.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Moran Eye Institute,
University of Utah, 65 Mario Capecchi Drive, Salt Lake City, UT, 84132, USA.
alessandra.angelucci@hsc.utah.edu.

Sensory information travels along feedforward connections through a hierarchy of 
cortical areas, which, in turn, send feedback connections to lower-order areas.
Feedback has been implicated in attention, expectation, and sensory context, but 
the mechanisms underlying these diverse feedback functions are unknown. Using
specific optogenetic inactivation of feedback connections from the secondary
visual area (V2), we show how feedback affects neural responses in the primate
primary visual cortex (V1). Reducing feedback activity increases V1 cells'
receptive field (RF) size, decreases their responses to stimuli confined to the
RF, and increases their responses to stimuli extending into the proximal
surround, therefore reducing surround suppression. Moreover, stronger reduction
of V2 feedback activity leads to progressive increase in RF size and decrease in 
response amplitude, an effect predicted by a recurrent network model. Our results
indicate that feedback modulates RF size, surround suppression and response
amplitude, similar to the modulatory effects of visual spatial attention.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-04500-5 
PMCID: PMC5995810
PMID: 29892057  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

