

683. Anat Histol Embryol. 2018 Aug;47(4):372-384. doi: 10.1111/ahe.12365. Epub 2018
Jun 3.

Morphological description of male genital organs of Marca's marmoset (Mico
marcai).

de Siqueira GHL(1), Silva FE(2)(3), Santana MIS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wild Animal Anatomy Laboratory, School of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary
Medicine, University of Brasília, Brasília, DF, Brazil.
(2)School of Environment & Life Sciences, University of Salford, Salford, UK.
(3)Institute for Sustainable Development Mamirauá, Tefé, AM, Brazil.

Morphological characterisation of the genital organs of primates may bring
significant contributions to the understanding of different reproductive
behaviours and support new conservation strategies. However, relevant or detailed
descriptions of genital morphology of several primate species are still lacking. 
This study describes the gross and microscopic anatomy of the internal and
external genitalia of Marca's marmoset (Mico marcai). The same organs described
in other primate species were identified here, but some anatomical
particularities were detected, such as absence of a dartos tunic, presence of a
vas deferens ampulla, absence of spongious erectile tissue in the pelvic urethra,
separation of prostate gland lobes by a longitudinal sulcus and lack of septation
in the corpus cavernosus and spongiosus at the level of the shaft and free
portion of the penis. Keratinised type 1 spicules arising from epidermal or
dermal projections were found in the free portion of the penis. Microscopic
analysis revealed a small bone (baculum) consisting of peripheral compact bone
and a central, non-ossified area filled with vascular tissue at the distal end of
this portion of the penis. Results of this study may support further comparative 
studies of primates' reproductive ecology.

© 2018 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/ahe.12365 
PMID: 29862549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

