

691. eNeuro. 2018 May 7;5(2). pii: ENEURO.0078-18.2018. doi:
10.1523/ENEURO.0078-18.2018. eCollection 2018 Mar-Apr.

Sound Frequency Representation in the Auditory Cortex of the Common Marmoset
Visualized Using Optical Intrinsic Signal Imaging.

Tani T(1)(2), Abe H(1)(2), Hayami T(2)(3), Banno T(2)(4), Miyakawa N(2)(5),
Kitamura N(1), Mashiko H(1), Ichinohe N(2)(1), Suzuki W(2)(1).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher
Brain Functions, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(3)Department of Biotechnology and Life Science, Graduate School of Engineering, 
Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Koganei, Tokyo 184-8588, Japan.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
PA 19104.
(5)Department of Functional Brain Imaging Research, National Institutes of
Quantum and Radiological Science and Technology, Chiba, Chiba 263-8555, Japan.

Natural sound is composed of various frequencies. Although the core region of the
primate auditory cortex has functionally defined sound frequency preference maps,
how the map is organized in the auditory areas of the belt and parabelt regions
is not well known. In this study, we investigated the functional organizations of
the core, belt, and parabelt regions encompassed by the lateral sulcus and the
superior temporal sulcus in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Using
optical intrinsic signal imaging, we obtained evoked responses to band-pass noise
stimuli in a range of sound frequencies (0.5-16 kHz) in anesthetized adult
animals and visualized the preferred sound frequency map on the cortical surface.
We characterized the functionally defined organization using histologically
defined brain areas in the same animals. We found tonotopic representation of a
set of sound frequencies (low to high) within the primary (A1), rostral (R), and 
rostrotemporal (RT) areas of the core region. In the belt region, the tonotopic
representation existed only in the mediolateral (ML) area. This representation
was symmetric with that found in A1 along the border between areas A1 and ML. The
functional structure was not very clear in the anterolateral (AL) area. Low
frequencies were mainly preferred in the rostrotemplatal (RTL) area, while high
frequencies were preferred in the caudolateral (CL) area. There was a portion of 
the parabelt region that strongly responded to higher sound frequencies (>5.8
kHz) along the border between the rostral parabelt (RPB) and caudal parabelt
(CPB) regions.

DOI: 10.1523/ENEURO.0078-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC5937112
PMID: 29736410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

