

692. Physiol Behav. 2018 Sep 1;193(Pt A):108-116. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2018.02.050. 
Epub 2018 May 2.

Why help? Relationship quality, not strategic grooming predicts infant-care in
group-living marmosets.

Finkenwirth C(1), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: christa.finkenwirth@uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Cooperatively breeding common marmosets raise their infants with the help of
other adult group members, but individual care-taking contribution can vary
considerably. We tested four hypotheses that may explain this variation within
marmoset family groups. The pay-for-help hypothesis argues that allogrooming is
used strategically by parents to pay helpers for helping. The
pay-for-infant-access hypothesis claims that helpers use allogrooming as payment 
for infant-access. The intrinsic predisposition hypothesis suggests that more
affiliative individuals are also more motivated for infant-care, and the
relationship quality hypothesis that individuals involved in highly affiliative
relationships with main caregivers contribute more to infant-care. To test these 
hypotheses, we followed five marmoset family groups over a total of eight
reproductive cycles, and quantified affiliative behavior, infant-carrying, and
food sharing over six to 12 weeks around infant-birth. We found no evidence for
either the pay-for-help or pay-for-infant-access hypotheses nor did intrinsic
prosocial predisposition determine individual infant-care. Mutual dyadic
affiliation, however, was positively linked to infant-carrying and food sharing
in female and male breeders and in male helpers. This suggests that cooperation
during infant-care is mediated by relationship quality rather than strategic
grooming in marmosets. Overall, these results may also contribute to a better
understanding of cooperation in humans.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2018.02.050 
PMID: 29730031  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

