

698. Sci Adv. 2018 Apr 11;4(4):eaar4012. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.aar4012. eCollection 2018
Apr.

Limiting parental interaction during vocal development affects acoustic call
structure in marmoset monkeys.

Gultekin YB(1), Hage SR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of TÃ¼bingen, Germany.

Human vocal development is dependent on learning by imitation through social
feedback between infants and caregivers. Recent studies have revealed that vocal 
development is also influenced by parental feedback in marmoset monkeys,
suggesting vocal learning mechanisms in nonhuman primates. Marmoset infants that 
experience more contingent vocal feedback than their littermates develop
vocalizations more rapidly, and infant marmosets with limited parental
interaction exhibit immature vocal behavior beyond infancy. However, it is yet
unclear whether direct parental interaction is an obligate requirement for proper
vocal development because all monkeys in the aforementioned studies were able to 
produce the adult call repertoire after infancy. Using quantitative measures to
compare distinct call parameters and vocal sequence structure, we show that
social interaction has a direct impact not only on the maturation of the vocal
behavior but also on acoustic call structures during vocal development. Monkeys
with limited parental interaction during development show systematic differences 
in call entropy, a measure for maturity, compared with their normally raised
siblings. In addition, different call types were occasionally uttered in
motif-like sequences similar to those exhibited by vocal learners, such as birds 
and humans, in early vocal development. These results indicate that a lack of
parental interaction leads to long-term disturbances in the acoustic structure of
marmoset vocalizations, suggesting an imperative role for social interaction in
proper primate vocal development.

DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aar4012 
PMCID: PMC5895450
PMID: 29651461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

