

700. Biochem Pharmacol. 2018 Jun;152:272-278. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2018.04.002. Epub
2018 Apr 5.

In vivo and in vitro diclofenac 5-hydroxylation mediated primarily by cytochrome 
P450 3A enzymes in common marmoset livers genotyped for P450 2C19 variants.

Nakanishi K(1), Uehara S(1), Kusama T(1), Inoue T(2), Shimura K(1), Kamiya Y(1), 
Murayama N(1), Shimizu M(1), Uno Y(3), Sasaki E(4), Yamazaki H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(2)Department of Marmoset Research, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan.
(3)Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, Japan.
(4)Department of Marmoset Research, Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic
address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are potentially useful nonhuman primate
models for preclinical studies. An anti-inflammatory drug, diclofenac is
reportedly metabolized mainly by human cytochrome P450 (P450) 2C9 to
4'-hydroxydiclofenac and minorly by P450 3A4 to 5-hydroxydiclofenac that leads to
reactive intermediates. In this study, in vivo pharmacokinetics in six marmosets 
and in vitro metabolism in nine marmoset liver microsomes were analyzed using
diclofenac to evaluate marmosets as preclinical drug metabolism models. In
wild-type marmosets genotyped for P450 2C19 p.[(Phe7Leu; Ser254Leu; Ile469Thr)], 
plasma levels of 5-hydroxydiclofenac and 4'-hydroxydiclofenac were roughly
similar, but the homozygotes showed approximately three-times higher plasma
levels of 5-hydroxydiclofenac than those of 4'-hydroxydiclofenac after oral
administrations of diclofenac (50 mg/kg). Nine marmoset liver microsomes
catalyzed mainly diclofenac 5-hydroxylation with no significant effects of the
the P450 2C19 genotype, and partly diclofenac 4'-hydroxylation that depended on
the P450 2C19 genotype, at substrate concentrations of 10 µM and 100 µM. Both
Michaels-Menten constant Km values for diclofenac 4'-hydroxylation in human and
marmoset liver microsomes were ∼30 μM and those for diclofenac 5-hydroxylation
were ∼120 μM. Ketoconazole significantly suppressed only diclofenac
5-hydroxylation in marmoset or human liver microsomes at 0.030 μM, indicating
main contribution of P450 3A enzymes, which were found to be P450 3A5/90 using
recombinant marmoset P450 3A enzymes. These results suggest that marmosets would 
be a functional animal model for in vivo and in vitro metabolites likely
generated via arene oxide intermediates of diclofenac by P450 3A enzymes in
humans, primarily because marmosets lack the ortholog of human P450 2C9.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2018.04.002 
PMID: 29626440  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

