

703. Front Behav Neurosci. 2018 Mar 16;12:46. doi: 10.3389/fnbeh.2018.00046.
eCollection 2018.

A Method to Train Marmosets in Visual Working Memory Task and Their Performance.

Nakamura K(1), Koba R(1), Miwa M(1), Yamaguchi C(1), Suzuki H(1), Takemoto A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 
Inuyama, Japan.

Learning and memory processes are similarly organized in humans and monkeys;
therefore, monkeys can be ideal models for analyzing human aging processes and
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. With the development of
novel gene modification methods, common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have been 
suggested as an animal model for neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, the
common marmoset's lifespan is relatively short, which makes it a practical animal
model for aging. Working memory deficits are a prominent symptom of both dementia
and aging, but no data are currently available for visual working memory in
common marmosets. The delayed matching-to-sample task is a powerful tool for
evaluating visual working memory in humans and monkeys; therefore, we developed a
novel procedure for training common marmosets in such a task. Using visual
discrimination and reversal tasks to direct the marmosets' attention to the
physical properties of visual stimuli, we successfully trained 11 out of 13
marmosets in the initial stage of the delayed matching-to-sample task and
provided the first available data on visual working memory in common marmosets.
We found that the marmosets required many trials to initially learn the task
(median: 1316 trials), but once the task was learned, the animals needed fewer
trials to learn the task with novel stimuli (476 trials or fewer, with the
exception of one marmoset). The marmosets could retain visual information for up 
to 16 s. Our novel training procedure could enable us to use the common marmoset 
as a useful non-human primate model for studying visual working memory deficits
in neurodegenerative diseases and aging.

DOI: 10.3389/fnbeh.2018.00046 
PMCID: PMC5864906
PMID: 29615876 

