

705. Physiol Genomics. 2018 Jun 1;50(6):425-439. doi:
10.1152/physiolgenomics.00030.2018. Epub 2018 Mar 30.

Similarity and variation in the insulin-like growth factor 2 - H19 locus in
primates.

Rotwein P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas
Tech Health University Health Sciences Center , El Paso, Texas.

Insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), a small, secreted protein, is critical for
fetal and prenatal growth in humans and other mammals. The IGF2 gene and its
mouse homolog comprise part of a conserved linkage group that is regulated by
parental imprinting, with IGF2/ Igf2 being expressed from the paternal
chromosome, and the adjacent H19 gene from the maternal chromosome. By using
information extracted from public genomic and gene expression databases, I have
now analyzed this locus in nine nonhuman primate species representing over 60
million years of evolutionary divergence from a common progenitor. Both IGF2 and 
H19 genes and the entire locus have been conserved among these primates. Each
primate IGF2 gene except for gibbon and marmoset is composed of 10 exons and
contains five potential promoters, each with distinctive 5'-untranslated exons.
Similarly, except for marmoset and mouse lemur, H19 consists of six exons and has
two promoters. DNA sequence conservation is high, not only in orthologous exons
and promoters, but also in a putative imprinting control region located 5' to H19
and in multiple potential distal enhancer elements found 3' to H19. Collectively,
these results support the hypothesis that common regulatory processes shaped the 
IGF2 - H19 locus before the onset of primate speciation more than 85 million
years ago. This study also leads to the conclusion that inaccuracies in data
presentation in genetic repositories could limit our ability to develop novel
insights about roles of individual genes and multigene loci in mammalian
physiology and disease.

DOI: 10.1152/physiolgenomics.00030.2018 
PMCID: PMC6032289
PMID: 29602297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

