

713. J Neurosci. 2018 Apr 18;38(16):3955-3970. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0188-18.2018.
Epub 2018 Mar 19.

Robust Visual Responses and Normal Retinotopy in Primate Lateral Geniculate
Nucleus following Long-term Lesions of Striate Cortex.

Yu HH(1)(2), Atapour N(3)(2), Chaplin TA(3)(2), Worthy KH(3)(2), Rosa MGP(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biomedicine Research Institute, Monash
University, Clayton, 3800 Victoria, Australia and hsin-hao.yu@monash.edu.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Monash University Node, Clayton, 3800 Victoria, Australia.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biomedicine Research Institute, Monash
University, Clayton, 3800 Victoria, Australia and.

Lesions of striate cortex (V1) trigger massive retrograde degeneration of neurons
in the LGN. In primates, these lesions also lead to scotomas, within which
conscious vision is abolished. Mediation of residual visual capacity within these
regions (blindsight) has been traditionally attributed to an indirect visual
pathway to the extrastriate cortex, which involves the superior colliculus and
pulvinar complex. However, recent studies have suggested that preservation of the
LGN is critical for behavioral evidence of blindsight, raising the question of
what type of visual information is channeled by remaining neurons in this
structure. A possible contribution of LGN neurons to blindsight is predicated on 
two conditions: that the neurons that survive degeneration remain visually
responsive, and that their receptive fields continue to represent the region of
the visual field inside the scotoma. We tested these conditions in male and
female marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) with partial V1 lesions at three
developmental stages (early postnatal life, young adulthood, old age), followed
by long recovery periods. In all cases, recordings from the degenerated LGN
revealed neurons with well-formed receptive fields throughout the scotoma. The
responses were consistent and robust, and followed the expected eye dominance and
retinotopy observed in the normal LGN. The responses had short latencies and
preceded those of neurons recorded in the extrastriate middle temporal area.
These findings suggest that the pathway that links LGN neurons to the
extrastriate cortex is physiologically viable and can support residual vision in 
animals with V1 lesions incurred at various ages.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Patients 
with a lesion of the primary visual cortex (V1) can retain certain visually
mediated behaviors, particularly if the lesion occurs early in life. This
phenomenon ("blindsight") not only sheds light on the nature of consciousness,
but also has implications for studies of brain circuitry, development, and
plasticity. However, the pathways that mediate blindsight have been the subject
of debate. Recent studies suggest that projections from the LGN might be
critical, but this finding is puzzling given that the lesions causes severe cell 
death in the LGN. Here we demonstrate in monkeys that the surviving LGN neurons
retain a remarkable level of visual function and could therefore be the source of
the visual information that supports blindsight.

Copyright Â© 2018 the authors 0270-6474/18/383955-16$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0188-18.2018 
PMCID: PMC6705928
PMID: 29555856  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

