

715. Am J Primatol. 2018 Oct;80(10):e22750. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22750. Epub 2018 Mar 11.

Oxytocin regulates reunion affiliation with a pairmate following social
separation in marmosets.

Cavanaugh J(1), Mustoe A(1)(2), French JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.
(2)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska.

While separation from significant social partners produces a host of
neurobiological and behavioral perturbations, including behavioral distress and
increased glucocorticoid production, positive social interactions upon reunion
are critical for the reestablishment of normative relationship dynamics and the
attenuation of the biobehavioral stress response. The hormone oxytocin has
critical and pervasive roles in reproductive and behavioral processes across the 
lifespan, and plays a particularly prominent role in social bonding. In this
study, we examined the extent that oxytocin modulates interactions with a
pairmate following separation challenges that varied in both social context
(isolation; separation) and duration (long; short), in marmosets. We demonstrated
that the impact of pharmacological manipulations of the oxytocin system on the
expression of affiliation upon reunion depended on both the context and duration 
of the separation challenge. Specifically, marmosets treated with an oxytocin
antagonist spent less time in proximity with their pairmate upon reunion
following a long-separation challenge. During the short-separation challenge,
marmosets engaged in more social gaze when separated with an opposite-sex
stranger, but not when separated with their mate. Furthermore, marmosets that
received the most social gaze from opposite-sex strangers spent the most time in 
proximity with their long-term mate upon reunion. We also showed that marmosets
treated with an OT agonist received increased levels of gaze from opposite-sex
strangers, but not from their mate. Overall, these results suggest that marmosets
are sensitive to the nature of the social interactions during separation, and
subsequently alter their expression of affiliation upon reunion with their
long-term mate. These findings further implicate oxytocin as a bond-enhancing
molecule that regulates the reestablishment of normative levels of affiliation
with a mate following separation, and add to the emerging literature that
suggests the OT system underlies critical behavioral processes that contribute to
the preservation of long-lasting social bonds.

Â© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22750 
PMCID: PMC6133767
PMID: 29527695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

