

716. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2018 May;365(2):379-397. doi: 10.1124/jpet.117.247171. Epub
2018 Mar 9.

Predictive Value of Parkinsonian Primates in Pharmacologic Studies: A Comparison 
between the Macaque, Marmoset, and Squirrel Monkey.

Veyres N(1), Hamadjida A(1), Huot P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(N.V.),Montreal Neurological Institute (A.H.,P.H.), and Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery, McGill University (P.H.), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal
(N.V.),Montreal Neurological Institute (A.H.,P.H.), and Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery, McGill University (P.H.), Montreal, Quebec, Canada
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned primate is the
gold-standard animal model of Parkinson disease (PD) and has been used to assess 
the effectiveness of experimental drugs on dyskinesia, parkinsonism, and
psychosis. Three species have been used in most studies-the macaque, marmoset,
and squirrel monkey-the last much less so than the first two species; however,
the predictive value of each species at forecasting clinical efficacy, or lack
thereof, is poorly documented. Here, we have reviewed all the published
literature detailing pharmacologic studies that assessed the effects of
experimental drugs on dyskinesia, parkinsonism, and psychosis in each of these
species and have calculated their predictive value of success and failure at the 
clinical level. We found that, for dyskinesia, the macaque has a positive
predictive value of 87.5% and a false-positive rate of 38.1%, whereas the
marmoset has a positive predictive value of 76.9% and a false-positive rate of
15.6%. For parkinsonism, the macaque has a positive predictive value of 68.2% and
a false-positive rate of 44.4%, whereas the marmoset has a positive predictive
value of 86.9% and a false-positive rate of 41.7%. No drug that alleviates
psychosis in the clinic has shown efficacy at doing so in the macaque, whereas
the marmoset has 100% positive predictive value. The small number of studies
conducted in the squirrel monkey precluded us from calculating its predictive
efficacy. We hope our results will help in the design of pharmacologic
experiments and will facilitate the drug discovery and development process in PD.

Copyright © 2018 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/jpet.117.247171 
PMID: 29523699  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

