

72. Dev Neurobiol. 2021 Nov;81(8):905-938. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22850. Epub 2021 Oct 22.

Neuronal development in the cochlea of a nonhuman primate model, the common
marmoset.

Hosoya M(1), Fujioka M(1), Murayama AY(2)(3), Ozawa H(1), Okano H(2)(3), Ogawa
K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Center for Brain Science, RIKEN, 
Wako, Japan.

Precise cochlear neuronal development is vital to hearing ability. Understanding 
the developmental process of the spiral ganglion is useful for studying hearing
loss aimed at aging or regenerative therapy. Although interspecies differences
have been reported between rodents and humans, to date, most of our knowledge
about the development of cochlear neuronal development has been obtained from
rodent models because of the difficulty in using human fetal samples in this
field. In this study, we investigated cochlear neuronal development in a small
New World monkey species, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We examined
more than 25 genes involved in the neuronal development of the cochlea and
described the critical developmental steps of these neurons. We also revealed
similarities and differences between previously reported rodent models and this
primate animal model. Our results clarified that this animal model of cochlear
neuronal development is more similar to humans than rodents and is suitable as an
alternative for the analysis of human cochlear development. The time course
established in this report will be a useful tool for studying primate-specific
neuronal biology of the inner ear, which could eventually lead to new treatment
strategies for human hearing loss.

Â© 2021 The Authors. Developmental Neurobiology published by Wiley Periodicals
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22850 
PMID: 34545999 

