

720. Curr Biol. 2018 Mar 5;28(5):788-794.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2018.01.070. Epub 2018
Feb 22.

Precise Motor Control Enables Rapid Flexibility in Vocal Behavior of Marmoset
Monkeys.

Pomberger T(1), Risueno-Segovia C(1), Löschner J(2), Hage SR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076 Tübingen,
Germany; Graduate School of Neural & Behavioural Sciences - International Max
Planck Research School, University of Tübingen, Österberg-Str. 3, 72074 Tübingen,
Germany.
(2)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076 Tübingen,
Germany.
(3)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 25, 72076 Tübingen,
Germany. Electronic address: steffen.hage@uni-tuebingen.de.

Investigating the evolution of human speech is difficult and controversial
because human speech surpasses nonhuman primate vocal communication in scope and 
flexibility [1-3]. Monkey vocalizations have been assumed to be largely innate,
highly affective, and stereotyped for over 50 years [4, 5]. Recently, this
perception has dramatically changed. Current studies have revealed distinct
learning mechanisms during vocal development [6-8] and vocal flexibility,
allowing monkeys to cognitively control when [9, 10], where [11], and what to
vocalize [10, 12, 13]. However, specific call features (e.g., duration,
frequency) remain surprisingly robust and stable in adult monkeys, resulting in
rather stereotyped and discrete call patterns [14]. Additionally, monkeys seem to
be unable to modulate their acoustic call structure under reinforced conditions
beyond natural constraints [15, 16]. Behavioral experiments have shown that
monkeys can stop sequences of calls immediately after acoustic perturbation but
cannot interrupt ongoing vocalizations, suggesting that calls consist of single
impartible pulses [17, 18]. Using acoustic perturbation triggered by the vocal
behavior itself and quantitative measures of resulting vocal adjustments, we show
that marmoset monkeys are capable of producing calls with durations beyond the
natural boundaries of their repertoire by interrupting ongoing vocalizations
rapidly after perturbation onset. Our results indicate that marmosets are capable
of interrupting vocalizations only at periodic time points throughout calls,
further supported by the occurrence of periodically segmented phees. These ideas 
overturn decades-old concepts on primate vocal pattern generation, indicating
that vocalizations do not consist of one discrete call pattern but are built of
many sequentially uttered units, like human speech.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2018.01.070 
PMID: 29478857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

