

723. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2018 May;13(5):387-397. doi:
10.1080/17460441.2018.1443075. Epub 2018 Feb 25.

Merits and complexities of modeling multiple sclerosis in non-human primates:
implications for drug discovery.

't Hart BA(1)(2), Laman JD(2), Kap YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Immunobiology , Biomedical Primate Research Centre , Rijswijk 
, The Netherlands.
(2)b Department of Neuroscience , University of Groningen, University Medical
Center Groningen , Groningen , The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: The translation of scientific discoveries made in animal models
into effective treatments for patients often fails, indicating that currently
used disease models in preclinical research are insufficiently predictive for
clinical success. An often-used model in the preclinical research of autoimmune
neurological diseases, multiple sclerosis in particular, is experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Most EAE models are based on genetically
susceptible inbred/SPF mouse strains used at adolescent age (10-12 weeks), which 
lack exposure to genetic and microbial factors which shape the human immune
system. Areas covered: Herein, the authors ask whether an EAE model in adult
non-human primates from an outbred conventionally-housed colony could help bridge
the translational gap between rodent EAE models and MS patients. Particularly,
the authors discuss a novel and translationally relevant EAE model in common
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that shares remarkable pathological similarity
with MS. Expert opinion: The MS-like pathology in this model is caused by the
interaction of effector memory T cells with B cells infected with the
γ1-herpesvirus (CalHV3), both present in the pathogen-educated marmoset immune
repertoire. The authors postulate that depletion of only the small subset
(<0.05%) of CalHV3-infected B cells may be sufficient to limit chronic
inflammatory demyelination.

DOI: 10.1080/17460441.2018.1443075 
PMID: 29465302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

