

724. PLoS Biol. 2018 Feb 20;16(2):e2003933. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2003933.
eCollection 2018 Feb.

Vocal development through morphological computation.

Zhang YS(1)(2), Ghazanfar AA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey,
United States of America.
(2)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton,
New Jersey, United States of America.

Comment in
    PLoS Biol. 2018 Mar 22;16(3):e2005544.

The vocal behavior of infants changes dramatically during early life. Whether or 
not such a change results from the growth of the body during development-as
opposed to solely neural changes-has rarely been investigated. In this study of
vocal development in marmoset monkeys, we tested the putative causal relationship
between bodily growth and vocal development. During the first two months of life,
the spontaneous vocalizations of marmosets undergo (1) a gradual disappearance of
context-inappropriate call types and (2) an elongation in the duration of
context-appropriate contact calls. We hypothesized that both changes are the
natural consequences of lung growth and do not require any changes at the neural 
level. To test this idea, we first present a central pattern generator model of
marmoset vocal production to demonstrate that lung growth can affect the temporal
and oscillatory dynamics of neural circuits via sensory feedback from the lungs. 
Lung growth qualitatively shifted vocal behavior in the direction observed in
real marmoset monkey vocal development. We then empirically tested this
hypothesis by placing the marmoset infants in a helium-oxygen (heliox)
environment in which air is much lighter. This simulated a reversal in
development by decreasing the effort required to respire, thus increasing the
respiration rate (as though the lungs were smaller). The heliox manipulation
increased the proportions of inappropriate call types and decreased the duration 
of contact calls, consistent with a brief reversal of vocal development. These
results suggest that bodily growth alone can play a major role in shaping the
development of vocal behavior.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2003933 
PMCID: PMC5834215
PMID: 29462148  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

