

726. Neurol Res. 2018 Apr;40(4):303-311. doi: 10.1080/01616412.2018.1438226. Epub 2018
Feb 19.

Vocalization development in common marmosets for neurodegenerative translational 
modeling.

Jones CA(1)(2)(3)(4), Duffy MK(2), Hoffman SA(2), Schultz-Darken NJ(2), Braun
KM(2), Ciucci MR(1)(3)(4), Emborg ME(1)(2)(5).

Author information: 
(1)a Neuroscience Training Program, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison ,
WI , USA.
(2)b Wisconsin National Primate Research Center , University of Wisconsin-Madison
, Madison , WI , USA.
(3)c Communication Sciences & Disorders , University of Wisconsin-Madison ,
Madison , WI , USA.
(4)d Surgery - Division of Otolaryngology, Head & Neck Surgery , University of
Wisconsin-Madison , Madison , WI , USA.
(5)e Medical Physics , University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison , WI , USA.

Objectives In order to facilitate the study of vocalizations in emerging genetic 
common marmoset models of neurodegenerative disorders, we aimed to analyze
call-type changes across age in a translational research environment. We
hypothesized that acoustic parameters of vocalizations would change with age,
reflecting growth of the vocal apparatus and a maturation of control needed to
make adult-like calls. Methods Nineteen developing common marmosets were
longitudinally video- and audio-recorded between the ages of 1-149 days in a
naturalistic setting without any vocalization elicitation protocol. Vocalizations
were coded for call type (cry, tsik, trill, phee, and trill-phee) and analyzed
for duration (sec), minimum and maximum frequency (Hz), and bandwidth (Hz). Mixed
model linear regressions were performed to assess the effects of age on call
parameters listed above for each call type. Results Cries decreased in duration
(P = 0.038), maximum frequency (P = 0.047), and bandwidth (P = 0.023) with age.
Tsik calls decreased in duration (P = 0.002) and increased in minimum frequency
(P = 0.004) and maximum frequency (P = 0.005) with age. Trill calls increased in 
duration (P = 0.003), and trillphee bandwidth (P = 0.031) decreased with age.
Discussion Our results demonstrate that development of common marmoset
vocalizations is call type dependent and that changes in acoustic parameters can 
be detected without complex vocalization elicitation paradigms or specialized
audio recording equipment. Thus, we demonstrate the feasibility of a naturalistic
protocol to collect and objectively analyze marmoset vocalizations
longitudinally. This approach may be useful for studying vocal communication
deficits in genetic models of neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.2018.1438226 
PMCID: PMC6083835
PMID: 29457539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

