

734. Exp Anim. 2018 Jul 30;67(3):301-312. doi: 10.1538/expanim.17-0150. Epub 2018 Mar 
8.

Comparative immunity of antigen recognition, differentiation, and other
functional molecules: similarities and differences among common marmosets,
humans, and mice.

Kametani Y(1), Shiina T(1), Suzuki R(2), Sasaki E(3), Habu S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Life Sciences, Tokai University School of Medicine,
143 Shimokasuya, Isehara-shi, Kanagawa 259-1193, Japan.
(2)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Clinical Research Center
for Allergy and Rheumatology, Sagamihara National Hospital, National Hospital
Organization, 18-1 Sakuradai, Minami-ku, Sagamihara-shi, Kanagawa 252-0392,
Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals,3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku,
Kawasaki-shi, Kanagawa 210-0821, Japan.
(4)Department of Immunology, Juntendo University School of Medicine, 2-1-1 Hongo,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8421, Japan.

The common marmoset (CM; Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World monkey with a
high rate of pregnancy and is maintained in closed colonies as an experimental
animal species. Although CMs are used for immunological research, such as studies
of autoimmune disease and infectious disease, their immunological characteristics
are less defined than those of other nonhuman primates. We and others have
analyzed antigen recognition-related molecules, the development of hematopoietic 
stem cells (HSCs), and the molecules involved in the immune response. CMs
systemically express Caja-G, a major histocompatibility complex class I molecule,
and the ortholog of HLA-G, a suppressive nonclassical HLA class I molecule. HSCs 
express CD117, while CD34 is not essential for multipotency. CD117+ cells
developed into all hematopoietic cell lineages, but compared with human HSCs, B
cells did not extensively develop when HSCs were transplanted into an
immunodeficient mouse. Although autoimmune models have been successfully
established, sensitization of CMs with some bacteria induced a low protective
immunity. In CMs, B cells were observed in the periphery, but IgG levels were
very low compared with those in humans and mice. This evidence suggests that CM
immunity is partially suppressed systemically. Such immune regulation might
benefit pregnancy in CMs, which normally deliver dizygotic twins, the placentae
of which are fused and the immune cells of which are mixed. In this review, we
describe the CM immune system and discuss the possibility of using CMs as a model
of human immunity.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.17-0150 
PMCID: PMC6083031
PMID: 29415910  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

