

737. Zoo Biol. 2018 Mar;37(2):98-106. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21398. Epub 2018 Jan 31.

Identification of possible nutritional and stress risk factors in the development
of marmoset wasting syndrome.

Cabana F(1), Maguire R(2), Hsu CD(2), Plowman A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Wildlife Nutrition Centre, Wildlife Reserves Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Veterinary Department, Wildlife Reserves Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Paignton Zoo Environmental Park, Paignton, UK.

Marmoset wasting syndrome (MWS) describes a series of symptoms in callitrichids
that lead to general weakness and a failure to thrive in captive conditions such 
as zoological institutions. Though the cause of MWS has not been identified, the 
majority of hypotheses are linked to deficiencies of specific nutrients and
increased stress levels. Questionnaires were sent to zoos requesting information 
on diets and housing of currently living and dead callitrichids before their
deaths, as well as their postmortem reports. Risk factors for development and
occurrence of MWS include close proximity of predator enclosures and high levels 
of dietary magnesium and zinc. Variables with effects which may protect against
the development of MWS included provision of a nest box, natural trees within
enclosure, reduced visibility to visitors, as well as dietary factors such as
higher concentrations of potassium and fiber fractions. The protective effects of
limited concentrate feeds and increased total dietary fiber may help reduce the
risks of developing MWS. The minerals may not have biological implications in MWS
per se, however, they may be reflective of diets too high in concentrates and too
low in plant matter. Habitat designs that are less naturalistic and those which
provide insufficient privacy or hide areas may increase chronic stress for
callitrichid species, possibly because of visitor-related stress. Other causes of
chronic stress in captive zoo populations should be the topic of further research
to reduce occurrence of MWS.

Â© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21398 
PMID: 29385275  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

