

743. Chronobiol Int. 2018 May;35(5):658-672. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2018.1425883. Epub 
2018 Jan 26.

Mechanisms of social synchrony between circadian activity rhythms in cohabiting
marmosets.

Bessa ZCM(1), Melo PR(1), Gonçalves BSB(1)(2), Azevedo CVM(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratório de Cronobiologia, Departamento de Fisiologia , Universidade
Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal/RN , Brazil.
(2)b Escola de Artes, Ciências e Humanidades , Universidade de São Paulo , São
Paulo/SP , Brazil.

In marmosets, social synchrony between circadian profiles of activity is stronger
in animals that cohabit in a family. The activity of three breeding pairs was
recorded by actiwatches to investigate the mechanisms involved in the synchrony
between the circadian activity profiles during cohabitation in marmoset
reproductive pairs. The dyads were submitted to LD 12:12 (21 days) and LL: 1)
cohabitation (24 days), 2) removal of the cage mate (20 days), 3) reintroduction 
of the mate into the cage of the 1st situation (30 days) and 4) removal of the
cage mate (7 days). Next, they were rejoined and maintained in LD 12:12
(11 days). In conditions involving cohabitation of pair, the general and maximum 
correlation indexes between circadian profiles were higher in cage mates compared
to animals of the same or different sex with which they maintain only acoustic
and olfactive contact. This strong synchrony between rhythms was accompanied by a
stable phase relationship at the activity onset and offset, with identical
circadian periods between mates. When the pairs were separated, there was a break
in stability in the phase relationships between activity profiles with different 
circadian periods and a greater phase angle difference between rhythms of cage
mates. During separation, two females and one male progressively anticipated the 
activity onset and offset in a phase similar to that in previous conditions,
expressing entrainment to the mate. During the first reintroduction, two pairs
exhibited signs of masking in rhythm. Although modulation in the rhythm of some
animals has been observed through acoustic cues from animals outside the colony, 
we suggest that cohabitation favors strong synchrony between the circadian
activity profiles of marmoset reproductive pairs involving synchronization by
entrainment and masking. Further studies in the absence of external social cues
are necessary to clarify the role of these mechanisms on social synchronization
in marmosets.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2018.1425883 
PMID: 29372816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

