

744. Phytother Res. 2018 Apr;32(4):678-687. doi: 10.1002/ptr.6017. Epub 2018 Jan 24.

The effect of Banisteriopsis caapi (B. caapi) on the motor deficits in the
MPTP-treated common marmoset model of Parkinson's disease.

Fisher R(1), Lincoln L(1), Jackson MJ(1), Abbate V(1), Jenner P(1), Hider R(1),
Lees A(2), Rose S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Diseases Research Group, School of Cancer and Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Faculty of Life Science and Medicine, King's College London, London,
SE1 1UL.
(2)Reta Lila Weston Institute, University College London, London, WC1N 1PG, UK.

Banisteriopsis caapi (B. caapi) contains harmine, harmaline, and
tetrahydroharmine, has monoamine oxidase inhibitory activity, and has reported
antiparkinsonian activity in humans when imbibed as a tea; however, its effects
are poorly documented. For this reason, motor function was assessed in
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated common marmosets following
administration of B. caapi extract (28.4-113.6 mg/kg; po), harmine (0.1 and
0.3 mg/kg; sc), and selegiline (10 mg/kg; sc), alone or with a submaximal dose of
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA; 4-7 mg/kg). L-DOPA reversed motor
disability, increased locomotor activity, and induced moderate dyskinesia.
B. caapi did not increase locomotor activity or induce dyskinesia but at 56.8 and
113.6 mg/kg improved motor disability. The L-DOPA response was unaltered by
co-administration of B. caapi. Harmine (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) produced a mild
improvement in motor disability without affecting locomotor activity or
dyskinesia but had no effect on the L-DOPA-induced antiparkinsonian response.
Selegiline (10 mg/kg) alone improved motor function to the same extent as L-DOPA,
but with only mild dyskinesia, and did not alter the response to L-DOPA, although
dyskinesia was reduced. The findings suggest that B. caapi alone has a mild
antiparkinsonian effect but does not enhance the L-DOPA response or reduce
dyskinesia.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors Phytotherapy Research Published by John Wiley & Sons
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ptr.6017 
PMID: 29368409  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

